Episode: 17
Title: HPR0017: Torrentflux
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0017/hpr0017.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 10:19:20

---

Music
Welcome to another episode of HPR, I'm your host Enigma, and today I will be talking
about Torrent Flux. Torrent Flux is a multi-user GUI for BitTornado. It has a PHP front end
and a MySQL back end. It can manage all downloads in a central location to make life easy
to your and not have a your favorite Torrent application of choice on your desktop. It's centralized.
You can stick it on a server somewhere and not really worry about having it suck your resources
on your local machine. Multiple users can upload files at the same time. It can search
sites from the GUI with some plugins for your favorite Torrent search engine of choice.
And you could have some possible automation to the process, which I'll talk about later.
Your requirements, a Linux box installed and working. It's been tested on Debian Red Hat
Fedora. Personally, I use mine on SNOS, which is Red Hat Enterprise, an Apache web server.
PHP Apache module version 4.1 or higher with a MySQL database server, and it also supports
other ODBC databases. Python 2.2 or higher. SC Linux should be turned off or configured
to allow Torrent Flux to work with files in a specific application path. And Safe Mode
must be turned off in the PHP.Anyfile Torrent Flux reads writes files that Safe Mode would
restrict. And basically, it's an easy install. You go to the website and untar the archive.
You want to download. You create the database in MySQL. And that has, or read me, that basically
will walk you through the process of creating the database. You build the Torrent Flux tables
by running a SQL script that's provided in the tar archive. And then you want to edit
your config.php for the database settings on that particular box. You want to browse
to the site that you have. You have to have Apache running. Browse to your local post.
And set up the password and other directory info. And you must either turn off or put
in Allow Mode SC Linux. Basically, you can upload or search from Torrents on the main
screen of the Torrent Flux website. It will auto-seed the Torrent after completion, but
that can be turned off. You can select files out of Torrents if you only want to download
a specific file from that Torrent. It also has a history feature where you can basically
keep track of all the Torrents you've downloaded. It has a nice GUI interface that tells you
how much disk space you have left on the specific drive. It's got multi-user management
with disk quotas, so you can have a user set up where you can only use 10% of your disk
space or whatever you wanted to do with that. It's very easy to use interface and customisable.
You can auto-ft. You can have customization scripts within the tool that you can auto-ftp
the Torrent once it's finished to another location via of a script. It's got an RSS feed
built in with new Torrents, and that's about it for today. Thanks to all the hosts that
have helped out with HPR so far, we haven't missed a day yet, and I'd like to keep that
going. If you'd like to contribute to HPR, please email me at admin at hackerpublicradio.org
or if you have feedback on any of the shows, please email feedback at hackerpublicradio.org
and have a nice day.
