Episode: 54
Title: HPR0054: This Old Hack Part 6
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0054/hpr0054.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 10:49:32

---

Bye!
Extreme Will Pump Hacking!
Just don't break anything.
Get ready for another exciting edition of this old hack.
Well, I'm back at it again.
Fucking around with that old well house of mine.
And I'm really super geeking at tonight.
I'm like last year when I went to work on the well.
It was hot as hell tonight, it's rather chilly.
And it's probably a good 50 degrees cooler than it was when I worked on it in the middle of summer.
But needless to say, this is a good time to go back over and touch on some of the points that I might not have exactly been quite clear about originally.
Talk about a couple other things.
Just getting my stuff set up here.
Tools.
Beer.
Everything I'm going to need.
Got my headlamp on.
Cause I'll talk about the headlamps first.
Now this is the cheapest and probably my opinion the worst type of headlamp you could have because it's first of all it's not an LED headlamp.
It's a single incandescent bulb.
So it's bulkier.
It sits kind of far out.
So it wobbles a whole lot.
Now with the newer a little bit more expensive LED lights.
They're brighter and they don't take as big of batteries and of course they last a whole lot longer than the incandescent bulbs.
And the ones they sell at Walmart are okay but I had this one really nice headlamp one time.
I found it in the woods camping.
And it was made by black diamond.
The thing that was nice about it and I've never seen any of the regular retail stores carry this particular model.
The thing about it that made it nice was the battery pack was in the back of the headband.
Cause the headlamp you know it's an elastic band and it was a light on the front.
Well the black diamond unit the batteries were in the back.
So the weight was evenly distributed and the light panel was really slender and you could fold it down and you could probably conceal it under like a toboggan hat.
You're like a thick winter hat.
It was slim enough to wear. You could probably hide it.
It was very comfortable and you didn't ever have to worry about breaking your head and losing the position of the light.
Somebody found it from me in Northern California.
So right now I'm doing as I'm trying to find some thread tape.
And I didn't ask my wife to pick any up which she would store.
It's kind of funny what happened the other day the power in the kid's room just went out just a kid's room.
Obviously I checked the breakers and that wasn't the problem.
There's just no power.
Well yesterday after the power being off for a couple of days and just mysteriously came back on.
Or like okay everything is good.
Well today while I was at work the power went out again and this time the power through the well went out.
Well my life came out here to just to mess with the well pump switch which I touched on in a previous episode.
Episode five.
And if you tap it with a stick and after it's been turned off it'll cause it to come back on.
And I've had some couple of requests to be more clear about the nature of the well pump pressure switch.
So I'm going to go into that too.
Thank you for listening to HACRA Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net so head on over to C-A-R-O dot N-E-T for all of us here.
Thank you.
