Episode: 587
Title: HPR0587: HPR Community News
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0587/hpr0587.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 23:35:46

---

Hello everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and this is some community news from Hacker Public Radio.
My name is Ken Fallon and this is the first community news show.
As you know Hacker Public Radio is a podcast network that is for the community and by the community.
But one thing I also know is that podcast listeners tend not to go and visit websites or read show notes.
So what I've decided to do is record a show possibly once a month where we give a quick review of what's going on inside and around the community so that we can communicate with community tools and trademark.
First of all, let's go through some of the episodes that have been released this month.
There was a bit of a black plug, but we went the first episode was released on the sixth and it was an interview with Mako by Tlatu.
Personally, I was very interested in this episode because among other things that we're talking about, the sign language tutor application that she is developing in Kitty,
which I sent downloaded and my wife is into sign language and we've recorded the video of the alphabet and stuff in Little Anza, Habaratal, in Dutch sign language so that we can contribute back to this project.
Unfortunately, with all the stuff that's been going on, I have another chance to upload it, but hopefully at the end of the next week we'll be able to get something open that project.
Then we had a series of shows that had been stagnant there for a while from the selfish freedom day in Dundee, still as relevant as ever.
One of the first ones being free and open source on Windows, and that was given by Robert McWilliam, very interesting shows all.
We had an interview with Hedenex then, one of the OLF 2009 series.
Absolutely brilliant, I was riveted, really have a bit of a man crush for Hedenex and RF Quirn.
I have also recorded a HPR episode on their show.
I don't know if there's got much content, then we'll see what it goes.
Then we had a recentication of a little bit of Python, and we had another interview with...
We had another software freedom day, talked by Nick Walker, open source security concepts, very interesting.
Interview with Jeff and Lofty to South 2010, volunteers.
We had the hacker public radio panel from Ohio Linux since 2010.
This was deliberately moved up to Q because I felt it was important that we get the news out about HPR what it is, so that you listeners get more involved in the community.
Then we had the open source games and community, software freedom day, Dundee presentation again, that had been.
Then I bumped up the key, the talk to you geeked to me episode where they interviewed me, which was intended, also bumped up the key and it was intended to give you an idea of what's going on in HPR.
A little bit of background to what's been happening, a little bit about the slowdown and what we're doing to improve HPR and get things rolling again.
This is, of course, episode 3 of that, starting with the radio hacker public radio panel at Ohio Linux Fest.
The talk to you geeked to me interview and this hopefully will give you bring up to date as to what's going on and hopefully where we're going.
Then we had Alan Hicks interview by tattoo again and I really could listen to this guide talk all day and one of the times I really, really wish I had airfare to go over to South and listen to these talks.
Then we had another in the, of our syndicated shows, a little bit of Python, global interpreter lock.
I must say some of the stuff dig over my head, but it's still interesting listening.
We have the first in a new neckcast, which has been released syndicated over to HPR and that's the QSK Devils in the digital podcast where K5 talks.
Let us reuse some of his shows.
Now, as I probably mentioned a lot of times, we had the talk geek to me episode where I was talking to deep geek about an email that I sent around to the HPR mailing list and that mailing list details about that can be found on the HPR website itself.
What I want to do is just read, read you out my summary of what I wanted to see happening with HPR.
So I'll be quoting bits of extracts from that and then give you an update on what I'm doing about all of those.
So, email. First it was great to hear all of positive feedback and that was in relation to the fact that I asked questions HPR did.
So let's concentrate on making HPR stream along. One of the things I enjoy most about the feed is getting a new show every day.
I know Aaron suggested dumping several shows at once, but I believe that the one show a day every day builds trust and retains listeners.
I'm not again sending multiple shows down at one time, but I do like the bargain of tune in tomorrow for something completely different.
First thing first, let's get the shows flowing again.
Now, that's what we did start of the month around about the 15th of the month.
I started posting shows and well, let's go on.
I'd also like to echo Aaron's offer to assist inigma and I think the time zone difference can make a difference around the clock coverage.
So, put my money where my mouth is, I email stankdog and inigma and volunteer to help.
There has been some problems getting unblocked by the firewall, which is very zealous.
And I know that these problems have been plagued in platoon, who is another admin.
And yeah, there are still some things that I need to get access to, most notably the common spam system.
But for the most part, I have enough access to be able to get in and do what we need to do.
So a typical day posting shows, if you're in case you're interested, the site is a typical lamp set up Linux Apache MySQL PHP.
And there's a small database on the content management system, which I think troops put together.
If everything is okay, a host like you uploads a show to the FTP site together with a text file that describes what's going on.
It's put in the queue.
And the order which I've come up with has been, first of all, I'm going to give priority to any shows that have been recorded specifically for the HPR network.
And you're not going to really make any apologies about that.
People have taken their time out of their day to record a HPL show.
So let's get on the HPR network as quickly as possible.
And they will be released on the first come first serve basis.
If somebody else is released a show before me, their show gets out first.
Unless, of course, there is one caveat.
What I want to do is be able to release critical shows where we need to get news out or that somebody has decided to do a series of shows to promote an event or something.
And I know that Aaron has looking to do a week of shows on a particular episode, combinating in a four-inch interview type thing on the last day of the week, which I think is fantastic.
Absolutely no problem with that. We'll block a period of time to allow that sort of thing to happen.
But for the most part, it's first and first out priority given to HPR shows.
And then syndicated shows after that will be given priority on their first and first out.
However, as I don't want to be dumping down all the Dundee shows one after the other, I kind of wanted to mix it up a little bit.
For the most part, that's generally what's going to happen.
Moving back to the male list again, I would also like to assist with the automating process of posting shows as much as possible.
And I say this without having any knowledge of the underlying system, bloody, bloody, blah.
So what I normally do, work or wherever I'm trying to automate the system, is I live with the pain of whoever it is that is.
Just checking to see if I was recording this. I'm living with the pain of whatever somebody's doing.
So if somebody making an Excel macro or something, do it yourself for a few times and you really know what it's like to do their job
on where you can invest as much time as possible in helping things out.
Well, I have been living with the pain for a while and the pain is as follows. First of all, we don't have enough shows.
Short and simple, if we don't get shows, then there is nothing to play out except possibly syndicated shows.
And I don't know about you, but there are plenty of syndicated show networks out there.
So I would prefer the idea of hacker public radio was for the community by the community we're going to release shows.
Everybody takes a small amount of time out of their month records the show and pulls it into the story.
So let's get that done.
Then the next pin point is no metadata with the shows.
So people upload the show and it's just called something. So you have to listen to it and create the metadata first.
And there are no ID tags in that order. So no shows, no metadata, no ID tags. And believe me, there is the most important one there is that there's no shows.
So what I've done is on the FTP site, which you will get access to if you just send me an email as Admin at hacker public radio.org.
If it's your first time or if you've gotten what it was, just drop me an email and I'll usually get back to you.
It's copied to me and also a NIGMA. So if I don't get back to you, NIGMA will depending on the time zone.
So in the FTP location, I've updated a readme file, which I'll be updating all the time.
So could you please, if for the regular host, if you are uploading every month, can you have a quick look in there to see what we're doing, any news or whatever will be posted in that readme file as it changes.
So I'll read you out that readme file right now.
Hi, host. Thank you for producing a show for the hacker public radio and network to make life easier for us.
Well, when posting the shows, could you please upload a text file with your show and add ID3 tags to the MP3 file?
I don't know if you have time, if you don't have time, that's fine as well.
And let me just stress this, without pinpoints as an order of magnitude less, if I don't have shows, I have nothing to work with.
So if you just have enough time to throw up a show without just a file name, try and make the file name as described as possible, and then I'll do the rest. Don't worry about it.
But it might, other shows might jump yours in the queue because if somebody's got a show ready, then that's going to go out. So, you know, fairs fair.
Okay, the ID track information, if you could have it as the title, being the title of your show, the album being the string hacker space public space radio.
The artist being your name or handle, the genre being podcast and the comment.
The first line of it being HGB, colon, forest, forest, hacker public radio dot org, and then you can put in whatever show notes you want after that.
And the reason for that is that the ID1 tag only allows strings of that size, so it'll truncate it over to that.
Now, about the show notes, to make life easier for us, when you're posting, could you please upload a text file with your show?
We will use this information to fill out the website, the text file should follow the following format, which will also change from month to month because if we can get this text file down, then I can put up a web page that will fill out this stuff.
And I can put in scripts that can parse these files and you can make life enough, a lot easier right down to the point where we can validate that everything looks okay.
And then we can put them into a queue once they go in there, they will be posted on a particular schedule.
Okay, so the text file should have the same name as you show with the TXT extension.
The first line should contain your name or handle, if you have released the show before, then it should be exactly the same as the one that's on the correspondence page in the hacker public radio.
The second line should contain the title of your show, and the third line should be blank, if it's not a series, or it should be the series name exactly as it is on hacker public radio.
And the remaining text may be whatever you like and it can also include HTML markup, don't go overboard and JavaScript and all that stuff, I will check everything.
If you're not already on the mailing list, you can join up by going to hgp.com.forstache-forstache-hacka-public-radio.org forward slash mailman-forstache-listinfo hacker-hpr-hacka-public-radio.org and a link to that is in the contripe section.
Okay, back to the email. The next topic I covered was communication. We needed place to communicate with the admins, other correspondence of the community at large.
We have a mailing list and I go on. But long and short of it is I'm updating the hacker-public-radio-contribute page and adding stuff there.
At the moment I've got, let me see, contribute, get a section on hosts, whether you want to do a sign-up show or whatever, just email admins at hacker-public-radio.org.
A lot of the podcasters hanging out on the IRC, if you're an IRC, at the hash-ugcast-planet on the free node network.
We also have an identity on Twitter and I'll get into some of the other stuff as well, just in a minute.
So the calendar also went into a bit about what I wanted to do with the calendar, which I think is nice to have.
It's a bit early now until we see how many hosts come out of the woodwork.
And the most important one is building up stack of episodes.
It would probably be a good idea to have a pool of spare episodes that go out when there's nothing else available or when someone gets to post.
These might be narrated by Lynn or Danny speak, which is, I have a script to do that.
Or there might be a shot of hack type shows, which are five-minute shows. To encourage contribution, there should be an area dedicated to showing people how to record a show.
And if anyone would like to do that, that would be fantastic, even if it's just links out to a good website or a YouTube video or something.
And I'd like it to be going on, starting at the press recording your Sansa level, up to editing in Audacity.
If there are links on our sites in tutorial, let's use them but have at least have the information in one place.
It might be a good place to have listeners where listeners can suggest a topic for the show where an expert in the field can record a quick show if they like.
Or if you're simply devoid of inspiration, you can do a show like that.
So that is basically what I'd also like to do. I don't know exactly how I would do that.
Or if anybody has got ideas on how to do that sort of thing, give me a shout, go on the mailing list.
Actually, if you're listening to this, please join the mailing list.
And yes, you don't start helping out.
It doesn't have to be recording a show necessarily, but a lot of this stuff, you know, you might have an idea that somebody else wouldn't have.
For example, if you have been thinking of doing a show and you don't know what to do a show about, one of the nicest series that I've come across was
how you got into Linux, which is a simple one. Just pick up your recorder and record how you got into Linux, if you're into Linux, or how you got into computers in general, how you got into podcasting.
I know Dave did a series on what's in your bag.
And I know a lot of people now have Android phones and tablets and stuff.
So why not send in your top 10 favorite Android apps or your top 10 applications in general or your top 10 stuff?
You know, it doesn't have to be how to debug the latest Linux kernel.
It can be just a nice light topic, five minutes, boom, we're done.
Okay, back to the manifesto, I guess, about feeds.
I know we agreed to do this before, but the number came to pass, but we should offer a log for this feed.
I also have a script that can convert audio to speaks, so a feed for that would be cool as well.
Given the CC license, we could automatically cross-post to archive that org, increasing our exposure.
I'm planning for my scripting series, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
About that, I've went ahead and downloaded all the MP3 files, and I'm in the process of converting them to org,
because I want to see how much disk space it's going to take, and whether that sort of a jump is something that we want to put on the server.
We want to put on the server being this server is paid for by Stank.
I know they advertisement.
At the end of the show goes quite a bit of a way to paying for the server calls, but at the end of the day, it's still Stank.org server.
He's paying for it, it's coming out of his pocket, and I don't want to be taking more resources than have been allocated to us.
So just to let you know that that is something I'm still thinking about, and we will address it in the future.
I'll go back to the thing, spreading the word.
One of the most serious emissions from the current size is the lack of who we are and what we do page to explain what HPR is and what we're about.
So I went back to Episode 1 and had a listen to it, and then I updated the main page to read as follows.
Hacker Public Radio is a podcast that releases shows every weekday and Monday through Friday.
Our shows are produced by the community and can be on any topic that are of interest to hackers.
I've also went ahead and updated the about page with some more fleshed out information.
There was also a topic, I don't want to really go into it too much, but about the promotion material.
And I asked Senator Request for some promo material and Slick Zero come back with two promos promoting HPR.
There is this one.
Hello world, this is Slick Zero, and I wanted to talk to you a little bit about Hacker Public Radio.
You've listened to it enough, I'm sure you'll love the shows, but what makes it different from other podcasts?
It's produced by the community.
That's right, people just like you.
There's no restrictions on how long the show could be, nor on the topic you could cover as long as there are of interest to hackers.
It's so easy to contribute to, just go to hackerpublicradio.org and click on contribute.
All the information you need is right there.
And then there's the other version, which is this one.
Hello world, this is Slick Zero, and I wanted to talk to you a little bit about Hacker Public Radio.
You've listened to it enough, I'm sure you'll love the shows, but what makes it different from other podcasts?
It's produced by the community.
That's right, people just like you.
There's no restrictions on how long the show could be, nor on the topic you could cover as long as there are of interest to hackers.
It's so easy to contribute to, just go to hackerpublicradio.org and click on contribute.
All the information you need is right there.
He also did an embedded image, which I'll put into the album art of this file, but if you can also see it on the website.
I can't find out who did the SVG, who did the logo, the HPR microphone logo.
So if anybody knows who did that, could they drop me a line and see if we can get an editable version of that because it's kind of cool.
Going on, needless to say, we need to get publicity by spreading the word on micro-bucking sites through groups and on social networking sites.
Now Aaron has offered to tell about this, but it turns out we actually have a Twitter feed.
I have no idea how it's been fed or whatever.
If anyone has information on that, you can also please email it to me.
But that feed is automatically updated when ever shows posted, so that's kind of cool.
We also have a HPR group on Identica.
So if you have something of relevance to HPR, you can use the exclamation mark HPR.
And if we'll go to everybody on that group, and if you're not a member of that group, please sign up because I tend to post a little bit about the shows manually over there as well.
So we also have, that's pretty much the email.
Just to give some feedback, feedback can be found as feedback and any show.
There's a special email address, feedback at HackerPublicRadio.org, which again comes to myself on the link, but the intention there is that we would forward that on to whoever was on the particular show, rather than giving everybody's email out.
So if you could include that in your show, if you're recording, that would be nice.
And now some comments from the website.
Nice boots, writes in to say that they're UGG1798Averseos, barely buttons.
Then we have a null code 25 from gmail.com, writes in to say that there's five minutes membership site, at scribe.doc402964, blah, blah, blah.
And if you want to get the best finance, you can go to bestfinance-blog.com and barber write from mail 15, writes in about that.
Interesting feedback on hydrogen peroxide teeth whitening by Ray Schneilsk on gmail.com.
The website is perfectly white teeth.info, such a great nice blog. Very nice of you to say that, although technically it's a blog, not a blog.
Oh, Java is my favorite application in my phone, writes Dianne Danny at Yahoo.com.
Going something about...
And more information.
Thank you for listening to Acrobatics.com.
You can also see our information by arrow.net.
We've got co-head on over there.
We see also that many of you are all of the people.
Best finance, blog.com.
Different people know how to get a personal job.
That's our answer.
More information.
Thank you very much.
