Episode: 153
Title: HPR0153: What is an algorithm
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0153/hpr0153.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 12:28:21

---

music
Music
Welcome to Hacker Public Radio. My name is Silver and today I would like to give a brief explanation on what an algorithm is.
I don't really have a whole lot of time today, so please don't expect an index to talk in algorithms all in one podcast.
At the end of this episode, I have provided a review question that can be answered on your own or you can always leave a comment on the HPR website.
My main goal is to provide a better understanding of what an algorithm is.
An algorithm is a method for solving a class of problems. This term applies to any method of solving a particular type of problem.
Wikipedia defines this term as a sequence of instructions often used for calculation and data processing.
A recipe and a cookbook could also be called an algorithm.
Directions from Google Map can also be called an algorithm from getting from one place to another.
Computer software is a very complicated algorithm.
In architectural drafting, you may be surprised to know that every staircase must be custom designed to fit the circumstances of total elevation in horizontal length, or in other words, total rise and total run.
Use your favorite search engine to find many different algorithms or methods for designing a staircase.
An algorithm is simply a way to solve any type of problem. In computer science, an algorithm is essential for anything to work.
Also, a good algorithm can be used over and over again.
Well, that's pretty much it, guys.
Now, here is that review question I told you about.
Remember, you can always leave a comment explaining your answer or you can simply write it down on paper.
Write an algorithm for your morning routine from the time the alarm clock was raised until you leave the house for school or work.
If you're like me and don't have a job, then try creating an algorithm on how to write a resume.
There are no right or wrong answers, just something to think about.
Part two of the series, I'll try to explain Pasudo code.
If you have any questions, just leave a comment on the HPR website and I'll try my best to answer them in the second part of the series.
Also, there are references to recommended reading listed on the website.
Until then, thank you for listening.
HackerPublicRadio.org
Thank you for listening to HackerPublic Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over to C-A-R-O-DOT-18 for all of us here.
