Episode: 486
Title: HPR0486: HPR Round Table 6
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0486/hpr0486.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 21:35:58

---

Hi everyone, this is Clot 2 and this is Dean. I think this is technically the 60th official hacker, we're not hacker public radio around table, although this just lost to the lack of talk to recording or not recording it.
We've actually switched over to a cool little site called Talk.CitorialProject.org, which is brought to us by the Cidora Project.
That was my co-hosts from Cidora. I might as well introduce them.
I do, I'm here to screw it from Cidora. We've got big flux from Demo or Bust.
Oh, hi.
And we have, of course, DeepGeech from Talk.CitorialProject.com.
Hey, what's up guys?
So DeepGeech, this is actually your idea. If you did, I'm talking to me today.
Planned 9 from Out of Space.
Thank you. Planned 9 from Out of Space Review, which was quite funny. It was a really funny review because of the fine 3 seconds.
The idea of doing one for Forbidden Planned, which in my humble opinion is not just a fine movie, really cool movie.
And I guess everyone here has seen it now, correct?
Yeah.
Yeah, I watched it maybe a couple weeks ago to be honest, sitting in the back.
Cool.
Great. What did everyone think about Forbidden?
Actually, DeepGeech, do you know a little bit of history of the movie? Can you give us a little bit of background on it?
Well, as far as the history is going, I'm not sure I'm the best historian in the world, but it was 1950s.
The 1950s, right?
Yeah.
And it stores Leslie Nielsen, and actually a serious role.
Right.
And it's...
1956, I believe.
1956.
And Francis, as the leading woman, and actually Leslie Nielsen makes a really good leading man.
And it's got the first appearance of the infamous Robbie the Robot.
And it's just so well done.
I mean, I can't believe I can watch a 1956 movie here in 2009, and still think that this thing just seems so up to date.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
I mean, you know, it's just...
It's still...
Yeah, it feels like it was made yesterday.
Well, maybe not yesterday.
It feels like it was made maybe five years ago or something like that.
Yeah.
It's just...
I mean, just the scenery and everything in it is just amazing.
And it seems to break all the rules, and then you begin seeing things that, you know, like the original Star Trek stole from them.
And there's all this boring that went along.
And then, of course, you know, the main prop, Robbie the Robot, went on the head, his own career in film.
Which is pretty good for something that's not even human.
And...
What else would he have ever used that he made like a guest appearance on Lost in Space, right?
But he wasn't the Robot in Lost in Space.
No, that's right.
And he keeps getting confused with the Robot in Lost in Space.
And basically, the Lost in Space when I looked into it, because I actually had an argument with a Trekkie over dinner with about this.
And I actually had it dive into the internet and proved my point.
And...
Very classy, my new.
And the Robot from Lost in Space was actually designed by the same guy.
But it was a less expensive design than Robbie.
And it's actually the name of it is B9, which...
I was just amazed the other day, because I was just listening to a podcast called Cult Cat Admiral's Table.
And they were interviewing George Rob, who does a geologic podcast, and he was talking about the Star Trek movies.
And found out that that his backup copy was B4.
And so I caught the reference right away.
I didn't think they'd caught it.
You know, B9 actually had to be cheaper because they actually had to have a stunt double.
And he couldn't use legs because Robbie the Robot almost fell over and cracked in half while filming Forbidden Planet.
So it was just too expensive for the time.
It's interesting that you say this is the design of the same guy.
I don't know.
Like, would it stand to argue that a lot of the 1950s robot stereotypes possibly comes from one guy?
Well, it's interesting that their build has similarities, because Robbie's known for his two different twirling ears.
And B9 had that, although they were glass encased, and they both had the kind of chest area that flashed with neon lights every time they made a syllable.
And they both had arms that were disjointed in some way.
And then it ends with Robbie having this boldest shaped thing for legs, and B9 not having legs.
And you know, what's the other thing?
I mean, the similarity also is the fact that they both have the torso of washing machines.
Because the guy who designed them was a washing machine engineer.
So they have that big tubular shape about them.
So...
Yeah, I mean, I don't know.
I think you're...
I think it's across the point that it seems like a lot of the sort of stereotypes from those 1950s, 60s movies,
that some sort of robots would look like kind of stem from that, or perhaps some other notion from which Robbie the robot also stems.
But yeah, there's definitely similarities there, I think.
Didn't you go to like a robot exhibition at a museum or something?
Yeah, I did, but it wasn't really all that cool, because everything was trying to XP and stuff.
It wasn't as cool as I said it was hoped for, but yeah, they displayed the original Robbie robot statue and something.
Yeah, so it was kind of fun.
And the gorge, of course, was the gorge statue.
But that's different to me.
Well, Gorge wasn't really a separate problem.
Was he glad to?
Gorge was a costume.
He wasn't really...
That's correct, yeah.
I was kind of disappointed, kind of getting maybe a bit away from the robots and a little bit more into the plot of the movie,
that was a name...
What's your name?
Opera, I believe?
Yeah, Opera.
What's your name?
I like Opera.
Yeah.
Okay, so I watched this movie when I was a kid, right?
I remember being bored as hell, and not watching it.
It is like the first time I've actually watched it and paid attention to the plot.
And it's kind of disappointed that the...
I thought that she was the source of all this stuff.
Oh, it's funny.
Yeah, I thought that would be like a twist that would come up, and it turned out it wasn't.
I definitely had...
I remember thinking the same thing.
I thought it was probably...
Yeah, I thought it was possibly one of these.
You know, I thought the robot or the girl, you know, I just...
Because the guy was so protective of Altera, so I kind of thought it was interesting.
And the robot was just such a potential threat throughout the whole thing.
Yeah, but eventually the robot...
Eventually, Robbie gets...
...alibied by the ship's...
...the ship's...
...chef, doesn't he?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, talking about the plot now,
the plot, from what I understand, is stolen right out of Shakespeare.
Oh, really?
Everything, isn't everything?
Let me call it.
Yeah.
I mean, the guy wrote, like, all the common themes, though.
But, yeah, I get...
I mean, I've never read...
I have for you which play they say it's Rick Dothra.
I think it's like the 12th night or something.
Yeah, it's a play that involves a guy who's punished, so he's...
...intentionally shipwrecked on a planet with his daughter,
and everyone ignores him for, like, decades, and they come into him and find out
he's got all this stuff going on, and, you know, so it's that.
I guess it's a cheap shot to rip off William Shakespeare, huh?
Yeah, I think it's a broad statement to say that this...
...that something is like Shakespeare's play, you know what I'm saying?
But what the pigeon has that mad scientist kind of...
...suppressed evil thing down, doesn't he?
It does, if you did it well, that's for sure.
I mean, before this movie, my experience with Walter Pigeon was...
...in Harry and your pocket, have you guys ever heard of this movie?
No.
Oh, this was a weird 60s kind of romanticizing crime movie about a...
...band of pickpockets traveling across Vancouver, Canada.
And, Walter Pigeon is, like, the eldest and teaching them all how to...
...expertly rip up people off and they're...
...hitting up dog shows and stuff.
It's got James Copern in it, it's really good.
So that's where I knew him from them, like, whoa, he did sci-fi, too.
Yeah, well, I just think the whole idea of being able to put, like,
...like, unlimited energy behind your thoughts is, like, the most amazing idea...
...like right there.
Yeah, that's a good point.
I never really thought about it, but that is what...
...that's what's going on, obviously, and that's...
That's kind of a unique idea, I don't know if it's that.
It's the only time I've ever seen it in a movie.
It's amazing.
And I've seen that movie just before, like, I don't remember when.
And then, I didn't even remember that.
And then when I watched it for a week, I was like, oh my gosh, I tried to fix that.
For 1950s.
Yeah.
Well, I...
Glad to.
Well, you got to remember to put in a spoiler alert in the beginning of this thing when you...
...begin chopping it up, you know?
Yeah, that's a good point.
But, I mean, I'm amazed at how they led up to it, because they were...
...they led up to it so slowly.
I mean, first, it's like, come, have a look at their technology.
And he goes to this weird shaped door and says he didn't know what they looked like.
They only have the shape of this door to guess.
And then, you know, they begin doing things with this brain meter.
And then he shows them the power plant.
And they begin wondering why they have this...
...heavies huge, submerged, nuclear power fusion things going on under the planet.
And then, you know, all of a sudden you find out that they're going to, you know, impose their will
by shooting the machine, was going to create things out there.
And it was just the lead-up was so amazing.
And one of the math paintings was like a power plant, too, wasn't it?
Yeah, that was a beautiful stuff.
That was incredible.
Oh, yeah, me, too.
That's one of the things that really sticks in my mind when I ever I think of that movie,
is that one shot where they're crossing that bridge over to, I think, the brain meter part of the station.
And you just see this... I mean, you just see this thing reaching deep into the planet,
just generating all this power.
That was really cool.
Yeah, and they're talking about it's like 75,000 floors or something.
Six miles wide, as it dimensions.
And looking at these math paintings, and you see these dwarfed little people talking about this,
and you're like, it looks that way, too.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, another visual thing that really impressed me, I'm a fan of Japanese anime.
I don't know if any of you guys are.
But the scene where the monster is first shot at with laser beams,
and it's an animated special effect.
That scene is just, it is not cell animation.
It is, they did some weird thing with double exposed negatives,
that they animated hand drawings, and then they colored it, and you know,
you just have this thing that's outline of this invisible being,
that's rearing, and roaring, and throwing people around,
and you just see this outline in just the tracers of the laser beams.
It's just amazing.
I don't know exactly what technique they use that they perhaps drew onto the negatives
for something light, or something like that.
But what do you think they used exactly for that deep geek?
Well, I understand they did ink and pen drawings, and they photographed them framed by frame.
And then there was the negatives of that, so they could color it.
So I mean, you know, that's the funny thing about this movie,
so it looks so visually stunning, and you know somehow they aren't using CGI,
they're using all these pre-CGI techniques like animation and special photography.
And it still looks good, it still looks futuristic.
Yeah, that blew me away when I saw the visuals.
I mean, I just thought, I don't understand, I was just made in the 50s,
but it looks so not only like technically, you know, proficient,
but also just so stunning in terms of what they were trying to achieve,
but they were really kind of being visually daring.
I don't know if any other science fiction film before that,
but tried to really imagine the fantastic stuff that they were trying to achieve,
other things to make them a trouble.
What were the other movies that were around during this time?
I think I went on the IMDB, and I was trying to figure out how to search for genre and date,
and I couldn't figure it out, but I know these Frankenstein.
Wasn't that like 1959 or 1960 or something like that?
Do we know if any other sci-fi movies around this time?
That's it, what did the one you got your handle from come out?
I should know that off the top of my head.
Day-the-earth stood still.
Yeah, I have no idea.
Wasn't that, I think I'm picking 51 off the top of my head.
You could be right, I think 54, I think 54.
And that was cool, but I mean, again, just nowhere near in terms of like,
daring visuals, I don't think, like with this house.
Well, we've been talking about visuals for some time,
but I mean, I'm thinking about the first part,
the first thing I saw that really just surprised me,
the thing that said, I said, ooh, that's different.
So, I mean, you guys, what do you guys think?
What was the first scene in this movie that you said?
That's not like other science fiction movies.
Well, for myself, the kind of watching the two-thirds of it
where the plot begins to reveal itself, I think the plot itself is very new
as far as concepts are concerned, like this planet that has machines
that makes things based on what you think.
That seems to me like a very modern concept,
and not necessarily something that was prevalent in movies in the 50s.
And then a lot of that sort of communist undertone
that was very prevalent in all those films back then, you know,
they just seem to really step outside of the planet Earth
and just do something completely foreign.
And there weren't any big, lesser tonuses.
So, look how bad the Russians are, or like look at the Germans
except on another planet.
You know, it was completely separate in this scene.
Yeah, it's just like this is a human being.
What if this was possible?
Yeah, I think so.
What really amazed me initially, the first three...
I mean, to give you three things that really sting at my mind.
I mean, maybe there were further exploration.
The first thing was nearly every science fiction movie I've ever seen in my life.
They all have a corny and signet on their breasts.
And their uniforms did not in this movie,
which I really appreciate after this many science fiction movies.
The second thing that really stood out was when they're jumping down from hyperspace,
they go into almost this thing that you could tell they stole the star truck transporter from.
Where they're all standing on these little pads, this beam comes down and covers them
to keep them safe while they decelerate.
Oh my goodness, is this the first transporter?
It wasn't a transporter, it was like something to keep the body from falling up against the wall or something.
Yeah.
And the third thing I noticed was that for a change,
we're the ones coming out of the UFO, the flying saucer.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I noticed that myself too.
I don't know, how popular do you think it was for?
I got the impression that a flying saucer,
it was a bit more popular back before.
So in the 50s and 60s, this whole UFO setting thing was new.
I think that was a lot more prevalent in movies.
Well, the UFO signing thing was never new.
And that's like saying, podcasting is new,
but people have always passed around weird recordings of themselves talking.
And so you can't really say it's new and...
Okay, how about...
Inline?
No, I'm sorry, all right, go ahead.
Well, you could find, I mean, I'm not going to get into all UFO biology,
because I probably bore you guys to death.
But if you listen to anything about UFOs
and you say instead of flying saucer and grays,
you replaced balls of light and angels.
The statement still makes sense.
So there's something that happens somewhere in the 20th century
where the space theme comes into it.
And we're no longer talking like in Bible symbols.
We're now talking in space symbols.
So I mean, the idea of space aliens and stuff just never was new.
Or flying saucers was new.
So like an assignment for something that's already happening,
or has always happened to people in different states.
Okay.
Specifically us as an alien.
I mean, us as aliens, us as humans.
Or you mean just the concept of eight people in flying saucers?
Yeah, I'm saying the concept of people coming from flying saucers.
Like we were talking a little bit about lost in space
and the ship that they use.
The Jupiter, right?
Yeah, Jupiter is something like that.
There's a bloody flying saucer.
A lot of it seems to me like a lot of these vehicles
in movies of that time, or flying saucers.
The funny thing is the sense of scale at different movies.
It's like the one I made fun of planning from out of space.
You can tell the flying sources are like hand puppets or something.
And then you compare, you know, you think about where
they the Earth should still did a really good job
was when the flying saucer lands on the Maul in Washington DC.
And if you've ever been to the Maul in Washington DC,
you know there's no baseball fields.
But they've actually put four baseball fields to show this thing covering.
So you know it's big, you know.
And it's something they don't really do.
I mean you have some like vehicles rolling around underneath this thing
and for a bit, but it's not the same, you know.
The scales are all weird in different movies is what I'm saying.
I'd like to talk about the role of woman in this movie.
I was about to age, I'm sick.
All right, we'll talk to you about women.
Well, no, cause they make references to Robbie and female context that are interesting.
All right.
The way he was like, he was, I mean, he was a housekeeper.
Yeah, I mean, I hate to sound sexist, but it began.
It was very obvious to me in the beginning when Robbie pulls up and introduces himself.
And then, you know, the cook says, is it a guy or woman?
And Robbie says, that's meaningless for me, sir.
But then he says, strap in guys and, you know,
and again to the car to go back to the base.
And the one guy says, well, it sure acts like a mother.
And then Robbie is doing housekeeping later on.
I picked up the sexist vibe from my 2009 perspective.
Right, well, yeah, given the perspective,
it's my interior that they're making it.
I would imagine so, yeah.
Yeah, and...
Kind of caught me off guard, to be honest with you,
and they asked, uh, but gender, Robbie was like,
I wasn't even thinking that.
Why would they do it?
I can't grow bad.
Well, it's even weird because, I mean, and I love,
I love a genre of science fiction called Cyberpunk.
And the first big novel is Neuromancer.
And Neuromancer involves these two artificial intelligence
as a cyberspace, and one is pursuing each other
and trying to complete each other.
And so, one takes on this, one takes on the role of pursuer,
which eventually realizes a male aspect.
And the other takes on this passive and yet creative aspect.
You know, and this thing rolls together toward the end of Neuromancer,
you know, as the plot resolves and you realize that,
you know, hey, have I ever read a science fiction movie
where two programs had gender relations?
I don't think so.
You know, so, I mean, you know, I think maybe I was well prepared somehow
to pick up on this stuff.
One, do you think that this sort of...
One, do you think that in genderment of these genderless things,
of robots and different programs started?
Before Cyberpunk, do you think this existed before Cyberpunk?
Well, I think this is maybe one of the first few ones we've ever seen
with Robbie, you know, having these housekeeper
and these traditional fifties, wife of the aspects to him.
I don't remember anything before in any other science fiction I've ever seen.
What about you guys?
Back in the 20s,
I find movies that feature, you know,
very famous female robot Maria.
What was the name of that one?
Metropolis.
Metropolis!
I just want to see that.
Finding a good transfer of that movie is really hard.
I'm very picky about my old, you know,
transfers a lot of people don't realize
that the old movies are growing, you know,
so they didn't have the same sound.
They were almost like 18 frames per second.
And yet people always transferred that something higher, like 24,
so it looks sped up,
something negative at all.
You know, that just looks really bad.
I mean, they're old, they're going to look bad,
but I mean, in terms of quality, but still.
So, finding a good copy is really hard,
but you can certainly find the troubles
if you haven't seen it before.
Thank you.
To be honest with you, I haven't.
But, no, that was in the 1920s.
This robot, I think, was very feminized,
as far as what was perceived as being feminized.
You know what I mean?
Like a sheet for the robot is almost sexy.
You know what I mean?
Like a-
That's almost sexy?
I'm the checklist.
Oh, yes, yes.
The physique you must be referring to is
etched into the minds of film lovers everywhere, I think.
Yeah, yeah.
You know who must have been the most strong female cyborg figure
has to come from Japanese anime.
Major Kusunagi.
Hmm, who is this?
This was the female comedy in the partnership between her character
and the character Batu and Ghost in the Shell.
And that's also very, very interesting because, you know,
the creature that comes out of the internet gives her the speech about.
We have to get selection going.
We have to be one, baby.
You know, he really comes on to her in a strong way at the end of that movie.
It's really amazing.
Yeah, and Ghost in the Shell, but I mean the character,
I mean, it's very hard to imagine because the cyborgs look so human,
except for that they move stiff.
And it's hard to remember that.
The only thing biological left in this Major Kusunagi character is
maybe a few pounds of brain matter and everything else is, you know,
25th century robotics.
Do you think it's, I may interrupt you,
do you think it's more common for this character in Ghost in the Shell
is a girl.
And Robby the robot is feminized.
At least that's what the characters say.
And do you think it's common that robots in these inanimate things tend to
be girls more than boys?
Or do you think it's 50-50?
As far as science fiction in general goes?
Yes, science fiction.
No, I think it's even.
I mean, if we look at the almost exclusively male robots of like the Star Wars,
at least the first Star Wars movie they made,
and then I think in other Star Wars movies they had robot soldiers all over the place.
And I don't think you could call those feminized characters.
Okay.
Well, these three heroes often didn't accuse us of being, you know,
homosexual or erotic or something.
See, three heroes is the first homerorotic robot?
I've never heard that.
I've never heard that.
I honestly was trying to pretend he was some kind of butler, actually.
How is well, how is well, how is well?
You've got to have to put it quite a significant point, you know.
How the murderous computer in the spaceship is feminine?
You've not heard this.
I'm like, look, someone needs to do like a piece of paper on, you know, ginger roll robotics.
It's by five movies.
But, yeah, so that is...
Yeah, well, you know, I guess because, I mean, I guess because how is, yeah,
they're basically inside of Hal, right?
And he's taking care of their physical needs.
Does that kind of embryo relationship isn't there?
And they're asleep.
I mean, some of them are literally in cryo-states or whatever stuff.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, we better stop before we talk about how killing the sleeping ones is being some kind of symbolic.
I mean, I won't be afraid to sentence your old guy already.
But the one thing that got me about back to the actual copy of the answer for this planet
and like the quote-unquote ginger rolls or whatever, is that the...
There's that kind of pursuit thing going on, you know.
It's like one guy from the crew had the hots for the girl and then the captain had the hots for the girl.
Oh, I disagree.
That little disagree, you know, that sort of a...
What is it? That's like a playful banter between, you know.
And again, there's that whole sort of like...
It's just kind of a big question.
I don't know, it's probably realistic, but it just destroys my name.
Well...
Yeah, it annoys me too.
I'm asking Francis, is this...
I do not like...
Yeah.
Why? Why does it annoys me?
Well, I will say, date women, right?
So, like, there's a lot of...
There's a lot of straights,
romantic subplotting movies, and it's just played out so often,
and it's so stereotypical, and it's done over and over again,
and pretty much every movie that it just annoys me.
And why does it have to be that way?
I mean, I'm sure that it's great for the guy and his pursuit of girls, some of that.
Like I said, it's probably very realistic,
but doesn't have to be always that assumption,
that these guys are going to go after this girl and make up with that.
Yeah.
So, that male-dominated pursuit of romance,
although...
Yeah, you're...
That's because I kind of like steeper itself.
Yeah.
Like if it isn't happening, well, then look, it's happening.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
That's a really good point.
But it is funny, because Altera has sort of that kind of inexperienced
brashness that really throws them through a loop, right?
I mean, she'll say things like, what?
I was just trying to...
You know, I was just having a little fun with kissing, you know, stuff like that,
which I'm sure in the 50s was just...
What if we...
I don't like it.
What if we're writing the newspaper and freaking it out?
Yeah.
You know, I can just imagine people just saying, you know, I can't believe she would just...
Just these people just so...
You know, and she was swimming naked, and that wanted to be,
and she had a body suit on for the filming, of course.
But I mean, you know, the suggested, I think,
at least for that time period, she always tends to be off as well.
Well, Altera is character-played by Anne-Frank.
So I think she did a really good job...
Did a great job.
...at pulling off this uber-virtual character.
I mean, I should hope so, because I would think that for the time period we're discussing,
I would think the potentiality of the audience is being able to handle
a concept such as incest, since there's only one male and female on that planet
before this spaceship shows up, would be so outweighed anything else
that they would have to have Altera be uber-in-experience,
since there could be only one source of experience for her if she wasn't uber-in-experience.
What do you guys think?
I got a lost track of all the experience.
Yeah, I lost track of it.
I was too rambling horrible.
I just got this, but I think what you're saying is that she doesn't have any real world experience.
So she just knows that it's probably her response.
I go with a woman and then get together, you know.
But to her, it's almost like a breeding plant or something.
There's none of that sort of cultural kind of like imposed,
being ritual, being machito, so which comes out too strong to one of the guys
or something, it really upsets their ability.
Since these humans are on another planet, it turns them into an alien race
without any experience.
Like there are biological images that they're acting completely foreign
and different to everybody.
How so?
Well, I mean, it was trans and like no reference at all.
No way to make her an alien race.
There's no society to affect her.
So her mind is all over the planet.
Interesting.
Do you suppose that Altera was generated by these machines
because of Morbys' idea for pretty think that Altera is an actual biological human?
I don't know if they made reference to this or not.
Well, actually, this is very interesting because I never thought of this possibility
because he actually says that she is the daughter of her
and another travel from the original ship.
But why, since they have this technology that takes thought and creates things out of it,
why can't he have some kind of fantasy of a wife on this first ship coming over
and have the actual technology create Altera?
It's actually possible.
I think they kind of alluded to maybe when he was, when Morbys is in the room with the brain meter
as much as he could put it.
And he puts on this device, right?
And there's a little hologram.
All right.
I think you throw up a fan site for the movie on some geocities or something.
Geocities is closed as of Monday.
Yeah, geocities is gone, dude.
All of that website looks like the random pop cultural icons.
Oh, there's some interesting things.
So, actually, have you guys heard about Jason Scott?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
He's coming up, I'm doing a demo of our boss.
I recorded an interview with him.
I'm doing three people in this one episode, so I haven't put it together.
Jason Scott, I mean, I follow his blog and he actually got laid off a couple of months ago from his day job.
And he finally, he went on his blog and said, look, I want to take a sabbatical.
So, I saw this thing on Kickstarter, and if you want to fund pick a pledge to my sabbatical,
and if it comes off, I'll do it.
I'll just sit down to compute a history and research for three months straight and finish my documentary.
Get lamp, and I was like, well, yeah, you know, I ran right in there and pledged right away.
That's pretty cool.
I mean, I probably sound really blushing of me, but I mean, you know,
like I told you guys before, at least before we saw recording,
that I have this real anti-corporate streak, and you know, the idea of actually someone
will be his patrons just being regular people, just really got stuck in my crew,
and I was like, oh, yeah, the only other thing I was a patron of before was my library, you know?
Well, not having McDonald's sponsoring against that all throughout his next documentary,
so it won't be like McDonald's cuts, you know, prominently featured in all the shots.
You know, like, you're so plain as you think, completely enthusiastic here with me.
Just a little bit.
So I have a paper, some makers who do products, please.
Well, you know, we spent so much time on female gender issues,
and I don't think I was as sensitive, perhaps as I should have been.
Are there any male gender issues we have to look at?
I think we've already discussed them.
I mean, the whole thing about the pursuit, you know, the whole competing male thinks about me,
and then there's the issue as well for, at least for me,
is that whole structure of the whole, it's a given structure of,
there's this captain of many of these commanders,
and there's the punishment if you do anything wrong, like, you know, drink or something.
You know, I mean, it's just like so militaristic.
I don't know if that's necessarily a male issue or a military issue,
but it seems fairly masculine to me, too.
It's just kind of like, I don't know.
We're in the future now, do we have to necessarily bring all that stuff with us?
I mean, it's such a good job of imagining everything else,
maybe differently.
But there are certain things that they just couldn't quite be revolutionary about, I guess.
Well, I guess it's been like five years,
I think it's been more or more two years,
so that's making sure that they're ahead.
Yeah.
That seems pretty cool, I'll talk about it.
It's granted, but I mean, that didn't,
that whole militaristic mindset that started with World War II,
was almost a combination that worked for two.
You know, this, that mindset has been around for the long time,
so it only seems like it might have been more daring.
I mean, the fact that I can complain about this,
the whole thing just shows how great the movie is,
but I mean, the whole thing is to try to reinvent.
Maybe that was one of the biggest try.
It was cool.
Interesting to see, you know, I don't think it might work.
I don't know, it's a little less authority.
I don't think it's a macho thing as much as it's, you know,
I mean, if you made a real scientific,
I mean, you know, talk about universe creation
and if you, I think that if you create a universe
that is truly incredibly radical,
I mean, that people would not be able to even comprehend the movie
if there was just no point to reference.
I think perhaps for a society in the 50s,
maybe the military stuff was the reference they left there
to build a framework for everything else.
Yeah, I mean, I get that.
That you do have a little bit of stuff that we can latch on to
in order for the mere audience to understand what's going on.
But how was it taken in the,
do you guys know how this movie was originally taken
from a 1950s audience?
I always thought it was pretty popular.
I mean, it certainly was based on the directness of this.
That was a really popular show.
And I guess if you're popular enough,
especially a spin-off,
you'll be doing well.
Well, in Robbie the Robot,
did you come up with, like,
things with Star Robbie Robot?
I think that's what people do that to,
or is it so he was an actor?
One thing I heard of,
Steven Spielberg was being interviewed about this someplace.
And he was talking about how it was common for employees at the time
to have a fancy, after this scene,
this movie about having a robot as a protector.
And, you know, like you said,
Clat 2, that seems to certainly be taken over
by Will Robinson and B9
later in the Lost in Space series.
Yeah, yeah.
One of the things that always really,
really interested me was with the soundtrack.
Oh, yeah, that's that spacey whoo-hoo-hoo-hoo.
Very good impression.
Oh, Clat 2.
I thought I was,
I thought we were watching those movies.
I thought we were watching those movies.
I know.
Yeah, that's all.
It's not even a starement.
It's like just,
you electronically choose to get a tone.
I don't know exactly what they used.
But you can hear stuff sort of around that
trying to feel from, like, Pauline Robo-Pierro's
experimental artists from around the same time.
And this was Luis and Bidde,
Beryl, and they did,
apparently, this is the first, you know,
all electronic score.
And I just love it,
because it's half the time you're hearing it,
and you're like,
well, is this score that I'm hearing or is this the
sound effect?
It's amazing, because it sounds like
they got some people to do these sound effects
with these oscilloscope stuff.
And then they said,
you know what, that's fire the band.
Yeah, really.
It's like they liked it so much they fired the band.
Because you never hear a regular instrument in the whole movie.
You just hear the sound effects,
and you just hear the word squeals.
And yet it is musical.
It's the tonality.
I mean, is it melodic?
It's some part I think it's almost melodic.
You know, I think there was this really good
experimental band that was very much inspired
by the soundtrack of this very movie.
I think they were called, let's see.
Hold on.
Let me just check my computer.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, it was that chance.
Lester, wasn't it?
Yeah.
That's very funny.
Um.
Yeah.
I have to watch this again.
I didn't even take notice of the soundtrack.
So like I said, you probably just thought it was literally
in your place.
It's not a sound track.
It's like a...
It's not even a sound skate.
It's something...
It's a tonal impression of the future.
I mean, that is bizarre.
Yeah.
It's affecting your mind.
Yes.
So how did you guys...
How did you guys watch this movie?
Did you download it with good times?
Did you find it on YouTube?
Um.
Man, like Clintu, how did you find this movie?
Or watch it, rather?
I was born knowing about this movie.
I remember when I first saw it.
It's one of those that I've seen.
I mean, you want me to just start voting all the lines from the beginning.
No, no, no, no.
Like, no.
How did you watch it now for this episode?
I know.
I didn't have to watch it again.
I didn't have to watch it again.
Did you have it?
Oh, I see your thing.
I do have a rip too hard.
I mean, it was...
What kind?
Well, I can't, of course, it kind of oddly accidental.
When I did plan line from out of space, which looked geek to me.
I, you know, the idea of a series is to have a bunch of bad sci-fi movies reviewed.
And I think I got to get a copy of teens from out of space next for that one.
But so I began...
I remembered something...
It's like a cheap rip off of MST3K.
So, but that was like...
I remember there was some movie that had Robbie the robot dancing to a Lawrence Wilkesk bubble machine.
And I began looking for that.
And I came, of course, actually this very good movie.
And I began...
You know, when I...
I...
I will...
Clat Tuesday go to guy for sci-fi.
And I went to him and I said, well, let's do an eye.
Because look at all these weird themes I got.
I pulled out of this and I can't do this alone.
And then we went back and forth a few times and we said, well,
we can't do this as a pair.
And we have to make a round table out of this, right?
As far as actually getting the physical copy,
I used the best kept secret in America.
My library caught.
Ah!
Yeah, it's perfect for old sci-fi movies.
Holy crap.
Yeah, that's great.
And you say I'm not a library.
Yeah, really.
I was so disappointed.
I went to Mininova and I searched for this movie.
I found a torrent.
And I hadn't downloaded anything from the torrents in maybe four months or so.
And I turned on my ice feed and I was walking it.
Oh, oh, oh.
And I had to find it on YouTube, piece by piece.
Come on, let's see your name.
Who's your ISP?
Ah, Comcast.
Ooh, his Comcast.
I hate Comcast so much.
Yeah, totally.
That's huge in the movie most recently.
I watched it on my laptop.
I didn't.
I thought I put it on FGP for you.
I got it from a library.
Oh.
She does a library trick.
I don't want it in a really good quality.
Hey, hey, squirrel, what did you hear about?
Because you said high quality.
We were talking about Jason Scott's next documentary.
Did you hear that DVD quality wasn't good enough for him?
Yeah, he's like, DVD is not good enough.
And I don't want to pay these blue wave fees.
And he's actually considering releasing it on USB Drive.
He says the eight gigabytes he has to do whatever he wants
without paying for licensing fees on a DVD.
I don't know.
USB Drive is beats DVD.
And he does that.
Yeah.
He wouldn't be the first to do that.
I mean, there was a director who released a feature film group
to iPoddle back in 2005 or 2006.
Yeah, but I have M-play, which I'm sure will play whatever form
that that thing came out.
And I just can't find the download.
It's an intake for it.
Yeah, I don't know why it's not downloadable.
It's probably our screw balls don't have their website up.
So, did you, when you were originally pitching the idea of talking about
for good planning, you mentioned something about God?
There's the concept of God as the uncreated creator
or the primal move that they call it, sometimes philosophy.
So, I mean, morbias' foot projections can be viewed as playing God,
but also playing God as a phrase, as a sarcasm to it
about being kingship and making dictatorial decisions,
which he tries to do when he says things like,
no, I will not release their technology to the human species
because they aren't ready for it and they'll blow each other up.
But I mean, it sure as heck fits with the whole mechanism behind the machine
that projects his thoughts from his subconscious
and creates them into a real monster running around killing people,
not just from the spaceship you're looking at,
but historically from the spaceship,
the original characters came from that the rescue ship is now countering.
So, yeah.
Well, what about the sort of classic moral story that, you know,
his man's words, everything that he wants,
he's usually the real one,
because the guy is getting basically anything he can think of I got,
and it's like, what did he say?
Like, if he did, that's what I have to do,
if he's the evil self that's the door
and I can't stop this or something like that,
he looks like his dad's thoughts are kind of doing it then.
That's out of that.
Yeah.
We all have this animal, this aggressive animal, from our survival instincts,
left over, you know, underneath our, the part of our brain that does this
responsible for just pure, cranking up pure, rational thoughts.
This is a survival thing that can certainly kick in at any time and
usually when you have big violent actions in between individuals that's what
happened is something triggered that and the response is either I got to get
out of here or I got to kill something that's in here with me.
So, I mean, but with Morpheus, it's more of a protecting his family thing that triggers it,
where he's got to keep a terror, you know, away from going back to the earth and then his subconscious
thing projects this monster that's trying to kill a spaceship which is an obvious
transportation mechanism that could take her away from him.
Yeah, but you can draw from extension from that, but if Morpheus has this fantasy family,
he might as well protect that as well as any other family.
If it's created as a subconscious urge and Morpheus that if he doesn't acknowledge to himself that
Altara might be his own creation, then he would know that he wasn't protecting a
figment of his imagination made real. He would protect it as if it were.
I think he lied to them about her origin and he just selfishly protected
a little perfect world that he's treated himself.
But when that perfect world still includes a spouse instead of a daughter?
Yeah, well, you think so, and that I'm not the whole Freudian that we don't deserve
into, right?
Yeah, I think so.
I like to ask the movies that ask questions like, I mean, is Morpheus right?
Is wanting to protect humanity from that power?
I mean, choice humanity can't be lived or not, like.
And when we enter the movie, we find Morpheus discovering this race that
blew their brains out on some technology.
And there's your answer right there, but Morpheus is blind, but
is that he doesn't realize that he is caught up in the process of having his world destroyed,
but the self-same technology, I think, no?
I agree, you, but you say to that that maybe Morpheus is lying and he's aware of what he's doing.
He seems pretty surprised when he, well, I can confront him by a minute.
He really does, especially when he tells his robot that he created mechanically,
you know, gives him the conflicting order to destroy that thing out there.
And the robot knows, you know, you just ask him to destroy you and shorts out.
No, no, it's because he can still be aware of him wanting to protect his own little
perfect bubble and still be blindsided by the fact that he's caught up in, you know,
he's like addicted to a reality that's just due to fail.
Well, do you guys think we have enough for a wrap on this episode?
Yeah, I think so.
Thank you for listening to Half the Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over to C-A-R-O dot N-E-C for all of us in the
