Episode: 1
Title: HPR0001: Introduction to HPR
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0001/hpr0001.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 09:58:56

---

next episode!
Hello there, everybody, and welcome to Binary Revolution Radio Episode No. 201, I am
Thank you very, very, very, wait. It's not in my radio. We use it that round, it's 200.
This isn't 201? No, no, no. What are we?
Hacker Public Radio. What is it? What's Hacker Public Radio?
Not sure, remember, you know, you and boom, talking about it way back in the day, and we decided to do this
Hacker Radio thing and combine it and make Hacker Public Radio.
Oh, yes, now I remember. Actually, yes, we are doing episode one of Hacker Public Radio, and the other voice you heard is that of our good friend, Enigma.
Yes, yes, thank you.
And we are going to do Hacker Episode One, and this is going to be an overview of exactly what is Hacker Public Radio joking aside.
This is the debut episode of a new show, and we're going to tell you all about what the show is about, how it came about,
what the future is and the plans we have for the show, and hopefully answer any questions we might have so that we can get a lot of participation
and a lot of great content for what we hope will be a very long running show.
Now...
The community-related show that we also love with the topic is now going to be Hacker Public Radio because I taste my topic name.
Not true. Actually, it goes back a little bit further than that.
The name HPR, or the idea that HPR Hacker Public Radio actually stems back from the old RFA days, Radio Freak America.
When Duel and I, Duel was going to be wrapping up Radio Freak America.
The Revolution Radio was just starting or had just started, and Duel was going to take a little time off.
And hopefully he and I had the idea of coming back with another show called HPR Hacker Public Radio, which was going to be a little bit more of a serious show.
And actually what I had originally envisioned for the show was it was going to be more of a roundtable group discussion show.
And that may actually happen, but we'll come back that later.
What I envisioned for Hacker Public Radio was more of a crossfire style show with one mediator and people from opposing sides
discussing different topics like high-resue, good, or bad.
And we try to get some representatives who supported one view and people who supported a different view and have kind of an actual intelligent conversation and debate about the topic.
We wanted to do something a little bit more serious.
We have a lot of fun on the shows that we've done from Ben Rav to RFA to TWA Tech and all that.
But we wanted to try to get something a little bit more serious and a little bit more mainstream as far as the overall feel of the show.
Now we're still going to have fun, don't get me wrong.
But that's what the original idea was.
And we wanted it to be more community-based and so far as we would have a bunch of different guests on it,
it wasn't always going to be about the host.
If anything, the host was just a mediator and it was always the guests, the community, that were providing the content.
Well, that was the original idea, but it kind of spun a little bit from there when dual-ended radio-freech America.
And we were full into radio, full into binary revolution radio.
It was actually the guys over at Infonomicon Groups, Enigma, who started a show called TWA Tech.
And why don't you talk a little bit about that show?
Because I know Drubes has said that us mentioning HPR on RFA is what kind of motivated him.
And that was his idea for TWA Tech all along.
Was it community-based show?
And the only reason he didn't call it HPR then is because he thought we were going to be coming out with it soon.
So he went with TWA Tech.
Well, originally Goss Man and Drubes started this show called TWA Tech Radio.
And it was a joke of the name. It was based off of TWA Tech.
I forget the acronym.
The acronym is for TWA Tech.
I'll find it while you speak again.
This week in Tech, that's it.
I think it was, yeah, this week in Tech.
So we called it today with a Techie sort of topic for short.
And I wasn't around at this time.
I'm a lecturer.
Another intern, a non-con member, was a admin for that site for about a year.
For he had real rights come up, like I would let's do.
And decided to step back and I took it over.
And it's been a really community-based radio.
We have a ton of different hosts.
It's very in-content.
My clip shows and everyone wants to know why I mix it up with a old, yeah,
I've done video and RFA, I've done, I did it with Jason Scott.
That's how I'm presentation.
So I've done pretty much, did you dam it?
I want to do, I want to get back to the platform.
That's what you did with the telephonic lab lecturer.
I want to do things like that.
I do clip shows.
And I also do, you know, serious content of a lot of the mix that we want for a lot.
Well, and that's actually a good point.
The one of the things that's great about HBR,
and I always enjoyed this listener of Tawtech was the fact that we don't really have set topics
so far as we don't have a limit on no politics, or no this, or no that,
or only talk about hacking, or only emphasize freaking.
We're actually pretty open-minded on these shows,
and we want people to contact us with anything hacking-related.
And what I mean by hacking-related, it's very loosely defined.
There's going to be a lot of episodes about Linux,
because it's very near and dear to the hearts of hackers everywhere.
So there's going to be a lot of shows that are just Linux-centric.
There are going to be a lot of shows that talk about hacking.
There's going to be a lot of shows that talk about different programming concepts and techniques.
But there's also going to be the occasional show.
Like I always enjoyed some of the shows that were done about actually survival.
I thought those were some great shows.
There was a show about caffeine one time, which I thought was interesting.
That's something that, you know, you got to admit is certainly in the hacking community,
and an interest in the hacking community.
So all those type of things.
Anything that's even loosely related.
We're even looking ahead to some music-based shows, some hacker-centric music, if you will.
Lots of different topics and ideas of what we can do for the show.
So if you're listening and you're thinking about, you know, what to expect for the show,
well, expect the unexpected.
And you might be surprised.
If you are listening to this, you might actually have some good ideas,
contact us, and let us know.
So you might actually have some ideas that would fit in really well with the rotation.
So let us know if there's a topic that you want to discuss or want someone else to discuss.
Right.
We've had shows about, we've had the music shows.
I believe not quicker.
And there was another one I can't remember off.
I thought my head is back in the archive.
That was just somebody playing music.
Yeah.
And it was, you know, hacker-related.
I believe doctors are used different tones.
And there was a show about Esplanade II, I want to say.
Like the language that's active from the back of the universe.
It's very interesting, not necessarily acting topic, but.
And I believe Plexi did some one-on-chat box and AI.
And we moved from the gambit with the topic.
So I expect more of that with hacker public radio.
Yeah. A lot of variety.
A lot of variety is what we're hoping for.
And as a listener, that's something that I always like.
So the more variety, the better.
So kind of keep in mind.
There might be some stuff.
Basically anything, it doesn't have to be hacking-related or about hacking.
It just has to be something that may be of interest to hackers.
Something that a hacker would enjoy listening to.
Even gaming.
A lot of hackers are into gaming.
Anime.
Stuff like that.
Maybe anime movie reviews.
I know there's a lot of people out there listening that say,
oh, I don't know much about hacking.
I can't contribute.
Well, I know a lot of you watch a lot of anime movies.
That kind of stuff I would find interesting, you know,
reviews of maybe some of the technologically themed or technologically themed anime movies
that are out there or shows and things like that.
Recaps.
Movie reviews.
Anything like that that's all the interest to hackers is perfectly acceptable as a topic.
So we don't want to put limits or caps on it.
Your imagination, whatever you can come up with, just contact us.
And actually, that's probably the next thing we should talk about is,
how do they contact us?
Enigma, how do they contact you, myself, or any other stuff?
If they wanted A, well, actually we have a couple of ways for them to contact us.
Why don't you explain?
Well, you can email us directly.
You have Stankblogger.
Stankblog.com.
I have my ETNH0 and enigma.gmail.com.
Well, you can go the hacker public radio route.
And there's an admin and hacker public radio.
And a feedback and hacker public radio.
Now, the difference is, admin is this, like, I have a sure idea
and I want to run it by one of us.
Then I would throw it to the admin at the hacker public radio.
If I had some type of feedback or question or comment about one of the specific shows,
I would email the feedback at hacker public radio.
And then myself or you or droops would throw that along to the specific host for that day.
Yeah, so if you had comments or feedback on a particular topic,
what we'll do is try to put that, we'll pour that on to the appropriate person.
Maybe they can do a follow-up episode later on in clarify.
The thing about this show is because it has so many hosts mixed in,
it's kind of hard to do email each episode and follow up,
like we've always done with BenRef Radio and other shows,
because the hosts are all constantly rotating and makes that difficult.
However, we do still want the feedback.
Feel free to send it in anytime you want to and it just may take a while.
It'll be probably an upcoming episode by that same host,
which may be a day later and may be a couple weeks later,
but we will forward everything through.
And also since we mentioned, in case it was obvious to you,
website of course would be hackerpublicradio.org.
So if you email admin at or feedback at hackerpublicradio.org,
you'll also be the two main email addresses.
And as an English said, you can contact us directly if you have any problems.
But admin will probably be the main point of contact for everything.
Sight related, show related, you want to volunteer to do episodes,
any technical difficulties, anything like that.
Most of it is going to slide in through admin at hackerpublicradio.org.
Finally, obviously this is a radio show.
Our goal here is to be Monday through Friday.
Is that correct? I'll let you speak. I don't want to put words in your mouth here.
Yes, we want to do Monday through Friday.
I usually don't put a shirt out on a higher day,
but that could change depending on the volume of shows I have.
We could theoretically go seven days a week if we have a volume of shows.
But again, we're going to stick with a five day rotation right now.
Yeah, things may change in the future,
but for right now we're going to do a daily show weekdays only.
So you'll probably get 20 to 22, 23 episodes a month somewhere in that ballpark range.
And the other great thing too is we've really gone to great lengths over the past few months.
Not only in reorganizing and putting all the show together and everything,
but we've contacted some great, great people who have volunteered already in advance
to start doing episodes at the show, have already given this their commitment
that they're going to try to do some shows.
So I think we have so many people that we're not going to have too much of a problem with that.
So you'll hear from Enigma and myself occasionally,
but give them a few samples of some other great people that are going to be on the shows
that have already committed.
So we've got a walker, Dr. Zigman, operator, Tom Aikon,
movie, Dan and Pat Run, the Wink-Wink Tech Show,
Bill Perro, Jason Scott,
Dr. Manojak from the packet sniffers,
CEO of the Creator of the Piracy Documentary,
Ten Valorant Peter from the Fresh Ubuntu Podcast,
and David Gibbs from a lot of Wink's,
a lot of Wink's link podcast,
which is a tongue twister and stuff.
Yeah, actually, Drutes and I were just on that show too.
So he's looking forward to do some episodes on it.
And as well as, you know, a lot of the people that had been doing DWH Tech,
some people have done an episode here and there,
some new people that are joining on as well.
So it's going to be just a lot of people.
I mean, just from the list you named there,
just from all those people I'm looking forward to hearing a lot of great topics from them.
So that should be something to look forward to.
So the website again, hackerpublicradio.org.
We've mentioned email addresses.
You know what to expect as far as the show content.
And in case we haven't emphasized it enough,
the most important thing to emphasize about hacker public radio.
And the reason that it's called a dot org is a dot organization.
This is a hacker community.
An organization that we're trying to get people together.
We want this to be community based.
We do not want this to be despite the fact that we opened up with a little bit of humor
and a joke about Ben Rev Radio.
This is a show in and of itself.
It's nothing to do with binary revolution radio.
It's nothing to do with radio freak America.
There's no strict format.
You don't have to obey any specific restrictions or content guides,
other than what we said as far as being adventurous to hackers.
But you don't have to do email segment and housekeeping unless you want to or choose to.
But it's important to understand that this is a community based thing
and everybody's going to do a show a little bit differently.
The other thing that's kind of related to that,
that I'm looking forward to,
and this is going to be really interesting to see how this works out.
Enigma is the mini series idea that we're going to be incorporating into the show.
Yeah, it seems to be a really good idea.
Troops is going to implement that,
and it should be quite interesting.
Of course, that would be, you know,
we do have all these shotgun type topics
where one day you may hear about C-programming,
and the next day you may hear about a new exploit.
On the next day you may hear some sort of web hacking topic,
and then a movie review or whatever, all over the board.
But sometimes there are running topics.
Like I know the best example that I can come up with is what Troops was talking about,
and that is some Linux distribution reviews.
Troops likes to try a bunch of bootable Linux distros,
and do a review who wanted to do some reviews of those as episodes of the show.
Well, it's a great idea that, yeah, those can be individual episodes
that wouldn't be cool if we could group them all together on the site.
And I guess for lack of a better word,
let's just call it a keyword system.
It's a little more than that,
but basically putting a keyword or a title for this series of reviews,
or whatever the topic may be.
Like I'm already looking at doing some database topics.
So I may record one episode talking about some database basics.
Troops may do one talking about a Linux review,
and then two weeks later I might do a second topic that actually builds on the first one.
I may do something a little bit more advanced on databases.
Troops may do another Linux distro review,
but we want them to be kind of tied back to the previous one,
especially if they build on each other.
Like I'd like to start with some basic database stuff,
and then as it goes on,
go into some more advanced things that build on it.
So if you listen to the later episode,
it would be really handy if you had listened to the first episode,
the earlier episode first.
So we're going to have these many series where we flag these
and put them together in sort of a stream in and of themselves.
So episode 7, 14, 18, and then maybe not until 32,
may all actually be part of one mini series,
and I'm making up the word mini series.
Although it's got a ring to it,
if you can listen to that mini series in order,
and have it make sense,
even though they may have been recorded and streamed
at different times on the actual show,
or on the actual podcast itself.
And I think that opens a lot of mini series and or mini series,
and I hope so you can even get to it two days,
but you're kind of neat with a little mini series,
but in theory, two of us could be doing a mini series
and be grouped into that same,
like I could do a little bit of this episode.
You could do this episode with the time together.
Absolutely.
So it is with the same mini series backpack.
Right. Same thing with the Linux reviews,
other people could do some as well.
Tie them all under that same banner.
And some of the more, I guess, stable
or long-running ones might be highlighted on the web page
so you could find them easily and searchable
and all that kind of good stuff.
All right.
So, again, if you want to participate, contact us.
And is there anything else that we want to mention
on this premiere episode?
No, I think we've covered it.
All I wanted to say was that shows usually we run about,
you know, five to twenty minutes,
but that's just a guideline, not a hard rule.
I have shows go for an hour,
like your state, but we won't go there.
Yes, we won't run the one yet.
And that's worth doing a couple of plastic episodes
to get the general idea of what we're doing for them.
They're actually going to be the same format.
So you can check that out and just be enough.
You have any ideas?
Yeah, and actually that's a good point to bring up, too,
is that there's no time limit.
Again, it goes back to what I said earlier about.
Whatever you want to format, however,
you want to format your show that's great.
And related to the mini-series,
perhaps you have a style that you always want to do.
Maybe you do always want to open up with,
I don't know, a joke or a mini-review or something
that you want to do on every episode that you do,
you have the freedom to do that.
So you can put those all together,
and it can all, not only is it a mini-series,
but it's almost like a show within a show.
So that's kind of an interesting possibility as well.
There is no time limit.
So, you know, some topics may be five minute episodes.
Some topics may be two hour episodes.
I really don't even think we have a maximum.
I mean, I'm not concerned with it.
So I guess we'll worry about that as the time comes.
But, you know, I can certainly see maybe some presentations
that are hour long being put on the podcast
or recaps of presentations, things like that.
And the only thing formatting,
and this is probably a good way to close out
this first premiere episode.
The only thing as far as formatting is
there will be a regular opening theme music
done by our good French Flicko,
which really, really is awesome.
I love it.
I have to say.
So every episode will open.
You don't have to worry about bringing your own theme music
or closing song or any of that kind of stuff,
just the content.
And then we'll take care of the rest.
We're going to put the 30-second opening theme
at the beginning of every episode,
like the one you heard starting today's show.
And then the full version of that same song
closing out every show,
and add probably at the end of each show,
depending on if we have sponsors or not.
And to help pay for the website and bandwidth
that this is going to inevitably cause on our server.
And that's about it.
So definitely just a Slicko for some great, great music.
I really like it.
And I'm looking forward to this show.
I hope everybody listening is.
And Nigma, thank you for doing all the work behind the scenes.
You don't get nearly enough credit.
So thank you for that.
And unless you have anything else.
No, I just wanted to shout out all the former hosts of TWAT.
And hopefully we can have most of them back for HDR.
And that's pretty much it.
I'm sure we will.
All of them.
And then some more.
And then some new ones.
And hopefully we'll be still around to maybe do it.
And update a one year anniversary and see how the whole thing went a year from now.
But until then that's going to be on my calendar.
There you go.
Until then that's going to do it for this premiere episode of HPR Hacker Public Radio.
Thank you for listening.
And we'll see you next week.
Same hack time.
Same hack.
No, no, no.
This is all right.
We'll see everybody tomorrow on the next episode of HPR.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Pharaoh.net.
So head on over to C-A-R-O-DOT-E-T for all your hosting needs.
.
.
.
