Episode: 881
Title: HPR0881: Intel Atom processor
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0881/hpr0881.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 04:01:13

---

We provide you with a closer look.
Good day, Hacker Public Radio.
This is JWP, and I'm going to talk to you a little bit about the Atom Intel processor.
I own a lot of atoms, and I have to say that I've been pretty pleased with all of them.
It's sort of a love-hate thing that I have going on with my HP Netbook.
It seems that it doesn't perform as well as the atom that I bought two years ago.
But interestingly enough, there's not that much difference between an atom chip
and a Netbook running an atom that I purchased two years ago,
and one that I purchased this year running an atom.
It's a brand name from Intel for an ultra-low voltage x86 and x8664 CPUs from Intel.
It has a 45 nanometer COMUS, and it's mainly used in netbooks, net tops, and embedded applications
ranging from health care to advanced robotics.
In 2009, Intel announced the next generation of atom processors, including the N450 with a total power kit consumption down by 20%.
Now, this is the chip that I have in my Toshiba is in 450.
The later ones that I purchased are more, I guess you could say more 64-bit.
They call it Intel 64.
If you got Silver Home or Lincraft, it does what they call Intel VTX.
If you got the Diamondville or the Pineview or Cedar Trail,
basically anything with an N, an N, a D, or a number in front of it.
Whereas if you got the two Z models, the Z5 or the Z6, you might not have full 64-bit capacity.
Whereas the N2XX doesn't have Intel 64 either, but both my netbooks have 64-bit, so they're both atom, I believe they're both pine-deus.
And I think they're both ones a single and ones a dual.
And so it's quite good little chips.
The performance of a single core atom is about half that of a pinium M of the same clock rate.
For example, an atom N270 can be found in many netbooks such as the triple EPC and deliver around 3,300 Mips and 2.1 Gigaflops and standard performance.
Compared to 7,400 Mips or 3.9 Gigaflops of a similarly clocked pinium M.
But because I use Linux on these boxes, I don't notice the difference.
Both have been quite good for me and both run, well one's running mint.
They're actually both of them are running mint now.
And I can see myself moving almost immediately as soon as the next long-term Ubuntu comes out to move both those netbooks to the long-term version of Ubuntu.
Well, that's about it for the atom processor.
Again, be sure that you understand that Diamondville is the first one that does a 64-bit really, really well.
Alright, thank you. Bye-bye.
You have been listening to HackerPublic Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
HackerPublic Radio was founded by the digital dot-pound and new Phonomicom computer cloud.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under creative comments,
attribution, share a like, videos or license.
