Episode: 213
Title: HPR0213: Fav Podcasts
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0213/hpr0213.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 14:01:04

---


Hello and welcome to Hacker Public Radio.
I'm Monster B and on the line with me today is Peter 64.
How you doing Peter?
Yeah, good things, Monster B and yourself?
Ah, pretty good.
So what do you want to talk about today, our favorite podcast?
Well, yeah, I think because many of you have so much time during your jobs to listen
to them, we have quite a few on our list.
So what do you use to get all your podcasts, because I use G-Potter.
Yeah, well, as you pretty well know, I use the same and I think you were the one who
pointed me in that direction.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
All the other ones I've tried, I used to use the one building to KDE, Aggregator or something,
I think it was cool, but it always seems to pull down the same ones all the time, even
after you'd already listened to them.
Well, I became a pain.
Yeah.
A lot of people used that bash potter that linked me.
Yeah, well, I had a muck around with that, and I thought that was pretty good too.
But for simplicity's sake and reliability, what, how long have we been using G-Potter
now?
See a while, isn't it?
It's probably been about a year for me.
Yeah, and I thought I would have started just after you recommended it, and yeah, very
reliable.
And each update, it just seems to get better and better.
Yeah, it does.
I like how they added that avatar in there now.
We get the little pictures.
Yeah, the little picture it also shows up on my player now.
Oh, does it?
Yeah, it's pretty neat.
Oh, that's pretty cool.
And what do you use to listen to your podcast?
It's an I-Audio 7.
Oh, right.
And it does.
Oh, it doesn't.
Yeah.
That's the main reason I got it.
That's all I listened.
That's all I downloaded, the OGS.
Yeah.
And I bought that Chio when he's knock off iPhone from Hong Kong.
And unfortunately, he only does MP3.
But because I listen on the Mara all the time, I like to have, well, as you all say,
well, I don't hear you real good.
And so I like to be able to have my phone as well as the MP3 player all in one.
And that way, if my wife or someone rings me on the Mara, I can hear the phone call
come through.
Yeah, it's pretty neat that it's, you know, it's all built in together with the phone
and everything.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, it's not huge.
I just have a, I think it has a 2G card in it now.
I think that's what I put in.
I'm not sure.
But 2G is playing for me and my podcast.
I don't keep music or anything on it.
And the occasional, you know, book, what do they call them?
The audio books that I pulled down from, what's that place called, some place on the
internet.
I can't remember what it's called now.
Portier books or something, is it?
OK, I never trade those yet.
Well, I don't mind science fiction.
And one of the plates in the IFC recommended a really good book called Star Surgeon, I
think it was.
And I got right into that.
And then also, I think it was chess, when he used to do the Linux reality, recommended
the seventh son.
And that end up being sort of a trilogy with seven books, three books.
And I got right into them, they were pretty good too.
But like I said, when you sit on an animal for eight hours, it gives you plenty of time
to listen to these sort of things.
Yeah, you must have a good headset on your player, because I have a hard time, you know,
if I'm even in the car, and I have your buds, and I have a hard time listening, I got
to play mine through the NFM transmitter, to plug into a cigarette lighter.
Oh, yeah, yeah, there's good audio.
Yeah, and I set that to like, say, 106.9, and then set my stereo to 106.9, and it comes
in perfect.
Yeah, so the audio is pretty good on that, yeah?
Yeah, it's really good.
Yeah, just, I'll tell you a name on Ebay there, because they're actually pretty cheap,
aren't they?
Yeah, this one was probably 30 bucks.
Oh, I can't get wrong with that.
And it has like 15 different stations, so if I'm ever in an area that, you know, there's
interference with that station, because, you know, the actual real station is playing,
I can just switch it to a different one.
Yeah, right.
Now, I would say on the malware, I've got the Ebay in, but I've then got EMFs over the
top of that.
Certainly without the EMFs, I wouldn't be able to hear the thing at all.
When you've got a three-cylinder diesel motor two foot from your head, you have to get
a bit layout.
Oh, yeah.
But, you know, like, like you said, the sound quality, I think it's really good on mine,
but I don't play any music, it's all, it's all podcast, so.
Yeah, well, I'm the same issue, if it's not a podcast, it's a book.
I was just trying to think of that side.
Well, maybe you'll think of it later, but I have a collection of all the podcasts, all
the ones that I listen to, and I have a big list on my, my say, Must-a-B dot org, and
I'll put that in the show notes.
Yeah, now, tell you, this is the place I go to, actually, I think I've got about 90%
of my podcasts from this site when I first met you on the IR, saying you told me about
it.
And, yeah, especially Linux, if you're into Linux, this is the place to go and get, yeah,
so I told you, you've got a variety there now, haven't you?
Yeah, I got quite a collection, I probably had this website going for maybe five years,
so these are just, just links that I collected over the years.
And, how many of you actually got now, do you know, did I see, 243?
Oh, just the podcast, yeah, just, yeah.
Yeah, 243, but that's, that's counting some, some forums and some news sites, you know,
just for, on podcasting.
Oh, right.
But actual Linux podcast, they have 46 listed.
Oh, yeah, yep.
And then you also, like you said, you, you've got another list there that's a bit shorter
of your favorite ones.
So, did you want to run through them?
Because most of your favorite ones are my favorite ones as well.
All right, so the first one I have on there is Alternate Geek.
You listen to that one.
Yeah, I think Alternate Geek is one of the ones I've listened to, but it's not one of my
main stream ones.
Yeah, there used to be three people doing the podcast and I get their, well, Linux
check is on there all the time and code Ninja, I think, is on there now.
I think tech monkeys, he's not on there anymore, but it's a pretty good show.
So, what they talk about, what gadgets and video games as well, I see, not just Linux,
specific or...
No, they talk about everything, everything tech.
Oh, right.
Yeah, they sort of podcast.
I'm actually surprised that this one more often because that's the sort of thing I like
to listen to, ones on gadgets and that, you know, even, even do a movie reviews and stuff
like that I enjoyed to listen to.
Yeah, I noticed the next one, sorry.
Yeah, I was going to say, the next one we both listened to is the bad apples.
Yeah, with that bloody clout, too, bloke.
Yeah.
You need to trouble where you're that follow.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Really good podcast.
He also has, I'll skip down a little bit since we're talking about hemp, is Fedora reloaded.
Yeah, actually, not that I use Fedora, but I really enjoy listening to him
and scale it on that one.
There's always something interesting on it.
Probably, don't come out as regular as I'd like.
No, it's probably been a month since he put one out.
Yeah, although I understand he's been pretty busy with moving in that.
Yeah.
And...
Just a little bit more.
We got BSD talk with World Backman, do you listen to that one?
No, this is one I actually haven't heard of before.
Now, this BSD, that's something I've never been into anyway.
I've never even looked at BSD.
You've had a play around with it, haven't you?
Yeah, I played around with it, but I like his podcast.
He does, merely does interviews, and a lot of times it's some of the people that might
be, you know, stuff that we use, you know, like open SSH, or, you know what I mean?
Stuff that's...
It's a real short podcast, it's usually only like 15 to 25 minutes long.
Yeah, typically I find that I tend to go for the longer ones.
I don't know why, maybe because, you know, when I get on a maro, I know I'm going to
be shitting on there for seven hours.
I just want to click a button and just listen, and that's why I tend to like ones like
the Linux link tech show on that, to go for a few hours, rather than the shorter ones.
Yeah, since you brought that one up, I have that on my list too.
Well, I think just about every person who has got anything to do with Linux would be
listening to the Linux link tech show, and if you're not, and you haven't heard of it
for some reason, well, that should be number one on your list.
And they've been around since 2003.
Yeah, a long time, and if there's something that these Blades don't know, well, I'll be
pretty sure.
And they have a lot of good, they do a lot of good interviews too.
Oh, yeah, that's...
That's my favorite part.
They have big names.
Yeah.
These Blades really do get the big names in the Linux world, except for that 330 Blake,
he was on there once.
Yeah, he kind of ruined the show.
Yeah, and there I think he's a big name, but you're not.
Now, Gowing Linux, that's with Larry Bushy and Tom Shedol.
Is any of you pronouncing his name?
Did I skip some?
Yeah, I'm not sure what his last name is.
Yeah, but Larry Bushy and Tom, going Linux, yeah, that's pretty good show too.
It's more targeted toward noobs, but you know, I enjoy listening to it.
Yeah, it's out of eye, and they sort of do it in stages too when you say noobs, that
they sort of do what the first one in the month covers a specific topic.
And then the second one in the month is a little bit more technical, isn't it, on that
same topic?
Yeah, they get a little bit more advanced into it.
Yeah.
And then they also, or Larry Bushy's on that, one of the radio shows, every America,
radio America or something, isn't it?
Computer America?
America or something like that.
Yeah, I've actually listened to it.
Yeah, because you can damn my advice too, as well, can't you?
Yeah, those are pretty good too.
Yeah, I've only listened to a couple of them, but yeah, I've enjoyed them.
The ones I did listen to.
So that's not a bad podcast.
It's seeing them.
We skipped around on their list a little bit, but I'll go ahead and throw these two in
together too.
These are both by Russ Winner.
He does the DistraWatch Weekly podcast, and the Techie Geek podcast.
Yeah, the Techie Geek, I quite enjoy it.
The other one you mentioned there, was the DistraWatch Weekly?
Oh, right, yeah, I've actually heard him talk about it, but I've never really listened
to it.
Yeah, he covers the DistraWatch Weekly blog, and talks about new releases and some of
the reviews that's on the DistraWatch web page.
Right, and how long did I run for roughly?
I think they're just probably 30 minutes long, and then the Techie Geek is probably, I
say, average is probably an hour long.
Oh, yeah.
I hope to add that one at DistraWatch Weekly to my list and have a listen.
Yeah, it doesn't actually have a web page for the DistraWatch Weekly, so on my favorite
page, I just put the links to the feeds.
Then just kind of back to your website, monthsbead.org, how much time would you spend on this
a week?
Oh, how much time do I put in a week?
Yeah.
Sometimes I don't even touch it for months.
Usually I get an email from somebody once, you know, they have a Linux link or they started
up a new site, you know, I might go in there and add their link to it, but probably once
a month, they run a key link status just to check for dead links.
Yeah, okay.
So that's what you're doing the other night when we're talking the hour, so you said there
was quite a few links on there that were dead.
Yeah, because I kind of skipped a few months and I had probably 100 dead links on there,
you know, people started on websites and decided they don't want to do them anymore.
And what program do you use to do that?
It's called a K-link status.
And how do you set work?
I know we're talking about podcasts, but this is interesting.
Not in the list.
Well, it's a real simple program.
All you do is put the link of the website, like all you do is put monsterbead.org into
it and hit scan, and it just scans all the pages on my server and checks them for, it
makes sure everything's working each link.
That's pretty handy, so I mean, that would come in like, okay, your site is mainly about
links, obviously, but even for people who don't have as many as you, certainly should run
it once every time.
Because nothing more annoying when you click on a bloody link and it doesn't go anywhere.
Yeah.
You know, and a lot of, you know, if I get a 404 on a website, and I know it's a, you
know, it's a big site, you know, I won't delete the link.
But if it's a little site that, you know, it could be a fly by night site that somebody
sent me, and I get a 404, I'll just take it off the site and delete it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's a pretty good idea.
But if it's an error 403 or something else minor, I'll let it go until next month and
check it again.
So don't tell me you're actually one of the very few people to understand this 404 or
and all that sort of errors.
Well, the 404 just means it means it's just the bad link.
It doesn't work anymore.
And I think a 403 is just like a permission thing, like something that's set up on the
server right or they can be doing maintenance or something.
Yeah, maintenance.
I'm just hitting it at the right time.
Okay.
Yeah.
I've never really paid much attention to that sort of stuff.
So what else here?
We've got now, of course, Hacker Public Radio.
Yeah, that's all my favourites.
Yeah.
And yeah, that's good because it covers a hell of a lot of different topics.
Yeah, that's what I like about it.
Something different every day.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, some of them are quite short.
Some of them along.
So yeah, you really, you don't know, Jack, what you're going to get until you start to
listen to it unless you actually read on the site what it was you were going to get.
But just about all of them are good.
Oh, yeah.
And then the next one, a list is Lennox Basement with Chad Wallenberg.
Yeah, and we know Chad pretty well.
Now, he does it a little bit different to a lot of people in that for a complete season
or what people call a season, I suppose, is that he will cover typically one topic where
it might be what installing Drupal or something like that.
Yeah.
His podcast was the first one that I noticed, somebody going by seasons, I noticed it
with him first.
And then caught two with the bad apples before that they'd never noticed people doing seasons
before.
No, the only other thing that's talking of seasons is the Lennox action show.
I think everything's I started listening to them.
They were going in seasons, but yeah, but if you interested in Drupal or I think Chad
covered security there for one of his seasons, but he covers the topic, but he also, there's
also a lot of other stuff involved in his show too, and he'll even sing your song.
So it's one of my more favorite, one of the more favorite ones I'll listen to.
Oh, yeah.
Like, all these are my favorites, and I'm not going to like, we're kind of reading them
in order.
So I don't want to say which one is my more favorite.
Yeah.
We're going to go in an alphabetical order here.
Yeah, that's true, too.
Now this next one, we both, well, this is my number one favorite.
I'm not going to say any favorites except for this next one.
No.
That's the Lennox cranks, and if people haven't heard of these blokes, well, you probably
don't want to.
They can talk for hours about nothing.
And the main cranks are, what's myself, you, Clotu, Chad, Silk?
Three, 30 years, always, our host opens the show and closes it, typically.
Yeah, and that, that, like, the Lennox link tech show was actually, we do that live on
Saturday nights, or Saturday nights in the States, in Australia, it's done actually on
Sunday afternoon, about two o'clock, and you know, you work out at the rest of the world
yourself.
Now, and also with this one, this is one of the bees already, this one.
And we also, it's done live, and we have call-ins every night.
Oh, yeah, every night we do it.
Yeah, and it's working out pretty good, because we start off with some news, and then,
if you have a pizza pick, we do that, and after that, we take the call-ins.
Yeah.
And everyone seems to have a lot of fun.
And it's certainly...
Oh, well, I can't believe how much it's grown in popularity.
It really surprises both, I think, didn't it?
Oh, yeah.
I thought, for sure, we would have maybe 15, 20 listeners, you know, just to people from
the A or C.
Yeah, and that's exactly what I thought, too.
Well, that certainly helps when you have big names like Chad and Clotu.
We often have the Lennox link tech guys, Pat comes on there a fair bit, Dan's been
on it, and of course, Saviates comes on it and talks to us and talking to Dave Yates.
We've been a mention he's podcast.
Yeah, a lot of Lennox links.
Yeah, and it's special, because I'm sure it's the only one who's done fine along the
highway, 75 miles an hour in a Honda Civic.
That's right.
And you know what, and really, I mean, how all of us met is through Dave Yates, through
the A or C channel?
Yeah, that's right.
I mean, if it wasn't for him, there would be no Lennox cranks.
Yeah, I was going to say that how many shows has Dave inspired?
How many people has Dave inspired to actually go out and start doing podcasts?
And I actually speak to myself and I'm one of them.
Oh, yeah, there's quite a few.
Yeah.
I'm not going to mention names because I'll probably say, no, that wasn't the reason.
But we know it is.
Yeah, the next one you'll list is the Lennox crazy with Dave Abbott.
And one thing about Dave, he's exuberance really comes through when he's talking about
it.
And the other thing I like about Dave is he actually works on a golf course as well.
Yeah.
Two blokes in the world that I know who work on golf courses and use Lennox.
And Dave was one, well, both Dave's, Dave Yates and Dave Abbott.
And they're both their podcasts as the reason I use Fluxbox today because both of them
talked about it pretty well at the same time.
And that really got me interested in it.
And Dave did a really good podcast on War, War Bar.
I think it's called setting War Bar up in Fluxbox and everything.
And he does a how-to that you can really listen along and do it as you're listening,
which was really good.
Yeah, so Lennox crazy is a really good podcast and he's a gen 2 user.
Yeah, yeah, that seems to be his favourite.
He always says that he used to drink and when he gave up drinking, he found himself with
plenty of spare time.
So he started to learn Linux.
Yeah.
Linux is good as reason as any.
Yeah.
Yeah, he's been doing live shows once in a while with Russ Winner and sometimes with Verbal.
Oh, okay.
Well, I must admit, because it's been winter over here, I didn't have as much time to listen
to podcast.
So probably last four months, there's been a few that I haven't listened to that come
in to Sumeroy Wheel on a more regular basis.
All right.
The next one on the list is Lettings Outlaws.
Yeah, now this is one of those shows that it's really grown in popularity too.
That denim fab that they just seemed to have taken, I don't know if it's just the UK
by storm, but they produce a really good show.
Oh, yeah, they're really good.
I think it's everywhere, even in the States, they're pretty popular.
Yeah.
And I don't know that these two blacks should even met.
I think they finally did at log radio live.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Although prior to that, they just, I think they met in an IRC channel much, much like
we did.
Right.
But you can tell by they just seem to have clicked and have a really good working relationship.
And they cover a lot of good topics to use and stuff like that and give you a bit of
a rundown on distributions when they're released, and it's certainly one not to miss
as well.
Yeah, I enjoy that one.
And then the next one was Linux Questions with Jeremy, which I haven't heard anything
from them in a long time, so I don't even know if he's still podcasting or not.
It's been a few months.
Yeah.
I only listen to a few of these.
This has got to do with the Linux Questions site, which is probably one of, would it be
the biggest Linux-related forum?
I think it's probably, it's one of the biggest ones, plus I think that's the official Slackware
forum.
Oh, right.
Yeah.
So I know when, especially when I first got into Linux, and actually, in fact, I did
a search for something the other day, and I found a post I'd done, I think it was back
in 2004 on Linux Questions about when I was first starting to install MythTV, so it's
been around a hell of a long time.
Yeah, that's one of the bigger ones.
The other, another big forum is a USA Lug, yeah, I think it's USALug.org, that's another
big one.
Oh, I've never heard of that.
So let's see, next on your list is Open Voices, now this is one I've never heard of, either.
It's from the Linux Foundation, actually, I don't think they've done one in a while, I think
they've been doing them like maybe once, every six weeks, so it takes them a while to put
stuff out.
Hell, how much time do you have a day to listen to podcasts?
I have probably, probably a good eight hours a day to listen to podcasts.
Right, did you spend a lot of your day in the track, is it?
Yeah, I, well, you figure I have an hour to work in an hour back, so that's two hours,
and I deliver pharmaceuticals to hospitals, so I have probably another six hours to listen
in the truck.
So I have 39 podcasts in my podcast or G-Potter, so with all these podcasts, I never have
to worry about running out.
Yeah, it's going to say, I'm not exactly sure, I mean, I've got an G-Potter, but it wouldn't
quite be that many.
So you're not even talking to CB radio when you're in your track?
No, I don't even have one.
Yeah, I can't stand those things.
No, I do know you're Twitter, I tweeted to the other day, I said, break a breaker, this
is the rough rider.
Yeah, it's not a CB, I use Twitter.
But Twitter, anyway, now, Paul.com, another one I've never heard of.
Yeah, Paul.com security, it's all about security, and it's all I can say about it.
If you listen to security now with Steve Gibson, that's kind of like the fake stuff.
Oh, okay.
Paul.com security is the real stuff.
And it's not just one big ad.
No, it's not.
It's all about whatever Steve Gibson is trying to sell.
Spin right.
It's all about spin right.
Yeah, I must admit, I've never listened to that security now.
On that Twitter network, the only one I actually do listen to is Twitter.
I don't mind listening to Leo.
Not that I grow if everything he says, that he just seems to be an easy bloke to listen to.
And he seems to surround himself with a lot of smart people who do have a bit of a clue
of what's going on.
I listened to that one, and it was called FOSS Weekly or FOSS.
FOSS, I think it's FOSS free.
Oh, I don't know.
It's a free end open source.
I don't know.
Actually, I always thought it was FOSS, but it must be FOSS.
I don't know.
Listen to that one.
Is that the one with Randall?
Yeah.
That's what everyone knows.
This one with Randall Schwartz.
He doesn't like Linux.
He's a BSD user.
Yeah.
You know, I still downloaded.
Really, I listened to it for the interviews, the people they have on.
Yeah.
I listened to...
I think it was a bloke before him that used to do it.
Oh, Christopher Bonan.
Yeah.
I did listen to a few.
He's quite enjoyed them.
Yeah, I know.
He's good.
That's one FOSS Weekly was really good.
Now, productive Linux.
Yeah, that's a good one.
That's with Nathan Hell.
It's probably like a 30-minute podcast.
Well, the last one I listened to, he did one on a glipper that Clipboard Manager for Linux.
Oh, right.
Yeah.
And I think that show was only 15 minutes long, but he averages probably a 30-minute show.
He usually targets one thing and talks about it.
It's a pretty decent show.
Yeah, I think it's one of those ones that I'll grab, but you know, it's not sort of my favorites one.
I'll listen to it if I've run out of other ones to listen to, but I haven't heard one for a while.
Now, your next one here that you list.
I know you weren't going to say which was your favorite in that, but you put me onto this one.
And this is my absolute favorite podcast.
The skeptics guide to the universe.
You're escaped to reality.
Now, this Stephen Novella, Robert Novella, Rebecca Watson and Evan Bernstein.
J. Novella as well, does it?
Typically, I think there's usually four of them on there.
You know, they might take it in turns or whatever.
This is one of those ones that's sort of a science podcast.
And it's one that I'll listen to a couple of times.
Oh, yeah, it's a really good one.
Yeah, they just seem to...
Well, as the name suggests, they're skeptics.
But it's not all skeptical stuff.
It's a lot of science involved.
And I think there's more than 45,000 listeners to it now.
And there's even...
I think you mentioned the other day there was even talk of them maybe doing a Discovery Channel show or something.
Yeah, I heard something about that.
I don't know if it was this... Yeah, Discovery Channel or Learning Channel.
Yeah, definitely would be interesting even on TV.
Oh, yeah.
I think they do a lot of...
Even broadcast a few of them now on YouTube or something as well.
I haven't watched it.
But certainly it's...
It's just one of those podcasts that's really enjoyable.
If you're into science.
Even if you're not, I think, you know, give it a try because you might like it.
Yeah, well that's true.
Yeah.
You know, they talk about a lot of stuff that's in the news.
Like when that big foot thing was going on, those people found...
The remains of big foot.
Yeah, and they even tell you it wasn't true.
Right.
Before the people came out and said it wasn't true.
Yeah, definitely, definitely.
I would say give that a big listen.
Now, we're already talking about the Techie Geek, haven't we?
Yeah.
It's right.
Yeah.
That's your favorite list, which is pretty well.
Most of them are my favorites too.
Well, I have a lot more that I could put on there.
But I just haven't got around to it.
Do it.
Yeah, on my favorite list.
Yeah, the...
But the out layout is one that I like to listen to.
Have you ever listened to that?
The CNET one?
Yeah, I tried to listen to it a few times.
I mean, it was all right.
I'm just not...
It seemed like they talked a little too much about iPads and iPhones.
Yeah, I think with that, because they produce it daily, they've got to talk about anything.
Anything that happens to be big news at the time.
And probably the iPhone at that time was the big news ticket.
But the reason I do like it is it is because it's daily and the news is up to date.
Like, if they're talking about it, typically happen that day.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, what's their names?
I forgot their names.
But she's on a guest on Twitter live and so is he.
But anyways.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, they're entertaining.
I just didn't, you know, a few times that I caught it.
I just didn't like it.
But, you know, for mainstream news, it's probably pretty good.
Molly, that's...
Yeah.
What Molly would or something, isn't it?
Yeah, that's it.
That what they call it.
Then they had Tom and Jason.
Even, I think they had Leon on one day and all that.
But yeah, I don't mind it.
I know what you mean about the iPod and all that sort of stuff.
And another one that is not Linux specific, but I don't know why I like even like this one.
But I never seemed to miss it as the cranky...
cranky geeks with John C. DeVorek.
Maybe I'd just like to laugh at him.
I'm not sure.
But yeah, I don't know.
I seem to listen to that one all the time.
I must enjoy it, even if I don't want to tell myself I do.
I catch it once in a while.
With not a big fan?
No, not really.
I downloaded the videos a few times and threw them on DVD, just the way to my TV.
But, you know, I guess if I were out of a Linux podcast, I might listen to it.
So, I'm having a listen.
Talking about Linux podcast, what about Ubuntu UK?
Did we mention that?
No, we didn't.
That's a good one too.
That's fairly new.
There's so many episodes they have out now.
They're up to 16 episodes now.
Yeah, that's with Popeye and who else does it?
I can't remember the lady.
Yeah, her name's Laura.
Then there's Dave and Tony on there.
Yeah, now obviously with a name like Ubuntu UK, it's going to cover Ubuntu.
But, still, even if you don't use it, it's still good to listen to.
Yeah, the quality of their show is really good too.
The sound quality and, you know, the music that they have, you know, feeding in and out in between sections like that.
It's funny you mention the music because...
What do you call that music?
I don't know.
I don't know, and I call it now.
Because I never used to hear it.
And it's like an old time music, isn't it?
Yeah.
Laurel and Hardy sort of stuff.
Yeah.
But, like Popeye said to me in the, I see one day, he said, what do you think of the music?
And I sort of had to think and I thought, what music is she talking about?
And I said, oh, it must be all right.
Well, I said, yeah, it's good because I thought, oh, it must be all right because I've never really thought about it.
And every since he said that, now all I bloody do is hear that right music.
I don't know, I hate it.
But other than that, so anyway, if you're going to listen to it, don't listen to the music.
Well, see, I like it.
So I'd prefer to drag my fingers down a blackboard now than listen to that music, but that's just me.
I think they have a really nice format though.
Oh, yeah, great podcast.
I mean, I'm prepared to listen to that.
And when we say music, and I need gas for a few seconds each time between each segment, doesn't it?
Yeah.
Now, what about Verbal's podcast?
Have you ever listened to that one?
Now, I only heard that a couple of times.
The name even escapes me.
It's got to do with trivia.
Yeah, Verbal's Linux trivia podcast.
Now, is it actually specific to Linux or?
Mainly it is, but he talks about like local Chicago news.
You know, like if there's something going on around Chicago, you all mention it.
Oh, right.
Yeah, so this is probably one that I'd listen to more in the summer.
I guess you actually appreciate the golf course during winter.
You don't spend a lot of time mowing.
And I typically went to spend a lot more time on the, uh,
the later in the back how and on a chainsaw, uh,
bring down trees and stuff like that.
And they're not conducive spot, uh,
good good podcast listening.
I'm afraid.
No matter how good your e-muffs are.
But yeah, so this is probably one that I'll get back and listen to again,
uh, now that the mowing season has started.
I mean, yeah, I have a lot on my list.
I mean, I can't go through all of them,
but I'll just pick out a few more that I enjoy listening to like, um,
source trunk.
Um, yeah, I'm trying to think who done that?
That's not the, the German,
the foreign standing fellow who talks about beer.
His name's Demetri.
He starts the, uh, the podcast off with a, with a beer.
You know, some kind of exotic, uh, imported beer.
Yeah, yeah.
I do.
Yeah.
This is another one that I'll get mowing to in summer.
I haven't heard him for a while, but yeah, it's one of,
one of the ones I enjoy.
I'm just, um, having a look at my list here, which I think
we've covered most of many way.
There's nothing really.
There's a lot of new ones out there too, like, uh,
the Lennox Void.
That's a good one.
Uh, Foskeek.
That's a really good one.
And there's one more I'm trying to think of.
It's a, it's a newer one.
Oh, a Freedom Sox.
Oh, yeah.
What, I'm going to do that one.
What's that about?
Uh, let's see.
There's, there's two guys that do it.
It's pretty much just two guys talking about,
talking about Lennox.
See, I mean, just like,
it's kind of got the same format as, uh, Lennox Outlaws.
See, see what that Lennox Void.
Oh, right.
They do, they do about the same thing.
Okay.
So it's, uh, UK one.
Yeah.
Let's, uh, just have a look.
And see what that Foskeek.
That's just one guy doing it.
Yeah, he's just one guy.
But I'm trying to find his name here.
Uh, well, you're looking for that.
There's one too, that, uh, we ever mentioned,
which is the Armored Penguin, which a friend of ours does.
Um, Falcon Rider.
Who's often in a lot of Lennox links.
Now, at the moment, he's only got two out,
but he is, uh, yeah, somewhat of a security expert.
And I was talking to him today,
and he said that, uh,
unlike us in the Lennox cranksuit,
who don't, uh, do any preparation for our show.
He has, at the moment, 16 pages of notes prepared for his next show.
So, uh, that will give you an idea about our series.
He used when it comes to security on computers.
And for, for a while,
I was worried he wasn't going to do another one.
Yeah, he's just been really busy, um,
from my understanding, he travels a lot for his job.
Uh, just hasn't had time.
Yeah, because he's, well, he only did, uh,
episode zero and one.
So, this will only be the second one.
Oh, the third one depends where you look at it.
But anyway, so we hope that'll come out soon.
But keep an eye on his side.
Uh, the Armored Penguin.
Got Ned, I think it is, isn't it?
Yeah.
Uh, full circle magazine.
Do they still do?
That's the Ubuntu one.
They do podcast still, obviously.
Oh, let me check.
That was one.
I used to get that magazine.
Uh, I guess how they still, um, produce that too.
I'm going to have to move this one over to the, uh,
inactive, uh, directory.
Because they haven't done one in a long time.
They only did two episodes.
Who said the, uh, full circle?
Oh, right.
I did that, and you do two podcasts, did they?
Yeah, that's it.
Oh, right.
And another one is that Fresh Ubuntu.
I'm going to have to move that over to the, uh,
inactive folder too, because it looks like they're,
as I've seen on Twitter, they're, uh,
going to give it up.
They're not going to do anymore.
All right.
Um, one that I did listen to,
and I don't know what happened to them,
was it's a good Linux morning.
And, uh, that was done by a couple of blokes who used to do it.
Really early.
You have a cup of coffee.
I think it was the only time they found that they could do it,
was before they went to work.
Uh, and that seems to be gone by the wayside again.
Yeah, that one's gone too.
I've never got a chance to listen to that one.
Well, for some reason I enjoyed it.
That was really just a couple of blokes.
Uh, one was, uh,
yeah, uh, a noob.
He was just coming over from Windows,
and, uh,
and the other blake was pretty conversant with,
with Linux.
But, yeah, he wasn't a bad one,
but I wouldn't hold my breath for another one.
I don't think they've produced one since,
uh, about October and November last year,
actually when I look.
Yeah, another one is gutsy geeks.
Have you ever listened to this one?
No.
It's a gusty geeks,
gustygeeks.com.
It's a radio show
that airs once a week in Arizona.
And, of course, they put it out as a podcast,
but there's no feed.
You have to manually download it from their site.
Uh, right.
That's a pretty good one.
Yeah, I was just looking at the site.
It's not too bad.
Yeah, the only bad thing is there's commercials.
So you have to, uh, fast forward.
Yeah, well, if you listen to Twitter
and, um,
cranky gates should be used to commercials.
Yeah.
Well, at least, uh,
with the gutsy geeks and cranky geeks,
at least you know when the commercials are.
So you can fast forward it.
The bad thing about Twitter,
they just integrate those commercials right into it,
so you're forced to listen to them.
Yeah.
Well, um,
Laya does a lot of live, doesn't he?
Yeah.
I'm tired of hearing about the audible books.
Audible.
Yeah.
So, um,
now another podcast.
I think I mentioned this
when the U.A. just a go was the gadget boys.
Well, they haven't produced one for a long time.
It was typically, they did a lot of gadget reviews,
also movie reviews,
uh, stuff like that.
But if you get on their site,
you can still find that they're still doing, like,
movie reviews of that.
And DVDs, you know,
Blue Raisin and all that sort of stuff.
But they haven't produced a podcast in a long while.
Although I don't recall them saying
they were going to stop doing it.
No, I enjoyed that one too.
You told me about it,
and I think I listened to two episodes
before they, uh,
kind of stopped doing them.
Yeah, I was wondering why.
I always hoped that they'd come back.
I think one of them was going to have a kid,
and maybe something,
they got in the way of it.
And they were just starting to get into Linux.
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah.
One of them had just installed it
or something,
and, oh, well, not just he installed it,
and was using it a fair bit,
and used to comment on it a fair bit too.
Yeah, it's a pity that one I did enjoy it.
I still go to the website,
just have a look at their movie reviews
every show often.
And that's gadget boys
with a Z.
If anyone wants to look enough.
Well, through this one out there too,
it's called RetroBits.
The RetroBits podcast.
This one's all about classic computers,
anti-computers.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, he'll take, like, say, like the Apple II,
and just do, like, two episodes on it,
all about the Apple II,
or the Commodore 64,
or he might, like, get, like, an old printer
from the 70s.
Oh, yeah.
He'll just do a review on it.
Yeah.
This would be a good one.
And I'm pretty entertaining.
Well, I don't know if you did the same as me,
but I still have computer magazines from back.
I've gotten those when, you know,
I go back years.
And I keep them all in a box
out in the cupboard,
that in the shed.
And quite frequently, we'll go
and just grab one from, like, maybe eight years ago
or something.
And it's just amazing to have a look
at how far we've come.
Oh, yeah.
And how cheap the hobbies become.
Yeah, back.
I remember that.
Back from the day.
Yeah, that's the thing.
I mean, I have a,
I'll compact a motor
that I still use today.
And I think I was able to go back
and find it in a magazine.
And I think the list price,
and don't quote me on this,
was about $6,000 for a bloody,
I think it's $750 megahertz one.
A lot of money.
Oh, yeah.
Consider what you're going to buy now for, you know,
what, $6, or $700.
But anyway, yeah, so this,
this would be definitely worth a listen.
And I'm going to bookmark it right now.
It's going to be,
it'd be too hard to put all these links
into the show notes.
So I'm just going to...
We'll just put a link to your site.
Yeah.
You know, because that's all.
They're all there.
And it's really well organized.
Yeah, but looking to this retro bits,
I mean, it brings up a lot of memories.
That was my first computer with the Apple II.
I started off with the old Omega.
512, I think, a lot of this.
Yeah, I never had one of those.
I've seen them in, you know,
when we go to the mall,
I would see them sitting there.
And it looked like nice machines.
I think for the day, they were,
because they actually had, I think,
and they ain't quite me on this either.
But I think they had four CPUs.
You know, back when the,
I think it was the 286 computer was around,
or whatever they called it.
You know, it didn't even have a Maths K-Processor.
The Omega had a dedicated graphics chip.
It had a dedicated sound chip.
The...
I can't think of what the other two were.
And they were called female names,
from what I remember, as Cade names.
But anyway, we might do a bit of research,
and we could always do a bit of a history on the computer.
Oh, yeah.
K-P-R one day, you know?
Because that's something that would be interesting to research, wouldn't it?
Now, just going back here,
at the beginning of the show,
I mentioned some of the other things.
I don't listen to music,
but I listen to audio books.
And it's www.pottyabooks.com.
P-A-D-I-O-B-O-K-S.
It's a good place if you just want to pick up a book,
if you get a bit sickle listening to podcasts.
Okay, those are all creative comments.
Are...
I'd imagine they are.
All three, right?
I'm pretty sure.
Yeah, they're all three.
Okay.
Yeah.
I'll put that link in the show notes,
since I don't have that one listed, I don't think.
Yeah.
I think, friend, Brother Redd,
put me onto this site.
That star surgeon.
If you like,
it was written in the 1950s, I think,
if I remember correctly.
And it's a good science fiction book.
And, of course, like I mentioned,
also the Seven Sun Trilogies.
And I can't remember who did that at the moment.
Although someone said he's known.
I'm pretty sure our chess
was the person who got me onto that.
But you'll find a lot of good books over there, anyway.
Oh, yeah.
If I didn't have all these links,
podcast, or listen to it,
I'd probably go over there and listen, you know,
download a book.
Yeah.
I can't remember the site now,
but you found those ones
that were readings of the old...
Call me books like the Cowboy...
Oh, the Loan Rangers?
Yeah, stuff like that.
I'll listen to a few of them.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure.
And that's...
They were classics.
Someone reading all the old.
Because I remember,
not that I was into them so much.
And when I say comic books,
I'm not talking about superhero books.
I'm talking about the old...
The old Cowboy, you know,
Sheriff, and all that sort of comic books
that my father used to have,
when I used to say my grandmother's house,
she had them all still up in the what's the name.
In the cupboard that my dad used to read,
and that's what you found
was virtually all empty and read to you.
Oh, yeah.
Really good.
Those are worth some money.
She still has them.
Yeah, I'm sure they're still up there.
I haven't been up there in years.
Well, we covered quite a bit.
You wonder what you think you want to call our name?
Yeah, I think so.
I'm sure that the match people
would have heard of a lot of these,
but certainly get over to MonsterBee.org.
Because you'll be quite surprised.
There's a hell of a lot there that...
Even I haven't even heard of.
I don't even throw a Dan's link in here too.
The LennoxLink.net.
He's got a bunch of podcasts too listed
with their feeds.
Yeah, that's that's a good side off
and they're just to see if there's any new ones
that I've been missing.
But I'm pretty sure the Lennox cranks
that he has listed on here has the wrong feed.
We better get on to it.
I think I sent him an email about it.
He doesn't reply though.
Nope, he doesn't.
I did it.
Yeah.
Thanks, Dan.
All right.
Well, thanks for listening everyone.
Yeah, and we hope to do another HPR
in the not-to-distance future.
We might even try and make this a regular thing.
So if anybody wants to contact us,
my email address is MonsterBee at LennoxCrank.info
and...
Play to 64 at LennoxCrank.info
and you can always find us in either the
lot of Lennox links
or LennoxCrank
or LennoxBasement
on our seed channels.
All right.
Well, good night everyone.
Yep, good night and thanks for listening.
Thank you for listening to H such a public radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net.
She'll head on over to C-A-R-O-D-E-T
for all of her TV.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
