Episode: 99
Title: HPR0099: Tech Music: Blackhat Life
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0099/hpr0099.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 11:28:00

---

.
Through the switches and into your keyboard, across the ppx sitting in to your server, I know
every corporate security game, to get in a social engineer my way forwarding traffic
from every machine, this black hat's got his eyes on everything, voiceless top 3 SSL
Apache has worked keys and a fake photo ID, taking down your firewall, break by break,
and coming out, going sniff, sniff, sniff, my focus on your Illian is gonna make my day,
your misconfigured server's gonna be my slave, so black hat life will live in every day,
it's a black hat life in which we create, cause nothing else is worth living each day,
it's a black hat life in which we create,
credentials are a given, and they're given to me,
we social engineers give us what we think it needs,
like I look at unlearn everything I know,
my friends are weird, seeing empty LA radio, credentials are a given,
and they're given to me, when I saw your password, I felt that she was funny,
I got it with me, and before I run these commits, it feels so good to have this power in my hands,
black hat life in every day, it's a black hat life in which we create,
it's nothing else is worth living each day, it's a black hat life in which we create,
Now now now now
Now now now...
I have long hand I go to the WhatsApp, I lay up mad skills and pretend I was like
what front of my friends
Before I walk away the girl says, hey wait, maybe one night we can go out on a late
One more number to add to my list,
and it's co-operation, secur見 full shitting her ride suit
in the elevator, guess what
What? You have a dress like a janitor?
This is mine!
These are my server rules!
Like each and every one of you!
You know I'm going our groups!
Dress like a janitor!
I do this shit in person!
Open every door so I can get back in!
It's a black cat life with every day!
It's a black cat life through which we create!
There's nothing else that's worth living each day!
It's a black cat life through which we create!
It's a black cat life through living every day!
It's a black cat life through which we create!
There's nothing else that's worth living each day!
It's a black cat life through which we create!
Thank you for listening to Haftler Public Radio!
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net
She'll head on over to C-A-R-O-D-E-T for all of her TV!
Thank you for watching!
Thank you for watching!
