Episode: 25
Title: HPR0025: Social Network Aggregation
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0025/hpr0025.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 10:26:41

---

music
Good afternoon, evening, morning, day, whatever it is.
This is Peter from the Fresh Ubuntu podcast, and for a bit of a change of pace, I am joined
by my co-host, Harlem.
How are you doing, Harlem?
Great.
How are you doing, Peter?
Things are doing just fine over here on the side, so.
And you?
I cannot complain.
I can't complain.
I could complain, but no one ever listens when I do, so I've stopped.
Right.
So today, we are going to be talking about something not directly Ubuntu related, as
our regular listeners may be expecting.
We are going to talk a little bit today about OpenID and the practical use of OpenID in
social networking.
One of the things that comes up a lot in our podcast is social networks and our Twitter
accounts and things like that, so we're going to tie in a little bit of OpenID with
that.
So the first thing that we want to talk about is OpenID, and exactly what is OpenID.
I'm going to give you just a very, very brief intro to OpenID.
If you want to find out more, there's more info than you can shake a stick at available
at OpenID.net.
So first off, we should cover briefly what OpenID is.
And basically, OpenID, I describe it as a distributed authentication mechanism.
What it lets you do is you have yourself a username and a password, if you will, a login,
with a specific OpenID provider.
Then when you want to log on to another service somewhere else, for instance, email or some
sort of account, you could imagine online banking or anything.
I don't know.
That may not be a great example just yet until people start to trust OpenID a little more.
But the idea is that to log in, you no longer have to remember different user names and
passwords for every site that you've visited, assuming that the site that you're visiting
and trying to log in to supports OpenID.
And that can be your single, you can have an OpenID as your single point of login.
So you only need to log into one place, but you can log into many sites with that single
login.
It's pretty cool.
Now the way it gets kind of confusing in some of the details, so I'm not going to go
into those if you're really, you know, tech savvy and you want to know how OpenID works,
check out OpenID.net and they've got all sorts of information there.
But basically the gist of it is, again, you're going to log in to an OpenID provider's website.
And once you're logged in there and authenticated, you can use that as a proxy login for somebody
else.
Alright, so first thing we want to do is we're going to get ourselves a couple of OpenID
accounts.
Now I have a couple of OpenIDs and I got one through an OpenID provider called idproxy.net.
And I chose them because they had an interesting feature, whereas they use your Yahoo login to
validate your OpenID login.
So I chose them first because when I first went to login, I was following a tutorial and
the example they gave used idproxy.net.
And since I already had a Yahoo account, I said, well, this is pretty cool.
I'll just use that.
Turns out it's a little more complicated than I was expecting.
It adds an extra step and I decided, you know, I'm just not going to do that right now.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to get myself a new OpenID.
And this time I'm going to use my id.net.
That's nyid.net.
And Harlem, you got yourself an OpenID.
Where did you get yours?
So, well, I got mine at Vox and there are several reasons why I have that one.
And we do this later on with Twitter feed.
It allows you to work with several types of OpenID and OpenID.net will allow you to use
your WordPress.com name or your Vox name, Technoroddy, for instance, and even AOL.
So you may already have an OpenID, you know, considering if you're using any of these
services already and that is AOL, live-door, live-journal, smug-mug, orange, Technoroddy,
box, or WordPress.com.
So check that first.
Very good point.
Very good point.
I meant to cover on that.
I'm glad you brought that up.
Yeah, if I, for instance, I have an OpenID because I have a WordPress.com account, although
I don't use it for anything right now.
And I also have an AOL instant messenger account.
So both of those can be used as OpenIDs.
But for this purpose, I'm going to assume that you don't already have an OpenID and go
ahead and create an account.
But if you do have an AOL instant messenger account, then you can go ahead and use that,
for instance, as your OpenID.
If you want to find out how to do that, I'll put a link in the show notes to a couple
of examples.
But we're going to sign up and we're going to say, you know, you're starting from scratch,
you don't have an OpenID, where do you go to get one?
And the first place where I started was at OpenID.net and I did a little bit of reading
and I clicked on the link of, how do I get one?
And they listed a bunch of OpenID providers.
And like Harlem said, AOL, Live Journal, Technoroddy, Vox, WordPress, those are all OpenID
providers.
But if you don't have accounts with any of those already, you can use something like
claimid.com or MyID.net or MyOpenID.com.
And we're going to choose MyID.net.
Why?
Because it has the shortest URL in the list.
So that's why I'm choosing that.
That's the only reason.
Less typing.
You know?
Less typing.
There you go.
Of course, I had to mess everything up by choosing a user name of Nikolitis, which is
like longer than MyID.net anyway.
So I just doubled the length.
I could have chosen something shorter.
But anyway.
So I went, yes, we do, we do digress often and early.
But anyway, we're going to OpenID, sorry, MyID.net.
And I'm going to click on the Create My ID link.
So when I'm there, I'm prompted for a user ID, a password.
I confirm my password and my email address.
I punch in, fill in all those fields, agree that I have read the terms of service, which
I strongly encourage I ruin to do, read through those terms of service before you agree
to them, because you never really know what you're agreeing to.
We can read it right now for you.
We could, but that would be boring.
That would just suck.
That would, but anyway.
So once you've got your OpenID, now the question is, what do you do with it?
And we're going to use this as an example.
What we're going to do with our OpenID, in this case, is we are going to use it to aggregate
our social networking information.
Harlan, give me the idea of what that means.
Well, I believe what you're talking about is that if you belong to several social networks,
such as Twitter or Pounds, Haiku or Jaiku, whatever they call it, even dig, you might want
to aggregate all those things into one feed so that they show up into all your feeds.
Is that what you're talking about?
You read my mind.
Wow.
I'm good.
Yeah.
That or you read the email I sent you earlier.
Yeah, that's what it was.
It might have been.
Good email, by the way.
All right.
Hey, thanks.
All right.
So the problem what we have is, Harlan and I, we both have accounts on Facebook, Twitter,
Jaiku, Pounce, right?
We've got all of these and the thing that we find every time we join a new social network
is we've got to recreate all of our friends lists and then we've got to, you know, update
multiple sources and it just becomes a hassle.
Well, one way to fix that is to use the features that are provided by your social networking
tools to keep your stuff in sync.
Now, Twitter will publish its own, all of its information as an RSS feed and that's pretty
handy.
Now, out of the box, by default, Twitter does not provide a method to put stuff in to
your Twitter account.
But there is a third party service called Twitter feed, which will do just that.
So one way we can take our social networking info and aggregate it all into Twitter is
by using Twitter feed.
Now, here's the catch.
To get a Twitter feed account, you need to log in via an open ID.
So that's where we're starting with the open ID.
It's all coming together now.
It's all comes together.
It's like a plan and I love it when a plan comes together.
So what we're going to do in this example is we're going to do our best to aggregate
JICOO information, Pounce, Facebook status updates, Twitter, and what else was there?
That'll probably be enough because we can do it with a few of these.
You can figure out the rest and this example should get you in the right direction.
So first starters, if we're going to use this tool, Twitter thing, you need to have
a Twitter account, right?
And that's really easy to get.
If you want to have a Twitter account, just head on over to Twitter.com.
If you don't know what Twitter is, then you've probably been living in a cave for the last
couple of years.
I recommend you just go to Twitter.com and check it out.
You're probably going to have the first reaction you might have is either going to be, wow,
that's really, really cool or why the heck would I want to be telling people like, you
know, what I'm having for lunch or something to that effect?
That was my first reaction, but then I switched over to the second, you know, oh, and that's
really cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It brings out the first grader in you.
Exactly.
Exactly.
It brings out the first grader in you.
But the thing is, if you don't feel that way, then you probably want to stop listening right
around now, or maybe, you know, about five, ten minutes ago when we started.
Or take your iPod and put it underneath the car and run over it several times.
I don't know if I'd go that far, but anyway.
So we're going to assume that you have a Twitter account and that you know what its username
and password is.
So then we're going to head on over to our, let's see, how about Pounce?
I have a Pounce account, which I want to aggregate into my Twitter feed.
And if I go to Pounce.com slash Nikolitis, in my case, slash public, at the top of that
page, you'll see the little RSS icon.
And it actually links to Pounce.com slash feeds slash public slash Nikolitis, or your username
in this case.
So if I wanted to look at Harlem's feeds, for instance, I can do that by going to Pounce.com
slash feeds slash public slash.
Harlem, what's your username on Pounce?
Fresh Ubuntu.
Fresh Ubuntu.
All right.
So I'm going to punch that in.
And sure enough, I see your public notes.
Now note that this only has your public stuff.
So messages that you just send to your friends and things will not show up here.
But that's the kind of stuff that you want to have if you're going to be pushing it all
over the place.
You don't necessarily want to have your private information going all over the place.
So we need to know where that feed is coming from.
So that's part one, or maybe that's part five at this point.
I've kind of lost track.
But the next part I know is we're going to head on over to twitterfeed.com, and we're
going to sign up for Twitter feed account, all right.
So when you hit twitterfeed.com, you click on the log in or register button.
Now Harlem, do you have a Twitter feed account yet?
I have.
Yes, I do.
You do.
Oh, you beat me to it.
I didn't think you did already.
Well, that's okay.
It's easy to get one if you don't.
That's as simple as putting your open ID into the box there and pressing log in.
You do.
That's exactly it.
So the log in screen, you'll notice for Twitter feed.
The log in screen is not asking you for a username and password.
It's asking for your open ID.
So I'm going to use my existing open ID, which is nickelitis.idproxy.net.
And I'm going to sign in using that.
So here I go, I'm signing in, I punch in the address, hey, look at this.
You're logged in, hooray, and then it redirects me back to Twitter feed.
I get to the log in page from my open ID provider, and I punch in that log in information.
Agree to the terms of service because I've never logged in before.
And then once that's done, I get prompted.
And my open ID provider said, hey, this Twitter feed thing wants to authenticate you.
Do you want to do that?
And I say, yes.
I get redirected back to twitterfeed.com.
And with this, you have logged in as nickelitis.myid.net.
Welcome.
Glad you could make it.
Well, thank you, Twitter feed.
I'm glad to be here.
Are you following along, Harlan?
Is this working for you too?
I am following along.
Yep.
Beautiful.
Welcome to Twitter feed.
I'm going to click on the go to my Twitter feeds or create one link.
Now since I've already gotten an account with these guys, I have a bunch of feeds here.
But we're going to just add one or take one out or whatever and just fiddle around with
this.
And the end goal is here is we're using Twitter to basically be the catch all.
So in my case, Twitter is going to catch all my other updates and stuff, all my other
social networking content.
So the first thing we need to do is we need to create a new Twitter feed.
So if I click on the little plus sign to create a, or next to the plus sign, I click on create
new Twitter feed, I get a new screen.
And it tells me to enter in my Twitter name or password for authentication.
Now this is very important.
You have to understand that we are giving our Twitter login to this company, Twitter
feed, which has nothing to do with Twitter.
There's no real affiliation between these two services, okay?
So you have to understand that by using this service, you are giving some other fairly
close to complete stranger your Twitter login.
So understand that.
I've taken this calculated step.
I understand that I'm giving somebody else my Twitter login.
And I'm trusting that they're not going to abuse it and that they're not going to let
my identity and my Twitter feed fall into someone else's hands.
But that's a very important thing.
You don't want to just, you know, willy-nilly go out giving your user names and passwords.
But in this case, it's a requirement because Twitter doesn't have any other way to import
RSS feeds into your Twitter feed.
So I'm going to punch in my username, my Twitter username, and my Twitter password.
And I'm not going to tell you what those are right now.
The next thing I'm asked for is my RSS feed URL.
Now remember that we were looking at Harlem's Pounce profile.
And what I'm going to do as a test is Harlem, I'm going to take your public Pounce notes
and I'm going to stuff them into my Twitter feed.
So basically what I'm doing is I'm cheating.
I am adding free content to my Twitter feeds without having to do anything.
It's kind of like me getting credit for the work you're doing.
What do you think of that?
Nah, hey, no problem.
Not a problem to me.
Hey, it's open source, right?
Open source, we're over source.
Exactly.
So the RSS feed URL is the next thing it asks for.
So I'm going to add Harlem's feed into mine.
And the address is http colon slash slash pounce.com slash feeds slash public slash fresh Ubuntu.
And I'm going to click the link at the right that says test RSS feed.
And it says feed was parsed successfully.
That's good.
That means that, hey, we've got it and we can read that RSS feed.
Now, Twitter feed gives you an option how often you want to update this.
The default is every hour.
I usually like to crank that down a little bit every 30 minutes.
And it will let you post one, two, three, four, or five updates at a time.
So if Harlem goes in and just starts posting public pounce updates like crazy, I may not
catch them all.
I may only catch up to 10 every hour.
But that's generally sufficient because Harlem doesn't usually post a lot.
So to his pounce public notes, certainly not more than 10 an hour, right?
No, no way.
Maybe.
Yeah, not at all.
10 a month.
Exactly.
So we're good, we're good.
So it asks you then, the next thing is, do you want to include the title and the description
or just the title or just the description?
Now this generally applies to blogs because if you want to include a blog post, it may
have in the RSS fields, it may have a title and a description.
Many times those are the same thing so you don't want to include them both.
Now for a pounce feed, I am going to just put the description only.
And there's also an option to prefix each tweet with a maximum of 20 characters.
So what that is is for instance, when I subscribe to my blog, I prefix everything with the word
blog.
And that tells people who are looking at my Twitter feed that, hey, this is a new blog
post from Peter.
And that way the link that they get will, you know, it can take you right to a blog post
and you kind of know what you're getting in advance.
So that's why I put that there.
There's another option, a little checkbox to include an item link.
And what that does is basically, if you leave that out, it's not going to have a link to
the blog.
So what that would do in this case is I would, if I unchecked it, I would tell people,
hey, I just posted to my blog, but I wouldn't give them a link to it, which is not very
user friendly.
So I'm going to leave that checked.
But in this case, since I'm having Harlem's, you know, Pounce Updates, I'm going to prefix
it with Harlem's Pounce.
And that way everything that we suck in from Harlem's Pounce feed will show up as Harlem's
Pounce.
So people will know that, you know, maybe they'll know they'll get the idea anyway that
Harlem's, this is Harlem's content, not mine.
Once I'm done, I'm going to click the Create button and bam, I have a new feed in my Twitter
feed.
So now all I need to do is I need to have Harlem go ahead and post a public note in Pounce.
You think you can do that for everybody?
Okay.
I'll go to Pounce right now, hold on one second.
Do, do, do, do, we need some music for this section too, you know?
That would be awesome.
You got anything you can recommend?
Maybe something over the Iota promo net or something?
Oh, fine, something.
Okay.
Something right now, I'm going to say hello, Twitter feed.
Now here's the thing.
There could be some delays in this.
Now we don't know for instance how long it takes for a Pounce feed, you know, to, or
a Pounce post to show up in your RSS feed.
We also don't know exactly when Twitter feed is going to be checking the post.
And we also don't know when Twitter might just be down, you know, and not receive the
post.
So there's a lot of variables here.
Obviously, you don't want to be using this for any sort of, you know, mission critical
kind of thing, you know, it's, it's all beta in the spirit of web 2.0.
But it's cool nonetheless.
So now that Harlem has posted it, some time is going to elapse and that message is
going to show up.
Now I got the email notification that you posted, hello, Twitter feed.
But I'm not seeing it in your public notes just yet.
Oh, there it is.
On Twitter.
So I'm going to take long at all.
Not on Twitter, but I see it in your RSS.
Oh, sweet.
So.
So sometime mail apps, we don't really know how long again, it could be up to 30 minutes
before Twitter feed checks your Twitter post or your Pounce feed and sticks it into my
Twitter feed.
So while we're waiting for that, let's move on.
And when are we going to add our blogs into my Twitter feed while we're at it?
Now I happen to know my blogs RSS feed and the way I find that is I just went to my own
blog.
I visited that and I just looked at the RSS links and you can do this with any RSS feed.
Like if you see that little RSS icon, the little thing that looks like little radio waves,
broadcasting, little orange icon, if you just mouse over that, you can see what the URL
is.
And if you right click on it in most platforms or control click on a Mac, you can generally
copy that link to the clipboard and then paste it in.
Now I know that my blogs URL is blog.nicolitis.com slash question mark feed equals RSS2.
So I'm going to go to my blog, I right click on that and I copy it to the clipboard.
Back at my Twitter feed, I'm going to go in and I'm going to click again to create a
new Twitter feed and I'm going to once again enter my Twitter name and password.
And I'm going to paste in the RSS feed URL which again was blog.nicolitis.com, etc, etc.
I'm going to update every hour because I generally don't blog more than once an hour and
I'm going to leave everything else pretty much the same except I'm going to prefix each
tweet with the word blog B-L-O-G.
And that way again, it will tell everybody that hey, I just blogged something and I'm
going to leave the link in there so that people get the idea.
So now I'm capturing Twitter's, sorry, Harlem's Pounces and my blogs into my Twitter feed.
That's all well and good but you know what, I'm probably not going to leave Harlem's stuff
in there.
I'm going to end up and put my own pound stuff.
Now if I wanted to do the same thing with JaiKu, I can.
So I'm going to head on over to my JaiKu account which is nicolitis.jaiKu.com.
Punch that in and I'm just going to look around on that page for some RSS links.
I'm looking, I'm looking and at the bottom of the page I see an RSS link.
It says the latest from Nicolitis parentheses RSS.
So I'm going to right click on that, I'm going to copy that link and I'm going to head
back over to Twitter feed and I'm going to click to create a new Twitter feed.
So I click on that and then now here's the thing, here's the problem though, I just realize
I'm kind of going backwards because if I have my pounces going in to JaiKu and my JaiKu
or my JaiKu is going into Twitter, that means I have to post in two locations.
So I don't really want to do that, do I?
Nope.
No, no, I don't.
Okay, take that back, I'm not going to do that, darn, I'm going to have to edit the heck
out of this thing or not.
Hey, you just post it, I would just post it, see what happens, right?
So more than likely what I think I would rather do in JaiKu is since JaiKu does provide
the ability to subscribe to something, to another feed, I'm going to do that instead.
So if I go to my JaiKu account and I sign in, what I am doing now, a boom, and if I don't
have a JaiKu account, it's easy, you go to JaiKu.com and just click the link to create
yourself an account, it's just like every else, you just need to use your name, your password
that you're going to pick and any of this.
When I go into, I log into my JaiKu account and I click settings, there is an option there
which says web feeds and you can click on manage your web feeds.
Now what you can do is says add more, you can add a blog, add photos, add bookmarks, add
another atom or RSS feed.
The simplest thing is if you know your RSS feed, you just click on that link.
You can add a blog, like if it knows about WordPress or blogger or something, you can use
that link, but those all have RSS feeds anyway, so I'm just going to use that.
So I go ahead and I click on add another RSS feeds and it's saying, you know, add your
present stream, blah, blah, blah, basically it's adding for an RSS street.
I'm going to go back and grab my pounce updates again, copy that URL and paste it into
the page address and then I click find feeds, it looks at it, thanks for a bit and JaiKu
placed a little note on the screen and says it may take a little while to find or fetch
this feed.
Please be patient.
So it thinks and it thinks and it thinks some more and it says, whoa, who turned up
the heat?
Servers are running a bit hot right now, please try again in a couple of minutes.
Yeah, how web 2.0 is that, huh?
So it's not just Twitter that's having problems all the time too.
But as the more I think about it actually, it probably makes more sense for JaiKu to
subscribe to my Twitter, because if I'm going to be using Twitter feed to stuff everything
into that, then I don't want to have to re-subscribe to all those things again with JaiKu
when all I need to do is really subscribe to Twitter.
So if you visualize this, Twitter itself via Twitter feed is like this big funnel and
everything that I can subscribe to, I'm going to subscribe to in Twitter and then JaiKu
is going to be underneath that funnel picking up whatever comes out of Twitter.
Does that make sense?
That does make sense.
Barely.
Just barely though.
Barely.
Just barely makes sense.
So the question is, what is my RSS feed for Twitter?
Well, that's pretty easy.
If I log into my Twitter account, I just go there, and just like in JaiKu, it scroll down
to the bottom of the page, and there's a link right there that says RSS, and I'm just
going to right click on that, copy that link location, and then go back to JaiKu and paste
in the RSS feed.
I'm clicking on find feeds, and then I'm going to wait, and assuming that the JaiKu servers
aren't having a meltdown right now, then you know, I'm going to get some good stuff.
And if they are, well, so much for that idea.
So what we've managed to do is we've created an open, an open ID.
We took our Pounce notifications and a blog, and we were able to use Twitter feed to put
them into our Twitter feed for lack of a better term.
And we then in turn took our Twitter feed and stuff that into our JaiKu feeds.
So in the end, if anybody wants to follow you, basically, regardless of whether they're
following you on Pounce or Twitter or on JaiKu, then they're all going to get the same
stuff.
And we can take this one step further as Harlem, you and I, we both have Facebook accounts,
right?
Right.
Although I don't use mine for much anymore.
Me either.
Yeah.
I was just reading an article in the register this week, which is basically saying that people
are getting bored with social networking.
Yeah.
I read that too.
Thirty something drop in subscribership or traffic and it's happening for everybody.
Yep.
And it happens.
Well, if you want to sync your Twitter stuff, then there's a good little application I've
found on Facebook.
It's called Twitter sync.
If you just look for that under edit or add applications, like Twitter feed, it will ask
for your Twitter name and password.
And the reason, well, basically what they need that for is because they're pulling and
pushing info into and out of your Facebook account.
So I used a couple of other Twitter apps.
This is the best one that I've found.
And the reason I like this one is it goes in both directions.
So I can either update my status in Facebook or I can make a post in Twitter and it goes
both directions.
So that's pretty cool.
It synchronizes your status, basically.
So if I do a Twitter, it shows up in Facebook and if I update my Facebook status, it shows
up as what I'm doing in Twitter.
Sweet.
With that, I think we've pretty much come full circle, don't you think, Alan?
I think so too.
Although you're going to have to play around with this for a little bit because it's, you
can get really caught up in the details.
How is my height to feed, going to get my Twitter feed and what about my pounce?
And so sit down with a pen and a piece of paper and diagram this all out so you don't
get confused.
Absolutely.
And I will post a link in the show notes also.
You can see where I entitled a blog post a while ago.
It was titled, oh, what a tangled web we weave when first we practice social networking.
And I actually made a little mind map which includes my Twitter feed, my blog, my Google
Reader shared items, my Facebook status updates, my delicious bookmarks, my jikos and my
pounces and I put all those things together.
And you can add anything else, like if you have an RSS feed for your Flickr album when
you post new Flickr updates, you can post that there.
You can do all sorts of things and it's really kind of cool.
If you choose to do so, you can experiment with a lot of other really neat RSS and Web
2 tools out there.
Yahoo Pipes, for instance, is a really great, easy and intuitive, powerful way to manage
multiple RSS feeds.
So you can use that to aggregate things and you can improve, include program logic right
in just with a drag and drop interface.
There's so many cool neat things out there that you can fiddle with.
We can't even begin to cover them all.
But at least today we've exposed you to Open ID, Twitter, Jiku, Pounce, Twitter feeds,
RSS.
I don't know about you, man, but I think my brain is full.
How are you feeling?
Oh, man.
I, again, I have to figure this all out, but at least I got it up and running and I can
play around with it.
I can add stuff to my Twitter feed.
Now this is also, I just wanted to ask you a question.
This is only if you want to get everything on Twitter.
Is that correct?
This doesn't work the other way around.
Twitter?
Well, if you want to put like your Twitter somewhere else?
Yeah, like if you want to Twitter into Pounce, for instance.
No, I don't think Pounce has any way to put anything into it.
Unless things have changed recently.
Let me double-check here.
Well, you probably have to hack their API for that.
Yeah, when I did this, go ahead.
Sorry, when I did this first, this was several months ago.
Pounce did not have any way to import.
It did not have a way to import RSS feeds.
And that's why the tutorial that I originally followed started with Pounce.
So basically, all of your Pounce's Twitters, et cetera, would originate from Pounce.
And that was okay, but after a while, I just, I got kind of tired of the Pounce interface
and I just found Twitters to be easier, more friendly, I don't know why, but I stuck
with Twitter.
Now on Pounce, you do have the option of putting your profiles on your home page on the
right sidebar.
And so you put your Facebook profile, your Twitter profile, even your Skype name and
your blog on the right sidebar.
So, you know, yeah, there's a lot, they, they, yeah, Pounce is aware of like, I don't
know, 20 or so, maybe more different social networks, and they just have all kinds.
But what all that does is that provides you a link.
It doesn't actually, it doesn't, you know, add content from those websites.
Right, exactly.
But it does, you know, it, it takes away, it gives away for you to, you know, give
people another way to contact you.
So, it shows him, but it doesn't actually aggregate all the information that we did.
So, yep, good example now.
So with that, I think we're going to wrap this up.
Just a reminder that every week, Harlem and I, we do the Fresh Ubuntu podcast, Ubuntu
Linux, and Ubuntu Linux centric podcast, where we cover all things Ubuntu and anything,
you know, that's between five or six degrees of separation away from Ubuntu or John
O'Bacon, as the case may be.
That's right.
If you want to follow me on Twitter, I can be found at Twitter.com slash Nikolitis.
And my blog is at blog.nicolitis.com.
And if you have a hard time spelling either of those, I don't blame you for a minute.
You can just go to pn72.com and you will find me there.
Harlem, what about you?
And you can find me on my Twitter account at Twitter.com slash Harlem, H-A-R-L-E-M.
Also, I have a, again, Fresh Ubuntu.org, which is our main website for the podcast and
feel free to listen in every now and again, if you wish.
And if you are in Ubuntu, Efficient Auto, or whatever, you can subscribe to the podcast
at feeds.feedburner.com slash Fresh Ubuntu, and that's it.
Until next time, have a great day and remember to hack your world.
That's right.
Bye-bye.
Thank you for listening to Hack Republic Radio.
H-B-R is sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over to C-A-R-O dot N-E-T for all of us in need.
Bye-bye.
