Episode: 735
Title: HPR0735: Interview with Dave Yates about SELF 2011
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0735/hpr0735.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 01:43:17

---

I'd like to make a request for some shows.
We've gone down from my healthy having two weeks of shows in the queue to having nothing
in the queue.
So if you've been teaching on the edge about recording a show now will be an excellent
time to do that.
If you're a regular host and have a few shows in the pipeline it would be great if you could
send them on in.
And with that I'll turn you over to today's episode.
Good evening ladies and gentlemen my name is Canfala and you're listening to Hacker
Public Radio.
Today we have a very interesting interview.
One of our own has been interviewed, the very good community friend, Mr. Dave S. Yeats.
How are you doing Dave?
Doing great, Can.
How are you?
Not too bad, not too bad.
So you're enjoying Sunday Day there in South Carolina I guess.
Yes, it's sunny 92 degree day.
Okay.
No idea what that is in South Korea.
It's a little less than 36 probably right around there.
My God.
That is hot.
Yeah, I wanted to have you on today and you were gracious enough to come on to give us
a little rundown on the Southeast Linux Fest.
So first of all, I want to could you tell us Dave what the South East Linux Fest
is?
The Southeast Linux Fest is a community event modeled after the Ohio Linux Fest to a
large degree and it is an event for the community.
It's more or less run by the community.
There's a small group of organizers that really just lines up a venue and invite speakers
and the rest of it happens when people show up.
But it is a I guess part educational conference and other part is just a bunch of geeks getting
together for the weekend and this celebrate and talk about and just be together around
the Linux and free and open source software world I guess.
Yeah, cool.
What is the catchment area for this you know, for this Fest and over here we in Europe,
we seem to think of the US as just one, you know, one geographical country.
So I'm kind of wondering where your catchment area is.
We're in the Southeast, which is I guess from Florida to Virginia to maybe as far west as Texas.
But we've had this is our third annual Southeast Linux Fest and we've had people as far away as
because Arizona is far north is I guess New York, Michigan maybe.
People come from all over, but we have a large number who come from Florida, Virginia.
I mean, I really don't have a run out of the states that have shown up.
But right now there are several regional conferences in the US as far as Linux Fest go.
And we're wanting to be the one in the Southeast region.
That way, you know, ideally people don't have to drive.
Canter to put up hours to go to, you know, the next Fest.
Yeah.
I was looking very, very tempted to go over and I was looking at prices and it will be prohibitively expensive to go over.
No matter how early I booked.
So unfortunately, I'm going to rely on you or rely on you to to get the recordings of the event out.
It's something that we have made a priority this year.
We, we've done that the first two years last year we didn't do quite as good a job at it.
The first year we had a professional group of people come in and record.
So they gave us what was an essence of finished product.
This year we had to rely on volunteers to do all the recording and volunteer to finish the final product.
So it didn't turn out quite as good last year that the finished product as far as audio and video go.
But we've made that a priority this year.
So we've got our fingers crossed that people won't have to wait as long this coming year for audio and video people that can't attend.
Yeah.
The first year was quite, was quite good.
Obviously.
And what I really enjoyed about the fest is that our good friend Klaatu went around and really gave a lot, got a lot of interviews from around the conference floor in the exhibition area and gave people here on this network.
A good feel about what was going on at the show.
And he gave us a lot of publicity for the people that couldn't attend.
He did his part to advertise us before and after the event. I'm very appreciative of that.
Yeah.
And just putting the word out, if there are, if there are people interested in representing HPR, I want to talk more about that later on at the end of the show.
So the festival itself Dave, when does it run from and to when does it start when you need to get there and when do you need to go home?
If you want to thoroughly enjoy yourself, need to get there on Thursday, June the night and spend the night because the event itself starts on Friday, June the 10th.
Probably around noon.
There are several things going on Friday that they all well, I think that back.
They actually started 9 a.m. Friday.
Ubukan is scheduled to start at 9 a.m. Friday as is the build open source cloud day.
Then we have, I think five speakers starting at noon on Friday and the pre-parties Friday night.
So there's a lot going on Friday.
And if you want to be there for the whole thing, you need to show up on Thursday night.
Okay.
And are you running again, the special offer for hotels or something?
Where you want to be?
Yes.
The Spartanburg Marriott.
There's a link on our web page.
It's south-exlandesfest.org.
Where you can reserve a room.
And the rooms are still $99 a night.
So I think they're normally like 120.
So you should book your room now.
We've had to expand the block.
They reserved the block room as far as they had to get that expanded like three times.
Pretty sure the hotel is close to being sold out as of today.
Oh, very good.
So listen to this.
Pause.
Go book your room and come back to the show.
Excellent.
And then it runs to Saturday, obviously.
And then Sunday, it finishes around 5 o'clock, I see.
Yes.
And Saturday's the main day.
Yeah.
That's when we have the most speaker tracks going on at one time.
And the birds of a feather talk stuff like that.
And Sunday's the last day.
And that's where Ubu Khan resumes.
There's a couple of other affiliate events going on Sunday as well.
But the bulk of, I guess what people think of first, when I think of Linux Fest is the talks.
And we've got talks this year on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, most of them on Saturday.
But we have, I guess, four tracks on Sunday as well.
So one track on Friday, five on Sunday.
And excuse me, five on Saturday and Sunday, yeah, four on Sunday.
And affiliate events as well.
I've got, I've already mentioned build open source crowd.
They've got puppet lab trainings training on Sunday.
Ubu Khan continues on Sunday.
What's Ubu Khan again?
Ubu Khan is, I guess, an Ubuntu specific conference.
Yeah.
So it's, it's really just, I guess, a conference within a conference.
It's a separate track run by an Ubuntu logo or a group of logos where it's all Ubuntu specific content.
And that's, that's just on the Friday and Sunday, I see.
Friday and Sunday and trying to remember where Drupal Camp, Drupal Camp Sunday, at least, I'm thinking it's also
Saturday.
Yeah, I have the schedule here in front of me.
So you've got, you've got a Drupal room, which seems to be showing various different tracks on the Saturday.
You've got Drupal room A, Drupal room B and Drupal room C, which is a Drupal camp.
All sessions listed are in these rooms all day.
It Drupal Camp talks.
So from 9 to 10 is a welcome session.
This is on the Sunday.
And then track one is beginner session one, what is Drupal?
And the other room, it's a content management system for nonprofits.
And then room three has become a coding rock star.
And then from 1130 to 1230 beginning session, then making Drupal admin easier and deploy like pros all on from 1130 to 1230.
1230 to 130 is lunch.
And 130 to 230 is introducing a module development D6 of D7 no idea.
Also creating online community, the open source way, also managing and building sites with drush and drush make.
Then from 245 to 345 Drupal theming introduction.
And a room B is using air gear for Drupal hosting management in room C rapid Drupal development with the features module.
And then the last session on the Sunday on the Drupal on the Drupal track is from 45 introducing introduction to panels and views workbench content management and then in room C getting that information in cold.
Yes, you've just done a much better job of interpreting the schedule than I have Drupal camp looks to be Sunday only.
Yeah.
And it is three tracks.
So the four tracks I mentioned on Sunday, three of those are Drupal camp and there's one Southeast Linux best track Sunday in addition to the puppet lives training in the Ubicon.
Yeah.
Puppet labs training what's all that about.
It's trainings put on by puppet.
I will have to get you more specifics which which I can but I just have to find them.
This is a puppet is the system and automation.
People.
Yes.
I see that it's down here.
You've marked it's a development and aimed at development developers and cis admins.
So that pretty much covers the Sunday.
Yes.
And on the Friday.
So I kind of were jumping from Friday to Sunday here because I wanted to deal with Saturday.
You know, later on after we've covered this.
We you have the Drupal roommate and Drupal room B.
So I guess all the talks on Drupal roommate are on this on the Friday concern Drupal as well.
Do they know they don't.
That's just what we've named the room.
So it's a little confusing.
I guess in that regard.
But Drupal room A and Drupal room B have nothing on Friday have nothing to do with Drupal necessarily.
Okay.
And Friday in Drupal room A we have swimming upstream.
How distributions help open source communities.
And then in Drupal room B is building an open source cloud day and that goes on the whole day.
And then Fedora room is Ubicon.
That's interesting for the.
Ubicon in the Fedora room.
Yeah.
And then the from one 15 to two 15.
We have application development just cloud away.
230 to 330 is leveraging real software to interface with real hardware real PLCs.
That would be an interesting talk at 345 to 445 graduating to the GUI.
So Pi GTK for beginners and 5 to 6 is humanitization of loss saving the world one bit at the time.
So that covers Friday that covers Sunday.
And so on Friday evening you're going to have a some sort of pre-party is that correct?
Yes.
That's traditionally the smaller of the two parties.
But we're hoping having speakers on Friday that that event itself won't be that small this year.
It's at the hotel bar as with the I guess the after party, which is really.
Saturday night.
So it's not really an after party, but it's like a mid party, but it's still got after party.
Yeah, it's just it's Friday night.
The pre party is in the in the bar.
Okay, cool.
So I'm looking at the schedule here that's printed off and I must say it's very, very clear.
You have taken the time to put a sort of key here.
So you've got topic keys divided up into community novice development system in education and desktop.
So you can kind of tell it advance.
You know what topics where you should be going.
I think a lot of the issues I've had with, especially with a venue that's run on five tracks.
You know, trying to pick up which one you should go to.
I think that's a brilliant idea.
Where did you come up with that?
The trial and error actually.
And I think Jeremy Sands or speaker coordinator came up with that idea is something that we've gotten feedback on the last two years.
Well, I guess last year, specifically last year, we had even more speakers.
And it was a little overwhelming.
And the schedule wasn't anywhere as easily interpreted as this year is.
So there was a lot of confusing confusion with conference goers is to.
The talks were not what they were, but which ones they should attend.
There was so many choices.
So we tried to.
Introduce a level of structure to the, to the toss.
We don't really have.
Speaker tracks where, you know, this room is these kind of talks all day.
And this is these kind of talks we've, but we tried to.
Categorize who the talk would most appeal to.
Yeah.
Excellent.
And I see also you're leaving a good amount of time to get between the rooms.
Are the rooms physically in the same place or do you have to walk far to get from one session to the next?
This is, this is all like a hotel conference room, a conference center.
So all the rooms are really close together.
One of the reasons we introduced more time to get between them is last year with the number of speakers we had.
The expo floor was, you know, we had so many choices as far as speakers go that the expo floor was empty a lot.
And there was only like 10 minutes between talk.
So we, we've tried to.
Quick that a little bit to make it a little better for everybody.
Okay.
Can you tell us a little bit about the expo floor?
Who's, what's the setup?
What can I expect?
Well, the expo floor is going to be.
It's right outside all these speaker rooms.
So it's in the middle of it all.
I think we have 30 or so.
I'm trying to find the latest version of that document.
Give me one second.
We've got 30 or so exhibitors.
Of course, our major sponsors will be there.
Give me one.
No problem.
I'll tell you what I'll do.
I'll just go through the Saturday morning.
Okay.
While you're looking that up, I'll go through the timetable.
Okay.
There are.
And this is all in a PDF document, folks.
If you've got it in front of you.
There are one, two, three, four, five rooms in the trooper room.
C E S M room, Google room and Lindow room.
There's going to be a keynote from nine to 10 on free software and the creation of jobs given by John Maddox.
And that's for community, novice, education and cis admins.
But I kind of guess, really, from I've heard just some of John Maddox calls talks online.
And I have not the opportunity to see him in person, but I've never heard anybody say anything but good things about his speech.
So following that from 10, 10, 15 to 11, 15.
10, 15 to 11, 15 in the trooper room is introduction to pop it.
And then also asterix S C F, the future of open source communications.
Also post fix and post screen stopping spam safely.
Stopping spam safely.
Future pick to pick.
And then Linux.
Why so many people still don't know what exists.
And finally, digital justice, how technology and free software can help close the digital divide.
So we've got something for cis admins, something for development, cis admins, developer, cis admins, something for the novice and something for the community.
So there's also a nice breakdown there that does not that much overlap.
Who did they schedule in planning for you?
Jeremy Sanser speaker coordinator, but we as a group agreed on who is going to do the speaking.
You know, out of the talk submitted, but he put it together and you know with our critique.
The final product was was his doing with with our our vote on the matter, I guess.
But we this like you said, there's the PDF version of the schedule is downloadable from south explainersfest.org, but Dan Fry from the last link text.
Taking a time to create an Android app called open schedule is in the Android market and all of this is there as well.
That's a really cool app.
It is done is so it's 1115 on Saturday.
I've just left one of the five talks.
I'm out in the hole and who do I see Dave?
Who do you see it is?
Well, first of all, I go.
While you're doing that, I walk over to the hacker public radio stand and the person listening to the show will be there and will be helping you out on the stand.
So we're actually looking for volunteers.
We're going to have a table, hopefully, at the South East Selenix Fest.
And there will be a hacker public radio table.
The public cruncher has a participant pack.
And I've just seen the one I'm going to I'll camp here in the UK.
I'm not here in the UK. I'm in the Netherlands, but we're going over to the UK.
And it is absolutely fantastic.
All you need for to do the stickers.
All you need to print out the booklets and stuff like that.
So we're looking for volunteers.
Obviously, some of the people that have volunteered are also given talks.
So the more people we can have to help out at that table during the day, even if it's only for an hour or whatever, that will help us out a lot.
Okay.
Who you'll see on the expo floor will include hacker public radio, open Sousa, free IT Athens Linux pro magazine, free BSD,
S I O S, size, I think that it's pronounced morning due coffee, dual core, the Linux, like tech show, Linux in the hamstack, slacker media, KDE, green will tech.
That's the local college.
Both Sanders, Slackware, Libre office, the free software foundation, SQ lot in fossil.
P F cents, Ubuntu women in Carolina free PC.
Those are.
In essence, our dot orgs and I use it this time are dot coms or sponsors will include linode.
I teology cloud dot com red hat open source dot com rack space.
TeleG, you can lift this a strict integrals software group.
I think this integral SG.
I may have the SG wrong in Fedora.
That's who will be on the expo floor as of right now.
That that number could increase, but at this late date, they won't make the program guy.
But we still have a few maybe five or six tables left open at this point.
Very nice.
Okay, and after that from 11 30 to 12 30, there will be a case study on crowd sourcing effective.
Crowd sourcing effectively protecting the open source community.
Also as he Linux from your mortals also crash course and open source cloud computing.
Also getting started with Ruby on rails three.
Also the Linux DNA kernel project increasing system performance.
And after that, we have lunch.
And I understand that you're encouraging people to have lunch there in the hotels.
That's still the same this year.
Well, you know, well, yes and no.
I mean, you can if you register as a supporter.
Lunch is included in that price.
I think the supporter package is $65.
You'll get a T shirt and a lunch.
And a couple of drink tickets at each party, I think.
But if you just show up, you know, the events free to attend.
You don't have to register as a supporter.
But if you register as an enthusiast, I think that's what we call it.
Just just show up and not pay a dime other than, you know, whatever you want to spend.
You know, if you want to eat the hotel, that's great.
There's a Spartanburg is.
Is a decent sized town, but the hotel sort of in the middle of town.
There's some good restaurants in Spartanburg.
But you know, if you want to, you know, not miss anything eating at the hotel would probably be the best bet for you.
But, you know, you don't have to.
Okay.
Well, if you did, yeah.
Okay.
We've got like a room, not number of room nights.
We want to meet, you know, as far as, and we've already met that.
But there's a food and beverage quota that we need to need to meet.
But we met it last year.
So I don't think it'd be that big a deal.
I think I got a reputation for encouraging people last year to eat at the hotel because it was our first event at a hotel.
And we were sort of afraid we wouldn't meet that.
I'm not afraid this year.
Okay.
Okay.
After lunch, then from 1.30 to 2.30, there is likewise open across a platform for cross-platform.
Open source remote access policy and products to keep you safe.
Also, how can I contribute to open source?
Also, what education can and can't learn from open source?
And also learning Linux with Linux from scratch by our good friend Dan Washco from TLLTS.
Yes.
No, just about the venue itself.
How far away is it from the airport?
How do people get there?
Is there do they need transport, you know, hire cars, taxis, blah?
The Greenville Spartanburg Airport is, I think, like, 12 miles from the hotel.
So it's, it's real convenient that way.
Spartanburg is between Greenville and Charlotte, off of 85, where the event itself is probably, I don't know, five or six miles off the interstate.
It's not a hard place to get to.
There's, we have a link on our website of the different ways to get there in the map.
So I think it's.
If you click on venue, excuse me, click on travel.
We have a plethora of ways to get there's Amtrak, which is the train is driving directions.
There's a Greyhound bus.
There's a Greyhound bus link.
So it's an easy place to get to.
Yeah.
Okay.
Very good.
And then from 230 to 330.
We have asterisks also introduction to bioinformatics, false and Linux with a side of genetics.
Also implementation of KMS and GM TTM.
I have no idea what that is.
Teaching also we have teaching open source and colleges and universities.
Also we have the Zen of Freenas, given by our also a HPR contributor, Russ Woodman K5 Talks.
So what is KMS and GM and slash TTM on the idea?
No, I don't, but if I were to use the Android app, I could probably find that really quick.
Now that one's over over my head.
It's for developers and desktop and I think this actually goes to show like there's a there seems to be a very good mix for anybody regardless of your level.
You know, if you're in office, you have no need to be concerned at all about about coming into into this exhibition.
And even even in this case between two 45 and three 45.
There's actually nothing marked us as being for the novice, however, that that is an ideal time to go around the exhibition floor.
And you know, while it's while it's quiet, rather than going into into a talk that might be a bit over your head, you have still have the chance to go and talk to people on the on the floor on the exhibition hall.
And there will be a description of these talks and a program guy, but again, where the open schedule app by Dan for I comes in handy.
I've just looked up this talk and realized that I sort of know what GM is, but the goal of this talk is to provide the information.
Create a modern kernel side graphics driver as well as describe how to make and use the most basic level, usually an API.
It's a desktop development talk.
That's that description is right there built into the Android apps. That's a really cool app.
Fantastic. He's done as a, yeah, I've heard from all about that and I've actually got the app on my desktop and it makes me cry or on my phone.
It makes me cry that I just can't go there and be at the be at the event.
So just tell me one of the thing, Dave, is there is a parking available for people and yes, yes.
There's parking at the hotel and I'm pretty sure I don't think there's a gate or anything like that.
Where you have to slide a card so you're not even staying at the hotel. I'm pretty sure you can park there.
There's a parking garage underground. There's parking on the side.
There's parking on the, I'm sure there's parking on the street someplace. It's not, it's probably the tallest building in Spartanburg too, maybe.
So it's not hard to find if you can park even close. So, but I'm pretty sure there's lots of parking at the hotel.
Okay, and then moving on from four o'clock to five o'clock.
We have a communicating with Pearl and all deer, all our deer, oops, excuse me, I'll start again.
Communicating with Pearl and Arduino. That's the first time I actually heard it seen that written down.
Also, introduction to PC, BSD, also heartbeat, a pacemaker for systems and with high cholesterol.
Also, the amateur video editor by Klatu. Also, sorry, the author video editor given by Klatu.
Also, community organizing and free software activism.
Speaking of Klatu, is there going to be a place for him to be able to urban camp while he's down there?
I'm pretty sure there is. I mean that the parking garage is relatively safe.
Actually, I'd very much like to be Klatu and pick up and sit in on a video editing exhibition that our talk that would be very interesting for me.
And then finally, we have the last track before the keynote from 515 to 615.
We have Taste, Grage, or less filling, marketing and open source business.
Followed by also open source development and deployment models. Also fossilized your code. Also demystifying Slackware.
Also advanced regular expression practice.
And I heard in the promo that there was going to be a death rake. Can you tell me a bit about that?
That may have been some exaggeration. And unless Alan Hicks is a heartbeat of pacemaker for systems with high cholesterol includes that or you know ever there may be a buff talk on death rays.
That may have been an attention getter. I'm not sure.
However, you accept no responsibility for anybody who's who's vaporized in the making of the exhibition.
Exactly. We gave Alan Hicks for creative lessons with that promo he did for us. I think he did the whole thing without a script.
He is.
He is very interested. I've actually watched a few of his presentations before.
And just for sheer entertainment value, I would be going to that talk if I was there.
I'm not sure.
But I think if you want to laugh, that one will be a good one to go to. However, you shouldn't go to that because in the other room is tattoo.
And I want to make sure that his room is full as well.
So this is the predicament that you have at these events like which show the which room do you want to go and visit.
And the final keynote is is this why you fail by Tom Calloway. Can you tell me a bit about that?
I would have to look it up actually.
Okay. And while you're doing that, I'll put out a call again for we're looking for helpers obviously to go around and help out as the Southeast Linux Fest for the HPR table.
And I guess also Dave you're looking for people are you looking for people to help out as well on the floor.
Oh yeah, we could we could always use volunteers and we've never really had to turn away volunteers or beg for them.
They just usually just show up and get things done for us. It's been great.
You seem quite chilled out about the whole thing is this is that because everything's third year and it's just you're into the groove or as a too far away or.
No, it's not too far away. It's right around the corner and I don't know what.
I'm not I don't feel panic yet. How about that?
Yes, being the optimal.
So just speaking of that, when is it on just remind our listeners again?
It's June 10th through the 12th. That's Friday through Sunday.
So yeah.
And then we have the Sunday event, which is essentially a droop big Drupal camp.
Then in the on the Sunday in there's a Drupal camp in room A B and C, which we've already covered.
The Lynn Nordroom, which is a pop-up lab training and Ubicon is going to be in the photo room.
And then in the Google room, we have I'll just go through from nine to five, the schedule from nine to 10 is building a secure flexible Java script ecosystem from 1015 to 1115 deployment.
Deploying in high, the available Django application stacks with chef 1130 to 1230 Java EE 6 hackathon using netbeams and last fish after lunch at 130 is Emacs and you 2345 to 345 reaching out with video games.
And finally, four to five configuration management and environmental environment consistency.
And that reaching out, that reaching out with video games talk is is going to be presented by Kelly West and she is with Landville and they will be doing a land party all day Saturday.
So if you want to come get your game on you can do that there'll be a land party going on most of the day Saturday.
Oh fantastic fantastic and tell me Dave have I missed anything any of the anything at all about the events that's better coming up.
Well, if you want to get your BSDA certification or LPR, I'm assuming level one certification, you can get those on Sunday.
And how much is that?
I forget how much it is, but it is a bar again.
It is relatively cheap.
The BSD when you read.
So when you register for the event on the website, you can there's links to those places. I forget the cost for that.
But I can tell you folks that the LPI certification at least is very well respected.
And it is also because of its community nature, it's quite well.
Quite well respected and it's affordable to do.
So even if you're there and you're thinking, well, do I know enough it's no harm to go in and do the exam.
It's like throw you back 100 books or so or whatever it costs.
Believe me, it's it's well worth it even to just try a practice exam and see how you get on.
Oh, yeah, yep.
And I think the other thing we left out may have been that the Expo 4 is open from 9 to 5 on Saturday and from 9 to 3 on Sunday.
Expo 4 is closed on Friday though.
Okay.
But it's open all day Saturday and Sunday.
All day Sunday.
The after party is Saturday night at the hotel bar as well.
Okay.
Do you do a core will be performing there is he's done the last two years and become in a bit of a tradition now, I guess.
Yes, yes.
Excellent.
And those of you who I think do courted you're the lot of the next links intro.
Yeah, they did.
Okay, cool stuff.
Dave.
Both of our parties have sponsors this year too.
That's something we've never had before.
How much does that mean?
That means that we we have companies paying for drink tickets for us.
So that may mean that may mean there are more drink tickets to be had.
And is that why Dan is Dan was scheduled at 130?
Yeah, the same in Alan Hakes you have to watch out for.
I got you.
I got you.
So Dave, that's it.
I'm really, really sorry.
I can't be there.
I'm relying on the HPR.
I'm relying on you and the good folks at the southeast Linux Fest and all the volunteers to get some video and audio up online of the talks.
What would be cool Dave, just speaking as a regular guy would be to have the audio and perhaps the the PowerPoint presentations.
Yes, that was the goal last year, but like I said, we learned some things.
Hopefully learned some stuff last year.
So we're going to do a much better job this year and that.
And as you know, HPR will be available as an outlet for your for your videos.
If you need or your audio and presentations and stuff, you want to get that out to the community.
And also we're hoping that some of the people going to the show.
Perhaps you've recorded a show for HPR.
Perhaps you just HPR listener and you want to go around with a mic record some conversations from the show floor.
I find that as interesting as anything else, you know, people you meet.
The sponsors that are there.
The people that manning the boots, you know, are just giving us an update on the atmosphere around the show.
That's always that's all that sort of stuff that we like to hear here in HPR.
And Dave, do you forget anything else?
No, I don't think so.
The only thing I would add I think is, you know, I hate that you can't come can.
And you know, like you already mentioned, we'll have the audio and video up.
But if you can't attend or if there's any way you can attend, you should because.
These these talks and stuff PowerPoint and I mean that the slides and the audio and video will be up.
But which which you're missing out if you don't attend is the whole community aspect of this.
The hall the hallway track and making air quotes here.
The pretty party that party.
All of that.
It's really eye opening to a first time attendee to one of these events as to how open the community is.
It's as open as our software and is free to be a part out.
So it's it's if you've never been to what if this is your first one, I envy you because you're going to have your eyes open.
It's really fun.
I understand what you mean.
Was that the the first one I've been to has been look radio in the UK.
Look radio live and it was it was a ball I was standing outside the event having flown in from somewhere thing and what the hell am I doing here.
Nobody's going to talk to me.
I'm a Linux guy and then you go in and five minutes later everybody's talking to everybody and you're having beers of people and you know it's it's really a cool feeling.
Yeah and it's a word of advice for new conference goers.
If you want to do this right, there's a rule of three.
And that's three showers and three hours sleep a night.
I guess the entire weekend.
If you're doing it right, you will have please take a shower and please get about three hours sleep.
But I don't know.
I mean you'll you'll find yourself staying up to three four a.m. talking to talking to people.
Very, very, very cool.
I envy you. I envy you all and I want to thank you and all the other people.
I know there's a lot of other people in yourself, but you're kind of a president of the Southeast Linux Fest regardless of what you say already.
For putting this sort of venue on and encouraging other fest to come up in your wake.
So you heard it here folks.
Southeast Linux Fest June 10th to 12th.
Spartanburg South Carolina.
Yes, free to 10 please come.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
For more information on the show and how to contribute your own shows visit HackerPublicRadio.org.
Thank you.
