Episode: 157
Title: HPR0157: New Hackermedia Content
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0157/hpr0157.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 12:30:51

---

.
Welcome to Hacker Public Radio.
This is your host, Drupes.
And today we're going to be talking about a few new hacker media items that are going
on.
The first one and this morning I got an email saying that the hacker voice digest issue
three had been released.
You can go get that at hackervoice.co.uk.
There's all kind of cool guide the number stations and history of British telecom systems
and interesting phone numbers and VoIP and Vonage and IT theft and urban exploration
and all kind of or as they say a fuck ton more.
The other day if you read slash dot you might have found this.
There's a show called Citizen Engineer that just released their first episode at the
Hope Conference in New York.
Their website is citizenengineer.com and it's Lady Ada and Filter Roan and they do a
little pay phone hacking and they do a SIM card reader or slash writer.
And the pay phone hacking is Lady Ada has a old pay phone that she built some circuitry
to put inside and it's very professional looking and really cool content.
Everything's open source that they built and you can get the plans and do it yourself.
And the third and final one is we all know the band they might be giants or they have
a Friday night video podcast that my daughter just loves.
In fact she's sitting next to her mom drinking her milk right the second watching the show
on TV and they have just nerdy little awesome children's videos and we're going to actually
close with a song from it.
One of their little shows called The Ballad of Davey Crockett in Outer Space and my favorite
line is that he shot off his gun without making a sound but I'm going to just play it
and let you pick your own lines.
Thank y'all for listening to Hacker Public Radio this has been Drupes.
Reborn in the stratosphere and Saturn bound flying fast and miles off the ground jumped
from the spaceship just to look around and shot off his gun without making a sound.
Davey, Davey Crockett, King of this brand new place, Davey, Davey Crockett, traveling
through outer space, off when his rocket at the speed of light, flying so fast there
was no day or night messing around with the fabric of time.
He knows who's guilty for there's even a crime.
Davey, Davey Crockett, the buckskin astronaut, Davey, Davey Crockett, there's more than
we were taught, hiding in the cargo was a robot drone, programmed to destroy Davey
spaceship home, Davey switched out his brains, now the drones are dark clone, named him
Copranicus and threw him a bone.
Davey, Davey Crockett, King of this brand new place, Davey, Davey Crockett, traveling
through outer space.
Davey, Davey Crockett, King of this brand new place, Davey, Davey Crockett, traveling
through outer space.
Davey, Davey Crockett, King of this brand new place, Davey Crockett, King of this brand
new place, Davey Crockett, King of this brand new place, Davey Crockett, King of this brand
