Episode: 875
Title: HPR0875: Replacing Older Hardware
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0875/hpr0875.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 03:54:51

---

You
Hey, this is J.W. and I thought I'd do a couple of short podcasts for Hacker Public
Radio. I met Ken at the Og Camp and I wanted to do a couple of more. Recently, I had the
need to replace some really old boxes that I had. I have several boxes and two of them
have a cemperon that I had got in 2002 and are for the first generation cemperon and
the USB ports weren't working very well on the back of it anymore. And the other was an
old Alaphon box and I'm not sure if it was Alaphon 64 or what it was but also the USB ports on
the back weren't doing too well. And so I said, okay, well, what is out there? And I don't want
to spend a lot of money and I put about a $250 limit on the project and I said, so what's out
there? What can I get for $250 that I can replace this with? And so I use Geeks.com a lot and I've
heard some guys from the Linux League Tech Show by servers from there. Often they have pretty cheap
components there as well. And it's all used in refurbished so, you know, buyer beware, the more
research you do about it, the better it's going to be. And so what I ended up doing was I thought,
well, let's look at the, you know, the P4. And so I said, well, let's get two P4s. And so I ended up
settling on the 651 3 gigahertz model. And it's single core and I'm wondering if it's going to do
better than an atom processor. And I'm not really sure in the moment. One of the requirements was
that it had an HDMI out. And so the Geeks had a AMD card with 512 on it that had a DVI of VGA and a HDMI out.
So that Netflix can stream on it if I want. And then I went to the store and I got the last of the
terabyte hard drives because it appears that the, at least at the military purchasing store, the exchange
there, that the thing that happened in Thailand, the floods in Thailand, they just don't have any, any
desktop drives anymore. So I bought two of the green ones, solder drives there for them. And I took
it over to a guy that will, well, does it install for me because I'm not the most electronically inclined person in the
world. And so I had to pay him $30 to put the boards in and set everything up. And one of them needed a new power
supply for 15 bucks. So I got it all set up and everything seems really, really good. And interestingly enough,
the 651 was out of a stroke of luck. The 651 chip was a rank cooler than the Prescott chips, which is really,
really good. And I've configured them in the process of configuring them for dual boot. So I'll have either XP of our,
or some form of Windows 7 on there for the Netflix to work. And then I'm really looking at, at maybe Arch, or
you know, some kind of rolling release, rolling release, or maybe the current version of Ubuntu or the LTS version of Ubuntu on both of them.
And I've read that the new version of the Ubuntu will have a seamless transition. So if you get the old 1004 Ubuntu and you install it
on onto your system and you have a dual boot, when the new one comes in April, that there'll be a seamless upgrade,
right, that you won't have to, you know, do any repartitioning or anything like that, that it'll be pretty much seamless.
And I'm really looking forward to that. And these two systems generally will be used just to
watch Netflix or do some general email or general web surfing, maybe act as a, maybe some kind of file server or
something like that. I envision if a relative calls and says, oh my computer broke, that, you know, I'll put one of these in the car and
drive it over and get it done. All right, well, that's the end of this first one. I'll see you all later. Thank you very much. If you all need to get in touch with me,
it's JWP5 at HotMill.com. Thank you. Bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, where Hacker Public Radio does our, we are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a
HBR listener by yourself. If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it
really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dark pound and the
economical and computer cloud. HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are
crowd-responsive by linear pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to
lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released
under a creative commons, attribution, share a like, video's own license.
