Episode: 716
Title: HPR0716: Behind the Scenes at HPR. A community update for the month 2011-04
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0716/hpr0716.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 01:25:16

---

music
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Fallon, and welcome to this issue of HPR community news
where we give you a behind-the-scenes look of what's going on in and around the hacker
public radio community.
Today, I'm joined by my fellow admins, Poké, Silo, and Code Cruncher.
Hello.
Who've just joined up today to help out with the administration of hacker public radio.
They have been doing a lot of work behind the scenes.
You probably heard their names coming up on various different podcasts and at various
different shows.
So I'm absolutely thrilled that they are on board to help us out, especially as I'll
be away for the coming week.
I'm honored.
Thank you, Ken.
Yeah, I'm very thrilled.
Looking forward to it.
I'm even more thrilled.
I'm even more thrilled.
Okay, so usually I start off these episodes with welcoming in the new host, and at the end
of last month we were running very, very low on episodes.
Oops.
So I put out the call.
I just dropped my recorder there.
So I just put out the call, asking people to send in some episodes, and I was absolutely
thrilled by their reply.
So I'd like to thank Robyn Kathleen, Jonathan Nady, Code Cruncher, Bragg Carter, Scrip
Monkey, Bob Evans, Disaster Protocol, and I'm a skill packer and bad bits who have all
joined the HPR network, and I'd like to thank them very much for doing that.
As you all know, we're waiting for more hosts.
We do have a few shows in the queue, but we still have 191 free slots for the end of the
year.
Do you have anything to add, Lutz?
Yeah, all those new shows were a lot of fun.
I enjoyed all of them.
And before I started hosting HPR, or have hosting some episodes in HPR, it was all about
the shows for me and what I could learn and what information I could glean from them, which
was really cool.
I always, really, really liked HPR for that.
Once I started contributing though, it's become more about the people who are contributing
for me.
And that's really, really cool because I'm still getting all the knowledge and all the information,
but the people in the community who have been hosting shows and donating shows to HPR
have just, it's really cool to interact with people all over the world in that way.
I couldn't agree more.
Yeah, I mean, that's very well said.
Okay, so let's go through a few of the shows.
695 was Behind the Scenes at HPR.
And right now, I'd like to thank Tatu for coming in on the urban canopy.
He's been arrested, April Fool issue.
I'd also like to thank Karen over Bradley over at the Freeism Freedom, both all three of
which give their permission for me to do that.
And I hope loads of people were caught out of that and I hope loads of people did donate
to the Japanese fund when you do go to that page.
But how are you going for about an hour until I sat down and thought about it?
Well, I can believe it comes like the very next episode of the very next sentence was
and tomorrow on April the 2nd, they will be.
I missed it.
So then we have Mr Gadgets with his another in his path towards Linux.
And I don't know about you guys, but I'm amazed at how he's just able to pick up the phone on talk
and without om's and ours or anything.
Yeah, that's really amazing.
I did a lot of editing in my first show.
Some of those ends and om's out.
It's good that we have the phone.
Yeah, it is pretty impressive and I like to thank the guys again for setting that up for us.
Not even his technique, but even his content is fascinating.
I love listening to his show.
He's great.
Exactly. I could listen to him all day on the train.
He's a really good voice for radio.
Then the next day actually was Jonathan Nadu, who I had listened to his show.
I don't know if you guys listen to the mass of media that he puts out.
I know on HBO, we have a lot of shows, but he is putting out three podcasts a week
and they're all barren on excellent quality.
Do you listen to Jonathan's shows?
No, I've never heard of him before.
I liked, I mean, both shows that he did this month.
He's got this week in Fedora and this week in Debian and the Frostcast.
This show they are in talks with about accessibility in KDE was the direct results of
the show.
He had a discussion with them and they had discussed accessibility.
For one one way or another, Jonathan has become the banner holder, I guess,
for accessibility on Linux and the podcasting community anyway.
I was thrilled that he posted that show because I do listen to his other shows.
I was really surprised that accessibility didn't come up.
I was happy that he actually did come up in this conversation.
I'm happy that it was put out there somewhere because I take an interest in that.
He's blind.
It's the reason why he's become the front runner for that.
He's a bit of an activist as we can all see from the podcast he's done and from the festival that he hosted.
He's perfect for that spot.
But having known about a couple of other blind users in the Linux community and in the Linux podcast community,
who I like and consider friends, a lot of times when accessibility isn't considered,
I'm not blind at all, but I feel personally offended that someone wouldn't consider my friends on the people that I care about.
Yeah, exactly.
If accessibility becomes standard on the Linux desktop, then it's going to be standard on the other desktops.
We saw what happened when we started introducing Bling on to the Linux desktop.
It migrated over to the other two desktops as well.
So, episode 699 was Bragg Carter with an interview with Captain Crunch and this was the syndicated Thursday one.
Any of you get a chance to listen to that one?
I listen to it, yeah.
I'm fascinated by those phone-free guys.
Yes.
And I didn't know where the 2600 came from.
I think we all have a little bit of freaking us, all of us who like to draw a voice and podcast.
And then again, we had Mr. Gadgets with Tails Verbal Past.
The following day, we had script monkey with backing up your data and introduction.
Yes, yes, yes, this is all I can say to this episode.
Yes, I can say yes because my computer gets stolen and I'm happy for my backups.
Do you have an encrypted drive?
I have some folders that are encrypted, not encrypting everything.
I think this is one actually that we should probably come up again on what we're talking about.
What we like and the new site or website improvements, but the ability to take on-related shows and put them in the series, the backup series I think will be one.
You know, data security, what to do when you're laptop stolen, that sort of stuff.
The following day, I released a special episode.
We have rule one, which is that we can bomb episodes if they're time-related.
I don't particularly like to use it because if it's time-related, I'd like to shed your lives into the slot.
But to be honest, I only found out about the 50th anniversary of Yuri Garen's spaceflight.
So I put together that episode with the help of E-Speak and some sound clips that I got.
Don't know if any of you get a chance to hear that or what did you think of the show?
Do you know Russian?
No, I don't.
One of my past times in college was listening to Radio Peace in Harmony, which was, you know, at the time of Glasnost.
We didn't have a television, so you tune in short or radio to listen about tractor factory production in Minsk and snippets of Russians.
I think it's a beautiful language.
I love to learn it.
But then the following day we had Bob Evans with my computer history.
I mean, that was one of Yuri's books.
Yeah, he recorded that over it at North East Linux Fest.
And there were two guys that did some recordings and his show was complete enough to be, you know, a stand-alone show.
I shouldn't say complete enough because they're both complete.
It was formatted as a show.
So I put it up there on its own.
I put out as part of my review, because he basically reviewed the show, but I wanted to say about your space flight show that that was very, very well produced.
I was really, really impressed with that.
And just only just now, when you said it, did I learn that it was from together hastily, so that's even more impressive.
Yeah.
Desperation is the mother of a virgin, I guess.
And then we had a I'm off.
I, you know, one thing about this admitting stuff.
I'm not very good at is actually loads of stuff.
I'm not very good at picking up people's handles with another.
So I apologize if you get to your name or handle wrong.
My first Linux box, also a very interesting show.
I really like this series.
Yeah.
It's a good starting point.
I think everybody, everybody can send in the show about, you know, their first Linux box or their first introduction to computers or another one that's on your MP3 player.
Yeah, get you up and going.
And then after a while, you're like me looking at everything, seeing how you can turn it into a podcast.
Speaking of which, what to do when confronted with a blind person was a request I sent to Jonathan.
And it was just a fantastic, fantastic little episode.
I really enjoyed it as well.
Yeah, I was really thankful for that episode.
I posted some comments on that one also that when I said in there was I think that that should be required listening for every person who wishes to graduate high school.
They should all at least know that much.
Yeah.
Exactly.
And then the following day we had digital science, Ubuntu and trial.
Oh, stirring it up, stirring it up.
Yeah.
I also commented on that one.
I haven't done that much typing in a long time.
And if you're looking for the common folks, if you press on the P behind HPR, you'll get a description feed.
And it's on our list to make that a little bit easier.
Then we had JWP with Enterprise Resource Planning.
And I know he sells a lot of people don't find that interesting, but personally I do with he met a very good statement about how Oracle is positioning themselves in the enterprise market.
At the expense of Red Hat.
Yeah, that shows good economy.
Yeah.
And then we had Skirlis with the language frontier, episode three.
And this came out and syndicated Thursday.
And I want to talk a little bit more about that later on.
But I do love these shows.
And then we heard the speaks on tech.
What do you think of this show?
Well, I don't like saying the name.
I feel like that, you know, I might offend someone saying the name, but listening to the show, it's been one of my favorite all-time shows.
I like those guys a lot.
I like hearing their backgrounds and everything.
Yeah, that's absolutely true.
To be honest, I never.
I never.
So my go ahead.
I'm trying to remember the show.
I'm not sure I've listened to it.
But they have a lot of things in the show notes, which I find great.
Yeah, this was a sickle pocket and bad bit who are both Mexicans and they got together probably over Skype.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah, I listened to it.
Cultural studies.
Yeah.
I'm hacking.
Yeah.
Five days without the Internet.
Oh, my God.
You have a five days of the Internet, but that guy's got, you know, he's living in a house with no doors in the doorways.
It gives you a little bit of perspective.
Indeed it does.
And they, you know, to be honest, I didn't when I put up the show speaks on tech.
It was only later I would call like mix and speaks from some movies.
But I guess if they pick the show on if they're okay with it, then I guess we're okay with it.
And then we have our good friend.
And platoon is back.
And those of you, yes, I've got a complete list of shows every week for the next five or six weeks.
Platoon is going to be up.
So he was talking to our very good friend, verbal.
And then the next show was a briar man with Linux jazz recording my audio.
He is a crowd favorite.
Yeah.
I must say though, I don't like jazz.
No.
Yeah, I don't like jazz either, but I mean, he was doing some life recording there.
And that's kind of fascinating to hear what he's talking about.
It is.
I'm not a jazz fan either, but he makes me feel like I'm missing out on something.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That is the annoying part.
And then we had Mr. Polky doing the Northeast Linux Fest interview with Matt Lee and Donald Robertson.
Do you want to give us a rundown on how that came out?
I know you're going to talk about that later in another show, but.
The Northeast Linux Fest was such a blast.
It was really, really fun.
I can't wait to do it again next year or maybe even to make it to another Fest this year, but I don't think there's any others in my area.
The interview with Matt and Donald.
I was really, really pleased with.
I've never interviewed anyone before.
That was the first interview I ever did.
And those guys were just really kind and gracious in offering me that interview.
They were really easy to interview both guys were really willing and eager to share.
You know what they what they know about.
So that was really fantastic.
And then we had the full circle podcast with Amber Garner from the Ubuntu Women project.
And those that was a full circle podcast have released a whole go of shows.
I don't know if you guys listen today to that podcast.
Not yet, because we're recording this before it's coming out.
Yeah, but do you listen to the full circle podcast?
Oh, the full circle.
No, I didn't know about it.
Well, it's a he's taken the best of and re edited them down so that they'll fit into the HPR format.
So they're kind of syndicated shows, but they're kind of not either because they're for HPR.
In the same way that scarlet language frontier is, you know, it's a syndicated show, but it's not.
So it was one of the things on the mailing list this month was I'm having trouble with that.
Some shows are clearly the tempo review is clearly syndicated show.
No problem there and it'll get scheduled, but this sort of stuff kind of falls in the gray area.
And really what I don't want to do and I guess you guys.
I don't want to be seen as playing favorite to one above another because, you know, tattoo is also a HPR admin, but you don't want to spread the love around.
And it's very fuzzy to me to say, well, you know, be fair because fair is difficult to define.
Yeah, my thoughts on that particular one that the language podcast was just that they were a limited number of them.
They're off the internet now and the whole goal, which I think is our goal as well, is to get them back on the internet.
So my suggestion was to play them every other week and they'd be done in about two months.
I think that that wouldn't be an offensive solution if there are other shows that are migrating content to HPR and we're going to be the sole maintainers of that content.
I think that that might be like a special case.
Yeah, I think that's good. That's actually what I'm doing now.
If you look at the schedule, I've done that every second week and I'm going to put in the full circle podcast every second week as well and get a lot of those out.
And then the last interview, which is in our in real time is going to be released on Friday.
It's an interview I did with stankdog recorded over Skype using Skype voice recorder, which as we found out tonight can only record one channel.
And there we go through they they had a quick brief history of been rev radio what it is.
And it comes down to that stank basically is currently paying 500 euros a month or more for the hosting for HPR.
Yeah, that's a bit of a shocker.
HPR have been rev and all those other guys. So they were given a massive discount where he was only paying about 150 bucks a month.
And then he doesn't say it but then that deal got where he went back to paying the full whack.
So he was a bit pissed off or he was a bit annoyed about that.
And as a result, you know, he wanted to move hosting and he felt that the been rev community was not helping a lot of which I was a bit shocked when groups sent me the link because, you know, I feel that the HPR side of the community is very vibrant and there's, you know, a lot of activity.
And since I've started doing the admitting I've had nothing but, you know, positive feedback from people and I don't know what you guys experience has been.
I've heard a lot of positive feedback too. I don't know much about the interest out of the house but I have been looking forward to that episode because I'm, you know, tiny here from stankdog again.
Yeah, exactly. So it's all about that. And the server actually since then I think the server has been moved.
So we're up and running things that have been bugging me like the email not working is not working. So I think we're good to go and we can we can move over.
And one of the things that's so anyone got anything to add, I know, Poki, you need to run soon.
Yeah, yeah, I just, I don't really have anything to add about what we've already talked about, but I know that in a few minutes we're going to do a spectacular feat of time travel here on our end.
And it's going to look pretty mundane to the folks on the other end, but I don't want it to go unnoticed that we're going to, we're going to jump from, from Wednesday to Monday.
That's when Code Crunchy gets her review of Lennox Fest North West.
Yep.
This is a last minute insert by Code Crunchy. I'm on my way home from beautiful Bellingham Washington State after two intense days at the Lennox Fest Northwest.
Earlier this year, after Poki signed up for Northeast Lennox Fest, I discovered Lennox Fest Northwest and signed up for a table, which was free.
As was the participation at the Lennox Fest, which is already in its 12th year and has always been free.
I must say, I was very lucky that I'm a half joined me at the table.
He set up on Saturday morning with the material we got from Poki.
And that included a table cloth slash banner made by Poki's mom, two books with QR codes to every show of HPR,
ogle stickers and mini cards.
And we added three computers, loudspeakers, condenser microphone on a stand and two HPR T-shirts.
And any one of these items actually surfed as an icebreaker in one way or another.
And we talked to a lot of people.
We also recorded some short interviews, which will end up in one to two upcoming shows.
So you will hear more about the festival.
So people asked us a lot of questions.
First of all, what is hacker public radio?
What kind of hacker are these shows for?
And where are you located?
So this last question we usually responded to with a smile and explained how everything works.
We used the books with the QR codes a lot to refer to the fact that HPR is already at show number 715.
And that it started on December 31, 2007.
Quite a number of people with the help of Emma half scanned the QR code for the first time.
And I think at a festival that is so much about community, it felt really good to help people to discover something new.
So our table was really busy all the time.
We each went to only one talk each.
Emma half became a group of fans.
And I got introduced to behavior-based testing of infrastructure.
So in conclusion, my impression is that the table at the Linux Fest Northwest was a success.
Some people already knew HPR.
Others discovered HPR because the table was listed in the program.
And many came to the table and heard about HPR for the first time.
Emma half and I certainly had a lot of fun.
And I would like to welcome new listeners as well as new hosts that we met at the Linux Fest Northwest.
So if I can just quickly go through some of the stuff that came up on the list and then we can call it a day.
We had a lot of discussions about hobby public radio.
I don't know if you people have gone over the hobby public radio.
It is looking super, super fantastic.
Thanks for it.
Thanks in no small part to co-cruncher here.
So if you can take a bow please.
Yeah.
I didn't do much.
I just replaced that picture with the trees.
It's an hack of public radio.
And right now there are about five blog posts.
And mainly about how we want to develop a new website for hack or public radio.
So I think this is a good chance to invite everybody to go to hobby public radio.
And look at those postings and let us know what they think should be done through the website.
From my side.
Should they all go at once?
Are they going to knock it over if they do that?
No, no, it should be okay.
It should be okay.
Anyways, I kind of like from the discussions of from the mailing list.
I identified like three things that I think would be important to have on the new site.
One is like a really easy way to upload shows with a form and they can upload your file and everything just goes there.
A filter that you can use to find shows and you can also use that filter for an RSS seed.
So you would really only get certain shows if you're only interested in a certain topic.
And the third feature, which I call battle, which would kind of aggregate all the different communication channels that we have like Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, show comments.
Mail list, IRC and identity counts.
We have so many channels for communication that kind of run in parallel and it's really hard to keep them with you.
So I would like to aggregate those.
And I think can you also you wanted the cloud, right, the tax cloud?
Yeah.
While I have from the admin point of view, I've got a few requirements.
Those are that anybody can come on register.
They're emailed, they're linked, they come back, they're authorized.
And now you're a HBR contributor.
I want people to be able to upload a show, write the show notes and press a button.
And then that says it will be scheduled.
They shouldn't it shouldn't be posted immediately.
And then it should be we should be able to schedule it one one show a day.
And then as time goes on, some other things.
But I've actually installed a lot of WordPress plugins as I see how they work.
And I think we're pretty okay.
I'm looking for somebody who knows how to change the default permissions from for a contributor and a poster.
Somebody is familiar with it because on the lowest level of permissions you can.
You don't have the ability to upload a file.
But you need to be an editor in order to do that.
But if you're an editor, you can press submit.
And then it'll submit the show immediately, which is something we don't want to do.
So that kind of thing.
But it will all work out beautifully in the end, I guess.
I have a sound.
Sorry for all the background noise here.
The car is going by and the steam whistle just went off.
I work in the quarry with Fred Flintstone.
Yeah.
Because there's a steam whistle, but everybody should even Apple.
So I don't know.
As Code Cruncher says.
Yeah, send us your feedback.
Join the main list.
HackerPublicRadio.org for such mail list.
Join there.
It's a load of funding.
And also go over to a hobby public radio and add your comments there.
We had some trouble with the.
Sorry. Go on, Code Cruncher.
I just wanted to say that we're also going to release this up as a project.
So that we can also have these contributors like an open source project.
Yes.
That part we haven't quite figured out yet, which system we're going to use.
Yeah.
And when you make a decision about that, be sure and tell us.
I'm not going to make that.
But yeah, it's it's again, I don't want to make the decision on my own.
The decision will be met on the mailing list or on voting on the hobby public radio site.
But let's all do it together.
Yeah.
So right now I'm kind of waiting for you to move to the moving of this site.
And then I think we can go on holidays.
Yeah.
Once you're back, we'll pick up with talking about the whole new site thing again.
Cool.
And then he also put on that topic.
Oh, shall we move on?
I think I'm good.
I want to say that there has been loads of positive feedback about the stickers in the wild poking.
And I want to thank you very much for that initiative.
It's really, really cool.
And I'm really enjoying it.
Oh, yeah.
That's really cool because I, you know, we're just talking with the guys on on IRC one day.
And thought that HPR stickers that look like those, well, you guys have them in Europe,
but over here, Yuppies only have those little oval stickers.
Yeah.
And I just thought it would be funny to mock those people.
I had no idea it was going to turn into, you know, something that people are having so much fun with and kind of taking seriously.
And I never expected to get pictures back from it, which was wicked fun.
5150 started that off.
And people were telling me that they're going to do shows now that they've got stickers.
You know, they feel like they have to earn the stickers, which I had no idea that was going to be the case either.
I would have bought shows with stickers two years ago, if I knew that was going to work.
Yeah, that was definitely a good idea.
Did you see the one that's Peter 64 centen?
Yep.
The two that he sent in.
I had to put them in upside down.
The funny thing is, he sent them to me upside down.
I corrected them and sent them to you and you put them back upside down.
So there, just moving on.
Yeah, I want to congratulate our friends over at Linux Outlaws for reaching episode 200.
Yeah.
Congratulations, guys.
And thanks to Fab for sending us a picture of his HPR sticker on his notebook.
And he has promised to send in an episode, which I haven't got yet.
So no pressure, no pressure.
I would like to mention, actually, that we are now, if you take into account the 715 that we've done and the 300 that was done directly before that from our before the rename from
to a tech radio, that we have reached 1,015 episodes here in HPR of community goodness.
It's cool.
That's amazing.
One thing everybody.
Yes, exactly.
Thank you everybody for making HPR into a community.
I really think it's cool.
One thing that the name change, I think I've listened to them all.
I don't think I've missed any.
Yeah.
Naravai.
I haven't missed any of the 1,015.
You heard all that today with the techies.
Yeah.
I contributed one or two over there as well.
One of the things that came up in the Northeast Linux Fest one, episode 713,
Poké that you did was releasing under creative commons.
We license HPR under creative commons, attribution, share like non commercial license.
And I, you released that one under a creative commons.
So basically allowed for commercial use.
And I would really love to change the licensing of HPR so that we dropped the non commercial
because it makes it difficult for anybody to to burn a CD and sell us or buy a USB Tom drive
with all the shows on it and sell it for the cost of the USB Tom drive.
Yeah.
Or for any reason do you know like a news piece on it.
If it picks up any kind of traction that way.
So I mean if anybody you know wants to know the benefits of releasing under a commercial license,
Bradley Coon is the big and explain that better than I could certainly do it on free isn't freedom podcast.
Yeah.
And the thing about this is it also prevents you from releasing it on, you know,
having a community radio, a community podcast show on a commercial TV station
because it's a commercial venture.
You're not able to do that.
So what I would like to do is I'd like to propose and get feedback from the community.
Mailless hack-a-public radio that are out for a slash mailless is on switching the default license
to drop the non commercial so that when you upload a show that one of the drop down lists
would be what license you license is under.
And you know by default it would be Creative Commons by essay.
And you could select non commercial so that way when we're doing the customized feeds
you could take a HPR customized feed where you know that everything is free to use on a commercial basis.
Good idea.
It's a very good idea.
And speaking of people who love freedom, stick zero has sent me in a permission to release the HPR music as we like.
So we actually own the intro and outro music and we own the HPR microphone logo
so we can consider those being released by Creative Commons by essay as of now.
We've already discussed the syndicated show what's the syndicated show or not.
If you and that's not too late have designed a sticker or a mini card your book is on its way.
Well actually your book isn't on its way.
It's starred in my Gmail folder to send the book over.
So I'll do that as soon as we get back from vacation.
And speaking of vacation, I'm going on vacation tomorrow so I need to go unpack now.
And that's pretty much it.
Yeah.
Okay and thank you very much for listening and do you want to say goodbye and then we'll leave a space for cold crunchy to put in her review of the show.
Yeah, goodbye now.
Thanks everyone for listening. Have a great day.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Republic Radio.
For more information on the show and how to contribute your own shows visit HackerPublicRadio.org.
Thank you very much.
