Episode: 235
Title: HPR0235: EC Lug November 20th Meeting
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0235/hpr0235.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 14:34:04

---

itable.
.
.
.
.
.
Hello and welcome to the old player Linux group. We're back live. Yay! We kind of have
our internet issues figured out somewhat ish maybe. We're missing our
fearless leader this week but we're still gonna forge on and I'm sure we'll be
able to create an interesting and fun learning environment for everyone
listening all right okay so anyway now that we've set the bar I turned on
um logging on the computer so we'll see what's coming in and what's going on
why you can't connect here. I guess we can go around do two and a half minutes
pain. All right we can go the other way. This is my two minutes break. I just opened
it up and says internet connection available or wireless connection available
it's like not a mom okay that's it. And also got my HP program. It's who's at
STTD. I'm not sure who that is. I'm not sure who that is. I was trying to
load that up. I bought an H3 sprinter and they give you the software and the
disk. I was trying to load that disk you know make it work and so I get
it was plugged in. That's up. That's what I'm doing the printer and the way I go.
What do they give you all that grip? Well they choose not to they could. I mean
you could be a generic printer device and probably print pretty good but you
wouldn't be using all features of printer. For instance I got a new printer and it
does duplex you know prints on both the front and the back of the paper and without
having the specific driver for that printer it was print but you can't do that
duplex. So that driver enables it to do all these little features that are
only for that printer. For my particular printer it's a brother printer and
brother provides open source drivers for all their printers so yep I was able to
go on their site and download a driver and it worked one day. It worked
before but I've got all the specific settings for that print. So if you
were to say download an HB driver with an HB printer would you actually put
it on? The windows are I mean until the next year is that particularly a window.
Well the way the drivers work there's kind of the binary part that only works
on like either windows or linux or Mac and then they also have like almost
like a description like kind of like a sub-driver that works across the whole
thing. So the binary you need the binary part but then you need this other piece
which is across the entire range. So that kind of describes your printer. So
as long as you've got the binary part which is kind of shared then you get that
little description file and then it says this printer has this this this and
then so turn all these on. So then the binary thing turns all these things on for you.
There's both of it.
All right. Still no internet? Well I have to get the signal because I don't get
a router and I go like I mean the DNS server. Maybe it has to be a DHCP client that's
going to look. Yeah and I'm not sure because I was just able to
connect right to it. I disconnected it just reconnected and I was able to connect
to it. It's single. It was microwave. What is cooking? It's like yourself.
You know it makes it big to be able to hear it right away and I'm sure the same thing goes on.
These guys signals. I mean it can't be here at the end because I need B or G. Yeah
well I'm going to have G in here either. So mine is connected to under. Yeah mine
should be connected to under G.
Generally just putting the card in the building.
I got another question. I mean I'm a friend's house. I'm trying to hope to the wireless
and then there's like three come up you know, just a three and I'll probably get the
neighbors but then it asks for a like a password or so kind of signal. Where do I look
on? Look for it on that computer. It's a windows. So on the windows PC can you get
the wireless password? I don't think there's a way to get that password.
Yeah it would have to be actually connecting to the router itself and then you can maybe
get the password through that. They don't generally let you get the password from other PCs
because then somebody could hack into the PC. Get the password. Probably he can connect
to the router. So a lot of times if you go like there'll be a paddress that'll get to the
router. For this one it's 192.168.1.1. So this will be the router settings. So the router
will kind of have its own web page. So this is the router upstairs. And then on wireless
there'll be something like this and it'll be probably a security cap somewhere and I'll
just be out like this and then right here there'll be probably a password. And that will
be the password that you would need to enter. So how did you start off? I just need to,
it's maybe that IP address it will connect to that you know browser on that PC and it'll
go to the router and then it's usually in the wireless security. You might have to walk
around depending on you know what type of router it is but it'll be because you have
to secure and change your password password. By default it comes without a password. So somebody
came in and set this password at some point. Thank you for listening to H.P.R. sponsored
by Carol.net. So head on over to C-A-R-O dot A-C for all of us in need.
