Episode: 73
Title: HPR0073: Google 411 Update
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0073/hpr0073.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 11:01:31

---

music
Everybody, this is Lunar. I'm back with an update. We're going to 7-11 now, and we're
going to have to the pay phone. We're not going to say where I went out to the pay phone.
I decided to check with Google 4-1, you know, that's around. I called, I was actually
outside using the pay phone, and I called to work to screw with my coworker one night.
Then I decided to check in on Bell's mind, and this is what I got for the call to go through.
Brandon Florida.
Brandon, come in Florida. Go back.
Go back.
You can also type in the five digits of code. What city in state?
Brandon, Florida.
Brandon, Florida. What business name? What category?
Bell's mind.
Bell's mind. If that's not right, take, go back.
Searching.
There was no direct match, but here are some related listings.
Number one, Bell's mind pbx and blurm on Bluff View Lane.
To select number one.
One.
Or snubber one, Bell's mind pbx and blurm.
On Bluff View Lane, I'll connect you, or say details, or go back.
Hold on.
My pbx.
To listen to Evan Doorbell, group bell recording.
Press month.
To listen to the radio freak episode archive.
You are sure it may be the only person in this conference.
As you can see, I can call 1-800-Google-411, Goog-411, and I can connect to the pbx.
I'm sorry, I'm just too happy right now.
So now you can connect to the conference from anywhere.
You can freak on phones.
You can talk to people wherever.
Startup conferences on the pbx again.
Guys, we really need to start up conferences.
You know, this brings in a whole new light, a whole new situation.
You can call people for free long distance.
Just have them call this 100 number.
You call the 100 number.
You meet in a conference.
Free fucking long distance.
Just keep this going, guys.
This is Lunar and I'm out.
Thank you for listening to Hack with Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net.
She'll head on over to C-A-R-O.N-C for all of her C-E.
Thanks for watching.
Thanks for watching.
