Episode: 272
Title: HPR0272: EC Lug December 18th Meeting
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0272/hpr0272.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 15:23:18

---

Soni Chatt puede —
Hello and welcome to this week's O'Claire Linux user group. Today is Thursday
December 18th and it's almost Christmas in here. And we are having internet
connection and we are on this close location. Sounds mysterious. Sounds mysterious.
It is just because of the special Christmas kind. You want to know where it is? Please send $20 to the following ad.
The ad was very tricky. So how are we doing today? Good. Good. Shall we go in our two minutes of
time? What are we doing? I want to start. I got some books from the library. Cool. To get me up to speed one was a visual or what's the script? Well, JavaScript.
JavaScript and then one on XML and one on Java. So I'm paging through those and starting realizing
the stuff isn't as complicated as I thought. So this is the JavaScript. That stuff's kind of actually makes good sense.
And when you get about half of the book through, you can move to India and you can be after a professional programmer.
I haven't turned you all that junk mail. It comes over here. That's the book. Oh, I'm sorry. Give them all credit. Give them all credit.
So that's been keeping me busy. And what else can I do? I think that's about it. Just normal every day. Raise the kids. Put up with the wife. That kind of stuff.
How do you do that? Do you have a how-to? How close that website? How to raise the kid and put up with the wife all day.
And keep your sanity. So I don't know. That's my two minutes of favor. All right. I'll pass. Don't pass the gas.
I haven't done a whole lot really. And missing with the spot again. Still playing with Banshee here and there. I still like it quite a bit.
So I've changed my mind recently. I think you like Banshee because they're playing for Android. Yeah. And plug my phone into it.
That's the whole reason. I think it works that so. But other than you know playing with those two things, I haven't done a whole lot.
We've had some construction on the home side. I don't want a time to mess with a computer stuff. But I'm still using a boot to it. I haven't installed a new operating system yet.
Let's start open soon. No, I don't think I'm going to do it. I don't think I should. I tried the open. There's a live CD the other day. And you know, there's enough difference.
I can easily figure out how to mount the wife. It's reasonable amount of time. Just double flip on it. Yeah. I just don't have the time to right now.
Right now anyways. We'll see if we get our house situated. Maybe that'll change.
You know, you could try Slackware. It was released. I could try. What is Slackware?
You said early distribution. They were one person out there. They went to a kernel one point. No, two point two point six right now.
Oh, they made a switch. It's official. It's the person who started Slackware still. Yes, he's the manufacturer.
Yeah, Patrick. What was his name? He's a little town next to the border there. The town name is Slackie.
No, I don't know how I can work with Slackware actually. I did read that somewhere.
What's its advantage or doesn't have one anymore? People love it. It's not saying there's no thread.
Everything is standard. So that's what is the advantage. And people who don't have a time to touch it.
It was one of the early ones that came with a half with decent stroller. I think that was what originally made popular.
I think it was the second distribution we used. And you know, have an end curses in stroller that you could at least call it the help screen.
It would help you make some choices about what you want.
Yeah. And with the installer too, it didn't have depend or any of the dependency systems like they do now like the.
Yeah, it was. You had to use their basic pack. Yes, which were straight up tarballs just come, you know, a compressed folder of files.
And you just unlit it. Installation pretty much decisions were pretty much do you want this or don't you want this?
When was all that ten years ago? I'd say the first we had like I think the last one I use was version three and that was probably 94.
All right. There's a version about it. Yeah. And version 12.
And people who love Slackware love it. And also it is a acquired taste.
They were very accessible. That was one of the first things. I mean, there was a lot of trouble with network cards in those days.
But they it was very easy to write these guys a letter and they would literally give you the hard code changes you had to make in the network card driver so that your network card would work.
So it was one of a few ways to get the whole system up and running.
Wow. There are a couple of derivatives of Slackware tours.
Slack is like a mini live CD. I think there's probably more damn small.
It's based on Slack. Is it? I don't think so, is it?
I think Slack's with them with the the camera before they clover.
Yeah. I know there's one iteration of those really small languages that is based on Slack.
I don't know what that is. Oh, I don't think it is. I'm sure his based on Slackware.
Yeah. I think I think I don't think it is damn small.
I know what I know. I think I had it on for a while now.
Computer. What was that call?
I mean, it's not something anybody who's using deviance or wants to be too thrilled about.
So you'd say it's kind of we progress past that point.
You're kind of using what those guys know. I think it's getting what you used to.
There are still people who are using Gen2 and they love it. They live with it.
So they actually they think that if you are using Ubuntu then you are not putting up Linux user.
So it's just a matter of opinion and people love it. Love it.
It's a no frills. Yes. Yeah.
And probably that part of the reputation is as you said that it was this very accessible.
At the time when there was a lot of opinion that you are supposed to read your manual before you ask the question.
So but it was still an ex the graphical ex.
Yeah, it's really just had like T. W.
Right now is a desktop manager.
If you look at nowadays you wouldn't notice any difference really.
Because the color themes would be different.
But how did you see no?
No, no, I think that he was in KDE.
Oh, you couldn't have known too.
Okay. The probably KDE.
Yeah, let's wait past when I last used it.
When I'm using it, it was just ex windows with T. W. M.
I think he had a choice from T. W. M. and O. L. W. M.
Or O. L. W. M.
Which was kind of a slayerous looking type of open look.
Oh, yes.
It looks good.
And Dan Small Linux was based on nuggets.
Right. Yeah.
There is one that based on Slackware and basically is just a stripped down flat.
Yeah, no, there may be another one.
And I don't know that one at all.
But there was another one that I had put into that was, I thought it was named after somebody.
And it was like Andrews, Andrews, Linux or something like that.
I mean, it was just some little thing.
It had some of the problems of Slackware where you couldn't put one thing or another together.
And it worked out some of them.
There we go.
I got a whole list of all this Wikipedia's got a list of all the distributions.
And I say what they're based off of.
So under Slackware, we got a Strumi, basic Linux.
Strumiware.
Gotlinx.
Post GIS.
MU Linux.
Nibblex.
Slackintash.
SMS.
64.
Slack.
Top-bola.
Jill.
Linux.
Vector Linux.
And then walk Linux.
Yeah.
Don't want to think it may not even be out there.
And then there's a bunch of them that are based off of Slack, which is the derivative of that.
Backtrack, Davids, DNA Linux, and Slack.
Brother.
Are they based off of Slack, Steven?
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We got here a fly.
Maybe 250 megabytes.
Because it's a live distribution.
They have the other.
Yeah.
They take that base then.
Right.
Right.
So.
So.
I don't know.
Yeah.
The one that's one.
Yeah.
That's.
That's new slides before.
But I did.
Are those.
Are the ones that are credit card shaped 200 meg or those like 100 megabytes?
They might be less.
I think they're less than a hundred megabytes.
I have the whole terrible ones, but they were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
They were the same.
Yeah they were the same.
And the registers nobody wanted to buy it.
And the registers.
Yes.
No, they didn't need it, so they didn't have any lost.
Yes!
Everybody suppose that someone was trying to go out the boxes that we walked in the window.
Yeah.
So somebody told me they went in there and they only had one register left to take credit cards on,
because they sold the credit card slipers on the other lanes.
That was like what I did.
That was like my idea.
Some of the stores were closed and the Claremont was going to close.
Yeah, that was many, many years in the coming I think.
That's the last thing that came down that was.
Yeah, I don't know how they got this door open.
I mean, the small business area, the smaller.
I think there should be a company that there's so many businesses that we're going out of business.
That's the name of it, because it's permanent coming out of this.
Let me do that, yeah.
That's what that was by.com.
Yeah, that's it.
So you make brand opening and going out of business.
You swap it every two months.
It just changed the name.
My favorite business idea is that commercial, the guy willing on.
And what does he say?
A lot of the design goals.
I can't remember. He ends up saying it's a commercial or something.
It was commercial part of our memories.
Saying the fact that you can sell anything if you say we don't include any of this or that.
And he uses the transplants as examples.
But they may transplants up.
So he's going to sell tires with zero death crystals.
I don't know.
Does anybody buy that?
Anybody buy the screaming yellow zonkers?
I mean, there was a popcorn.
It was just a popcorn dyed yellow.
The whole marketing thing was called it something neat enough.
It was like a bunch of hippies in San Francisco or something.
It was like screaming yellow zonkers.
And it was like a fat.
We need anything else.
It was just yellow popcorn.
Was it microwaveable?
No. It came already popped.
It was a little box.
It had like a lightning bolt across it.
It's screaming yellow zonkers.
It's very psychedelic letters.
It probably cherries well for it.
Oh, yeah. It was good.
It was like eight times what you'd have to pay for.
It was popcorn.
They saved even more.
It was awful.
It was actually horrible.
It was like way too salty.
It was just awful.
I don't remember that at all.
It was in the late 60s.
Or at least in Pittsburgh.
Maybe they made it a little clearer.
People were too frugal with their money.
Yeah.
It was a bit too big this size.
But it bought it.
Cool.
Yeah. Oh, okay.
My blues were very weak.
Now that's on my guitar playing.
That's pretty good.
But my printer was very weak on the blues.
And my firmware was reporting that it was only at like 43%.
So I wondered why it was apparently the firmware
that was just reporting.
I put new cartridges in it.
It was on the door.
Anybody know why that happens?
Is that actually just an estimate?
It was really worse reporting things on the hardware.
HP was monitoring the print card.
And they just did that.
It was so long that you replaced it last time.
Yeah.
If you don't buy yourself a new cartridge,
we will delete your printer.
Generally, they don't have any type of measuring device
in those cartridges.
What they do is they just measure how long you have it on.
And based on that.
I figured that because everything has an aspect of this.
And it says like based on 5% coverage or something like that.
So I figured it was this.
Well, it does actually keep track of how much ink it thinks is going through.
So if it's on full, it's for five seconds that knows,
okay, that much ink should go through.
So that's what it based on.
So it's the same sort of thing.
Now, is that mean that my waste drum and all that sort of stuff
is misreporting to?
You know, there's a waste-toned collection drum too.
I don't know how...
There might be a measurement in that.
I don't think it's even like...
Maybe the printer is a part.
I don't think there's any wire there.
It's just a rubber reservoir of glue with it.
So it's anyway checked whether that's actually good.
I don't know.
Tip it upside down, you don't know what I'm talking about.
Tip it upside down.
Outside, you'll filter it back.
You're ready.
This is it.
I can't.
I've done that.
I mean, it wasn't my printer's work, so I'm working on it.
I'm just like, oh, no.
Don't do that again.
I'm lucky all the time.
That's good.
The other thing I was looking at,
I found really nice and useful,
were those Linux-free Linux lesson things
that you had a link to for a while.
Some of those are very good.
Looking at the one for Pearl,
and learned a few things from them.
Did your brain become working?
No, no.
I think that there was also Pearl release.
Yeah, there was like maintenance release.
Well, the guy who invented tickle just retired.
Anybody read that LWM stuff?
There's a big political dispute going on in the devian world.
Somebody who's one of the group managers.
You know, they vote on things.
Like they're going to do something.
They always have to vote.
Well, he got really flamed out,
and got his feelings hurt, and he quit in the huff.
So they're wondering whether this is the first signs of the death of devian
other people in that.
It's just healthy change.
Did you go through the devian planet?
Yeah, there's some weird stuff in that.
You know, I was watching it for some time.
I was like saying, wow.
It's amazing that you can get anything done at all.
Yeah, I just said, I don't have time to read this.
Yeah, but well, I know read it from the interest in computing.
I read it in sociological interest.
You know?
Yeah, that's only for other people.
But it's amazing how many organizations have those kinds of problems.
It's just incredible.
There's some news that some women's got flamed and whatever else.
Yeah, but yeah.
Yeah, it's interesting.
I mean, it's, you know, I'm not a regular reader with every now and then.
I died in.
Let's see what's going on.
That's cool.
I think it's your turn.
Yeah, mostly cleaning snow off the side of this.
Are those guys doing real good?
Yeah, okay.
We put in some of the, they have a salad as well.
The salad?
The salad.
The salad.
The salad.
The salad.
The salad.
The salad.
The salad.
The salad.
The salad.
The salad.
I think it's a little hutch, you know, that's very insulated and we put in 4 sixty wattтоpes and there's this.
And um, I was kind of a freak.
You know, they would like to look at that and say, that's a trap.
I'm going to stay over here on the trips.
Thank you very much.
They got over it.
Well, the letters inside and they went up the ramp and stuck their head in and said, hmmm.
Some of the worst few days did run out as soon as we came down, so we wouldn't know
if we were in there.
The last few times I went down to let them out, they sort of stuck their head in and
ran out.
And the buildings passed the first snow load test.
I mean, no sign of any.
Their weakness is there.
They're in another one this weekend.
Yeah.
But they drove on.
Yeah.
But it's working out pretty well.
Yeah, they have a funny feeling of it.
It's kind of what.
Because the heat flows for the studio or kind of on the fritz.
This wasn't the weekend.
The current is still working out the installation on my heat pumps.
Today, they were up there with butane torches melting the ice a lot of bits so that they
could get the drain holes open there.
Because sometimes the deep frost increases.
You got a geothermal heat pump.
It's a geothermal.
It's just a, you know, it's a Fujitsu heat pump.
Oh, the air and air all tight.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So they're working that out.
I guess I'll be patient with a little longer.
Well, unfortunately, unfortunately, we've got a lot of wood.
Yeah.
It's actually going to cut in and, you know.
The best time to have a go on the fritz is the cold weather.
Because I got burned wood still hard anyway.
It's the 40, it's the like 25 to 45 degree range where it's the most useful.
Yeah, below 20, they don't even work.
Do they?
Yeah, well, they do.
I mean, they give some, they give some heat.
But they spend an awful lot of time going into the deep frost mode.
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
Because I don't think it's going to go off.
It's just the opposite way.
The coil outside freezes up now.
You know, it has to go into heating.
It's actually tries to heat itself outside.
It's a melt that reforts off the coils.
It's kind of crazy.
But it's helpful.
I mean, it probably, even at zero,
would probably keep the temperature in the building above freezing.
That much heat you do get out of it.
So.
And that's pretty much what it's for this time.
It's a back-to-feel system for half to be a way or, you know,
if it's not frozen.
Yeah, well, as I say, even with it going into the...
I mean, it probably continued to work,
but probably even less efficiently.
But it started to sound like a bus.
Sort of idling inside it.
When you were kid, you put the cards,
or your baseball cards on the spokes, the bicycle.
It started to sound like that.
Yeah.
The blue cards.
Not too much, you know.
Just getting ready for a trip starting tomorrow.
I'm glad to go.
I'm 10.
I'm 10.
That's how it's supposed to be.
Are we skiing or what?
This is my mom.
Yeah, but they're going to take you out.
They're going to take you out to have them.
Yeah.
They're going to train.
So where do they live, like, in the northwest part?
In Great Falls.
So it's kind of a little bit steep.
Less flat.
Because the train goes up and will cross kind of the top, right,
among Hannah?
Yeah.
You're taking the train from Minneapolis?
From Redwing.
Redwing is nicer because you don't have to pay to park,
and you don't have to worry about your car getting hired for moves.
I would have to be totally referring to you.
No, I was the city.
I was the city.
I went there before the bunny.
I went there to pick up my mom.
And there was a dodge.
I don't know what the newer dodge is.
Nice looking cars.
But how big.
Expandable to the car.
Garage, bike, or something.
And, uh, yeah, we drove by and I had to look at them.
It's up in N.C., right?
The park next to it.
What the hell?
Oh, the wheels are gone.
We jacked it up and set blocks.
There's chunks of wooden stuff on the wheels.
No, that's not in New York.
That was not unusual.
I didn't realize they actually did this.
I mean, I'm like, yeah.
We've seen a lot of them.
We've seen a lot of blocks in Times Square.
You get them up on blocks, no wheels.
All the windows next to it.
The radio removed.
You know.
Sometimes they stick.
Sometimes they stick.
You know.
That's it.
That's it.
So yeah.
Much of a city.
Why not talk?
There really is no cost for parking.
No.
We have a...
The city must be parked in their parking structure.
That's good to know.
That's nice.
Why not talk about it?
Isn't talk about closer?
No.
Actually.
Talk about it.
Well, then you've got to ride the train all the way back up about.
I don't know.
I have.
Yeah.
Because...
What was it?
I don't know what structure we're going to go.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So a Chicago would work here.
Yeah.
So let's say...
It's about a 22-hour train truck out there.
Do you have a sleep car?
No.
Well, is there...
Really?
Yeah.
It's like double the price.
Yeah.
For long hours.
That means that you cannot sleep there.
Well, the people that you're there...
Well, they don't need to...
People are like...
They can't sleep.
You didn't pay for sleeping.
So you need to keep your eyes open.
Yeah.
They can't turn off the seats and bend down.
Do they tell you exactly each stop on the ticket where you have to stop?
I mean, you just stay out and say, get there or...
Yeah.
They have to get off and get out of the car.
Well, you've got...
No.
There's no one training to do that.
They put a little tag above your seat that says, bring it off.
And then, like, for you're getting off...
Conductor, whatever.
Come walking through.
Make sure you're awake.
And go figure out how to get off.
And train travel is nice.
It is.
No, with us.
The only thing I know kind of funny is...
They've not once not been able to do it without taking somebody off the train for drinking too much.
What?
Really?
They'll take them off wherever they are.
If you get out, I mean, they'll just kick you off.
Some little tower that, you know, the only thing that comes through is the train.
You know?
They'll really kick you off.
Wake up sometime and you don't know where you are.
You wait next day and then you board it again.
They'll kick you off.
Do they have a dining car?
You can go and eat.
Yeah, they've got a dining car, the observation cars.
The food on them is really good, actually.
You've been on it before.
Yeah, sometimes really expensive with club cars.
It's like $8 for a sandwich.
Yeah, it's not cheap.
I mean, if you prepare it, but once you're on, you don't get off.
No, you get to stay on it.
Well, you know, if you were going to go...
If I was to go to Seattle, there's a split somewhere up there,
because one goes to Washington and one goes to Florida.
Yeah, it used to be you could get off anywhere and then get back on as long as you would.
Like the next day.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't know if they still allow that.
I don't know if you could still do that.
The airlines even used to allow that on cross-country flights,
but they definitely don't do that.
The airlines don't allow you to do anything.
They'd like this.
You would be stripped down naked, no luggage.
Yeah, I would.
$57, you know.
$15 a pair of pants.
Oh, they charge you $15 for a person.
You cannot be more than 35 pounds or whatever it is.
Give me, give me, give me.
I don't know.
Yes, that's what it is.
Cool.
How many days are going to be gone?
Friday to the next Sunday.
That's nice.
That's sweet.
So how long did you say it takes to get out there on train?
About 22 hours there.
That's assuming the train doesn't get snowed in,
or a freight train doesn't delay us.
Last time I did it, we had like a three hour delay,
because the freight train was on the track and was going really slow.
They have bypasses in some areas.
I wish they'd have more train stuff.
You know, even for business travelers.
Not because they can do your work while you're on it.
You know, he's going to test the infrastructure.
I mean, they have trains.
Yeah.
Train your feet are huge.
Yeah, they're full house chairs, you know.
Oh, yeah.
It's a nice way.
You know, in a hurry.
That's just it.
The speed is the only difference.
These cars is a little bit less pleasant.
I've traveled from like New York to Florida a couple of times.
And it's, you know, an awful lot of stopping and an awful lot.
It takes an awful lot of time.
I did from New York to Boston.
And I'm amazed how fast they cruised in neighborhoods.
Like back yard.
Yeah.
They go through a neighborhood.
And you're cruising like 60 miles an hour through a backyard.
That's how it sets on to your side.
I get on the metro from New York to Washington.
And by the way, I think it goes 110 miles an hour.
And it comes through.
It's a really cool thing.
Something to see.
The nice thing to do is go west on the train.
That's what we always used to do with students stand by days.
We used to fly to Chicago and then take the train westward.
And that was...
Well, that's what we say about ease going on, right?
Yeah.
Very definitely.
Rolls to go west.
Well, I think what's going on in the Iowa was called the Zephyr.
And it was really nice.
It was a nice train ride.
Very pleasant to come.
Cool.
Cool.
Thank you.
How about you?
Nothing much.
Other than I'm still trying to copy my walley seat on the...
Getting close to the movie DVD.
And you know how they try to screw you up.
I think I mentioned last time that every track or chapter of the movie was by gig and size.
So technically the DVD was like, you know, 500 or half a tear by a song.
Because if you're trying to pull it just using normal tools, it tastes forever.
But the DVD backup command, one word.
You know, a decent job of at least taking the exact DVD and putting it on your hard drive.
And so you would see the folders, the TS video and the Bobb files.
And those all came up with the correct size and everything from there.
Now I'm having problems now encoding any of these in ISO or whatever.
But I was reading some tricks on there.
I said, first off, the Bobb files.
Just put an endpig extension on them and they'll play it.
You can play them directly.
The problem is that you have four of them for the movie.
You have one meg inside or one gig inside.
What's a Bobb file do for it?
V-O-B.
And that's how it's...
You're just opening up the DVD on your PC and look at the file structure.
It's split up into Bobb files.
Like a video1.bob.
Video2.bob is the file name.
And so...
But if you just take that V-O-B and change it to mpeg, you can play it in your mpeg player.
If you don't have to...
If it's not encrypted, you...
Actually, if you double-click on it, the total will play it.
And you can.
And there's some tricks that I'm now trying to get the four Bobb files together.
And I have successfully used the Cat command.
And just say video plus video plus video.
But the problem is my audio dropped out.
You can take a look at the Abbott Mucks.
It's a video editor program.
It's mainly made for just fixing up videos.
But I think you can concatenate videos together like that.
That would help.
And then you can...
Yeah.
I just want one big file.
Like it's my popcorn hour.
I wonder why.
Is there any...
Is there any...
Is that actually totally equivalent?
Actually, I used both.
I did Cat.
Then you do the plus signs and then the greater.
When you do the plus signs, you are...
Those will be directing your standard output.
Yeah.
But they'll attend.
Is there any...
Is that a pure append and a cat?
I mean, just catting...
I think anything else will sound...
I don't know what cat is doing.
But what you are doing, you are taking the stream.
And you are putting it somewhere.
And you are...
You are appending a two existing file.
So you end up the first file and washed it.
Going to the second file, then the video didn't skip a beat.
It's just that lost in audio.
So it came out pretty clean that way.
So it's just one other little thing that is posing left here.
So look for a command there.
And then I'll be pretty close to having that movie as a file.
And so...
Here's a question.
When you stick an DVD in your DVD player or your computer,
is there a certain file that it looks at?
And that file tells what it is to read and what order it is to read and things like that?
That's almost like a little script.
That's not one of the VOM files?
No.
What's that thing called?
The IFO or so.
I forget what the...
There's several different formatted files in there that...
You know, when you put a DVD, you've got a file for your menus.
And for all those pre-use it goes through.
And then the legal disclaimer saying,
that's what's a copy and all that stuff.
Right.
It's got those marked as you cannot get this.
Oh, that's what you can't fast forward through my DVD player.
And there's...
Okay.
And so there, when they open source these movies,
they get rid of all those extra files.
You can't, if you want.
And you can copy it directly,
adjusting to make an exact duplicate.
Depending on the player, too,
it doesn't have to honor what that file is.
Right.
You can put it into some PCs,
and you just click fast forward,
or if not fast forward,
but next track, next track,
and you'll just stick through all of them.
Right to the menu.
You can hit all of them.
You can hit just menu.
The right to the menu.
And a lot of these authoring DVDs,
author will convert that to like an XML file,
it describes how that DVDs put together.
Okay.
And programs like Hue, DVD, author,
that's what they do is they take the videos
and then put that file together.
So that that's got all the menuing system.
And once you get done with this video,
then jump to this video.
Once you click on a button,
go to this video, that sort of stuff.
You mean like in the menu of the DVD?
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
And DVD author is a Linux program
that actually allows you to make your own DVD menus
and all that.
So you copy your video off a camera,
digital camera,
make several different tracks.
Oh, I see.
Put a menu for like kids' graduation,
Christmas time, whatever.
You can create your own full DVD
and with full menuing system and everything.
Wow.
Here's that program.
So I'm going to capitalize it up,
open up the menu.
I think I've got a video of some of this.
Perfect.
So what program are we on?
Tough, tough, tough,
eight months.
And have a month.
So then it allows you to cut
and everything and that.
And then you, I believe you can
they can re-transcode.
Okay. So whatever you want.
It's the only thing I had
that was available.
So how would you get a second track in there?
Oh, you got a pen.
Okay.
I'll try that.
And yeah, you can do some other things too,
like they've got probably the ADI file.
You can change print rates.
You can add a whole bunch of different software.
So it's kind of a neat little program
for cleaning stuff off of a track.
That's all I did.
What can you feed into this program?
Yeah.
It's an install.
We just haven't used it.
Pretty much any videos.
Looks like they had almost any container.
Any...
Yeah.
That's all there.
MPEG4.
MPEG2.
DB.
Like straight video.
HTC3.
MJPEG.
BDI.
You get a lot of...
Yep.
You get a lot of...
You can even put it out to play.
HTC3 is on there.
Yeah.
MPEG3.
MPEG2.
You don't have to run.
I've used it a couple of times to shift audio
that was decent.
And you can also stretch the audio
so it matches and all that.
It's a neat little program.
So do we have a fire?
All right.
I got a big long list of things that I did here.
Okay.
So I made some business cards.
They will look it on see if they like them.
You were really thinking of something.
Okay.
Okay.
This one matches you.
In patient.
Take one and pass it around.
And take the slutty one.
There's only seven.
I don't want people to see the slutty one.
Oh, there are all these different?
No, they're all the same.
Oh.
So the slutty one.
Okay.
So I don't know.
You can take...
What do you say?
Smuddy, you're smuddy.
They're...
Smuddy.
Oh, you're...
I have to go ahead and eat that one.
The toner guy could...
He made a little smudge on the paper.
So...
Smudge eight.
Because I didn't want to see the smudge one.
Actually, that's pretty darn good in your ears.
Yes.
Yeah.
I thought these turned out pretty good.
You're supposed to take one?
Uh, just take a look at them.
This is all printed off your...
Yeah.
Do you have new printers?
Yeah.
The whole...
This is just the way these papers start with.
Yep.
Yeah.
They're nice.
Yeah.
They're nice.
Yeah.
It's kind of hard to see.
Yeah.
I really hard to see the...
Poor lighting in here.
I'll say that you look at a hologram.
You don't?
That's pretty good.
Yeah.
You have to get a hologram on it.
Okay.
Not quite.
So, I don't know what you could take a look at that.
That looks good.
Okay.
I didn't get to drink a lot of water all the time.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
You could take a look at that.
That looks good.
Okay.
I didn't get to drink a lot of water all the time.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know if people gather their other table and someone's litter room in.
We're missing the dice.
So...
I guess I can wait until it's gonna get back but...
This kind of led me on to the next thing I've got to talk about.
Inkscape.
Inkscape?
Inkscape.
Why wouldn't you?
Inkscape.
Well, I made...
I made this with Inkscape and really no worries with this.
I just started as a PNG, the flyer I wanted to export it to a PDF.
I exported it to PDF, and there were lines going across, like white lines.
Couldn't figure out what's going on.
I couldn't figure out what's going on.
I exported it to a PNG, it looks fine.
What's the hack? Why would it work with a PDF?
Found out, Inkscape doesn't export gradient to PDF.
So what it did was it took my gradient, chopped it up into block,
back the blocks on top of each other,
and because the floating point in accuracy is a nice white line between everyone.
So I had the business card, I don't quite have the flyer
because the PNG for the flyer was over 7 meg.
A little bit.
But the flyer generally looks about the same.
I could actually pop it up here.
We're doing a great job. Keep it up.
I think it looks good.
You need to set it down there.
Yeah, and that is the other thing.
I'll leave into that as soon as I pop this up.
Is there anything more here?
Brown did you?
Try using myth TV to rip that TV at all.
I have a myth TV running at home.
You don't?
No.
Is that a single maybe?
There are things that a lot of the programs want to rip it down to something.
I want to make that your pop TV.
Well, so myth TV will rip it to an ISO.
And that's what I'm trying to get is to an ISO.
Any program looks at it and because of the file sizes,
screw up.
They don't come on.
See, where are you?
There's a problem with that.
I wish I was going to hang the problem.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
I was going to be afraid.
Yeah.
You're going to be able to be backed up.
It also takes care of errors.
Because they purposefully put errors on the DVD.
They will bypass those and fill them in with blanks.
No, there's a curve.
Fan line tool.
Yeah.
DVD backup is just a command line tool.
And you can very like the input output file.
And in a way, it goes in a way as it's copying.
This is DVD backup.
Backup aka open source.
Move.
Now open source.
Does this make open source movie?
It makes open source movie.
DVD backup.
And if you're trying to read it,
and just ran a system.
It's good.
It's good.
But my kind of zip TV just uses the tools that
probably even use a tool like DVD backup.
You know, DVDs come there.
I think DVDs are kind of in everything,
but just makes it.
You know, I don't know because, you know,
when you play, if I move back today,
what it does when you do DVD backup,
it will take the name of the DVD,
create a folder, and then fill the structure
and it needs it just like you were looking at the DVD name.
So it's all the files and everything are originally there.
So if I were to go to play it,
I don't know if it's encrypted still,
or if it's just unencrypted.
I would imagine it would be an exact duplicate.
Myth TV uses M player to play stuff underneath the hood.
What you could do, you could play the DVD with M player
and pipe it out to an uncompressed format,
start the uncompressed format.
You know, that's what I think is why I can't someone develop
something like that.
If you can play it,
if you can play it,
why can't you just be able to,
at that time, just put it out to a file again
while it's playing.
I mean, you can maybe play the DVD.
Well, I think it's like the heroes that I have do exactly that.
I want to say it's what cognitive scenes
to do.
Because really, I don't care about the ripping time
because I can run it overnight,
and I don't care about compressing or changing the format
or trying to cut down the file size.
So you figured it very,
because I really want to make an exact duplicate
by destroying the DVD.
I can re-create it again if I needed to with a new DVD right here.
I've used the program Fog and a few times,
it brings it to an odd file,
or an OGM file,
so I think you tend to do some performance.
That almost seems like what you're doing.
Let's take everything.
And then the movie will be playing
with your window in the program while it's creating the file.
So I wonder if it's just straight scale,
but framed by frame, you know, piece by piece.
Because I know when they do the DVDs,
they, where the DVD companies do,
I mean, it's not a straight linear image on the DVD.
It's not like it took one megabyte to go
for the first 30 minutes,
and then two megabytes for 30 minutes.
They find scenes where it's black,
and they'll compress it down,
and it'll be a variable compression
as it moves through the movie.
So it's a little more,
so it might be difficult for a program
to go the same thing.
I haven't used it much,
because it's written well.
I can't actually fit it on my screen.
My 1200 by 800 isn't enough for it,
and you can't resize it.
You have a small screen.
You have to buy a bigger screen.
It's old.
It's like three years old.
Maybe get a cheap second one,
because it's side by side.
I'm upgraded.
Yeah, absolutely.
I've always upgraded the other machine.
I don't know if I'm allowed to upgrade.
You don't want to say the offer
is going to be running on.
Next is not even running right now.
I'm going to download it in three days.
Have you tried it?
I'm planning to install Linux on it,
as soon as I get my Xbox to play games on.
I'm sick of playing games like PC.
But you might not be able to find actually
as many games.
You know,
something is not actually released on Xbox.
What is, let's say, 4 PC.
There's only a couple of games I play in there.
I mean, when did you get it?
You do.
You do.
I'm going to have some ninjas.
That's what I'm going to tell you.
Brian, have you tried playing a...
That's not only your DVD drive to your popcorn hour
you have to see if that will rip communities?
That won't rip,
because they said the popcorn hour doesn't do...
Well, that's the recording movies discussion.
If you see it, it has to record.
But I don't think it has an output capability.
And you can hook a drive up.
You can hook a drive up and treat it just like a DVD player.
So we'll go, we'll work that one.
I just wanted to have everything actually.
What do you have?
The neurons?
Yeah, you play, you basically hook any DVD player
and just put them in your output to the nerves.
And it makes an empty four out of it.
So you're using neurons to decode?
No, and the...
It just records.
It's just basically recording.
Because you're just sending signal in there.
And then you add the player with the...
It doesn't copy the disk or the...
It uses the player in the keyboard to do that.
It just takes over that.
It comes out.
Or the YouTube that comes in on the network
it doesn't create the YouTube type file.
It creates its own type of file.
But basically any output.
I mean, it's different in the sense than using the double deck.
You know, the deck that has the VHS and DVD.
I mean, copy VHS to DVD and vice versa.
But it's got something in there that won't let you do that.
It's an encrypted thing.
It does not have that.
There's also a turtle beach thing.
What's that called?
It's a...
It's a thing you can stick into your computer
that basically will also just take any video output from any source
and make various kinds of files out of it.
But you don't end up with a disk.
I mean, then you can turn around and...
Put it back out.
Put it back out and use your video DVD recorder
to make a DVD out of it.
And if you close the thing that they call closing disk.
If you close the disk, it'll light up the play on any computer
or anything that you want to play on.
The other thing that you have an issue with downloading open source movies.
Because while he's out there...
Yeah, while he's out there in 1080p, 720p, DVD, RIP.
Technically, if you own the disk, I can type that illegal.
Yeah, at home.
That's right.
We just optioned, really giving it out.
We just bought a movie, or whatever.
And there were actually two movies.
Two disk, and one was, I think, MPEC four-file.
And the other one was DVD.
They just did that with all of it.
They said you can buy the unencoded or the...
What?
It was a violation of some place in there that it's not fully...
It was more like a less resolution or something like that.
I don't know.
I didn't try it.
I can't imagine they'd release it unencrypted.
It was more expensive.
It was like a collector edition.
It had a dollar.
I think it's just like a plus five dollars or something.
It was like $24.
Okay.
So you could take your movie.
I don't have to do it.
I need to do it for you.
They do it for you.
Just copy it off the thing.
Yeah.
Oh, the big argument.
Like, if you watch those things...
There's probably enough 10 acres of that.
If you watch those things, podcasts.
What they're arguing is that if you buy something,
and you have various technologies that you could view your material on,
you should be allowed to watch it on your iPod or watch it on your TV set
or watch it on your computer,
and that that's not a violation of fair use.
That's the only thing.
But copyright holders don't like fair use.
Because they want to...
Right.
...too much...
...couching as they...
...paint the effects on the data.
Well, that's the thing.
Personally, I feel that that kind of restriction of use of any information
is not really in the water on an elephant thing.
But then use to spread people differently.
They want their money.
Yeah.
They're the ones who may have the money that they make the laws.
Well, the Mickey Mouse was what it was.
Will.
Will.
Will.
Willy?
Yeah, I will.
Willy, Steve O'Willey.
So it was, it was in the original creation of...
world of Disney. Right. And right now it's copyrighted and nobody can do it.
I mean, you know, historically, I've said this before, but I think the history and the facts show
that too much restriction on that kind of stuff actually impedes creativity because the one, you know,
semi-valid argument for copyright is that somebody should be rewarded for their efforts to do something creative.
But in the long run, I think most many, most certainly a lot of creative people I know really don't agree with that.
They feel that having to watch too carefully about, you know, where they're getting their sources from.
So it's never wild in Shakespeare. I mean, you rip off anybody you felony.
You know, so I mean, it's an argument. But I mean, you do want people to get some
remuneration for their efforts when they're created as persons. But...
But at this point, you walk doesn't it? Yeah. See, at this point, what's happened is that the big companies for purely,
you know, business type reasons have sucked all the power into their corner.
And you're just continuing to try to bring that up.
Because if you have to pay for the knowledge, I mean, what would be our living on is just the knowledge, you know,
living on those shoulders of the giants.
So if you have to pay for the older knowledge and older knowledge is not available,
that will reduce us to, you know, nothing.
It's the humanizing. I mean, that's what Takeshensky's whole thing.
That's the uniform, I think. It doesn't recognize the name.
But he is an objective parking meter. So you know how outrageous that somebody charges you for space you're going to occupy.
You know, we'll put on a planet. You have a right to be wherever we have to be.
You know, it says we have to pay to be there. You know, I mean, in a way if you think about it.
That's why he said those bombs because they don't want to...
Well, he's the objective people who were impinging upon his human space, he felt.
So that's why he's...
That's why he's sent it to university.
He's eliminated a few fingers to make his point.
You know what I'm saying?
No, no.
I don't agree with his means.
Yeah.
And I'll put this right on.
I think he got a point.
I still think that's what killed Sony's music format, the A-Track.
That's why he's sending that to Sony.
Sony A-Track?
Sony A-Track.
The letter A-Track.
They had...
I think they had...
I think they had...
I think they had...
I think they had...
I think they had...
The mini-discs.
Oh, the mini-discs.
Yeah, the mini-discs.
You have the A-Track audio compression format.
And honestly, I used it for years and I...
I suppose it's sort of that it's better than anything I've ever heard before.
It's for compression and sound quality.
But it was so locked down that so much control over the hardware,
wouldn't when anybody touched it, they just basically suffocated it themselves.
Well, they did that over and over and over.
Yeah.
They made the same mistakes as beta.
I mean, if you look at beta in a VHS, you can tell the difference it's written on,
which is where it's written.
But beta, you try to get a beta cassette now.
I mean, it's just...
That's just frustrating.
They made...
Oh, there's three stuff.
They have good technology.
It's just that they ended up killing it over and over again.
They do it themselves, too.
I mean, if they do so much as let, you know, open source the format
that could have continued to make hardware.
They don't even open source.
They've maybe licensed it a little bit, not as restrictive.
I don't think you could buy a third-party piece of hardware that did a track.
It was only Sony all the time and they wanted to control or roll it.
Yeah.
I think the result is, you know, they go away.
The place where the folks have an argument is some of the, like, the after-and-sav strikes now,
I mean, are proposed strikes.
These are the people who feel that they should get a cut of DVD sales when they're creating,
when their talent and creative work is on the disk.
And of course, the producers are trying very hard not to give them anything, you know.
But there you see where the motives of the people who run in the business really show true.
Because if anybody has an argument that they should get some residuals on a DVD
that's distributed when you're the actor in it or the writer, you know, for that.
They definitely have a case.
But the hardware manufacturers, I can't understand why they don't see this in their own interest
to disseminate that stuff as widely as possible, you know.
And it doesn't seem to me to be necessary to be that competitive.
I think a lot of those technologies could code this personally.
Look at Apple, you know, and he's posting pretty good with the proprietary stuff.
It's a lot easier to make a dollar now than two dollars later.
So if you can make a dollar now and leave it closed so that you're the only one who can do it,
it's a lot better than, you know, years down the road.
You're making a whole bunch of money because it's your format everywhere.
Hard to track the investors too with that model.
Right, you're starting up a company investor who want to see money
and they want to see it now, not 10 years down the road.
So if you come up with a part of the two, yeah.
Come up with something that makes money now and who cares what it does in the year.
That's probably what they're doing.
You'll be retired and have your cash pay up by the minute.
Yeah.
We're tired of going to the market.
I don't know.
Okay, what else do you have for us?
I showed you, I've got the flyer.
Now the problem with it, I kind of explained it while you were on a beer run.
Inkscape doesn't export gradients to PDF.
It exports them at blocks of solid area and doesn't line the blocks up right.
So I can't export it to PDF.
So I can only export it as PNG.
Okay.
It's a high enough resolution to print it.
It comes out to about seven mags.
Okay.
So I can send it to you if it's about seven mags.
That's fine.
Okay.
Send it to you.
Now, along with that, when I printed these out, you can't tell they look green.
They're not green.
They're actually kind of more of a teal color.
And I wasn't expecting that because as far as I could tell, they look green.
It's blue, blue, green.
Yeah, it's blue, blue, green.
So what I ended up doing, I inkscape went and I made a color chart.
Color space.
That actually, it goes through the entire RGB spectrum and prints out all the different RGB values.
That's very technical.
Cool.
So what's the point?
What do you get to pick one?
Pretty much.
What do you get by all together and average it?
When you're picking the color on the screen, you don't know what it's going to look like.
Yeah.
You have no idea what it's going to look like.
So instead of picking the color on the screen, you look at the sheet.
Oh, I get it.
Get the three values here.
Okay.
Regardless how it goes up here.
That's what it's going to look like when it prints out because that is the color of the screen.
Oh, so you're assigning the color rules on the screen.
Yep.
And you can actually buy these.
And actually, they have, there's three different modes of color that graphics really work with.
There's the CMYK, the RGB.
But then there's also something called Pantone.
Now, Pantone is really what you want.
But you have to pay a licensing fee to use it.
And what Pantone is, it says that this particular color right here is named this.
So if you go into Photoshop and you pick, you know, color red three,
you are guaranteed that it will look exactly like that.
You're going to have a system to move it.
Yeah.
All of the professional printing shops, they have their Pantones printed out.
And they pretty much calibrate their systems.
The red three looks like that everywhere.
So you can pick Pantone colors and be sure that it's going to come out exactly how you want to come out.
Sort of like PDF did for the document.
You know, wherever you print a PDF document.
Realist is a Mac and Apple.
Yeah.
So what are the differences between that and assigning it a RGB value?
Because an RGB value doesn't necessarily specify what the real value is.
Right.
RGB is interpreted by this.
But you may have another computer system like a cray or something that doesn't understand RGB.
But if they support Pantones.
Kind of like guarantee that it'll work.
It also depends on your partner.
You're going to have a monitor on your partner.
Right.
Right.
RGB is between 0 and 100.
What's 100?
What's 0?
It depends on the monitor.
On this screen, 0 is not complete black.
It's actually a gray color.
White is not complete white.
It's actually a gray color.
It's different.
It's going to look different on my screen versus on there in RGB color.
But you can buy monitors and printers that are Pantone and they're calibrate.
They've got calibrate.
You can actually buy a USB device that you have in suction attached to your monitor that will calibrate your monitor.
And it's got to be, you know, it's like it's a paint story.
They have devices that you can put a sample underneath it.
You'll be done.
I'm ready to see what it is.
And actually, you can go one step outside of Pantone.
Pantone is actually based on a system called Month Cell.
And you can, for quite a lot of money, buy a set of very, very elegantly produced chips.
Color chips in the Month Cell system.
I mean, it's expensive.
I mean, I don't know.
25 years ago, the advertising company already posted 35 years ago.
You know, the advertising company, you know, right.
It was like $3,000 for this box, a little piece of tile that had color span on it.
And on the back of that, it translates into various things like RGDs, hands up.
You can actually read the back of the chip.
It'll tell you what the equivalent is in about, oh, I don't know.
What there was about 30 different color systems that they indexed each of these Month Cell chips, too.
So this is going to be very complicated.
People who are totally hung up on getting exactly the right color.
I don't know.
It was paying for the color of the background of the red.
They really wanted it to be a precise color.
It's the most appealing.
It can't be this shade of red.
It's going to be a little bit with an orange.
Yeah.
Exactly.
I thought this was a, you know, a green color.
And you look at it in full white.
It's not green.
It's actually very good.
It's in either dodge of your place.
Because that's going to look different in every color in white.
Right.
Well, I looked at it in white, white, in white.
That's not green.
And actually, I looked, and the printer doesn't actually, well, I'm using RGB color.
Tell me me.
I've got a CDYK printer.
Yeah.
Because it's, you know, a color laser.
It's got the fourth color.
I'll tell you something, even screw your color.
If you look at this and then shift your eyes, the colors are the same.
Yes.
And if you look at this.
If you look at your image and you're flooring, when you're calibrating your eyes to see colors.
And so, right.
Color is a completely flat, fluid thing.
There's no such thing.
I know color.
And if you look at the CMYK on there, you can see that the, or, if you look at the RGB.
There's down at the bottom.
There's RGB.
You can see that as they get darker, they actually shift huge.
So the red doesn't say red.
It actually goes to slight blue hue and then goes to black.
And then there's something called top tone.
Some inks and figments actually have something called top tone.
You know, the color actually looks different, whether you're looking straight on it or looking at it at an angle.
Which, of course, any LCD monitor also.
Great.
How about we just call it gray scale?
So, yeah.
New yellow gray scale.
I've liked it already.
So anyway, that's like a long one.
That's what I mean to create that document there.
And I printed it out.
This is just a proof.
That's not the...
Gray scale is indeed quite interesting.
Because you say the same thing.
It takes something like paint shot.
And try to make it like 10 bands of color of gray.
That actually appear to be equidistant.
That's a little sperm that you can trust.
Take a sheet and divide it into 10 columns.
And try to arrange them so that you think you have 10 equally spaced shades of gray.
So you see how long it takes you to do that.
And then when you can come down to...
You do what your eye thinks is equally spaced.
And then see what your sliders say.
And whether or not...
What your eye see actually agree with the mathematics
that the algorithm that the computer uses to do that.
All right.
So about halfway done.
So that led me into the inkscape tutorials.
And actually it's...
I don't know if anybody has ever looked at it.
But they've got some really, really nice inkscape tutorials.
And they're actually fairly nice tutorials on using inkscape.
And doing some really complex stuff.
Inkscape tutorials...
Oh.
That's not going to work.
That is going to work.
You can scan it to your computer.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The first one there.
All right.
A list.
Yep.
So it's just...
You know, like the first one there is creating that in the inkscape.
How to draw that.
So if you're interested in how to do anything in inkscape,
this is definitely something to take a look at.
You can learn quite a bit from going through these tutorials.
Thanks.
Thermosubscibe.
The Thermosubscibe.
Podcast.
Was it for inkscape?
It was your...
The next reality had a couple of sessions on inkscape with the tutorial.
But, there is the whole podcast just for tutorials.
For...
I think it's for inkscape.
Oh, yeah.
There's a lot of the graphic sites.
There's lots of online tutorials for Photoshop inkscape.
Because it's a lot.
Because...
Because the three programs inkscape, blender and what is the third one?
Here you can...
Publishing.
For pub...
Scribes?
Scribes.
They actually...
I have them mixed together.
I cannot have myself.
But I think that all these games, there is a podcast and tutorial site for doing stuff like that.
And actually it's a video.
So you can be watching how to do it.
Oh, yeah.
10 minutes.
Yes.
That's what it is.
Screencast.
I think I've seen some of those.
Yeah.
Those are good as well.
I just saw that.
It's something interesting.
Alright.
So that led me to my...
What?
Visiting.
Yeah.
I was very busy.
I should give you more beers.
We're at nothing to do here.
We're at nothing to do here.
We didn't have any.
We didn't even relax, man.
So that got into the walk on tablet.
I have a drawing tablet.
Yes.
And the big issue with that was...
You had to have it plugged in when X started because X was the program that really drove all the configurations for it.
Well, they've got this new demon that runs in the background called W Demon.
And it simulates the pad.
So that when you plug in the pad, it takes all the signals and passes them through to X.
But when X starts up, it thinks the pad is plugged in.
So it configures everything like it was plugged in.
So I thought that was kind of interesting that you could unplug it and plug it in.
And X thinks it's there.
But it's really not until you plug it in.
And I have to try my pad and Linux again because I kind of have the pads.
The force to using Windows to keep it working smooth.
It actually works really nice.
I mean, I can show you...
I've got it with me.
I can show you later exactly what it does.
Yeah.
So I thought that was kind of interesting.
That's the Fedora.
This is...
That's with Fedora 10.
But I don't know.
I'm sure that these programs are also available.
How is it?
It was...
It's actually...
What about the Linux project?
Linux project.
Isn't it?
Is that what they call it?
Linux project.
I don't know.
It was created in November 15, 2007.
So I don't know.
What was W...
WACOM.
Yeah.
On the pad really just worked.
I had to set up a few settings in X to get everything working.
But like the pressure sensitivity worked great.
You know, the eraser worked.
All the buttons worked.
So...
But how did it work?
The demon?
It was just W.
W didn't...
Like that?
A-E, I think it is.
A-D-A-E-M-O-N.
D-A-E.
It's not an A-M-L-M-R, except...
D-A-E.
A first.
A before E, except after D.
The left hand before D.
Wait.
Left hand, pinky.
B-E.
B-E.
Not...
Yeah.
Everyone.
Everyone.
Okay.
That's it.
That's it, that's it, that's it.
Let's go.
Y'all got it.
You hit D.
Up.
Enter.
D.
Hey!
She W, David.
That's not the same thing.
That's not the same thing.
It's not the same thing.
It's not the same thing.
So I don't know.
It might be something fairly new.
You got it.
It says it's also called the Hot Plug Helper for Wacom.
Well, it goes from Parle and Serial Port.
Might as well speak.
So.
So then, if I was going to be working?
I'm sure the demon wasn't just fine.
Well, well, anyway, that's another thing.
Well, can you explain who went to Spain there?
Or Mexico.
Longest in Spain.
It's Spain.
Role.
Italy.
Italy.
We explained what the demon is.
Who drew it?
Who drew it?
No.
I spy on Artisan Axe Gunther.
Yes.
He probably got a dollar in there.
He's trying to know if a family is basically her.
She just moved to California for our wedding present.
And going to my house, take what you want.
I don't know.
So we said, OK.
Cool.
OK.
Two more things.
OK.
And I'm going to go.
Two more.
Wow.
Be very related.
These don't fit in those.
Yeah.
I agree.
You can take my tummy.
You can take it.
You have to redo the beginning.
You've got to say, this is the virus.
Well, I'm going to do this.
And then it's going to come three weeks later.
And I want it back.
No.
I don't know.
I just was one of those weeks.
I got...
I looked at that Cayden live script.
And I got it to compile.
And I got it working.
And it's a 90% rule.
They hit 90% with the last release.
So they decided it's time to rewrite it.
And now it crashes all the time.
It's horrible.
I can't even use it.
It crashes so much.
What's it supposed to do for you?
It's a non-linear video editor.
Oh.
Let me see.
So it...
Yeah.
They had it.
And they're like, oh, yep.
It's bold rewrite.
It's really great.
And yes.
It's like Windows rewrite...
They did rewrite TCP.
I think it's that.
Oh.
Wow.
We'll see if that works.
Yeah.
I mean, that's real great.
Here.
I can show it in real quick.
There's probably the single biggest reason I'm helping.
I'm buying a machine to play games on other than Windows PC.
Because my network always holds down.
I can.
Connect to it.
Hang on.
Questions instead of off.
No, it's like with movie files.
I try to transfer movie backer.
It'll just drop after a couple hundred megs.
It'll just decide to give off pretty stuff.
Well, what?
Uh...
Did you update the firmware on the router just to...
This is not the router.
It's the...
You're trying to...
PVT.
PTV.
I can have a Linux virtual machine running inside the Windows box.
That's fine.
I don't...
I don't...
Is that transfer files on my wireless all the time?
I mean...
That's not even wireless.
I never do.
I mean, some...
Or...
Uh...
Just...
I mean...
FTP, this and that.
I can, you know,碰 the gate gate files back and forth.
So, I mean, it's just...
You know, it's got the full, uh...
All the video tracks down here.
And you just lay out your videos however you want them.
And then you can add transitions in between them.
It's got a whole list of effects that you can do.
Oh.
It's...
It's real.
It's got all the features.
It's right there.
It just...
It crashes all the time.
Oh.
What do you...
Yeah, well...
You think it's your...
You're ready.
You think you're ready?
You think you're ready for...
Katie for...
Yes.
Okay.
See?
There you have it.
I could use it past about four minutes before it just...
Let's see if there's Windows Movie Maker.
I mean, Windows Movie is like three minutes, so that's even better.
Yeah, and you know, I...
I do realize that...
Like, there it goes.
It just crashed on it.
Hi, I'm Ben.
But do they...
I think it would you koshered in and build an...
A random save function because they realize it will crash?
Yes, they did actually.
And it asks you.
Do you want to enable this highly recommender?
Yeah.
Why does that stuff happen?
Well, you know...
Our program sucks.
Don't worry.
Even the professional...
You know, editors aren't that stable.
I don't know if it's just that difficult to do or...
What the deal is, but...
Like, even Adobe Premiere...
Has like an auto save that saves every two minutes.
Because...
Who knows when it's going to go down.
So, I really don't even have that home.
Yeah.
My guess is that probably, you know, you have all the encoding
and all the special stuff.
They skimp on the checking of the data going through there.
You know, it gets performance.
Yeah.
You know, sometimes it gets a lot.
And sometimes it comes back to volume.
But that's really what every software package
advertises were the fastest.
You know, we can code it.
Oh, so if you're going to get that, you'll have to.
Right.
We can get your final movie to be a faster.
Did it use that as a big crash to fastest?
Yeah.
What?
That is only key.
We don't advertise that.
We need one to advertise with zero death crystals.
Zero death?
Yeah.
We need that live, definitely.
We have zero death crystals.
Can it live definitely needs last death crystal?
It does.
Yeah.
Very well.
It could be something on my PC too.
I don't know.
But yeah, it just wasn't stable.
And then the last thing I got.
You sure?
This is kind of a true part of it.
Oh.
Oh.
Just a second.
I was looking at three parts.
Nana.
Banshee went through.
And he got all my cover art.
He got one wrong.
Where does it store cover?
In the folder.
No, it doesn't.
No, it isn't there.
Well, there's a couple places.
One more.
Yes.
Okay.
A new portion of the store.
Okay.
A minor clue is coming up.
Okay.
Okay.
It stores it in your home directory called .cash.
And then inside there there's a folder called album art.
Ah.
Okay.
And that's where it puts all your album art as well as stuff
that downloads for last FM songs as playing.
Okay.
But basically what I did is I deleted everything out of there
and put the album art in the actual folder where it ripped it to.
And it will, as long as it doesn't have anything in that cache folder,
it will default was in.
Okay.
So if I get rid of it in there and then have it repulled.
Because that's the problem.
The service that it gets it off of was right.
But for some reason it pulled the wrong one the first time.
And then it won't repull it.
Yes.
You've got to.
So, okay.
I was looking and looking and I couldn't find anything that said where I'm actually well.
You've got to delete it out and then put the one you want in the album.
Okay.
And then like replay the disc or something.
It'll still flash a bunch of different sizes and versions of it into that cache folder.
Because it uses a different size for the one for the disc image.
It's just for the one that it displays.
Well, it's due to my playing.
So it makes like four versions of it or something.
But I thought it was stuff that was there.
Well, those are.
Yeah.
It pulled the wrong one again.
So I'll have to go in there and put the right one in there.
I had all the odd stuff I have.
There was only one album cover I didn't find.
And one that it pulled a correct A correct album cover.
Not the correct one.
Yeah.
I got one that it didn't pull the correct one.
It pulled any album cover.
I got another one that it didn't pull the right cover at all.
Pulled the wrong album.
I've got one.
And I've got one really weird artist.
I might know.
Got one more didn't pull anything.
Where does it pull those from?
No, I actually looked into that to find out exactly what that was.
And that's what I'm leaning into.
It pulled it from music brains.
Now, they're a website apparently.
They've got like.
That's the last step that we're talking about now.
No, it's like a music brains.
It's just a site that has information about all of these.
And it's all open source.
It's a program called music brains.
They actually the program is called Picard.
It was actually in the repositories.
It is called Picard.
Picard music brains.
The best thing about this program is that instead of an OK button,
they have a button that says make it so.
Oh, I got it.
I've got a letter.
I've got a letter.
Who is the winner of the Windows version?
Well, I see you can stand for life forms.
It doesn't say life forms, but it does say stand.
I want to see what you can say.
I don't know where that is.
It says the artist is.
It's like the artist's party.
Actually, yeah.
This has all of the information about the CDs.
And if you download this program, then you can go in,
you can edit the information so that you're helping,
you know, if your CD is wrong,
you can feed that information back to them
and tell them, hey, this information's wrong.
This is the right information.
If you have a new CD that's not in the library,
In Picard we'll go so far as to not just look at the name of the song, but it actually
analyzes the trial itself and compares a hash to something that's been on the audio file
to figure out what it is. And it's not actually even a true hash,
it actually listens to the music, so you can have different encodings of it
at different pit rates. You can say, well
I might give the name the disc and have kind of the right name of the song
and we'll kind of take all the stuff into it.
Yeah, so I thought that was really interesting. I downloaded that, I didn't really get it too much for
a chance to play with it, but I thought I would mention it. That's it, I'm done.
I agree with you. You were dreaming a lot of Red Bull as we should.
No, I just didn't. I don't know, I just didn't have anything else.
I've been going to bed early.
I'm going to go to bed early.
Yeah, we've been going to bed early.
Yeah, she's going to second check.
That one's in home until like 1130.
Holy cow.
Alright, you know what?
Get it out with that.
That energy goes away.
I haven't done anything.
I have computerized.
It's cold.
It's cold.
It's cold.
It's what I do.
I just told the day I'm a very negative person.
It takes a lot of people.
I just told them all day in the morning.
So I guess I have to be positive if I make the beer and then I give it to people.
No, it's better people.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Some reason people don't like eating walkin' up at six in the morning.
It's a bad job.
I don't know what to do.
I can't imagine.
I liked that if I got drunk at any time.
Yeah, especially at six in the morning.
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 9.
I don't like it.
Yeah, guys are the worst thing.
Yeah.
I was about to get myシルク out of there.
In 2021.
Do you want me to play the Sutton Glocks OverThere?
I wanted to lay down.
Let me be here with it.
Keep those bodies fluidized for me.
Anyway, Dr. Tomy, you need to have four beers a day.
Hey.
Oh, yeah, keep this with me, I have to talk to you a little bit more about it than you call me every day.
Well, you do a very good job making beer though, my goodness.
Oh, thank you. The stuff was all standing, this is very good too.
I like this stuff.
This is very good. The stuff was just really good too, I just...
Yeah, that's good.
Actually, this is my first home grand badge.
So, straight on the business.
I'm glad you guys like this.
And it's fun to make it.
And I need to have a people who drink it.
How was your most profitable running the Linux group?
You don't get a big margin all the time.
I think you're a little bit more in the hall, but it's possible.
Yeah.
Open source beer.
Open source beer.
Well, there is actually new...
There's new store.
Homebrew and the Y-making store.
Children.
They call it cabs and corks.
Where is it?
It's behind the boxes.
And I didn't...
In King's Plaza.
You know, there's a Greek place.
They call it a Greek place.
So, it's...
That's good place.
There's a Greek restaurant.
It's really good too.
They sell cameras.
Oh, it's kind of like a fancy shutdown.
No, it's nothing.
Oh, but the guy...
The guy is really weird, but if you're doing a lot of work...
You're like a lunch place.
Yeah, but you can have dinner there too.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah.
A lot of people take a look.
I've been there a lot of people come in now.
And he's been there forever.
As long as I remember him in here.
I can actually use their stylists.
Yeah, you have to.
Because this is actually a circuit board.
A circuit board.
A circuit board.
A circuit board.
A circuit board.
A circuit board.
I thought I'd get what done.
I have to go back.
I have to go back.
The different device.
See.
So there's a eraser.
See?
What?
It all set about for each other.
He's right in mode.
He's...
I'll go back to mode.
By when mobier?
By when mobier?
By when mobier?
By when mobier?
By when mobier?
What about it?
I forgot some door.
I thought he went down to the talking.
Hey, I'm done.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I want to go back.
Besides for her work being...
Pogacle?
Oh, I've been there.
Can you write for Christmas?
I finally finished making my Christmas cards last night.
So, what can you do now?
I already gave up on making Christmas cards.
It's nice to get a Christmas card just here.
Yeah.
Do you write?
No.
I don't write.
Do you guys want to do a bar with Link's group Christmas card?
No, just my family.
I'll get you a link.
You can check it twice.
What are all these answers?
They're going to buy two dollar stamps for them.
There's always less people overseas to send.
People that I had right before.
It was a cost to send a letter to get your own play.
I have no idea.
Not a lot.
Like maybe a dollar.
It depends on the way.
Oh, pretty cheap.
80 cents a dollar.
It's holiday.
So.
What do you think about it?
No.
Great.
Is the triple APC still working fine?
I don't know.
So nice.
There are people.
They have big fingers like me.
I don't like you.
Good.
Good.
Cool.
Yeah, usually keyboard and stuff.
Yeah, the only thing is just my head is like issue with the space bar.
But fire and did something to it.
Did you get better?
Fire assistance.
I'm getting easier because I'm going to make better.
No, come on.
I think he stuck something in there so it works better now.
Did I jam something there and it worked fine?
Well, that's nice.
How about you?
Last three days at St. Paul.
Minnesota IP Symposium.
It's their state's government like IP seminar things.
We just have to join in.
Anyone can go, I guess.
And we just said that for the last three days.
Did one of the first day took class on project management.
The bare bones of project management.
And then some other little seminars.
And today did one on the difficult people.
It should be cool.
The only two I really liked was the difficult people on the project management.
So you will know how to deal with me right now.
You're not a difficult person.
You don't know.
Well, I don't work with you.
Let's go that way.
So that's cool.
What do you mean that?
How was the difficult person one interesting?
It was because it's like it was like this is what you can do.
But what you're really going to do is change your attitude toward that person more or less.
Yeah.
Don't sit there arguing with them, right?
Yeah.
I mean, change your...
What are you doing works?
Yeah.
So this wasn't really true to the person it does.
You know, you got to use these different tactics.
They'll too.
And the worst kids, you showed it good.
So that's what you know, you know, you're thinking like you didn't teach you how to deal with these.
But it's basically teaching.
Because you're not going to change the person.
You're going to change your attitude towards that person.
Things you can say to them to get them to calm down or this or that.
It's like from my zone.
Yeah.
You know, sometimes it's the best option.
Yeah, I could see for computer IT people.
I want to buy some of my work all the time, but then they were the babies.
So I'm not sure that we're going to make some concessions there.
No, but it was really, you know, it gave you some little...
You know, I'll call it verbal to get you two things to say.
You know, just, you know, it's like you can remember that when you're in the heat of it.
So it's going to take practice.
He says, like, these things you have to say to the person is going to be like,
you have to do at least 27 times before it will really truly take effect.
So it's calm down.
If you take a long period of time.
It's not like, is that a technical number or it's a 27?
Yes.
It's a constant three-dimensional number.
But before as far as restarting your routine, really 27.
Three brain cells.
Three dimensions.
It was 27.
Wow.
Okay.
Wow.
So, but you gotta remember, you do it and you gotta...
And we have the guts to do it because if someone's threatening you, you know,
you know, cut you up or whatever, you gotta be like, okay, stand up to the corner.
I'm all the time on the way or wherever the things, you know.
I was told that I loved the boss of that person and he almost slapped a few times.
I don't know.
I don't know.
And then I thought he's going to get heart attack.
I was just saying, cold down.
You just said, cold down.
Are you sure you don't have to raise your hands and go, are you threatening me?
Well, no.
I'm a flashy anybody.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
I ain't going to take it all.
I'm just going to take it all in.
Wow.
I know why you were getting at it.
You were all young.
I know you're the least group of that's what you get.
He started it.
And you're all stupid.
I tried to.
I slipped it under the rug, but I pulled it right back out.
Pulled it right back out, laying it around.
You have a man.
Yeah, I wish I could share.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, that was cool.
Yeah.
Anything else?
Well, they have this thing.
Maybe I should be in one of the booths.
They had all these vendors on one day.
And they had this ace or open box.
It was about as big as what they say.
Pretty small.
You know, enough room for a desk.
And I think I was telling you that earlier that you can get it with an infrared port and a remote and everything.
For basically everything you need to get it to be a rent TV box.
Which I thought was cool.
Wow.
Cool.
Yeah.
Good morning.
And I didn't do anything.
I just put a newsletter on.
And brought down a couple of servers.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
And watched the video to be happy.
We'll take the beers just a second.
This one is Blondale.
I like your Keymark tab, your Best Buy tab.
Yeah.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Shop.
Hey, it sounds like you're going to give me chills.
For several days we listen to the news every night,
so you're any housewife.
You guys have a lot of fame in it.
Thank you, you know, I always, you know, I could tell you.
What is this?
Somebody made a pump.
It's all the stuff that I'm searching for, you know,
what I'm working, cake rising.
Which, everything.
Let's go back to the next one.
I think this is a good personality.
I want to know what else?
Beer, beer, beer.
That applies to the Google article.
How much does Google really know about you?
How much does Firefox really know about you?
Absolutely. They know a lot.
See?
I wonder about that sometimes, because like,
I'll be on website.
I went to a Jewish store website one day,
and the next week, whenever I go to Yahoo Mail,
I keep seeing ads for the story story.
Well, what I do is actually, I have deleted all the cookies
every time I close it.
I think it's interesting.
It's fun now. I'm like, what are you going to see today?
Yes.
As well as I run two applications.
And one of them is non-script.
And that one is pretty good.
So actually, it cuts all the junk out.
And the other one is the adblocker plus.
And that one actually.
Those are adunch.
Yes.
My wife's getting pretty good at cookies
when it comes to travel arrangements.
It really makes a big deal whether you visit the site
before or not and what kind of deals you will get and stuff.
You'll visit the site one time,
the first time in, you'll get a really decent price.
If you come back the second time,
the prices are all higher.
And you can do that within the next minute,
and the price will be higher.
So you delete your cookies again, and you go back to it.
Make sure you save that paper.
If you buy a box to delete your cookies,
then go to it again and see which price is different.
Because sometimes it's even reversed.
I wonder how long it takes.
Before they sell cookie packets.
Cookie packets.
So you download all the entire packet of cookies
so you get all the best deals.
And all the ads.
She's actually noticed that if she goes too soon,
resource vacations this or that,
if she goes to competitors,
you will get a different deal
because they know you've been to these other sites.
Wow, that's good.
This is what I do with the cookies.
It is they, they probably know that that cookie is there.
They don't know what is the value of the cookie.
Some cookies are enough.
No, no, no, no.
The cookie actually goes,
if you, if you the request for a cookie,
it actually goes and requests you only the,
the value from the server
where it was placed into.
It depends on the type of cookie.
It depends on type of cookie.
If you like it, you can apply it.
If you like it, you're cookie bolder.
And we'll get it with text.
You can actually go into some cookies.
And it's like, oh, here's the preferences
that they've last visited.
Here's this.
And you can really see some interesting cookies out there.
They can read some of your sources.
And that in fact, that was some of the hacks
and stuff like that.
And the price of these can read a cookie from another site.
Yeah, you should be, you should be.
Because I, you know, I was working with a cookie
writing some code for it.
And if you went out on the same server,
what, what, what place looking on there,
then you actually could not get to it.
Yeah, from, you couldn't pull it from your surface.
Yeah.
I'm sure they can find a way around that.
The industry, they, they might,
they, they, did my thing to server.
And that's how they get to.
Right. They, they go to your,
your browser saying, I'm this place.
I'm, you know, my place,
but it's not really the same place or something.
Thank you.
So I'm running this at block,
at blocker plus and then no script.
That's what I'm writing.
No script.
What was the nature of this super duper
internet explorer floor?
Oh, boy. Yeah. This one was bad.
There was a couple lines,
a JavaScript that you could put.
It will cause a buffer overflow.
And you could execute any code you sent on the page.
Was the, sorry.
And that could be just planted on any web site.
They visit the website and they can
execute arbitrary code on your PC.
That's how we actually improved a customer experience.
Yeah.
That was an internet explorer.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. They actually released a patch
outside of their normal patch
update process.
So that's, that's the biggest problem I have with Microsoft.
Is they integrate all their products so together
that your internet explorer can get
at your office product,
your office products can get a hard drive.
And so if you compromise any one of those things,
you pretty much compromise your whole system.
It actually made DVC.
Yeah, but yeah, this one.
This one, there's a patch of browsers that did this.
I mean, you know,
if Firefox would have had that,
they would have been able to execute
code on your Linux machine too.
So I mean, it's, it's a fairly major bug.
Yeah, they were saying the other browsers don't have.
So they did it through JavaScript?
No, I can't.
They caused a buffer overflow in JavaScript.
And then put the program pointer,
the program counter somewhere way off,
somewhere way off,
which they could actually move it to some place
where they were actually,
where you see if you would think it up,
and it's our executing whatever you've stuck there.
Which you can download.
You said that's the way they did like those JPEG ones
too long, typical, right?
Yeah, there were some instances where they'd set the width
and the height to negative numbers.
And then, you know, based on
whatever renderer there was,
it would keep going, keep going, keep going,
and cause an error,
and then the program pointer would jump somewhere.
That's what is C for you.
If that would have been Java,
that would never happen.
And all these to be interesting.
Yeah, in Java, it would throw an array out of bounds exception.
No pointer.
And it goes away.
No, array out of bounds.
Negative 1.
Yeah, it would actually cut it.
New Florida power plant.
You know, somehow WebLogic
has figured out how to crash the jerry
because they can do it pretty consistently.
Oh, yeah.
Thank you.
WebLogic is a Java.
Yeah, WebLogic is written in Java,
but they figured out how to crash that jerry.
Oh, they work hard for it.
Oh, they do. They write all sorts of weird codes.
And you should underrun for being crashed.
Oh, you pay a lot of money for that weird code.
They probably bought it from India.
I wouldn't be surprised.
Yeah.
This code is way, way too.
I know it's not.
To be from India.
I'm like, what's that?
It's actually a high set of bad code.
They like use like all these little tricks of the trade
that you should use, but they use it anyway.
So they can do fancy,
fancy with being feature A.
So it's from Indonesia.
It's Malaysia.
Malaysia.
They haven't died within a month.
I'm dead serious.
It's so cold for that drive.
Three drives die.
Every single one of them has been from Malaysia.
And when I go for a replacement,
they replace them with one from Taiwan.
And they were fine.
That's weird.
So I don't trust drives from Malaysia anymore.
But if any of buying stuff you don't know.
Yeah, you don't know because
they have four plants,
and whichever one you happen to get,
that's what you get.
That's what I wonder if they don't like sell
the Malaysia ones, mix them in.
And then they hold the Taiwan ones,
which are slightly better for all the replacement.
The replacement.
So you don't get a replacement.
The crashes.
That's my bet.
Should we go on newsletter?
newsletter.
I mean, we went through our two minutes of fame.
You should have had $2 or something.
Well, I think at this point,
I'm gonna head out.
Why don't we get hold of it?
Why don't we get hold of it?
Why don't we get hold of it?
Why don't we get hold of it?
Why don't we get hold of it?
Why don't we get hold of it?
No more, the next meeting is here.
It takes two hours to get there.
You know, we're here.
You have to leave soon, too.
So should we go really fast?
Yes.
Because then, I think that after 9.30 hour,
welcome is the welcome.
Thanks.
Okay, so shall we go?
Yes.
You drive safe.
You're gonna see if you get on.
There was something that, uh,
a visit filed the lawsuit against, uh,
Cisco as far as GPO violation.
Then you better read it about that.
I read about that.
It's more of the love hate relationship I would say.
Cisco has just been a real jerk.
It seems like they contact them and say,
you're not following the GPO and they go,
there you go.
And then they contact them like couple weeks later.
You're not following the GPO.
Oh, yeah, whatever.
Here you go.
You're not following the GPO.
And now they're finally just going to assume,
because they just don't get it.
Well, they sort of, I think they sued them once.
And that's what it was,
why we got our, uh, DWW.
Yeah, DWRT.
Yeah, DWRT.
That was actually first original firmware,
was, uh, they were, they were source code release.
And then, uh, rest of them,
was, was followed.
Hmm.
So, I don't know like that.
Let's just do it.
I'm happy to have that.
So, uh, we shall see what,
what will happen here.
Um, well,
we'll see.
The MRR 2.0 was released.
Did someone check it out?
Hey, check it out.
I played with it last night.
I couldn't get my music library to import.
I pushed a button, it crashed.
I opened it again.
Nothing that I had saved.
It's not in Python.
And then I had to restart X.
What they said, they have a few more releases that come on before.
There's some of these things over.
I got a video editor for you.
You love it.
Typical Katie stuff.
Uh, well, I stole it.
And I run it for some time.
We'll try to import my stuff in my player.
And I'm running the old Amrock again.
Okay. So, I shouldn't have shot it.
I should've loaded it in the right.
Yeah.
Well, it looked, um, it looked different, you know.
Yeah, the inner, how'd you like the interface?
So, um, the buttons are,
the major buttons are big.
But when you go to your library,
you know, I'm getting old, you know.
I don't know what it was been either.
I opened the last FM thing on there.
And I got my home subscribed to
and I tried to play the last FM channel.
I could not figure out how to make it start playing.
I double clicked it.
I right clicked it.
I left clicked it.
I tried to drag it.
I can play, pause, play, pause.
I couldn't do anything.
I don't know.
Okay, the Python error is scrollable.
It's not Python.
I don't know what it is.
I think I need to tilt my head to see the correct button
that was shifted.
Yeah.
It just reaffirmed for the UI personally.
I don't use Katie because I can't.
Yeah.
I just don't understand.
Did you notice the resources of it?
Is it as large as the old version?
I don't know.
I don't know.
I know that it pulled a whole bunch of different libraries.
They said they took out the MySQL database back in the article.
Yeah.
After they wanted to stream more of
tours like other players.
Which was could put SQL white in the back in the back.
That would be too easy.
That would be too easy.
So did you end up looking at Banshee?
Did you come to any conclusions?
I don't know.
As soon as you said it doesn't do genre sorting.
I don't think it's done.
To me that's so good.
Back on rhythm box.
Not rhythm box.
I'm on the old version.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
I looked a little bit at their playlists.
I've done built into it.
It looks like it could be pretty easy to put in.
They have like the smart playlist feature
quick searches of music library and then group things
into playlists automatically.
To some degree.
You should be able to do it at least by, you know,
if it can select how to play tags and stuff like that.
Yes.
So I mean all your music is paid by artists.
I'll try and genre and stuff.
I can't speak for certain that it would work like that.
But if it looked like it should,
you'd think it'd be able to do that.
And so then we were already talking about Slackware.
It was climate already.
But they had released once about that too.
And I think there was like six CDs.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's actually a lot of people out there.
Then today was open soot 11.1.
It was released.
This article is that it's going to be released.
I did download it.
I downloaded live CD.
And I was able to run 64-bit version.
Of live CD.
So I think I might try it.
Other ones.
I can figure it out enough.
There was something that the tracking build status with Paul's.
And it's a Paul's audio.
Paul's, I think, what it is.
It's a, it's a, it's a build server.
Did somebody look into it?
No.
No.
No.
I read the summary.
So I think that, well, I've been really, really too much to it.
But I saw that Paul's actually your build server.
Personal build server.
So you can do actually your different builds.
Paul's supports and.
And maybe.
The thing about that is you probably want something that actually runs before you check it in.
Not after you check it in.
Because technically, if it doesn't pass, whatever tests, you know, a unit test and whatever, you don't want to check it in your branch.
Well, yes, I know.
What?
That would be great.
But it never happens that way.
There, there, you get other people to do your debugging.
Well, you don't get other people to do your debugging at the point.
You don't have to do your debugging before you check it into the branch.
Really, the general way of doing it, the main development branch always needs to compile, always needs to work.
I mean, yeah, okay.
You can check in something with a bug, but.
Yeah, a lot of people.
Yeah.
A lot of stuff I get, you know, it looks like they're giving it to you.
So you can do your debug.
Yeah, exactly.
There are some software packages that do that.
They'll like plug into a subversion.
And when you try to check it in, it goes through on the server.
And before it actually commits it, it will run through a full build, make sure it builds.
Run through all your unit tests.
Do whatever other things, you know, you can run like a style cop or FX cop.
Whatever you need to do on your source code to make sure it falls on your standards.
And then it checks it in.
Okay.
So.
I wasn't aware that you can actually do have their programs like that.
I thought that how it works that you committed.
And then you, you know, you're not in the bills.
Yeah, we're actually looking at a team city to do that.
Obviously, that's not a windows thing.
That's a or a Linux thing.
That's Microsoft thing.
That's what we're using at work in city.
I'm not going to put it in newsletter.
No.
It is free to use up to a certain point.
So I mean, it's not.
What I thought at first is this might be something you can run on a package that you get.
So you don't mess up your file system.
And then have to end up pulling it out.
I think it's mostly development.
Yeah.
Is there anything that does what I'm saying where you can actually check a package before you actually put it in?
Well, at one point I was thinking about that.
You know, why don't you just take your entire ETC directory and make it like a subversion repository or something so that when you've got a change,
you can revert your change back out.
But I don't know.
I've never seen that.
Sometimes this is not the, you know, the, when you are placing new package.
I think it's a package manager issue.
The package manager should do that.
Yeah.
Because well, there is canari package manager, which is a foresight is using all our path.
And that one actually what you can do, you can do the snapshots.
So if you apply new package, you don't like it, you can actually revert it back.
But I'm not aware that RPM, any RPM manager or Debian manager.
No, you don't.
You know, actually you can put it in there.
There's a Linux version.
Team City.
So there you go.
You are just missing my art.
It's not free.
Well, it's free up to a point.
Like if you, what is it?
The open source.
You can have up to 20 user counts, up to 20 build configurations, three build agents,
blah, blah, blah, blah.
Some, uh, freeloar to it.
And oh, it's also open source life.
It's free for non commercial open source software development.
So there you go.
And everything.
Let me five build in company.
That's not non commercial.
That's not commercial.
No, that's commercial.
But you can have up to 20, up to 20 user counts, up to 20 build configurations.
And unless you're fairly, you know, major is, you know, build house,
you're probably not going to go over that.
It's just a pattern to submit changes.
It's something to look at.
I don't have to look at it.
Because I was playing with a handheld.
And this does actually integrate with hands as well.
So you can run the handheld.
But the handheld was just trial.
Well, they have an open source version of handheld that's about 10 years old.
That you can use.
That's pretty free.
And if you want to use the other one, you've got a, you know, fork order to change for it.
So this is actually a remote bill.
It's going to be on a pre-tested commit.
Build chains and dependencies.
Build progress and estimation.
On the fly test results reporting.
Newly fail test.
Just a whole bunch of stuff.
Cool.
Well, how are you going to implement it for us?
Sure.
At my standard going rate for consultant?
Yeah.
And don't worry, I'll do it.
Let's see.
What's the standard going rate for consultants now?
Like $200 an hour?
Two beers an hour.
Two beers an hour.
Two beers an hour.
Two beers an hour.
Eight hours, yes, yes.
Two beers an hour.
Two beers an hour.
Two beers an hour.
What's the standard you have to wear into your works?
Three hours.
Yeah.
That's the within infrastructure contract.
Thank you.
Let's do just a kick- chce an hour out all year.
What content?
Hourly rates.
That looks like you installed agents on your like deploy servers.
And then you have,
does it like a infrastructure sign for you to install the pieces on it?
You actually, okay.
You run this on a server and then you're commit actually.
and then your commit actually, it doesn't go straight
to the repository, it goes to the build server,
the build server builds it, make sure it all runs,
and then commits it to your repository.
Cool.
Yeah, it looks similar to the answer that stuff was.
There was an article about managing your movie,
open source movie collection, just with it.
No.
Did anybody read them on?
About that.
Oh, okay.
I didn't, but I'm gonna get around to it eventually.
That was a brief thing, but I don't really have any movies,
that stuff.
Yeah.
It's something we'd like to do at some point.
It was, it was already by thought, you know,
I didn't read too much about it.
You don't have to any open source movies,
but I have a very large, do you?
That's what we need to do, we need to get a paid,
a hard drive and just start putting this thing.
It'd be nice just to have them all on the main
the initials.
We need to get all my drives, so cheap and balanced.
Yeah.
Right, 1.5, terabyte is only like 150,000,
and then I only get cheaper, so I'm gonna start now,
and by the time you get all done driving,
I'm backing up AXX OS movies,
and I'm just starting to do ISOs.
Hey, ISOs are everything, and he's very happy
that he did it for me.
There was an article about bi-directional file system
syncing, so there are actually these two packages,
Unison and D-director Sync Pro.
D-director Sync Pro is in Java,
and Unison is GTK, and you can also run it directly
from the prompt.
I was actually using Unison at one point,
probably put it on here again.
It actually worked pretty well.
You run it through, you can do the configuration graphically,
and then you can actually tell it to sync up
from the command line, so you can have it on an automatic script
or whatever, so I don't know, to me,
that was a little bit more useful than the Java one,
because the Java one is, you have to start up
this big Java program to do it whenever you want to use it.
And when you are looking for your little programs,
really, most likely, you don't care to see it.
Yeah, I don't want to know what's happening.
I want to, you don't want to see
those pretty boxes moving?
No, no, I want to connect to the network,
and it goes, oh, you change this?
Okay, sync it up, you can sync it up,
and it'll be open behind the scenes.
I always enjoy my time with a Windows 98
when I went to work, and I moved the boxes around.
I was looking at it for three hours.
I thought, listen, there's a defradler.
You can go download that, you can watch your boxes again.
I'll do that, so you're like, what's going on?
It's got all kinds of colors, just what you want, so.
Oh, they actually do anything,
or does it just move the boxes around?
It actually does, it actually does.
It's actually more functional than the Windows defrad.
Is that the JKD-Frag?
No, JKD-Frag, you don't get boxes,
but you get boxes.
You get a lot more old in the place.
Nice, cool.
You can go out here and probably sell them at it.
JKD-Frag is, yeah, I've used that,
but the defradler is a puriform,
they've got a couple of programs, a C-cleaner.
They don't be part of that, they do C-cleaner.
They have to pay for it, though.
The defradler, nope, they're all, oh, no.
These all those sorts of tools, you know, aren't they?
Yeah, they've got a file.
It's a solid, it's a solid file.
Yeah, I mean, if you're really in the pick-up.
Go to C-cleaner.com, I think,
or C-cleaner, Search for C-cleaner.
There's like three or four system utility programs
I have, but they're all free, so.
There was some, some other article about K-12 Lennings,
Founders, Hand of Project,
the Flutera community.
So, I guess that's for educational programs,
some kind of package.
They don't really look into it, but.
I thought it was, maybe somebody would be interested.
There was an interview with the Warren Woodrow,
who is a founder of Mappes.
Once I listened to his interview, it was interesting.
I didn't read this one, but it's, he had an interesting guy.
Then there was one tutorial.
I think you were talking about tutorials.
Yeah, I took a quick glance at that.
Actually, it looked a little, little basic.
The first few things, I looked at,
spent an awful lot of time on some pretty basic stuff.
Yeah.
But it was, it was a long tutorial.
Yeah, there you go.
So, you could, as you get down on your list,
it gets a little bit more into stuff.
Yeah, you guys who are using Fedora,
you should be reading this.
Okay.
Quick, share your screenshot with J-Shot.
I guess that's for taking your screenshots.
With this program.
So.
And Wi-Fi with base photo.
We were talking about it.
Yeah, they had their frame on wood.
That was, this is actually,
like three hours.
Very good deal for a touchscreen, linux space.
I went on their forums,
and they plan on releasing an SDK for it,
and also opening it up for hackers completely.
That would be cool.
Yeah.
Yeah, sometimes within the next year.
And I don't know, I put on the forums
that you were looking for something for recipes.
And somebody actually came back with the suggestion
that you could use it for your recipes.
That's exactly what they said.
Take all your photos, put them on a flicker,
and then you can subscribe to Flicker on this.
And then you can actually view your recipes right there.
And Flicker is.
And do you have, like, Russian or what?
I feel like eating today.
Oh, that's the iPhone.
You shake it and tell us what restaurant they are.
Oh, but they said that they're probably planning on.
That'd be a hot idea.
I feel like eating today.
They said they're probably planning on adding opera as a web browser
so that you can use it for, like, a web interface.
And, you know, there's a lot of things you can use.
You can use it as a remote too,
as long as you've got a web browser,
because a lot of things have the web interface.
So have a USB plug into it so I can get a scanner.
So I can scan it.
This is a print in the fridge.
And then my microwave can talk to me.
Oh, the fridge.
And then your fridge can order your...
Yeah, it's not what I've used before.
And then when you're pitching your bells, it takes over, right?
Is that only a hard network connection?
Oh, no.
It's a Wi-Fi.
Yeah.
And for 140 bucks, it's got to be perfect.
Yeah.
You know, the screen, Wi-Fi, it's a touch screen.
So it's very nice.
Yeah.
It does.
It has Wi-Fi enabled...
Yeah.
...eight inch, four by three, eight hundred by two.
You know, for earlier, you can check...
Oh, that's right.
Oh, have you just put it in your...
Put one in your bedroom.
One in your living room.
One in your kitchen and stuff.
It's full screen.
Full screen touch screen.
It's...
It's got 802-11 VNG.
One gig internal memory.
Wow.
It syncs the flicker.
You can email photos to the frame.
You can have...
It has SD cards for us.
USB mass storage support.
You can play MP3s.
Power-shaving, clack-and-learn functions.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, whatever.
All they need is a movie player in there now.
Yeah.
Well, you know, even if it's...
It's an easy, even-watch cooking show.
You know, if it's a movie...
If it's...
If it's...
If it's...
If it's...
If it's...
If it's...
If it's Linux-based, I mean, I don't know how you...
You can get it.
And...
If it's...
We have a performance probably on video.
It's probably limited.
Yeah.
Very small, probably.
It's all re-pressure-at-most kind of screen and stuff.
It's still on its own.
I mean, even if they don't open it up for hacking,
somebody's gonna figure out how to hack this.
I mean, it's just too...
Too hackable.
That's the root.
And the password is a secret.
If they just have a look at passwords.
Oh, yeah.
Maybe they don't.
There was an article about...
I think we were just talking about...
How much does Google not love you?
And I think that's a probably book, so they didn't really tell you exactly what they know about you, they told you what the book covers.
Yeah.
You got to go buy the book.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Why did they did that?
Of this is great.
Last year they did a research has got the data, you know, just search data and they associate with the IP and they were able to find people based off of their searches.
So like they found like, they, on of the data, they found like 10 people specifically in contact with them to make sure they were right.
But they could tell me stuff, you know, where they have searched, what they've looked for on everything.
Because you know, a lot of people type their address and be Google.
Yeah.
So you want to do a map?
You want to do a map and any of that stuff.
Well, that was the scandal when AOL passed some set for the data mining and they found that ladies somewhere on an East Coast through, you know.
I think that was, you know.
There was an article, if Microsoft, you applied to books.
So that was pretty good.
Yeah.
That was funny.
Yeah.
It would be that color too.
Yeah.
I checked.
Yeah.
It's dark gray on black, you know.
Only you can read this book and only you, nobody else.
So that was kind of funny.
But it might be true.
What else we have?
Well, that was a circle.
There was circle menus in circle.
I don't know why those didn't take off.
I mean, they had been playing around with those fact eight, nine years ago.
And I'm sure I can tell you why the circle film is stacked around.
It uses up a lot of testing state for, you know.
I don't know.
Somebody had actually made a plugin for GTK1 that actually had circular menus on the right
click context menu.
And everybody just got all off, excuse me, all off in his face about doing it.
Oh, who would want that blah, blah, blah.
When you think about it, it's a sugar, sugar user interface.
It's sort of like a circle.
Circle menus are, you can definitely get things done faster with the circle.
It's all the technology.
Because like, you know, the first TV we had when I was a little kid, the screen was round.
Absolutely.
Almost perfectly circular.
Because they could have made a tool square.
Yeah.
Right.
And so I mean, if that had stayed that way, you know, then all these other things might work differently.
For some reason, they decided TV screens should be nothing.
The nice thing, the nice thing, oh, I'm sorry.
And it goes in a sheet.
I'll see these sheets.
Then it really makes a sense to make it square instead of square.
Oh, well, it's longer or no.
I'm talking to G.
But the G.
Yeah.
The second TV we had was a rectangle.
And I think, I think maybe it's because it's hard to compose.
I mean, as an artist, it's hard to compose in a circle.
Yeah.
Whereas it's, you know, traditionally much easier to do rectangle.
Framing.
How hard.
How hard it is to live in a bubble.
I installed this and I had to move it forcefully because it, I had to install it fortunately
because it couldn't find a penancees that were there.
But the menu, it claimed one there and then messed up everything and synaptic was yelling at me.
Things were going poorly.
That was a good order, right?
No, it was a good order too.
Oh, it's good that I have it.
The thing about the circular menus is you don't actually have to visually scan.
Whereas if you right click and look, okay, I have to go down, down, down.
And you don't have any contacts.
That's how far you're going except for visual.
This way, you know, okay, I need to go to the right.
Yeah.
When you go to the right.
I'm sure it minimizes mouse movements.
Right.
And not only minimizes mouse movements, but once you learn where the things are,
you don't even have to look, you can go click, click, click.
You know, right up, down the left.
And that's the item that you want.
So it's a lot quicker once you learn to use it.
It's the same thing with like mouse gestures.
People look at mouse gestures and say, oh, that's stupid.
But once you start using them, you realize this is so fast.
Because it's a shortcut.
Right.
It's a shortcut.
And the circular menus give you that ability to have a shortcut on every.
I agree.
I agree.
It's an old hit.
You don't build it right.
It's never winter head.
It's never winter head.
It's never winter head.
It's never winter head.
It's never winter head.
It's never winter head.
It's never winter head.
Try to, you know, try to see how much material you waste building around building.
Is it a lot of it to you?
What's that?
Oh, yeah.
It's huge.
How do you do angles with the new one?
The trouble is the math.
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
What do you know?
Where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah.
That's it.
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Yeah, where do you put your colors?
Whatever.
If somebody wants to.
The lag radio is not podcast anymore.
It's stopped.
But it was still there.
And we're talking about blue bows.
Yeah.
And then we have a few how to create minimal
and beautiful desktop to the conkeys.
Somebody, I think you were doing conkeys,
so there is another script.
Creating virtual machine,
FOSN, KVM, VMware,
and VMware with VMware Builder on Ubuntu,
because VMware Builder is a package,
so it probably doesn't apply just for Ubuntu.
Virtualizing with KVM on Ubuntu,
and I don't know if you've got better user in the face,
but I think that you were trying KVM at some point,
and sort of you gave up.
All virtual machines.
KVM.
They didn't try KVM if what do you know?
Yeah, it works fine.
And then you generally use it through the virtual machine,
but actually comes from the door project,
the virtual door manager,
or you can use it through the QVMU.
And then KVM actually uses the QVMU virtual machine,
but there's some relationship between the two
that I don't understand.
And then we have Build, Fedora,
10 of the Remix.
Wait for that a little bit.
Hold on.
Yeah, I'm not interested in making a Fedora Remix this week.
Yes.
I feel like it's going to be next week.
Yes, next week.
And then using HDMI Audio Video and Linux,
there was a guy here who tried HDMI and wasn't pretty happy,
so I don't know.
So there was how to.
And that would be about all for our newsletter.
And I guess that's probably all what we are going to record here.
I think he's busy for the same thing.
Thank you.
Thank you for buying stuff.
And I'll see you next year.
And if anybody was listening, thanks for listening.
I guess.
Thank you for listening to Hack the Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by tarot.net.
So head on over to CARO.nc for all of our community.
Thanks for watching.
Thank you.
