Episode: 8
Title: HPR0008: Asus EeePC
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0008/hpr0008.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 10:14:33

---

Music
Welcome to Hacker Public Radio. This is an episode of Unknown Proportions since I
do not have it pulled up and I can't tell you. But we got a special episode for
you today either way. We have a special guest that would be Red and Threx, if I
pronounced it correctly. Say hi. Today we'll be talking about the EEPC. Aces is
little, ultramobile, not ultramobile PC. It is a complete fully functional laptop
and we'll also be talking about its use with Backtrack 3 Beta. So Red, if you don't
mind me calling it, you don't have the EEPC correct? Not yet. Not yet, but you're
planning on getting it. Do you know the differences? We'll just go over the
differences real quick and it might help you decide which one you want. They
actually have four models out right now. The 4G in surf and galaxy, I'm sorry,
the surf and I guess it's galaxy. There's two models and they're $50 different
on the 4G. You get webcam, no webcam, carrying case, no carrying case, and I mean
the carrying case is not that big of a deal. Yeah, whatever. So they also have the 8G
and the 2G. The 2 4G's are 399 and 349. The 8G is 499 and the 2G is 299. And then
what these G's are alluding to is the amount of solid-state disk drive or the
only hard drive that it has, space that has available. So that's not very much
when it comes to the size of drives out there today. But it's enough. They're solid-state
aren't they? Exactly. And the great thing, there's one thing that everybody knows
that solid-state is ultra-fast and low power. That's a lot of what the hype is
about these things right now. But the thing that isn't really out there and isn't very
well talked about is its durability. Like the EEPC is a tiny little laptop. But the
great thing about it is that there are no moving parts. There's no optical drive,
which is downfall in some aspects, but an up or a positive in others. It has, like
I said, no optical drive. So what you're looking at is not a single moving part on this thing.
That's great because if you're a road warrior, you're looking at
Jocelyn's thing around in your backpack for days, like 20 days out of the month.
Oh, right, right. You go through laptops like gravy.
One of the recent movies that I saw featured a kid running around in all kinds of
actions. He probably looked like he had something like the EEPC. But I was
also kind of reminded about it from I think it was the $100 laptop project.
Oh, the OMPC one laptop per child, OLPC one laptop per child.
Oh, right. Right. Yeah. I guess I was supposed to be ultra durable too.
Right. It's supposed to survive Africa.
Right. Right.
And the 4G. Oh, go ahead. I'm sorry.
Well, it was just one of my concerns about the solid state drive is how easy it is for
data to get corrupted on a solid state drive.
You know, I don't know. I'll be honest. I don't know if that's an issue at all.
Is that would there be a difference in the in the corruption ratio or how have
you want to speak of it between solid state disc and regular hard disk?
I mean, it doesn't really determine. It's not really determined on the head.
What is it? Is it determined by the operating system, correct?
I wouldn't be sure if it was a file system.
No, it was just a rumor or something that I heard, but I'm not too positive on it.
Okay. Well, after the show, I'll look into it and we'll include in the show notes.
Let me write that down real quick.
All right. So also today we'll be talking about Backtrack 3 Beta.
And we talked a little bit before the show.
You said that you tried Backtrack 2 quite extensively, but not had the chance for
for Backtrack 3 yet.
Yeah. I just haven't. I just haven't. I'll be. So yeah, I guess.
So they released the beta and it is beta in two forms in the USB form and in ISO form, like always.
The USB form is pretty cool. What you can do with it is plug in any USB stick that's a gig or larger into
your Windows XP or Linux distro and it doesn't have to be XP, any Windows distro.
And you run this BAT file or the shell script depending on if you're running Linux.
And it'll install the Master Boot record. It'll install Backtrack.
Well, it really doesn't install. It just edits the Master Boot record of the USB stick and has those two folders
that are pushed or copied onto the USB stick.
And that's it. And you run, and you boot to it and it works fantastically.
Wow, that sounds pretty easy. You have to specify the drive letter in the boot file or...
Whenever you run the script, it'll ask you for it. But normally it's just...
What it'll default to is where it's being run from. So if you copy the two folders over first and then run it,
it'll default to the USB stick that you currently have in. So you won't have to figure out what drive or HDHDCs, SDA, whatever it is.
It pretty much does it all for you then.
Yeah, it's pretty dubbing proof. I'm really happy with how it turned out and what they did with it.
So how this all ties in with the EEPC is...
The EEPC has a solid state risk, but it also has an SD card slot.
And this SD card slot is SDHC, so you can put high capacity SD cards in there and run operating systems off of the SD card
because they can boot directly to the SD card. So on my EEPC, and I have the 4G, the Galaxy, the Black 4G with the webcam, like everybody else.
And I boot Backtrack 3 beta off of the SD card. I have XP on the 4G solid state just for testing because I am part of the...
And I guess I have to get the plugs in now. But EEHackers.com group, and I'm doing some reviews and some testing out on this thing.
But the cool thing is that Backtrack 3, I got word that they delayed the release of beta for one specific reason.
And that was for the compatibility with the EEEPC. So they designed at the end stages of Backtrack 3 beta so that they designed Backtrack so that it would work with the EEEPC.
And it really does. It works flawlessly. The resolution hits it perfect. And it's an odd resolution. It's 800 by 480 on the 7-inch screen.
And it just comes up perfectly. The only thing I don't like about the distro at an in its current state is that it automatically connects to an access point that's open no matter what it's called.
So it's good and bad in some cases where it will find an access point and get you internet access. So some people might like it. But I don't like to be connecting myself to everything as soon as I turn on my PC.
There's no setting or anything to change that right now. Well, the USB version doesn't have a static, it has a static point of reference for settings. So whenever you, every time you boot, it's not different. It's not how you saved it the last time.
It's Backtrack normal. It's like booting the live CD. So they're working on the installation portion now. I tried it and it didn't work so well for me.
So that's partially why they're in beta. You know, you got to test things out. Make sure they work.
That's a whole bunch of data to get all that stuff worked out. Right.
So a couple of other cool things about the EPCs, other than instability, its battery life is amazing. It's rated to have a, let me see, let me pull up the stats real quick.
It's rated to have a 3.5 hour battery life where it really is so much more. I had it going for probably five plus hours. And all I was doing was surfing the web. I wasn't pushing it hard.
And it did amazing. It had like 20% battery life left when I turned this thing off. It was crazy.
Well, I heard it was only going to have like two hours or is that like a different model.
The 4G surf, the lower non webcam version and the 2G surf, that's at 399.
Suppose we have a 2.8 hour battery life. I don't know why. And that's for an electrician to kind of explain.
But battery must be stronger, bigger, better in the 4G galaxies and above. Can't tell you I have no idea why.
Like you know, with a $50 difference, why go with the cheaper crappier lawn?
Yeah, quite literally. I guess cost. I really don't, I don't see why you'd want it.
I mean, some of the downfalls is one, the RAM also, supposedly according to EEuser.com's wiki and they got a great wiki.
It says that the RAM slot on the 4G surf and the 2G surf looks like it's soldered on so you can't change it.
So it's 512, no matter what you got. Whereas my 4G galaxy, I instantly upgraded it from 512 to get 2 gigs.
Yeah, definitely. But that's amazing that your battery power still lasts that long, even with that much of an increase.
Yeah, I have no idea, like I said, I have no idea how it does so well, but it does.
Well, it might have something to do with the fall and sleep drive thing too.
Yeah. I remember when I first heard about it, it was only supposed to be like 250 bucks or something like that.
Yeah. Well, the RAM's so much into this thing that 400 bucks is a steal for what it can do.
It really is. It has 3 USB ports, it has a VGA out, so technically you could have this thing closed, have an extra monitor, keyboard and mouse and just use it as a desktop PC that runs.
The only bad part is it's a 900 MHz Seller on M, ULV.
But it doesn't run like a 900 MHz machine. I had a 900 MHz tablet. It's old piece of crap tablet at work.
And this thing flies faster than it. I mean, tons faster.
Oh, yeah. But the, the, the extra USB slots, because anybody tried running the OS off of like an external drive.
Yes. The way I installed Backtrack on to the SD card, since I didn't, it comes with Xandros, which is a fully functional Linux distro as soon as you.
Get it out of easy mode or whatever it's called. They have an advanced mode that it's, that there's plenty of wiki articles or, or, or tutorials on how to get it out of.
But I wanted to put XP on there so I could use it for war. Other means, the various means.
So, what was I saying? I just lost my train of thought. So I got XP on the, on the solid status.
But before I did, I had no other way of getting Backtrack on my SD card because I didn't have a high capacity slot anywhere.
I didn't have one just lying around that I could plug into a computer or anything.
Oh, right.
So what I did was I installed Backtrack 3 Beta on my USB stick, my one gig USB stick, plugged it in, booted to it, then had the SD card slot plugged in there.
Copy all the files over, ran the USB, the shell script this time because it works within Linux.
Run the shell script this time and it installed to the SD card just fine. It runs perfectly.
Oh, that's good.
So how does it feel there?
XP runs all right. The default install of XP cuts close because it's a two gig install and it has in it defaults to having two hundred percent of the paging file of your RAM.
So I had two gigs of RAM so it took up all four gigs of my of my solid state disk which made it boot like dog slow.
I'm talking just freaking slow.
And all I did was set the paging file just no paging file because I didn't really need it on this PC with two gigs of RAM in there.
I'm not going to be running wow and freaking Thunderbird and Firefox all at the same time taking up all that RAM.
So I don't really need a paging file.
Once I did that it freed up the two gigs. I had two gigs of extra space. I also had the extra space on the SD card because installing Backtrack on the SD card didn't reformat it.
I had it in Fat 32. It stayed in Fat 32. I can still boot to it in Fat 32.
So I used that extra space that I had from the seven gigs left from the SD card as extra space on XP.
So I threw Firefox portable on there. I threw a couple other programs on there.
And now I have fully functional XP installed with Backtrack at my fingertips.
And literally to take words out of the mouth of one of my buddies I used the Escape Key which is change boot preferences as my boot loader.
If I want Backtrack I go down to the SD card. If I want freaking XP I just leave it going.
So I don't really need to grow anymore.
That's pretty cool. What applications did you use in Backtrack? Did you do any hard-core testing at all?
Yeah and thanks for the segue actually. I was trying to get it over to it.
There are so many absolutely crazy amount of applications in Backtrack 3 now.
A couple of them that I'd like to touch on, particularly is Multigo.
If you watch Hack 5 or are adamant with the news Multigo is evolution.
And I did an episode on Hack 5 about evolution.
And evolution for some reason had to change their name and called Patebra, the company who made evolution, changed it to Multigo.
And what Multigo is is basically a information gathering tool that correlates data.
So you search a user name and it takes all these transforms which are basically API calls to different websites and collects everything about that email address or a username or whatever you decide to put into Multigo.
So then you can hop off of that. Yes, it's very powerful. It's amazing that they put it into Backtrack 3.
Also, the only downfall is Multigo really needs a lot of desktop real estate.
You really need to have that space and running it on the EPC is not as great.
But you get that external resolution.
Yeah, you just get that external video card or the external monitor and you're all set.
A couple of the other ones I wanted to point out was FastTrack and in Guma.
I don't know how to pronounce in Guma correctly, so I apologize if I'm doing it wrong.
FastTrack. When I first tried out FastTrack I was actually looking for Metasploit framework 3.
I accidentally went down to FastTrack and what it did was opened up a terminal.
In this terminal I gave you a couple of options.
FastTrack updates, external hacking and internal hacking.
So I got instantly, instantly interested in what this actually does.
So, in FastTrack updates, it's amazing what this thing does.
And all it is, it has to be some kind of proscript.
I'm not sure, or Python script or proscript or some kind of script.
But it does some automated things that you wouldn't find in anything that costs less than 25 grand core impact.
So, it updates Metasploit 3, it updates AircrackNG, it updates Kismet, it updates Millworm, it installs SlapGetGet, which is basically AppGet for Backtrack.
So that's just one of the update features.
When you go into external or internal hacking, you're looking at something called Metasploit AutoPone.
And what Metasploit AutoPone is, it correlates and map with Metasploit and uses those together.
If you have internal IDS, I'd recommend not ever trying this out because you'll pop on every single thing possible.
And it's very loud.
But it scans the network, whatever you point it at, it can be a single IP or network.
And it uses EndMap to scan it, takes those XML outputs from EndMap, pushes it into Metasploit as data.
Scans those boxes and those services, particularly for the exploits that are available for those services.
It then opens a session so that you have a remote shell into them.
Now, you run this on a whole network, it's going to take a while.
But the cool thing is, it'll open those sessions and keep them open.
And while it's doing the scan...
Did you have a chance to test it on like a gigabit network?
See, the EEPC doesn't have a gigabit ethernet port.
I have not tried it on a laptop or PC that has a gigabit, but that is a point to make.
I'll try that out.
So while it's still scanning, and if there's a session that gets opened, you can connect to that session while the scan continues on.
Tell me that isn't cool.
That is really cool, but I know a lot of workplaces, like now, what I've seen lately,
a lot of workplaces have Wi-Fi set up.
So you must have had a chance to test out the Wi-Fi gigabit network.
Instantly, that's the first thing anybody does whenever there's a new backtrack release.
You got a crack wet.
Of course.
So the first thing I did was I did some war driving crack web on a 64-bit key, which was rather simple and fast.
And you know, just got my feet wet with it.
But it works wonderfully. The EPC has an atheros-based card, which does injection perfectly.
And it's an all-inclusive hacking box, really.
And you can take it around in a case that does not look like a laptop case.
You can take it around in a purse if you wanted to.
Well, if you surround that with binder.
You can take it around in a binder and be having aircrack just have at it, really.
If you write, I don't know if a fast track, let me look real quick, has an aircrack automatic aircrack.
Let's see.
Expectation not upon port scanning.
No, it doesn't have it.
I'm sure you could write a script that would find, well, Y-Crawl does it.
You could run Y-Crawl during the whole thing.
Y-Crawl will automatically crack web.
I'm pretty sure it's around that three-bit.
Yep, and Y-Crawl is in there, and fully functional, and backtrack three beta.
Wow. So the data is a backtrack on every month.
You talked about how the already created all the hardware works perfectly,
and everything works nicely with it. That's awesome.
Yeah, I am amazed at just how well they made backtrack three work on.
Not only the EPC, I have some other hardware that it works well on as well.
Some old hardware that backtrack two didn't work on.
I'm sitting on an HP civilian DV9000.
Oh, yeah, those DVs are pain in the ass.
Yeah, getting the Wi-Fi card to work, and it was a really pain in the ass to try to figure out.
Well, you got to try out backtrack three, see if it works out.
Oh, totally.
Alright, we're coming up on 27 minutes.
So I'm going to wrap this up real quick.
You got any questions about the EPC, or FastTrack, or Backtrack three?
You can email me at www.muvicsatHack5.org, www.jd.muvicsatgmail.com, either or.
You can also find me at room3602.com.
Where can they find you?
I'm usually hanging out at the EIC and VIN rev, and that's pretty much it.
Alright, well, this is Fred Edtracks.
Fred Edtracks, and this is Muvics signing out.
Thanks for tuning in to Hacker Public Radio.
You guys have a nice night.
See you next time.
