Episode: 382
Title: HPR0382: TiT Radio 002 - Potluck Roundtable
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0382/hpr0382.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 19:31:16

---

.
Hello and welcome to tip radio episode two I'm monster B and at the round table with me today is spear without the 64
He's not here. I'll get I
An asthma's not here. He's getting coffee. Jay Lindsay. I am too here.
inspired by the
Well, the sheep says, Peter.
Hey!
Yeah, there's I?
No, too much longer, I think.
Yeah, I think.
Already?
Yeah.
Five minutes.
What am I...
I don't care.
Why can't I?
I don't know the reason.
He's in the bin.
Yeah, take him.
Yeah, take him.
We don't mess around on this show.
Yeah.
Mrs. I, you can talk.
Are you sure?
I don't want to be kicked into the bin.
No, you're fine.
You're safe.
All right.
Who wants to start off first?
I want to tell you about my trials and tribulations with my new laptop.
All right.
I think by now most people know that I was been shopping around and I ordered a deli other day.
Now, I know I told this declared too, again, the Linux ranks.
But I'll just let people know the sort of thing they're up against when you ring tech support.
Because trying to do a bit of research, I was sort of seeing that their Wi-Fi or MIDI Wi-Fi card,
they sell, could either be a Broadcom or there were some people saying it was an Intel chipset.
So I thought, I'll ring up the LED way.
Had nothing better to do.
So I rang up and I got the same lady.
I'm sure I got to tell me who hadn't heard of the gun two before.
She certainly sounded the same.
Anyway, I said, look, I just want to know about the old mini Wi-Fi card.
I said, what chipset is that?
And I told her, you know, the laptop I bought you, cheaper.
And she said, it's a Dell.
And I said, yeah, no, no, it's a name of it.
But I said, no, what chipsets on it?
And she said, yeah, it's a Dell chip.
And I said, so Dell have a manufacturing plant and they actually make their own chips now.
And she goes, yeah.
And I said, you sure you don't want to ask someone?
And she goes, no, I'm sure.
And I said, I wish I had recorded it.
And I said, well, this is a matter of interest.
Where's Dell's plant?
And she burst their Wi-Fi.
And she thought that was the funniest thing she'd ever heard.
And then I thought of this conversation gun.
And I thought that laughing too.
Like, I wasn't cranking enough and I hung up that plant as happy as Larry,
because it was just so funny to listen to her thought.
And I decided that's probably what they do.
That's why they hide these people.
But anyway, see, that's the thing you're going to be up against if you're trying to do research.
I actually mentioned that story to Asin.
He confirmed for me that it was a broad common chipset.
So at least that way I could start doing a bit of research and find out what it had to do to get it working.
Which, as it turned out, was very simple.
But the problem once again, would you believe, when I got it, finally took up the other day,
I stuck the Zeus disc in it, put it up, installed it, and now you see it.
I'm somewhat of a sound expert, but not really.
But having gone through all this just a week before with my wife's view one,
I had a bit of an idea of what to do.
Now, with hers, because it was an Acer, it was as simple as passing the option,
model equals Acer to the module, which is what is it?
So at least what is it?
Intel SEAN module.
SEAN HDA Intel module, that's what it is.
And anyway, so it's as simple as putting model equals Acer.
But with the Dell, and this is another thing for this, so much information out there that new people have to be wary,
that when I actually put it in Google to start looking for it,
one of the posts I found, this way, was trying to help some other people with the similar or the exact same chipset,
but he went so far as to tell them that they had to install the D-bug kernel and rebuild
also from SVN and all this sort of stuff.
And I thought to myself, no, you don't have to do that, you get this out, you can't work it.
Unfortunately, in these people who he was helping, obviously didn't know enough to think
we're hold on this out to help, like, you know, too complex to what you'd have to do.
So that's another thing people have got to be wary of.
Don't just get the first post and go through and do what that particular person says.
Because once again, it was simple, it was simple of just putting the model number in,
but unlike my wife's where you just had to write data, with the Dell, I found quite a few options
where you had Dell equals M, and I don't know what this means, M4-1,
and I found that one, that's 2-3, so I had to edit my,
it's the texturesmodprobe.d4.xam file to pass these options.
And none of them worked, and I thought, oh shit, don't tell me I really have to do that.
I should send myself to the booby bin for that, sorry about that.
Anyway, you, um, yeah, so I had to keep looking, but what I did was,
I eventually found out that it was Dell-NC.
So once again, the sound was a problem.
The camera, which surprised me, going back what 12 months ago, maybe 18 months ago,
yeah, hadn't got a hope in hell of getting a webcam working with Linux.
Now, I have played a rail with Zeus on this laptop,
Ubuntu on this laptop, I now have Arch Linux, I've put Arch on it last night.
Every single time the sound didn't work, but the webcam, the Wi-Fi was so easy,
it's just simple as installing the Broadcom SWL page,
and restart the network, and you have to mod probe WL.
That's the module name, too easy.
Now, something else I've noticed with the laptop is there is not one light on my Dell.
It's Studio 15, which you think, well, when I say light, there's no hard drive light,
there's no Wi-Fi light, there's nothing.
And you might say big deal, but that also the other problem with this is the Function 2,
is the F1 to F12, you need to hit the modifier FN key to use them,
otherwise they are the hot keys to turn your sound on and off and mute it, etc.
But the F2 key, if you don't hit the Function key, the F2 key turns your Wi-Fi on and off.
Now, as people who run Flashlights are going to appreciate,
you use your F2 key to help a lot.
So, if you're used to just hitting Ctrl F2 to flip to Workspace 2,
or mod 4 key to send a window over there,
and you don't hit your Function key, hold down your Function key,
you turn your Wi-Fi on and off.
And there's no light there to tell you that you've done it.
The next time you boot up, if you happen to done it,
you just sit there, restart the network,
mark around with Wicked, trying to find out why the hell your Wi-Fi is not running for half an hour.
I need to realise you turn the lighty thing off.
So, that's something I'm a little bit disappointed with the bell.
What exact model do you have?
Well, I got the Studio 15.
The only option I've got, that's got the Core 2 Duo to 2 Gig,
800 MHz front-wide bus.
But it really is for value for money around here.
It costs me just short of $200.
But value for money, best machine in that price range,
nothing could come close to it.
I upgraded to the True Life,
they sell it as a high definition screen, the 1600 by 9.
It's a 15.16 screen,
and I got the True Life 1600 by 900 LED screen.
And honest to God, it would be the most beautiful screen I've ever looked at.
But the caveat to that is,
today I sat out on the branda,
and it's that shiny, you could shave yourself in it.
So, outside on the branda,
it wasn't really showing this morning,
it was now impossible to see.
Inside, just a glorious screen.
So, that's something that you really need to check out on any of it,
because I'm pretty sure what's only have an X-Bride,
they all have a very similar thing,
probably all made in the same factory.
That's something to be careful with.
Now, the other thing to 3D,
it's got a,
it might sound card,
just a matter of interest,
with the Intel,
40, I can't remember what it is,
4482801i,
I think it was.
But anyway,
the fact is I knew the old soldering in America
with a bunch of one of them.
So obviously, I thought,
I had to get the sound card work,
and it wasn't.
The other problem I had with 3D was,
it's got the new GMAX,
I think it's a 4500 mobile H.D. card in it,
which supposedly can do true high definition of 1,080i.
You can also get a bloody blu-ray player,
at least,
but that was an additional $600,
so trust me,
I didn't get one of them.
But anyway, back to the 3D,
in ZUSA,
as soon as I tried to run Google Earth,
or Celestial,
or Celestia,
it would freeze.
Now,
yeah,
as soon as I tried to run something up in jail,
and full screen,
the bloody thing froze.
And I've got no idea why that was,
but with ARCH,
it just runs superb.
So,
like Jalins,
you said it,
probably because it might have a later Intel driver,
or even,
it could be, you know,
X-Augle,
Messer,
Sir.
Yeah, really happy with it.
But there are things people
that got to look out for,
and really do research well,
and don't believe the first thing you read.
No, what was the sound card again?
It was an Intel?
Yeah, Intel,
I think it's the 828101i.
There's quite a few incarnations of it,
like a G and a H,
and that,
I want to get back to you on the inject model.
I couldn't know,
I looked at bloody specifications that much.
The 828101i.
Now, how would you find out,
what, you know,
what codec a sound card is using?
Yeah, that's a good question.
With my wife's,
what I did,
as soon as it rebooted,
I just ran the message,
pipe grip,
HDA,
and that's where I was able to tell
that it seemed to be probing the BIOS
to try to find out what codec it was supposed to use
for this particular sound card,
and the error message it was getting
and then it would try something else.
That's where I started to look.
I put that into Google,
and that got me on the right track.
Okay, so when I got the Dell,
I just did a similar search
for, you know,
for this particular sound card,
which will be,
first of that original post,
where the blank, you know,
recompiled or reinstalled,
and you do that kernel,
all that sort of stuff,
but a bit more searching,
and I found people with the exact same problems.
But always,
as soon as you boot your machine,
if you've got a problem with hardware,
it's actually a good place to start,
and just do a do message,
and grab something specific to the chip set in it,
will probably get you off
a really good start to start finding a avenue to fix it.
Yeah, I'm doing a D message correct right now.
What would I put in there?
Well, try HDA.
If that's what it is.
No.
What kind of you got?
It has the HDA until the codec is real tech.
Yeah, it might be true.
I, on both mine and my wife,
HDA brings up
in-do message what it's trying to do.
And it is an 82801i,
which is a ICH9 family,
HDA audio chip set from Intel,
whatever that all means.
What kind of battery life are you getting out of it?
Well, I really haven't tested that so far.
Like, I've got about two hours,
and like, two hours is probably for mainly planning long.
But if I guess it on the brand,
there's something that's about it.
I don't know that I'll be out there much longer.
And if I was, there's a PowerPoint,
a PowerPoint out there.
But yeah, I haven't tried any of that stuff yet.
So you can come out of the bin now,
as long as you promise to behave a lot better.
Thank you.
I will.
But now, I'm really pleased with it.
I mean, I've got it, I've had three Linux,
Australia's on it in what, four days, I think.
Now I've got Arch set up,
and Arch is pretty fast.
Honestly, if no one has tried Arch yet,
give it a shot.
The more I use it, the more I get into it,
the more impressed I've become with it.
The people who developed that
just really knew what they were doing.
So really the only problem you had was with the sound.
Yep.
Yeah, I will end also the 3D in just some reason.
But I suppose how to,
that was just 211.1.
I put in rapid on it,
which is obviously a fair bit later,
using a later kernel.
And Arch 2 is using a later kernel.
So it may have been something that they fixed between, you know,
I think 270's is a chosen.
And what's 290,
I think Arch is not choosing it.
So yeah.
But I just found it's funny.
I've never had trouble with sound before on any Linux system.
And because Manclerc 2 is talked about,
I think I put the Mocker on my shelf.
Now if you would have bought that laptop three months from now,
you wouldn't have that problem.
Probably would have worked out the box.
Probably would have.
I mean, and really,
it wasn't that hard to fix.
It's in,
all you have to do is go into,
you extract your modprobe.d4 slash sound,
or it could be also dash-based configuration.
And you just put,
like options,
and then your card,
sound-hda-intel,
and then spaced model equals del blah blah blah,
for whatever it is.
It's in,
I think on the other show,
I said it was a user-shared documentation,
but it's actually in the,
it tells you all the different model.
If you put in your,
the model number of your chip,
if you go into,
it's actually in the documentation section,
in actual kernel.
So you know,
user source,
kernel documentation,
also sound,
I think,
you'll find,
the read me in there,
it actually tells you,
if you've got this model chip,
then this is,
the option you have to pass
to the module,
as it's burdened up.
So,
as long as you know what you're looking for,
you know,
it's easy to fix all these things,
because if you can read,
actually, I guess,
it's hard to say.
So I just want everyone to know that,
until my life has come,
and the challenge is
it wasn't anywhere near.
He was Excel.
Haha,
haha,
he's that party,
I was sitting in a high-end struggle,
it's,
so how was,
self,
do you know,
Lynnzy?
It was great.
I had a fantastic time.
They seemed a little fast paced
for being one day,
so it was like just one talk
after another.
Yeah, they did three talks and then an hour for lunch and then it was hour after hour all the way to five.
Did they have 10 minutes to get from where you were going to there?
Did they have like two talks going on at the same time?
Yeah, so they had three going on at the same time.
Okay, so you had to pick which one you wanted to go to?
Yeah, what I understand about that, if you weren't able to attend the other two,
it's all been recorded quite professionals from what Dave was sharing with me.
So if you did miss those, you can go and, oh, even if you couldn't attend self, you can go and you'll be able to download all the keynotes, etc.
Right, they had some really nice equipment set up for getting all that video.
Yeah, so I'd imagine a month to be, you'll be putting links in the show notes to all those with a bit luck.
I'm sorry, could you repeat that?
I was just saying that Dave, Dave is saying that all those keynotes that self will go on a brilliant video,
and that you might be able to put them in the show notes where people can go and watch them when you find out.
Oh, yeah.
Well, it's going to take them a good amount of time to convert all that and get it on to hard drives and everything.
I'll be using Cade in live hot cake.
Well, that would go for it, Science.
So, do you reckon it should have been over two days, challenging?
Spread it out a little bit.
I don't know.
It gets a little tricky and runs up your costs when you start going for two or three days.
But yeah, it did seem rushed to do it in one day.
If you had several talks that you wanted to see live, there's no way you could do it, but this way.
Well, that's exactly how the Ohio Linux Fest is, the same way, one day.
But it really does stress the resources if you add extra days.
Well, I hope the one day I get to go to a little left in the shelf.
It's so cranky at my percentage to the bin.
No.
Having not been to OLF or self, there isn't really much I could say about this.
Yeah, I really want to go to one as well.
Now I can do it this year. Maybe next year.
I don't know.
I hope in the next year I can do OLF itself.
But, you know, I've never run a conference so I have no idea how much extra work for doing it over two days.
So, there's not much I can say really.
We'll get to the bin then.
Well, good idea. It's really a minute.
So, that's no fair if you're going to cut me off again in a minute.
Well, that'll take you.
I noticed that the rooms were pretty much in just the right size for the crowd that they had.
If it had been a fair amount of larger of a crowd, they wouldn't have fit in the room.
I mean, they pretty much had it every seat filled in some of these talks.
And how many attended roughly? Do you think were they?
I think they had close to 500 sign up.
But they did a numbers check, I think.
And it was some like 440, 450.
That's pretty good.
Yeah, kind of combined.
Now, one thing I was really interested to hear was with a cloud tube, but you buff off the ground.
As far as I know, they only got a little bit of a talk and then it never happened.
This was everyone's little bit too happy, I think.
A ball.
That's just rolls.
Well, there were buffs there.
I mean, they were spread out throughout the day, but if you went to the talks, you were completely missing it.
How does this one thing on?
I never have to attend a buff.
Would you rather them call it birds of a feather?
Yeah, I actually would.
Well, I would like to recommend a motherboard.
That's somebody's building a system.
I bought the Gigabyte GA-G31N.
Intel socket LGA-775.
It's a micro ATX board.
Everything on it's Intel.
The chip set, the sound, the graphics.
The graphics is a 3,100 express.
And the audio codec is a real tech.
But everything worked out of the box.
And everything is integrated on the board.
So if you're looking for a cheap system to build, all you need is this motherboard, a case, some RAM and CPU.
And that's about it.
You got yourself a little Linux box for about 150 bucks.
Yeah, I'm back.
That's a cool cheap setup.
Yeah, I think after getting this micro ATX, I don't think I would ever go to the full size motherboards anymore.
I mean, this one has everything I need.
If I wanted to add an extra higher end video card, I mean, it's got the slot for it.
There are many weird issues like having to have a sound card to close anything else, which causes interference.
So now when I first, when I first played with upgrading computers, you had to be, you know, trying to put the sound card as far away from everything else.
Because otherwise you can give a slight crackle.
Well, this one has, you know, the sound integrated onto the board.
Yeah, which I suppose is good enough unless you're doing anything really fancy.
Right. Well, I'm talking about it right now, so this is not too fancy.
Yeah, I don't mean for what most people do, you don't really care.
Does this board supports the quad call, quad to quad, quad to do it?
Yeah, I went with the lowest grade CPU I could find. It was a Celeron 430.
And the main reason I went for it, not only because of the price, the CPU was only 30 bucks.
But the main reason I went for it because it had, it's 35 watts as full throttle.
But I wanted to build a, you know, a quiet, low powered machine.
Yeah, this is sort of like a server for you, wouldn't it?
Yeah, that's what it started out to be a server.
And now it's turning into like a second desktop.
That's all right.
Yeah, I got it sitting right here with synergy going.
So I'm using both computers with two monitors, but with one keyboard and mouse.
And you obviously didn't have any trouble getting to sound the word.
No, everything worked out of the box.
Actually, the only distro I used on this is Debbie and Lenny.
I haven't tried any other ones, but everything worked out of the box.
I didn't have to install nothing or try to configure anything. It just worked.
But yeah, this motherboard will support a core 2 quad if I ever wind up grade.
But I really like the socket, you know, the LGA 775.
I don't know if you guys ever put one together like that.
There's no, there's no pins on the, on the CPU.
Yeah, it's got the little bowls of something, hasn't it?
Yeah, so you can't damage it.
Yeah, I remember reading that year.
I tried to imagine that logo over there.
I remember reading about that some time ago.
I think the EMD has it on their higher end.
What's that high end chip they have?
Not the Asalan, but it starts when I know up.
Up to Tron?
Yeah, that's it.
Some of their higher end ones are like that.
Oh, right.
Yeah, I'd imagine that logo over too.
That little pins, how many of them would have been over the years?
Oh, yeah.
I've never touched wood, I've never bent one.
I can't close.
I had an EMD that I had to take the heat sink off.
And when I was taking it, I had to twist it a little bit and then pull up.
With the whole entire CPU came off with it.
Out of the socket, I just pulled it right out.
And I was lucky, nothing got back.
Yeah, I've actually had to get the pliers and just straighten one a tiny bit that I'd been over.
And last, it didn't snap off.
But yeah, it's a really easy CPU to put in.
I mean, of course, you know, it's got the little notches.
There's only one way you drop it in.
I mean, you just drop it in and pull the little lever and it locks right in.
And I think it'd be good for somebody that's, you know, maybe like a jury.
Or you wouldn't have to worry about bending the pins up.
Yeah, that's a good point.
Well, inside of that, it's someone who's getting old.
It's a way of glasses, but he's just having a young boy.
It would be another black.
But, you know, I have no complaints about this Ford.
It's only a drawback, I think it would have for some people.
It only has two memory slots.
So the max memory's four gigs.
I only have two gigs in there now, but that's plenty enough for me right now.
Yeah, I like, I still argue that unless you're running virtual machines,
I only got one gig in that laptop.
And one because Dell wanted I think $134 or $74 for the extra gig.
And I knew if I decided to do it, I would get it off eBay anyway.
And the other thing is too, just having watched my RAM usage on the laptops.
You know, it's very rare for me to go over 500.
And I mean, I have through using my desktop.
But that's purely because I do a bit of video editing on the desktop.
RAM probably helps a fair bit.
I've never actually watched the usage when I run CAD in life.
But I'd imagine RAM comes in pretty handy for doing stuff like that.
But one gig, plenty.
Yeah, that's what I have on my triple.
One gig, I mean, the most ever seen used was probably 400 megabytes.
I bet you had five bucks over when you did it.
Yep.
Yeah, five bucks, lately just seems to be true and so much, right?
Lots of Bronx in the chatroom asked what the dimensions were for this micro ATX.
It's 9.6 inch by 7.6 inch.
And a normal size ATX is 12 by 9.6 inch.
So it's a little bit smaller.
So this should be a tiny little board.
You can get an eye to match a really nice case.
If you're looking at building on a mid-front end or something,
it would be a really good board for that.
You certainly would be able to put plenty of pressure in it.
There's a lot of nice cases for that.
And I think the micro ATX is pretty popular for stuff like that.
If you take a look at new egg and look at all the cases,
it seems that that's the most popular case.
That form factor.
Yeah, but does anything a bit better?
No, micro ATX will fit in a regular ATX case anyway.
Yeah, they will.
They already have the holes and everything in most cases for it.
But that would almost negate the reason you bought it, couldn't it?
Because I think the back of it's where all your plugins are,
is 9.6 inch on both of them,
for the micro ATX and the normal size ATX.
So the back of it's standard.
Yeah, the gasket will fit a standard box.
That's no problem.
I think the next one below that is the,
it was at the mini ATX.
I don't have the dimensions for that.
But then you get into specialized cases though.
Yeah, I had one and I sent it back.
It was too much trouble.
Yeah, I was kind of sorry.
That's the one that sort of baked, didn't it?
Yeah, it was, the branding was zo-tech.
I think zo-tech or zo-tech.
But as soon as they put the heat sink and fan on the,
because it has like four holes on the outside of the CPU,
and the heat sink goes on and you have like these push-ins.
They're like plastic push-ins that lock in.
And as soon as they locked them in, the whole entire board worked.
And then it went, you know, I got an oversized case for it,
and it still wouldn't fit in the case.
I could have bought a smaller heat sink and fan,
but it would have cost as much as the motherboard.
Yeah.
That's rather than what's the point.
Well, I ran both enough about this,
who got anything for us as much?
Oh, I don't know.
I've been playing with GPS navigation in Linux.
And like, let's see, I got a link here.
I'll put it in there.
In the form or in the IRC chat.
See, maybe I will.
Yeah, that's close enough.
No, what I've been using is a program called Roadnav.
Get it source forage.
And just use it with a cheap little USB GPS,
and you're all set.
You got to walk and talk and road navigation system.
It will download all the free maps you can stand for every place in the U.S.
And they are working on it for using the maps from open street maps for Europe.
So it works.
It's one thing that kind of kept me involved with Windows,
was to run the navigation software.
And I was really pleased to find that I could do this in Linux.
That link up there also has a link within it for a screenshot of what it looks like on my meso netbook.
You can get the aerial views as well as the maps.
It uses the Terra server for the aerial views.
And it's just overlay on the maps.
And it makes it quite nice for figuring out where the heck you are sometimes.
What kind of device?
I'm sorry, go ahead Peter.
So is that using like overlaying the map over Google maps?
Is that what's happening there?
No, that's not Google maps.
That's the Terra server.
That's one of the U.S. government sites.
These are all free maps.
It's all run and open source.
And free government supplied maps and data uses the tiger data from the U.S.
It's a U.S. Census Bureau that has a tiger data, I believe.
It gets all the vector maps from the government sites.
And there's no subscriptions to get maps to it or anything like.
You get with a lot of commercial GPS units.
And one thing's nice with it.
You can use just a super cheap USB GPS.
I guess you sell them on Amazon for less than 40 bucks.
If you already have a notebook or a notebook, you put a $40 GPS with it, run the maps.
And you've got a navigation system that will even talk and give you directions as you go.
Now with the GPS Dongle that you plugged into Mesa,
did you have to research that the nature is kind of working in Linux?
Or just about every single one of them does?
Well, actually, the type of data that they put out.
Yeah, what do they call it?
I'd have to look it up.
It's terrible having an old memory.
NMEA data output.
Any GPS that will do that.
Or that goes you can use this software with your garment or your Magellan if they're set to put the right data out.
Yeah, that's pretty standard, I think.
Because I think that's what the one in the boat uses.
I'm sure I've read that.
I'm just very with GPS, I've ever owned.
Yeah, it's green, isn't it?
And I bet you've never seen a blue screen of death on a life I get at my bloody car.
One that runs Windows series.
Did you take a screenshot yet?
We definitely do it in your mind, including the show nights next to the edges of the picture.
Live in the moon.
Well, I've used Delormy Street maps on Windows for, you know, guys, I've been 12, 15 years.
I don't remember exactly how far it was.
That back to, what was a version three or whatever that came out.
It was in the early 90s, there was something to place.
And I finally wore out my old Delormy tripmate.
And I replaced it with Delormy's LT40 Earthmate.
But it was only 40 bucks with Windows software that come with it, which I'm not using.
But the GPS works fine.
And it just works super on Linux with a road nav software.
Now, the Delormy software, it would work in wine back, what, 2005 version.
But the 2009 version will not run under wine.
Wine's missing things that they want.
And kind of ticks me off at Delormy that they don't support Linux.
But that's fine.
There's other things in Linux that work nearly as well.
And it caused me nothing.
Yeah, I much started on this guy to see what that's like in Australia.
I was just looking at OpenStreetMaps.
It doesn't appear to me much mapped over here with that.
It could be like in the street maps.
Well, if you have GPS, you can drive down the road and map on OpenStreetMaps.
Yeah, you can add maps to the OpenStreetMaps.
That is an Open project.
And they welcome input on that.
You can go out and make your own maps and add to their database.
And from what I understand, there's a lot more detail because people gather the trouble of putting in lanes and parks and street posts and light and lamp posts and all that sort of stuff.
Yeah, the OpenStreetMap project is really kind of neat.
It's a do-it-yourself project and there's a whole bunch of people doing it themselves.
Roy and golfer have been playing around with that.
I don't know how he's come out, but he had a lot of tracks mapped on it around where he lives there in Scotland.
Yeah, didn't they have the bloke who started it on a Linux link picture or something like that?
Yeah, I think so.
Someone's doing it the way they're finding ways of putting the OpenStreetMap data.
OpenStreetMap data on the road nav software.
So, you know, where you can use the OpenStreetMaps in it, they're getting places that the US Geological Survey does not cover.
And there's also maps becoming available for it in Canada too, I believe, through the Canadian government.
I want to post the link in the chat room.
Will this device work with it?
It says it's a USB GPS receiver with Linux drivers available.
Yeah, that one on the left.
Oh, the one on the left is, that's the one that Google or Amazon sells.
You buy that for, it's under 40 bucks.
Really?
And everybody, yeah, all the reviews on that one is great.
It's a little unit built in China.
Got a magnetic base on it and you can use it in even marine situations.
It's waterproof.
Yeah, that's the one I found.
Yeah.
Oh, sorry, I was just going to say I found that when I just first mentioned to me that it was playing around with this sort of stuff,
I found that one on a eBay over here.
I think it was about $80.
But it looked like the pick of the bunch.
And it's the same brand as this.
G-Mouse?
Yeah, that's it.
Yeah, that's the one on the left.
Yeah, it's a BU353, I believe.
I can't remember the company that puts it out as US Geological or something like that.
Look at that, if you want the software, you want to buy it with the software.
It's $170.
Okay, the cable that comes with it, 60 inches long.
Yeah, it's a five foot cable, which is all you need.
And it's waterproof.
You get more net and that's in the way.
And it's waterproof.
Waterproof magnetic base.
So you can stick that on your roof over your car.
Yeah, you can stick it on your roof or stick it on the door post or, you know,
any place that you got metal or if you don't have metal, don't worry about it.
Throw the darn thing on the dash.
I'm going to have to look into one of these since I get about seven hours' battery life
and the trip we need to be nice for a small road trip.
If you had one of these, you'd take a ride and just play with it.
Well, I use mine on a trip up to Washington, see my son.
And it just worked fine all the way.
You know, I preloaded all the maps.
I will warn you, you want to preload the maps because when you get out of range of Wi-Fi,
if you haven't got the maps in there, it don't know where the heck it is.
Well, it knows where it is, but it won't show you any roads.
And I did find one thing with the road nav.
If you're running it with the aerial view overlay on it
and you get away from your Wi-Fi and you don't have the aerial views in there,
well, it will effectively lock up because it's setting there trying to pull the maps down.
Once it has moved into that area and it won't do anything until it gets the maps.
So if I had one of these with no internet, what could it do?
Nothing?
Well, you've got to have internet someplace along the way to preload your maps.
And it's easy to load the maps.
Once you get the software loaded up, you just click on a state and it'll get the data for the state.
And then as you just click on wherever you want and it'll pull the individual counties
and get all the maps and everything in them.
And so you only need to download what you're going to use if you don't ever plan to be on the other side of the Mississippi River.
Well, there's no sense of getting any maps over there, which makes it nice.
You don't have a lot of extra data used in your computer.
Let's see, the brand on that one is US Global Sat.
Is people make that waterproof USB GPS receiver?
Do you have a link to that so I can put the show notes? US Global?
Well, I've got to, yeah, I can do that.
It's just the Amazon sight port.
That's one option.
Like I say, you can use the Delormi Earthmates on them too, and they're relatively cheap.
You could use a lot of Bluetooth devices too, but yeah, there's a lot of Bluetooth GPS devices.
Yeah, but what you're going to end up with the Bluetooth is they can be fairly battery hungry, and you're not going to get all that many hours for a long road trip out of a Bluetooth GPS.
Yeah, a good point.
The BU 3503 you can get in Australia for 65 bucks.
That's a pretty good price.
Well, I had three parties to go to today, an anniversary and two birthday parties, and they were 40 miles apart on some of them.
I had a small window to get in there.
Stupid things all wanted to start at the same time, and I had about 80 miles to get between the three of them.
I went ahead and used the GPS and the road nav and found my best way and didn't get lost, and I made all of them on time.
But you can't complain about that.
I should send you to the bin for bragging about their missed popularity.
You can get invited to throw your party.
You can get in the bin.
Again.
Five minutes.
He won't be doing that again.
Who did you send to the bin?
I was in the chat room.
Bloody safe.
That's the poor guy.
As bragging about going to three parties, it's stuff he can gather up in.
So you just took it out on him.
Yeah, he's there.
What I'm talking about, sorry.
Is that the way we got that, Peter?
Well, here I am.
I get to be the shareer.
Three-thirty is not on.
Everyone's just been saying nice to each other.
I wouldn't have got to send anyone to the bin if they wasn't.
Yeah.
And what's the good of being the shareer if you can't send someone to the bin?
I mentioned Celestia in when I was testing out.
These bikes are not about that.
Have you ever heard of Celestia?
Yeah.
That's a video editing software, isn't it?
No, no.
It's a lot of people refer to it as a planetarium.
But it's not really.
They actually say it's space simulation.
And if you said that, you think I was a game.
But what it is is you can take tools of the whole universe.
In glorious 3D, and I think they used the textures from NASA.
You know, all the pictures of the planets, et cetera.
And if you've never looked at it, do yourself a favour and go and get it.
And just once you install it, you can sit there for hours.
And my daughter, once we get on the computer and load it up.
And you can get scripts so you can take virtual tours of the universe.
And as you're flying around, you know, it'll tell you on the screen about how far you were sitting
from Mars at the moment and what you can see on Mars.
And all this sort of stuff.
And it's really brilliant.
It must have been just a part posed at the thing said.
Dub Dub Dub's shatters.net Celestia.
But then get over to a place called the Celestia muddle load.
And that's where you can download your high resolution images and stuff.
Like for textures of the planets, et cetera.
That's a lot of scripts in that are on that side as well, I think.
But I honestly, it's one of the most beautiful applications I've ever seen.
And if Zeke was here, he could tell you that you can get...
A lot of people have done...
There must be scripts and images and three-day models of something like the Doctor Who Universe.
And the Star Trek Universe and all this.
Which is a bit far out for me.
I just enjoy looking at real stuff.
But definitely have a look.
Have you put this on your projector yet?
Yeah, we do.
A little bit 64.
We sit there.
And we laughed up a few scripts and it is beautiful.
It really is.
And it was the first thing I put on my new laptop to try out the screen.
To see how good that screen really was.
And it just impresses me every time I fire it up.
And I think Dan asked me once in a chat, you know, why I bother with the Nvidia drivers and 3D.
And it's really because of this.
Google Earth tool, I use it for a bit.
But you can just waste hours when you get into this.
I'm looking at the screen shots now.
It's pretty.
Ah, it is.
And they just don't do it justice.
But just to fly around.
And like I said, but get the scripts.
Because after you fly around, you run out of things.
Because you don't know what after.
You can go and visit.
Asteroids and.
And even go and I think you can go and.
Go see where Voyager is at the moment.
You know that bloody space probe that launched I think in the 70s,
which is way up past Pluto.
I think these days.
You can go and see where it that is.
And the other thing too, I think you can download scripts.
For although I think there's only what's eight space shuttle left and go.
But you can get a script.
So when one blasts off, you can get the script and you can actually see and follow it.
As it whizzes around the earth in real time and stuff like that.
It's just brilliant.
And it's all real time.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure if you yeah, you can do that with it.
I'm just trying to think I had another program that.
You download a actual script from NASA.
But I'm pretty sure it's less you did it too.
And you can go and you can go to the national space station.
That's another thing is a model for that.
You can go and look at the Hubble Hubble Space Telescope where it happens to be above the earth at the moment.
So if you look to this, what's left here?
Yeah, a while back.
Yes, I did look at it.
And did you like find the target?
Yes, I think you can go out and someone's put the targets floating around out in space.
And you can actually go and look at it somewhere.
I didn't look at that one.
I did look at some of the Star Wars Star Trek ones and things.
That's kind of funny.
Yeah, it is.
Some people get a lot of trouble.
But we found the bloody targets once upon a time.
If you find out where it is, let me know.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure there's just a script somewhere on there.
And it's available in the Debian repo.
Yeah, it's in the arch.
It's in the Zeus.
Yeah, it's showing the KDE front end and the Gnome front end.
Yeah, well, I think it just runs in the browser, really.
But yeah, I'm not sure what that might be wrong.
Don't listen to that.
Or maybe originally, I'll just assume the thing you used to run in Conqueror.
It might be just look similar to Conqueror in the KDE front end.
Well, what's the Galator glute front end G-L-U-T?
Don't know.
It's a minimal front end.
The lightweight front end.
All right.
All right, so what do you have for us?
I've got a couple of stories here.
Don't know whether anyone saw or is subscribed to the DailyCoupleText.com.
They had a big list of 100 things that a geek must do before they die.
They have this big check list and links on what to do.
And they're things like build Linux firewall, build a PC, build a robots,
build a HTML-based website using notepad, bypass compute password on all major operating systems.
And I thought it was pretty funny list.
Sorry, sorry, one was so shy.
I'm going to post it into the IRC now.
You can see it there.
There's a bunch of stuff here.
You know, create music with keyboard.
Well, ship, when I was at university, I wrote a...
Well, we had to write an assembly program to convert the bottom of the keyboard.
You know, ZX, CVB, and M and so on into a piano player, basically.
Download Wikipedia, KnowWhoMolder and Scully are.
Jailbreak and iPhone.
Okay, I disagree with that one a bit.
Hide a file behind the JPEG.
Done that.
They sure did just in break a knife phone.
Over a window uses head.
I think it's...
I think it's...
I think it's...
I think it's...
I think it's...
I think it's...
I think it's...
I think it's...
I think it's...
I think it's...
I think it's...
I think...
We should condense this list down to maybe 90.
Well, yes, possibly.
I mean, some of these are a bit...
Now, we're in here to make our best on a PC.
Yeah, I think they go to the sort of 70 or something and figure they're trying to make it up to 100.
But there's that one.
So I thought that was pretty funny.
I've got an interesting link here.
In theory, it helps stop spam.
Not because it blocks spam or anything.
I'll post it into the IRC now.
What it does is you copy that link and put it on your website.
And then when the spammer reads through your page or the robot reads through the page, it follows this link.
And then when it gets to that page, it creates an infinite number of other pages with random garbage email addresses on there.
So, as the blurb says, e-mail harvesting bots, otherwise known as data miners, follow links, grabbing e-mail addresses out of each page it visits.
When one of these bots comes to your site, all sites you've linked get cooled for e-mail addresses.
This site renders these harvested lists useless by filling them with e-mail addresses.
Once the spammer hits this site to enter an infinite loop of randomly created e-mail addresses, starting with the ones that generate when it first comes to the site.
Once the mailing list has been poisoned with a number of invalid e-mail addresses, the results is required to send a message on this list, increases, even though the number of valid recipients has not.
This forces the spammer to exhaust more results to send e-mail in theory costing the spam money in time.
A best case scenario will cause the spammer throughout the mailing list completely.
So, it sounds like a cool idea.
So, I think everyone ought to stick a link to that website's Office of Strategic Influence.com for a spammer, or it should be in the show notes.
Because I think everyone hates spam, so that would be a cool idea.
And it's got the carriage.
The carriage, or they, or you're going to just have to paste it in your website.
Yeah, and it will create you the link and that's it. So, that one's pretty cool.
I've got a funny little thing here, which I shall just post, paste into ILC here.
It's a handy cheat sheet for time travellers.
Ah, this one might sound like Shinbi material.
Come on.
I think this is funny, because it explains how to build some basic things, so you can claim that everything was your idea.
So, here we go, technology.
Heat melts just below its boiling pot and it won't curdle.
And 99.99 cents of the box in it will be killed.
Congratulations, you just invented pasteurization.
There you go.
Moving electric field produces magnetism and vice versa.
Wrap a couple around an iron core and run electricity through it, and you've got an electromagnetic magnet.
Don't have any electricity to magnet on a wall spill, and put your copper wrapped around it.
I am beside the wheel, and hey, Presto, you're converting mechanical energy into electricity.
Don't have any magnets in it.
It explains a bunch of these little silly things, but how to do a ton of stuff here.
I found it actually anyway.
Yeah, you can waste a bit of time looking through that.
You're laughing.
It's not too bad. Otherwise, you are gone.
I thought it was funny.
Hang this up in your time machine.
Do you have one?
No, I don't have one.
Not yet, right?
Well, technically, my body itself is a time machine because it travels through space and time at a rate of one second to per second.
But...
DAG!
Getting the beam.
I was going to say Peter, you're getting it now.
You're getting me out of there.
That's my last two minutes.
Hold it down.
You're gone.
My body is a time machine.
Hello to shit.
Oh, man.
So everyone got the girl, right?
Yeah, I think challenge is sleep.
Why? I would say so after driving eight hours today.
Yeah, big day.
Pick one, three, thirty. They dropped off.
Unlocked Eliza points is full potential.
Two hours?
That's on that list.
Yeah, I'll be stuffed.
Surviving the limits argument.
I'll be out.
Well, I really don't have any...
Any feedback this week.
So I'll just use the...
The Lennox Cranks feedback.
I love that.
Well, let's see.
This guy named Kevin Rigen.
He sent an e-mail saying, let me pull it up real quick.
Okay.
He's sending this to the Lennox Cranks.
Great podcast, guys.
I really enjoyed it.
Unfortunately, my zoom does not support the org format.
So it's by from me.
Must admit, changing the format so people can't listen to it.
It's something I would expect from Apple or Microsoft.
But that's life.
Thanks again.
Did we go through all this months and months again?
Yeah, but we've been org for seven months.
Yeah.
So you mean it's seven months before you sent this in?
Yeah.
Can you hook one of those ones up to Lennox?
Did they act as a mess store?
I don't know.
I'm pretty sure they do.
Well, then what was his name, Kevin?
Okay, Kevin.
Kevin, buddy, jeep potter.
Try that.
It'll convert it for you.
It really ain't that hard.
But thanks for the e-mail anyway.
Yeah, we got another one.
I won't read it because it was like that two and a half pages long.
But Kevin in just sent the Lennox Cranks a really nice e-mail
as well, just thanking us for the time he's been doing it.
He obviously knows we do a lot of research to do the Lennox Cranks.
All right, and the next one is an audio clip I cut out of Lennox
from the Hamshack.
Give us a mention.
Let me pull that one up.
So let me run through the first one here.
I was on an IRC, though, the night, and ended up hooking up
with Monster Bee from over to Lennox Cranks' Lennox podcast.
We talked for a while, and he said he really enjoyed the show.
And he's not even an amateur radio operator.
And those guys, they're a little wild.
But they know their stuff.
If y'all listen to Chad Wallenberg, he hangs out with that bunch
and that kind of stuff.
And I was really happy that somebody of that knowledge
in the Lennox world would find our show interesting
and something that he would take the time to listen to.
So I'd like to say thank you to Monster Bee for his kind comments.
And I will suggest that y'all go over, and you know, we try
to give y'all information on other programs
that go listen to.
I would suggest y'all go listen to Lennox Cranks.
I have two things to tell you before you go hunting for it.
Number one, it is not family friendly.
So if you go over there and download their program,
don't play it around your wife and kids,
and darn sure don't play it in front of your boss.
Number two, they are hardcore Linux users over there.
So it only comes in Og format.
There is no MP3 format.
So if y'all want to go over and give it a listen,
and I had the URL up, I can't remember what had done with it.
But rest will find that, and we'll get it plugged in here somewhere.
Okay, now I've run my head a few minutes, it's your turn, Russ.
I don't have anything to run my head about,
except that I did find the URL for the Linux Cranks August.
And they called it an August because they are hardcore
and don't do MP3 formats.
And it's at linuxcranks.info.
So you can go ahead and download the program there,
if you're interested in that, and we will put a link to their site.
Or I will put a link to their site, one of these days,
when I get around to doing that kind of thing.
Alrighty.
That's pretty cool, huh?
Have you guys listened to them yet?
Now you mentioned them just the other night.
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
Well, now that I've got the new laptop,
so you're having a dream putter, blah blah blah.
I didn't bother setting up dream putter on the old laptop,
because I didn't think my new one was going to take so long to get it.
So, no, I might get you to send me the link later.
Oh, I'll put it in your show notes.
Yeah, she'd probably enjoy that, because wasn't,
isn't it, um, aim radius in Linux?
Yeah, I'm, I am a career operator.
I hadn't found that podcast yet, but, uh,
and now that I've found it, I will listen to it.
Speaking of J-Pod, I didn't 16A1, 16.1 come out.
This is 0.1.
What was that, Peter?
Didn't, uh, I just soon recall you mentioning a new version of J-Pod came out
in the last couple of weeks, 16.1 or something.
Yeah, I did.
I'm trying to think of it 16.1 or 16.2.
Oh, that's right.
But, I know it's a few changes.
It seems more stable.
Well, that's just one application that is just getting better and better.
When did we start using it probably 12 months ago, maybe?
Yeah, I think I started out with, like, 0.10.
But, yeah.
I remember you put me onto it.
I remember you started using it.
I probably started using it a week later.
And, um, yeah.
I quit using it about the time you guys started using it.
So, I don't know why you stopped using it,
but you should really revisit it.
It didn't have a few problems there, but, uh,
sometimes it would pull down the same, well,
same feed, six-tonk.
Well, I'll tell you why I quit using it,
because, uh, bash potter just worked out better for me.
I, uh, I have, uh,
bash potter installed on an NFS share.
And, uh, it's available from any computer on my land.
All the podcasts that, uh, download,
as well as I can also run it manually any time
from, uh, from any computer around here.
It, uh, you know, I don't,
don't have it all cluttered up on,
uh, on any particular computer.
Uh, it's just all setting out on my server,
and, uh, you know, I can,
I can clean up the files, you know,
the ones I've listened to,
uh, from anywhere, as well as listen to them.
And, bash potter, of course,
is the one that Link did from,
the Link's Link Tech Chat.
But there's a few incarnations of it,
uh, flattening around the net at the moment, isn't it?
Yeah, bunch of people.
Oh, there's stations.
There's probably 30 or 40.
So, uh, chested, uh, his investment, for example.
Right, uh, yeah.
Dan, I think Dan modified one that just pulled down the last ten.
And, anyway, yeah, it's certainly people are looking for,
it, it doesn't do as much as what, um,
I don't think, but, yeah, I used it for a good wall too.
No, um, just using bash potter.
Well, one thing I like about bash potter,
you go in and you look at it,
and it is, it is simply a bash script,
and you follow that bash script through,
and you can, you know,
nothing about, uh, scripting it at all.
And, uh, you, you can follow the darn thing,
and see what it's doing, and, uh,
by the time, uh, you know,
you spend, uh, an hour or so, uh,
just reading through it,
and, uh, and checking, uh,
the man pages on the different commands it uses,
and, uh, you, uh,
kind of learn a bit about scripting strictly by osmosis.
Yeah, that's a good point.
And, and it is such, uh, such as,
it is beautiful in its simplicity.
You know, I did use gpotter a while back,
I was trying it out, and so I,
I said, yeah, it makes a podcast retreat,
um, in, you know, home-zoke podcast,
which is where I have bash potter downloading stuff,
and, you know,
sell up my podcast,
and then mark them all to the red,
so, because I've already grabbed them with bash potter,
um, and then said, you know, go check,
and it downloaded about three gigs worth of stuff,
and I never figured out what that stuff was,
because there wasn't a single podcast in that list.
It was just another poll.
I, um, had no clue what it was doing that,
so they're nice, I think.
Well, you end up with hash file names,
and it, uh, if you use it direct,
what you have to do is, uh, just export them to, uh,
to a folder, and...
No, that's been, like, like,
it just...
Has it changed that?
Yeah, but, before you write it,
they have real names on the podcast,
and there aren't directories in that now.
That's been featured in last couple of, um,
uh, last couple of versions,
but, uh, never certainly be compliant.
Oh, so it's marked everything as red,
so it shouldn't have been downloading anything,
anyway, which is what I couldn't figure out
where it was downloading stuff,
because, of course, I used bash potter in the morning,
and it ran automatically in the morning,
and then I installed g-potter and said,
well, you know, here in my podcast,
Mark Mall has read,
don't download, you know,
download from now on.
I forget what the option was called,
so it shouldn't have been downloading anything.
Yeah, I've had that problem.
But then what really pissed me off about it,
was I went in and wanted to move
the podcast directory somewhere else,
so I could try to figure out what the files were,
um, and it moved all the podcasts
down low, and then deleted the directory,
and wiped out every single other file
in that directory,
so all my bash potter setup
and everything was wiped,
and that just pissed me off.
And so there was no one just delete all the files,
so then I haven't had that problem.
I deleted the product and went back to bash potter,
and said,
I was giving another try.
It's really used.
I've had a little problem,
I need it.
Ah, well, that's what it was.
It was everything I needed to do.
I listened to pretty much every single podcast
on my laptop,
so I don't need it to
faff around and do iPods things
or anything like that.
MP3 players.
So all I get it to do,
download them,
stick in the directory,
and then run,
whatever I feel like,
Excel,
or Amarok,
or whatever you feel like,
or just even EmPlayer,
from the command line,
just to run the,
to listen to the podcast.
Yeah, another nice feature with G-Potter.
The way the old one would do it,
if you get like a bad feed,
it would sit there forever,
trying to read it.
Now it has like a timeout feature.
So after so many seconds,
it'll automatically time out
and go to the next one.
I was having problems with the,
Ubuntu UK podcast.
It was like once a week,
it would just hang.
Okay, I found it.
Web address for Linux and the ham check.
Blacksparrowmedia.com,
forward slash LHS.
I can never remember that.
Do you guys have anything else for a wrap it up?
Nah, that's all for me.
So what's fun?
Do you want to hear it here?
Yeah, let me think.
How bad.
Cheating down my John Deere,
read my G-Down letter.
Have you heard of that one?
Let me see if I can find it.
Lou Watson, I believe.
Yep, Lou Watson.
Yep, Lou Watson,
sitting on my John Deere.
Okay, good night everyone.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Peace.
Well, and remember the website is
titradio.info.
And you can send feedback
to a really simple email address.
Feedback at titradio.info.
All right, see you next week.
Or in two weeks.
.
Sitting on my John Deere,
reading the Deere John letter.
The more I think about it,
I'm feeling a whole lot better.
The way he stayed on my case,
it won't be hard to forget her.
Sitting on my John Deere,
reading the Deere John letter.
She didn't like the simple life.
Living on the farm.
All I wanted was a wife.
To hold in my arms.
She never liked my tractor.
I didn't like her mouth.
I'm headed to the back 40.
She's heading south.
Sitting on my John Deere,
reading the Deere John letter.
The more I think about it,
I'm feeling a whole lot better.
The way she stayed on my case,
it won't be hard to forget her.
Sitting on my John Deere,
reading the Deere John letter.
She always liked the country club.
I have a little cry.
I had better things to do,
like pulling a flower.
Now she's history,
since I read my mail.
I guess the chemistry
has gone straight to hell.
Sitting on my John Deere,
reading the Deere John letter.
The more I think about it,
I'm feeling a whole lot better.
The way she stayed on my case,
it won't be hard to forget her.
Sitting on my John Deere,
reading the Deere John letter.
Although she's gone,
I still got 20.
Still got the form in the 2020.
Sitting on my John Deere,
reading the Deere John letter.
The more I think about it,
I'm feeling a whole lot better.
The way she stayed on my case,
it won't be hard to forget her.
Sitting on my John Deere,
reading the Deere John letter.
Sitting on my John Deere,
reading the Deere John letter.
Wow, that was professional.
Why didn't you do it?
It's better than the normal attempts.
Oh wait, am I out of the simbini out?
I forget.
The city bin.
What food be bin?
That was it.
It's a hockey.
Once in a while,
did you see that speaker test thing?
You might wait that in the show.
That's just a good thing to know
when you want to apply it.
See if you got this hand card working.
Speak a dash test space.
Speak your dash test.
I'll try it out right now.
Once you get me the command.
You got it?
No, I'm waiting for you.
I have it.
Let's see if it works.
It could be a lady saying
front, left, front, front.
Front.
Front, left.
Front, yeah.
Front, left, front, right.
Front, left, front, right.
Front, left, front, right.
Oh, repeat it.
Front, left, front.
It could look right.
Yep, that was it.
Yeah.
Now do see, change it to C6.
Do I for L1?
C6.
Front, left.
Front, right.
Yeah, that's working.
Because she's saying front, left, center, front, right,
re-right.
Oh, repeat it.
Yeah, re-right.
But you don't have to see a channel.
Right.
If it's two speakers hooked up.
Yeah.
But if you read it, is that what she's saying?
You should be getting an output on your terminal.
Yeah.
You're getting the output, but she's not saying it.
Yeah.
But if you had, like, when I run it in the lantern,
I get it more.
Can I make her say anything else?
No, I don't think so.
Show me, eat, boy.
Show me, now.
You mean like that?
Yeah.
No, I can't help doing that one.
Thank you for listening to Hack with Public Radio.
This is PR sponsored by Carol.net.
So head on over to C-A-R-O-DOT-E-C for all of her TV.
Yeah.
