Episode: 725
Title: HPR0725: NELF_Review
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0725/hpr0725.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 01:33:40

---

This will end well with amazing cooking, a lot of dishes to watch.
This time we offered you separate recipe files.
This is amazing!
Wow!
This is amazing!
This is amazing!
Hello and welcome to today's episode of Hacker Public Radio, I'm Pokey and I'm your host
for today.
This episode is going to be, well, a cornea copia of fun stuff, culminating, I hope, with
the review of the North East canoe Linux Fest because it was such a blast to do.
I'm going to start out by trying to outdo one of my heroes in podcasting Mr. Dave Sexy
Yates by starting out with two apologies.
The first apology is, I apologize for taking so long to get this episode out.
I had a surgery right after the North East Linux Fest and there just wasn't enough time
to get everything done before that surgery began.
Real life got in the way as it does and I just kind of dropped the ball.
I want to apologize also to everyone I was supposed to get back to after the North East
Linux Fest specifically, Matt Lee and Donald Robertson.
I told them I would get back to them with some more information about Hacker Public Radio
because they wanted some information about contributing their content to our feed, which
is fantastic.
If I need to apologize, it's to both Donald and Matt.
I don't know what I do with your business cards.
I'm looking up your email addresses and I'll find them eventually.
I'll get what I need to get done, but this surgery really set me back quite a bit more
than I thought it would.
As far as the surgery goes, I'll be a little cryptic about it for now.
I have no problem talking about what it is, but you might not want to hear about the surgery.
You might want to know what it is.
It might be uncomfortable to hear.
Moving on from that, the North East Linux Fest went so well for me and for everyone
else who I talked to, it just seemed to be a complete and utter success.
Round of applause, hats off, tip of glass, whatever you'd like to say, to Jonathan Nadu
and his crew, who really have pretty much stayed anonymous throughout this.
I didn't write down and I cannot remember Jonathan's business partner's name.
I'm really disappointed with myself for that because the guy was one of the coolest guys
I've ever met.
He was just totally laid back and friendly and cool, helpful, it was really excellent.
It seemed like the rest of the crew was made up by his and Jonathan's wives, who were
also super, super cool people.
They were just friendly and helpful and great to have around.
You couldn't ask for more, for better people to be running an event for you.
They were just fantastic.
The event itself was a half day event.
It was very small.
I think this is the first conference I've ever been to, first Linux event I've ever
been to other than some lug meetings.
It seemed pretty small to me.
I'm thinking 50 or 60 people in total, maybe showed up.
I recognized a couple of the guys there by face, I think two guys who were there.
I had been to lug meetings with over at UNH, the University of New Hampshire.
I talked to one of them and he didn't quite recognize me.
He said he'd been around to a couple of lugs and couldn't put his picture in where
he'd seen me.
That's fine.
I haven't been to a lug meeting in probably a year and a half or two years because of my
night job.
The other guy I didn't quite get a chance to talk to, he was kind of off on his own whenever
I was free.
There just wasn't a lot of people there, but of the people who were there, everybody seemed
like quality people.
People you did not mind sitting down and having a chat with, I enjoyed every conversation
I had.
I wished every conversation could have gone on longer.
I wished I could have talked to more people.
It was really fantastic from start to finish.
Now I ran a table there.
I ran one of the two tables that were there.
There was hacker public radio.
I shouldn't say I ran it.
Actually, Art V61 from IRC came and helped me out over there and Murph also came and
helped me out over there.
So that was fantastic.
And those are the guys who physically came and sat down with me.
So thanks to those guys.
It was really great.
But I had a ton of help setting up for this upfront and I owe giant, giant keeps of gratitude
and thanks to code cruncher, especially, but also to Ken Fallon to 5150, to droops to
my mom, just to so many people.
I hope we're not forgetting anybody.
Droops and 5150 and Ken Fallon, they all pitched in and helping me to pay for the HPR stickers
that I've been sending out in the mail and handing out that I handed out at the Linux
Fest.
The stickers were a real hit there.
They seemed to be a real hit, being mailed out and they seemed to have gotten a couple
people to at least say they would stop fence sitting and throw some episodes up, which
was really more than I ever expected.
I just thought it'd be cool to have some stickers and you know, hand them out to some other
cool people and you know, that was a lot of fun.
But to actually get some episodes out of it was beyond what I'd ever thought and that's
really great.
But that been the intention and the first place it would have been a complete success and
that was just that's that's so cool to get some people donating shows because they got
a sticker.
If I knew I could buy shows with stickers, I would have done it a long time ago.
I have to thank code cruncher for just a ton of help ahead of time that she did.
She's the one who actually put the sticker design into an SVG for us that we could send
to the sticker company.
She nailed it on her first try, you know, it was perfect.
I mean, it's a very, it's a, it's a pretty basic sticker.
It's a very simple design.
It, if you haven't seen one yet, you can see our gallery.
People have been sending in pictures of their stickers in the wild and that's that there's
a URL shortener, I S dot G D like is good slash D E B capital M lowercase M capital D is
the shortened URL to get over there and that's a Picasso album that Ken has been maintaining
and he's given me access to upload photos to also.
So if you've gotten a sticker and you want your, you want to send us a photograph for
your sticker to stick in the album, that would be really fantastic, that's, that's been
a lot of fun also that I didn't expect to come out of the stickers and it's, it's just
a fun album.
You should go check it out.
If, you know, any of the podcasts or any of the guys in the IRC or, or if you're just
part of the community, it's fun to go check that out.
And even if you're not, even if you're just a lurker, no problem, have a look.
And if you've gotten a sticker and you want us to put your picture up there, just send
it to Ken or I and we'll, we'll stick it up on the web on that Picasso album.
So yeah, anyway, those, those are what the stickers look like and code cruncher design
those.
At the same time, what she did, and I, I just happened to ask her offhandedly, is there
a way, is there some kind of a script we could throw together that would kind of scrape
the website, scrape HPR and grab the links from each episode and generate a QR code for
each one so that we could print them out and have that with us.
She apparently thought that that was a great idea and Ken apparently thought that that
was a great idea because they took it and ran with it.
And the output from the two of them, what they actually generated with, what we wound
up with was just beautiful.
It's a printed page and it looks like nine smaller windows tiled on that printed page.
Which is, you know, American eight and a half by 11 paper and it's laid out in landscape
and there's nine per page and what you see is that the upper left of each of those little
windows and it looks like a window on a computer's got what looks like sliders on it and everything
is, it's really nice.
And the upper left is the QR code, which is a direct link to the MP3 file of each episode.
To the right of that is the episode's name and the contributor for the episode in the
show notes just as it appears on the website and the website doesn't have the QR code obviously.
That part's been added but the rest of it kind of emulates the website pretty well.
I printed them out, put them in a three-ring binder.
So all you have to do is flip to the episode that you're interested in and with your smartphone
take a picture of the QR code and the MP3 file just starts playing on your phone or your
tablet or whatever device you've got.
It's really cool.
I printed those all out and I tested them, I tested a bunch of them with my daughter's
iPod touch.
That thing really stinks at handling QR codes, had taken a picture of it and getting them
out there.
It's really, it's tough to do that.
I was really disappointed at how poorly it seemed to work but apparently that's just the
iPod that does that because I had to kind of hold it really, really steady for a few
seconds and I'd bring it a little closer and a little further away as it would kind
of the fixed focus.
You know, as it kind of comes in and not a focus and that the little box around it would
turn green to let you know that there it is.
It sees the QR code and you'd have to try and hold it perfectly still for what seemed
like five or ten seconds.
It seemed like an awful long time and then finally it would grab the link and it would
go to it.
I was pretty disappointed in how that worked but the minute I tried it with an Android device,
like I didn't even get the thing aimed.
It came into frame and the thing was playing before I realized I was even aimed at the
right episode.
That works really, really well in Android.
Works really quickly.
The iPod touch kind of failed in that regard but the pages that were output by Canon Code
Cruncher were just fantastic.
It looked really beautiful.
I printed out two of those books which were about 80 pages a piece I think and had them
there on the table and I thought it was just a great thing to have displayed.
Sadly, I don't think anyone touched the books.
People weren't coming over and they were coming over.
They were not familiar with HPR.
I think what they came over mostly to do was ask what is HPR and I gave the folks a brief
description of what HPR was and how we worked, you know, how creative comments works and
how that makes HPR theirs just as much as it makes it yours and mine.
That was mostly what I did for the day on behalf of HPR and I don't think anybody actually
took the time to flip through those books and have a look while I was watching.
They may have done it while I was in a talk.
I did sit in on one talk.
So sadly, I don't think they got used other than by me while I was testing them out
and playing with them.
Regardless, they are really nice looking to came out perfectly.
I think they were a great idea.
If I had had a smartphone and was just passing by a table, I mean, that's exactly the kind
of thing I'm looking for.
Ken and Code Cruncher both thought it was a brilliant idea that I had come up with and from
my point of view, I didn't think I'd come up with the idea.
That's just what QR codes are for.
I just thought I was asking how we could implement an idea that already existed.
So I really can't take credit for any of it because all I just said was can we do it
and the two of them put it together and emailed me the results.
So full credit to Code Cruncher and to Ken Fallon for that.
Code Cruncher wrote the code that would turn it into a PDF that could be printed.
Ken adjusted the CSS of the website and I think made a special page just so that that
data could be pulled from it.
So I think that's what had gone on.
You'd have to hear from the two of them.
I know I contribute to hacker public radio.
I'm not much of a hacker, not software-wise, but I just love hacker public radio.
It's one of my favorite things.
I also would like to thank Clot 2.
He designed a lot of business cards for HPR and there's still room for more business
cards.
Apparently, when we print them out, we can have a whole bunch of different faces on the
business cards and they all have the same back.
And I think Clot 2 designed most of what we have.
Code Cruncher took it upon herself to purchase two boxes of business cards and had them delivered
to me to bring to the fest.
They were really cool.
Through all the different designs, I think there's 12 different designs and there are many
business cards.
So each one is half the size or a third of the size of a normal business card.
They were really, really great looking cards.
Each one had a unique design.
All the designs were cool.
I would venture to say that more people took a business card than took a sticker even.
I was actually pushing the stickers because I had so many of them and so few people at
the fest and I still think I handed out more people asked for business cards.
I think they took more business cards than stickers.
So that was great.
I want to thank Tony.
I'm going to leave his last name off here, but Tony emailed me and offered to bring
some gear to the fest because he was coming there.
I didn't actually need it.
I had an abundance of computers to use and a dearth of computers that worked with my microphone.
So that actually turned out to be one of the last minute things that I had to adjust for
before the fest that caused me to fall behind after the fest.
At the same time, I need to thank her Ubuntu tremendously.
Her Ubuntu took it upon himself to offer me a laptop and to actually ship me a laptop
and said he didn't expect it back.
I tried to offer him money for the laptop because I don't actually own a laptop and was
thinking, boy, that would be great if he's going to send me something.
I can use that until such time as a laptop becomes a higher priority and I can buy a newer,
more modern, bigger, better one.
He said he got the thing for free, wouldn't accept money for it and shipped it anyway.
I mean, the next thing I knew it was on my doorstep, he had UPSed it.
It's not a new laptop, it's an older laptop.
It's a Pentium 4 mobile IBM ThinkPad and I've been using the hack out of this thing
and I just want to thank you, Kerbuntu personally and over the air front everybody for I mean
such a generous, generous thing that you've done.
I can't thank you enough for that.
One downside to all of it is that my microphone wouldn't work with it so I wasn't actually
able to use it for much at the fast other than as a backup in case anything happened to
the computer that I wound up using there.
I know I said the only computer that I was going to have at my disposal would have been
my desktop and my primary desktop.
I didn't actually wind up bringing my primary desktop.
I brought a spare box that I had that I wasn't able to record with and I, you know, last
minute realized that it's probably not the computer caring about the microphone, it's
the sound card.
So I pulled the sound card out of my primary machine.
I put it in my backup machine, tested it out and it worked perfectly so I brought that.
That was actually a good thing because while it was there, we were able to make three recordings.
A gentleman by the name of Bob Evans recorded an actual episode at the table there and it
was a fun little introductory episode and his history with computing and it will have
aired by now, you will have already heard it or skipped it.
If you skipped it, go back and listen to it because it was really fun.
It was really nice of Bob to do that for us.
The other gentleman that recorded for us, Bill Plants, he stopped by the table and he did
a little review of the Fest Forest was really fantastic.
That wasn't quite the formatted to be a standalone episode but it was a great short on the
spot review of the Northeast Lennox Fest.
So rather than put it out as its own episode, I'm going to stick it in right here.
So Mr. Plants, Bill Plants, thank you very, very much for your recording and here it is.
Hi, my name is Bill Plants, I'm here at the Northeast Lennox Fest and I got to hear John
Mad Dog's haul talk and I'm going to talk this morning and so far I've heard some really
interesting stuff and I'll enjoy an heck out of it.
Did you talk to a lot of geeks down here?
Someone gave me a full size, somebody besides my wife that doesn't want to hear about computers.
It's been a good day.
Thanks, have a good day.
See, I told you that was great.
The next thing that I was able to record while I was there was an actual interview, Donald
Robertson and Matt Lee of the Free Software Foundation came and sat down with me at the
table and recorded an interview.
It was probably about a half an hour interview.
It also will have aired by now.
It's the first interview I've ever done, it's the first live face-to-face recording I've
ever done.
Well, probably not ever, but the first since I was about six years old.
It just went fantastically well.
I couldn't have asked for anybody nicer than these two guys to do an interview with.
They were just very cooperative and kind and respectful.
They had a lot of great stuff to talk about.
I thought the interview went really, really well and I enjoyed the episode.
At the time of this recording, it hasn't aired yet, but at the time at this little air,
it will have already done so.
You probably had a chance to listen to that, too.
If you haven't, go back and grab that episode, too, because I just thought it went really
well.
Those guys were really nice.
The fest itself was so much fun while I was there.
So many people came up to the table to see what Hacker Public Radio was about.
Heard me out as far as my little spiel, about creative commons being the media equivalent
of the GPL.
It was just really, really nice.
I showed up about an hour, I think, or 45 minutes maybe, before the conference opened.
The building was still locked when I got there and there was probably a dozen people standing
outside waiting for the place to open to go in.
When the doors opened, I pulled my mini van up to unload my gear and people just came
over and started grabbing gear out of the back of my van to bring in.
It was really, really nice of everybody.
I went to make a second trip and someone followed me out to help and it just, it was fantastic.
I wasn't expecting that yet.
This is our communities, there are people and this is how we act and I got to say I would
have done the same thing.
Had I seen someone move and stuff and the same group of guys, the people who didn't have
my stuff in their hands had Jonathan's stuff in their hands.
They had boxes of magazines, which I know weighed more than my stuff.
Those magazines were heavy, magazines that they were given out at the door and a bunch
of other stuff, the shwag bags, people carried those and it's just, this is our community
and this is why I love being part of it.
It was really, really great.
The festival was held inside a student building at the, I think it was the Worcester State
College.
The construction of the building was kind of neat.
It was almost like four buildings inside the same place.
It had a big open area in the middle and like a big open air hallways that, if I remember
correctly, went from the floor, you know, the ground level to the very roof of the building,
just big open areas and then there were like four kind of towers on each of the corners.
The ground level of two of them were conference rooms of which we only had one.
We only had one conference room for the day.
The other two, I think there was like a bookstore there and then a cafe and the other one.
Neither the cafe nor the bookstore opened.
The whole place was shut down when we got there and they opened it just for us for our
half a day and then after us there was another festival that looked like a lot of fun.
We almost could have stayed for the next festival.
It was like a multicultural festival.
People were really decorating that cool streamers and everything but we had the after party
instead.
So we were in like a cafeteria type section right in the middle.
There were some small tables.
You could tell people probably use it for eating, for studying, that kind of thing.
There was some small tables and some chairs and they had some folding tables for us and
we just pulled a couple of chairs over.
There was power.
There was Wi-Fi there.
Jonathan's wife helped us to log into that because you needed a password for the Wi-Fi.
So she gave everyone who needed it, that password.
And there was our table and the KDE table.
The guy at the KDE table was really cool.
He was a cool guy.
He had brought a full spread of KDE stuff.
I thought I brought a bunch of stuff.
This guy had the table covered from end to end with probably four or five different KDE
stickers.
He had a big like flip chart sized display behind him of KDE and he had CDs that he was
handing out, maybe even DVDs.
I think it was of Kubuntu.
I got it somewhere I looked at it but I'm not a KDE user so I didn't really get too
into it.
He was a really cool guy and the stuff that he had brought to hand out was really cool
as well.
Our table was basically just like a six foot or an eight foot long table.
The table cloth I brought didn't quite reach to the end of it but that's okay.
It looked all right.
And my mom actually is a seamstress and as a favor she made a banner for us that was
about maybe three feet wide and two feet tall of just white cloth with the letters HP
R sewn onto it and just cut out.
It was simple enough looking that I didn't feel guilty about it.
It looked like it didn't take her too too long to do but she's a highly, highly skilled
seamstress so it's quality and it's going to last us a while and it's got some straps
on it off the top so we could hang it on a wall behind the table if we wanted to or
safety pin it to the table where it was at.
I just hung it from the table because there wasn't anything to hang it on behind us.
The one regret that I have from that code country came up with the idea that we should
you know whenever we have a table at a festival have everyone who's an HP R contributor come
and sign that tablecloth or the banner I think would be more appropriate since it says
HP R on it and the tablecloth could be replaced if it were you know or damaged or anything.
And I forgot to have the guys who were there sign it though I was really sad about that
afterwards that I forgot to do that.
The tablecloth, the banner, the left over business cards, the QR code books, those things
I stuck in the mail and sent to code country when I was done with the fest.
Those are going to make an appearance at the Linux Fest Northwest.
She's going to be there running a table there so I just sent all the materials up to her
because I mean that's what we're about right.
So hopefully someone else will pick it up from there and want to run a fest somewhere
else in the country or in the world and we can mail the stuff out to you before I sent
that I did sign my name on it.
So hopefully that's enough of a reminder that you'll be able to have people sign their
names on it too.
Oh and the other thing I need to thank code country for and this was amazing.
She sent me t-shirt transfers.
Yeah I guess you can buy them at Walmart and they're not too expensive unless you're doing
a bunch for everybody but you stick them in your printer you print what you need on them.
You cut out the shape that you've printed and you can iron it onto a t-shirt and they'll
stick to a t-shirt and she sent me enough to make two t-shirts which was great because I
knew art was coming so I was able to pick up a shirt a t-shirt for me and a t-shirt
for art at Walmart and just kind of iron them on the night before.
That was so cool of her that was great.
They're really really cool because the HPR logo or not the logo but the sticker design
the oval sticker was one of the things on it and it fits perfectly on the pocket of a
t-shirt and I really only wear pocket t-shirts so I can stick my MP3 player in the pocket
and that was great on the front of the shirt but the other thing that she had done had
made up for the shirt and I don't know if she designed this or if somebody else did it
but it was hysterically funny to me and just so cool was a label to go on the back of
the shirt that looks like a laundry label like this is what the material it's made of and
this is how you treat it kind of thing that you see and attach to any shirt you know
with the little symbols of cold wash or cold dry cycle or whatever those little symbols
well she had mimicked that and had on there you know HPR contents are free and open
source type I don't remember exactly what it said and I could go get it but you should
check it out for yourself and she had little symbols on there for there were similar
similar to what Klausu had put on the business card and it was just so clever and so creative
and hysterically funny I was really really excited about that and I thought it was just so funny
and so great so Code Crunchert thank you for everything you've done for all the help so many people
came up to the table to talk to me that I can't remember who everybody was so many people
art and murf who were there at the table with me and why Bill came over and said hi we talked
a couple of times Jonathan Nadia was over there other guys who I mean I don't even remember
anybody I feel bad naming anybody because they don't remember everyone's I'm so bad with names
you know anyway everybody came over to the table everyone who was there came over and said hi
I heard a little bit about it if they didn't know about it or I had a look and said what was cool
about it before this episode goes out I'm gonna add a couple of pictures that I took I didn't
spend a whole lot of time taking pictures but I did take a few pictures and I'm gonna add them to
our stickers in the wild album so you can see what the table look like we basically had my desktop
under the table with a mic plugged into it the keyboard and monitor were facing the front of the
table and I had audacity installed on that in case anybody wanted to record enough people came over
just to say hey look it's audacity and you know then kind of you know make a little joke about
audacity and instability or whatever and it's just you know frankly I wasn't there long enough
ago to remember audacity being a bad or an unstable program it's one of my very favorite programs
that I've ever used the only times I've ever been able to kill audacity is when I gave it a
task I didn't realize how big a task I was giving it and while it was thinking I thought I locked
it up so I ex-killed it when I restarted it it hadn't lost any data everything had been retained
it it auto saved everything so I have nothing but good to say about audacity and I made sure that
you know anybody who who seemed to have remembered it being not the program that it is now I made
sure to say look that was that was long ago it is no longer the way you remember it it is a fantastic
program now so I didn't make make a point to do that but it kind of seemed to distract a little
from the fact that the table was there for HPR not for audacity so I just kind of minimize that
and I had a wallpaper up there of the the HPR mic logo that that's been on HPR since the very
start and then Art had a couple of computers set up and he was he had some external laptop speakers
and was playing a couple of HPR episodes and a couple of promos through that when things were a
little quieter and people weren't recording or weren't you know actively asking questions about HPR
so that was really cool and really helpful to Merf was there he recorded with his his video camera
he recorded a bunch of the talks the first one with John Hall John mad dog hall that first talk
I don't know if you ran out of I think he said he ran out of storage on a thing maybe he hadn't
deleted something he thought he had deleted and it ran out of space so he didn't get the full talk
and that's that's unfortunate because I think we would have probably aired that but he was there
recording he was there working every bit as much as he was enjoying the fest he was really cool
he was a great guy full of energy and just a lot of fun to talk to all day art was a lot of fun
we talked a lot every time things quieted out the booth while there were talks going on I did see one
talk it was about Debian packaging and it was more of a talk not about how to do it and the technical
aspects of it but why someone might be interested in packaging for Debian and what benefits you might
get out of that either as a programmer or as a fan of a program and that was a really cool talk
is really fun and I recorded that for Merf while he sat at the table watch the table for us he
in art watched it for even took a stint doing that so that was really cool of them that was exactly
the kind of help that I was asking for and I do owe Merf a bit of an apology I forgot he said he
was coming and I would have made him a t-shirt because Code Cruncher also sent me the files to print out
more of those kits and I would have done that had I remembered in it it just slipped my mind and
I apologize for that the festival was great it was short but it was super just packed with good
information good people and fun stuff there was never really too much downtime except for the
guys you know we who were running the tables there was some downtime while their talks going on
but they kept everybody else engaged and involved the entire time I heard that the talks were fantastic
I didn't see any except for the one that also was fantastic I didn't see them but I heard
they were really great I don't think anybody left there disappointed or wanting more are well
everyone wanted more but I don't think anybody left feeling like they needed more to have made
it worth their time I should say that but there was even more for us to make it worth our time
Jonathan and again I kick in myself for forgetting his business partner's name and I'm just going
to call him his business partner for now and I can't remember their wives names either for the life
of me and it just that's just me I'm sorry they put on an after party at a local club it was
called Jillian's of course if you've heard their promo you knew that this is like a big pool hall
with like an arcade off the back Jillian's was really too loud to do any interviews at which
was kind of disappointing for me I had asked John Hall if I could interview him after the fest because
it was really no time to get it done there he was very busy and the only downtime that I had was
during talks and I done that one interview then he had given me permission for an interview and
he seemed pretty excited about it it just was not gonna work at Jillian's unless I asked him to
go outside and it was a little cold out that day so I wasn't gonna do that to the man it would have
to me felt disrespectful and I wasn't about that wasn't about to do that to him however he did
accept my apology and he gave me a business card and offered to do a phone interview which I
fully plan to do as soon as I can figure out the technology getting my cell phone hooked up to
the computer record I have an idea of how to make it work and I'm willing to do some research
if that doesn't and try to get something going the after party at Jillian's was really cool it
was really fun it was more than I expected they had bought a couple of like buffet trays platters
to bring out so everybody got a bite to eat I don't think anybody was expecting that but we
actually got fed I don't know how many people showed up maybe 30 or 40 you know maybe like two
thirds of the people who were there showed up and I don't think anybody felt like they had to order
food to be satisfied it was food left on the trays when the staff came to collect the second one
and clean it up so that was just I mean way above and beyond any expectations that I had I don't
imagine anybody else had expectations of even that much let alone more than that I can't say
enough good things about this festival this was their inaugural festival hopefully it's the first
annual northeast canoe linux fest because I would really love to do another one it would really
be fantastic to go back next year and do it all over again it would be so much fun if anyone
you know is in the area next year wants to hit a fest that's a lot of fun and they do it again
I'd recommend going to it I'm not sure at this point where the video or audio from the talks
is posted online I know it was planned to have been posted online by the time this show hits the
feed I hope to have found that information and I'll put it in the show notes so if you're
interested in those talks they were talks by John Hall Matley I don't know if Donald Robertson gave
a talk he may or may not have there was a devian package maintainer that gave a talk and I
forget his name I know there was a talk about myth which I completely skipped I don't watch
television I don't know how on a television so I don't really have too much interest in myth but
a lot of people came out of there saying a lot of nice things about it too that might have been
it for the talks I'm not sure if I've forgotten anyone or anything I apologize the festival itself
was on April 2nd and at the time of this recording it's April 12th so it's been a full 10 days
since the festival like I said I just ran out of time between Saturday and Tuesday to get
everything done I didn't I didn't even get my computers put back together I still haven't got
my computers back together the only working computer our computers in the house right now are my
wife's laptop which I try not to touch with the vista on it the one that curb unto sent me which
I am going to do a full review on a cool distro that I found that runs great on there and my little
EPC 701 which I don't really consider a laptop it's not much good for that it's got its uses but
it's certainly not a general purpose computer I don't think anyway I mean technically it is but
you wouldn't want to live with that as your only computer I can promise you that and the surgery
that I had I've been out of work for seven days as of today this is my last day and I go back to
work tomorrow I really was not able to get up and walk around the whole idea was that I was supposed
to sit in the chair or lie in bed and recover and heal and not pull stitches or anything like that
and it was really painful to move around so I couldn't do too much I spent the whole first two days
distro hopping to find something that was acceptable on that laptop something that you know I could
work from the chair with it took me two days the CD drive on it was a little bit slow you know no
complaints it just took me forever and if I you know made a mistake installing and had to start over
or if I found that for some reason or other whatever distro I chose was not acceptable on that
laptop you know I had to start all over again that just took a while and then of course I had to
edit Bob Evans show first I owed that to him because he came you know in record of the show he's
a new contributor and he really deserved to have that up there and also the interview with Donald
Robertson and Matley I owed it to them to get their stuff out before my material also so that's
why this is coming out so late and after those other things you know not to mention the whole time
I'm stuck in my chair it was kind of painful it was the greatest post-surgery recovery time
I've ever had I'm gonna just make an excuse here and just say that it wasn't the most fun I've
ever had in my life it just took me a little bit longer than I wanted it to but now here I have
finally recorded the Northeast GNU Linux Fest it is a hundred percent positive except for my own
shortcomings I hope that it happens again and now I'm done thank you and have a great day
thank you for listening to Half Republic Radio HPR sponsored by Caro.net so head on over to
C-A-R-O-J-E-C for all of us here
