Episode: 367
Title: HPR0367: Screw you Hacker
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0367/hpr0367.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 19:03:08

---

Hey!
I don't mind if you read my blog and send me any mail or two.
You can't give me anything you want as long as my junk mail still tears it through.
I think I learned a new script today, though I couldn't get it to quite work.
Looked it up on a couple of sites, all I found were trolling jerks,
and all of a sudden out of nowhere, my website didn't work.
Logs were overflowing with gibberish, and I began to curse the world.
This one goes out to the person that hacked my side this week.
Screw you, screw you, screw you, screw you, screw you.
This week I began to use Twitter, and found many who like open source.
It's a love-hate relationship that will eventually run its course.
Many of the IRC guys are on there, helping others selfishly.
I wrote a blog post about it, and moderated the comments diligently.
All of a sudden out of nowhere, my website didn't work.
Logs were overflowing with gibberish, and I began to curse the world.
This one goes out to the person that hacked my side this week.
Yeah, that's right.
Screw you, screw you, screw you, screw you, screw you.
Screw you, screw you, screw you, screw you, yeah, that's right.
In case you didn't hear, my website got hacked this week.
Yeah, buffer overflow.
It teaked me off a little bit.
You know, here I am and try to help people have a little fun with a podcast,
and some turd hacked my website.
So this one goes out to that gentleman, or a general gal, that decided to hack me.
Yeah, everything's fine now.
It wasn't that bad, but it teaked me off all the same.
So I wrote this little song, and I hope whoever did it hears it.
And if you do,
screw you, screw you, from Chad Wallenberg,
Adlin X-Base-Ment.
Mydismasement.com.
Come on over and visit.
Good night.
Thank you for listening to Hack the Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Pharaoh.net.
So head on over to C-A-R-O-J-E-C-R-L-O-T-E.
