Episode: 32
Title: HPR0032: UCLUG - Ken Wehr Presentation
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0032/hpr0032.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 10:36:54

---

Yes and thank you.
Hello and welcome to the UN, we are here at the same thing that welcome to the UN meeting.
My name is Jeremy Erie, I'm one of the hook, I guess most three couple of moderators
for this RAK group here. I just wanted to make a quick announcement and that would be to
advise really to shop their cell phones just to put them on buzz so that it doesn't interrupt
anything. And I wanted to welcome everybody and let me know that this is a great opportunity
to hear about some great things from Google and about the FLC project and about the FLC general.
I'll turn it over to Rick Smith, who actually will be all the formal connections.
I'll actually do the whole stuff. Not too formal, but I guess I'm kind of like the ghost of
Bucklox past, because I started the group one more time, and there's a goat. And my first meeting
was at trucking on the ground, and one of the person showed up. And we didn't show up because
their wife was on vacation and they had nothing better to do. But I feel since then, and we've had a lot of different
meeting places, and we've had a mixed turnout, but we're almost 10 years old, and we still have a lot of stuff going on.
We've had kind of a rejuvenation, I guess over the last few months, they have now
coordinated a lot of good presentations, and we've got things going again, and we've got a bunch of stuff
lined up in the next few months. One thing that I just started out is,
don't let us be time-warned, we'll be doing a presentation in the next couple of months.
We have, if I remember what the other one was, there's two others.
The pick list?
The pick list?
The pick list?
Yes, whatever that is.
Game 40.
That's like that.
So the funny thing is, I've got my name tag down here, it's almost clear to this leader.
And part of that was because I was terrified to get it from the group.
So I did it anyway, because I love Linux, and I wanted to share the Linux operating system that I found out about
that I thought was so neat, and so here we are, we're still doing it.
And we've got a lot of people who are actively doing things in the community.
One of them is the adult PC, Kevin.
That's the free Linux PC, getting out of the community,
and looking up companies that have all equipment that they're trying to find home for,
with people who need a PC, and they're getting Linux on, and people are getting to use computers,
and getting to learn about all the different stuff about Linux.
And thank for our current posts.
I find really neat, and it's time to love me.
So there's some things about me, and I've got enough of a talk for me.
Kevin, you want to come up and just give me a couple minutes on.
Can you go for it?
I got one.
Okay.
I'm on.
I'll talk about 10, 15 seconds.
No, I'll talk about 10, 15 seconds.
Well, just, if any of you need to use the restroom, down over there, in the hallway, through the door to the left.
Welcome to the media.
If we've been here since my phone, and we're really excited to be associated with the E-Club Group,
And the freelance PC program that uses a base point
to distribute PC since before Christmas.
And then we're excited to make use of this space.
This is kind of expansion space that we have.
I would use it for war and war and other media purposes.
So welcome to the media.
I'm really doing it.
If any of you guys don't have any clue about this
and are after this presentation,
we'll be kind of doing that right out here.
We'll take in and check out this.
Is that too bad to hack in?
No, yeah.
Sorry.
I just have to get up here.
Hello everybody.
Yeah, we started the free Alexa PC program.
Just some guys from the club back in 2007.
Basically, the idea is that we take computer donations
from local businesses.
We organize an event.
We bring the computers in,
we set them up on a table,
and then I find out the sponsor events
last four or three or four.
But that was put on a table.
That was coming in.
We wanted to get some of that.
But they put the computers together.
Then they install the software.
We'll go through some basics about Linux.
On the program, the idea, you know,
and try and get them to get on the internet.
We don't push them to do that.
Everything.
It's basically some of the hammer and some of the dom.
But we would like to get them to be able to get on the internet
and learn and have them.
Really, it's more of what we're hoping to get to the children.
You know, using a computer,
more of those things that we don't have on computers.
And there's a lot of ideas.
You can do it with a free Linux PC.
I've got a presentation back here.
If you want to put that,
I'm going to give you some ideas.
If you know you're going to see a free Linux PC,
you've got a free Linux PC.org.
We just started that.
You could use materials.
You can send an email to free Linux PC.
You know, dot com.
That would be happy to have you more about it.
Or set up some time to get the donations.
Thanks.
That's probably about it.
We've got to say it over here to be more information.
Thanks.
And now for our main presentation.
You guys, I don't know if anybody has asked me down here.
I can't wait.
At some point, go to Google.
So, I'm excited to hear about Google.
We have Ken Ware.
I'm Google.
And there he is.
It's all yours.
Hi.
Ken, I work for Google.
Who can guess why I'm here?
It's South Carolina.
We have cheap electricity.
Lots of green land.
All right.
No, not exactly that.
More people.
Exactly.
So, press release went out a while ago.
Google is building an A.J. Center.
Not in Charleston, but near Charleston.
Say, Berkeley County.
Which is three, four hours from here.
Three and a half.
So, that's what Google is here talking.
I'm talking also, kind of, for personal reasons.
I came from a town very, very comfortable to this one.
About the same size.
I had one to use this group.
It was the, it was a similar town for the perspective of,
it's not a town, extremely known for its IT background.
It wasn't, you know, about Silicon Valley.
That sort of thing.
There's a town that had a lot of history of textiles
and industry and that sort of thing.
And one thing that was very interesting about that town,
especially having that, when it's used group there,
was there are tons of people that are interested in Linux.
And not only works for small businesses that use it,
but people that are interested in it as a hop.
And so, there's things left out about there.
Lots of them have something, apparently, or not.
There's a lot of you folks here, which is pretty cool.
So, whenever you get the opportunity to go and talk on behalf of Google,
especially to Linux, which is great, I take it.
I'm not a professional speaker, as you're about to,
thankfully, bear with us, too.
But I do enjoy talking to these sorts of folks.
And really, I'd like to save a whole lot of time for Q&A,
because in my experience, that's the best part of this whole thing.
But one thing I did want to touch on, in particular,
is my own experience going from Goa, where I was recruited from,
and I worked for Google.
Why I went to Google.
So, I was a Linux business administrator in a town about the same size,
as you know, a few hundred thousand people.
And I was really, really happy.
I worked for a very small key shop.
It was, you know, five or six Deeks,
and there was a Linux business administrator here.
Anyone?
Do you do anything besides Linux system administration?
Yes, but that's changing.
Basically, I keep pampering my bosses to change software
a few months ago.
I migrated thus from exchange to zebra.
So, I'm pampering away at what's left that's not in there.
So, I'll go ahead and ask you this.
Do you do network administration?
Yes.
Do you do security stuff at all?
Yes.
Okay.
You do it all, right?
You look at new products and encourage them into the business
that sort of thing.
That's what I did too.
And I really liked it.
I liked wearing four different hats.
I liked being a Linux guy.
I liked being kind of the most experienced guy there,
which was, you know, was not saying a lot.
It was easy.
You know, there's like six guys there.
So, it's kind of nice.
And I really didn't want to go over for a big company.
You know, Yahoo or some Microsoft,
especially if I'm calling it, I told them you're not saying it.
And then the opportunity to maybe go work for Google came up.
And it actually caught my interest.
And it was probably the only big company that really could
caught my interest in that way.
And the big part of that is having been a very active member
of our Linux users group.
And it's very cool to hear about the free Linux PC thing.
We did a number of projects like that as well.
I'd suspect that you all are doing it as much better than we were.
We're in a more organized fashion.
But it's nice to be a part of a community-oriented group
that is also a technology-oriented group.
It's sort of an interesting dynamic that we have
with Linux and open source culture, generally.
And to me, Google as a company did a lot to further that.
So, I wanted to touch on some of the things that I find interesting
about Google as a company, kind of a high-tech presentation.
This is a cheat paper.
A cheat paper.
A cheat paper.
I feel pretty sorry and then ask about it.
This is not a structured thought.
Some examples that I just wanted to run through of things
that Google does as a company that really sort of further
this mindset of being a community-oriented,
especially from a technology perspective.
Most of you are probably familiar with the number of APIs
that Google has released for services.
Who's actually used one?
Cool.
Someone has asked a question.
So, at least open APIs are interacting with a lot of global services.
Like Google Calendar and YouTube.
Or recently, it's up to social thing.
Chart service is a cool thing.
The Picasso web.
All these things where you can directly create these mashups,
sort of sites, or just sort of programmatically poke
a different Google services.
Which, it's kind of a testament to Google's presence
as far as being an open company.
A lot of companies will open up and provide
different things.
But it seems like Google really goes out of their way
to attach an API to just about everything that they can.
And to me, that's really a smart way to run the company
because they kind of get it.
So, when you open up your services like this,
all these people like people sitting in this room
have an opportunity to go fiddle with it
and do something cooler than it was meant to be done originally.
And it kind of brings exposure to the service itself.
And probably the best thing is people hammering these APIs
and they find problems.
And then they send it back to the company
and then the engineers fix it.
And it's kind of the whole sort of software
dynamical over again.
One thing that's really cool is Summer of Code.
Who's heard of that?
This is a really cool program.
It's essentially Google is paying call students
to work on open source projects.
And so it's usually, you know, I think it runs over the summer.
And hundreds of organizations basically set up
issue trackers for things that they want fixed.
Open source organizations like Apache,
Python software foundation.
And like 100 out of so much of the list today,
it's just that.
So they have kind of a little repository
where you can go and pick a bug.
And it's not always fixing software.
Sometimes it's right documentation.
The one laptop per child thing is on there.
And I think a lot of that is sort of right documentation
and that sort of thing for those projects.
But as a student, you can go and claim some of these open issues.
And you get paid a stipend.
And you work with an engineer who sort of helps
mentor you to do the same.
And they pay $4,500, which is kind of a cool thing,
especially for college kids.
They're doing something else targeted at high school students.
They're basically called.
And when you remember those companies,
it's almost the same exact thing,
but it's for high school students.
So it's relatively good this year.
Sponsor organizations of that are Python Apache,
Open Office, One laptop per child.
Obviously, GITs, Gen2, you name it.
And you can imagine why there's so many people,
or organizations participating.
Because here's, they have all these open bugs
that are just sitting and staying all forever.
And now that this opportunity for Google
actually paid people to go fix their bugs.
It's kind of a cool thing that Google makes it available.
And where that's not enough, Google
just kind of plays a patch for a lot of these organizations.
They donate millions of dollars across Apache,
Python, Samba, Java, and the form of grants,
which is kind of a cool thing.
Probably.
How do you love to get patented at that time?
Let me resume.
But one of the cooler things, in my opinion,
is a lot of the projects that are developed
completely internally to Google later become open source projects.
And this happens fairly quickly by industry standards.
So some cool thing will be developed entirely by Google Engineers.
And it's being useful by our open source SART.
And then this will go through this process of getting open source
in a very first fashion.
So one of the things, probably, there's the MySQL tools
I've previously seen this.
It's been a while now.
It was over, I think, year ago.
That's right.
It was a cool thing.
They released a bunch of these tools for administrative
might as well.
And I think at the same time, there was a lot of patches
for the AWS itself, which is kind of cool thing.
Can anyone heard Canette?
What?
You're the first one.
So I got released.
And I thought it was going to be really huge.
It sort of came out under the very other.
But who's sort of Zen virtualization?
A lot of people are.
So Google developed this kind of in-house Zen cluster management system
called Canette.
And it was also a source of those.
It's a really cool product.
It's a really different number of things.
I want to ask you what he thinks of it.
You might not get good.
You might not get good.
You might not get good.
Yeah, it's about to one.
Is it something?
No, it doesn't.
It's something that scales to a level that is unnecessary.
Yeah.
It's good for a much larger, sensory form, maybe in the box.
But it's good.
Yeah.
So that's not the only thing.
Other people that have used more of that here are very good.
I don't work directly with it myself.
But there are people that I work directly with.
So they think they like it a whole lot.
That's always interesting.
They hear it and we turn it in.
Anyway, that was another example of something
that they developed in-house.
It's really something.
Can I ask you a few questions?
Yeah, sure.
I'm particularly interested in Zen in dual-operated
virtualization stuff now.
How much is Google using, like, you know,
I'm guessing Zen is a built-in source, you know?
How is Google using virtualization internally, you know?
How do you use it, Zen, or what are they kind of go with?
You know, I think.
Yeah.
I mean, so this is where I-
It's the first thing part about working at Google.
I mean, Google is slightly less secretive than the NSA.
Right.
I hope so.
Do we look like a question to say this or no, kind of thing?
It's, so, I mean, I could say that, you know,
Zen is used and can any in particular is used for a whole lot of things.
I can also tell you that it's not-
Zen is not something that scales really to the whole of Google
production infrastructure, which is vast.
Right.
How many serves?
I can't write it.
I definitely can't answer that one.
If you look at good netting and what it says,
you can kind of infer the scale there, you know?
And I don't deal much with virtualization myself on a regular basis.
What are you doing?
You might have already told us that.
Yeah.
What are you doing internally through?
That sort of fits generally into what I was going to talk about.
Just a second.
So, but I don't want to come back to kind of some of the tools that are used in production
that I can't talk about.
Just a bit of papers right now.
Other examples of open-source stuff that was done internally is Matt Fuse,
which is kind of a smaller one.
Google Web Toolkit was one, and we were just talking about that one.
For people who haven't used it, who's actually used Google Web?
Or at least heard it.
You write your web application in Java, and it's compiled into an
sort of AJAXY JavaScript for one site.
So, you don't have to really worry about JavaScript subtleties
and going across different browsers and doing all of a stuff yourself.
So, I don't want to Java, and you kind of, it gets one into this
full-fledged JavaScript.
It's a really cool thing.
It's actually built by a team, and here's an AJAXY.
And I've met them, and they're all really cool.
Well, and the big one is the Android SDK.
So, it's been a musical lot, and it's not what people thought it was initially.
But nonetheless, it's a very cool thing.
So, it's a top-to-bomb open-source stack for developing mobile applications.
And I think the big surprise, when it was finally sort of unveiled,
was that Google wasn't making a g-phone.
They were making open-source software to run any number of g-phones,
which struck me as kind of a much smarter way to do it.
And this really speaks back to what I was talking about,
is Google being a very community-oriented sort of open-source advocate.
And that's a great example.
You know, why make yet another phone, when you can make a software stack,
where anybody can make a phone, but it's open.
And that's something a lot of us have wanted for a long time.
So, I'm glad we did it.
Okay, so in addition to these things, we have a lot of Google staff engineers
that continue to work on open-source projects.
So, we hire a lot of sort of the deep rock-star folks,
like we have NROS, some of the Python thing,
and Jeremy Allison of Samba.
And one cool thing is usually they'll hire these guys,
and they say, well, so you can do Google stuff,
but, you know, for half your time or whatever,
you'll continue to support Python.
You can sit there and work on Python 3000,
and with the majority of your time.
So, I've got a lot of these guys for their wisdom,
and their expertise, and they work on a lot of global projects,
but they continue to support these great kind of open-source entities,
whether it's an application or a programming language, or whatever.
Other examples of that are my SQL, Gnome, Subversion, Line,
a lot of these open-source projects that we'll see,
either direct daily development by some Google engineers
or have received extensive patches that we sent by Google engineers.
So, this is one of my favorite things about it.
Sort of on the same token.
I'm working at Google as a geek.
I love Linux, I love technology,
and I have a number of these guys that I just consider,
and I consider it as my geek hero.
So, we don't have Rosem's one.
Brilliant guy, I love Python.
My team is almost dedicated to Python programming,
and we know it's a very cool guy.
So, if I have a particularly challenging Python question,
I can ask Guido Van Rosem, and get him straight from the horse's mouth,
which that never ceases to get old.
Or that never gets old.
So, that's pretty cool.
And if that's not enough, now we have Ken Thompson.
And so, if I have a really great unit question,
which I probably would take to Thompson,
but if I wanted to, I could take it to the guy who's fun.
Which is a child.
Another example, back to the Android thing a little bit,
Andy Rubin, he's not quite as famous as those guys,
but he was one of the principles at Danger.
Who's had a sidekick or who's seen one?
That was Danger, Incorporated.
He did a T-Mobile, and released that phone.
And Andy left Danger and came to Google,
and that was kind of where Andrew came from.
So, he's a lot of Andy Rubin's experience
from that to kind of develop Android.
And the software stack, which is cool.
So, you have Ken Thompson and Unix.
Vint Cerf, knows who Vint Cerf is.
I had the considerable pleasure to have lunch with Vint Cerf.
So, he came to visit, and he wanted to talk to the local
when he existed mentioned, and software developers.
And so, I got to sit in the room with about a dozen guys
and just kind of talk to Vint Cerf.
And, which I knew a week before him, and he was coming,
and I'm so excited, and I'm telling my mom.
She's like, who's Vint Cerf?
You know anything.
We also have Chris DiBona, which you know,
is probably the most famous of all of his guys,
but Chris is, I think he's a former Sasha editor,
but he's sort of famous for being famous about an open source.
And he is, he is, he's ever going back to Walls Weekly.
I guess.
I don't know.
I don't know.
But now, he is tasked with being our open source advocate.
So, he is the guy that really streamlines this process
for releasing internal applications,
and he is also kind of a client czar to ensure that everything
that we use at their party, that we're maintaining, you know,
DPL, and licensing, and he also very much encourages us
to reuse open source software in addition to contributing to it.
And so, he's got pretty much the dream job for when it's easy.
So, that's all kind of the cool community stuff
Google does for a tech perspective,
but there's also a lot of cool things that Google does
as far as Google.org.
And Google.org is, and this fellow director,
can I say it?
No.
Can we wrap it?
Close.
Let's go.
They do charity stuff.
So, they have all these, they're not necessarily techy related,
but some things they've done is this is a cool one, I think.
They will give away AdWords campaigns to nonprofits.
So, if you have a nonprofit organization
and you need to get awareness or advertising,
you can apply for this grant, and you usually get it,
and you will get free AdWords.
If you don't know what that is, you can,
when people search for certain keywords in Google
and it comes up with sponsored links, which, you know,
won't be all by ignored.
But, you know, 1% of people don't.
So, that's, or whatever it is.
People, I don't know if it's like a hundred or a hundred percent,
but that translates into a lot of people
actually looking at their ads.
So, these nonprofit organizations get essentially free advertising.
And that trucking is kind of a cool thing.
There's been, I wrote down some numbers before I came here.
3,300 nonprofit organizations across 16 countries
have benefited from that.
Totally, essentially, $290 worth of advertising.
Which is a pretty cool thing.
In addition to that, Google just kind of gives a lot of
grant money through Google.org.
If you look at the mission on Google.org,
I believe there's something a lot of lines up.
They want to give 1% of their revenue to these nonprofit things.
And a lot of it is kind of renewable energy.
And some of it is encouraging small and medium business
into developing countries and that sort of thing.
That's all right.
Kind of a cool thing.
That.
Okay.
So, more about kind of Google production infrastructure
and what I do specifically.
So, Google first started designing its own servers at House.
Roughly about 1999.
And the demand was so great for services
that it was almost an necessity.
Because no one was really making them exactly like we were doing it.
And we kind of approached things totally from a different end
than most people.
We decided we're going to use commodity servers.
And we're just going to build smart software that
worked around failures.
And that's kind of what enabled Google as a product infrastructure
to do so cheap.
Yet so powerful.
And it was kind of cool thing.
Well, we've continued to do that.
Power and flowing is a big concern.
So, we spent a lot of time thinking about sort of thing.
The production infrastructure is almost entirely Linux.
Or is it, I can't take it anywhere with it's not Linux.
And my group in particular.
So, I work in hardware operations.
Specifically, my team, which is a subset of hardware operations,
is it's called hardware systems.
And that's what I was hired for.
Sort of as hired to do for Google.
I was hired to the CNN Linux system administrator.
And one thing I like to point out with this team,
that's a little kooky, is we're all Linux system administrators.
But the scale we work at is so large.
A lot of us end up doing almost full time software development work.
So, when you think about what, when it systems do,
you have this, you know, fable of the system.
And you watch a new job.
And then spend five minutes writing a script to do this job.
And then you just place, you know, next time.
So, it's sort of the same principle.
But you have to think of how large Google's production infrastructure is.
And, you know, globally.
And it's a lot of linking lines.
And so, there's that much more stuff to automate.
So, I have the extreme pleasure of being a part of that group
that is in charge of automating a lot of the,
when existing tasks at a scale that is just lost.
I love it.
It's a cool kind of hybrid team.
So, a lot of us end up writing software.
So, in some ways, we end up looking like software engineers.
But, we still have to have this experience
with being system administrators.
And knowing how to administer certain services.
And how to do monitoring and triage.
And just sort of all these things that really make up the red butter
of being a system administrator.
And we have to kind of marry that with stream automation.
And knowing how to write lots of code.
But they like the point out of this that for new hires,
we don't always just hire people that are greater writing.
Python code.
Sometimes we'll hire somebody that's written on a pearl.
But it's just a great system administrator, traditional system administrator.
Sometimes we'll hire someone who, you know, is kind of weak sauce
on the system inside.
But it's just a great code.
And we're trying to get a good well-rounded group here.
And that is just my group.
So, my group is part of the market.
It's part of our cooperation.
And it's put it simply or responsible for Google's production
of the company, which is a quite horrible and vast charge.
As you can probably guess, Google has a lot of machines
and very everywhere.
And this new data center going on in Charleston is yet another example
of what we're expanding to.
One thing I really like about this department is,
it's sort of the bare metal of Google.
So we are, in essence, the common denominator for everything.
So every software engineer, whether you're writing Gmail
or whatever, your service runs on machines that we own.
But it's kind of a cool position to be in,
not from a power perspective, but a perspective perspective.
We get to see it and fit everything.
We get to learn a lot how everything works really from
from top to bottom, bottom up really.
We get to work with a lot of different teams in Google.
So on a daily basis, it was one of the biggest customers
of video conferencing.
I talk to engineers, all of the world,
in addition to other people in hardware operations.
I get to understand how things are working,
or where they're not working, and help resolve issues like that.
So this sort of goes back to my initial point of,
when I was working for that small company,
and I really liked being that guy who wore five different hats.
And I didn't want to leave that.
That's one of the reasons that I wanted to go to Google.
Because I knew that I could continue to wear different hats
and learn and have my fingers and all sorts of different technical areas.
And I had to say that I've been able to continue doing that.
I didn't want to end up as just a cog in the big machine.
That was my fear going into a big company.
I'm happy to say it hasn't been okay.
On a personal level, so I worked as a senior Linux system administrator
for about a year and a half, and I recently defected
to the dark side of management.
I'm happy to say that it's not quite as office space
as I was afraid it would be.
So I'm able to remain a very technical manager.
My guys keep me honest.
If I find out everything they know,
and a little bit more, I'll still just not listen to you.
It's going to happen.
So it's a pretty cool job.
Yes.
Well, yeah.
So the, specifically, the facility in Perfect County.
So I have to walk a fine line of what I can say,
and it was the kind of a hole.
So I'd be left secret if I didn't say anything.
But so it's, it's at Berkeley County,
which is just outside of Charleston, it's my understanding.
They're testing the facility in Q1 of 2008,
which is right now.
A fully operational, targeted,
and a later half of this year, Q3 and Q4.
Some of the services that will be running out of the data center
are web search, Gmail, YouTube,
finance, calendar, iGoogle, maps, books,
probably a lot of other stuff.
We tend to have good smattering of different services
running out of this facility.
So it's a good opportunity to really get involved
with a lot of the lessons,
which is a very good thing on the level.
It's sorts of people that were looking higher.
So I talked to them in depth about my particular group.
And so I'm sort of selflessly motivated to come in here.
I was like, I would like to find about, you know,
five or six great system administrators
coming to work in Charleston.
But there are also a lot of other job openings available.
Data center tech technicians.
This is not your typical kind of rack of stack
business center tech job.
These guys are very, they have a lot of opportunity
to work in a lot of different areas
and a lot of times those guys only know that my group
is the system administrators and or programmers.
Facilities technicians, people working on, you know,
cooling administrative openings,
all things like that.
And I have a whole bunch of these not just bright colored cards
in the back that have the address of the front of the jobs on,
which is in this place to start looking for something.
But I'm also here to answer questions.
So what questions do you have for me?
Let's start with the obvious one.
What's your digital choice?
Another one I can't say.
Are you asked about me personally?
Personally.
Ah, so I was a slackwarrr fella before I came to Google.
I hear you.
And I still play with the digital time stick.
I don't have the opportunity to mess with the flesh anymore these days.
I guess I indirectly said that we don't do slackwear.
I've got to get into the trouble.
Why did you tell them that?
This Google I was going to like distribution accounts.
Um, so what up?
Does everybody?
You know what I'm saying?
To something like that.
All right, dude, dude.
I mean, things happen.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
I think I'll ask her.
What crazy person came up with Google T.I.
S.P.
It was one of the April Fool's Jets.
That's the, uh, refresh my memory.
Uh, I think it stands for toilet internet software.
Yes.
Sorry about that.
Yeah, you flush the cable on a toilet internet.
Google picks it up on the bottom end.
And the DNA scanner thing used.
Yeah.
It's home.
I like the G-Paper one.
I thought that was really cool.
I didn't want to shift your whole Gmail inbox.
I don't know.
That's your question.
Some of yours.
Somebody had too much free time.
I forgot about that.
I think it was the gym that gets all the artwork through the...
Was it?
That's the Google icon.
He creates all those fancy woods for all the spectators.
The hall of day ones?
The hall of day ones.
Yeah.
I think that was his idea.
It was not new folks.
I got way too much free time.
During our work.
I don't know what shot will work.
I'm talking about it.
Are there going to be, uh, two days and something like that?
I just creak in something else.
I don't know how to deal with a little too far about that.
I get it.
So my knowledge...
I know there was speculation going around or something.
And something about land purchase, but I'm not sure.
To my knowledge, the one in Berkeley County is the one.
Do you have another one going up in the North and North?
The North is announced and is public.
Yes.
They're following a similar timeline to South Carolina as well.
So as you can see, I'm very invested in talking to people and trying to find some more people that come more critical.
So what can you say about a one and a three?
I mean, it means being more specific than what you've already said that you can say.
Well, so...
It's South Carolina.
It's in South Carolina.
It's very neutral.
People have lots of computers in it.
It's, uh, think of back to details that were publicly available.
It's roughly 200 jobs, I believe.
Someone got me some of money in the days that they spent for it that was also released.
It's, um, I can't talk generalities about, you know, what it's like to work in a data center for Google.
One thing I like to talk about is that I thought was interesting.
Starting there is, it's nothing like you would expect.
So I worked in a lot of jobs, IT jobs.
I really went in there with a certain idea of what it was going to look like.
And one thing that I can't say is Google just sort of froze conventional wisdom out the window and sits down and comes up with what is really the best solution with the problem of hand.
And it's kind of an interesting dynamic because the problem of hand for Google is a problem that no one else has really solved.
And this sort of goes back to the original decision to use these commodity PCs and write this great software stack on top of it.
We had this production things like MapReduce and Bigtable.
If you go to, this is a really cool thing.
And I found this before I started and this was something I read through before I was interviewed.
So I could actually talk smart about Google.
If you go to labs.google.com slash papers.
There's something like 50 or 100 different research publications.
And so, I mean, I make fun of how secret Google is.
But on the other side of that coin, they've released a ton of research publications about Google Production Infrastructure.
There's even one on the data centers themselves.
And power and cooling.
The director of VP at my department.
But there's also a paper written on MapReduce.
MapReduce is this kind of very distributed system for performing very simple operations.
You know, Bigtable is this very large.
It's this great Bigtable.
It's a database of sorts.
It lives on top of GFS, which is a Google file system, which you can also read all about.
From that list of papers.
And Wikipedia is a source of a whole lot of this stuff.
We're only just going down.
There's something on Wikipedia called, I think, a Google platform, which really tries to throw a lot of things from a lot of these papers.
And, you know, maybe they're writing it or not.
But there's a ton of these publications that you can go reading and get a lot of really specific details that I mean more than I can remember.
But, you know, all the fun stuff I can't answer.
You know, what distribution do you guys have?
I can't say.
Yeah.
It's just a little fun.
We're talking all about how you guys do monitoring.
Or are you know, outsourcing that unimaginable things develop internally.
You know, outsourcing that.
I hope so.
But it's not yet.
I don't know that it will be, but it might be looking at our past.
I wouldn't be surprised if another one of these sorts of papers comes out about, you know.
If they're going to write a paper, I'm happy to use something that was, you know, very proprietary.
Then I don't imagine it'd be too far in the stretch for the earliest papers on those sorts of things, you know.
Is there a difference between the two data centers in terms of size?
Or between those out of Carolina and North Carolina?
Yeah.
Or are they essentially mirrors in each other?
The latter, I believe.
And I'm guessing they don't exactly know.
But I'm trying to join my department.
I think South Carolina, it was targeted around 200.
And so the press release said, we're not 200.
We're trying to definitely, you know, hire local talent.
That sort of thing.
And I know that John is at the local first county.
But, you know, I would love to find some one assistant administrator.
From where did you come from?
Where is it your own?
In Miami.
And where did you come from?
Did you grow up in the system?
Columbus, Florida.
I spent a few years in the Army and I ended up, which is, you know,
Columbus right before bedding.
And then I got to the Army and I just sort of, you know,
stopped at Columbus and finally got back into IT at very, very long trouble.
And then I looked.
I mean, please just keep your head open.
And say.
I never know what you're saying.
A little bit of both.
Come on.
How about going to the community because it's possible to live here and hold one of those jobs?
Probably not for these sorts of jobs.
Well, conceivably, it's possible for the bulk of what they're hiring for.
It requires a lot of hands-on.
A lot of these 200 jobs will be guys that are actually deploying equipment
and doing hands-on sorts of things.
My guys have the potential to work remotely, but I also like to have them there
so they can support the needs of the data center.
So one of the reasons my group in particular is so why we contributed
is because we've got a lot of value in having kind of a bedding team in there too.
Our customers are all internal.
So we don't have any kind of desktop support and anything like that.
Our customers are the data center technicians themselves
and people will be using tools we create to kind of administer things.
So I'd like to have this guy play next year.
So you're saying that you're with the hardware.
We say hardware operations.
And so not just direct expect, but also the administration of the system.
Installations, configurations, monitoring, you're saying?
You have anything else along with that?
Network deployments.
So it's a useful tool to remotely manage your devices?
Yes.
Wherever possible.
Yes.
Did I get a telephoto?
No.
I'm not asking.
Yes.
Yes, we're asking all stuff that I can't answer.
Go horrible.
He's tailed at me.
Yes.
All right.
I'm a senior USC officer.
I recognize a couple of seniors from USC officer here.
The plurality of CS graduates from USC Obstata,
higher than the US one.
It's one where they do ATM software and visual-based,
and co-volving.
That's not happening, at least for me.
Yes.
Would Google just ignore me since I am still in the process of getting
a undergraduate degree, or would it still be worthwhile to send them my resume?
It would definitely be worthwhile to send a resume.
So there's this little clause in the job wreck
that says bachelor's degree or equivalent experience.
And I don't tell anyone, but that's, I use that myself.
I was one of those.
I never finished my computer science degree.
I've got, you know, about two years here and there,
it's been across four different colleges.
And I was one of the ones that was lucky enough to begin working right in the field
before I could finish my degree.
And I think I was working 80 hours a week,
and I didn't have time to study calculus.
So I mean, you know, I say lucky because
Grados employee, and I get lots of great experience,
but I still want to go back and finish my degree.
But I just never had the opportunity.
So here I am, you know, four years after having kind of put on that,
you know, I'm still saying,
now I'm just going to go back and do it like an English degree.
I don't want to do computer science in college.
Google is like a university itself,
honestly, working there.
I'm like, he's so smart.
I can't answer your question yet.
Send them.
Send it on.
Definitely.
You said you were keen.
I'm just curious.
What percentage of Google is
I used to want to see a percentage
which you want to be able to see.
Personally speaking.
I would like for it to be.
But, you know, obviously it's not really good.
How much percentage?
For percentages.
It's a hard question if they answered.
I mean, as far as lines of code,
it's, I don't know, I couldn't say.
I do know that Cristobona is trying to get them
to open source as much as they possibly can.
And one of the things that he's really doing is
is straight line the process to do so.
You have to go through all these different kind of audits
to make sure that, you know,
what you're really seeing is all the source really
you meant to, you know, on that sort of thing.
It's an ongoing process.
One of the cool things, and sort of on the same topic,
was a mention of these research publications.
So Google released a research publication on MapReduce
which is a kind of parallel process,
same thing that we have.
And then someone took the concept of that language
and all the details of the paper
and did sort of an open source clone,
but there's something similar.
I put the names on it, but I do.
So it's, these sort of things happen.
And that's, that's sort of like open source by proxy.
So you know, open source is software itself,
but you say how we did it.
Same thing with Google file system,
Google file system, massive way,
distributed storage system.
And I believe there's something similar to that as well.
It's, it's kind of cool.
But if you can't open source the software itself,
and it weighs as much as you can about it,
it's something you also just call it.
That, to be honest, a lot of what we have,
what we may run on our infrastructure.
You know, for, nobody has the,
the infrastructure really,
it's a kind of dynamic audience.
That's why it's so custom.
Yeah, some kind of questions.
Probably outside of your reading,
the experimental tables are,
there'll be a,
in the spread of them,
and then you know,
all sorts of examples of it.
I wish I knew.
I did that.
Seriously.
I don't.
I mean, I, I follow that,
but I guess,
one of these things is so far outside of my stand-up office.
I just, I don't have the rope,
you feel on it.
There was no,
there they came fraught from the door,
to the office,
to the office.
probably lasting.
Yeah.
There was something from, I believe, our legal VP guy, sort
of a state that I thought I'd forget exactly what it said.
But it was, sort of, the respondent.
For the spectrum, I probably know as much as you all,
because that Google industry web launched.
And Google is pretty good about talking
about things internally.
It's a pretty open culture.
They don't have a lot of information hiding.
If you're an employee, and you're full time,
they do pretty good job keeping up the speed of what's
going on in the things.
However, that's just one of those things that I think is just
so there's some work on that.
Or I just didn't get any information.
A lot of times I don't find out about that.
I like to do that, but nobody did that.
So my friends will tell me stuff I didn't know about Google.
A skill of 1 to 10, what would you say, employee satisfaction
is group group.
I didn't even talk about perks that I, oh.
I guess that's a 10.
I don't like, this is the third or fourth talk
like this is that down for when I shoot a group.
And one thing I purposely don't do is try and lock in
and say and give a laundry list of all perks,
because you can go read the fortune agency
and find all that stuff, too.
And I just don't want to rehash it.
Really what I like to do is talk about why Google
appeals to when it's user group type in.
Yeah, when I go out.
Yeah.
When I got hired by Google, I glowed
at all the place from my old box up.
I sent them a box of Google features.
It was great.
They can't wear t-shirts to work there.
So I'm like, you see?
I sent like 40 Google t-shirts to the old notes.
I was like, ah.
But I'm such a ass.
But it's the greatest food I've ever had.
I get three meals a day now.
Gourmet chefs, they have a sage.
And I bring my dog to work every day.
My dog plays with the guy's dog.
He sits next to me and he just roll around all day long
and they bite each other.
They're lunchtime, and we'll take the dog's
out their leash and we'll be a pack of six or seven dogs.
Running around the office, I think that it's like a well
frontier of dogs, great.
But it's a dance here question.
It's a wonderful company to work for.
I mean, so that shows in the media a big end.
But it really is.
They do a good job of taking care of people.
And it all kind of settles.
One of the perks that I've read about it
was really neat is the 20% personal projects.
What's your 20% project?
I don't have one.
But I should.
That's on my agenda to actually select one.
One of those workaholics that what I'm actually working on
is what I want to be working on.
So I work on it all the time.
And yeah, it doesn't really cross my mind on a regular basis
to go find something else that I probably
should have just written the version.
Yeah, you do it with free, but you get paid for it.
Exactly.
Yeah, this is something that I wrestle with myself.
I have the craziest job in the whole world for me.
And I put all my energy into it.
And even if I'm not doing it for money,
I'd be doing it anyway.
I'm going to have to tell them.
But so I end up talking about it sometimes.
So I have to, like, purposely make myself a vacation
and do something that's not Google's key stuff.
There was a recent article in Business Weekend.
Covered article in Business Weekend,
a guy in Google at first place for percent project
has created a huge new business with ideas.
It's just a fascinating thing.
And what do you want to read and go to the library and get that?
Do you remember what the business was?
Business Weekend from less than a month ago.
And what the actual project was.
Some of the new in cloud computing.
He was from the University of Washington, 17 years old.
It's a cool thing, that's 20% time.
Because it kind of gives you this outlet
for these new, almost like, startup type ideas.
Yeah, and that's exactly what it is.
And that's the intention, right?
So we want to capture this great, you know,
kind of just freeform random ideas
and let people run it.
So that's how to plug it.
Did you have your head up for it?
I did.
First of all, it's really fascinating
to hear a Google employee's perspective
or a word in your Google.
However, I've got, I'm kind of curious.
OK.
You described two personalities.
One is very open and very full of profit.
And one that's NSA-like.
How fun is it balanced those two?
We've watched you dance.
I'm very perceptive of you.
So to be very honest, that's really
the only thing that I don't like about Google.
And it's one of those things that's just necessary.
And I think that they are, if I joke instead,
that there's less security than NSA.
But in reality, they do open a lot of things
that they don't have to.
And now there's the issue of data centers
and not being able to say, you know,
we're just using it a lot sort of thing.
And at some point, there's just a business decision
on what they're going to release and what they're not.
And I'm comfortable with that.
There was a time, you know, and I was like,
information must be free.
And you know, everybody should know everything.
I don't know.
I've been able to jade it down.
But I realize that there's a business need to really
kind of play your card close.
Your best is for strategic advantage and competitive change.
There's so much Google.
There's more about you than anybody else's
in the world.
I've led their secret, right?
Right.
Well, so that's a very good point.
So part of that is trust, trust of the users.
Knowing that Google is not going to be very free
with your search queries, for example, that sort of thing.
I know it's not exactly the same thing,
but there is a lot of concern over trust, data,
confidentiality, that sort of thing.
And there's also the aspect of having
to keep certain things easier for a dependent advantage.
So, I mean, in the long run, it's a good thing,
because if it's a good business model
to not demolish some of that stuff,
and it ends up in the form of $20 million
for grants for people of countries,
then I think that's in that positive, you know.
That's the thing that pays for money for meals a day.
That's cool.
I can live with it.
To dance around this idea of what you can and what you can't
cover, do they, or do some sort of like a document
that says, these are the following items you can,
you cannot talk about it, I mean, it's just,
it seems like a strange, I mean, I can't talk about that.
I can't talk about that, it's very well-spirited.
What's it just like, man, I couldn't tell you about it.
I don't think I know that.
There is guidelines for what you can say and what you can.
And it's, I remember when I first started,
I thought, like, it was, you know, $200 million.
Yeah, this was about two years ago.
When I first started, I really didn't know
what I could and could not cover it.
And it took me probably this long to be comfortable speaking
in front of a room like this.
Not definitely afraid that I would give away
some piece of intellectual or business secret, right?
But it just takes a little bit of time to kind of know
what's the primary, what's not,
and be very comfortable with the difference.
But I mean, there is clear guidelines for what you can talk
about what you cannot.
I grew up being very bad at that.
Were we not the body of the people that you screw up?
Yeah, not really.
Not really.
Yeah.
I'm just kidding.
It's not me, it's not me too.
You mentioned points and time, or the question came up.
And you have subordinates, what are their points
and time problems?
For the most part, my group doesn't do that.
It's not necessarily mandated if they don't.
But my group, in particular, which I can talk very much
about, they're so passionate about the problems
that they are on, they're kind of the same way as I am.
They're working 100% on what they're working on,
because it's just, I had the luxury of having people
that are working on what they want to be working on,
and they did the most part of it,
so I'm hoping for that.
I also should point out that I have a team of links
as administrators, and I work in operations,
and there is a little bit of a difference between what
my guys work on, what the engineers operate,
and it's operating, and it's working on what they're not.
That they typically really do their point of percent time
the night of work.
And I got to spend so much, and it's kind of
one of the other projects that I'm trying to do.
I have this vision of people at working
at Google that kind of get an avalanche of information
dumped on them every day, with all of them.
With all of these neat, high-pressure people
that you're working with, the first of all, is that true?
And if it is, how do you manage that?
It is true, but it ends up being a good thing.
It's one of those, so I'm talking about working
on a small company, and I like being
the big vision of small pond.
And after a few years, I realized I'm not learning anything good,
and going to Google was breaking free of that.
So every day, I go to work, and literally,
I learn something new by the time I walk out of this one.
And just walking around with something, hallway conversations.
Everyone there is smarter than I am, but literally, I think.
So I have no choice but to learn new things.
I really mean that, but it's like a little university.
I've learned so much from what I'm looking for.
As far as managing the flow of information,
or the amount of information, I had very specific things
that I am focused on as a team.
And I have very clear objectives for what I need
to accomplish as a team, and everything else
is just sort of learning for pleasure.
So I think as a Physicons, and if there's
some new project that looks really cool,
I have the ability to go learn all about it,
or talk to engineers that work on,
and find all the documentation on it.
So it's, you kind of just pick and choose, honestly.
And there's, you could learn anything about anything,
and there's a lot of it.
And it's got a problem, though.
The head count was, and the last, you know,
quarterly earnings reported, but there's a lot of very
talented engineers looking at, and they're
working on lots of different things.
So if you have the ability to go learn it all around a bit,
it's sort of up to you.
Does Google have a specific need for programming
or do you speak Chinese or any other foreign languages?
Yes.
Everyone in one particular now, Google
has a very large push to be a global and global company
at the same time.
So one of the cool things that they do
is they don't always hire people and ship them back to them.
For example, if they find a group of talented engineers
and, you know, for example, South Carolina,
they will hire them on a spot and create an engineer
on the same thing for the country's money.
And there's an internationalization I think.
This is a big thing in Google and they don't want
to be, and I search engine with a big American slang
thought, they want to provide meaningful results
with global languages that jive with that culture.
If they want to make, they do a lot
of stuff that's a very high level of global interest
where they ought to get their feedback and interest
and they thought it was very, and I don't know why that was.
What's it about?
So one of the things that doesn't necessarily
any stronger than another.
That's a sort of, I mean, it's a lot.
Is it measuring Chinese?
Is it measuring Chinese, jive?
Yes.
Yes.
It's going to be quite a big benefit.
By the way, you know, you're trying to achieve the program.
You have to be in China, but I don't know
why she would be here with me.
So I missed the questions for you.
Yes, they're a pioneer in America, all over the world.
I just call it a t-shirt.
It has a little, it's getting like a Google Maps thing
that has a little flag or a Google Maps
where they're in the marine office in the whole world.
And they're like, community people.
I mean, it is, you say you can't tell us what you do.
You can't tell us, you can't tell us, you have a wide
technology, you think I can be a high, a testament team,
something that's not going to be.
No.
You tell us at what level you're monitoring,
you're monitoring every single fan and harbor
a spindle, or you just monitoring the machine itself.
Yeah, I can't tell if I'm not that sensitive to this.
Hi, they just killed me.
I want you to see.
I can't.
Good if you're beautiful.
I'm just kidding, you do.
Who?
I don't know if I stand up for everything.
I don't know if there's one that they use for everything,
but I want to say, it was the Apache license.
Yeah.
Yep.
So I might see people who are really Apache license.
I don't know if I stand up for everything.
I know that's exactly what I'm talking about.
There's a lot more that I don't know what I do for everyone.
Sorry.
Do you see who is the biggest victim of corporate murder
as well?
Hosting?
Nothing directly.
So one way to say it might be that my proxy is through Google
Apps.
And there's been a lot of movement on that product lately.
Did they not sell appliances, do they have any more?
I hope so, sir.
They're selling appliances.
They have a certain appliance.
I think the guy that makes me do those is still at me.
It is.
And if I'm interpreting your question correctly,
you're asking if they will have an appliance that
will be Google Apps 10 things.
Now, the appliance that will actually
be Google search technology within the enterprise.
Oh, that's essentially what Google search plans does.
What you can do with just the desktop search
actually surpasses some of the specs
that I see on some of those appliances.
So I don't have a couple of hundred gigs of data
has just been drilled at all.
Yeah.
OK, why don't you say, I mean, that's more
than they claim, but it's easy.
I think that they, and I work very far from that department,
but I think the big selling point for the search
appliance is that it's one central repository where
you can point at it on your company documentation.
And I'll just go to a problem.
My base is sending you, providing full search results.
We don't want to be only asking questions about it later,
but we have to.
Yeah, you can probably answer more than I could.
I've seen them.
I've touched them a little.
I don't even have a small business in the business.
And we have just not researched this, but.
But that's interesting to hear that.
And that's not the search surface is good.
I mean, that's great.
But to answer your question about actually hosting
corporate America, I think my proxy to sort of what
Google Apps is doing.
That's one of my favorite products Google does.
So if you're going to want to go to the U.S.
and go to the U.S. and buy one,
and that's what I'm going to do.
So those sorts of things are absent now.
I don't know if they're working towards that.
And it's not secreting that stuff down.
I mean, yeah, I know every time I know some of that stuff is
because I follow where I mentioned it, and I think we're
talking about it.
After years and years of arrest, it was spam-assessed.
I don't know why anybody does that.
It really really is.
For real.
I mean, so the Google Apps, and you put your domain on Google
Apps, I love that product.
So before I went to Google, I did consulting.
Small office consulting.
And essentially, what I did was taking a bunch of open source
tools and doing email hosting and calendaring
and trying to grow all these apps into one thing
for small business who couldn't afford large-scale IT stuff.
And really, that's what Google Apps does.
But they do it for huge enterprise.
On down to small business, which is my big part.
So now, you can have a restaurant and have email and
calendaring and everything for all your employees.
It's free.
It's important.
Since you're in the trenches, so to speak, because Google
have any sort of contingency plan in case
our Congress critters go for a tiered internet.
Good question.
What's the question?
It's neither for a tiered internet.
No, but that neutrality, essentially.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
Because Google have a sort of contingency in case
our Congress critters go for a tiered internet.
What's the thing about all that dark fiber out there
that Google has been rumored to about all of the things?
OK, so AT&T comes to Google and says, hey, if you want
to have Google load at the fastest quality
of all of our customers, you really need to pay us some money.
Yeah, speaking of our personal perspective and some
of my coworkers, I think we all recognize that
is a very bad thing.
As far as the company stands on it,
I couldn't tell you how I imagined it would concur.
As far as the contingency plan, I don't know what they're
going to do.
I think that Google has the ear of Congress.
And it seems like that's sort of like a talk to Congress
even at some point.
They're not that very talking, but I can't make it.
Sure.
If Google were to Google Yahoo, how many people
would every person in Google know about that?
That someone search for Yahoo.
I don't know.
Yes.
I actually answer some of the search courses myself.
It's a slow game.
I'm related.
Do you ever like to build more of like half a mouth
viewers shows the most recent searches?
And is that filtered?
Yes, and yes.
It's actually a serious question.
So I mean, we have analytics about volume
where searches are coming from.
As far as personalization of different searches
is it's all very sanitized.
We don't want to end up in the position
where we know who's searching for what.
And that's something that kind of takes very seriously.
So you couldn't know, but you don't go in search for it.
Oh, someone search for Yahoo.
We get along with Yahoo.
We play paintball stuff with them.
Who wins?
The simple district we like to use the cops,
I think, for web pages.
And it's everybody's asking me what's the upgrade?
This is upgrade, and I don't do that kind of thing.
Is there something on the board?
I don't know.
This is upgraded.
Is it?
It seems like there's nothing there.
It seems like they release something
where you could pay something for a lot more storage.
Yeah, that's what I thought.
Yeah.
But I don't know if it's an upgrade for storage
or a memory of the application.
Storage or application.
Sure, it's not going to be taken.
There's the cost of it there in a non-existent store.
It's the cost of web online.
I think it's kind of a cool product.
When will you have a good loss of running a spine?
Is it not good enough?
Why?
It's essentially running online.
What is it?
Cost of not so.
Yeah.
It's better to come search.
I don't know.
So real soon now.
It's like watching people ask me for a product that
might need to seek your question.
I don't know if your cards would say cute or bad.
What does this do for you?
I don't know if you know what's weird.
Right.
Sorry.
In George Law, you're online.
How do you pass the Google exam?
The interview?
Yeah.
School.
Studying.
This is why I did.
It's a good question.
It's one that I can answer to some extent.
What I did was I tried to be as tricky as I could.
And I went and I battled with some research papers.
I printed them out.
And I told you I'm low-tech, right?
You know, the paper, right?
I printed them all out.
I'm a good binder.
And I just attacked them with a highlighter.
And I started everything that I could.
And I started everything.
Yeah.
Like when you run?
The ones that stuck out in my mind were a Google file
system and not that I would need to know that for my job.
But I thought it would be cool to learn how the company works.
So part of my philosophy is, if you go to apply for a job,
you should at least do some due diligence
to figure out how they work.
But nothing else, it makes for an interesting interview.
That's like, well, I read the paper on GFS.
And I thought this could be done better.
Who's this guy think is?
But at least it's interesting.
So I mean, I just seriously answered the question.
I did a lot of that kind of stuff.
I knew generally what I needed to be good at.
I knew I needed to know when I excited.
I knew I needed to know TCPIP.
I went back and studied all my old Cisco books.
Thought that we used Cisco.
Thought that we don't.
But it all was built in sort of?
Yeah.
So I mean, I just, well, I had this cramped.
And to be honest, I prepared for anything and everything.
And that was really my process.
And I've got a lot of company.
Since Gmail storage keeps going up,
if you multiply that by all the Gmail accounts,
does that mean you have somebody on your team
who does nothing but add hard drives
on the network all day, every day, seven days a week.
I don't know.
How do you know we don't have a whole team of people doing it?
Is that a yes?
Probably.
Yeah, I mean, service demand is expanding.
Can you tell us the flammar going?
You tell us the dollar amount or amount
about all the capacity and discipline
of boys to get paid to a perfect company.
Perfect.
I mean, I love the sale.
My principles.
I can offer them.
What else?
How much corporate e-mail need you at the beginning?
A lot.
I just wrote, we're kind of internal, one blog thing.
But I just wrote, my own personal 10 tips and tricks
for dealing with mail at Google.
Because we just get rents, not so many.
We have a list for everything.
And I did tons of things.
CCTV and sent to me.
Yeah, that's what I was talking about.
Oh, OK.
Well, I can definitely speak to that.
So I have, I'm a big fan.
I don't want to sound like all corporate trendy,
but I'm a big fan of this.
Getting things done.
Love that.
I've read that book probably five times over.
Listen to the audio thing.
And it's only five good tricks.
We really do it well.
But.
These spoke of Google several times also.
Yeah.
They, they, they, they not themselves,
but one of the, one of the other guys.
David Hill.
David Hill.
David Hill.
Have you heard of this?
Oh, yeah.
Well, I'm saying.
He goes to not be a lot.
But some of his other guys came to where I am today.
And I was able to participate in the course.
I was actually after I started doing it for a while.
But I love that stuff.
And I kind of have my own ninja kung fu,
getting things done method for Gmail and labels.
And I have a little stuff label on it.
I have special rules for handling email flow.
And I am, I am the one person I never miss anything.
Anything I need to act on.
I got it.
And I am just a master.
Nothing slips through the neck.
People ask.
It was like a told person who asked me how I did it.
And I wrote a big long and precious kind of web-log thing.
You don't use a third party yet.
That would give.
And that was part of my little write-up was I hate those.
Because this way.
Is that what you wrote?
Is that a moment when you wrote a long interview?
Yeah.
I actually sanitized it and copied it to my public web-log.
And would you provide that address?
blog.eater.word.
Eater is my secret hacker.
EPR.
Yes.
What's your last name, kid?
Weird.
Is that a UVA card?
No.
Now you know as much about me as I don't like you.
Just Google if you flex hours.
So you don't have to push rush hour in Atlanta.
Yeah.
How are we going to web the 7?
Side.
Nice.
I live.
I got a 20 minute commute in Atlanta.
I'm a big tech football player.
So I know how it gets in Atlanta.
I just don't like tech football game.
Much less.
Morning.
It's a good service.
Side.
Yeah.
I'm a big tech football player.
So I know how it gets in Atlanta.
It's from the tech football game.
Much less.
Morning.
That's a good service.
Side.
I miss Triweek.
It's completely.
It's awesome.
Are you in someone's line?
Or Jordan?
Atlanta.
Okay.
The first one.
Who's in someone's line right now?
Who was no...
I mean, they're doing a testing of facility and stuff,
so there are some people that are already...
No.
Mm.
When you're more.
I noticed in my people's opinion,
that I've had a big hand in kale,
and, uh,
If you'd like to offer any wisdom or suggestions for growing up, please agree with me.
Hi.
Interesting question.
So, one thing that we really did, that was very fruitful, was the community wireless company,
which I don't know if it's out of vote now, pretty wireless, but that was a real fun direction every day.
So, we had only two groups and a couple of others with us.
I mean, on a regular or on a good night, we'd have maybe 20 people.
And we had a lot of people that were interested, or as a mailing list,
and a lot of people that were kind of indirectly involved.
But, as far as good meaning turned out, meaning this side would have been very unusual for us.
But the people for us.
Okay.
So, but we didn't have, you know, maybe a hundred people that were more or less at least keeping an eye on them.
So, one thing that we did was, we got involved with setting up free wireless, the downtown.
I don't think it was a big downtown area.
There's a lot of travel in the town.
It's free wireless downtown.
Is it really free?
Like somebody set it up as a community project?
Or provide less city to the city.
Okay.
Well, it's a y'all I love.
It is how you do it.
But it's a nice arrangement.
If you work downtown.
It has a pretty recent victory for us.
It works on Main Street.
Yeah.
I mean, it doesn't expand.
That's all we have.
That's all we have.
That's all we have to do.
I just wanted free wireless wireless.
Does anybody know how scalable this Iraqi stuff is?
I don't know.
It's just a little mesh network wireless devices.
I don't know.
I don't know yet.
The first being in Australia is a very...
And I've got a couple of them stuck up.
But I don't know how scalable it is.
The individually as a couple, they worked just fine.
Well, so to the point, I mean, the wireless project was fun.
But it was really a cancer question.
It was just sort of a way to bring people together and get them up on this project.
It's free laptop.
Free piece.
It's like you see.
Awesome.
We did that one Christmas.
I was involved with a technology association.
I just don't want to put them on the back of the room.
And I was chairman of the Affinity Outreach program.
And I also had all these Linux geeks ready to do something Linux-y.
And so kind of brought them together.
And we got a whole bunch of computers from businesses that were upgrading or whatever.
And we saw some Linux on them and gave them to the kind of four demo services.
But, I mean, things like, to me, that was so much more fruitful than trying to have a meeting
that people were going to show up to.
I mean, to me, it's a great knowledge of some of your pass notes.
They worked on it.
I'm going to go back and listen to some of the audio.
But it's so hard to get good speakers month after month after month after month.
And you don't do that.
Your tent starts to drop off, or it's hit or miss.
And you can ever bring a company before you leave it.
But if you could find kind of a common project to work on, then that's a really good thing.
So there's a side spec of the wireless thing.
So we set up, we had kind of this big knob.
It was in its 30, like, second floor of a bookshop.
Downtown had, you know, lights and everything.
That's what we made that like a network operation set.
And we got all this, all these freaking computers, we're talking like,
they're kind of on capture wheels.
We had a couple of tools of these 200s.
And we just set them all up to do different things.
You know, we had, like, one DNS box and a couple over the SD corner walls.
It was just a place where people could go and kind of play with different systems.
Is a local bombing or spam deck, spam deck, and bomb is getting worse?
Subjectively speaking, I think it's getting better.
Because I remember a while ago, I got my own website to the top of the index pretty easily.
And I haven't been able to do that personally.
And I worked for Google, so.
Obviously, that's a subjective answer.
It seems to me like that it's getting better.
I mean, it's a concern, right?
Because, you know, manipulating index obviously has a sense.
It's probably Google bombing, isn't it?
What is it?
Yeah.
That's one you get a specific keyword and kind of arbitrarily make a point
to somebody's website and make fun of them.
So I had this friend and he used to, he used to, he's a security kind of amateur security researcher guy.
And he would find exploits in different software.
But we know he didn't make fun of them because they were just, like, local, not rude exploits.
So if you search for useless exploits, exploits, they would go right to his website, right?
I thought it was hilarious.
But that's an example of Google bombing, someone or something.
But it's not hard to do that.
How they do it, I don't know.
That's what the genius in here is to work on the search index.
Someone on the Google website said that they were working on getting a Google talk on two links.
Have they already done that via the, you know, a Google talk?
30 internet without having to download anything?
Is that about the client that you download that interfaces with talk?
Yeah, that's the talk you can read.
The email yeah.
The internet.
Well, there's the Gmail and also the iGoogle thing.
And I think you can even embed that somewhere else.
You can use JavaScript as one.
Yeah.
Is there not a G-tom?
I don't know for the honest, because I don't use it.
So everything that I do is as chat goes with Google is the embedded Gmail flash widget.
That's what I use.
So, I mean, I get, it was a third or fourth time I've done this talk and I get to ask all kinds of questions about Google stuff that I have no idea.
It's just because, I don't know, I'm too busy working on something else. I never really paid attention to it.
I know, I wish I knew. I feel like I have to represent all of Google in the target, so it's a good point.
I haven't seen this. I haven't looked at your service right along. I see resistances, you come.
Yes, that a good question.
No, but I thought it was cool to wear a good cloth.
It will be assimilated. Yeah, working for Google is like being assimilated, but it's not that bad.
It's not having inwards.
No one's that doing the neck, I swear.
Did I get to your question about kind of positive ways of revenues?
I don't know if my group was a wild successor or not.
In my experience, it was really great to have some kind of project, like you told me to work it on.
It's so hard to get a realistic market share and analysis for Linux.
But I think the paid bag would be able to provide that kind of number to be somebody like Google.
Do you have my rough estimate of the worldwide market share for Linux?
Because I know people like IDC say, well, yeah, here's the market share.
If you count people like Dell who are selling servers, we don't count anybody who downloads and installs it,
and much less if they install at times.
I would think that the best way would be to look at browser strength.
Pretty good sample set, right?
So I did it available within Google probably.
I don't know. For all I know, I'll just get someone.
I wouldn't be shocked.
So what's in math and who has been her friend?
Yes, and not the internet, find out.
That's probably what an internet does.
Maybe that would be my 20% project and mapping the whole internet.
All right, now we're going to show you the clusters that Google has available.
Could you do that in just your 40% time when we can help you?
That's part of Googlebot through, you know, we can.
Anyone else?
Let's see the next one.
What's the question you have in an app?
The previous time.
It's self-right.
We have an app.
I got grilled and devoid.
They ask me all kinds of stuff.
They wake up the calls on why SMTP sucks and why Google could be doing stuff to change it.
I got to know how this is administrative.
That's not.
That's the one I picked out online.
One thing I wish Google would do again is Google would do a VPN for a while.
They dropped it.
I mean, they were allowing you to have a VPN connection sale, a wireless account.
And it was acting for a while and then it died.
A little blind to install it here.
And I assume it had something to do with the fact that they were rolling out wireless in places of time.
That died the little VPN.
I don't think I've heard that.
Pickle something at the back of my brain.
A little security VPN software download.
Yeah, that was, I think it was a pilot thing they had going through.
They were rolling out.
They've been to a home office, whatever.
I think everybody in the whole area has three wireless or something.
All of Mountain View right now.
There's something on the table to do all of San Francisco, but I'm not sure if that actually happened or not.
I don't think everybody's secure.
I didn't even go over it up, you know.
That's why it's a wireless app.
I don't know what happened.
Yeah, I read it for a while.
I thought you were pretty neat, but I'm not equipped.
Where else is San Francisco?
They're looking at doing a mesh technology where they have a company.
I think, briefly, they're going across the bank desk.
They're looking at using mesh technology.
Everybody gets a little bit of advice in the district.
That's what Marathi is.
Well, that's what Marathi is.
It came out of the RIT project called Root Man.
It was the guy who worked Marathi with Root Man.
And it's a mesh network.
I've dealt with a research on Active Work Talk.
I'm going to bring up OPC.
So they say that it's a kind of for broadband.
I don't know where.
But as they have one T1, certain tire, they were there.
I think it'll serve a 10 Marathi environment.
So we're trying to build in Columbus.
Was that sort of thing?
Oh, OK.
So, I mean, we just used the RIT-54G's.
Yeah.
We tried a number of different experiments to wear a T.
Or something.
Yeah, great little mesh.
It doesn't do mesh very well on rocks, though.
I don't think it's supposed to be a variety thing.
That's pretty well done.
The Marathi is real seamless.
I mean, you know, for a small number, do you have any deployed?
No.
And I was trying.
David's in the wild, if you want to ask questions,
excuse me, I asked.
But if you are giving it, I've got a project
that people already know they really want to set up.
So, you know, make bright yellow light for the device of the devil.
And we'll talk about it if you want to talk about it.
How about that?
Cool.
Well, I hope you guys don't want to waste another decade
for a windmax to finally be available.
Yeah.
We're hoping Google will help out with that.
Is it something I don't think it hurts?
It's funny.
You said that.
I mean, so we're doing that wireless thing in Columbus.
And, you know, we're trying to get the city dispenser
and that sort of thing.
And everybody's like, I don't know.
Why am I going to be here next year?
I know it's not.
Even if it was, it'll take five years for everybody to get a card.
And here we are.
Five years later.
It's still not really available, so.
Do you know anything about the side of things?
If you're talking about good planes,
you should be mentioning topology and a neighborhood.
Will it come to the area?
Is that something that Google...
Is that something along there?
There are ones that they're interested in that kind of activity?
I think that the only tangible example of that right now
is that the LPC right there.
The Google has been...
I'm not sure how involved Google has been.
It's at least funding for grants or something, you know, by one deadline.
But that essentially really does what we're talking about.
There's been some issues.
That's a client level.
Yes.
I think that's kind of the cool thing.
As far as, you know, more granularity on that.
Vincent's really subject to the wireless.
Are you familiar with the fact that the South Carolina is trying to promote things?
Is that why you're calling me out here?
Yeah.
It's a one-man network, basically.
It's called the EBS, which stands for Educational Monks.
It's the most extremely advanced one.
Yeah, well...
No, one sign on your own.
But basically they've got...
They've got airways that are getting freed up from the 2009 Twitter digital.
And FCC, MCC, has to have a plan in place.
Some of the users are losing, basically.
And so they're trying to build a consortium to help private to get this to happen.
Basically, if it were to go through, they'd have a state-wide...
Why mask them?
Interesting.
Yeah.
Pretty interesting.
I do, you know.
I don't think we're worried about that.
Presumably, it would be run by the state.
There was no way to get...
They're trying to get private enterprise.
They are going to take it over.
What's the push report?
So on.
How so is the danger?
You know, it's both bad things like that.
Great.
It's free.
But it's also run by the government.
It's free.
It doesn't work.
It's not meant to govern employees here.
It's not your fault.
You're right.
But all your fault.
But now I have not heard that.
I'm just going to continue.
It's just for a minute because...
I was down to it your way.
Last week, I got a technology around to go into discussion.
It's in San T.
There's a big problem, actually.
A lot of these rural areas that suck you a lot.
They don't really have broadband.
That's kind of chicken and egg question.
Perhaps not really an infrastructure there.
Is it your broadband provider?
You're saying that?
I'm not doing that because there's nobody out there releasing computers, you know.
And everybody outside of Greenville is in Greenville today.
Hey, you guys got everything.
We got nothing.
It's kind of a problem where these areas don't have sufficient infrastructure.
And I can ask you about this later.
But it's kind of like 20% price and stuff.
That's not your area yet.
Are you going to be in San T.
Are you going to be in that?
At least once in a while.
Okay.
But I know for a fact, there's a bunch of areas out there that have very little infrastructure.
They're probably going to provide some peaks that will come and help them.
So I'm actually trying to get that OPC started kind of down in that area.
I'm good.
I can talk to them out later.
But I've got some people out there who were looking for some basic Linux skills
in kind of, you know, community center started with Linux.
Yeah.
That's all.
Yeah.
So I'll check the next one.
I'm having quite a nose about infrastructure.
We're going to talk about this, you know, in the industry for years.
Right.
Now we, how do we deliver, you know, service to these sorts of areas?
And it's really kind of shocking to see that no one's come up with a great solution.
Well, the seven of them are bigger.
It's the problem.
Right.
If you look at the, from the side of the, the communities, they're all waiting for somebody to do something
and then broadband side of it is all waiting for somebody to do something.
It's like, well, you're not really ready for us to do that.
Yeah.
How are we getting it ready?
You don't, you know, so it's kind of difficult.
It does provide a neat opportunity for kind of community organizations to go out and just do it at home.
We've got some great melodic, funerial efforts that people have done in remote areas like that
that should not keep waiting across the write-ups on.
A lot of them, once they've done the groundwork, then somebody comes in and sort of takes it over
and they have broadband.
Maybe all they want to do in the first place.
What now?
There are a lot of efforts around where people are using, you know, just regular Wi-Fi,
but with directional beam metadise and that sort of thing, to service pretty large areas.
Yeah, yeah.
And there's a lot of that has happened.
And even telephone networks and so on that people have put in.
A lot of times, once they've sort of done the statework, then some commercial outfit will come in
and sort of take it over or actually do their own thing, which is a big deal.
Yeah, which is sometimes it's on us.
It's sometimes it's on socials like us in the proof of concept for it.
That's fine.
The accomplishes the end goal, so be it.
And that's what we wanted to do, kind of in Columbus.
The city didn't want to do it.
And we're just going to do it with 10 cans.
Yeah.
In real cubes.
Yeah.
We could take you to some of this down the road here, somewhere like in a ring where,
like the phone lines were probably laid in person by Alexander Renville and Jill.
Yeah.
Cool.
What else?
Sir.
Are you trying to do anything to use less conventional means of game energy like fossil fuels?
Like you have like solar panels all over your buildings or whatever?
Yes.
We produce 1.6 megawatts for the mountain view campus.
Renewable energy is kind of a big thing with Google, especially the batteries.
Really the solar, really into the plug-in hybrids, that sort of thing.
If I had a highway, we'd build fusion reactors everywhere.
I don't know how many people saw that the started to talk.
Did you react?
Well, there was a talk by a doctor who started a diary recently.
And he had an interest to talk at Google, actually, about his...
He's been working on fusion energy.
He worked with the Department of Energy for, you know, a number of decades.
And he had these great proof of concept reactors.
And he said that his research supports the position that, really right now,
it's an engineering problem.
He's got the physics proving.
And he made it, you know, X number of million dollars that we could go to the next proof of concept.
And, you know, nobody, part of the second picked him up, but he made it.
So it's, once again, everything all is new again, right?
So it's, you know, it's like Arbonette.
You know, the military is going to fund cheap-free energy.
But I would have fusion reactors.
Right.
Yeah.
So, two hundred million dollars fusion reactor with the Sky Bank.
And he died when he has a group of them.
It's just that he worked on the team.
So it does a little sand-bed reactors seem to be, you know, pretty easy to put together.
It's easy to get online and extremely safe and sort of start up and walk away from them.
Never go back and look at them.
They're still not going to melt down, you know.
When it comes to renewable energy, I think that that's...
It leads away.
Now, speaking of behalf of Ken, not Google, I think that that's a really interesting direction of research.
If I were a science fiction writer, I would write books about fusion power being everywhere.
You know, Bissart was the physicist who coined the Bissart Rangin,
which actually figured it into a lot of science fiction.
So you can have this idea of the space rangin that would collect hydrogen and create a fusion reaction in power's spacecraft.
And it was actually fairly feasible.
Very interesting, man, listen to it.
It's a shame that he died.
One of those people that we've so passionately in his work can take very complex physics theory
and describe it in a way that's exciting for people who don't know anything about physics.
We've lost it.
It's very important.
Just so, or there are a few of them will we...?
Are there some Google sun efforts?
Yeah.
So there was a recent announcement about the funky acronym.
It's like renewable energy, less than coal project.
And I think the purpose of it is to direct more money and research in all directions for finding things that are cheaper than coal.
The one tangible project I recall is the plug-in hybrid project that they don't have a lot of money to do.
And I know the batteries are very solar-colored.
That's how it gets light.
The solar panel on every single building.
Not the theater panel.
But yeah, there's a lot of interest in that.
So did you just know solar?
Did you know?
Additionally now?
No, no.
The solar right now.
I don't know what they're best getting.
Exactly.
I think part of the project is for it to explore more things like that.
It's very good at it.
So start making energy production for all the things.
Wouldn't it be cool?
Is it possible?
Sometimes Google now or the other big power?
Yeah.
Cool energy incorporated.
Very good.
I just found you with some of the things that are also going on.
Is that well?
I can't speak for a data set.
I can't speak.
Should people?
I'm not supposed to talk about data set.
Have you ever been on the party jet?
No.
You know what I mean?
I got to take food.
The company made it.
What do you want?
Which bar are you going to take to?
I love when you had that set.
It's my third talk to the lug and they always end up with what party we're going to see?
Yes.
I don't know.
You tell me...
Jobs to contour.
It was a pleasure talking to you folks.
You're on a lot of questions.
Thank you for listening to Haftler Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net.
She'll head on over to C-A-R-O dot N-E-T for all of her TV.
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
