Episode: 300
Title: HPR0300: Big 300
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0300/hpr0300.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 15:54:04

---

🎶
Hey, hacker public radio. Welcome to number 300. It's a mighty fun number. Yeah, it's
a 3 and a couple of zeros. Awesome. Yeah, it started to do a whole 300 different languages.
Which is 300. These is HDR. No, no, no. So, as you haven't come up now, this is Morielin.
And I like to do shows about, right recently, it's about electronics and microcontrollers.
I'm a big fan of technology, so usually kind of do something about that. But I always like to put my own twist on it and do it.
And obviously a fun way. Why did I want to do an HPR show? For me, it was all about giving back the whole reason that I'm even
this computer literate and into technology and Linux. And that kind of thing is because of the community.
Because I had a question and was smart enough to look on the internet and be able to find other people that had had the same problem
shared their experience, eventually stumbled into forums and then podcasts. And before I knew it, I was learning a large
amount of information that was insanely helpful not only to me, but to the people that I could help with other problems based on the knowledge
of that learning. And it was all from random people on the internet. So for me, there was a big drive in wanting to be able to
give back to this random, a lot of people. And I knew that more likely I wouldn't be able to give back to the people that initially
gave back to me because they, wow, they were so much smarter than me and obviously because they were the ones who had educated me.
So it was either a educate people that are, you know, needing to be educated or be find different topics that the people who
educated me don't know anything about and meet somewhere in the middle.
Always I try to do something a little entertaining. So that way even if you know the subject or if you don't know the subject,
whether you care or you don't care, there's always a little bit of entertainment involved in the show.
That's one thing that I've always tried to shoot for and I hope it comes through.
The hacker public radio is just an amazing thing for me, just the fact that it's already been here for 300 episodes.
And that means that there's 300 episodes that have been recorded by just random people who wanted to sit down in front of the microphone and give it a shout.
So that, that's awesome. So thank you. Thank you HVR also with like to acknowledge that yes, this is 300 episodes of HVR.
But there was a show before this call today with a techie and you know that went to 300 episodes as well.
So this is almost like 600 episodes. This is really amazing.
So thanks to everybody who is involved and I hope to see you at the next 300 in HVR.
Hello, this is Dave Yates and in addition to the occasional monthly or so HVR episodes I do,
I have a podcast, the lot of links links.com and it's user podcast. And I occasionally do the update.
I only use users group podcast or the audio record audio and make it available to podcast.
And why do I, why did I want to do an HPR show? Actually I didn't. I was sort of called on the carpet.
I was interviewing droops and stank dog about a month or so before Hacker Put It Radio took to the to the inner tubes
and that they were announcing the plans for Hacker Put It Radio. And they, as I was wrapping up the interview for my podcast,
they sort of called me on the carpet or asked me, asked me or told me one day to speak to me to contribute.
And I never thought myself in the same caliber as those guys or any of the host of HPR.
So I didn't know that about having anything to contribute or not.
So I sort of got called out publicly and that's the reason I did it.
And the next thing I know, Enigma's got me down on a monthly schedule.
So that's how it came to happen, I'm not sure why.
Have I learned anything? I learned about NCB files, I think, from DeepGeek, maybe.
I can't remember who the host was. The funniest show moment.
None kind of my mind, I'll stop my hair, but I think the this old hack episodes were always good.
HPR Hero, I would say that would be caught too. I enjoy the content he provides.
And he's a hard working contributor.
The craziest HPR host has to be Miguel and they'll take Mystic.
And do I have any shows planned for the future? I plan on continuing to contribute, but I never have anything planned.
And anything cool to brag about.
Not really. The South East Linux Fast is happening slowly June 13th, 2009 in Clemson, South Carolina.
The South East Linux Fast.org. And I just want to wish the Hacker Public Radio community happy 300th episode.
Hey, it's DeepGeek. I've been asked why I think Hacker Public Radio is so important.
And the reason I think Hacker Public Radio is so important is because to have a knowledge of hacking and deep knowledge of computers is basically a minority interest.
And yet still an interest that people are passionate about when they have that interest.
And it requires you to be able to reach out on a national and international basis to find like-minded people who want to share information
on these very deep topics and this beautiful intellectual passion, which is being about the computer technology.
And if it wasn't for Hacker Public Radio, we wouldn't be able to reach out to each other over such great distances.
It's truly an international community and an international community that I'm intensely proud to be a part of.
Happy 300th episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Well, the first question that I've got here is what's your name and what's your show and what's it about?
Well, my name is Aaron Phunnen, aka Phinex. I do Phinex or Student Hacker's Guide to Linux.
It's basically about things that you can do Linux, like wall driving or looking at rainbow tables.
I'm an ethical hacking student, I'm a tea university, dandy, hence Phinex or Student Hacker's Guide.
The next question is, why do you want to do a HPR show?
I like to do HPR because it gives me a chance to work on projects for what I can see as a pretty legit and a reason.
I like doing security stuff, I find some of the stuff that's really interesting and amazing and I suppose I kind of like sharing that excitement about.
The next question that I've got here is, have you learnt anything while doing HPR loads that I know nothing about sound production?
Or does it always go wrong when you need it the most and then Nickmas are pretty forgiving, dude.
The next question I've got here is, who's your HPR hero?
That's pretty easy. Nickmas can fall in clad to, and the singing man himself, Mr Chad Wallenberg.
But all seriousness here, I think anyone that takes the time out to do a HPR show deserves my respect.
So tongue in cheek, they're all really heroes.
The next one is, who's the craziest HPR host?
I did two honest VL love, Chad Wallenberg and the Linux songs again.
And well, Jeff just put them out on the HPR, I'm a big Linux basement fan and listen to him over there.
I'm still wondering why he's not put up my theme tune, yeah.
Come on Chad, we're a super phoenix dude.
The next question I've got here is, why do I think that HPR is important?
I think it's really important that we basically have a medium out there that we,
that people can produce content, content that they want.
And I tend to think if you're interested in something, someone out there on internet land will be interested in as well.
Plus, you know, who, why wouldn't you want to do a show if I had a public radio?
The next question is, what shows do I have planned for the future?
I have a couple planned with a few co-hosts and trying to get some of the ethical hacking and the Linux society dudes doing shows.
I'm also trying to recording the new segment bit, say once a fortnight, but it's still early and it's still early days yet.
So we'll see how that works out.
The next question I've got is, anything cool that you want to brag about?
Well, well, of course, my beautiful little girl, Eilo's born just under a month ago.
Thanks, Tick, for all of sleep this night. That's helped loads.
I'd like to do the usual brag about the Linux society, which I'm a member of.
We can be found at www.theLinux society.org.uk.
So to everyone, I put all my show notes and everything like that up there and have a blog up there.
And so there lots of other people like stuff as well as pretty interesting place.
So, you know, plus if anyone has any requests for anything that'd like me to do on the Phoenix Institute and have this guy to Linux, then please drop us a line.
The next question is, what's your HR birthday message to the listeners?
Well, just, I hope you guys have enjoyed it also far.
And here's to another 300, I suppose. Happy birthday, HPR.
Okay, number one, what's your name and what shows and what is it about you do?
Well, my name is Lost in Bronx and so far I've done a show about MeadNanoRymo.org and I have one coming up about Recession Era Multimedia.
And what is it about you do? I don't know what that means.
Number two, why did you want to do a hyper public radio show? I don't know, I guess I'm a ham.
Number three, optional. Have you learned anything new while it's doing the whole HPR thing?
I've learned a little bit about Audacity. I've also learned I need to buy a new mic sometimes.
Number four, optional. What's the funniest show moment or memory from the past 300 shows?
I remember the time in Nigma. He put my episode up with someone else's name on it.
Yeah, that was great.
Number five, optional. Who's your HPR hero as in whose episodes do I like the best? That'd be Clat 2's.
But who's the most admirable? That'd be Uber Chick. First off, I can't code my way out of a wet paper bag.
And secondly, all things considered, I seriously doubt I'd be able to philosophize where I in her place.
So she rocks more than me and more than you. Number six, optional. Who's the craziest HPR host?
I don't even know what that means. Number seven, why do you think HPR is important?
Well, it keeps me off the streets at night, it got me off the pipe, and it brought me to Jesus.
Number eight, optional. What shows do you have planned for the future?
I have one in the works right now comparing patio books to other kinds of dramatic audio media.
And I'm hoping it'll be better than that sound. Number nine, optional. Anything cool you want to brag about?
Uh, no. Number ten, what's your HPR birthday message to listeners?
Happy 300 hacker public radio? Didn't know you had it in you.
I'm not so sure. Watch me. Watch me. Watch me. Start the revolution off. Watch me.
Hi, guys. This is one of your twenty-one. Um, why did I?
And I was the host of the, I was the host of the gale interview.
And the host of the, um, show review, um, take a little while back.
Um, I'm mostly the, um, co-web site manager.
You're not underground unless you're gonna. Why did I want to?
Oh, I would, I would invite it. I would invite it.
I would invite it. You want to be the do-on-show?
I would be. I would be. I would be the gig. So what would that be?
Kind of like something that one of those. Um, I think HPR is important.
Um, for one thing, maybe, um, have a neat topic, um, the broad audience.
It might not otherwise. You know, it might not otherwise be aware of for one thing.
And, um, are you gonna be down with me or what?
For the, um, birthday message to lift first. Um, if thank you for the thing,
and I hope that we can continue to all of us continue to, uh, continue to,
to do the show that is, uh, entertaining and worthwhile and stuff.
All that good stuff. Yeah.
Thank you, everybody.
All right, audio.
All right.
Okay, this is Soak and I've got a few questions, one, sir.
What's your name and what shows and what is it about? What have you done?
Well, I was born in Bristol, England, but now reside near Breen in the Manor.
I don't really like to give up my real name. I'm not against it, but I prefer to keep them separate,
so the website based on my own surname, for personal things,
and my Zoke persona, for the tech-easy things,
but where my family can look at, just my own website.
And you guys can look at the Zoke rule,
and you don't have to listen to me drawing on about things happening in my life.
I'm also really bad at coming up with names and art,
but I'm a diamond doesn't by picking an ear or something similar.
So I used a random name-generator, which came with the Zoke Sorrent,
which has shortened the Zoke,
at least the place to let you put four carrots in, doesn't it?
I've done a bunch of shows on different things,
from Doctor Who to a few Windows-based ones,
system terminals, and try to wipe out a Windows system, for example.
It's my current series on Python programming.
Why did you want to do an HPR show?
Well, I don't know. I think originally I just wanted to help an egg around,
but then I realised wouldn't know if I got myself into it.
But I did get some really, really good feedback,
and decided to continue and help people out
and try and pass on some of the things I've found out.
Have you learnt anything new whilst doing whole HPR thing?
Well, I've learnt a bunch about doing podcasts,
and I also learnt, and I'm definitely not the most polished out there,
and need to edit my shows way too much.
Just listen to me live to see how different I am.
I do work better from the script,
if I try and add a little bit too much,
I get too many, I mess words up,
so, always better from the script.
Also, with the Python series that I'm doing,
I'm actually learning Python whilst I'm doing it,
which is something I could do or may,
but as I mentioned on the series,
I do so much better if you're having a reason to do it.
What's the funniest show or moment of memory from past 300 shows?
Well, there was that Doctor Who episode that,
oh wait, you probably don't mean my shows too,
now I'm just kidding.
I think the funny show and moment of memory actually,
for me, was actually your own golfers' critical hour episode,
although it wasn't just from the episode,
I did actually speak to him and I'll see,
and he said that Steve Gibson is hosting the episode,
actually somewhere on his server,
so I think that's quite brilliant.
Who is your HPR hero?
I don't know, that's a tough question.
I mean, we could say Klaatu,
if I haven't done like a thousand more episodes any other worlds.
There is also Dave Hates,
for being just about the most unlikely host for a show.
I mean, he makes Phillyman Pills,
or the Vatamin Pills, as he would say.
Not that I have anything against that,
I mean, everyone's gonna make a living,
but if you pick someone you've got the weird geeky guy,
or kind of makes pills for a living,
you don't really expect that,
but that's cool,
and Dave is really cool about it for that.
But I think I may actually have to go over to,
for I say to talk about programming as an art,
making me feel like I'm not crazy,
because I, too, think programming can be an art.
There was one bit of code I saw,
which was to handle a post-free scene,
in sequel tapes,
and take it up to an including,
the post-free, and then,
from the post-free onwards,
and I didn't say,
I know that's wrong,
you're doubling that you need to take either up to,
but not including the post-free,
and then, the post-free onwards,
or up to an including the post-free,
and then, after,
but you don't want to double it,
and then I realized that, of course,
is what they wanted to do,
because you need to actually double it,
and I just thought that was a beautifully simple way
of doing it.
Who's the craziest article host?
Hmm.
I think I might have to go for Clark II for this one,
for having done more accessing anyone else,
and about eight other podcasts as well,
and he's got blue hair,
and podcasts have been out of space.
What do you think age power is important?
I could go for a while about this,
so I'll try and keep it short.
I think age power is important for so many reasons.
It gives anyone the chance to record something,
and not actually have to worry about having to have
their own podcast,
and doing an episode a week,
or a month, or anything like that.
You can record a few episodes,
and just upload them,
they'll put them in wherever,
but you can go on to the monthly rotation,
and then you're meant to do one a month,
but even then, you don't have to take months off,
so I think that's really cool.
I think it also gives people a chance to learn
something weird,
but cool,
like the Bruno Ren beer episode.
So I think it's really good
that the last few people share their knowledge
about anything with anyone,
and the more knowledge out there is always a good thing.
If you look up,
it takes ships.
The first thing they do is limit knowledge
that the people have.
To control the people,
some more knowledge is always a good thing.
What shows do you have planned for the future?
Well, short term,
I'm just going to be continuing
on my Python programming series.
Well,
surely that might take me a while,
so that might not be too short term.
Afterwards, I'm not so sure,
I've got a few ideas,
I think I'll complete those,
so I don't really want to say anything
to turn myself down.
Anything cool that you want to brag about?
I'm not actually that egotistical
that I have to hear,
stuff about me all the time,
so I don't really want to
sit and brag about anything here.
Alright, I guess something like
I went out shooting with my father
and loyal yesterday,
we shot a bunch of things up,
and he let me use his cold-follows.
That's a good sign.
What's your HPR birthday message to listen to?
Well,
aside from a happy birthday,
I'd say just keep listening.
This year for present,
HPR would like more episodes
for new people.
Where'd you listen to HPR and be honest?
On my laptop,
it's really boring, I know.
I don't own a cell phone.
I don't own an 810 or anything
called like that.
Why'd you like HPR?
I like the fact that you don't really know
what the next episode is going to be about,
all these different people,
all these different topics,
all these different styles of podcasting and so on.
It's brilliant.
You just have this HPR episode
that turns off each day,
and it could be about
literally anything.
It could be an episode of
proof-rate beer,
random music,
whatever.
Well, that's it.
Onto the next person.
The capital is begging please.
Watch me fuck this whole system up.
Are you going to be down with me or what?
Watch me start a revolution off.
Watch me.
Wake up your bum.
Smoking up in car.
Watch me rush the cops with a bed.
And I am a volatile.
Watch me.
Watch me.
There's time to tear the system down.
I already whined it,
because you want to keep your crown.
Change is coming near,
no more fear,
take back these countries,
these cities,
and these towns.
Demand equalit for women.
And then the classic racism justice.
What's your name?
What shows if you're done?
What are they about?
Then it's quite too.
Then a couple shows.
Mostly a video topic.
Some are networking.
And I think just some other random stuff.
Why did I want to do an HDR show?
I wanted to do an HDR show,
because I knew it was a community-based effort.
And these community projects don't really work.
Unless all the community members actually participate.
So I thought I should.
I knew I'd be listening to the show,
so I thought I should contribute.
If I learn anything new,
whilst doing HDR.
Of course, every time I listen to an episode,
I learn something new.
And every time I do an episode,
I'm not there learning something new,
or really, really reinforcing something
that I've been learning anyway.
Funniest show or moment from the past 300 episodes.
It's really hard to pinpoint.
A lot of the hosts are really funny.
And they're really,
as I said,
they're not doing something funny.
It's just the way they choose to express something.
So there's a lot of funny moments, I think.
Who's my HDR hero?
I guess that would have to be a Nigma,
because he keeps making sure that episodes
are posted every day.
Thank you, Nigma.
We love you.
Who's the craziest HDR host?
That would be Phyzone,
PHI, Zio, and E.
It's a month on the contributor.
Let's use the wackiest of all.
Why do I think HDR is important?
HDR is important because it's a community project.
And I don't believe in the consumer model,
where one distinct group creates all this stuff.
And another distinct group comes along and consumes it.
I think it's a lot more interactive,
a lot more positive for everyone.
A lot more fulfilling for everyone.
If everyone's chipping in,
everyone's creating something,
just like the Linux operating system,
where they're all a part of building it,
as well as using it.
So that's important.
What's my HDR birthday message to listeners?
I don't know.
You've listened well.
Keep listening.
And I just contribute if you have anything to contribute.
And I'm happy for the HDR.
We need way more passion.
And better leads.
The ones we got a old passion.
And green.
Not allusion in the streets.
Solutions is what we seek.
Collusion with the righteous ones.
It's an illusion that we won't need a gun.
We'll use anything we can find to fight this.
We're on a mission to write this.
On a path of righteousness.
You're not on the ground unless you're free.
You'll never be dead.
You're not on the ground unless you're free.
You'll never be down till you get politically see.
Work's trapped in time.
Every syllable written to oppose capitalism and its line.
Meritocracy is a joke to me.
No equality for women, people of color,
and the children of poverty.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Start a revolution off.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Watch me.
Bring a corrupt system to its knees.
Watch me make the capitalist beg and plead.
Watch me.
Fuck this whole system up.
Are you going to be down with me or what?
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net.
She'll head on over to C-A-R-O dot N-E-C for all of her communities.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
