Episode: 261
Title: HPR0261: Force Unleashed
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0261/hpr0261.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 14:58:27

---

Let's start with ...
Welcome to another episode of HBR, I'm your host Enigma and today I will be giving something
a little bit different, I will be doing a game review.
The game that I'm going to review today for you guys is The For Sun Leashed and the platform
I played on was The Wii.
The reason that I got the game and the reason that every Star Wars nerd would get the game
is the fact that you, with the Wii controller, can swing a lightsaber and do a force push
against your target and do force choke and such things.
Yes, you can call me a Star Wars nerd now.
The gameplay actually wasn't that bad.
I had mixed feelings about it.
I do realize that most Star Wars games in the last few years have sucked royally.
But I thought I'd give it a shot.
I have this new Wii console in my as well.
Get a game that uses the full features of the Wii.
One thing I was disappointed in and when I opened it the first night, I began my girlfriend
decided to check out the multiplayer and it's a little lacking.
First off, you have to play the entire game to open up all the characters, which is crap.
But even with all the characters open, it's only an arena-type game, like Ala, a super
smart, a super smash brother's melee with just the arena beat each other up.
There's no co-op mode or anything.
So I thought that was lacking, but it's fun nonetheless to hack your opponent up into
little pieces and force choke them and stuff like that.
Other than that, the single player is actually pretty good.
I was addicted to it there for a couple of weeks.
I think I did it in like two and a half weeks or something like that.
But the single player, just to give a little background on a single player, you're a
Darth Vader secret apprentice and you start the game off, not giving out too many spoilers.
But you start the game off, hunting down Jedi Masters on a few different worlds and you
do that for a little while and then there's a plot twist, which I'm not going to tell
you.
However, it's fairly, fairly good story line.
I did enjoy it and the only thing the ending is a little anti-climatic, but you kind of
expected it if your Star Wars fan know the story of how there's only supposed to be
two Sith and any one time, but anyway, I digress.
I just don't want to give out that I'm a big Star Wars nerd, but anyway.
So going back to the game, the only thing that I, another thing I didn't like was the
fact that you have to push the controller, like there's sections of the game where you
just go in and fight a boss, and this can be either like a big, you know, mechanical
thing like an ATST or a Jedi or some other type of boss character.
You have to, for the finishing move, you have to move your we-mote into the direction
that it says, kind of like a, kind of, I don't even know what it's like, but anyway,
you've got to move the we-mote in the direction of which direction it's pointing to.
There's a green arrow on the screen, and you either, you know, point at left, point
right, point up, and you also have to do this with a nunchuck in certain, certain boss
scenes.
And you have to go back and forth between the we-mote and the nunchuck moving it in different
directions.
The we-mote wasn't so bad doing that too, however, the nunchuck always gave me problems.
I couldn't get it in the right direction at the right time, and you've got to do it in
a certain sequence, and before, you know, your time runs out, or you have to do it over
again, it's kind of like, it reminds me of a Simon Says game where you have to keep
trying until the air is out, but anyway.
That got difficult, especially when it was fast, like if, toward the end, it gets faster
and faster as you progress through the levels, and it seemed to almost be impossible in certain
areas.
Like, I had to spin the freaking we-mote around in a circle to get it in the right direction,
and it was just by chance I got it correct.
So that was a little difficult to get grasped, and I still haven't grasped it entirely.
And a lot of the scenes, like if you get in a saver lock, or if you get into, there's
scenes where you shoot force lightning out of your hands, and the other target shoots
the same, and then you have to turn the nunchuck in a certain way to break the, the, the
light or the force lightning.
It gets a little difficult in the higher scenes, but you know, it's, it's a challenge, and
I didn't enjoy the game, however, I would give it, you know, four out of five stars if
I was going to five star system, and it's a must play for any Star Wars fan.
I would have liked to see a better multiplayer, and you know, maybe an online thing.
There's a new one coming out.
I think it's actually out in November with the Clone Wars lightsaber tools.
So if I get a hand, if I get that one, I will do another episode.
And the reason I did a game review today is it's getting close to season two, and I want
to do some more things, a little bit different than I did for season one.
So I'm going to open up game reviews as one of the series.
So if anybody has a cool game that they've tried, or you know, that they want to let
everyone know about, please send it in.
I'm always looking for backup episodes, even if you don't want to be on the monthly
rotation.
And I have a few surprises and a few changes for season two that I'll be announcing.
They'll be a, on January 1st, they'll be the first episode of season two, and it will
be, I'll have a special guest, and I was supposed to have two, but one canceled on me.
So you guys will just have to live with one special guest.
Someone you probably haven't heard from on the show, he's new to the scene, relatively
new to the scene.
So check out that, it'll be on Thursday, I think that's the first.
And there'll be a couple of new faces around the HPR scene, start next season.
So look out for that, and check out the, if you haven't already listened to it, the
train wreck of a, of a Christmas special that we did on Christmas Eve, that was a lot
of fun.
Too bad we didn't get a stream in, sorry about that guys.
I, I fail, and you can, you can send all your hate mail to Klaatu, he was, he dropped
the ball in the hat, but sorry Klaatu, I had to throw you out under the bus there.
And now he, real life, unfortunately, does affect us, and we, we all try to work around
that.
So thanks to Klaatu for all his help, and, and you'll be seeing more of him in season
two, along with the rest of the host.
So this has been my HPR, and have a good day.
Thank you for listening to HACR Public Radio, HPR is sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over
