Episode: 979
Title: HPR0979: Sunday Morning Linux Review Episode 029
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0979/hpr0979.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 16:56:37

---

Music
Well, I guess this is the Pengercon edition of the sunny morning Linux review with Tony
Beamous.
Matt Enders.
And Mary Tommatch.
All right.
And then we start off with a little bit of catch up from the last week.
It's like Pengercon, it's the big thing going on.
That's right.
And like what we did.
Exactly.
And I got a little something what I did.
WSG at Mary.
Yeah.
All right.
Yep.
I was browsing the internet and I came across an interesting site for me and it actually
was some icons for KDE and it's based on that Rosa distribution which I think came
from from Andriva.
So what I did is I went ahead and installed them and they're really, I mean, the install
file is like over, the install file is like over a hundred megabytes because it's got icons
for everything, even the small things in dolphin.
So I spent a little bit of time doing that and there'll be a link to the article so that
anyone who's listening and wants to download those, that icon set can do so.
So that was one thing I did and I, and I also wrote a technology article for our community
newsletter.
Who was Atlantic?
Did you tell them about all about Atlantic?
No.
It wasn't.
No, this one wasn't, but I am going to be introducing them to it.
But what I did is I wrote it about prey, the pre-project.
Oh, where that.
It's an open source.
Yeah.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah.
It is very cool.
Pre-project.com is it's a site for this application that will track your stolen laptop or
you're missing laptop, presumably it's stolen, but you know, I remember Mary, Mary installed
it and then reported hers as stolen.
And then every time she would vlog in, her webcam would come on every 10 seconds and take
a picture of her.
Yeah.
Yeah, it can be tested.
And report back the location and the picture to the website.
Yeah.
And we tested it and it was really pretty impressive.
So anyway, I decided to write an article about that, especially because someone in my
neighborhood's laptop was stolen, I think about a month ago.
Okay.
Not surprising.
Yeah.
What we should talk about is open source video monitoring so you can, everybody can get
their own security camera set up in their houses and.
Oh, zone minder, I think is the one that I'm aware of.
Zone minders one.
But if you want like a whole like server solution, then Linux MCE has built in two.
Linux MCE.
Yeah.
MCE is media center edition, but it also has a security monitoring system in it also, which
is pretty cool.
You can use cameras and, and sensors and, and then whenever the alarm goes off, it turns
on all the TVs in the house and starts blaring, you're the warning and, and then you can,
on your phone, you can call back in and start talking to the person.
Get out thief.
Get out.
Yeah, you can.
We're watching you.
We're watching you.
The police are on the way.
But you're in Detroit, so they're really not on the way.
Oh, yes, they are.
Okay.
That customer get broken into the, they had video cameras and the alarm going off, they,
they took the cops so long that they cleaned them out, spray painted on the wall, you've
been robbed.
And we're gone.
The cops showed up three and a half hours after the alarms that are going off.
Come on.
Oh, I'm not aware of that story.
I think you made that up.
I did not.
All right.
So anyway, that's what I've been doing.
So, and Tony, what have you been up to?
It's been a slow week for me.
I mean, just different things going on around home and stuff.
Anyway, Matt, do you have anything?
I did not really have any, I have a lot of personal stuff going on this week, but hopefully
that's going to calm down.
I'll have more, more to report next week on that.
All right.
On the, what was I doing this front?
All right.
Well, good.
We'll look forward to that.
We'll look forward to hearing as to what you've been up to.
You know, there is one thing that Gib just reminded me and I'll put a little plug in.
I have, I'm starting a little business, Gibs investing with me that we're going to sell
and use laptops.
And so this week that's picking up and I'm going to be getting them and they'll be for sale.
D830s.
Check out beamahs hosting.com and you can buy it right through the website.
What do you have installed on Ubuntu?
Yeah.
Well, it comes with the CoA for Vista.
They're going to put windows on them.
They're going to put windows on them.
Oh.
It depends.
I'm probably going to run Ubuntu as default.
And then if somebody box at that, then I guess I'll put the other operating system on it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, it's because it's legally as the key on it.
It's not legal if you read the Yola, but I won't get into that.
Shh.
Has the key on it.
Anyway, let's go.
I have, I actually have a soundboard here.
I'm working with today.
So what's met?
What's happening with the kernel?
All right.
The kernel news this week.
We had no release candidate this week.
So the mainline remains three dot four dash RC four.
Our stable updates were on Sunday, the 22nd at April, April 2012 at 1647 Pacific Daylight
Time.
Great.
3.0.29.
There were 55 files changed, 500 files inserted, and 207 files deleted.
Also on Sunday, April 22nd at 1649, Greg Crow Hartman released kernel 3.2.1.6.
There were 69 files changed, 488 files inserted, and 247 files deleted.
And then also on Sunday, April 22nd at 1650, Greg Crow Hartman released kernel 3.3.3.
There were 78 files changed, 538 files inserted, 319 files deleted.
And then later in the same week, because Greg is a busy beaver.
We had another update on Friday, April 27th at 1014 Pacific Daylight, kernel 3.0.30 was
released with 65 files changed, 314 files inserted, and 266 files deleted.
And also on Friday, April 22nd at 1046, Greg released 3.3.4 with 96 files changed, 544
files inserted, and 382 files deleted.
And I have no kernel quote this week, because I had too much stuff going on in my real life.
Sweet.
Oh, thank you for that update, Matt.
All right.
Yeah, so I know we tried doing some interview, or I tried an interview a few weeks ago.
It's somebody that actually worked on kernel stuff.
And I wanted to try to get a layman's description of what the kernel does, because both Mary and I,
we're not kernel people.
But hopefully that'll come up later.
He's Matt.
Matt thinks he is.
All right.
Well, we know you report on it very well.
I stand up.
What's going on?
Tony, what's going on with the Linux distributions this week?
We have a ton of digital releases this week.
We have, the reason it will look really big is because you've got...
Apple of Marabuntu.
Yeah, all the different Ubuntu releases.
But aside from that, there's still a lot.
Moving off on the 24th, we have Scientific Linux 5.8.
And if you're not familiar with Scientific Linux, it's built on the source from Red Hat Enterprise.
And it's mainly geared toward academic things.
So it's very similar to CentOS.
Yeah, it's like CentOS in the fact that it's a Red Hat clone, but they add some extra
packages in there to make working it with a scientific environment more easy.
Yeah.
And then on the 24th also is Linux Mint 2012-04, which was the Debian edition.
Any comment on that?
I did use that as the base install for my hybrid installation that I'm running now.
All right.
Which we talked about last week.
But I can do it again if you like me.
No, I heard enough last week.
Did you use the 2012-04 edition?
I did.
I used it in the RC version.
It was an RC when I did it.
All right.
What I did was I installed Linux Mint, Debian, and then I commented out all of the repositories
except for the one that has cinnamon in it, and then put the Debian testing repositories
into my sources.list, and then did my first update and been running happily, happily ever since.
All right.
We also have Untangled Gateway, which was really some of the 24th.
That's a Debian distro design for firewalls and gateways.
There's a ton of distros for firewall type things.
So it's kind of you just get in and try it and see what you like.
On the 25th, Tiny Coral Linux, 4.5, that's one of the minimalist distros for desktop.
I've actually used that.
It's 10 megabytes.
The install is 10 megabytes.
That's pretty small.
Also on the 25th, is it Dragon or Dragora?
Dragora.
It's from Argentina.
2.2.
It's a Libre distribution.
Which means you could go through.
Well, it means you could go through a little bit of pain if you don't have a wireless card
that's got some free drivers for it or you've got other issues.
Right.
Well, this one's built.
I just don't want to have to work that hard to make my desktop work.
Right.
Next week, there is a Libre release and what was it called?
Triscale.
Triscale.
Triscale.
It was two weeks ago.
Was it two weeks ago?
Because we got that listener feedback.
Or was it last week?
It was last week.
It was last week.
Pretty sure.
Yeah, it was last week.
Be quiet, Matt.
I'm going to go.
Yeah, and I think we'll talk about that when we get to the listener feedback.
The listener feedback at the end.
Yeah, absolutely.
Also on the 25th was clear OS 6.2, the community, which it's a Red Hat based links distribution
designed for small business and servers and gateways.
Yeah, they just had a release a couple, maybe three weeks ago or so I think.
Well, they track Red Hat like scientific incentives.
Okay.
Whenever the Red Hat has one, then a couple weeks later they have one.
Okay.
It's nonsense.
It wasn't clear OS used to be called.
Clark Connect.
Yeah, Clark Connect.
Yeah, that's exactly right.
They switched what they were based on, when they were Clark Connect, they weren't based
on Red Hat.
Okay.
Yeah, a few weeks ago, on the third was their development release, the RC one.
Oh, okay.
Maybe that's what it was.
Yeah.
All right.
What's next?
Anyway, next is Swift Linux 0.2.0, which is a lightweight distro with ICE WM.
And now it's based on Linux Mint Debian Edition.
Yeah, you know, and they've got, I tell you, I went to the site and not only do they have
just the regular Swift, but they've got like the lightweight.
They've got the Taylor Swift Linux, they have the Minneapolis Swift, and they have the
Chicago Swift.
I'm going to lobby for a Detroit Swift.
All right.
I thought that was kind of.
Oh, you know, we're talking about doing our own distro.
Maybe we can do the SMLR Swift.
Yeah, but where are we going to use like that open system tool, where you get to Mary
wanted to?
Yeah.
All right.
So keep going there.
Yeah.
And then there's Backbox, Linux 2.0.5, which is a Ubuntu based for penetration testing.
Yeah.
And, you know, and I'm glad you, I'm glad you mentioned that because when I was looking
at these yesterday, I looked at Backbox and I thought, wow, penetration testing, I
started looking at some of the apps that are associated with it.
And there's one kind of jumped out at me, Creepy.
Oh, I thought to myself, well, I'm going to check Creepy out.
Creepy.
Yeah.
Creepy.
And so it's actually it's C-R-E-E.py, so it's a Python based app.
And what it does is it's in the Ubuntu repositories, but what it does is it will take Twitter, not
Twitter feeds, but you just feed it a person's Twitter name.
And it will go out and it will find where they tweeted that.
So if you and they'll go back a certain period of time.
And so you will then see where they were when they made the various tweets.
I installed it.
Wow.
I just arbitrarily pulled the guy's name off from Twitter and I found out he's in San Diego.
I found out the street design and I thought to myself, from geolocation stuff.
Geolocation.
Exactly.
Wow.
So I wanted to mention that.
So there'll be a link in the show notes to the app specifically.
And as I said, it's in the Ubuntu repository.
You know, a lot of the Android apps are doing that now for just about anything.
If you're going to do posting and stuff, it's going to put your location by default.
So you've got to look to see if you don't want that on there, you've got to actively shut
that off.
So do you know what they want to do when you use it, do you address it to your location,
say you have to do this themselves?
Oh, I haven't seen you.
I mean, I don't watch it much.
Right.
Yeah.
The question was, have we ever seen anyone transproof geolocation?
Not yet, but I'm sure it's probably happened.
Yeah.
But anyway, I wanted to just interject that.
Tony, sorry for you.
Yeah.
No, it's all right.
And actually one other thing is that I know Matt's been putting on Google Plus a couple
of things and just so you know, your location is going on Google Plus.
Yeah, whenever I use my, whenever I do it for my phone, it puts my location on it.
So you mean when you want to look if you want to turn that off?
I don't care.
All right.
You can tell that I'm posted from the GFS parking lot while I'm waiting for my wife if
you want.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's about Taylor anyway.
All right.
So on the 26th was the whole slow, salue of the Ubuntu releases.
So 12.04 pre-sized penguin was released.
And so I'll read off the whole slow of them.
See we have Ubuntu, Ubuntu, Ubuntu, Mythbubuntu, Ubuntu, Ubuntu Studio, Ubuntu Studio,
Ubuntu Remix, and that's all they have left.
Yeah.
The Ubuntu family.
And half of them actually was released on the 27th.
I don't know what the difference was maybe, maybe just hit a digital watch the day later
and said.
Yeah.
And there've been quite a few, obviously quite a few reviews of it.
And I did listen to one on I think it was a Linux action show podcast and it intrigued
me so much that I went ahead last night and I installed Ubuntu 12.04 and I have to
tell you that I was impressed with the Unity interface but I was also very impressed with
the HUD and the fact that if you're a keyboard person and if you can do something on the keyboard
you don't have to go over to the mouse, that is really nice because you just type a few
letters and up pops most likely the program that you're looking to run and you can just
go ahead and run it.
I can do that in mind too.
I just hit the super key and then start typing whatever I want.
Yeah.
I'm sure it's pretty similar.
It's similar with HUD, it's the heads up display and you just hit the super key or the
windows key and then start typing what you want and then it sorts through all the list
and stuff.
I haven't a click on menu, then applications, then blah blah blah and it's kind of fuzzy
searching.
I mean, it just really, yeah, I think Nome 3 really started doing that also.
So cinnamon, it's a nice really well, yeah, so that's Unity, just stole it from Nome
3.
So anyway, but it's pretty nice and I think Ubuntu did a great job in this particular
distro.
Tony, thanks for mentioning that.
Yeah.
What else do you get?
The 27th was Proxmox 2.1, which is in virtual environment.
It's an open source virtualization platform for running virtual appliances and virtual machines
based on Debian.
It's asking for the barista.
And then last release was on the 28th, or no, I'm sorry, that's not the last release.
As of yesterday, it was last release, but anyways, I'll get to the next one.
We have Rosa or Rosa.
Actually, that was a development release.
No, it's a distribution release.
Oh, okay, I guess I, I guess distribution is spelled D-E-V-E-L-O-P-M-E-N-T.
Sorry.
You're out of date because the one I'm looking at right here says Rosa, distribution
release.
Maybe they changed it.
My, my district of life changed to way different years.
The colors are different.
You know yesterday.
You're outdated.
I bet there was a, yeah, I think that's what it is.
I think yesterday it said, you're pulling some cash, Matt.
You're pulling some cash.
I think he had a typo and he fixed that.
Anyway, so I guess it's a development race, not a, anyways.
And then Tails was released this morning.
As we were recording, I did a refresh and it came up.
Oh, you're right.
All of a sudden, my, all of a sudden, the Rosa changed from a distribution to a development
release.
Yeah.
Thanks, Matt.
You were actually like for a change, right?
Yeah.
Anyway, so today on the 29th, Tails 0.11 was released.
They're a Debian-based distro design for anonymous internet surfing.
They also have another name for it.
What?
Boring surfing, I'll just get it.
Where is it?
If you go to their website, it's not called Tails, it's called something else and it's
different.
Anyways.
Oh, let me look.
And so what, it basically anonymizes your surfing and it does so through.
Tails stands for the Amnesiac Incognito Live System.
Yeah, yeah.
And it uses the Onion Router or Tor to anonymize your surfing.
So if you want to, if you're doing things that you don't want the people to watch you,
then that's an option.
And they're running it on a live CD.
Also, it leaves no log files or anything behind too.
It's really good for surf and porn at work.
All right.
Well, that's what I have for the releases.
All right.
Thanks, Tony.
All right.
What are our top five?
Oh, that's right.
Wait, I have...
Yeah, he releases it.
Let me get over to it.
I don't use this soundboard much.
So let's, number four.
The disc row of the week, according to disc row watch, calculated by website, it's forbidden.
All right.
So I refreshed it earlier and now I have to go back and refresh it again because I've
been surfing around a little bit on the disc row watch.
But what I've noticed is a lot of the disc rows that I normally on there have been kicked
off.
Number five is Open Suci with 14...
What?
No, I changed it.
No, number five is Magia.
Yeah, that's what I thought it was.
Yeah, with 14 and 53.
Did you like it?
No, now it's time.
Did you like it to go before you?
This week?
Number four is Swift with 14...
What's going on with Magia?
What's going on with Magia?
What's going on with Magia?
What's going on with Magia?
What's going on with Magia?
What's going on with Magia?
Oh, yeah, I'm sorry.
That's weirdo.
This is the second week in a row.
Oh, man.
All right.
Maybe I can't help you out.
Okay, go ahead.
Keep moving.
And the math, what's Swift doing?
And Swift is trending up.
Number three is Fedora.
And trending down with 1727.
The number two is number two still with 4732.
And trending up only because they had a big distribution.
Really?
Really?
And mint is at number one with 5153.
And trending up.
Yeah.
So then you'll see Matt's hybrid testing.
That's great.
You think it makes sense?
You think it makes sense?
It makes sense.
It makes sense.
It makes sense.
It makes sense.
1,562.
All right.
Well, that's good.
That's good.
It's time for the tech news of the week.
First up, we have Google Drive released not so much for Linux.
The long rumored online store from Google has been announced as a reality.
Unless, of course, you're running a Linux desktop.
I don't know.
But if it were me and my entire business was built on top of Linux,
that it might be the first client I produced, they have an Android client.
How difficult can it be?
Every subscriber will get five gigabytes for free with the opportunity to upgrade
to any of the following plans.
There's like eight of them.
I'm not going to read them all.
I'm only going to say like three.
So you can get 25 gigabytes of storage for 249 a month,
one terabyte for $49.99 a month,
or 16 terabytes for $7.99.99 a month.
So they have a lot of storage out there.
So I can put all my songs up there then.
You could, yes.
Yeah, just a comment on that too.
Five gigs for free is pretty good,
because I think the going free size was two.
Yeah, for most places, it's two.
I would not be surprised if they up it.
So what you could really do is get spider oak five.
Was it Dropbox five?
Dropbox is five?
No, assuming they go up to five.
Oh, everybody else is saying it's going to go up to five.
Yeah, you have three of them for free.
Because you have box of up to five.
Yeah.
Anyway, but I pay for mine.
You can access the service at drive.google.com,
although it is currently not ready for me,
except it is ready for me,
because I went back now and they said it is ready for you.
It will support over 30 file types that you will be able to open right in your browser.
It will integrate with Google Plus, Gmail, and Google Docs.
You can share files or folders with anyone
and control whether they will be able to view, edit, or comment on your stuff.
Extensive search capabilities, including OCR for pictures and scanned documents.
And my favorite feature, Document Rollback for up to 30 days.
Google Drive tracks all changes so that when you save a document
and new revision is saved,
and you can roll that back for as long as 30 days.
So that is the new Google online store.
And so mad, is it like Dropbox for you
maintain a local copy and it is backed up to you?
If once they actually have the app for Linux, yes.
But they don't have currently have an app for Linux,
which I discussed at the beginning.
Yeah, I know.
No, but I am just saying in general the concept behind it,
if it is like Drop.
Yeah, it will be.
Once they have an app for Linux, like I said at the beginning.
Yeah.
Yeah, I know.
Okay.
It is early.
Next up, Slackware, Alive and Well, Despite Rumors.
The main website for Slackware went down,
and the rumor will went into Overdrive.
These discussions were hot and heavy on LinuxQuestions.org and DistroWatch.
The discussions very quickly shifted from website problems
to the long term viability of Slackware.
This was compounded by Eric Cameliers, a top Slackware contributor,
when he posted this early in the LinuxQuestions discussion.
Old hardware, lack of funds.
I am sure that it was not his intended effect,
but this was like throwing gasoline onto an already raging fire.
The conversation quickly veered into the what can be done
to save Slackware land.
The fires were then fanned even higher when Caitlin Martin,
developer of the Eric Linux, which has made this statement on DistroWatch,
disparaging the long term viability of Slackware.
You remember that comment about my involvement in the development
of a Slackware derivative?
Forget it.
We're already discussing about the laying of the lease
and rebasing it off of something with a more secure future.
This successfully torqued off a huge number of people
in the discussion on both websites.
She responded to these comments by maintaining her stance
that she was only concerned about upstream stability.
The positive to come out of Martin's comments
was that it prodded Cameliers into clarifying his comments.
The Slackware.com server is down.
This is a technical malfunction.
It costs money to do something about that.
Something will be done about that server.
But if it takes a while, it is most likely caused by prioritizing
and finances.
Slackware was without, was without its own web server
for a long time in the past, and still active,
are ftp.slackware.com and conate.slackware.com.
So what's the big deal?
This turning of the rumor mill is pretty much unfounded
and I see some of the same old people pouring oil on the fire as usual.
There is no reason to doubt the availability, stability,
and long term viability of Slackware.
The distribution has not been a one-man show for some time.
The development effort is substantial and plainly visible
in the change log.
And there are no plans to switch to another development model
or even ditch the distribution.
Cameliers went into greater detail about Slackware's
financial situation on Linux questions.
He says there, it's not that difficult if everybody suddenly
stops buying stuff from the Slackware store,
then Slackware will not last another year in its present form.
The store sales are Pat's income and it feeds several other people too.
But remember, the core team surrounding Pat
do not get a penny of these revenues at all.
Therefore, the rest of the team is not impacted in any way by Slackware sales,
figures, and we will keep working with Pat on the distribution
just like we have been doing in the past, for the past years.
Look at the change log.
Sometimes there is a period of relative silence,
but that does not mean that no work is being done like last week.
The updates can come in big gulps.
Slackware will not die.
It's philosophy will not change.
The team is dedicated and full of ideas.
If people start chickening out and cancel their subscriptions,
then that is a pity.
Thankfully, I see lots of other Slackware users who decided that
this is a good point to make a donation or buy something at the store
if their financial situation allows it.
And I went and bought a hat.
Thanks to all of you for supporting the cause.
And remember, if you cannot financially support Slackware,
then helping your fellow Slackware users in forms like this one
is an invaluable form of support as well.
Slackware will not die because of financial issues.
It will die if all of its users leave.
As Hamelmeer points out, a project like Slackware can never really go away.
As long as there is a strong community around it,
even as the project folds financially,
and Patrick did not transfer the copyrights on Slackware to the community,
it would continue under a different name.
However, for now, there is absolutely no indication that any of that
is either in the near or distant future.
You know, man, just hearing you report on that story
and the fact that people step up when they heard about the possibility
of Slackware or at least the rumor of Slackware discontinuing.
I mean, that's indicative of, I think, the open source community in general.
I know a couple weeks ago we talked about the Humble Bundle,
the indie games, and the biggest average contribution that didn't come from Windows users,
it came from Linux users.
Linux always leaves the Humble Bundle in largest contribution to receive the Humble Bundle.
Yep, exactly.
Because if you're not familiar with how the Humble Bundle works,
it's a game bundle that's cross-platform.
They make it for all the games available on it,
or play on Linux, Windows, or Mac,
and you can pay whatever you want for it.
You can just pay a dollar.
You can pay a hundred dollars.
And they track, like, which distributions, which operating systems are providing the most money
in the largest contributions to the project in order to receive the Humble Bundle,
always come from Linux.
Yeah, I think they just released another bundle last week, I think.
Not total dollar amount.
That by far comes from the Windows users.
But their user contribution is what we're talking about.
Yeah, it was called Benicula, or Benicula, or something like that was the last release.
I don't know if I trust you pronouncing it.
Tony is not our king of pronunciation.
Yeah.
And we've given him my hard time on many episodes.
It's actually a botanicula.
Oh, all right.
There you go.
And moving on, we have the Hungarian government solidifies its commitment to ODF.
Last year, the Hungarian government announced that from April 2012 forward,
all government documents needed to be produced in an internationally recognized open document standard.
To further this commitment, they're going to invest $370 million Hungarian for it,
which is approximately $1.7 million US dollars, in applications that utilize open document formats.
The two main beneficiaries of this investment will be the Department of Software Engineering
at the University of, and I'm not even going to try it, it's S-Z-E-G-E-D,
and Multi-Rasio, an open source development company.
Multi-Rasio developed an open office suite originally based on openoffice.org called Euro-Office.
They are now going to produce a version for tablets and improve the collaborative functions within Euro-Office.
Cosmere, Colossar, a developer at Multi-Rasio, said that the development responsibilities would break out like this.
The University of S-Z-E-G-D will do the quality assurance and usability related research and tool development.
Multi-Rasio will develop the office application and work on several extensions.
All I have to say is good on you, Hungary.
I wish that countries like mine would do more to push open formats.
I have even considered suing entities like my state government for their continued use of proprietary formats on their website,
which the state of Michigan does. If you go to the state of Michigan's website, a lot of the documents that they have there for download are all in .doc format.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, it's just, it's horrible.
Yeah, I mean, they kind of make the assumption that everybody's running Microsoft Word, which isn't necessarily the case.
Correct.
But in addition to you mentioning that, I came across something and I'm kind of jumping in here, Matt, if you're not done yet.
I'm not, but we'll let it slide. Go ahead, Matt.
All right.
Actually, Microsoft Office, you know, they, I think with Office 2007 Service Pack 1, they are compatible with ODF 1.1, but Office 15, which, you know, they're kind of renaming their office suite.
It's going to support ODF 1.2, because you remember a few years ago, they, they tried to put forth their own standard was old XML.
Yeah, yeah. They got too many, they got too many initials, it's not going to succeed.
Yeah, they got shot that hard.
Yeah. So anyway, but that's, that's pretty good. Keep going.
All right. And moving on, less than 25% of OOSS, which stands for open source software, used in corporations is managed correctly.
Sonotype released the results of a recent survey showing that 500 out of 2500 respondents said they were locked down to only use corporate approved components.
Only 49% that their companies had a policy in place. Then 63% indicated that their corporate standards were not enforced or that they did not have a policy.
Sonotype also noted that the use of open source components is on the rise.
Almost 80% of respondents said that they used open source tools regularly. Around 50% have migrated to an open source development stack, and over 65% claimed to contribute to open source projects.
In their press release, Sonotype said this about the use of open source.
Key to modern development practices is the use of open source components to build mission critical applications.
The question is, where do we think web-based software is going like web-based word processing and things like that.
And I think it's going to be on the rise. Google Docs especially has this thing for K12.
And if you get the kids indoctrinated into this new process, then it's just going to happen.
And that's the problem now is that Microsoft gives such huge discount to schools that that's why the Microsoft philosophy is what gets indoctrinated.
Do you know how much I pay for a Windows 7 professional license? $50.
Okay, it's ridiculous how much they discount to schools just so they can get the children indoctrinated.
But yeah, hopefully that's going to change. And Google Docs I think is a good move towards it.
Moving on, we have Red Hat, Susan, and IBM form partnership while canonical stays on the sidelines.
IBM's new power server line will be available with either Red Hat or Susilinix, but not Ubuntu.
After more than a year in development, IBM rolled out their new power server systems and solutions.
These machines are Linux specific utilizing the power seven processor-based hardware.
These machines are targeted at mid-range to large range enterprises.
They are designed for big data analysis and delivering open source infrastructure services.
Canonical chose not to offer their server product on these units. Could that be due to their fear of having to actually support an enterprise class customer?
No.
This is how IBM envisions the use of this new server line.
The new power Linux solutions and supporting systems are designed to provide customers with lower development time and costs and greater performance,
dependability and workload density, than competitive x86 platforms at similar price points.
So where was canonical in all of this?
They were busy releasing one of the best distributions that they are releases that they've ever had.
That's what they were doing, man.
They also had been working with IBM to deliver Ubuntu on IBM's system p mini computer.
That partnership, however, floundered into nothing.
Here is how Mark Shuttleworth, canonical's founder, spun the announcement.
We don't support power because by mutual agreement with IBM, there's little to no overlap between the power user base and Ubuntu people are choosing Ubuntu for farms of commodity servers
and power has been adopted for highly specialized mission critical roles.
If IBM ever wanted to reach either the cloud or bulk computing market with power, then I expect the stats above would be relevant for their choice of OS because they reflect the real choice of those markets.
And my response to that is, huh?
I had a hard time following that statement, but what I think it boils down to is this.
IBM and Ubuntu agree that Ubuntu would be hard pressed to actually support a large enterprise customer.
IBM Red Hat and Susa still believe that there is a market out there for the big machine built on quality hardware as opposed to large farms of X86 systems trying to do the job of a bigger machine.
Yeah, well, I want to say one thing is that Matt seems to have a lot of news items because he does the most research and because he writes them out, we don't want to take those away from him.
So we ended up, we usually end up finding a lot of the same articles because they hit all the same websites.
So if Matt always seems like he's talking more, it's because he does a little bit more work than we do.
Hey, wait a minute.
Just my contribution. I do that.
He does more writing.
I spend enough time checking stuff.
How long do you think it takes me to put that together?
Hour?
That's like 18 hours worth of work.
I'm not sure it is. No, Matt. You're right.
You're right. I'm not going to take that away from you.
I was kidding.
All right. Yeah. So I don't have any news this week.
So let's go on into the convention scene.
Yeah. And I'm actually, you know, normally I do this the first our first podcast of the month, but because the first of the month is really early in the week, I decided to kind of get a jump start on it.
So what we got what we have going for the month of May, we've got.
And DevCon 3, and that's the Android Developers conference.
That's May 14 through the 17th.
And that's a technical conference for software developers building Android apps in case you couldn't figure that out.
Next weekend, we've got Libra Graphics meeting 2012.
That conference is a number one event for users and developers of free software for graphic design, photography, 3D modeling and animation.
That's going to be in Vienna and at the technical.
We also have this month May 25 through the 26th in London.
I love London. It is Flossy 2012.
Flossy is a free two day event for women who work with or are otherwise interested in free and open source software.
So that's, that's pretty cool. If I were closer, I'd probably go.
May 28 through June 1st, we've got the Lanaro connection.
That's a convention to discuss and develop features, infrastructure and optimizations for the Linux kernel.
Android, Ubuntu and beyond on arm processors.
May 23 through the 26th, we've got Linux Tag.
That's, they characterize themselves as the most.
Linux Tag.
Normally, I'm pretty good at pronouncing those.
All right, thanks.
Linux Tag, it's the most important, or they characterize themselves as the most important place for Linux and open source software in Europe.
And this, this year, it's going to be in Berlin at the fairground.
Because it means Linux Day, Tag is Day.
Well, then I, well, actually, it's three days long though, but all right.
All right. And moving right along, we've got FASCOM.
And that's May 12th and 13th this month. FASCOM.
And that actually stands for free and open source software communities.
It's a Greek conference aiming at open source enthusiasts, developers and communities.
It's going to be taking place in serious Greece.
And then finally, on our list of conventions this month, we've got the open source business conference 2012.
That's May 21st and 22nd out in the San Francisco, California at the High End Regency.
That conference is geared toward the influence of open source on cloud data and mobile software.
So links for all these conventions will be in the show notes.
And so I got on the convention scene this month.
All right. Cool. All right. A lot of them going on here.
Yeah, a lot. Actually, and I just noticed that I didn't really read them in date order either.
So I will, I will go ahead and reorganize them before we put them up.
All right. So FYI for you, Tony. Thanks.
Mary's telling me that because I typically do the show notes posted on the website.
And look, we have actually our fourth audience participant walking in right now.
We have a third one earlier than I'd like to mention.
Kind of still kind of early on a Sunday morning.
Okay. So that anyway. So that's it for me on that front.
All right. Well, I think we should go into what we've found cool at PengerCon.
Yes.
Yes.
We said in unison.
And actually, well, aside from all the very cool techie sessions that I attended that Linux,
a core Linux security, which I thought was very good.
Oh, yeah. That was going to be my favorite one that I've attended so far.
Mark, I think his name is Stanislaw.
Stanislaw. Stanislaw. Stanislaw.
Yep. Mark's presentation was excellent.
Oh, it was incredible.
Pretty geeky, but I loved it.
I loved it too.
I found out about a thing called GR security that I hadn't known about.
So I started reading it a little bit about it.
It's kind of like SE Linux for the kernel.
So yeah, that's really cool.
I really like that talk too.
And I think one of my favorites was actually not even a tech one because PengerCon for those
who are not aware of it is also include science fiction and other interests in addition to
Linux and technology.
But I went to the HP Lovecraft, known in the future mainly because I always enjoyed HP Lovecraft.
So that was pretty interesting for me.
It was a panel discussion, actually, and it was interesting.
Cool.
And there was another thing that we learned about Mary.
We learned about that at the core file system or something.
Oh, that was the...
We could redirect the file directly to your speakers.
And yesterday morning, yesterday morning, we were sitting in the Starbucks down here doing this.
Just laughing our butts off going, how geeky are we?
We're sitting in Starbucks redirecting text files to our speakers and making static and laughing about it.
But I have one ready to go.
All right, go ahead.
That was an LS-L-A on my home directory.
Redirected to my speakers.
So that's what all of this files sound like in raw.
In raw.
So I'm sorry?
Nice, that's what you're all...
That's what all your files sound like in the raw.
Yeah, that's what...
At least a listing of all my files in direct.
With no sound processing.
Of course they wouldn't even play.
They wouldn't process through audio.
But raw sound.
Pretty good.
I thought it was...
We just thought it was hilarious in case you can't tell since I'm still laughing my ass off about it.
Yeah, cool.
And then what I thought was really cool is that I went into...
I mean, I've been using it for a while and we mentioned it a little earlier, but Biobu.
It's BYOBU.
And I think we convinced Matt to use it too.
There's a lot more to it than I knew about.
I think you convinced Matt to look at it.
I do think it's cool and I will look at it.
But it's a punty.
It's a Python wrapper around either screen or T-mux.
And that was the new thing that I didn't know about is that for T-mux also.
But there's a lot to it that I like the tiling features.
I think that's what I'm going to start using.
The one features?
Tiling.
Oh yeah, the tiling.
But you can run multiple terminal sessions in one window.
That's what that...
So you can see them all at once.
Not just tabs going around.
That's what I thought was the coolest thing was...
If you had your session full screen, you could have a big one at the top.
And then you could have multiple smaller ones at the bottom.
And then with a key combination, you can rotate through them.
So if you notice something going on down there that you really want to get a better look at,
you can just swing it up to the big one.
And it was really, really cool.
Tailing a log file and you're watching what it's doing.
And you just let that run in the background.
And then all of a sudden you see it start doing something.
You want to bring it up larger.
You just hit a key combination.
It brings up large.
So you could be mounting something, you know, a hard driver.
I mean, if you're trying to test something, a USB or whatever.
Testing.
And then you could be taking a look at the log file just to see real time what's going on with it,
without having to go back and forth.
Yeah, yeah, it's really cool.
And you can do all this without even X running.
You can do it.
Like if you're an SSH into a server and run multiple sessions on servers.
Yeah, because it uses screen or team up.
If you don't even need X, it's spent.
It was it blew my mind.
All right.
Well, that's pretty good, Tony.
Yeah.
Because normally I'll do like SSH change.
I'll SSH into this server.
And then from that server, I'll SSH into that server.
And that gets really confusing after a while.
You know, where am I?
What am I doing?
Yeah.
I was going to say, too, when you're done, I've got kind of an interesting little one.
Yeah, that's all I had.
Yeah.
Okay.
I think I mentioned earlier in our episode here that I had taken a listen to the Linux Action Show just a bit.
And they had talked about, they had actually had heard this from another podcast,
so they had inserted it into their show.
And what it is, this is an app that's available in Chrome.
Chrome browser.
Because you know, those of you who run Chrome know that you've got the Chrome Web Store,
the Chrome App Store, where you can install various apps right in the browser.
This one is the Chrome Remote Desktop app.
And actually, it says beta, but it's pretty solid.
And what it does is it allows two remotely or two people who are running Chrome in different locations.
It allows one to remote into the other.
You have to, obviously, first install it, and then you have to set up who's going to be the share E,
and who's going to be the share R.
And then once that's established, then the person that's going to be sharing their desktop gets a code
that then they give to the other person by telephone or by some method,
who then has to insert it, and then once that's done, they are connected,
and then they have access to the desktop to do support or do whatever they need to do.
Is it two-way?
Like, do they each have access to each other's desktop?
Or does the share E only have access to the share Ores desktop?
The share Ores has access to the share E's desktop.
You had it pretty close, just reverse it.
So it's kind of like team viewer inside Chrome?
Yeah, that was kind of my impression of it.
But it's a remote assistance tool.
Yeah, exactly.
And to have that right in a browser was pretty cool.
It is very cool because they don't have to walk somebody through installing team viewer,
and then you ask.
So anyway, that'll be in the show notes for anybody who's interested in that.
But again, if you've got Chrome, just go to the Chrome store and type in remote desktop,
and you'll see it.
You'll see it.
You can install it.
And then call up one of your friends and set up a test session and just see how it works.
Okay, so that's what I got for some neat stuff this week.
Cool.
All right.
It's listener feedback time.
So we have one person emailed us this week, and I lost my note.
It was, I can't remember his name, but Jay Mathis.
Jay Mathis.
Because we had, we had talked about the Triskow release last week,
and then he said, you guys seem pretty negative about Triskow,
which I wasn't really negative about Triskow.
I was negative about Libra distributions in general.
And if you're not familiar with what a Libra distribution is,
it's a distribution that strips anything proprietary out,
such as your Wi-Fi drivers and all kinds of things like that.
And I just don't want to have to work that hard to make my desktop work.
Yeah, Libra isn't free.
Libra isn't free as in like free of freedom.
Oh, so it's not like follows Virgo.
Libra.
Okay, I got it now.
Just kidding.
Just kidding.
All right.
So, all right.
Well, I'm going to take the challenge on now.
I'm going to, you know, because if Jay Mathis felt that we were maybe
were a little negative on it, I'm going to go ahead.
And he said strongly about Triskow.
He was like, he's big into Triskow.
I'm going to take on that challenge and install it,
and then report back on my experience.
And we'll take a look at it, discuss it a little bit,
and we'll kind of see where it goes.
But again, you know, if they said before,
and we said probably numerous times,
the great thing about Linux is the choice.
That's right.
So, people who are purists and really want to just run...
If you're in that Richard Stollman...
Repriatory.
Free software.
Or OS, you certainly can do that.
Right.
And we've talked about that in the past.
I'm much more as opposed to the FSF camp and the OSI camp.
I'm a pragmatist.
I just wanted to work and work well.
Mm-hmm.
And not be Windows.
And not be Windows.
All right.
I'm sorry.
That was a little editorial thing I threw in there.
Yeah.
All right.
All right.
That was our feedback for the webinar.
Yeah, so we had feedback.
So thanks, Jay Mathis.
Yeah.
Listen next week and you'll hear the results.
All right.
I think we're coming toward the end of our show here.
Is there anything else you guys?
I don't have anything else I'm tapped out.
All right, so at the end of each of the...
I'm sorry, Mary, did you have anything else?
No, I was just listening attentively to you.
All right.
At the end of each of the show, I play a song,
I call it the outro music.
And it's always creative comments and really available.
And punk, I think, usually.
No, not usually.
Just the last couple of weeks.
Last week.
Last week.
Last week.
It's supposed to be punk, but it disappointed me.
I love you, Dalma.
Right.
So this week is...
Can't stop it.
It's by Cher.
Take a listen.
Sorry for this first line.
That tells the meaning about it to the right.
I'm sorry for this whole idea.
I'm sorry for being here.
I only have one way.
I just can't stop it.
And wait.
I optimalize there it is.
I'm sorry I'm sorry.
I'm surprised.
I was out of my mind for a second.
I try to come over here to come over.
I can't stop it anyway, I can't stop it anyway, I can't stop it anyway
I'm sorry for the green house of fact, I'm sorry for the Jeff's whale contract, I'm sorry for it's killed and I found
I'm sorry for the cake you chaggies, but I'm buggy, I can't stop it anyway, I can't stop it anyway, I can't stop it anyway, anyway
I'm sorry for each terrorist, I'm sorry for your approach and fails, I'm sorry for being such a fool
I'm sorry that we're so cruel by the way, I can't stop it anyway, I can't stop it anyway, I can't stop it anyway
anyway
I can't stop it anyway, I can't stop it anyway, I can't stop it anyway, anyway
I can't stop it anyway, I can't stop it anyway
yeah so at the end of the show we always have our outro of comment
comment yeah so you've been listening to the pangokon edition of the Sunday Morning Linux review with Tony Beamus, bad enders
and Mary Tomuch
hey see you next week, have a good week
thank you
anyway, where's the banjo, I didn't hear any banjo
sky is not banjo, we're going to try and get something that a banjo can't sit in it this week
and the reason why we did that is because we reviewed shock relinics last week
and I kind of raved about it and this is not going to be on our episode
we'll cut this out yeah we're going to edit this out
but for those of you who are trying to figure out why we're talking about banjo music and sit down music
I installed shock relinics and I was so impressed with it first of all it was originally a fork from Arch Linux
and which you know didn't mean a lot to me except that once I started digging and doing my research
and the fact that shock relinics runs the latest of everything and it's a pure KDE centric distribution
I was immediately interested and that doesn't mean you can install GTK apps
but what they do is they bundle them together so you've got your programs and then you've got the bundles
and you've got a bundle manager so that you can install it and it installs it
similarly to the way Mac install software where it's kind of like an ISO that gets kind of mounted
and it's available all the required libraries are in that bundle
and I think we talked last week about it being there could be a little bit of bloat
yeah a little bit of system bloat because you would wind up installing the same libraries over and over
but you know who cares who cares when you got a 300 gig hard drive
but anyway I mean that was my take on it so that so what I wanted to do chakra from I think from Hindu
it's these energy centers and so I was going to put a little sit-tarm music in there
we forgot to play it and then we played it later and I said well hey that kind of sounds like a banjo
yeah and so from there from there it just went downhill
so then we decided we're going to try to find some music that had sit-tarm banjo
which I don't think there is any
I couldn't find anything
so last week we did a quick search last week and we could not find anything that had sit-tarm and banjo in it
but that was supposed to be Tony's mission
yeah
well so you failed not just again
so anyway but that was it
you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does our
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HPR listener by yourself
if you ever consider recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy it really is
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and new phenomenon computer club
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com
all binref projects are crowd-sponsored by linear pages
from shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs
unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released on your creative commons
attribution, share a lot of details or license
