Episode: 742
Title: HPR0742: How I Got Into Linux
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0742/hpr0742.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 01:47:58

---

.
.
Hello everybody my name is Ken Fallon and today's show we're going to introduce you to.
Hi my name is Dave and I am a new Linux user and I live in Phoenix Arizona.
Okay Dave what brought you over to Linux?
I have a do PC repair on the side and I just started playing around with Linux here probably.
Two or three years ago and did it for mostly getting into broken window systems.
All right and what was it the.
A topic CD or.
What sort of tools do you use to repair when the windows PCs?
Most often I'm just going in and mounting the hard drive and getting the.
The data off the hard drives.
I've gotten used a few tools there for recovering photos and things off the hard drives.
Okay and how did you first hear about Linux?
You know I'm probably listening to either pod nuts or cut something with a door to door geek here.
They are do you subscribe to the Linux basics podcast?
Yeah I do the Linux basics and I've got the pod nuts and the pod nuts pro and.
Got a few other ones here.
Okay fantastic and what's your distro of choice?
Right now booted up with Linux mint.
Okay how are you finding that for you?
I'm enjoying it.
Been downloading a lot of ISOs though.
I'm starting to fill up the hard drive or whatever here.
I'm trying to burn a bunch of stuff off to a dist to free up some space.
Excellent.
So are you do you like KDE or no?
Or do you have preference?
Actually I'm in no.
I've got KDE.
I use it occasionally but I've got a Dell Studio 1535 notebook and I can't seem to get my wireless
to work in the KDE.
I guess with the wicked.
Although with the no maplet or whatever it just you know I don't have any problems at all with that.
So I boot up into KDE occasionally but when I do I don't have internet.
Okay that's a never a good thing.
So what do you miss most about I guess Windows?
Sorry what was that about Windows?
What do you miss most about your Windows computer?
Not a whole lot.
I'm able that my primary is mint and although I'm learning on it there's a lot of resources out there.
You know to go to a lot of the forums and all that.
So I just boot up into Windows mostly when I'm trying to got a customer and I'm trying to show them how to do something or working on a Windows computer.
But I mostly stick around and mint.
Okay very good. I just started checking out CrunchBand Linux on some old PCs.
It's kind of working very nice.
I'll have to try that CrunchBang.
You know being in the PC repair business here I've got a lot of older machines where I've gone in and people have just upgraded and given me the machines.
Get a few of those going in and go to the free Linux box and put them on.
Yep that is a free Linux box.org by link of the Linux link text show.
So Dave this is your first and my first venture into using mumble. How do you find it so far?
I'm not sure how I'm sounding to you but you're sounding really clear here and I'm just using the unboard audio on my studio 1535 Dell.
And it was fairly easy once I just ran the audio configuration wizard at the top of the screen there and just followed the prompts.
It was pretty straightforward.
Yeah I must say it's a scaringly easy to record a show there's a record button right there and you tell us where it's going to record.
And then I thought on your side you saw some message saying that I was reading the show is that correct?
Yeah and the left hand message or whatever it just said that you were starting to record there and it showed the server.
Cool so Dave I think we'll unless you have anything else to say we'll wrap this up and we'll choke this up as your first podcast on the hacker public radio network.
All right well I definitely appreciate the hacker hacker public radio I'm a subscriber to the podcast there and you know I appreciate everything everybody in the community is doing out there to help Linux become better and more popular you all have a good day.
Thanks YouTube be sure and join the mail list on hacker public radio.org form slash mail list and with that we'll sign off.
Thank you for listening to hacker public radio.
HPR is sponsored by caro.net so head on over to C-A-R-O dot anything for all of us.
Thank you very much.
