Episode: 530
Title: HPR0530: Setting up the samson C01u in linux
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0530/hpr0530.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 22:34:30

---

.
Setting up the Samsung C01U in Linux. First off, when you buy any sort of microphone,
get something really experiment with the variety of microphones.
Personally, I like the large diaphragm condenser mics, and the one I have is the Samsung C01U.
It costs around, I think it's about $100 now.
I ended up getting the microphone, the big shock mount, power filter, and a moon stand.
One thing that will ship with it is a tripod desk stand.
The thing, it's kind of cheap. Really, if you don't have any need for it, throw it away.
It'll do good in a pinch like, say if you're going to interview someone at a conference.
But that's really about it. I mean, I'm sure they had good intentions, but I do not trust a,
someone expensive microphone, to that.
Alright, the first thing that we're going to have to do when we get this microphone,
I bought mine from Amazon, CB Shockdown, power filter, and a moon stand.
You know, the microphone altogether was around $200, which is really not bad for a studio quality microphone.
Now, once we get the microphone in our hands, we do a lot of happy dance,
because you know, watching UPS tracking will drive you crazy.
What you should do is carefully, very carefully open everything and lay it out.
That's a habit of mine, and really just kind of index all the parts.
I don't know, it seems kind of anal, but, you know, we've all been in a situation where
you didn't give everything that was supposed to come with it.
You have to call the company, complain, wait for that part.
Yeah, that's not exactly fun.
So, after you lay everything out, what you should do is you take, say, a large-ish screwdriver
or the blade of a knife, look at the bottom of the microphone,
and you'll see a three-eighths inch adapter, take it out, turn it camera clockwise,
and almost forgot which clockwise it was.
Yeah, because I'm brilliant.
So, anyway, after you remove the adapter, if you bought the shock mount,
take a look at it and do the same, then you will take the shock mount.
If you have a boom stand, what you should do is do what the easiest thing to do
is to just screw the arm off.
It's just, it's on a regular, but what we'll call the body of the stand.
It has pretty much just a standard straight microphone stand.
The easiest thing to do is just screw the bit on the arm off.
You can take it off using a screw that holds it on top,
or you can just screw the whole bit off.
Without having to mess with it, take it off the screw, open the gun.
It doesn't fall and smash your toe, which happened to be in that really hurts.
You can take it, screw the hole into the shock mount.
Just hold the shock mount one hand, screw the hole in with the other.
Then make sure the shock mount, or spider mount, whatever you want to call it,
is facing the proper way, then place the microphone into it,
and there is a, it looks kind of a dial on the bottom,
but it's actually first screwing the microphone into the shock mount.
Secure that after you put the boom arm back on, of course,
because you don't want to drop that with your microphone in it.
Then put it in a desirable location, just really experiment.
If you sit down the podcast, if that's what you're using for,
or you're just sitting into it, then put it at a way where you can easily access it,
and swing it two more away from you.
I find it's easiest to have it on my left side,
where I can easily control with my left hand,
as I optionally read stories off the computer monitor for the podcast,
and I operate the mouse with the right hand.
So now that you have your full microphone kit assembled,
and it looks like a starter baby, pretty nice,
with a recording studio on the cheap,
take the provided USB cable,
plug it into the microphone, and plug it into your computer.
It does really matter what limits you're running.
You know, it can be arched, the door out of a boat too.
I set it up on all three, and it's easy as pie on all three.
My favorite mixer to use is G mixer, but more on that in a minute.
I'll include it with the microphone,
aside from the desk stand that we will throw away,
or you can keep it around, it doesn't matter.
Aside from the desk stand,
who wish you can keep it throw away, it doesn't matter.
It's a copy of Sonar LE Cakewalk software.
It's an audio editing software, much like Audacity,
but this mic works beautifully with Audacity.
You know, my tour of saying about G mixer,
to really get this mic going right,
the right channel is boosted a little bit more than the left one,
which is not really a huge issue.
It's something I had to go digging around to find out,
but once I got it going,
I quite enjoy this microphone.
I'm using it right now, actually.
Open up, say G mixer,
unlink the audio channels,
and set the left channel to around 65 to 70%.
If you're recording on Audacity,
whenever the, when you click to monitor microphone input,
whenever the meter for the two channels is even,
or slightly offset, which are the way you like it,
then you can go ahead and start recording with it.
But if you're using this microphone for, say,
Skype or Akigya or Gizmo,
you can leave it as it is,
since it will be compressed to a mono channel anyway.
It doesn't really matter too much for that.
But once you get this microphone set up
and in a desired location,
then it should last you a very long time.
Mine has a little bit of damage on the top of it.
I took it to Ohio Linux Fest in 2009.
It survived all through the entire event.
When I got home,
I had my laptop back open,
which is where the mic was,
and it rolled out,
and hit part of my bed.
And the plastic bit,
a lot of what we call a bit,
bit worse,
over the metal mesh on top of it.
Cracked, another was a dent in the mesh.
It doesn't really affect the sound at all.
So this has been
setting up the Samsung C-01U in Linux.
I'm TJ, take it easy,
and happy podcasting.
Thank you for listening to Hack with Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net,
so head on over to C-A-R-O.N-E-C for all of her TV.
Thanks for watching.
