Episode: 9
Title: HPR0009: This old Hack 4
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0009/hpr0009.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 10:16:40

---

.
Welcome to another exciting edition of this old hack.
This is Foxfire and you'll be listening to this old hack part 4.
We skipped number 3 and that was the dumpster diving special.
Now we're on episode 4 and let's see, first I know there's been some listener feedback
concerning the lack of commentary in the show.
I guess I'm supposed to explain how all this is supposed to work.
Alright, this is Foxfire and I'm killing in for Adam.
Welcome to episode 4 of this old hack.
We're going to consider dumpster diving episode number 3 so we don't have to go back and edit the third part of the desktop hacking series.
If you're not familiar with that series, it was started on twat tech last year sometime.
This is the boring part of the show.
According to listener feedback, we've not spent enough time actually explaining what is going on.
Instead, just jumping into y'all holding my beer, I'm going to play with some power tools.
We'll take a minute to explain this show to you.
Current events, stair wood use, performance enhancing drugs.
It used to be a day-bruth played baseball.
The only performance enhancing drugs they had were hookers, booze, and cigars.
So tonight in a memory of the old tradition, I've got beer and cigarettes.
My home, it's enhancing drugs for the evening.
Obviously, this show was pre-recorded.
As a matter of fact, it's January, and the show was recorded back in, I don't know, fucking July.
Sometime in the back of the summertime, it was like 105 degrees outside, and well, it was pretty fucking hot.
Today it was actually in the 70s, and it's the first week of January, so it's kind of interesting.
What does this have to do with hacking?
Well, there's a switch involved, hackers like switches.
I know you guys like switches.
Otherwise, it comes down to the fact that everything's like a system.
You got your electrical system, you got your electronics and your computers.
You got mechanical systems, like hogs, gears, wheels, internal combustion engines, that kind of thing.
Mechanical systems, electro-mechanical systems.
In my opinion, hacking is not just a computer, and what you can do with it, or what you can do to it.
It's also any kind of system, like social engineering, you're hacking people.
So, what this has to do with hacking, it's analyzing and fixing a system.
That's about it, really, and it's something I did, and I have recorded it because, well, what the fuck, why not?
Back at this show being pre-recorded, and performance enhancing drugs that I'm taking tonight,
we'll plan on recording a second part to this show.
I'm going to work on a little project here, and it'll be the closing section of the this old hack podcast.
Where I will play with boat torches while drinking beer.
Y'all hold them up here, listen to this.
Today, we're taking a break from the desk installation project.
Still a little work outside with the well.
Most of you people live in the city, and you've never had to work with the well before.
It's not like what you see in the movies.
There's not a giant hole in the ground, and I don't want the whole buckets of water up to the surface with the rope.
Today, the diameter of the hole is, let's say, about six inches, but actually I can't see the whole lot.
I can see as the top of the pump enclosure, but it's about six inches around, and there's some PVC pipe coming up.
There's a motor.
It's down inside the hole there, and there's a long hose that runs down.
However, many hundreds of feet, they had to drill down to the water table there.
So, there's a small hole, but like I said, there's a pump, and it comes.
The process normally runs it to a pressure tank, and then there's a pressure switch.
Now, what happens is the switch senses the pressure in the line, and if the pressure gets below a certain point, it causes the pump to run.
So, this way, when you turn on the faucet in the house, the pressure tank keeps the pressure up until the pump starts running.
And then the pump kicks on, and it runs until you turn the faucet off, and then it will shut off once the pressure in the tank has reached the appropriate level.
And last year, about this time, I redid all of the plumbing inside of the well house, where I've got the pipes that run to the underground pipe from the pressure tank,
and the pipe that runs to the water hose, and the spiket for the water hose, and the pipes that run from the pump to the pressure tank.
For pretty much everything there was.
Well, recently, the fitting that goes to the, so there's like an elbow that comes up out of the ground, makes a 90 degree angle, goes on for about six inches, and then makes another 90 degree angle back down.
And that, where it goes back down, runs into the actual pipe that goes to the pressure tank.
Well, the fitting, not the pipe itself, but the actual fitting, recently, ruptured to where it was spraying water everywhere in the well house here.
So, I took a piece of thick saddle leather, and it's a vice-cribs, and made up kind of a clamp tarniquet kind of deal to keep it from spraying, because it makes the lack of pressure makes the pump run.
Well, with it dripping instead of spraying, it maintains the pressure and doesn't waste a lot of water, and it wasn't a big deal.
Well, recently the drip got worse, and there was probably about an inch of water in the bottom of the well house today, and my wife happened to notice it, and I was going to work on it anyway, so it was a good thing that she got me out of bed to work on it.
What I've already done is I have broken the nipple off of the pipe going from the pump, and because it's glued in with plumbers glue, and there's no way I could, it's not threaded, it's all plastic.
So, I had to break the nipple off, it goes to the black roll pipe, black roll pipe is flexible, black pipe, as opposed to the stiffer colored PVC that I've got to work with today.
So, right now I'm just making sure that I know what I need, I've got a sample elbow, so I pretty much know what size of fitting I'm going to need.
So, right now I'm getting ready to drive to town, and go to the supply store, and pick up the parts that I need.
And it's only about, you know, 96, 98 degrees outside today, it's not as bad as it was a couple weeks ago when it was 105 degrees, not including the heat and disease, the heat index, and so I'm getting ready to go to town.
So, that's all the project that I'm listening to, we're participating.
Paul.com here, and I'm on the iPod, and I will have some vacation last week.
Listen to the show, and I will happen to the security industry back when I get to beat down the car store.
Ready?
You want to go out and drive to town now?
No, I'm not.
It's a hard drive.
Is that?
I want to go out and drive.
Probably about 45 people at 70, 45, I'm not sure.
It gets a little high sometimes.
It doesn't act right, just sometimes it doesn't shut off, but I can do it.
I can do it as well.
Yeah, I can do it as well.
You know, at least 45 people are driving.
That's what the switches are saying.
45 people are driving.
45 people are driving here.
24 people are driving here.
45 people are driving here.
Where are you going?
Where are you going?
Where are you going?
Yeah, I don't know how to put together.
What's your problem?
I think I'm going to have to go to the party.
I've got a white PDC in the house.
I don't know if I can bring this piece off.
Bring it up and try it on my side.
What else can we do?
I don't know.
You're worthless.
Is it in the equipment or is it in the PDC pipe?
It goes from the door to the elbow.
Then it goes down to a piece.
It's in here and it goes back up to a piece.
It's actually the right door.
Nice.
And then, if it goes to something like that.
Just, uh, wind what do you do?
Just gotta build a base here.
You're ready to keep your seat fit.
If anyone has had something running,
and a piece of wind up to the other one goes up
to a piece in here.
It goes up to a piece.
1 liters of 10 size up the door.
And, you know, to be safe.
I gotta take something to do here.
Yeah.
You're a pretty missed, because whatever we got with it was worth it.
It's still got a bit inside, but it's not that I have it.
You have to get out too.
That's going to be bad.
Got it rough, because there's no way out there.
Get that to stay in there.
It's not the first.
I know it went well to get something done not doing anything well.
You don't know.
You can't say I have 20 steps left because of you.
Keep going, don't worry about what I've been doing.
We have an hour and hour and a half today.
That's on the Escort Tire.
I've got a couple of categories to get stuffed together.
Maybe you may spend this a lot of gold,
You can see for the pressure back, the shoulders, the ultimate, for the pressure, you've got to pay me, say, yeah, but you can see it okay now.
Take it out of there, I can see you guys later, I don't have to do it.
Okay, as you just heard, that was a complete failure.
Spend the last 15 minutes in the supply store here and nothing.
So now I've got to go pick up my, uh, all my dad's truck.
So I'm going to do that. I just noticed I've got a, well, I noticed earlier that there was a spider.
Made a web in my pads and just see it in my car overnight.
And, uh, you know, I figured 70, 75 miles an hour would have, uh, stepped his little ass right at the window.
But, you know, that spider web's pretty, um, pretty tough stuff and he's still kicking it over here in there.
And the pads and your seat, I had to fuck them up a little bit because he was put web over to the iPod there.
I went to grab the iPod and kind of plucked everything up for him.
But, anyway, that's it for now. I guess I'm going to get the truck.
So, 115 and I've got, you know, no water at the house.
And I've got a few hours before I have to get ready for my job.
So, um, and it's in a good 45 minute drive to and from the auto park store.
And I bought a bunch to open to the, uh, nearest other supply stores.
So, that's an hour and a half drive, um, which we put me back at the house at quarter to three.
So, I think I have to leave it for work before I sew it.
And I get this done and I have to get it done.
Yeah, you heard it coming out.
What do I do for you?
Well, you get a lot of things going on here and there and there.
Okay, you have to do one that.
Straighter is it an elbow or?
Yeah, but it's a straight piece of bread.
But like this?
That's as you've got.
Yeah.
What did this break?
Actually, it broke off in something that was actually two things.
There's one more thing like a hex down.
That's a little bit here.
What is that?
There's white PVC elbow.
What you'll be here.
Yeah, this is what's coming off of the, um, this is what's coming off the well.
So, I need something that's moving around like this.
It's going to fit in here.
I'm also going to lift this down to that side.
Okay.
Now, here's this bit here.
Now I need something that's going to, I can glue this in.
Yeah, I need something I can glue in here that's going to be the...
I don't have a car going though, I don't think.
I think we're going to have to glue something in there.
Because this will screw on too.
No, that's kind of...
No, just a little bit like that.
What we don't have to do is, uh...
This is going to be kind of complicated.
Because we use it two different types of...
Well, the one that was on there was kind of a nylon feel.
It was white and nylon.
Yeah.
It's always there.
But what do you got in here?
That's just a couple of different things.
It's like a white nylon feel.
Yeah, like something like that.
It's going to be like screwing...
But now that she mentioned it, there's a piece of this...
Um, great pipe that's smooth as we can glue that in.
Maybe she's here something for her, right?
I didn't see that.
But I don't see any of that.
That's not a car.
Alright, this is nylon.
It's the same size.
It looks like it's robbed.
And the other two are...
This is really into that.
Sure will.
This is he is.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Fantastic.
Alright, so this should be the last segment of this episode of this old hack.
What you've missed off the air was me cutting the old elbow off of the...
previous...
cutting the previous elbow off of the pipe and trimming down the existing black roll pipe.
And now...
And I used a device called the pipe cutter, which is...
It's like a demented C-clamp.
It clamps on.
The same method as a C-clamp.
Only it's got a roller.
It's got two rollers and a cutting disc.
And you apply pressure.
C-clamp fashion.
And the rollers...
I help it keep a track around the edge.
While the cutting disc, of course, cuts into the plastic pipe there.
And I think it's possible to use it on metal pipe.
I don't know.
I've not tried that yet.
And now I'm just tightening up this little clamp on the PVC there on the roll pipe.
And that should be it now.
I had to get parts of the part at the hardware store and I got some glue.
I think you guys heard all that.
And...
So...
The part you missed was the...
Glueing, which we glued it to.
You apply liberally...
The purple stuff, which is the cleaner primer for 15 seconds.
And then...
And a moment later, you apply the cement and stick it all together.
And...
I'll update on whether or not this is successful.
It's supposed to sit for 24 to 48 hours.
But...
We really can't go with no water for that long.
So we're going to try to do it in 12 hours since it's real hot and see what happens.
At least if it does mess up on what I need to get...
What I'm going to do tonight is I'm going to make a didgeridoo.
First I've got to go find the stuff to make the didgeridoo.
So...
Dark out.
I've got one of those flashlights that you have to shake up to make work.
And I can just turn it on before I go walking around.
Instead of shaking it and walking around in the dark.
But I actually don't know how well this is going to work because...
I've seen it done with campfires.
I have never...
I've seen it done with campfires in...
I've seen it done with...
Torches or...
But I have never used a torch.
And I've never made a didgeridoo before, but...
There's the first time for everything and what's the worst that could happen?
I could blow some shit up.
Something you know.
Okay, I've got my torch here and a bottle of gas.
Let's see.
It's dark, so of course.
Let's see what the label says.
Oh, the label fell off.
So actually, it sounds like there's stuff in there.
So I actually don't know.
It's some kind of torch compound that people normally use for...
soldering joints on pipes.
And such.
Speaking of pipes, I've got my pipe cutter here,
which probably would have been faster for me just to grab it.
That's awesome.
I don't really care if it's a flush cutter nut.
All I want is...
I'm fucking chunk of pipe.
I have a hexal handy.
And now I know I saw some pipes over here.
And the woods, earlier than day, that was going to be perfect.
At least I thought it was going to be perfect.
And...
A, I need a better light.
My mag light died.
And I'm waiting until I can afford to get one of those LED mag lights.
Now my dog thinks I'm going to attack her.
I'm going to get attacked here.
And my own dog, obviously.
Not a good thing.
It's great, you guys.
All right.
Well, this will cut me off a good chunk of this stuff.
Yeah, that was a lot quicker than using the pipe cutter.
Which is great for metal pipe because you can't just saw right through metal pipe.
Now, against my better judgment, I'm going to smoke cigarettes, consume alcohol,
and play with a blowtorch.
And a large piece of glass to cover and check the insides.
I'm telling you what, I'm going to live in inside of it.
I'm going to take in some kind of gillian space, creatures inside of the house.
I can't see through the goddamn thing.
Okay, well, and what?
It'd better just be okay.
I'm going to get all my shit together here.
Here it is.
Got my stuff together.
The first thing I want to do is crack a beer.
Take a shot.
And see if I can't refine my lighter.
And I'm going to go test to see if I can even make this blowtorch machine.
I don't know if there's any kind of safety precautions.
I'm supposed to be taken here.
I'll never handle this stuff before.
I'm going to empty bottle there.
I'm just going to chuck that out the back door.
I've got what could possibly be.
A full bottle of gas here.
And I'm going to attempt to attach it.
Here, let's see.
Well, it does in fact have gas in it.
Now, I'm going to turn it into gas on and attempt to light it with a lighter and see what happens.
Okay, well, I have no torch action.
Good, actually.
Now that's going to be established.
I'm going to go take my oversized length of roll pipe, which roll pipe is.
I don't think I explained it in the show.
Roll pipe is like black PVC tubing that obviously comes on a roll instead of in lengths.
So I'm going to turn the shower on here because it's dark.
I don't know if I'm working out in the yard.
And I'm just going to light the mud off of this piece of pipe.
I'm just going to sit him out in the ground, on the ground, for diagnosed how long.
There was some rush.
There was some water through it.
Make sure there's no clearers living inside.
Before I go doing anything weird to it because I'm going to be putting my metal on one end of it.
And I'm going to be putting a torch torch to the other end of it.
And now I'm not smoking the world's second biggest bomb here.
But that's part of the process.
Finding these are good.
And so in order to make it custom, make it sound right.
I will definitely not want some kind of larger magnets crawling up my throat.
Well, welcome this day.
If I was a good drunk, I'd have 40 bottle sitting around somewhere.
And I would use a 40 bottle for my next step.
But I don't have any 40 sitting around here.
So I'm going to try to use this lemon juice bottle.
Now what I'm going to do with the lemon juice bottle is pick an end of the tube.
This would actually sound better if I had a bigger piece of larger diameter piece of tubing.
But since I don't, then I'm not just working with what I've got.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to heat one end of the pipe with the blow torch.
And I'm going to slide it over the top of the bottle and create a bell shaped end to make the sound better.
So lighting up the torch line here.
Okay, here we go.
I'm doing kind of spinning the pipe around, heating it as I go.
I'm going to try not to catch it on fire.
Oh, shit.
Oh, shit.
Come to happen.
Oh, god damn it.
Well, two mistakes so far.
First mistake is I was twisting the tube counterclockwise and I managed to unscrew the cat to the lemon juice.
And now it is firmly lodged inside the tube.
I'll try to extract the cap.
Reattach it in from that one I will be turning the tube clockwise.
Second mistake was overheating the plastic.
And setting it on fire and pushing too hard too fast.
If I was a good drunk I'd have 40 bottle sitting around somewhere and I would use a 40 bottle for my next step.
But I don't have any 40 sitting around here.
So I'm going to try to use this lemon juice bottle.
Now what I'm going to do with the lemon juice bottle is pick an end of the tube.
This would actually sound better if I had a bigger piece of larger diameter piece of tubing.
But since I don't then I'm going to just work with what I've got.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to heat one end of the pipe with the blow torch.
And I'm going to slide it over the top of the bottle and create a bell shaped end to make the sound better.
So I'm lighting up the torch line here.
Okay here we go.
I'm going to kind of spinning the pipe around, heating it as I go.
Try not to catch it on fire.
Oh shit.
Oh my god.
Come to happen.
Oh god damn it.
Oh god damn it.
Well two mistakes so far.
First mistake is I was twisting the tube counterclockwise and I managed to unscrew the cat to the lemon juice.
And now it is firmly lodged inside the tube.
I'll try to extract the cap.
Reattach it in for now and I will be turning the tube clockwise.
Second mistake was by overheating the plastic and setting it on fire.
And pushing too hard too fast.
That is the learning experience so far.
I'm going to try working with the other end now since I just cut the first end that I was working with.
I'll just cut it off and start over.
That's where I cut it off an extra long piece.
Since I've never done this before then I will see if it works.
Oh and the knob is working off of the bottle.
Okay the bottle has come on fire and I'm throwing it outside because something just doesn't seem safe about that.
I think this concludes the homemade didgeridoo portion of this old hack.
I will be throwing away the bottle of lemon juice because I think it has past its expiration date.
I will be throwing the piece of rope out of the back door until I can get a new torch nozzle that I did not just kind of find.
Luckily I did not blow my testicles off and y'all hold my beer and watch this.
Thank you for listening to Hack with Public Radio.
HBR is sponsored by Hero.net so head on over to C-A-R-O-DOT-E-C for all those in the world.
Thank you for watching.
