Episode: 322
Title: HPR0322: EC Lug Feb 19th Meeting
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0322/hpr0322.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 16:28:02

---

song of towels
music
with
music
Oh, I'm off of the district of the user group.
Oh, clearly, the user group shall I say?
The idea is, what is the date?
19.
Thursday.
Thursday.
Ooh, what a surprise.
19th of February, 2009.
How are we doing?
It's awesome.
Finally, we got projector running.
So, I guess we can start.
Shall we go around the block?
Sure.
Let's start.
Let's see what I do this week.
I was fully around the doubling latest NVIDIA backstriber or whatever.
And I got a question.
I downloaded this big file from NVIDIA.
And then, for some reason, it wants to compile this new driver for access like version 177 or something.
What is it doing?
Why is it, what am I compiling?
Then there's some module that they want to stick in there too.
And I don't know why I work yet.
I just wonder what's going on.
It's a module.
It's enabling the direct 3D acceleration from the car in Linux, which requires a specific module to be inserted into the kernel.
That's the module that you're seeing.
And it has to compile it because you're downloading the source code, not the pre-compiled version.
They've got kind of their own module work or the kernel, like plug in for the kernel.
It's the traditional one.
Yeah, that gives you direct access in the video card.
Without that, you don't have direct access from the kernel to the video card.
And you can't access all of those specialty things that make the NVIDIA driver work properly.
A module in the kernel is a lot like a driver in Windows for hardware devices.
Okay, good way to think of it.
Except you're not downloading, it's not like a pre-compiled 32bit.exe file.
You're downloading it in Windows.
That's just a package file.
It's actually your file in the source code.
And it's a different kind of structure, but it has a lot of advantages from a progress perspective
because then you can look at the code and then you can tweak it and try to do hardware acceleration on the device.
And the real thing.
It's the only way to have direct access to the car itself.
You can't run it forever.
You can't get direct access from the processor to the video card.
Is that from the computer?
It's a software to the video card.
Yeah, but you can only do that in a kernel, right?
Yeah, the kernel locks everything down.
Because if you've got access to the hardware, you can just block up the machine.
So the kernel limits their all interface to the hardware needs to go through the kernel.
And they need extra things, extra access to their hardware that isn't built into the kernel.
So they need to have this module to give that extra access.
Okay.
And then it's being compiled for what reason?
I can't just give you a freeze because it's compiled or it's because everybody computers a little bit.
Because the kernel changes.
In Windows, the exact same thing is going on in Windows except Windows never changes the kernel.
Oh, they're kernel.
You can make a freeze file version of it.
Yes.
Okay.
And when you download it from like the repositories, that's what you're getting.
You're getting a premade version.
Okay.
What?
I do too.
All right.
So that's where I got that far.
I didn't quite work.
So if I've said at least $1 and $1, I'll just come here and ask this question.
It's almost loose.
If you might run through something I ran, you can do it with hot probe and depth mod.
And then I had to always, I was using myth or myth TV.
I wanted to use the wireless card.
But my wireless used to be always had to run mod probe and depth mod.
And just every time I never dissapeared it into them.
So to get it set up, we turned it on.
Yeah.
We had to get it as a run through all those stuff again.
Wait, you're running in the strip.
You run the mod probe.
It doesn't really set up anything.
It just loads the module and it's done.
And the modules are supposed to have in them code that says what hardware they work on.
And when the kernel builds through, it's supposed to go through and look for modules and match the hardware.
So it's supposed to automatically load them.
But that depends on the configuration of the kernel load.
What he's talking about is when you load a module into the kernel, it's on a session basis only.
So when you reboot, you're resetting to a new session.
Right.
So we'll have to add it to.
It's like, you have to add it to it.
It's like atcmodules.orlog.de or something.
If there's a specific directory and then there's a like a config file and you have to add the name of the module in there.
And then automatically load it on boots.
But because it was in the S wrapper, was it?
Is that going to be clear?
Whatever module you're specifically looking for.
Whether it's a module for a video card or atcmodules.orlog.de or something like that.
You'll be able to find the directory.
I don't remember.
Were you able to get to the point where you actually had it compiled?
Or it's setting code.
It ran and I can't remember.
There's an error that comes up in the XOR file.
It might be that there's a conflicting module installed too.
A lot of times, well, you were probably in X at the time.
And there's probably another module that's talking about XOR.
You might close X because they told you that.
There still might be another module in memory at the time.
It might not be used.
So you might have to do a RM Mod or Mod Pro dash dash remove and remove a module that has to do with your video card.
To remove that one first.
Anything else that didn't happen in your life this week?
Hey, we're talking Linux.
I'm sorry if we're not getting over to your beer stuff.
Well, I sort of want to get over it.
I'm sorry if you didn't run into the fact that every time you move something normally,
it makes it infidivariate for everyone.
I have to be able to be smart enough to know that there's a solid way to do every day thing they're doing.
Anyway, all right.
Let's move on.
What else?
No, that was for your stuff.
That's all the extent of what I did.
My guess is there's a lot of people.
It just needs to be unloaded.
All right.
Pass.
I already did mine half an hour.
I overheated.
I wasn't here.
Well, you know what I was talking about?
What was that called?
XFCE.
It was a boom too.
I got a pain in 3866.
Now I was ripping with DVD.
Oh, you were open sourcing your stuff.
I was open sourcing.
Well, yeah.
Back in the month.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
So I was trying to get them to play my popcorn over.
So, and I noticed that it looked better.
Instead of playing it from a DVD player,
that it looked better if I, you know, ripped it and made coded it.
I was saying it took like 40 hours to do one.
And depending on the length, it will be it.
But one was longer than 40 hours.
Well, yeah.
It might be better if you rip it out.
Actually, it worked.
You know, you might have better servers there.
So you think it looked better because it was digital or...
I don't know.
Well, because the DVD player does 40...
Right.
Okay.
And it's only a DVD.
But it looks like it almost...
How did you have your DVD connected?
Well, it's an S video cable.
It's an S video cable.
Yeah.
I mean, it's a software cable.
$30 DVD.
Right.
So...
That's a CD.
And it's looking better.
And then you're playing it through the popcorn hour.
How is that connected?
Oh, you see mine.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, I don't like that, I think.
You might find it...
Actually, that does make a difference.
Like, on my projector, I've got a DBI cable and a VGA cable.
And the VGA cable, you can actually see the difference.
It's lower quality because it's an analog signal going from the computer to the projector.
I always thought it was like 40i, 40i, and didn't matter.
A digital 40i will look better than analog 40i.
Because there's no degradation at all.
Whereas the analog you'll get.
Do you have any digital DVPers that are up-converged?
I guess they say G1 or whatever?
Yeah, almost something like that was...
That, you know, the handbrake is almost doing that when it was putting it in.
It could be doing the i2.
So it doesn't look...
Right.
And that will look crisper, too, because then you can get that under digital.
I don't think that's correct, because then you don't even need to buy Blu-ray.
And then you have to spend your $30 USD DVD.
I don't think that's correct.
Well, I have to buy everybody, so I don't need to buy Blu-ray.
The whole concept of Blu-ray is still a little bit of a farce.
I mean, if you get DVD players that can up-converge to the full resolution of, like, 1080p,
then really, you know, okay, so maybe a little bit of color depth might be the difference or whatever,
but really is a little bit of color depth difference.
Unless you have a really-
Unless you have a really-
Unless you have a big screen, and you say close to it, you're not going to notice it.
Well, it is the same argument as what was we and PS3.
You know, everybody was saying, oh no, but it will buy.
We, because it's such a low resolution.
It's about to look ugly.
And PS3, everybody's meant to buy because it's gorgeous.
And it came down to the content.
And if you have a content, if you don't have a content and it looks beautiful, guess what?
You don't have a content.
If you have a content, it looks ugly.
But people want to have a content.
That's all.
Yeah.
And price.
PS3, you know, is like 20.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cool.
And the XFCE, if anybody has a chance to use Ubuntu, it's just awesome.
I'm older hardware.
It's just-
Yeah.
It's just so fast.
Just a little bit of a problem to double around, you know, XFCE.
It's just a little bit different.
It's another problem of XFCE.
It's a problem of getting used.
Cool.
How are you?
I think it's too exciting.
You-
You don't compile XOR because I'm a driver of now.
Sorry about that.
I made a simple windows for my career card.
It's fast.
Except some of the next database servers.
You guys want this over here?
50 years?
60 years for Android.
You know?
2, 3, 8, 8.
Cool.
Great.
How about you?
How about you?
What did you want to say?
I think I've been working on something for work.
It's actually, you know, not really, you know, release.
Cool.
Sure.
I haven't really, you know, extended right now on a virtual machine.
It's a track.
Yeah.
It's a track.
That's where you're trying to be software and a GPS antenna.
And we're trying to sell it to you.
Share us departments.
Basically.
That's a GPS.
Track the receiver right there.
Yeah.
It's a USB GPS.
We're a GPS antenna.
And then it comes with a tracking software that will track all of the early.
You are very intended.
Does it do like a lot at this time, at this location?
Yeah.
You have been a lot of locations.
You can get the screen and kind of the night night with people's cars basically like a project.
So it's to keep an eye on all the cars and the fleet.
Or it seems like you've been honored.
Like if you had a warranty thing.
Low checks of these guys and followers.
Or this is what you can do.
Actually, if you are the working for shares department, you can actually use it at Twitter where you are.
Actually, this could Twitter for you.
Yeah.
You can keep track your ex-wife.
Oh, obviously.
Yeah.
How does that communicate back?
There's a location forward, amplification that shows your location to your오 casual server.
Then you just need to be connected somewhere.
Yeah.
So those rules that information the cellular datode, what, okay?
Well, you can use cellular, you can use two-way radio, satellite, and it's a big, big, big one.
So how big is this thing you put on the car?
Well, it has to, I was the battery in the car.
Where do you put the thing on the roof or what?
On this, this, you can mount, basically anywhere on the side of the car.
I think you were sitting side of the car.
Yeah, probably.
That's actually, did you put this one in?
Yeah, but what about the rest of the thing that transfers over to the cell?
That's usually mounted in the trunk.
Oh, okay, so this isn't just something that's magnetically stick on the roof?
There is, the car is worn.
Or the rest?
It just sticks under the car.
There's one right here through the car right now.
It's going to be the entire roof.
It's going to be the whole roof.
Right.
It's going to be the whole roof.
It's going to be the whole roof.
It's going to be the whole roof.
Cool.
Anything else?
Any other fun?
Not so much.
We're not over time.
Drinking some fun beers?
Some extra beer, really.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks a lot.
Cool.
Well, I didn't do too much.
But I, I managed to, it's got a set of story.
And my wife was actually buying.
At room work, they actually put a collection together.
And they did not want it to buy somebody.
El Trapporda will opt out.
And so I steer her to Del website.
And as we see, this one is, this one is main page of Del.
And when you go to El Trapporda,
you guys can look at operating systems out there on the same page.
Generally when you go to El Trapporda,
yeah, on the same page, side by side.
And if you look customized with the boot too,
they were the nice egg.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Two bottom options.
It's $249.299.
That's not bad.
That's the first one.
So there's a price.
$250 is compared to $300.
Yep.
And actually, I managed to,
to persuade her to buy one too.
Just for the purpose that notebooks,
that notebooks are not really, you know,
those are just a communication devices.
Most likely.
So I said, that's what computer do.
And I think what would you do on the other operating system?
She said, yeah.
So I said, well, you still have a benefit of not having a viruses.
And I guess there it is.
Well, we got the one and the third column.
It says customize with XP.
What does that mean?
Customize a laptop.
Detail.
It's like that.
Like that.
More random stuff like that.
Just, you're looking at the wrong column.
That's all I can tell you.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
It's awesome.
It's awesome.
As well as that, that there is a mini 12.
So that one is mini nine, nine inch screen.
And so it's 12 inch.
And this one is, is the same thing.
Actually, one tube and windows, designed by side.
So laptop.
Spurted out a small root to the size of a desktop.
And now they're shrinking right now.
Did the other ones.
Actually, I started it.
Do you know if they drop a device?
I do.
I have no idea.
So that's what you've just got is.
I took it up from there.
It was 17.
The whole desk.
I was like, you go this way.
Well, I've got it.
So it's massive.
Yeah.
So I just, you know, it was just nice that you actually don't.
People don't have to hunt the tank wherever it is.
And so you actually can go there on the same page.
Like anybody else is fine.
You can actually have it set by side.
It is, it is not on an XPS yet.
What one just tidbit.
If you ever do buy a laptop from the other one,
like I got this one from Dell's before they were offered.
I don't want to, or maybe it was, but they didn't have it on this one.
If you actually call up or talk to them,
you can get it without windows.
It'll go like a dot, CV or something.
And you say, what is it?
Like $100.
So if you're just a little excited.
To just avoid the operating system.
Yeah, they don't give you windows license with it.
The windows can free us.
Yeah.
Yeah, you free us.
But you say it, you know, almost $100.
It goes to $70.
They're bigger savings when you go for a distribution.
You know, like non-vista.
Oh.
Right.
I don't know what they can do.
Because of the old bundled software.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Well, I've seen that word.
It says that we put the XP on that for $100.
It depends on if you count for painting software.
That's true.
We've been in suffering all the time.
I mean, that's a good five, six hours of unconfiguring.
Unconfiguring.
Because I know the Microsoft agreement with
vendors like that is that if the customer does not want the
Microsoft license, they must give them a review.
Or a refund.
They need a force to do that.
But along with that, they also say that they're not
able to divulge how much their data is going to be.
They're not able to do that.
They just need to be able to do that.
But as far as I know, the Microsoft agreement with vendors
like that is that if the customer does not want the
Microsoft license, they must give them a review.
divulge how much their window license is actually cost them. So in most cases it's
not costing Della as much for the window's license as you're getting the refund
for. So they're actually biting down some of it, you know. So I just mileage me
Rick and I bear. I just thought it was you know very nice move for your
positive move and yeah probably is that the first time ever that something I mean
that scale the first time ever happened the first time ever I saw it the side by side.
Yes, yes, so it's great. I think yeah and I didn't use water. There was some
actually I there was some interesting article in this water, but it's interesting
stuff in here. Yeah. And then yes I grew to be here. So I just say that
this is one of the backburner and I grew to be just bohemian coaster and we
should see how bohemian we are going to be. I knew it. Do you want to do it? Absolutely
well the second week you know I had a urge and that's all I have to do.
I in the last half an hour so yeah boxy working all sweet yeah with streaming
networks. So this is moving next Nicholas Cage. You have an Netflix account? Yeah I
signed up for one just so you're actually right now renting a Netflix movie right
so boxy. Right with boxy. So this is on always 10 boxy or links. Yes. So I have a
download boxy. What's boxy? Just like a video. Yeah it's like a DVR functionality except
where it's way more versatile because you can do video from video later. Okay. Yeah there's
like by defaults with the source of it. You can see with your friends that watch you can
do it. So you can like this is all the streaming video sources. Yeah there's BBC, CVS,
CNN, Comedy Central, Pulu, Netflix, MySpace, MyFeed, Revision3 if you're like a big nation band.
The big grill is the best. Does this work with the delivered juice? I don't know I'm trying
that one. So that's all from boxy. The boxy provides the interface. All the sources that
you write. All that stuff. Right? It's just bringing it all together. This is like a fancy
interface to stream content. It's like a competition. It's like a real killer. I could find
like a real cheap like Mac mini or something like that. The Mac mini is like 8 inches by 8 inches
by 3 inches. It's a tiny little form factor machine. I'm used like boxy to hook it up. It's got a
DBI connection on it and then put that up to like a big screen TV. That's the long-term
volume. So it's like a mini monitor. Right. Boxy also plays X-Bid, DIVX, you know, H-N-2-6-4,
but any form of codec that you can through it, as well as all of your music and everything.
How far does it now? From your iTunes accounts. So like, you know, I thought I had a screen on it or
it was just a box. It is free or it is free. It is free. Yes, but it is. You have to sign out
a little bit. When I signed out, it took probably three or four weeks for me actually to get the
email for the login. Because what they said is it's been enormously popular and I want to just
get it. I think that they opened it already that it used to be that you had to wait for it like
for a period. I signed up a while ago and it was instant. Was it a couple of weeks?
It's Boxy that C-V-E-O-I-C-E. So that remote is part of your computer? Yeah.
Came with the computer? Yeah. Well, you know, you know, it was saying about B-C, but this would be
like in front of the B-C-V-S. It's not a good thing. It's like it's another interface from
B-C. So instead of running your own server that does on the TV, this just goes onto the internet.
Yeah, that's the other good thing. The TV is a source of KVTU. I think that it could go
mostly if you want to have your own server, but actually pass whatever is in your server. Yeah,
that's the other thing too. I have a one-terabytes RAV5 server at home that has a bunch of
perfectly legal backed-up copies of DVDs that I hope is worth. Yes, I hope it's worth. Yes,
and then what you can do in the settings of Boxy is you can set it up to add certain other media
sources. So then like if it's a network source, you can add it as like a summer share or an
NFL share or something like that. And then, you know, you can watch your library at once
interface. So you've got your front end, which is the box, it just plays it from whatever source,
and then you've got the back end, which is the storage. What are the requirements on that,
could I have an 8366? Oh, look at those graphics, I'm just saying no. I have a bad news to you.
It's written in Python. She's like Python. Really? It's not that he gets like Python, it doesn't
like have some programs that are written. Because Python is the new millennium. It's the BB of the
new millennium. It allows people who shouldn't program to write programs. It doesn't force
to watch people for instance. It's like one of the best languages in my opinion are right now.
It's great, but at the other time, it allows it could be abused. Yeah, absolutely.
Hey, so many programs that just either just kind of go away. Well, that's like the all the same
future at the store right after that. Isn't that built in by the model? Even model drives me nuts
to some degree. You know, when you have to go to the command line to start a program to figure out
what went wrong and somebody didn't quote it right and actually actually that was a
Fedora packaging issue or banjo that forced me to pay that. At least you can go to the command line.
On my windows, you type in a command there and it crashes
too bad. You know what? I haven't used to you. There is a model, they go 2.0 beta.
Did it have a debugger? I don't know. I was a beta doesn't release the full release will.
That's the thing. Their beta doesn't have working debugger. But one point zero didn't have working
debugger, but did it? Yes, it did. Everything has working debugger except for 2.0 beta. That's
the only version that doesn't. Of course, I guess it's supposed to be running beta.
Challenge is supposed to be running beta like that.
Question of course.
That Google and Netflix are coming to the install.
The link to the web site was there. You have to log in there.
Do you need to have a son or two? You don't have to, but it's for like reading our content,
you have to log in. Which is free. It's zero.
So if you're worth it, you have an appointment. You know, you've got it.
Or if you want to watch Family Guy. Family's graphic.
That's a terrible show.
You need to leave.
Yes, then.
That's actually $1,000 worth over.
You know, it's only $1,000.
And here's the cool thing.
It works on every apple just straight out.
Yeah, his will go to front end to not front end. What's the apple?
Trying to think.
Maybe just set it up front.
Front. Old. Front.
There's an apple interface that has similar DVR functionality,
except it just looks at your I photo photos and you're like,
I've never been in the Elijah.
The same.
So you are like Elijah from Rome.
That was like mid-front.
Yeah, it's the same.
It looks like they just like changed the.
Yeah, just pretty good thing.
And that's it.
There's the theme of what's identical when it comes to,
which would be nice to do straight inside of the 360s.
I like the Apple solution pretty well.
Apple TV is the TV.
Yeah, that version.
Which plays out to 720p.
And you can write 720p movies directly on your device.
Oh, the Apple TV does 720p now.
And I was in.
Oh, I thought it did 480.
Cool. Thank you.
How's the new battery doing?
Pretty good.
All right, babies.
Well, we're two weeks old now.
Another remote control in the house.
You just need to trade it.
That's the remote control.
Yeah, and this is number three.
So we have two diaper remote control right now.
Throw it away.
Throw it away.
Throw that?
Yes.
No, we're all doing pretty well.
Mom's not getting a whole lot of sleep,
but I managed to sneak in.
I'll work here there.
So she's not watching.
So we see dedication.
I'm going to have a case of beer for me.
All right.
So other than that, I've been watching the beta release
of the Eureka back up here.
I have designs to go in and actually write.
The CIF as a Samba share plug-in for the program
because I'm getting sick of packing my own scripts together.
There's a lot of shares to be back up to.
I'm so addicted to the program.
I love Eureka.
I love Eureka.
Eureka?
It's Eureka back up.
It's a backup utility written in Java
that can't be figured in from at all
and differential backups and recoveries.
I think it's really slick.
You can get it pretty complicated.
It doesn't have auto safety.
Sorry, it's Java.
It's actually the tells you it's trashed.
From a Windows machine, you can just point to a share of it.
Java, you just throw a trash out of a server.
It's a client, but it's got built-in FTP support
and then mobile, right now, that's it.
I played around with setting an FTP server out there.
That's another thing.
You already need to write a...
I was reading around a little bit and the guy's got an API written.
You can essentially write a plug-in, create an XML file,
and it should show up in the interface.
It's used my new file system plug-in I wrote here,
so I'm messing around with that in a couple weeks here.
But it's releasing version 7,
which is some kind of huge memory management equipment.
It's talking about J-Craft.
Some of the codes are like a tablet or something.
I don't know what it was, but it was.
So is that even pizza?
Oh, I have to figure it out.
Yeah, so to mess with that.
And I guess the other thing was last yesterday
with the day before I found,
go through my emails that I hadn't been watching here.
Fluendo had sent me a notice.
I bought their codec pack almost a year ago.
And they now have pre-packaged codecs you can get from them.
Instead of, it used to be downloaded,
the C and pile there,
or the C plug-ins you actually had to move to the folder.
Plug-ins shop.
If you can get the free empty free ones there is a plug-in too.
But they've got them pre-compiled,
pre-packaged for Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, Suzy, and Riva,
and even Solaris.
They did have DVD,
are they more efficient or something?
They're basically just streamer codecs is what they are.
It's not that they're more efficient.
It's just that they're...
They don't hurt.
I don't know.
So you bought 32-bit.
Can you actually...
There is 64-bit.
I can download the 64-bit.
I was on the 32 without having to buy new ones yet.
So download it before your thing inspires?
If you go to their home page there,
the end user products,
they're announcing that it's a DVD player as well here.
They don't have a Dunham,
but they're saying it will be available to OEM as well as
just consumer level,
which is probably the first as far as I'm aware of.
I can delete my lib DVD.
Actually, it's not kind of fun to program it.
It's RPN file.
Yeah, right now, if you want, you know,
quote-unquote legal DVD playback,
the only way to get it is if you buy
all that's from Dell and maybe one or two.
I know Mandarita,
you can get it with and...
I don't want so many copies of PowerDB.
Yeah, so...
All you have to do is say,
you know, I got the software here.
You know, it is a kind of nice thing to see.
If it's easy to get,
easy to integrate, you know,
my guess is that more,
either Linux shops or distribution
that was hard integrating it.
Yeah, you guys can just get a bunch of money in and out.
You know,
we can see just how far we went.
You know, when we started to meet,
you know, two years ago, two and a half years ago,
you know, what we were talking about.
We were talking about
all maybe somebody will be selling hardware
with a Linux on.
Pretty much all the discussion.
You know, and right now, we are saying,
well, it would be nice if somebody would get me this application.
Yeah, I was pretty happy.
It's going to go through their site here to see these things on here.
So I have a...
Codex support on my Fedora VM at home now.
So I can play my MP3 files without the worry about it.
But, you know, I can put up a Solaris machine
and listen to my MP332, except for Solaris,
so it's kind of cool.
I should put a database server as a lot of people
have been talking to me.
Yeah, it's a...
Once it starts up,
ZFS takes a little bit to get that one,
but it's a...
Yeah, that's what that's the big stuff.
If it's a server, though, you're not rebooting it.
Yeah, it's ZFS.
Well, you know, but it's still...
It's still like snapshots or snapshots.
They've actually got some nice tools
and was it 2008.11
for managing some of the ZSF stuff
and really used it to manage them.
But they actually built some gooey interfaces
to do some of those ZFS things instead of the...
That's really what the new file system
and Butterf.
Butterf is facing itself off with this ZFS.
Cool.
If some would just open source their stuff,
they'd probably do a lot better.
Very nice.
The source Java, what do you want?
They like to shoot themselves, the foot over and over
again before they finally give up and say,
all right, now they just say,
all right, there's no more space left on my foot, I guess.
Everybody's circumvented as anyways.
Here you go, now let's open source ZFS.
Yeah, when you were old to this,
I was like, they see it as giving up.
It's like, all right, it's fine.
Well, that's kind of with the OpenJDK, you know.
Yeah, they had their...
They wouldn't get it for free and use it,
but they had their restrictions on it.
Eventually, people just start to work around it
and then they're like, oh no, you can have it.
They were to the point where they had a working
completely free version.
And Sun went, oh, that's not good.
Because the free version,
you can actually compile the native code, too.
You just actually need the JVM at all.
It was compiled into the program.
You can always get the job source code, all right.
There's parts that you can't.
Yeah, I don't know if I can get the source code,
I don't think it was OpenSource.
There's certain things that you can always get it.
There are still a few things that you go
down the source.
What they're doing is they're replacing those pieces
with the pieces from the OpenJDK.
OpenJDK versions.
There's some of them.
I don't know if I can tell the whole
of every single transfer.
So actually, is T a thing in the front of it?
Yeah, that's the free version.
Oh, it's the solitude drive.
This is nine, but if I picked the XP and I say customize it
with Ubuntu, it actually kept the instance
saving also $155.
And I was able to offer my memory by my hard drive.
So for four bucks, you can go laptop with them,
sell state.
So you gig for $64 gig, sell state for another $50 bucks.
Yeah, that's, wow, that's, that's actually a pretty
business.
Usually, don't see a draw in it.
An eight gig solid state driver costs
$400.
Well, and $94.
Well, those first EPCs, they came with a foregain
and that A-G-A was like like big boost.
Man, strip police got $20, $16.
Yeah, that was, that was that, that was, that was,
that was, yeah.
Apple's Markfax or Silent State Drivers.
Or, they're super, super expensive.
That's, that's Apple for you.
Yeah.
That comes with a wheel on them.
Oh, my gosh.
Let's see, I want fit number three.
Oh, we got a, okay plug in, yeah.
Do you guys need to have hope of exteriority?
We need to have tech Kyle.
I've got a lot.
Oh, so in, on to Python here before, I think conduit.
It's offered in Python, luckily.
See, while you love conduit.
I like the idea of conduit.
I just can't get to work.
You know, it doesn't actually throw any error messages
or anything, it just kind of sits there.
Well, I don't think it tracks it.
A lot of work.
It's a synchronization program.
And it's actually pretty slick because you,
it's a, it has different end points and source points.
And you just, like, either forward and they've got built-in plug-ins
for like your F spotter Picasso pictures
or your tomboy notes.
You two bloggings that got,
if you've got a home.
Basically, our sync with a fancy interface.
Obviously, you drag your tomboy noise
into the, you know, synchronization area
and then you drag in like that work connection
and it just draws a line between them.
So it usually represents also things like just,
all connections between all these different programs
and devices.
Problem I'm having with it is on the Ubuntu site.
It seems to work on Fedora.
I cannot get it to recognize
a network shared synchronization.
So essentially what you do is I'm trying to synchronize
a photo of site drag,
but photos into the, the work area
and drag the network connection into it.
I'll push that synchronization as a,
a Vahi, what do they call it?
The avahi, the zero-config browser.
It uses that to broadcast over the network.
The Ubuntu will see it, but another Fedora machine
will pick it up so they don't go through.
Do you have the service enabled?
This is zero-config service.
I didn't look at the service.
You might want to take a look and see if that's enabled
because otherwise that zero-config
might not even work.
Okay, so I know I have the zero-config package installed.
I don't know if the service is started up by default.
That might be, because it's broadcasting it.
I just can't pick it up so that might be something.
I'll look at that later.
So on Ubuntu I see it, but when I connect to it,
try to synchronize it or just have a system to do anything.
So I'm trying to figure out why it's not doing anything.
And it's still technically, you know, beta.
It's been around for a couple of years.
Yeah, I think it's really a beta.
Yeah, I would, I wouldn't say that.
I thought it was a beta.
You guys are too hard.
I think it's a beta terminal.
Why are you in Python, and you've got Perl?
Yeah, absolutely.
You need to get that.
Hold on, hold on, hold on.
It's the original Python, but you like Perl.
But I love it.
You know why?
Because nobody can read it.
Nobody can, I can't even read it.
Okay, so you don't get Perl with what you can read.
Perl.
Oh, okay.
You don't get complete beginners writing Perl programs, usually.
Okay, that's the last part of it.
I was going to say that's where I started.
Perl finished.
Yeah, that's what I have broken up.
So I had a couple of programs.
You were two ago I wrote in Perl, and if I open them now,
they're, I wouldn't understand.
They're all regular expressions.
All of you promised to do it down.
It's like equals till they slash.
What does this do?
I don't know, but it makes a 12-git file.
It's cool, but I just thought of something.
So I was like, what's the planet?
I think it parses the internet.
And tries to thank it out too.
Every duck.
You can do it with Perl.
I'm going to do a gag lesson.
I actually got my projector control to work
through the serial interface.
So I've got a serial cable running from my
myth box to the projector, and through software,
I'm able to fully control the projector.
So what I did was I went to the
alert configurations, the Linux infrared remote
something, I don't know what C stands for, and set it up
so that the power button on the myth box
remote will actually turn on the projector.
And then I set up all my other buttons, and then
I went into the myth main menu, and there are many systems
all XML-driven, and you can actually alter
what options are there just right in the XML.
So I modified the XML to have a projector off command.
So right from the main menu, I can just select projector off,
click on it, and everything closes down.
What that does is it completely gets rid of the projector
remote, and gives full control to the piece.
Turns out the problem I was having, why it didn't work for,
there were actually two problems, which is the reason why
it's difficult to troubleshoot.
First off, the serial ports on Linux.
Apparently, well, there's a maximum speed, and it's like,
115,200, that's like the maximum speed of the serial port.
But manufacturers wanted to go above that.
So what they did was they added a non-standard base speed
for the serial port, and then they used the divisor,
or devising to divide that base speed.
Now, normally, it assumes that it's set to 115,000,
but the base was actually set to this other number,
which wasn't a even a visor or divisor of the first number.
So I was getting not exactly 9,600 feet per quad,
I was getting like 7,000 quad, which is good enough.
So I reset the base speed, got that all working, and then I found out
that this stupid document that I had from Optima,
the maker of my projector, was the wrong spec sheet.
It said it was the right spec sheet, but it wasn't.
So I was standing at the wrong commands.
So I found another similar projector,
and all the menus were identical to the one I had,
whereas the other spec sheet, the menus were not identical.
So I tried that out, and I was able to do it.
So did you get $50 this amount of product?
I should have gotten a $50 discount,
because I probably worked on that thing for 8 to 10 hours, getting it to work.
Oh, fuck this.
But I got it, darn it.
Hello.
I was dedicated.
Well, the problem being that something goofs up the projector's remote.
Like, it reads some light somewhere,
I can't figure out what it is, and it disables the projector remote,
which is really annoying because the projector is on the ceiling.
Now, that's fine, except I'm moving, and the ceilings are vaulted.
So now,
yeah, I'm going to have to have the, you know, the alternate remote with the rubber finger.
If you want to have very, very sports like child, you know,
just on the shoulders,
just on the shoulder.
Hit the power, Johnny!
But anyway, now I got it so that it completely works through the PC,
and shouldn't need to remote it all.
You know, I think, okay, well, I wanted to suggest that I set my truth there.
What do you need it for, okay?
No, I'm good, thanks.
I appreciate the offer.
Cool.
Sounds like a plan.
Do we have any extra discussion, ready?
I'm going to give it whatever it wants to do with it.
So, tech TV gun, for the term TV?
Yes, it needs to be tech TV, and then, right now, it's the Leo guy.
With the Leo guy?
No, with the other guy, you know.
It used to be Patrick Norfolk, but he left.
Oh, yeah.
The classic TV gun.
Yeah, yeah, but it was actually technology show instead of the,
it is, it is technology show.
So, well, proper here.
The channel is proper here instead of,
I read some while I don't have time to watch the watch,
because I need to grow fear.
We all have priorities.
Yeah, in terms of, you know,
who cares?
Who cares?
It used to be Patrick Norfolk.
Yes.
Yeah, do you have any speed service?
Yeah.
I am Leo the port.
That was the other guy.
Yeah, the port.
Yeah, my body was bad.
I wasn't sure.
I thought of his podcast, yeah.
So, he's got a, like,
Leoville.
Yeah, Leoville.tv, I think it's his main URL,
but I mean, he's got,
this week in Tech and Matt Break Weekly,
and, you know, there's a Linux run,
and there's a Windows one.
It's a Twitch.
Twitch.tv is the main Twitch network.
They actually used to learn something
watching that show.
Yeah.
They used to,
and now it's for like the,
that blue loop commercial with Alan Baldwin.
That is, that's basically all I get out of G1.
Is that the one where he's like it?
And then what do you like to something?
I'm sure he's a brand of, yeah.
Yeah, I think that's super cool.
That's so bad.
Yeah, I, I, I thought,
I'm the weirdest way to promote something
as cool as blue loops.
All of us.
All of us.
All of us.
I mean, I think that's what it is.
I mean, him from the show where it's,
I can't see the show what's for me.
Okay, so I'm going to see those.
Yeah, with security management.
Security management.
Yeah, that's a lot of useful.
But then, then he's sort of,
the interesting,
it started to start a bit much,
and the security,
yeah, from the beginning,
it was a great option.
He will say, how does he be,
he's working,
can he was what he wanted to be,
to be friction and virtualization?
Well, you know, from,
it isn't a beginning,
but then it started to start to start to tell
whatever the way I can.
Not, I mean,
I don't care what the security is,
but he's just a huge stuff out of the court.
Do you know, like,
and whether or not,
jeez, I think he's awesome.
I think he's awesome.
I don't know.
Did he, did he buy a spin,
a spin right from it?
No.
Why, no.
Yeah, because that's,
oh, was he, but it is right now,
no, it's not.
Yeah, jeez.
He talks about it,
because he was minding,
you could show, but,
you know, he is,
through the show,
he's probably, he's a spin right.
Yeah.
It's a great way to hear the one,
really stupid.
Well, he's a great guy,
but he's better.
I've never seen the show,
like, he's probably being informative,
but like, he's had a lot of,
just been numerous situations,
where he's really,
which doesn't seem like a,
new stories,
where he's just really,
wrong.
And I can't get the word,
where he just makes some,
he's a real
travesty,
or something really bad,
and, you know,
he has come over.
Exactly.
Oh, yeah, that's,
that's a good idea.
And, you know, that's,
you know, from the beginning,
he was very good.
You know, he was,
he, he did know
what he was talking about,
and he knew how to say,
clear,
but then, you know, he had,
he had to show every week,
so you need to put a content there.
So what I'm going to do,
well, there's nothing new to do,
so we need to make something up.
Like that.
Let it start.
In this computer security circles,
he's kind of like a guy.
He's a joke.
Well, if you learn something from him,
yeah, I mean,
there's nothing wrong to do.
It's like wrong about certain things.
Yeah.
Hmm.
If you get belly out of him,
then is it,
you know, there's some,
it's just about,
was there some specific event?
Was he after something?
Well, the big thing was,
he made a big deal.
That room where it was brought,
uh, when it was xd,
he was coming out,
uh, that's part of raw stock,
it's important.
And right at the end of the world,
after we're just going to take over,
what knows,
and how it was made secure.
And it's not without worries,
but that was one of the big things.
But he stopped it.
He stopped it, you know,
we put his foot down and
he stopped it.
Everything is good.
World thing,
and what we,
and we are happy to be living again.
No, he does talk about that
both raw stock and people,
well,
the same.
Okay, let's,
we're on.
That's what we want.
Well,
the computer is down,
and then we'll,
what do we have in the forest?
We can't connect,
we can't do anything.
So who is going to start?
Start what?
Well,
the deck is the final.
Really?
Debian.
How do I use that crap?
Anybody use Debian?
Uh,
well,
everybody who's,
we want to take the lead,
uh,
uh,
Ubuntu.
Ubuntu.
Ubuntu.
Here's our case.
Serious.
Serious.
It's pretty used.
It's so kind of valid.
It's used a lot.
So,
the deck is the package manager part.
Ubuntu.
No,
it's just,
it's just what it is.
It basically is a Ubuntu.
Like,
it's what a Ubuntu is playing stuff.
It's like the,
the mother.
Yes.
A lot of different distributions,
including this.
I thought,
is it a dev unit or a panel?
Well,
that's, that's the package manager,
the package manager came from Debian.
If you go back to like Ubuntu 6.06,
you're probably using the current learning of Debian.
So,
the plus side is,
it's going to be really stable.
I mean,
because it's,
yeah,
Debian.
Everything in it's been in two years.
But, you know,
you don't have to register.
Who doesn't register?
Quality are all USB,
uh,
the stick anymore.
You know,
that's not so much a desktop.
So,
the package manager is,
are the packages
for the install and just being the same,
because they originally
came from Debian links.
So, their name,
Debian package files.
Debian.
Absolutely.
Okay.
Ubuntu is like a base distribution.
It comes from something else.
Think of it as the same way.
The same way RPM actually stands
for red hat.
Package manager.
Okay.
So, I came from red hat.
Debian.
Debian.
Debian.
Debian.
Debian.
Linux.
What's your thing about Debian?
It's okay.
Everything's fine.
Debian is kind of like Red Hat.
Yeah.
We are going to go stick.
It gives it right now.
As, uh,
our world would, uh,
reach the blue grid.
So, that's okay.
Take a look at the map of all the
different, uh, Linux variants.
You will see exactly where Debian came from.
Actually,
Debian is not like Red Hat.
The price of Ubuntu is kind of like Fedora.
That's good.
That's a good one.
Ubuntu is based off the testing branch.
That's good.
Yeah.
Let's move on.
If you're moving Ubuntu,
you're a beta tester.
Our, our,
our same thing.
Our Fedora man is good to tell us about Debian.
No, I'm just going to,
I'm looking for a picture here.
Yeah, picture is worth a thousand words.
Yeah.
Like a tree.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Debian.
Debian is one of the first branches from them.
Yup.
That's exactly what I'm looking at.
It's the most distraught time.
The number of branches you're,
you're Red Hat.
So, there is another.
This church.
Suzy is, uh,
close to that place.
So.
Where's that?
It's slagged.
Where's the church?
Where's the church?
There is.
So, uh,
they have a lot of derivatives that.
Line reviews.
Yeah.
I got more of that.
So,
let's go and be kind of hard to see you.
I'll just move.
If there's still a jet tube.
We should see these were all of this.
Yeah.
I didn't install them in the Xbox.
This is the Red Hat.
No, it was right in the basement.
But they can't.
So, all of these generals.
It was a gender derivative of the original Xbox.
All of these generals actually.
There's a special distribution.
Those are some of the other ones though.
I think it was close to our Suzy here.
There's no hardware.
I think it's a ridiculous operating system.
So, there's a bunch of other ones that.
Gender kind of.
Well, I'm rich.
So, I see those.
You put up an annual hardware.
You take it.
You buy a picture.
I mean, the price.
I think it's a little much.
I think it's a journal.
X-A-N-E.
A book.
A book.
A book.
A book.
Do you feel like these sell.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
It's been a while.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And right now.
I know that they lost their
Foundation as a nonprofit organization
Status.
Status.
You know it was going down the hill.
I don't know if they were out right now,
But it's a sort of one genuine.
What genuine.
What genuine.
You know why you guys want
Looking at a picture.
had a Microsoft partner partner they partnered up and the thing was they
was saying that actually Redhead didn't have didn't have to sign up any license
agreement so they was saying in virtualization we have partnered with you and
we are going to work on interoperability that's the big work. Yeah I read that
and it's just kind of they both decided that it's the best if we validate one
version of your software on ours and you validate one version of our software
on yours. Yeah it's just a good business sense. Well somehow the the Microsoft
acknowledged the mutual customers. I don't think there's a lot of work to be
done I think it's more of a program feel good. That's exactly what does work
good and instead of getting we don't support that operating system you get well you
know what can I get. We'll open up a ticket. We'll close it about a month. So I
mean one of the things they were saying well guess what you guys know well you
had to exchange money here and there. Even though I do not understand because I
think the Dovo was actually receiving a more money than Microsoft so from that
point Novo was actually getting more money but there was some in
definition they put the Novo so it was saying that this is much better deal. Red Hat
pretty much came out and said to Microsoft we'll deal with you but you put
patents in there and we're out because Red Hat has kind of got some ideas and
they just won't back. Actually a Red Hat was trying for Cortex's you know that
about year ago year and a half ago they tried to release this stuff operating
system and it was hinging on Cortex it's Cortex support and they wanted to
actually have some Cortex support from Microsoft and Microsoft was just
just pushing that they out but they want to have a patents in there and
Red Hat just walked away. Yep exactly so. So then I guess Microsoft or if they
want something that's what it is. Cool good. Miro 2.2.0. Miro is another is that
here. It's actually another player it's a it's a streaming player and I know
that Mozilla invested some money into it some time ago and so they had
actually 2.0 there's your little over there and family guy probably. So it's
another version of oxy. No it's a Miro it's a player. Oh it's just a player okay it's
a streamer. It's a box. It's less than a whole on the media center thing it's
more about application. Yes you probably wouldn't use it on your TV whereas
boxy you would use it. It is what you want to do with it. Miro used a platform.
Yes it's based on Mozilla I think. Yes I don't know exactly how that works but I've got the one
that whatever version in stone because I was in the Ubuntu Repos and I'm not afraid to
start it. The first time I started it it just told my processor. In the older
day I started it up and I wasn't sure actually what it's supposed to be doing. I
couldn't get it to playing. I thought I was running it for a while and it worked
fairly well as a bit more client and basically it's a stream aggregator.
It had a decent interface. I just played around with boxing on that as much as I like the
interface. I know that Mozilla has their entirely own widget set and everything too so
it might be using that and might not actually browser based. I don't know I have to look at it.
So it was over there. There was an article about using dfware diagramming and it appeared
to be very nice article. It's kind of useful. It's kind of difficult to use. I like open
office draw better for this creating simple stuff. I think they were talking about open
office but they they were saying the df is better to open office. It's better at some
things. It depends on what you're doing. I guess for the stuff that I was doing the open
office draw actually worked better but I can see there are some things where dialed.
Probably for simple drawings you're going to use an open office drawing program or something
else for software diagrams. You're going to use an IE's diagram. For electrical drawings
you're going to use something else. Question is what are you going to use dfores to
complicate for a little stuff. They don't have specialized enough for other things.
The only thing that would be really useful is that they actually had some nice clip
or 9 kind of pieces and they don't. So it's like there's your niche and you missed it.
Missed the ball. Don't worry somebody will get a new developer and they'll start to
rewrite it. This has been around for a long time. I don't really have any years.
Okay, let's go. There was an article about body, personal finance, financial application
I would say that on Linux probably the best financial application is money dance. But you have
to pay for it. You have to pay about $15 for it.
I think I would stay away from there. Well, if you enjoyed that's great. It's a web based
program. You can try for your investments. You write your social media number.
Sure. There was something about raw image tools for Linux. I actually, on this article,
there's nothing really new. Well, that number 2 there is kind of interesting.
I installed that on Amanda's camera. It's not a replacement firmware, but it's almost like a
program that runs on top of the existing firmware. So it loads off of the flash disk or the
SD card and will give you additional features over what's already there.
You can actually save it raw. That's one of the main things on that camera.
There's no option to save it raw. With this program, you can actually save your images raw.
There's a bunch of other things like there's a few ISO settings and frame rate or not frame rate,
shutter speeds that you can't get with the built-in settings or the built-in firmware.
This will override it so that you can get those additional settings. You can also run the scripts on your
camera. I've heard about it and I guess I probably discovered that because I already can save
raw, so I sort of went through it. I read it. They really say that the main, the most
useful thing about that is the scripting because you can set your camera up to take a shot
every two minutes or something or they have a motion sensor script that you can put in there.
Get the results and motion sensor take photos on motion sensor and all sorts of stuff like that.
Yeah, they can.
But it works on the camera monitors the pixels and when it senses more or greater than a certain
threshold to change between two pixels, then it considers that the frame to change.
You need to have a Canon camera which is using this processor.
Yeah, well, and those three processors.
Right, and most Canon cameras that you get are going to have that. Anything in about
150 to whatever range you're going to have that.
So like these little cameras are like DSLRs.
DSLRs do have those same ones.
So a friend of ours has a, I can't remember the model number.
He paid about 1500 bucks for it. So it's a nice camera and it has the Digic 3 wall,
which a man in his camera has the Digic 3 as well.
And that was like 300.
So like a Rebel or something there?
No, it's a power shop.
Yeah, I don't have the first first Rebel and I don't think that I have this processor there.
But I can shoot it in raw, but I cannot do it.
It's not pretty, but it does what it needs to do.
Could you break her?
No, because it doesn't replace the firmware that's there, most on top of it.
So what you can do is, if the SD card is in, the SD card is right protected,
it will read from the SD card and look for a certain file.
And the other file is there running when the camera boots up.
So you have to do this with that SD card with that firmware there on all the time.
And if you take the SD card up with the camera, it starts up normally.
Wow.
And you haven't been any changes to it.
So that's kind of cool.
So there's a file you store on that SD card.
Yup, but you wrote.
Well, but they wrote, yeah.
Their program interface is from the camera.
The interface with camera, then you can put scripts on there that you write as well.
Or download or whatever.
And I thought that they had that application.
I think this is library DC raw.
I think that's the library.
And this is application.
That's actually plugged into raw studio.
I don't know, raw therapy.
It sort of, it sort of works.
It sort of does the work.
Yeah, that's sure what kind of license it is.
It's sort of, you know, I tried a few times.
This is actually photo management.
It's an algorithm.
Because it's an algorithm.
And raw view, raw view.
I did try and grow view.
And this is kind of okay.
I think raw view is old.
Yeah.
But what I'm doing right now is that I stick it in Picasso.
And I adjusted it in Picasso.
And that you can export.
You don't have to export your raw pictures.
But if you want to actually save them, you export it.
And then you have your raw and your JPEG.
So that's what I'll do.
Because I used to have a few different programs.
And I spent hours and hours on it.
And you see that I had picked you up to here.
And from May last year, I didn't develop any pictures.
I just had to brew.
So that's what I do.
I used Picasso.
And it appears to be working quite well.
It's a wine program, right?
Actually, I run through wine.
But you have a learnings of that package.
So that's customized.
But I run through regular wine with this program.
And that appears to be working better
than when it comes to origin.
It's like Google donated a lot of code to wine.
Yes.
Either go through wine through their stuff,
or go through your own wine.
And that's what I sort of figure out, you know,
that they already contribute to wine.
So I'll use Windows program.
And it actually has more features.
Windows program says more features than Linux program.
Let's say they have this upload this movie.
You can actually upload a movie to your DeGazza.
But Linux program, I think, doesn't have any.
I've been back and forth between Picasso and Espon for the last year, probably.
I think I've just settled on Espon because it's easier to manage stuff.
Even if you get a couple thousand pictures in here,
and you're going to be...
You're going to be hating it.
A couple thousand.
You actually can't do anything about them.
No, I mean, it's just a bunch of pictures wired in there.
Well, it depends.
I have to keep it.
I organize it by year and a month.
Yeah, you've got to manually organize all your folders.
Actually, I do like organizing my pictures.
I don't like to have magic.
That's why when I'm done without adjusting here,
I will export those pictures.
And I will have to keep that.
That's why.
I'm settled on Espon exactly because you know what?
I don't want to manage anymore.
I can't keep up with it.
Does it look at the dates on the images?
It does a couple things that I think are really nice.
It tags on your imports as an import role that you can always search and find.
All the pictures you imported at any given point in time.
Like anything else.
It keeps track of all the changes you've made to it.
Does it hang in the XF data that the camera writes to you?
That's where it's a lot better.
It's the actual XF data that you can apply your own tags to it.
So I think that's the organizational features of Espon.
I haven't seen anything that comes close to making it as easy to find stuff, organize stuff.
And they're getting enough, a number of plugins for Amazon.
The best program when I saw organizing as far as your album organization was Adobe.
I think they called it photo album or something like that.
But that was only for Windows.
And I used to use it for some time.
And I didn't actually find any program that close to whatever it was doing.
I had read on that.
That's like a really good program.
It is a very good program.
It is equal to this.
If that would be on that next, I would pick my portfolio.
I would say $50.
Yes.
So cool.
That's what I've been doing.
iPhone, posters, really decent.
Can I run it?
Sure.
I mean, it's five years I don't want to spend.
I've got to put a tower of my portfolio.
Yeah.
So I can find like all the pictures of it.
Yeah.
So I photo.
I'm going to spend five different things.
I mean, I like this.
Yeah.
You know what I'm saying?
You know what I'm saying?
You know what I'm saying?
Honestly.
I know the hardware is expensive.
But the hardware could get what you paid together.
It's called an I&R.
If you have one, anything.
Okay.
Even a high-forder one.
I would be free apps that come with the app.
Every cloud of mad.
It goes away anything.
It's kind of like date.
So.
Like just.
Let's move on.
Let's move on.
I don't want all the.
Can you name it?
Seriously.
Absolutely.
It's a based on the.
Yeah.
And use all three.
And I would honestly love to see an iPhone for when it's.
I really don't have.
I don't have $2,000 for a computer.
I'm pretty sure that they it's on.
$3,000 for a brood software.
You know.
Yeah.
You want to get drunk?
So yeah.
There's time.
I won't be drunk anymore.
So yeah.
It's got this timeline up there and it's.
It's a big mono.
So.
That's not a very good demo.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He just got paid on.
I know.
Should we keep on going?
I got mono.
Yeah.
Actually.
He got mono.
We got mono.
There were a few applications last week, we are actually going to talk about this Linux
and CNC, so we're talking about that and then Adam Blasphix set up this FPV server,
really fast with this G8, G2, G2 tools, God, I don't know, I didn't want to do it,
I didn't want to do it, I didn't want to do it, I almost like the swearing,
I had many tools, it's like that, so it was good, I believe, you know.
There's some of it, they're a little bit confusing, some of them did not, the most intuitive interfaces,
but they are interfaces to some config files that, unlike person who hasn't worked with an
FPV server, might get really frustrated with, so, like as I managed to get the server up,
I was running a pretty good user accounts for it, with access to different directories
and see fairly complicated stuff, I never would have taken the hours to sit down and read
through the manual, just a config file, and then I uploaded file there that he quickly
wasn't working, you know, the security app, as Steve gives a good update to his house,
so that's all he's doing, just come through the internet, come through the computer,
there was some kind of article, I'll open it wide open, it's been forwarding,
I'll just transcode actual in this video using Encoder, Encoder, it's gonna,
it's gonna, Encoder is good, but you need to know all these things, you know, so it's
actually good, you know, pretty much all those other pieces of software used in the background,
yes, that's what it is, there's only about two or three different encoder programs,
you know, I bought a video actually, and it does have, there's done really,
it's how you evaluate the year, you know, and there's not a lot of visual there,
there's more, it's more actual audio, so, you know, if I would want to actually
record audio from the video, probably that's what I could use, isn't really useful for that, yeah.
Is there a way to go with it, with like an application like this, what
the library is it's using? Yeah, there's a Linux command, I don't know what it is,
it's called, it's called, it's called, give it out, LD, LD, is that it?
No, it's, LDD, print shared library dependencies, that might be it, so you go LDD,
then encoder, I'm not found, I suppose I should check where I even have it,
I don't know, yeah, there is the peer package manager, can't tell you what dependencies it has,
well, something kind of, if you need to be that file that I promptly told you that you
did it was closed, yeah, yeah it was closed, because I saved the tags,
it's like when we're here to file, that's a question, I'll be here.
Last week we were talking about this create spaces, that's actually why I bought that,
somebody put it there, their content and I was able to buy it from there,
so if you have a content you want to sell, this is actually on demand,
you own the rights, they don't own the rights, and they are actually telling you
you don't pay them all the rights. There was already the help of writing a Linux
virus, did somebody read this? No, it's not interesting.
Even this me got you, there was a discussion about this, how to write the
Linux virus, do you read about it? Give me that one about that thing.
Red through it. I don't know, I actually have more just went straight
to the comments and everybody said, yeah, everybody knew about this like for
two years, no one really cares. Okay, so we have saved.
I think we're okay for now. Is it saved, Gibson, who is writing his
article? There we go. Yeah, it is, it is, how do we do it?
It was pretty much the same thing that happens in Outlook,
pretty much you send them executable and Outlook automatically,
you know, executes Windows programs, and it was, I can't remember,
evolution or whatever. I didn't use that. Well, you're safe.
I mean, open a launcher file, it would not be open to launch a file
and execute. So it's not hard on this.
It's pretty much. It doesn't have a root privilege.
Well, it can still wipe your home drive. I mean, who cares if it
trashes your file system if your home drive is gone?
It's good. It's what you bank it up for.
40 hours.
If you're as old as the Roman browser is a different user.
It is the LDD.
Oh, open up a prompt.
5 seconds, demo.
Oh, so a name of a program, you got a name of a program,
it's a LDD space, whatever it is, but it keeps the name from the
folder.
Try again.
Menti and Menti.
If that's, if you have it, you have it installed, right?
I don't have it installed.
It has to be installed.
Let's see if I can ask y'all.
Yeah, I'm trying to put it there, right?
I'll put Kim.
What?
LDD.
Do I have LDD?
No, I have to go to that.
No, LDD just doesn't search your password.
Or wait, oh yeah, go to a user bin.
U.S.R.
Where bin.
And then it was slash.
No forward slash.
Just bin.
And then type LVD.
And it gives you all the different libraries that get users.
So you can enjoy yourself tonight when you get home.
You can go and say, you can check it out.
Okay.
That is awesome.
I don't need this library.
Last week we were talking about this guy here.
I cannot say that.
Or do we go?
Yeah.
We know whatever.
Yeah, what a weird name, huh?
Yeah, but it looks like it was working so great.
And then Adobe and Nokia pledge $100 million for Flash
and Air for those applications.
So, well, that means that I guess we have some applications there.
Somebody's might.
Well, applications.
All right, another framework that we can support.
Well, Adobe is pushing Air for some time.
And it really has a problem.
There was that.
That was the front article of the next journal this month was Adobe Air
and all the apps that you could run on the next.
Air is a really good idea.
They just didn't integrate it well enough with any existing technologies.
You know, there was something.
You know, there was something.
Yes, but I'm going to get it.
There was something.
There was some kind of connection between Nokia and Huawei.
I read it somewhere this week.
And I was surprised that I thought it was going to be on sale.
So it was doing a matter about Flendo with this.
You can only get the.
What's their media plan?
Is that the Elijah?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, they only have a package for it.
We do too.
It's plain old source code.
And.
Which I tried the I tried to compile it.
I gave up.
Because it's using actually some kind of sub libraries.
And of course,
the package.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think you can get a dead file for it.
But maybe it was in the Fedora, the fresh RPM.
So you've got the website up there.
You know, the fluendo one.
What's it?
Forget.
Bowed.
It was a super Python program.
And.
I will see if it's in the repositories.
As you.
I have a mind.
I tried to view that like multiple times and the website was down and I just looked at it and now it's back up.
The one thing you wanted to look on is the one thing you wanted to look on.
And I kept going, you know, someone's blog on their server at home and I'm like, man, they tore it up a little bit ago.
Actually, this guy is from Linnick's Wicked Tech Show and he's working a lot with the TV and media.
So there's an article of all that Archbodge.
What is it?
I think it's a high-definition wallet to Archbodge.
So your capture card, I think that's what it's going to be.
That's a different number.
I think it's better than a package.
How about a Wi-Fi?
It actually works.
It's just a hardware.
It's just a hardware.
It's like a standard one capture device.
It's just a hardware.
That's a good concept but this is going to take it a step further and make it a fully-fledged DVR unit itself.
Make it its own standalone device, make it cross-platform and make it show up as a NAT.
I've never been terribly impressed with how much.
I tried one.
I would say a lot of people on Linnick's like the clock problem because it doesn't work.
I have one of those and then I have one of those HCTB 5500.
You know, the special high-deaf card that's made for Linnick's.
Those two just work.
I haven't had any problems with them.
Maybe I'm lucky.
Yeah.
There was a fast, positive clock for instance.
You know, I was really disappointed with this.
They had the video and you couldn't see the screen.
And they had the audio and they only had the audio on the left channel and on the right-handle channel they had full static.
The audio skipped about once every four minutes.
It skipped like two or three seconds.
I wanted to listen to it.
I actually listened to 15 minutes worth of complete and utter crap.
The crappiest sound quality ever because I wanted to listen to it eventually and just came off.
So did you get anything under those pieces?
Yeah, it was very interesting what they're doing with X.
Because the Keith Packard or whatever is his name.
He's actually the head honcho who works for Intel.
And he's actually leading the, I think he's leading us for a project.
What is the overview of it last year?
Well, really.
The part that I've heard is an hour-long talk.
So I only heard a part of it.
I heard about the graphics execution manager, which pretty much they're writing under their own kind of embedded operating system into X.
It does management of memory and resources.
Where before they never had any manager.
So they had the 3D, they had the 2D, they had all these different pieces.
But they couldn't talk to one another.
So if you wanted to do something in 2D, and pipe it to 3D,
you actually had to do it on the video card, offload it into main memory,
and then reload it back onto the video card into 3D in order to transfer it.
Because there was no transfer between the different pieces.
So everything was way inefficient when you wanted to talk to the different pieces they asked.
So they added this piece right in the middle.
It manages everything, manages caching and all that.
And it provided for really easy ways to connect all of the different pieces together.
It was just the next thing that will come out or is this a ways offer?
I think it should be fairly soon if it's not already in the works.
Okay, cool.
I don't know, that was probably towards the end of the hour and talk.
Yeah.
You know, because at some point, what about half a year ago,
people have complained that the X-LOG is not doing a lot.
You know, there was not a lot of bugs fixing.
Did they really cycle us to slow what stuff like that?
Maybe they were just busy.
It was actually really interesting if you're interested in how it works underneath the hood.
But the audio just kills it.
You're supposed to download the flash and then rip the audio off.
It wouldn't have fixed it because the audio was just bad to begin with.
My chest is in the audio.
Well, that's what I did.
I actually muted one channel on my sound card and listened to it.
Yeah.
But there was still a little bit of static and the missing sections of like four or five seconds,
it always occurred when you were saying something important.
So it's like, what the heck did you say?
And there's no, you'll never know what to say.
You can write it in the email.
That was, I think, the first comment.
It means to transcribe this and guess what it says every two minutes.
In how-to, actually, we have a few, about IP addresses.
And there was some really interesting concept,
which actually got me excited.
Nothing really gets me excited anymore.
But what this guy, actually, there is a database behind it.
And so here's actually the dump from a database.
You have multiple tables.
I think you have five tables.
And what they do is how they, because towns or cities are assigned a range of IP addresses,
but it can be actually publishing.
So that's why you need to make a calculation of the IP address.
And how they did it was that they got IP addresses.
They took the first number, multiplied by 256.
And then they added to a second number plus, they multiplied by 256 plus the third number.
They throw away the fourth number, because they were saying,
well, all the fourth number is out from the same geographical area.
And then you got your result and you matched it against the database,
where you actually had your number.
So you could actually do the range.
Yeah, I mean, we do this on the steamup.com.
You actually use a database.
I'm going to call the max.
Mine.
Next, mine.com.
I think it is that about that would be a version.
Okay.
It's only about 4% off.
Actors see from like a version.
Okay.
And yeah, it's basically, I think, only about two or three tables.
Yeah.
But you said it's just the IP blocks.
Yeah.
Since an IP address is just a one-sided majority,
which I believe that goes in between.
And it doubles.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I just read it.
I was, you know, I was very, you know, I'm sort of data person.
You can do that with GPS coordinates, too.
I've seen that where they have like different items,
or latitude and longitude.
And then you can give it an S2L statement that will say,
okay, I want everything within 50 miles of this.
Yes.
And latitude and longitude, it actually does all the math
and everything, rating the S2L statement.
That's it.
That's it.
Sorry.
Again, that's just the backbone of our list of local sites.
So if I need something like that, I'll cut to see you.
Absolutely.
Who is specialized in some of you?
No.
Yeah.
Another one that I would want to pull something out of free.
But that's what is going to happen.
No.
We have a lot first time.
You might get some beer.
You might get some beer, yeah.
That's about it.
So I was, you know, this concept actually, it's, I mean,
you take the string and you convert it to a dessert.
The database has got the latitude and latitude.
Yes, it does.
Yes.
So it's an X-Mine.
Because this actually, this dumb, he's saying that he's going to
update how accurate it is.
So maybe he's not saying where it's coming from.
So your IP address is given out geographically.
Is that the whole list?
Sort of.
But then we would say, how do you know?
No.
But I'm charter customer.
Well, I'm coming to, from here, I go, I'm chartering in Kentucky.
So from here, I go actually on private network to a Kentucky,
then I'm getting out in Kentucky to a public network.
How does it know that I'm in here?
Are you asking me?
Yeah.
Oh, basically, like you can look up like the way Max Buyer,
wherever you got this database, Trump was like, you know,
all the internet addresses are registered with a company.
It's like this.
And they just assign them out to you.
Yes.
Or they figure out what blocks are.
But doesn't it actually know where I come up?
So is it actually, doesn't know that I'm coming from Kentucky
server, hopefully?
Well, it knows that charter is using like the power.
Okay.
Their business is basically figuring out, there's the site you block.
So they ask charter, where are you?
Okay.
Exactly block.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
So that was the, what's your thing?
I think it's max9.com.
You know, your company that you use for, that you guys created.
For the, for the, for the, the website I'm talking about is
this local.com.
This listed one.
And I'm kind of curious what city I'll put you in.
It's not a player.
Maximum function.
Maximum function.
Maximum, Maximum, M.A.X M.E.
Hunter's name's to you.
E.M. G. E. call.
I.P. G. E.
Well, to the Well.
And G. E. E.
Bull, that's probably what I didn't.
So, look, I can use your saying measurement.
Look Lord sources of Broadband, you know, probably not P.M.
Okay.
It's a real state and the vehicle is doing okay, something simply can't set.
You probably heard, yeah, pizza.
Whoop.
Vernon?
Yeah, but they have a view search for a GRP, I think three or something.
Yeah, basically.
Do you write these city, do you know what we call them?
There's also a town in Phoenix, it's a prison.
Free open source.
My story is city.
If you write them, that's something.
Because our defense, it was actually the whole world.
Okay, yeah, so is this.
It doesn't get any presence.
I think the animals are usually wrong until they start.
They have a CSV version, you can download.
The truth is in the window.
That's the whole world we want.
We have a binary version, which you may or may not be more the fastest.
That one was done from my school, and we're on a record.
Oh, it doesn't trace where it's just now.
That's it.
You know, at least it's great because it's a CSV version.
And then you will process that.
And that's what we're doing.
Yes.
So, if it's here, you know, I quote, they quote an external table.
I think it does.
You know, that's why it's so big.
What do you do for an external table that you quote it?
Can you write?
Yeah, I don't know about that.
Because it's interesting.
Does your site visit local.com?
Is it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How did you know that?
You Inside.
Yeah.
How did you know they do that?
Yeah.
Is it all up?
Or up?
You all probably have relatively
Why?
It's not the bottom of the feeding, you know, folks of speech.
I'm talking something I don't know.
Actually, the website, if I can't get back to it, it had a lot of, you know, like, something
is coming to my server.
No, there's no this one.
Yeah, that one I wouldn't.
That first one blog had addresses that may or may not be a good way to do it.
We actually had a situation where we had a lot of spam from, like, there's a lot of people
in India and Cameroon and stuff like that.
There's like, you know, spam plus, fights and things like that.
So, we were talking about the idea of just blogging everything alongside the U.S., their
bodies for some false positives, but whatever.
Doing it, this guy actually had, let's say, like, he was, how will deny a lot of countries
from, so he was saying, if this guy is not coming from the location of what I want, and then he's
appearing to the peer and blood into the walls, then also then he was asking, you were processing
and then you write it to IP tables.
Yeah.
The thing is with that though, like, the fault IP tables, like, it depends how much you want to block.
Yes.
We want to block everything outside the U.S.
And there are a lot of IP block, which I'd be liking the millions of IP blocks that we're trying to block.
The fault IP table is going to do a linear search through all that.
There's going to be, it's going to just move.
There are some hatches for IP tables, and there are some other options that will do like a
more efficient binary searches or different post searches.
You've just got to get multiple servers and organize all the tree and have every server do.
Oh, you have a lot of servers.
I'm just going to say, you have to start doing, like, clustering with some sort of,
IP tables, IP tables that can do massive servers.
Oh, you've seen a more efficient search.
I'm going to go into everything along.
Some kind of hatches.
I think sort of index is like that.
Specifically, the patches are a form of a binary tree, but there are significantly more of a bunch of faster.
It was interesting that actually it was about geolocation that IP addresses.
It was more, you know, I find it interesting.
Yeah.
It's really fun stuff.
You know, you've got that on Google Maps.
There is a mapping service.
There is a Google ecosystem.
Doesn't particularly pin those girls' pictures on Google Maps.
One trick with the IP tables.
It doesn't really have anything to do with this, but it's kind of interesting.
You can make your own, like, poor man's load balancer just using IP tables.
What you can take is, you just take the last digit.
It's even.
Go here.
If it's odd, go here.
Yep.
And it's just a simple load balancer.
So you don't have to buy, you know, load balancer hardware here.
You'll like it.
You'll like to spend my previous or something there.
I was just going to say, couldn't, I mean, theoretically this structure of the business is in Google Maps.
A competitor to what you're doing, essentially.
Not really.
I mean, the more you learn, this is one of the sides to do.
It's incredibly saturated.
There's, I mean, the big ones you'll be able to tell about the blockchain.
Sure.
And there's a lot of hundreds of small ones.
But, you know, something might do me.
So there's kind of a server hardware you have to have to support something like this in the background.
Right now, it's just to think of two servers and an ad-based server.
It might be a really smart thing.
And so right now, we're looking for investors, or we're talking to investors right now.
We don't really get more money in things like that.
But, I mean, really, you don't get a lot.
I'm just curious, what kind of piping need and what kind of server loyalty needs to support.
Especially with a large database.
Yeah, well, business is a lot of problems for us.
Businesses, we don't have a ton of businesses.
Vehicles, we are one of the biggest data bases, actually.
Which is so interesting.
If I could just say, we were doing it completely SQL.
And what did we do?
We heard it some stuff.
Two more custom lines.
Very efficient search.
I wish I had seen it's awesome.
But usually, what they do with that, they search like that.
They create a custom feedback.
Yeah.
Like, whatever photo we have, we take money for it.
For all of it.
Okay.
And that's basically what we've created.
Custom index.
Which, if you look up very fast, which then,
we'll talk to the SQL database.
We'll get that.
But yeah, I think we don't get a soundtrack.
I mean, we get a decent soundtrack.
I think, what's the average?
Maybe a maybe a bit for a second.
How many units do you have in mind?
I can't say.
Do I have to see?
Do I have to see right now?
Yeah.
Okay.
That's less than a hundred.
That would be right.
Let's keep on moving.
There was an article about Zedity.
I used that a little bit.
So there was an article about that.
That's useful.
There it is.
Sorry.
You should really look into it.
Like, if you wanted to start some advertising campaigns.
And you wanted to set up something like a affiliate marketing.
Or some paper book campaigns.
Or something.
You should check out 7Search.com.
Or one of the lowest paper click advertisers that beat out.
I mean, I've been playing around with it.
Google AdWords 821 price.
And then, you know, I was using this as a gift to my dad
for Christmas this year.
He has a hunting and fishing business.
And I gave him a campaign using 7Search.
And for, I think it was the 20th.
So the 25 or 35 dollars in a draw of 700 clicks to his website.
So it's interesting.
One thing.
I just don't be real quick.
I know that we're looking for AdWords after Rob.
And investors for us.
And investors, especially made a very, very collectible product.
Completely based on the geolpation and things like that.
Where they can basically specify.
I want to, you know, advertise within, you know,
20 miles of old player.
Or 50 miles of an ambulance.
And things like that.
We're using certain sections of your site.
And that's one of the things you're open to.
Probably not.
But that's another reason why you could look at those geolpations.
I think the Facebook advertising model is pretty cool too.
Or you can do advertising on a per-network basis.
Yes.
For town or per state or per...
Yeah, but that's actually, we have three cheers
where it's within a radius or basically a bounty box.
Sure.
Sure.
Or it's less structured that way.
But I mean, you get the idea.
I figured out how to block those annoying pictures.
In those Facebook.
Like the side of the banner I ever had.
Yeah.
The banner I ever had.
The line in your day, like, man.
Is it, like, with the, yeah, the Firefox ad on?
AdWords.
Just in operas.
I actually just went in from your ad server.
I just included that on the list of...
Oh, blocks.
Don't, don't serve me stuff from here.
And the ads magically went away.
Yeah.
But it's amazing how much quicker you say.
Yeah.
It works.
And it doesn't flat-shabby anymore.
That's what, like, when we are looking for geolpations,
we have what we're looking for and fraud.
Yeah.
That's, that's the, of course, the room.
What am I going to write?
Yeah, it's kind of ours.
And I know the MaxMank company, like they used to really mount
their GIP stuff.
And now they want it to fraud.
They want it to fraud.
They'll try us to do it their job.
Yeah, I don't know what to ask you.
But if there's something looking to it,
filtering it by location, assuming that anyone from outside
of the US is fraudulent.
Well, if you are making...
If you are making business just within the United States,
or if you are in the country, just within the practice room.
Yeah, shipping it was so free.
You were trying to make it so inquisitive.
I was not trying it, but lots of everybody.
But I know at some point we had orders which they were coming from IP addresses.
From outside of the US, that shipment was within the United States.
So maybe the person was really fast.
I know.
What was that?
That's why we're showing you on shipments
from an IP address.
Or else it's on this cell.
It's not what it should be.
It's something that I don't know where it's on.
It's like a new ship.
That's why you need a new ship.
If you have to run it, you're not going to have to run it.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
It's a new ship.
Thank you for watching!
