Episode: 975
Title: HPR0975: Why 16 Cores ?
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0975/hpr0975.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 05:54:17

---

.
Hey, DeepGeek here from the TalkGeek to me podcast, www.TalkGeekToMe.us.
So we call on a quick rant to Hacker Public Radio, basically because all my in-real-life
friends won't understand this.
A few years ago, I bought a beautiful single core processor computer.
You know, I knew that a guy in my age group would be nostalgic for the days of one core
on a board, a really nice top-of-the-line board, a tie-in motherboard, TYA, and motherboard,
which is a high-end motherboard with an Optoron AMD Optoron processor single core.
And buying, you know, what's called Workstation Great Hardware, solid as a rock, really loved
it, but that was years ago.
Now it has USB 1, the USB SNES of the USB 3.
So I'm getting the itch to buy a new computer.
So just out of curiosity, I said, well, what would it take to keep the Optoron brand, the
Optoron processor, and, you know, the tie-in motherboard in modern architecture, you know,
so I could get the fast-to-backplane speed, the newer, the new memory standards, you know,
all that good stuff for the motherboard.
So I go into New Egg, and I ask New Egg, you know, what's the current tie-in motherboard
an Optoron processor.
Now get this, the minimum new one they sell has two CPU slots, and the latest Optoron
has a minimum of eight cores, which means you'd have to buy a 16 core motherboard.
I don't understand.
I want someone to explain to me what a single person would do with 16 cores.
I mean, I just don't get it.
I must be getting older or something.
It's going on, 16 cores, I mean, my Optoron's got to be bored out of its mind half the time.
I'm just reading web pages, I don't get it.
So leave me a comment, you know, most of you know my email address, DG at DeepGeek.us.
Send me an email if you have a similar feeling or similar experience.
I'd love to hear from maybe one who wants to, you know, talk to me about this crap.
So that's my rant called, what do you do with it?
What would an individual do with this?
Tell me, please, I mean, is there some kind of game that needs 16 core, what do you
design, nuclear bomb, what physics experiment could you possibly do?
Well, I can't imagine 16 cores for one per, what do you do with it for workstation?
That's my rant.
So I hope this makes an acceptable HPR episode.
Have a great day.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, or Take a Public Radio, those aren't.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital.Pound and the Empanomical and Computer
Club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Oneless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments, attribution,
share a like, free dose of license.
