Episode: 492
Title: HPR0492: TIT Radio Ep 14
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0492/hpr0492.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 21:43:57

---

Recorded live tip radio number 14 starts now
Hello and welcome to Hacker Public Radio. Let's meet our round table of geeks tonight.
Asmuth.
Oh good evening, Monster B.
J-Man.
Hello.
Klaatu.
Good evening.
Art V61.
Hello.
Monster B.
330.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
I'm Monster B.
Good.
Let you guys know too we have a bunch of listeners that are coming from iTunes, so I just want
to tell these people with iPods and iPhones to go to HackerPolicRadio.org and check out
the other great shows.
Absolutely.
Yeah, there's a lot of good ones over there like demo and bust by SIGFLOB, talk-
Really cool show.
Yeah.
I'm constantly amazed by how.
And talk-eak to me by deep-eak, I mean there's a bunch over there.
You can't find something in your life and there's something wrong with you.
There's a lot of active people over there lately like Phoenix, Ken Fallon, Düsselweb, Lost
and Bronx.
And even our very own Klaatu.
I haven't been active on there at all, it's like.
Oh jeez.
Well you're posting all those like self interviews and-
Oh yeah, it's right.
Never go.
Yeah, you're right.
Better explain that.
Sounds like he's interviewing himself.
Yeah, that's self-eak, I don't know how to explain it.
End of a higher limit, that's it, lately.
Oh, and we forgot Pierre 64 is not here, what the heck.
Oh yeah.
But is there a kangaroo between him and his computer?
I mean I could understand then, you know, the things are nasty.
But he's listening though.
What kind of crap is that?
Listening?
Oh.
I think he should really be allowed to listen in if you're a host and you're not on the
show that night.
Yeah.
Yes, Peter, you Sheila.
Yeah, I'm just going to go through my emails.
They were sent to, uh, I got one from Danny.
I got through all of them.
This one here is from Danny.
This is, uh, he's sending this to MonsterBee.org.
Just submitting my blog and website for consideration on MonsterBee.org.
It's, uh, people actually petition you for like a spot on that place.
Oh yeah.
It's a open BSD news, tips and tricks for newbie site.
We post a link in the, uh, in the chat room.
It's a pretty good site, uh, the address is, it's polar wave dot open BSD 101 dot com.
So and I'll put that in the show notes.
Have you played around with open BSD yet?
No, I haven't.
I downloaded it, but the latest one, but I haven't tried it yet.
I mean, it's just a difference between like open BSD and free BSD, like, you know, from
Blackboard to Fedora, or is it something much more like substantial than that?
I mean, like, are you going to be lost when you fire up open BSD?
I don't, I don't think so.
I mean, I downloaded it through the disk in the, in the computer restarted it and just went
like through the installer up to the, where you would petition your head drive, uh, and
it seemed really simple.
Okay.
So, but it's, it's got the port system and in the same type of packages.
Okay.
I don't think you'd be lost if you tried it.
And how do you say this name?
J-O-S.
Is that Josh?
Yes.
Okay, here.
This guy, he's from the Netherlands, he writes in, to let us know about KDE Camp 2010,
which will be at the University of California in San Diego, January 15th through the 22nd.
And the address for that one is camp.kde.org.
And they're actually holding a contest right now if you send them an essay, it only
has to be like 300 words of like how KDE is completely changed your life, then they
will consider you free, free, so they'll pay your way out there to go to KDE camp.
Really?
Oh, yeah.
I submitted, so don't anyone else submit, so I'll win.
Yeah, I want to go to this thing, it'd be really neat, I think.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, it'd be a nice little vacation.
Actually, I really hate California, but it would be cool to be at the camp.
Yeah, well, and I'm plus I'm thinking about the weather.
That's true.
Maybe I'm trying to think of San Diego, kind of gets a little bit cold, but not like cold,
like you know what I guess.
All right, let's move on to the stories.
First up is asthma.
Oh, okay.
Well, we've kind of touched on this, I think.
The INX, and I'm just going to give a quick and easy way to get it, probably I'll explain
what it is.
It's just an info utility that tell you what you got on your system.
It's nice for when somebody asks, post set in Linux, Kranks, Rc, boobs, maybe I will.
Okay, that's all it takes on the Ubuntu to get it.
Miner changes, we'll put it on large, change the app, get to backman, and that's all it
takes to install it.
It's will give you a pretty complete listing of what your hardware has all, it'll give
you an output, look something like that, and then IRC, it has five different verbose levels
that you can really maximize the info, but you know, you abuse it on the hashtags, Kranks,
and if I don't kick you, Jay Lindsey will, how's that?
Let the new machine there, eh?
Yeah, that's the new one.
Issues to idling.
I-N-X-I is the new version of InfoBash, right?
Yeah, well, it's a fork of InfoBash.
Some of them weren't happy where InfoBash was going, and so they changed it, took off
on their own.
I think you just wanted to show off your new machine with this output.
Absolutely.
No, actually, this is left over from two weeks ago when you wouldn't let us, if you're
on a side of time before we could put our commands out.
Ah, so this is the command of the week?
No, I got one of them, too.
The belated command of the week, that's.
Yeah, it was a command of the week two weeks ago that I didn't get to spout, so this
is still written in batch, right?
Yeah, it is a bash grip, I believe, but I had to go back and look at it again, but I
think it's actually uses Pearl to get on Info, and you do have to install Gawk if you
don't already have it on your system, does require it on parts of their stuff.
Yeah, I installed it today, I was going to show off my kernel on this K-FreeBSD undebbion,
but it needed things that this setup doesn't have, like LS, PCI, and a bunch of other
things, so it didn't work.
Well, if you'd run a Liner Street, probably heck.
Well, I'm running canoe.
It's all canoe.
It doesn't have LS, PCI, though?
No.
Maybe you tried its route, maybe it's normal user, just doesn't have access to LS, PCI.
Now it's not even installed, it's not even in, I mean, I don't know what package is part
of, but it's not even installed.
Yeah.
Well, when we talked about that last night, Clot 2, about the K-FreeBSD kernel and
devian.
Yeah.
Yeah, it took, probably about 20 minutes to install.
Cool.
And how's it running so far?
I mean, it's running.
I mean, I'm probably only used it two hours total, I mean, it's running pretty good.
Yeah.
It's using the devian SID repos, so I don't think it's going to be a very stable system
for a kernel right now.
I mean, for a server.
Right.
Just too many updates, but it's not officially released anywhere.
This is all for testing.
So how easy was the download, do they have like a, the knife so pretty easily available
on the site?
I didn't see one right away when I was there last night, but I didn't really look either.
No, I looked all over for an ISO, and I cannot find one, but I, I was looking into that,
the canoe heard kernel.
Yeah.
And then I ran across a bunch of ISOs for all of them.
So I go ahead and post that in the chat room.
It's at the Georgia Tech FTP, and it looks like the latest one is from August.
Okay.
But it's a, it's just a typical free BSD installer, but a lot of things are incomplete
right now.
So when you, when you fire it up, you just do the expert install, set everything up,
and then once it, it completes installing the packages, it's going to ask you if you want
to reboot or, or set the more things up.
Just go ahead and reboot because the, the next screen it takes you to, nothing works.
It's, it's, I can't complete because it's going to, you know, if you go there to create
a root password, it'll take you to a blank screen, and you, you won't know what, if you're
typing, I mean, you could type in a password, but you got to make sure you don't make a
mistake because of screen's blank.
And then once I rebooted it, I mean, it worked.
I just had to set up my network.
That was it.
It uses app yet.
I mean, it uses everything Debian said.
Wow.
Interesting.
And it's using the free BSD, of course, kernel, and it's using the, the standard free
BSD file system.
Oh, okay.
But with these ISOs, it's pretty easy to install.
All right.
Sorry, as I stored your spotlight, anything else?
Oh, no, wow.
I was just thinking that was pretty good for somebody who claimed they didn't have
anything.
Well, I had to make something up, but you know what, I think I'm going to run this
for a couple of weeks, and I'll, I'll let you know how it turns out if you guys are
interested.
Yeah, I mean, I'm interested.
Are you saying you're putting it on your server then or, or, or not, because you don't
think it's going to be good for that?
What's on the server now, but it's on a different partition.
Okay.
Just a partition I use for testing.
But I think I'm just going to leave it on there for a couple of weeks and maybe do
normal things on it like I usually would do and just see how it turns out.
Yeah.
All right.
Let's move on.
What do you got for a squad, too?
Well, I've got KDevelop, which if anyone, I mean, a lot of people use stuff at a KDevelop
already, but the new KDevelop that they're working on right now has a new version of
Quanta Plus.
And Quanta Plus is a GUI application for really like HTML, CSS, XML, probably other things
as well, but I primarily use it for those.
But that's a really, really nice little application for coding all your web stuff in.
It's got like autocompletion of a lot of tags for you.
But really smart autocompletion, like if you're doing, if you've got a folder of images
that you want to put on a web, you know, they're going to go onto the web page.
And if you're in that folder while you're coding the page, you can, you know, you do an image
source equals and then you'll pop up with all the images in that folder.
So you can just auto-sport, you know, you can just select really quickly which image you
want to paste in there basically.
So it's really, really nice text editor for web site kinds of things.
And right now the official release of Quanta Plus is still in the 3.5 series.
So you need all the KDE3 lips in order to use it.
But the KDevelop in development right now is going to have Quanta, I guess, Quanta 4, I
think is what they're going to call it.
So it hasn't been released yet, but it's kind of cool to play around with.
But generally speaking, Quanta Plus is a really cool application.
If you haven't used it and you're looking for a good text editor for web coding and stuff
like that, you might want to take a look at it.
And it's on KDevelop.org or I think there's another site too that I should have had up
and I think I navigated it away from.
But I just Google Quanta Plus, it'll find it for you.
Very nice.
Have you looked at that QT creator yet?
Yeah, but those programs, I don't even know what to do with those things.
Those are so beyond me.
I mean, they look pretty and cool and stuff.
And I'm going to look at it for, I want to do that coding tutorial that I mentioned
out there last week or the week before with the FFF in fact front end just for kicks.
But other than that, I really don't know what to do with those kinds of applications.
Yeah, you mentioned that on Linux Cranks.
Okay, yeah, Linux Cranks.
Yeah, I fired it up right after that.
Yeah.
And started making, it was just a media player from that TuX radar site.
Cool.
I'll put dead and show notes for this one too.
Yeah, you should.
I started doing that when it's really nice to QT creator.
I mean, just drag and drop and fill in the blanks really.
Cool.
Okay.
Yeah, I haven't done it yet, but I want to try it for sure.
Yeah, the QT creator is from TrollTech.
It's from TrollTech or Nokia, whoever they are now.
Whereas KDevelop, I guess it's specific to a lot of KDE stuff.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure it's all C++, right?
Yeah.
Okay.
See, that's a bad thing with this thing.
You can create all these pretty programs and just fill in the blanks and not really learn anything
besides how to use the QT creator.
Right.
I guess you will pick up a little bit of programming, but.
Yeah, I mean, I've downloaded from FVN the KDevelop and KDevelop platform packages for the new KDevelop.
And it's looking pretty good.
I imagine they're going to release fairly soon here.
I don't really know.
I'm probably, you know, obviously just barely grazing the surface of what they intended to do, but it all looks pretty good to me so far.
But in terms of what I understand to use QT plus, it's about as deep as I can actually go.
Well, when I find a link for that one, I'll put it in show notes.
Oh, what?
QT or the touch reader, I think?
The QT plus.
I will paste it in for you.
All right.
And before we move on to art, did you guys, did anybody here try the new K office?
Yeah.
How is it?
It's really, it's good.
I've been with it since some of the early beta's and a lot of the little problems that I was having with some buttons and stuff have gotten fixed.
And then there's, I'm still having some trouble with importing a really weird sort of like a Microsoft Word document.
Like some of the ones with like tables and stuff in it from Word don't seem to gracefully import into K office.
Although they do import, but there's a little bit of weirdness that you have to do to get it to cooperate.
But overall, I mean, I use on my Slackware machine K office is the one that I use.
You know, I don't have open office installed at all on my Slackware machine.
And it works really nicely so far.
I'm liking it.
Yeah, as soon as it's available for Debian, I'm going to try it.
Right now it's incomplete.
There's a few things missing.
So I'm using open office right now.
Yeah.
I mean, open office, I mean, I use both.
Open office, I use on my Fedora boxes and boxing.
And it just feels so smooth and so polished.
And so, yeah, it's just super reliable for what I do and stuff like that.
K office, if I, you know, if I'm going to bring a computer over to someone and say,
here's your new Linux computer, K office would not be the application I would put on their computer.
But what I do with it, it's fine.
But I do see little glitches here and there sometimes.
All right.
Let's move on to art.
You were talking about AppGet before.
And I'm going to cross this article about how to speed up your AppGet with Axel
as anybody heard of this.
Axel actually accelerates your HTTP or FTP downloads.
But you just need multiple sources for one file.
I'll put in the, here's a link to the article ran across.
And I'll also put in another article that was with this too.
You have to download this Axel.
And then you run a little script.
Yeah.
And when you, when you use this, you'll, you'll use AppFast instead of AppGet.
And you can use it for upgrading.
You can use it for installing.
It seems to be quite a, quite a pretty good process.
And what I was reading about, I have not used it personally.
But I was reading some things people were using it.
It seemed to be received very well.
This is another little blog about it and gives you some more details on it.
I said, I have not used it myself.
I just ran across it today.
Trying to figure out what's slow about AppGet.
You mean like the downloads speed?
Well, I guess on upgrades.
And you know, when you do a, you know, lately you run across a lot of updates and upgrades.
I don't know why, I mean, I don't think it's slow either.
But this just seems to be pretty cool.
This sounds like the one in Pac-Man that replaces Pac-Man in Arch.
When you do an upgrade, it will download more than one at a time.
It'll download them parallel rather than serially.
Yeah, that's what I got out of this article.
Pac-Man Wiki or the Arch Wiki has a command in it that you can add to the system.
That was the same thing, but I can't remember what the name is.
I told you hard to find it.
So if you run an Arch, you might want to look it up.
Do you ever heard of Axel?
I have not.
Now, it sounds pretty cool, though.
Yeah, like I said, I just stumbled across this and thought, well, it might be something people might be interested in.
I would say it would be good for somebody with limited bandwidth, you know.
And like Peter who was on time, you know, he has a certain amount of time a month.
This must speed up updates.
Do you remember that we talked about something a long time ago?
How am I going to let him scratch where it would like, it turned like, what, like, was that kid,
but it used file sharing?
Do you remember that?
Yeah, I do.
Fagally.
Where you would like download, or it would be like a bit torn, I think, maybe.
Were you able to download from like hundreds of people at a time?
Yeah.
Which explains it almost seems that way.
I mean, I don't know how they would do it in any other ways.
I mean, unless they're picking up multiple mirrors, but, you know,
like I said, I never got into this axle program.
I guess that would be the thing that would tell you the most about it.
Yeah, it's pretty neat.
Something different, but I just like things the way they're supposed to be.
You know what I mean?
Well, this would be something to try on a different machine.
Powerpill studs is saying powerpill, does that sound familiar?
Hey, that's, yeah, that's the one.
And if I read it, right, it's really only effective on, you know,
when you're downloading or upgrading multiple files,
because it will pull several files at the same time.
And when it's, well, that actually makes it work something like,
you would have with a torrent.
Yeah, that's what it seems to be.
Like I said, if it speeds up the download, then.
Well, it'll let you use what bandwidth you got.
You know, most of these mirrors are a lot of them anyway,
only allow 50 kilobyte second downloads.
And so, you know, you're taking multiple files,
you can use up your bandwidth a whole lot faster
and get it over and down with.
Yeah, especially if you're upgrading a couple of machines.
You know, if you're not doing it through a network upgrade.
So, are you going to test it out for us?
I, yes, I will.
And I will report back.
You see any IRC one day that smoke, I draw smoke signals
or something, you'll know what happened.
I would definitely test it out.
Maybe I'll put Ubuntu back on something else
and then do the update that should download about 100 packages.
Yeah, I just see they released Linux Mint 8.
I'll try it on that.
Yeah, I've seen it on DistroWatch, just the newest one, I think, right?
For today.
Yeah, I like Mint.
I'm a good luck with it on a couple of machines.
Yeah, that's what I throw on people's computers that are new to Linux.
It has everything on it, I mean.
Even though it's not right.
Well, it depends on what the definition of right is.
You know, I mean, if you want them to use it,
certainly kind of save you to phone calls of,
how come I can't get YouTube work in there?
I can't watch this video.
I like getting those phone calls.
And I can just go on a religious diet try
about flashes evil.
They seem to be followed up quickly by phone calls or questions.
Thank you.
Let's see.
Go to the door, right?
Yeah, exactly.
When we preach to people about flash and non-free codex,
they look at us like we're crazy people.
People are already looking at me like I'm a crazy person.
Yeah, I don't think it's the free software thing that gets them.
Yeah, that's true.
I forgot.
I look crazy.
Oh, you have all people look crazy.
You don't think about that kind of thing.
I mean, you know Jay Lindsey, but in the windows world,
you don't think about that kind of thing.
You just click next as fast as possible.
Yeah.
Well, this is the first segue.
Speaking of crazy, what do you have for us 330?
Well, I've got two ways I could go with this.
I could talk about the league for programming freedom
or a free software foundation endorsed netbook.
Yeah, that one.
All right.
All right.
The free software foundation is doing this thing.
I'll put the link before I get to into this.
Which one did we pick?
Oh, everybody said that one.
So I figured it was the last one.
Somebody yelled out they both sound boring.
Who is that?
I don't know.
I don't know.
That's me.
Rude.
That is actually pretty cool.
The free software foundation has this endorsement program
called Protect Your Freedom.
So this was announced in the free software foundation newsletter.
But in December, there's going to be a netbook run in Gadoosense.
And on the packaging, there'll be a little sticker that says Protect Your Freedom.
And they're hoping that it will become like the Vista compatible
and all those retarded labels.
But it'll respect your freedom that you said.
It's a protection.
In the article, it says it both ways.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's a netbook running Gadoosense.
And everything will work without any proprietary drivers or anything like that.
And they hope that the symbol will let people know that, you know,
here's hardware and software that will not restrict you in any way and have fun with it.
I'm all for that.
But I have a cylinder.
There's going to be a hundred and fifty two hundred dollar plus price tag for it.
These things are never cheap.
So where does this netbook come from?
Like, I mean, what company is making it?
You know, I mean, like, the hardware.
The first product will be announced in December.
But they're announcing the program ahead of time so that they can coax people like me into talking about it.
Right.
But who, like I mean, does it say who's making the hardware?
I mean, I assume that FFF is not sitting there making computers.
Oh, no, they're not building anything.
From what I read, no, they don't have any information on that.
Okay.
They're not going to be like MacBooks or anything?
Modified.
I severely doubt it.
I mean, I don't know.
It might not be that expensive.
You know, you don't really know.
I'm all for it.
As long as the prices are competitive.
Right.
Yeah.
And I needed a netbook.
I would definitely go for it.
You mean you wouldn't buy the new Google netbook that they're going to come out with?
That's going to be free.
Yeah.
Google is just going to give those away.
If they are, I'll take one.
Does they're making $3.8 billion a quarter?
Office.
Nothing.
The first thing I do is wipe the drives clean and put Debian on it.
Yep.
I was thoroughly, thoroughly, thoroughly unimpressed or underwhelmed, I guess would be the term.
Well, with the Chrome OS, sneak peeks or whatever.
Or maybe it was Chrome OS.
I don't know.
Well, it's just one guy I was listening to on, was it, not a touch screen or one on the podcast I was listening to.
Maybe it was a, the Borex might have been his cranky geeks there.
He was talking about it.
And he said that the guy said, well for my mom and dad, it would be great because all they do is search the web and do email.
It would be the ideal netbook for them.
Because they couldn't get them to help in any trouble.
The only thing I can think of that would suck about the whole thing is being stuck inside the Google verse.
Yeah, but you don't work.
So you don't know anything about the corporate people that use things like that.
Well, I don't, I don't know any corporate people other than Chad.
They use Google stuff because most of them are afraid of Google having all of that, you know, all of their sensitive corporate information.
Maybe the business people I know are just crazy.
No, I mean, in my limited experience, 330, I've had the same, and very limited experience.
But that's the people, the corporation that I worked for didn't want any of their information with Google either.
Everything was done internally.
Female is supposed to be quite a hot number in the corporate world now.
Like I said, the other people I know that, well, it's really big in schools.
But I don't know any corporate people that are using Gmail for your domain.
Almost every school I know is, but that's usually because they're extremely lazy.
Yeah, I can't see a corporation using Gmail.
There would be no way for the company to actually spy on their employees.
Because the employee could just change their password, right?
I don't know because they have a corporate version of that.
Oh, that's right. I forgot.
That's right. They do have like Google Enterprise or something, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Totally forgot about that.
Yeah, I tried to set it up once.
You actually have to already have an infrastructure set up before you can actually use it.
And you have to know what your IP address is, right?
Yeah.
You have to know a lot more than that.
For someone who was setting up a network for the first time, it was a huge pain in the ass.
I can imagine.
And now I'm just glad that I couldn't.
This is before I had had my Google epiphany.
It doesn't matter if you used wireless, they're listening anyway.
Well, not online.
256-bit encrypted AES.
Yeah, go ahead.
I dare you.
I was waiting for art.
Oh, I'm not going to say it.
Oh, I think you're going to...
Oh, yeah.
Well.
And then I was going to break it up and then move in.
Oh, no, no.
Dang it.
That was my segue.
Sorry.
I'm sending back to a neutral corner.
They mean art prefer fighting in public, in actual public yet together.
It's like a cox fight.
Oh.
Yeah, yeah.
Except for it's a little different.
I don't think we want to discuss that on air, but it's a little different.
Well, it's time to move on before this gets serious.
It's time for everybody got their story in, right?
What about Jay Lindsay?
Yeah.
You're not supposed to talk to yourself.
Oh, sorry.
Jay Lindsay didn't have one today.
I thought he was just like tell on people who did it.
Proud about, proud about.
All right.
Time for a command of the week.
Asmeth, you were up first.
I think we're going to write a tough theme song for the command of the week.
I keep waiting for one, but nothing yet.
So you just used the Latinx crank theme?
Yeah, I went on.
Yeah, go ahead and play it now.
Here we go.
You like that?
Oh, so is it right now.
Still important on music, though.
Yeah.
Well, crank is kind of like porn.
All right.
Command of the week.
Asmeth, you're first.
Okay.
Well, this is for a simple HTTP server.
And go ahead and post that in the IRC.
Basically, you just set up an alias.
And call it web share.
The alias is for pop.
It's an import simple HTTP server.
I don't know.
Well, it's in there.
It's in the IRC.
You can see the punctuation and get the syntax right on it.
But what this is is a temporary server,
which will start a server on local host.
On port 8,000 that you can use from anywhere.
But you can use anywhere that can get to your IP address.
You got 330 appreciates to the IP address of your machine
that you set it up on.
And whether, you know, if you have a whole three router
that can access that port, it can be accessed from the web,
or you can use it on your land.
And where this simple server is really nice is,
you know, if you have a lot of files that you want to mess with
and you can just use your web browser to browse through them
and pick out the ones you want to download.
It's particularly nice if you have a file
that you want somebody to be able to get
or you start to server up and they can get the file
and once it's got what you just hit Ctrl-C
and it's all over with.
And you close your machine back up
so that, you know, you don't need any security
or anything else on it.
It's just for temporary use.
Get in, get out, don't make a big deal about it.
It's like giving somebody a temporary user, right?
Yeah.
Now what do you have to do?
Oh, sorry again.
Well, once you set the web, you know,
you set the alias up,
you just CD into whatever directory you want to serve
and type web share on the command line.
And it's there, it'll pop up
and it'll tell you that it started on IP 0.0, 0.0, 0.0,
or 0.0, 480, or 480,
and that'll be a local host on your machine.
And you can check it out with your own browser,
you know, put up Firefox and just type in local host,
480, or you get an 80, 480,
and there it is.
In order to let someone, like if I was setting this up
and you asked them to come get a file
out of the punch hole in my firewall, is that correct?
Yeah, you'd have to have a hole in your firewall
that somebody can get there,
but if you don't have a hole in your firewall,
you just use this on your LAN.
Right, right.
Okay, cool.
And, you know, I won't say if you have several files,
you know, in one directory,
and maybe a file in another directory that you want somebody to get.
Well, as soon as they get in the one directory,
you can take control, see, move to the other directory
that has the other files and just type wet,
share, and it'll serve that directory.
Where you could just make a folder
and copy and paste them both into a folder,
and just let them take the folder, right?
Well, if you want to do all that,
or if you just want to let them get them where they are
and not worry about it,
I find, you know, I get to copy and things around,
the folders I end up with, folders with duplications of everything in them.
David, do you have to change permissions on a folder then?
No, this, don't worry about permissions.
This should go.
This is, like I say, this is completely unsecure,
so you want to run it all the time,
but for a quick, get in and get out situation,
it couldn't be simpler.
Sounds great, like if you wanted somebody to pick some pictures of,
or something like that.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
Exactly.
It'd be a whole lot nicer than, you know,
sending them to Dropbox to pack them up.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, that would work really nice.
That's a mess with that.
And if you got Python on your machine,
you should have this.
The simple server should be there.
Oh, that's cool.
So it's like part of Python, just by default.
Yeah.
Oh, cool.
It's in Python 2.6 anyway.
Okay.
And that's it.
Sweet.
Yeah, that's cool.
Oh, wait a minute.
That isn't either it.
I need to give, I need to do.
You could not, you could thank Foss Cass for that one.
And anybody that's not promoted with Foss Cass,
they are some of the best tutorials.
I've seen since Chet went away.
Chess Griffin went away, rather.
Yeah, I think I talked about Foss Cass
on an X-Cranx or something.
Yeah.
Maybe on the Yickford kit or something.
Yeah, it was on one of our shows
that somebody mentioned it.
And I went over and got the whole batch of them.
He's got about 11 tutorials over there.
And they're all, they're video tutorials,
but they're screen videos,
not pictures of these beautiful face, you know.
Right.
You can follow through and they're really easy to understand.
It's good at explaining what he's doing
and makes it simple and easy,
really impressed and need to giving the credit on this.
Foss Cass, oh, Cass, sorry.
Foss Cass.
Foss Cass.com.
Yeah, F-O-S-S-C-A-S-T-S.com.
Got it.
Yes, 13 of them here so far.
Nice dog.
Yeah.
Got a hog.
Nice.
Oh yeah, they are all, you know.
That's nice.
IP tables.
Oh, we're working on them in school.
Oh my God.
A lot of good stuff on here.
Oh, yeah.
Yes.
It's all good.
I mean, you know, we'll freak on a VM on an Apple machine,
but he does a great job on Linux.
Well, it's just that command.
It's a nice command, too.
Yeah, that was a cool one.
Yes.
That's a really nice command.
Well, the one command he got in there that's really nice
for Ubuntu users is everybody that I ever run a Ubuntu has always
done an app yet.
Forget to put pseudo in front of it.
Okay.
And rather than, rather than, you know,
go back up and pull it out and go to the first line and add pseudo.
All you got to do is just type pseudo bang bang and not.
And it will pull the last command that had up and put it in, right?
Yeah, just add it on.
Yeah, that's, I read that one time back.
Yeah, see, that's one of those commands that you forget.
Now, very nice.
Yeah, very nice.
Let's, let's move on to J-man.
Yeah, not quite as exciting as the last one.
But I found this program pretty interesting.
It's called P info.
Now, the info pages are probably installed on your system
and they're probably taking up space anyway.
So, why not put them to use?
And most people don't like the default info program
because it has a very Emax-like interface.
It uses the Emax shortcut keys.
And it just doesn't look great.
But P info puts you in a links style interface.
And you're forward in the back arrow keys
that you navigate through the documentation.
And you've got some VI style navigation.
That's B.
P info, just B.
I-N-F-O.
Right.
Okay, because I have to, it's not on the bug too wide default then.
It's not on a slide for a wide default either from what I can call.
You got to do according to this.
You got to do a pseudo-app get.
According to the library, you have to go to the site
and download the source code and compile it.
I do think it's pretty unfortunate that not a lot of people
would use the info pages.
I think it's not great.
I think it's mostly a problem with the interface.
How do you access them?
Did you say this P info makes it better, right?
That's the single download that that's for sure.
Yeah, actually they have it in the FBOPKG.
Oh, nice.
It's actually quite easy to install.
There you go.
Yeah, that's pretty nice.
You really know how to pick them.
I don't know, we should probably wrap up the show
but we'll give Cloud 2 a chance to top that one.
Oh, there's no way I can pop that one.
But this is kind of useful.
There are a couple of people who are asking me
how to find files on Linux.
And I know that there's things like Beagle and stuff like that.
I never use those things really.
So it turns out there's the Find command.
And I mean, Find is a pretty big command.
I realize that and a lot of people know how to use it really, really well
and they can integrate it into all kinds of cool bash commands
that do all kinds of crazy things.
But just in terms of actually utilizing it
to just find some file that maybe you've misplaced
or you download something and you're not really sure where it went.
There are a couple of different options that you can use with Find.
The easiest one is simply find your home directory.
So find tilde and then dash type F meaning that it's just a normal file
and then dash iName giving it in case instances name
and then just in single quotes, you know, whatever kind of file it is,
like wildcard.og in closed single quote.
And that will find within your home directory a file with the name
that ends in dot log or whatever.
And you can do all kinds of little switches onto that,
like giving it a certain date of creation time
or what user it belongs to or, you know,
just all kinds of little qualifiers to help you narrow down your search.
But just generally speaking for me at least find tilde dash type F, dash iName
and then whatever the name, whatever part of the name I know
to look for pretty much works for me.
So it's an easy way to find things.
Very nice. Can you put that formula in the chat room?
Yeah.
Just makes it easier for the show notes.
Yeah.
All right. Very handy. Anything else?
Not for me.
What's the difference between Find and Locate?
Locate, I think, uses a little database on the back end.
I believe, whereas Find, I believe, just literally is almost like a grab.
I could be wrong on both of those things.
Oh, no. That sounds like Sound Chaser agrees with me.
He says locate uses and indexed database.
Yeah. Usually the update DB command is run from a cron job at night.
That's what I thought.
Yeah.
And you would want to use Find if, you know,
the files are newer than the database that was created.
So it's in something you put on there today.
All right. Got you.
I mean, I guess you can also do, like, some kind of,
with, you know, you could go to the root of your home folder
or the basic your home folder and then do, like, a list, dash,
L, wild card, and then grab what you think you're looking for
so that you're, like, looking through all the directories
in your home folder or whatever that would be.
But I don't know if Find just is a much simpler command for me.
And it's a lot easier to tell other people how to use it, I think,
rather than trying to come up with some fancy, you know,
descend into recursive search through all of your directories
and piping that into grab.
So I just use Find, or actually I don't use it that often,
but some people, some people, after asking me how they can find stuff.
So that's what I've been telling them to use.
And it's been working pretty well.
I want to thank the chat room because
I've got some good explanations going on here.
Yeah, no kidding.
Yeah, so I'll chase you and make another good point.
If you don't get the options right for the LS,
you don't get the full path.
So you've found the file, but you still have no idea
where the file is potentially.
Okay, we're fine.
On the LS, well I was saying that you remember,
I said you could do like an LS-LAR wildcard.org pipe grip, you know, whatever.
You wouldn't get the full path of that.
So find, it gives you a really nice output.
It's like, here's everything that ends in, for instance,
about org, you know, like here's exactly where it is on your ship,
on in your folder.
It's an absolute path, right?
Is it the absolute path?
Yep, yep.
See, I'm learning.
I want to be just doing an open invitation for people to call in.
Wow, look at that.
I thought we could end the show with some call-ins.
You're a good idea.
Yeah, we don't have that guy from the other side of the country
that nobody can understand.
Yeah, as soon as somebody calls NP, we just talk about something else.
Yeah, you know, eat, eat, talk about kangaroos or boaten or something like that.
Or a digna steal on his baby.
Eating or stealing?
Well, I assume they steal it and then eat it.
I doubt there anything right there in the crib.
I would be a little uncomfortable.
Use it for toy.
I don't know if you want to use Australian because it's toys.
If he ever comes to the state, he's probably going to punch you.
I have a problem.
Hey, he's already offered a hit on you, so...
You weren't supposed to tell him that.
Well...
I might as well keep him jumping.
He don't know which one of us took the hit.
Don't worry, 330.
I can't wait to meet you itself again.
Well, we do have a caller, sound chaser.
All right.
Hello, hello.
Hello.
There he is.
Hello. How's it going, guys?
Good, how are you?
I'm not bad.
I'm trying to figure out why sound chaser so slow.
Thank you for the info on IRC there.
Oh, no problem.
So you got any good news for us?
Good news, well...
Okay, you got any news?
Well, our situation seems to have evolved back into discussing Pron again
when you looking for duplicate files.
That's right, that's right.
Which work came in this afternoon?
So it's all your fault.
Yeah.
Actually, this is also a guy who saves a Gen 2 system using the fine command.
He actually had to go through, he was trying to restore a backup
and the tarval was telling him that he had future dates on his system.
So he had to go and touch every file on his system
to put the dates back to a previous date.
Oh, that looks like a future date of it.
He has no idea.
That's the beauty of backing up, I think.
Yeah, he had the backup, but he couldn't restore it.
Yeah, so I don't know how many people have either begged me or paid me to go
and fix their, you know, recover it from like a botched backup process.
Not on Linux though, but backing up and recovering from backup seems to be a sort of a chore sometimes.
So isn't that the first thing they teach you and make sure your backup is good?
Yep.
Yeah, but it's so hard to get people to backup at all,
much less to actually check the date if it's working.
Yeah, a place that I work at actually goes through a disaster recovery drill every year.
I think it is.
And guess what we have to do?
We have to rebuild servers from backups.
Nice.
If we can't do that, then let's kind of a failure.
Absolutely.
You're doing off-site backups on the tape or...
They're on-site backups on the tape, but then they get archived off-site.
And then the disaster recovery.
Yeah, they're stored in a secure wall.
Right.
So you can get to them pretty easy then.
They can get to them.
We can't just employees directly.
We can't get to them.
Right.
You actually have to have clearance actually get to them.
And what did they do?
Did they do a restore from both off-site and the tape that makes sure they both worked or just wanted the other?
What we have is basically a co-level location that we actually restore the tape at that site
to a whole different set of servers from remote locations.
Are we talking Unix servers or...
We are talking all of them.
We're talking Unix Linux.
The name we don't say.
The N word.
Yes, that's the N word.
We may even have an A word in there too.
Oh no.
Really?
They use that software?
There is actually a few A word servers in the company.
Yeah, those are probably the couple of the only ones in the world.
And they use the latest version?
I have no idea.
I've got nowhere near that stuff.
So...
I didn't know I'm only making server software.
Yeah.
Yeah, they've...
It's not a well-known fact we have to do.
It's ironic that both places I've worked at where I've been a server administrator has actually had A servers.
Wow.
It's a prize buy.
We don't want to spread that around.
Yeah.
Well, they've also only had like two or three total.
Doesn't matter.
That's two or three too many.
Well, compared to the 1,500 other servers.
Yeah.
You just had to drop in the bucket.
Yeah.
What's there reason for it running that?
Do you know the...
I don't even...
I don't even...
I'd think...
It's the...
My previous company, it was specifically for multimedia applications.
Graphics, right?
Yeah.
Publication, printing, stuff like that.
At this company, I don't know why.
Interesting.
So, yeah.
Interesting challenge.
It's not just a job.
It's an adventure.
And sometimes it's more than that.
Like, I got a call from my boss on Wednesday while I was driving to my parent's house for Thanksgiving.
Wanting me to look at an email.
So, you're not allowed to look at your phone while you're driving?
Oh.
He got lucky.
He caught me when I stopped to get gas.
I still make it noise.
I can't talk to you right now.
After it wasn't a good time to do that.
They're just in the process of hiring me on permanently from being on contract with them.
I thought that wouldn't be too impressive.
But the fun and ironic part of the whole thing was I couldn't check my email because this is hiring me on permanently.
Well, they actually made me a final offer.
The day my contract ended and my account expired.
So, he's calling me the day after my account expired and said,
Hey, can you look at his email?
Sorry, I got stopped some place where I actually had a Wi-Fi connection that tried to get in and I called him and said,
no, I can't look at it.
Sorry.
So, they get for waiting for the last minute?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Well, it must be good because you're still working there, so.
Yep.
Good enough, at least.
That was your job.
That's the important part.
Let me ask you something.
What kind of certificates were they looking for when you went and applied there?
They were not looking for certificates.
My manager as a person actually I interviewed with two managers at the company.
And both of them were reasonably technical.
And literally the first interview I went for was actually a slightly different job than what I'm in.
It was actually more of an architecture position.
And so the manager that interviewed me there basically gave me a scenario that was to design a system that they had just done.
And he, I mean, actually I had to diagram it out whole thing.
And then he compared it against what they had as a proposal.
And I was within, I think, two or three things different.
It was only because they didn't know certain things about their network environment.
Very nice.
Do they run, do they run intrusion detection systems on there?
Oh, yeah.
Yes, they have.
IPSs and everything.
Yeah.
Well, in fact, one of the things I'm in charge of is the RSFTP server.
And until you went over, you believe in Korea or Asia or some place, you keep trying to break in.
And it's kind of funny to watch it happen.
Is this the old honey bottom yet?
Yeah, well, you know, this guy's never going to get in.
He's throwing standard dictionaries of words that are server.
Oh, all right.
And it ain't going to happen.
Nice to watch that, isn't it?
Oh, it gets hilarious.
I mean, I go through the logs every day and probably a twice a week.
Also, one of the logs will be just huge.
I'll go and look, and there'll be, you know, 22,000 log in attempts.
I need to see, just break on the list, oh, alphabetical.
Yeah, that's neat to look at.
Well, the funny thing about it is, it kind of even changes IP address between attempts.
So they're all going to the same IP address.
It's got amateur hour, you know?
Yeah, he's got a program to do it.
I mean, it's just running.
Yeah, the only thing he does is he changes dictionaries occasionally.
Fix up a different file, right?
Yep.
I'm going for some certificates now.
I just went through the red hat.
I really call it the quick pass, the quick start program for certification.
This week we had the class.
I was fighting off an upper respiratory infection.
So I literally go in the class all day, come home, pass out, get up at 5.30 in the morning,
and go back to the next class.
You'll say, by the end of that week, I wasn't doing so hot.
I stepped down and took the test, passed the certified technician part of it,
and completely botched the certified engineer part of it.
Like, to the point where I hit enter and went,
don't!
Because I knew what I had done was wrong.
And basically did something to a file system you should never do.
Yeah, boy.
I'm starting this.
Let's go.
Let's just go courses in a month.
Oh, fun.
Yeah.
Actually, it's not bad because I know a couple guys that are already going through them,
that kind of give me heads up on what's asked for.
Yeah, I tell you.
Redhead.
They try to put the fear of God into you about that stuff.
I mean, they tell you, if you talk about any of the content on the test or anything,
they will be angry certification and they may even sue you.
Cheers.
Yeah.
So that's why my very vague description of what I did during the exam is what I gave you
because that's all I can.
Yeah, yeah.
But, you know, a lot of it is out there anyway, you know.
Mm-hmm.
If you want to find the information, you can find it.
Oh, yeah.
To retake that test, is it going to cost you the full price?
Yep, it's going to cost the full price.
Well.
But fortunately, if I pass, it's my work will reimburse me for it.
But it won't be out.
So I won't be out 750 bucks for it.
And since it took the class at the company,
I didn't have to pay the 2500 for the class.
The company sponsored the class.
Yep.
Before I end this thing, that is your nickname, right?
Sound Chaser?
Yep, that's it.
All right, you a musician?
No, but that's the name of an old YEP song.
I was going to ask if that's where you got it from.
Yep, that's it.
Cool.
That's a great song.
Great band.
Great song.
You'll never hear another song like that one from them.
Yeah.
So you guys ready for Terry Huff's Song of the Week?
Oh, yeah.
That's our new segment for the end now.
Oh, song of the week.
I have no idea what it is.
Fantastic.
As long as you don't let Dan pick him.
Yeah, exactly.
See you guys in a couple of weeks for a radio.
That's a very satisfying one.
All right.
Good night, guys.
Good night, everybody.
Good night.
Hey, everybody.
Call recording has been completed.
Hey, this is Terry from the Jewish Pagwin.
And I'm here to end tonight's tip radio with a song.
No, I'm not going to sing unless you want me to.
This is a band named Cactus with a song called Shine.
I think even Peter 64 might like this one.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Well, we're reckless.
Out on her own.
I'm gonna speed it up.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
It makes it
a lot of noise.
Like a dog.
Down and low.
Like a Destiny, like a spirits building.
Like a police.
Like a camera.
I'm gonna like a Planet.
And take you down there.
I just want to belong to Bob.
Oh, yeah.
It's off of our ice.
Oh, yeah.
Like a black hair, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Oh, yeah Oh, yeah, yeah
You found me
Your million
Come on ho
Says she presses out own blush
Well, I don't feel like a man, I'm not too strong
I'm holding on so bad, oh, oh, woman, dead in the rip
Dead in the rip
I've got you hunter-sale, in certain arrived
It's apparent, shutter, shutter, shutter, estamos
Shush, shush, shush, shush, shush, shush ..
It's shining bright
Shush, shush, shush
I'm feeling a lot better, I'm feeling a lot better
I'm feeling a lot better, I'm feeling a lot better
I'm going to get on my way back
I'm going to get on my way back
I'm going to get on my way back
I'm going to get on my way back
I'm going to get on my way back
I'm going to get on my way back
I'm going to get on my way back
I'm going to get on my way back
I'm going to get on my way back
I'm going to get on my way back
I'm going to get on my way back
Thank you for listening to Haftler Public Radio
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net
She'll head on over to C-A-R-O-DOT-N-E-C for all of her dreams
Thanks for listening to Haftler Public Radio
Thank you for watching
