Episode: 955
Title: HPR0955: Zombie Circus 00 - Pilot
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0955/hpr0955.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 05:34:00

---

Warning, this show is not family or work safe. This show may contain strong language,
nudity and sexual content.
I guess this looks like I don't get pregnant, I'm probably alright.
Well, we haven't seen anything about pregnancy having to be involved at this point.
Really, I just have this ongoing fear of becoming pregnant.
Well, the pregnancy really isn't the problem. The birth is what concerns me.
Okay, I got one question. That should be a real concern if you actually become pregnant.
And after birth.
I have a question too. What the hell is wrong with you?
With who?
With 330.
I thought 330.
I am. That's what the birth concerns me about. I'm not plumbed that way.
Where the hell is it going to try to come out of?
How to get in there in the first place?
Well, TJ, when a guy and me love each other very much in the back of a 67 chaveau.
I thought it was supposed to be a camera.
Yeah, it's a 93 camera.
That's only if the person's orange.
Yeah, as a method, Peter, are you sure you want to do this?
I'm pretty sure I don't.
Yeah, I can't blame you.
That's what she said.
Maybe I'll just go back on mute and lend you my moral support here.
I'm thinking I'm probably going to need some more Irish coffee before this whole thing even gets started.
Since you've been talking about Irish coffee for like the last four hours.
Now, when you say Irish coffee, do you mean coffee with some Bailey's in it?
Or are you talking proper Irish coffee?
I'm talking real Irish coffee, dude.
I get a shot of Jameson's and Bailey's in my coffee.
I don't just do the weak stuff.
Okay, because you said you made a pot of it.
And I'm thinking that's at least a fifth of whiskey.
Well, I don't know what's a fifth.
It's actually three cups per pot and so there'll be three shots.
So it's not proper Irish coffee?
Well, if you're going to say that you need to have a fifth of whiskey and a pot of coffee, no, it's not proper at that point.
But it's proper enough in that, you know, a shot every 12 ounces of coffee.
That's what I'd say pretty proper.
Look, if you can't light that coffee on fire, you're not doing it right.
If it won't cause you to fight a loved one in the backyard, you're not doing it right.
Alcohol in general does not make me combative, so that's actually not going to fly.
And Peg, well, I probably could actually light this coffee on fire.
Sandy, your problem is that you aren't Irish.
Actually, as I am somewhere around 75 to 85% Irish.
Most people are the Irish or the beagles of humanity.
They'll screw anything.
Except you 330.
I don't know, my girlfriend's Irish.
Which is why they don't have sex ever.
What the hell is going on here?
This shirt has went out of control even faster than you get average episode of KPO.
Have we even started the show?
I don't think we can do any better than this.
I could always do my pikey impression and talk about how much I like dogs and caravans.
Oh boy, it's going downhill.
You like tags, boy?
Sound chaser, do you need to get a refill before we start?
I think I do.
I will be right back.
He fell for it.
All right.
Hey, everybody.
Welcome to the pilot episode.
Welcome to the pilot episode of Zombie Circus.
I'm Monster V.
And let's meet our round table of Zombie Hunters.
Asmeth.
Hey, howdy, howdy, howdy.
Peg wall.
Hello, hello.
Peter 64.
Get out.
330.
Get out.
The orecon of Colonel Pennic Cut Cast, sound chaser.
Where did he go?
I thought you was telling him to get a drink, or something.
Or letting them na, sheltered by lapre breads, didn't you?
Yeah, that's what we used to do the Introduemaker.
Yeah, it brought of.
What should I call the game?
Oh, you got to do the game first, yes?
Should I ask the game?
Oh, the game?
We have to do the game?
What I gotta call a game?
I was thinking about Conn at red rum or short straw or just the game. How about the retard bus?
The short bus. I like that a lot. Which one the short bus or the retard bus? I've returned. Short bus. The one sound chaser's on. I am not on the short bus. Yeah, they just drop him off.
By the way, so Jason, we already started to show you were too late.
What do you think, Peter? You like this show so far?
Yeah, just reminds me of Lenny's craze. We just need designs. Yeah, worst of all, kick.
Well, here's the here's the thing. Okay, the game is called should I call it short bus to be to be nice or should I call it a short bus or retard bus what?
She's not retarded. She's Asian. Had to bring that one back. Just for you, muster me.
Since we were talking about old Linux cranks things. Okay, it's time to play short bus. The zombie circus game. Okay, the game play is simple. You have a choice of three categories. Inside the categories are three things which could be like a person place or thing. You have to tell us which one you would marry, have a one night stand with or murder and why. Now each each category is worth a point or points depending on which category you pick. And these points will be used at the
vote kick. See, that's why we need to play this game because none of us have any votes right now to cast on someone. You did it so far, Peter. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I can earn three points. That's going to give me three votes at the end of the week at the end of the show. Yeah, like say you want to throw them all at sound chaser or split them up. You know, say you want to throw two at three 30 or one at sound chaser. You know what I mean? Good stuff. Yep. Yep. The only problem I see with this is we actually have to remember by the end of the show.
How many votes we actually have? Well, I have a piece of paper I can write on and just write our names down and put a little check marks by our names.
Hi, tech. You have very high tech. So give me about three minutes. I can write our names down.
Three minutes to write our names down. He's got to remember how to use a pen.
That's the problem with being a geek, isn't it? You only know how to use a keyboard and how to do the manual stuff.
I actually at one point had forgotten how to write, I had to write a deposition.
I'm holding a pen, looking at the paper and thinking, huh, I wonder how this works.
The sad part is it took me 45 seconds to figure it out. Okay, you guys ready?
Ready is all ever, babe. Yep, same here. Okay, category one, Lennox distros.
See, that's not too bad. Is it? Category number two, random people on this show.
In category three, podcasters. Number three, I did have, I cleaned it up a little bit.
It was things you stick in your butt.
Podcasters. So I changed it. Okay, let's just go down the list here.
Asmeth, what category would you like?
Give me distros. All right. Arch Lennox, Fedora, and Slackware. And why?
Well, I killed Fedora just on general principles. And I might take a one night stand with Slackware.
And I might marry Arch. Why would you marry Arch?
Well, because you always have something to do with Arch. It's broke all the time.
But it wouldn't take a long time to build that relationship up from the ground up.
Well, I've been dating Arch for a long time anyway.
All righty. Asmeth has one point. Let's go on to Peggy. What do you choose?
I'll be adventurous here and go with podcasters.
All right. This is going to be the rough one. This is a three-pointer.
Door-to-door geek from Lennox Basics. Fab from Lennox Outlaws.
Brian Lunduke from the Lennox Action Show.
Well, this is a well-brainer.
Yeah, well, I would have thought it was like, you have one night stand.
It's got to be door-to-door. You can have a good look at one and a little less.
Three of them. And then you can't shoot the other two, so you just stop.
Hey, I don't want you going to do it.
Oh, no. I think you put up with the one night stand with Fab, you marry,
door-to-door, and you're kidding. I was going to say that, but thank you,
SoundChaser, for stealing my answers. Can I have a new category?
Are you sure? This is a three-pointer.
You know what? I'll just take those answers, screw it.
Well, and that should get everybody else three points so that we can vote Peggy off after a while.
Look, I'm the one that had three free points.
I'm the one that had to marry a dude, then having one night stand with another dude,
then kill another dude. Do you know how much work that is?
It's a regular Thursday night for you, isn't it?
What was your answer again, Peggy?
I guess I'd have to marry door-to-door geek, have a one night stand with Fab,
but I wouldn't call him again because I'd just be weird.
And I probably have to murder Brian.
Poor Brian.
I think you're the one that had about the easiest to be honest with you.
All right, Peter. What category are you going to pick?
I'll take that. Whatever it was left.
What was that? I can't remember.
You can pick another one.
The one that nobody picked out is random people on this show.
Okay, good.
That thing I really want to take.
Give me podcastes again.
Yeah, go ahead. It's the same once.
I didn't think of different ones these times.
Edit that me that.
Give me random people on this show for $50.
Okay, let me pick three random people here.
Sound Chaser, 330, and Monster B.
I don't know why my name's in there, but it's in there.
Well, a big boy, you know,
that man, you've got to have the one night stand.
That's a given, all right?
Then you've got...
Sandy in 330.
No, she's...
I'll go shoot 330.
Just because that would be fun.
This is very creepy.
You don't like it when you get married, buddy.
Well, this is still fucking terrible.
This is so gay.
All right, Peter, you got two points.
All right, Monster B.
I'll step up here and I'm going to take distros again.
All right, give it to us.
Okay, I would murder Fedora.
I would marry Slack and whatever the third one,
oh, Arch, I would have a one night stand with.
The reasoning being that I would go with Slack
wear for the marriage because it's been around the longest.
It's the most stable, so it's priming the most stable relationship.
I would have the one night fleeing with Arch
because hey, it's experimental and it's something you can actually play with.
And I have to murder Fedora because of all the weird changes
and stuff that's going on in that area.
You made a lot of sense, Sandy.
That's not fun.
Yeah, I know.
Isn't that weird?
Good answer.
All right, 330, give it to us.
What category?
All right, well, I'm going to have to take distros to,
you know, to kind of not let Fedora be murdered by swine.
I would marry Fedora because I don't own a single computer
that doesn't have Fedora on it and it is fantastic and I love it.
I would kill Arch because the only people that use it are hipsters.
You monster and I would,
and I would have a one night stand with a slackware.
It's been around.
It's some tricks.
You could probably do some things that you wouldn't want to talk about later,
but you know, would be an experience to have.
So yeah, I would marry Fedora.
I would have a one night stand with slackware and I would kill the hipster distro.
Well, slackware is kind of a slut these days.
All right, you want to pick a category for me, buddy?
Okay.
I'm going podcasters and do you want me to give you three names?
Okay.
Okay, ready?
I'm going double and down, of course, for the Linux like tech show.
I'm going to go rass, rass learner.
What's that?
The techie geek, isn't it?
And let me see if a good one.
I'm going to have to say.
Go on, yeah, definitely go on.
Oh, wow.
Well, one of them's easy.
Yeah, go on automatically.
He's gone, slaughtered.
Man, between Russ and Dan, that's a hard decision.
I know Russ is soothing voice would put me to sleep every night.
Yeah, but you know, Dan's more experienced and crazy things.
But let's make this hard.
The morning after the one night stand, you have to kiss him.
Good boy, too.
Okay, this is getting bad.
Oh, okay, I'm just going to do it quickly to get it over with.
I'm going to say one night stand with Dan and marry Russ.
And trying to think of a reason why, I can't think of what.
I can tell you why.
It'd be easier to kiss Dan goodbye than to have to think about the next night.
That and Russ doesn't have those freaky hobo feet.
All right, I'm glad that's over with.
Let's get on with our topics.
You got anything for us, asthma?
No, I'm just here for moral support.
All right, how about pegwall?
I have two things, actually.
We'll get to him, spanky.
Oh, I thought you was just wondering how many topics I had.
Well, the first one is, okay, what would you guys do if you bought a motorola zoom
and found someone else's personal information on it?
WikiLeaks.
Well, they depend on what information they had on.
I probably just reset the phone and do cares, but why?
What are you getting at?
Some people that bought motorola zooms on woot.com
out of like the roughly 5,000 that were sold,
a hundred of them still had everyone's like,
social networking information, email addresses, everything.
But how many computers get purchased,
you know, with everyone's personal information on it?
I think what is secondhand stuff, is it?
If this is your not talking about brand-new stuff, are you?
No, they were refurbished, but
and also to answer your question,
if you've ever bought a used computer set upon style,
it most likely has the previous owner's personal information on it still.
Yeah, that's right.
So really, I would imagine buying a second hand phone,
and I've actually purchased two in my life.
Yeah, there's heaps of information on them.
I mean, most people don't know how to do the factory reset.
Yeah, but the other thing is here is that these were supposed to be refurbished,
so you would think that someone at motorola would have gone ahead
and made sure these things were wiped before they were sold out.
I mean, these are the guys who actually put this machine to kill these tablets together.
Yeah, I don't know if it's standard how to work,
but I thought refurbished went off to a second-tier company.
I'd say if you took motorols back to motorol,
they just get boxes of them and then hand them over
to someone who beat the boy, take a thousand of them,
so they could do them up and send them out to be refurbished.
I'm not sure how that actually works.
Yeah, that is actually a good point,
because actually one of my laptops,
I think it was an HP laptop,
was actually refurbished by IBM,
because it was actually like an off-contract machine that IBM had leased out.
Picky, does the article actually say anything about
who actually did the refurbishing on these?
No, it doesn't say who, it just says that they may not have been properly reformatted,
and also looking at again, they were sold between October and December of 2011.
100 out of the 6200 that they actually sold weren't wiped out properly.
Well, I must admit that had you asked me
6,000 refurbished units,
I would have thought it would have been a hell of a lot higher than a hundred
that weren't set back to factory defaults.
Pleasant, Peggy, didn't you say it was 1,000 units?
No, it was a hundred of them.
Oh, that's lower than I would have thought.
Yeah, I would have thought like 600 or something.
I would just be worried that someone had put,
let's say child photography on something like that,
and then it gets shipped to you, you don't notice it,
yeah, for some reason, people in suits take notice of you,
and then all of a sudden you find yourself in prison
for some crap you didn't even do.
I don't know, Peggy, I mean, 330.
I would think that if you're into more extreme things,
that you probably actually a lot more paranoid
about other people finding out about it,
you might actually take the time to actually figure out
how to actually wipe the device before you
make your return to it at that point.
Yeah, I'd be really embarrassed if people found the pictures
of me and the horse mask and we what?
Well, then again, there are some other embarrassing pictures
of you out there, Peggy, so I don't know if you can actually
make that claim.
Really?
I've never got a guy spreeced a moment.
Let's say if you've ever known anyone that's worked for like a geek squad
or something like that, they find all kinds of messed up stuff
on computers that people bring in to have serviced.
Yeah, I think the moral of the story is if you're going to
take your phone back to a shop, you put it back, hit that factory default settings
and then take the bloody SD card out of it and when you buy a second hand one,
well, I don't know if you're worried about what's going to be on there.
We'll check it before you walk out of the shop if you're doing
fact-bite as a shop.
I just don't know that it's any surprise, Peggy,
that people are fine on this stuff because we've all dealt with other
people's computers before.
Oh, yes, we have, but most of the average public,
when they buy something like this, they expect to be brand new.
They don't expect other people's information to still be there.
I don't know, actually, more, I think about this.
I've got a really embarrassing story about something that I have actually
happened at one of the companies I used to work for.
And that was that on the laptop of one of the lawyers for the company,
the lawyer's wife had actually slapped a child lockout device on the machine because
the lawyer actually could not get away from going to porn sites and she wanted to make sure
that he stayed away from them.
And when one of the IT guys actually came to work on his machine,
he couldn't actually get into it because there was this lockout device on it.
And he ended up actually having to call the guy's wife to actually get the password
to unlock the machine so he could work on it.
And that's actually a lawyer in a company.
I love that story.
I'm just saying that that is just wonderful.
Yeah, that just about floors you, doesn't it?
Of all the people in a company you would think of the lawyer?
I mean, my god, a lawyer actually has a problem with being obsessed with pornography.
I mean, it can happen to anyone, you know, pegwall or, you know,
anyone of, you know, pegwall comes to mind.
Look, everyone knows that I own a private data center filled with amateur porn.
Oh, so you're the guy who actually runs X videos, Doug.
How do you know?
Damn you, who is data?
You just actually told us.
Yeah, yeah, this shows already start to go way downhill.
And by start, I mean, has been downhill for a while.
Well, the proper thing to do is if it's got kitty porn on it, you call the cops.
And anything else, you just wipe it and start over yourselves.
See, Asmath always has to be the one who's reasonable.
And that's why I need him around.
And actually, I completely agree with Asmath.
Actually, there are some other things as that are pretty extreme.
And I might actually call the cops about as well.
Like pegwall snoodling Peter.
Oh, geez.
Hey, what's your next story?
Look, everyone knows I own a whole data center.
Lord, Peter, what's your favorite day of the week?
Um, how can I choose day?
You're all answered.
Friday.
Why?
Because now you can retire your Hannah Montana Linux and go with Rebecca Black Linux.
Oh, tell me more.
Now, if that was Claudia Black, I might go for that.
Basically, it's just a live CD, you know, themed with Rebecca Black.
And it uses the the Whalen display server.
I'm not submit.
I don't know who Rebecca Black is.
But last time I looked at Whalen, there was nothing more than a square bouncy on the screen.
I take it as come a little bit further lately.
And for people who don't know, listen to this.
Whalen is going to
fun fun.
Replace the X server.
I understand it.
Also, reading more of this article, I found out that there's also Justin Bieber Linux.
I don't want to live on this planet anymore.
What do you got against the beam?
He killed all the fish in my fish tank.
Much better if you look at Whalen at all.
No, I haven't.
I still think it's going to help a lot of development to go yet.
I don't even know if it's in a much testing if you can even get it.
I think it's only available as demos anyway.
Yeah, I'm using a Debian stable right now.
So it'll probably take four or five years to get to it.
I'd say more like 10.
You can actually get it out of your way with I don't think I'd be trying to just yet.
I might just sell out a virtual machine and install Arch in that
entroid of Whalen server.
If I did upgrade to systems D day the other day,
and it seems to be running pretty well,
although Fedora has had a sense of Fedora 15, I think.
Peter, if you actually go ahead and upgrade to Wheelland,
I'd love to see if you can check out like VNCE and some other things
under there and see if those actually work,
because I'm kind of curious about that at this point.
Yeah, I don't think that we'll see.
Like, that's one thing you're going to,
Whalen doesn't have, and I think they're going to build it as modules on top,
as the network transparency where you can
like use SSH dash X and everything like that.
But I think it's a long way for being mature enough to actually use on a day-to-day basis, yes.
Yeah, and that's one of the concerns I have actually,
other things I was just setting up at work,
was actually a way for, we actually have to have some offshore people
actually be able to go ahead and connect remotely into some work stations,
and actually go ahead and do basically like the remote desktop connection type thing.
So I was actually using combinations of VNCE for some people,
and an actual X or for other people to actually connect in.
Well, do I understand that though that you can run a virtual X server inside Whalen?
So therefore you've got backwards compatibility with the X server.
So does that mean you should be able to run everything now
with inside that virtual server inside Whalen?
Yeah, I remember hearing something like that, and I actually kind of question that
because, okay, so if you have applications that are written to run under Whalen,
or you have ones that actually just restrict themselves to whatever APIs are available in Whalen,
will they still actually run under X, and then you can actually run an X server under there
and still run those applications and be able to connect to them?
I was really, really fuzzy on that whole point.
Yeah, I think it needs to get the J-Manta in store,
but if he hasn't already, and tell us what it's like.
Yeah, I kind of hope the J-Mant can actually take a look at that too.
So what's our next topic?
Well, a month to be, I've got one if you want.
Yeah, it's your turn, big boy.
This is sort of carried on from back in the tip days with my astronomical thing.
I don't know if you've recall I talked about that Galaxy Zoo,
and what the Galaxy Zoo was, there was the robotic telescopes of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey
that went around imaging galaxies, and then all the pictures were put up on the internet,
and then you, as a human being, got to go in and classify them.
Now, it was pretty basic to start off with, you were just saying, you know,
whether it looked like a cigar, whether it was a spiral galaxy, how many arms it had,
whether it was going like clockwise or counterclockwise, do you remember that?
Well, even if you don't, this week, the one I was looking at is called Planet Hunters.org.
Now, if you did happen to listen to the Colonel Panagogcast, you would have heard us talking about
the Kepler spacecraft and Kepler-22B, I think it is the Earth-like planet they just found
or one of the many.
Well, with Planet Hunters.org, you get to go and have a look at all the Kepler data.
Now, what happens is, what you're doing is looking for the sharp dips in the brightness of stars.
That's what Kepler is doing.
And when you look through all this data, that you start to see a regular pattern,
and that's as the actual brightness of the star dips as a planet does a transit across the front of it.
Now, it's easy enough for computers to pick out like big planets that are blocking out a
fair bit of the sun's life, but it's a smaller Earth-like planets that the transit points get lost,
you know, they're buried in the noise of the white curve, but us with our eyes can go through and
we can quite easily pick these out.
So, if anyone wants to have a go at it, they have it to Planet Hunters.org.
And it's pretty cool, you know, just looking at this data because this Kepler is imaging 150,000
stars all at once. So, there's a hell of a lot of data out there to go through.
I'll just post a link in the forum for you.
That actually really looks pretty cool. The only thing I saw that was kind of weird was
one of the screenshots I was actually doing on a man.
Ah, well, yeah, I mean, you can do it on anything.
It's just, I thought I mean your browser. So, I mean, if you're sitting at the bus line,
you could probably lay the battery and draw a phone and just pull up some of the data
through and, you know, you just circle what you think is apparent to it.
Yeah, and I'll just go teasing Peter.
Have you ever tried the game? I just found this one yesterday. It's called Moonbase Alpha.
It's developed by NASA.
Oh, no, I can't say that I have. Have we got a site for it?
Yeah, it's a pretty long link. I'll just post it in the ARC.
Yeah, I found this one yesterday and I didn't get a chance to try it out yet.
Oh, and it's only available for Windows. There's no Linux client.
I have to give it a try under one. So, what happens?
I've had pretty good luck with one from the most part.
That's why I was just going to ask if someone was going to trade over under one.
Yeah, I, I, um, but whenever I get a game, not that I'm going to be a gamer,
but the first thing I always try, I give it a go in one.
I really hate to have to fire up bloody Windows just to have a look at something.
I think the only thing I ever run under one was actually like Microsoft Office applications
because the job that I really hated actually required that I actually use Microsoft Office garbage.
So, but I would be curious to see if like Moonbase Alpha actually runs under wine
because that actually kind of looks cool.
So, get back to you on that. So, I'll download it after the show and give it a try.
Yeah, I never, never had much luck with wine. I mean, I,
it's like all the games were sluggish and I had to like, reduce the resolutions
just to keep the frame rates up. And, you know, I mean, the games work,
but they just weren't like, it just didn't seem like a hundred percent.
I've actually come across situations where games have, and I'll give you, for instance,
and I've mentioned this before that my asset helicopter simulation, which is called Cleview,
that runs perfect under wine, actually runs better under wine than it does under my Windows.
So, that's interesting. Sometimes I've had, I tried that portal under wine,
and the graphics and everything, it ran nice. I just couldn't get any bloody sound under it.
Yeah, I got, I got portal to run too on wine. And it ran decent, but I had to reduce the
resolutions down to like 1280. And so, you know, doing the full 1080p, I had to drop it down to 1280 by
1024 or something like that. Yeah, right. I tried that battle zone.
And it said, on one HQ, it said, I think it gave it a gold rating. As soon as I went to start
of the menus, it was just come out with a black screen, so I couldn't get that to run at all.
This actually kind of goes back to the topic I've been kind of thinking about for just a little bit,
and a little bit of input on it. I actually run a dual screen setup here, and I was starting to
think earlier today that maybe I should go back to just one larger monitor instead of the,
as a set of two monitors, just so I can see if the, the, the frame rates and that would actually
stay up, it would actually work better. I don't know if that would affect it, would it
send me? I don't know. Danny, instance of a dual monitor, as I run, as I run, you know, a projector
in my 24 inch monitor on my desktop, but I wouldn't have thought it would affect, like you're talking
about playing a game on one monitor and displaying whatever on the other one.
Well, I'm stuck mode in general. I mean, you can see right now I've got two 22 inch monitors that,
I mean, they're matched and they're pretty good monitors and everything. They're actually
NEC monitors, and, but I've noticed that in some instances that the frame rate seems to drop
on one monitor versus the other monitor, even like watching videos, just something like that,
since I'm not a real big gamer. So I was almost thinking instead of doing two 21 inch monitors,
go ahead and get one 32 inch monitor and go with that instead. Yeah, I'll be interested to know that,
like that's what we do a lot. We put a movie on the projector, although typically when that
movies on the projector, not doing anything on my desktop, but I've certainly never noticed any
frame drop on anything on the projector doing it that way. I'll be interested to hear, yeah,
what happens? Why not? Well, I don't know. You think if you're reading a game in a extremely high
resolution on one monitor and continued working on the other, that would give you an indication
if you're going to get a better frame rate if you just get rid of one, wouldn't it? Although,
mind you, depending on what work you're doing in the process, it might be working harder.
Yeah, I don't know. You're just going to have to try, but I wouldn't have thought it'd make any
difference. I don't know. At this point, and honestly, I was kind of thinking maybe one monitor,
since you're only driving one through one video port, and you could dedicate all the memory of
that to that one video port, as opposed to trying to split memory across two video ports, and
you're actually trying to do the refresher across two video ports. Maybe that might make a difference.
I don't know, and looking at this the Moonbase Alpha game, that actually just looks so cool that
I was wondering if running that under wine on one video card went, but actually make better sense
than trying to run it on my dual headset up.
Must of a year run, Kills. Monitors, don't you? At the moment, I'm not. I'm just running one
22-inch monitor, uh, the 1650 by 1050, and then, uh, once or while I take my computer downstairs,
and run it on the 48-inch screen, which is a 1080p. Yeah, I don't know. I'd be interested to say,
I don't know enough about it, but I wouldn't have thought that you would see any drop in frame rate
if you were playing a game on one monitor, and you had a bloody windows with, I don't know, maybe,
a browser or something on the other one, but I'm not sure. Um, just with wine, though, Sandy,
I have found that sometimes when you do an update like update Arch, and update everything,
I have to revert back to a previous version of wine because my simulator refuses to work,
and I'm sure I've talked to Jalinci about something he tried, and after an update, he couldn't run
something in wine that he used to either, and here to revert back to a previous one. So,
that's something you've got to watch after an update, check your wine configuration, make sure
it's still working otherwise, go back. Uh, that could actually be, uh, definitely something to keep
a track of. I'm glad you kind of mentioned that because I'm not that that experience with lane
overall, in fact, I would probably actually be looking at using wine to run this and
said other than that, I only used to run Microsoft Office stuff, and even that I haven't done
now for a couple of years. So, okay, that's actually a good point. Thanks Peter.
Yeah, it's just going to look what I've got installed. Yeah, okay. The current one is 1.3.37-1,
but I had to revert back to 1.3-, uh, sorry, 1.3.33-1 to keep my simulator working.
And I had problems with something else too, that on the desktop that wouldn't run,
I had to reverse back to the older version. Do you know, are you actually running Nvidia drivers,
or are you running ETA drivers on your machine? Um, on my laptop, I'm only running the Intel drivers.
On my desktop, I run the, I've read a new book for a while actually, but there was something
it wouldn't do. I can't remember what it was, and I got the Nvidia drivers on that desk now.
The Intel driver seemed to work all right in wine, and this is the one I run my flight simulator
on the most. When I'm sitting out in the lantern watching Telly, I'd run it on the Intel.
Okay, yeah, my laptop would actually use the Intel drivers, but my desktop is actually Nvidia,
and I've been actually trying to stick with the new world driver since those are actually
open source drivers, as opposed to going to the proprietary Nvidia drivers. So that kind of
puts me in a tricky situation there. Actually, I lie. I remember now I did my daughter's laptop
and put the new bad drivers on it. And for some reason, I think it was other myth or XBMC,
because this is the one in a bedroom that is used, you know, just as a TV. And for some reason,
XBMC or Myth TV didn't like the new bad driver, so I had to install that in video once.
Now you're making me wonder what I actually have installed on my XBMC box. That's actually an
interesting question at this point. Yeah, I can't remember what it was, but it wasn't
drawing the display proper or the menus in XBMC didn't look right or something. I can't recall
yeah, a couple months ago, I bought a new video card. It's a Zotek G-Force GTX 550 TA,
and it has a Linux right on the box. It's fully supported. Yeah, I think we mentioned it on
kernel panic glass week that it's so hard now to find something that doesn't work in Linux.
Remember back in the old days where you had to hit on the internet and go through,
I think there's a few sites that listed Linux hardware before you went to the shop to buy
something these days, you have to be bloody unlucky if you bring something home, plug it in,
you can't get it working. Yeah, and then what I thought was neat that they actually put it on the
box. So I mean, they're prepared, you know, for phone support too. Yeah, this is rare, isn't it?
This is the year of Linux on the desktop, at least so I'm told. I know where my phone's going.
Yeah, me too. You're gone. Yeah, that's something you don't see very often,
months to be, is it? In fact, I've, besides on a few, what do you call them, thumb drives,
is about the only time I've ever seen it. Yeah, same here. And anyone tried Catalyst ATI,
I've tried to run that, but I've just never had any luck. It's always been a bloody problem.
I have an ATI card right now, but I'm just using the the free drivers. They work perfectly well.
Yeah, I don't think I ever actually used the non-free ATI drivers. Well, I'm used to Catalyst drivers,
because I had the, well, it's one of the Adiradiant graphics cards in my desktop, which is,
you know, if I'm going to play a game, it's on that machine typically. And they call the Radiant
drivers as the free ones, aren't they? It's always cool, I can't remember. But I've never had any
luck with them trying to play games. There are Catalyst drivers and nothing but trouble.
Basically, every time you do an upgrade, you had to rebuild the bloody kernel module. And
I was just a pain in the ass. I would have thought it would have got better now that I am
doing an urban and there's supposed to be more open and didn't they release the documents to
the public ages and ages again. Yeah, the Catalyst drivers have always been bad, even in Windows,
they suck pretty bad. So I was just looking here and it looks like my XBNC box actually is using
proprietary interior driver. Yeah, I mean, if it works, it works, you know.
I think that may have actually been a requirement, because I wouldn't have actually installed that
unless there was some other requirement for it, probably for the HDMI support or something like that.
This, we tend to manned by South Park. Is it only available on Steam?
Oh, that's a good question. That's, that's where I downloaded it from. Let me see on the website,
click on download. Yeah, it just goes, let's get it now on Steam. That's not good.
Yeah, that's a pain. Actually, I'm not prepared to install Steam, that's for sure.
Wasn't there a Linux version of Steam? Actually, we can pass we down, we'll run this on them.
There's an Android version. No, there's not. It's, it's, it's only a client where you can, you can't
play games and stuff on the Android. Or it's all it is is a chat thing, I think, and you can
purchase games, but you can't actually play the games. Yeah, on the Android one, but I thought
there was actually, I thought G-Linsey or somebody was actually talking about a Linux,
steam emulation. Every so often, a website pops up and says that Steam is coming to Linux,
because somewhere in the Steam documents, the word Linux is written, and then all of a sudden,
it breaks out all over the net that Steam is coming to Linux. But from my understanding,
they're never ever going to port Steam over to Linux. Well, it doesn't help that they're
cagey about it either. They kind of keep going, well, we're not necessarily not going to.
Then every time one of these stories pops up, Gabe knew well, slaps an intern.
Is that someone we're all supposed to know? That's the headperson of Valve at personal.
If you go back on the net and do search for Steam coming to Linux,
heaps the stories, links, journal, and that to go back ease. This is kind of disappointing.
I would just really like to run this Moonbase Alpha, but I think it just looks so cool.
I'm looking around the internet to see if there's a direct link to download it. Have you ever
looked at that Dizura? Yeah, I have an account. That's what I was actually referring to before Peter,
when I said there is a Steam client that could actually run on Linux.
Oh, okay. Yeah, but Dizura has nothing to do with Steam. It's just a game delivery
content delivery system like Steam, but they're totally different, aren't they?
I don't know. Okay. Yeah, totally different companies. I mean, Steam has everything. I mean,
this other, where's it called again, Desira? Yes, I'm like, that's the issue, right? Isn't it?
The Dizura or Dizura or something? Yeah, they have quite a few indie games and stuff like
that, but they don't have any big, triple-aid games on there yet. It's hard to tell if they're
going to cut any deals and get any big games on there. I mean, it works good. I mean, I like Steam
a lot better, but I mean, this Dizura is pretty new. So, I mean, maybe in a couple of years,
it'd be something I would enjoy more. Battlefield 2142, Unreal Tournament Half-Life 2,
Christy Zero, all pretty old games, aren't they? Yeah, they're a few years old, especially like Half-Life 2.
I think I was released in 2004. But it's still awesome. Yeah, I'd love to play it.
I'm playing Episode 1 right now. Oh, a Half-Life? Yeah, Half-Life 2, Episode 1.
Oh, okay. Yeah. I played Half-Life, but I looked at Half-Life 2 for a little bit,
I played a bit of it. It was pretty good. Do you think we'll ever see Half-Life 3?
I think we're going to see probably Half-Life 2, Episode 3, probably this year.
All right, I am holding you to that one. That's just my guess, but I think it's going to happen.
Yeah, I just got a copy last Thursday of Duke Nukem Forever, so I'll give you guys a review next time.
Yeah, I'll be interested. Everyone says it's absolutely rubbish.
I played the bait, it was pretty bad, but at one point I was able to draw a penis on a dry erase board.
Well, that's always important in a game. And I kicked a urinal until it broke.
330 living out his bar bathroom fantasies.
Dude, I destroyed bathrooms like I'm a rock star.
Most of it is a good game for you on the Zura, Deathhunter.
Deathhunter offers 25 exciting missions in which Ace will hunt different fish species
and face the difficulties holding a breath underwater whilst being fishing.
That sounds great.
I know, it's only $14.
$14, I'll take three.
Guess how much I paid for Duke Nukem forever?
$9.99.
Well, I got it for free. My dad bought it for $4.90, but it's both a copy.
That's very cute.
And how many millions of millions of dollars and years did they spend developing that?
Well, it's been, what, 25 years since Duke Nukem 3D came out?
Ah, no, so that's very 30. God, I'm not that old.
It was the late late 90s.
Because it's been in development since like a year or two after Duke Nukem 3D came out.
I think it took them like 12 years or something like that.
Was it really being developed?
I thought it was just like another company took it over like a couple years ago.
I heard that there was a lot of mismanagement like on the business side of it.
All right. You got anything else, Peter?
Should we move on to Sound Chaser?
Yeah.
What do you got for a Sound Chaser?
Well, the first story is actually kind of a really strange one.
Did anybody catch a story about the Department of Homeland Security?
Actually intercepting an English couple and basically interrogating them for
numerous hours because of tweets they had sent saying that they were going to
trash America and because they were going to go and I guess was dig up
Maryland Monroe and basically what they were saying was they were going to party really hard
when they came to America on vacation and their tweets just got totally
misconstrued by the Department of Homeland Security.
So they interrogated them for about five hours, I think it was.
And then went ahead and sent them back to England because of their tweets.
The Department of Homeland Security was off before they went back home.
What was that 338? Didn't hear that at all.
We kind of broke up there. Pretty bad.
I was just making fun of the department.
I would actually say they should be made fun of at this point because pretty much
like the quote about Maryland digging up Maryland Monroe was actually a reference to
an episode of Family Guy which is basically a show from the US and just totally misreading
and misinterpreting and not understanding popular culture is the sign of a department or
part of our government that is just totally stupid and moronic in my opinion.
Well as someone that has been detained by DHS twice they're not exactly a big on humor.
Why didn't that surprise me?
But I think that's actually the point is that I mean okay I grant you that they shouldn't be
too loose with the humor stuff but boy they should actually understand our own culture.
Now which part doesn't surprise you as the fact that I've been detained twice or the fact
they don't like humor. That you've been detained twice and I'm really surprised they let you go.
Yeah I am too actually.
They don't like people coming back from Canada without passports.
Well Pigg will I hate to say but you kind of brought that on yourself giving that you were
traveling through Detroit at the time. Yeah it was fun though.
Which part traveling through Detroit are being detained?
The whole trip was pretty fun but driving through Detroit if you're not from Detroit
it's frightening because the speed limit says 50. Everyone goes 90.
Well given that that's the motor city why doesn't that surprise me?
Even the homeless people are in a hurry.
Again given the motor city why doesn't that surprise me?
Well anyway since this is your story and not my time to talk about when I was detained
why don't you continue that?
There wasn't a whole lot to continue I mean it just seemed to be totally ironic and basically
totally moronic that our own government is actually too stupid to realize when other people
are making references to our own culture.
I think we figured it out. The Department of Homeland Security is run by ministers.
They're ironically stupid about culture.
Doesn't that actually you know what's interesting to me about that is isn't our whole government
that way? I mean seriously can you see anybody in our government actually understanding our
own culture?
They all do dress funny and they all do have the same haircut so they very well may be some type
of freaky mutant hipster.
A hipster?
All right if if any of us disappear we know what happened.
We'll be shipped off to area 52 you know because area 51 is too popular.
Just be glad it's not area 69.
We'll be bulldozed all day.
And I'll finish with a Zen mutator.
Just be glad it's not in the Toyota Camry.
Next up 330 what do you got for us?
Thanks so that was the best ever story you've ever had.
Did you wear a condom when you did that 330?
Just kind of there's a 330 Nordic condom is.
No I went raw dog.
I was in the back of a 93 Camry and shit happens in the back of a 93 Camry.
You know speaking of the shit that happens in a 93 Camry I got footage of it in this data center.
Yeah okay so back to back to the story I brought.
The NSA has created something that is actually interesting for once.
They now have an ultra secure version of Android called SE Android.
Yeah wasn't that the the first approved actual operating system for cell phones that's
actually been approved by the NSA even I think Apple doesn't get their approval at this point.
Yeah Apple is still disapproved as far as I know and Blackberry made the cut but only just
but what what this security enhanced Android appears to be is Android with SE Linux
in the the pseudo Linux kernel that Android runs.
This doesn't run on all Android appliances that says you're currently only intent
with the emulators in the Nexus S.
That's still something that's.
Ah shit it gets worse you can only compile it on Fedora.
My god.
And how's that a problem?
I mean isn't that a feature?
I figured everyone was running Fedora at this point.
Um yeah well I suppose if you can compile it on Fedora you should be able to compile it on
anything. It just says that it's only been tested on Fedora.
Well A I don't think Fedora is the only operating system that actually
implements SE Linux and B I would actually if it was tied to Fedora specifically
I would actually count that as a negative.
Monster.
Yeah it's a monster.
Maybe you need to be deported with those English people.
That's what's so good.
Hey I'd be going to Ireland so you know I might actually have a good time over there
with my kinfolk.
Your kinfolk are all Pikes.
My kinfolk are Irish dude.
Dude look at a caravan just outside of Ireland doesn't make you Irish.
It should make you a Pike.
They let dogs in caravan and fighting.
Get SE Android.
Actually I can prove that my ancestry actually goes long back in
Ireland and is actually quite a well renowned family.
If you can no shut up I'm going to turn this show around.
Just try it Peggy.
So yeah SE Android.
As a person who knows very little about Android purposely I don't know what
any of this crap means on the the wiki page.
I was hoping that some individual who was into Android could
make this not gibberish.
Well that's some good information you're sharing.
I'll be the first to admit that while I'm kind of interested in Android stuff
as I've been working to distance myself from Google and
getting a chance to look into SE Android has actually been
probably one of the furthest things furthest things from my thoughts at this point.
Personally they could security enhance cream corn and I would be excited
but I have no idea what this thing is.
Well you know I guess one of the things it comes down to for me is also that
this is one of the infamous three-letter government agencies and
how much do we trust these government agencies lately?
I mean granted the NSA does have high standards
but is that a good thing or a bad thing for us as a general public?
Well it is open source.
I mean I would figure that like most things the
large community of hackers are smarter than
he goons the government hires but that may not always be the case.
I mean how long have we all been using SE Linux without
any major freedom tram lines as far as we're aware?
Well I would actually question how many people or how many companies are actually
using SE Linux at this point.
I know there's a big emphasis on it in terms of the NSA and the government
but outside of that the companies I've worked for
have pretty much said we aren't touching SE Linux right now because it's
basically too big of a change to actually undertake in our companies and with
our applications and with the compatibility requirements for everything else.
I've heard that it's fairly widespread and usage for people using
REL and it's derivatives but it's a really good idea to use it keeps
really crafty stuff from running on your system.
Why your environment is never a bad idea?
Yeah I agree that's a really good idea to use it and in fact every
Linux administrator that has actually been running
REL has actually agreed that's a really good idea.
Unfortunately the reality of fitting into a business environment
has basically precluded it from actually being used and that includes
all of the last three jobs I've had which have all been
implementations from 700 servers all the way up to 1200, 1500 servers that I'm
dealing with. I don't know anything about that I really can't speak to it.
I just recently got my very first tech job so there's that.
Yeah I wasn't expecting that you could actually speak to that I was just pointing out that
there may be some adoption of it out there but it may not be as widespread as
you're being led to believe at this point then again it may be more widespread
than I've been led to believe by my experience.
I thought you were trying to put me on the spot I thought this was going to go to
Fistacuff's frankly now I'm kind of depressed.
Oh heavens no I don't ever intend to put anybody on the spot here.
I speak from my experience but I don't expect anybody to actually try to
match my experience. That's ridiculous this is a podcast you're
supposed to treat the other people on it like crap
and make them feel stupid the whole time. Did you not get the memo?
The memo? The memo? The memo?
Oh that would be a lot of memo that would be a whole different subject.
Yeah other things that are depressing and utter failures.
Hey before we go into the vote kicks 330 how was Floodcon?
Floodcon was awesome generally it was awesome and specifically for me it was awesome.
A lot of really really interesting stuff came to light.
The thing that stuck out to me most is that for Fedora 17 which has been
codenamed the beefy miracle by one of the greatest strokes of luck ever.
One of the primary architectures for that release and on so into the future is going to be
arm which is becoming very big in computing in the third world as well as in some server
environments because the cost and power the power consumption to the the output of the serving
platform is like greatly reduced and in a terrible economy like this people are more
interested in saving money than crunching numbers faster and that all became extremely
interesting to me when I want to Raspberry Pi.
Dude I hope you're going to try running XBMC on that Raspberry Pi when you get it.
Oh yeah it'll be running XBMC and I plan to eventually try to hack together a very
big flip inspired tablet out of it.
What's your name?
She's my ignorant.
Why do you mean you want to talk?
What the hell is that?
What is this?
What's your problem?
What is it?
There is a 35 dollar computer that runs on a and it's an ARM processor called the Raspberry Pi.
It was developed in Europe because a bunch of business people couldn't figure out why all
of the people graduating with computer science theories didn't have a fundamental understanding
of computer science so they created this device to try to get a they're targeting high school
kids but they want to turn these kids into hackers you know like like we all yeah where
our ARM will be yeah people that are genuinely interested in the technology and are wanting
to be involved in it more than just pointing and clicking a couple of things.
Peter if you go to I think it's Raspberry Pi.com or Raspberry Pi.org or something like that
you can actually go ahead and see what the computer is going to be.
Actually that's not the right address.
How's it going to look at the right one?
I'm not going to Raspberry Pi mini USB PC it's that size of a wallet I'd say with a few
ports a LAN and USB and it's it's it's actually a fantastic device.
I sat in a couple of talks to to hear about this thing and the the processing unit is actually
a giant GPU a graphics processing unit with a little bitty tiny ARM processor in the corner of it.
So you've got your it's like a 700 megahertz ARM processor that will chew through stuff and
you can actually take code and what they called it throwing it over the wall but you can take large
chunks of raw crap that needs computed and throw it at the GPU and it'll just crunch the living
but Jesus out of these numbers the only problem is is that GPU and its instruction sets are
proprietary. Everything up to that is open source even the bit where you throw it over the wall
and by it being closed source and things like that Raspberry Pi has gone and been able to license
all of the codex you could ever need and so that you can run this computer and do these really
really graphic intensive really cool multimedia things it'll do 1080p video over HDMI like just
really fantastic stuff without having to worry so that these educators don't have to worry
about licensing and things like that. And one of the things I found earlier was when I was looking at
the Rebecca Black Linux distro there was an article on that same website about there already
being a XBMC distro that it will actually run on the Raspberry Pi so if I had if I hadn't bought my
Acer machine that I've been messing around with I might have actually bought Raspberry Pi to actually
just run XBMC uh so there's two very action to this so I can there's a I in a book.
The cheap one yeah that the cheap one is 25 bucks and the more expensive one is 35.
Is there any difference the extra 128 mega-ram or yeah that's pretty much actually I think the
35 dollar one actually has an ethernet interface as well that's actually the probably the bigger
splitting point is actually having that ethernet interface which the 25 dollar one doesn't have.
I mean it's a little device and it's like those gamma sticks and I don't know we've talked about
these sort of things over the years but I actually wouldn't know what to do with the bladigy.
Family and automation thing to run how you want is about the anything I could ever think of.
I mean you can do a lot of things with this this could be your your media front-end for
you know myth TV or something I assume that TV has packages that would compile on it but you
could say it could be your your desktop computer for you know 90 percent of the population and in
places where you know they either have very limited access to computers or have you know
or have no access it this could be a really cool project because the whole thing's powered by a
a USB cord so any mini USB thing for like your phone or something will power to this whole computer.
You know I'm the thing that I could actually have hung that off of one of the USB ports on my
RAID controller and this thing would actually be able to actually handle my whole RAID controller so
if that was the case then I could actually have XBMC and everything just hanging off a single
RAID box and if you make it into a combo into a combo file server and XBMC front-end which I think
is really really cool when you think about it I mean it's basically a little like one inch cube
type thing to actually control my whole media center. Yeah and it's also a more than capable
um Arduino um competitor you know except for unlike Arduino this is a real computer I mean it's
you're going to be able to run regular offerings I mean you'll be able to put Fedora on it.
Well not even that but I mean think about this if you've got Linux from scratch out there you could
actually build custom operating systems custom versions of Linux to actually run on this thing
and actually use it as a custom controller for any number of devices that you want and that to
me is actually fabulously exciting I mean I can't wait to see what some of like sick club is
going to do with something like this given what she's already done with things that are really
Arduino-type systems and that. Yeah the possibilities for this are very very close to limitless
and with the brilliant people that we know um this thing could become extremely interesting.
Yeah it's like you boot up SD card but then you can plug in a USB hard drive into it and
discuss the limit really and it's pretty cool. Yeah and once you boot off that SD card you can
just pull it out it's never going to bother with that again so this could become a
that's essentially in a way a security feature yeah if if you had like a some kind of
the the possibilities are so limitless I can't come up with like maybe a screen that showed advertisements
and you're pulling them over a network you know knowing that no one's going to be able to just go
in and reboot it that they you know that it has to stay where it's at you know you get a a level
of certainty that no one's just going and turning off your ad thing and you're paying for something
that you're not getting. Yeah and they got to sell SD cards with pre-installed Fedora debut in my
system. How cool is that? Well it gets a it's more cooler than that I mean I actually read an
article on the register a couple months ago about a guy who actually went ahead and reset up his
whole internet server provider service based on Arduino cards. I can't even imagine what this
guy could do with something like this I mean it's just like he could expand his servers 10 fold
just based on having a couple simple little cards and on top of it he actually got his his
service down to the point where he could actually run it off of solar power and not have to actually
rely on anything on the power grid so he actually was like 10 times or 20 times ahead of anybody else
as far as being an internet service provider. Damn I should do that with my database. Yeah you could
you could really use this for your your database of things that you claim to have a database of.
I was thinking for your whole data center Peggy. Or that's what I meant. You know speaking of the
things that I claim to have uses for a data center for I have a list so large it's in a data center
right. Yeah. That was so funny I forgot to laugh. Look not every joke I tell it can be awesome
and hilarious. Put him boom. Must have paid back kicks now. Yeah I was waiting for Peggy's punchline
I thought he got cut off. Is it about to get the punchline? But that was the punchline wasn't it?
Yeah sad to say. All right you guys ready for the vote kicks? I guess. Okay I'm ready. As you're
up first if you're still there you got one one vote to cast. Well if I've only got one three 30
gets it. Bam three 30 you got one one vote cast too. Who's it going to be? I am spending my one
solitary hard fought vote for Peggy. Good choice. Good choice. Peggy you got three to cast.
Oh you know what just because I've never been mean to Asimeth doesn't mean I'm a start now.
Sun Chaser. All three votes go to you buddy. Oh that is dirty. Ouch. Well we know who the new
joke is. Sun Chaser you got one vote to cast. Man only one? Well I hate to say it but it's
retaliation time Peggy you got it. Nice Peter you got you got two votes to cast. What's the score so far?
In the lead is Sun Chaser with three and Peggy with two. Three 30 only has one.
Oh I'm asking me I was going to vote for three 30 just because I called but that data center did
it for me so I'm giving them all to the pegman. Nice. See I got three to cast and I got
thrown all that three 30 and tied up. Three 30 and Peggy and they would have to battle it off
in some kind of fight. Her code just can't get involved. Did you get three 30s voter ready? Yeah
Yeah that's right we should add that in the rules if there's a tie they both go.
Peg wall and three 30 say your goodbyes now. You know this show is bullshit. Yeah I agree.
Absolute and total bullshit. Oh that that felt good. Yeah just like the old days. Well this show
was a disaster I hope everybody enjoyed it. I'm just amazed that I was not the first person
voted off. I can't believe that. It was close. That was. Could I buy it off a fell out Kennel
Panic on pass to Sandy? Oh when we were playing a game I said I would slaughter Gorkhan. I was just
kidding. Gorkhan's a good guy. Well I figured most of the ones that we made up for that were actually
mostly a joke anyway. Yeah it's all a joke. I hope nobody took offense to it. Yeah maybe we
really don't get the shoot anybody. Well I think that's that's the kind of way I went to the
distrust one anyway because I didn't want to actually offend anybody because it would actually
be Ken and Bayad but I kind of wanted to wait you know hold back a little bit until we got into
us you know a few more episodes to find out if anybody actually got offended by this stuff.
That's such a wish to answer. I don't want to move my love. Can we talk about that?
Too late now. Save it for next time. God I fell asleep. I'll have to love you as in
leave you as I'm afraid. Yeah I'm I'm going to. Well it was fun guys I'll talk to you next time.
Yeah so we'll see yeah Sandy and Peggy straight there if you're still there.
Leader guys. Good night. No no. Good night at all.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio where Hacker Public Radio does our
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on death
Today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital.Pound and the Empanomical Computer Club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are crowd
sponsored by linear pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds go to
lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis today's show is
released on the creative commons. Attribution. Share a line.
Read our license.
