Episode: 976
Title: HPR0976: HPR Community News (March 2012)
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0976/hpr0976.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 05:59:56

---

Hey, what you doing?
Listening to hacker public radio.
Cool, which one?
Episode 972, Linux and the Shell.
It's on the word count command WC.
Oh, that's a good one.
Yeah, I like it when they can take some of the mystery
out of the command line.
HPR is really great for that.
Oh my gosh, do you know what you just said?
That HPR is great.
No, everybody knows that.
You said episode 972.
That means episode 1000 is just a few shows away.
Wow, 1000 episodes, that's a pretty big deal.
Is HPR doing anything special for it?
Yeah, we're asking everyone to send in a short recording,
congratulating HPR.
Everyone?
Yes, everyone who listens to HPR,
whether or not they've recorded an episode of their own.
But won't that take some time to edit together?
Yep, that's why we need everyone to send in their recording
as soon as possible.
So if you know anyone who's a fan of HPR,
please ask them to send in their recording as soon as they can.
Does it need to be a long recording?
No, shorter is better for this one
so that we can get lots of them into one show.
So something like, hey hacker public radio,
this is Enzy Fangirl
and I want to congratulate you all on your first 1000 episodes.
Keep up the great work.
That's perfect.
Great.
How do I send it in?
Oh, that's easy.
Just make an MP3,
Aug Bourbus,
Flack, Wave,
or Speaks file out of the recording
and email it to ep1k at hackerpublicradio.org.
Oh, neat.
Episode 1000 spells epic,
ep1k at hackerpublicradio.org.
Hello and welcome to another hacker public radio.
This is the month in your new show for April of 2012.
I'm Pokey and we're,
we got a full house in the chat today.
We got to say thanks first off to the Linux basics team
for making this mumble server available
because we've got a bunch of people in here.
It's a lot of fun.
Starting off the top of the list,
we've got 5150.
Howdy folks.
And we've got the paranoid shell.
Howdy, howdy everyone.
We've got Bourgu listening,
but he's muted and I can't fall in, of course.
Good evening.
And Kevin grenade.
Thanks for joining us, Kevin.
Glad to be here.
Okay, so as usual,
we're going to start off with our new hosts.
We're going to give a thanks to Hey, Ken.
Can you pronounce this guy's name correctly for me?
Because I will butcher it.
It's a classian cope man.
Class young cope man.
Okay, that that hyphen would have thrown me right off.
That was that was a very cool show that he did together.
And what's that?
Yeah, it's funny because I'm the one who normally butchers
the new host names.
Yeah, but I think having haven't met in face to face,
you've got the upper hand here.
And Dordedor Geek was our the new host.
So thanks a lot to both of you guys
for helping us out this month
and to all of our returning hosts as well.
So we mostly through the new shows?
Yeah, we probably should.
Okay, so looks like 957.
Freedom is not free.
And this was a show on documentation by a hookah
who one way or the other seemed to have left out
the show notes for this one.
So that was a little bit of aronic doing with it.
Maybe somebody missed it or would like to catch up on.
That was a good show.
I'm really enjoying it who goes series here.
That was part three.
Show 958 was KDE gathering plasma active
in the tablet by David Whitman.
This was another one.
I think I missed this one.
Did you guys catch this one?
Yeah, I listened to it.
And one of the things I found interesting,
we've been talking since tablets came out.
Everybody wants one with native Linux running on it,
not Android, not iOS.
And one of the things they were talking about is,
yes, you could get this tablet
and you could technically install Libra Office on there.
But they have an office package.
It's a little lighter and optimized for touch screens,
whereas you're just going to be trying to emulate a mouse
with most you're off the shelf packages.
And so and all the other software they're putting into this.
So this is not just throwing KDE in the Linux shell
on the tablet hardware.
There's a lot more work going into it behind.
That's ringing a bell now.
Thank you.
I'm going to say I'm excited about these tablets.
I think they've changed the name,
haven't they since this?
Yeah, it's on maybe it's third name.
There's been a couple for it.
I close it at one point to Spark.
Oh, that's correct, yeah.
Yeah, and I think they have changed the name again.
So it's got a new name to it.
But yeah, everybody's curious about it.
Every podcast that I've listened to this week
has mentioned it and said that they want to get an interview.
So that's maybe we could get in on that action too.
Well, I'm hoping perhaps they can port this to other existing tablets
because one of the things has been pointed out on the Spark tablet.
You're you're paying 200 bucks for a tablet from the hardware
specs would normally be about a hundred dollars.
And I did hear someone mentioned on a podcast the other day
that you could buy the parts to build the tablet yourself
for about that in a hundred dollar range.
So it might be and probably don't want to undercut the funding
for this project if you want to look at this way.
But if they if they can make it more portable,
I think it it could just be adopted all over.
But I think that's the point of building it on a particular tablet
is to get something physical out there.
And the price point, of course, is a valid point.
But you are getting what you have been asking for all this time.
You know, a tablet that runs native Linux on there.
So I guess it's put up a showed up time for a lot of people.
Yeah, and it's an economy of scale too.
As long as these things are in small scale production,
they're going to have to be they're going to have to cost more
until they can pump enough out to bring the price down.
Right.
And we really need a way to push cross platform computing
in the tablet market.
I just saw a news report this morning had to be local.
But some some school here in the state was going to require every student
to buy a $600 iPad three.
That's unbelievable.
I don't even have words to describe my it's just a problem.
It's awful.
Well, school I do administration for they they're talking,
you know, they want to become sort of a technology magnet.
But the way I understood it to school was going to provide the hard
where that I don't have too much trouble with.
But when you're going to mandate mandate the hardware.
And if it was if if I had a kid in that school, I would say no,
I don't allow Apple products in my house do something else.
Well, what I find quite odd actually is that's, you know,
they're coming up with a you must use this and you must use that.
And yes, there's no researcher anything to prove that having all
this technology in class is in any way assisting kids.
And in fact, for kids with learning difficulties or difficulties,
concentrating ADHD dyslexia or whatever, all this technology is
actually distracting from the main point of the class.
So, you know, it's a bandwagon to have these lovely shiny things in
but at the end of the day, if a good teacher can get his or her
message across with a blackboard and a piece of chalk, well,
I can speak to that.
I can tell you why they're going to computing in the classroom.
And that is because the computer grades the tests for them.
And it's since they're having trouble with teacher retention
that the salaries that they can afford to pay.
It's if what they're trying to do is turn teaching into as much of
a nine to five job as they can do.
And it's detrimental to the students because every assignment
and every test becomes multiple choice.
Can you guys repeat all that?
I was distracted by another window.
I'll tell you what.
Listen to it on the podcast.
Push the chuckle guys.
Push the chuckle.
All right.
So moving on.
Yeah, we can move on from there.
What do we get next?
We had the Orca screen reader, the presentation about Orca
and that they're short of people who need help for that project.
Oh, yes, that was the John Marie Diggs presentation from
Northeast Linux Fest.
And I want to thank you, Ken, for bumping the Thursday Q bump
in that one up in the Thursday Q because they are desperate
for developers.
And the head of that project is is not a developer.
And she doesn't really it doesn't seem like she wants to be
the lead developer.
She's just the only one left.
Another problem.
The Sam rules applied to the Thursday Q as everything else.
So if it's important, it gets bumped.
So in the following day, we had DeepGeek with the newscast.
And he announced during the week that he's taken sabbatical
just some time off to recharge his battery,
which is I think a good thing.
A good thing for him not.
We will miss the show obviously.
Yeah, and also he's doing some tech upgrades too.
And he wants to build a concentrate on that.
And I have to the juggle projects, which I can understand.
Well, he's so prolific.
It must take so much time organizing those stories
that he deserves a little time off.
Yeah, right on.
Yeah, I think he could actually move to a two-weekly,
a fortnightly schedule with the amount of stuff
that he has actually.
Yeah, it's for a long show every other week too.
But that's, you know, whatever seat,
whatever he's comfortable with there.
I love those shows.
I love those sucky community news shows.
I mean, the news that comes across there is so it was really good.
And it's obscure.
I never would have found it on my own.
So those are really good.
And it's interesting, not just for me,
but for my family and keeps it clean enough
that I can play it in the car with my wife with my kids.
And I just, I really appreciate those shows a lot.
I find it's quite depressing actually sometimes.
Well, you'll get that too.
So look, playing those shows like in the car with my wife
and kids and just watching the looks on their faces
as some of that news comes across.
You know how shocking it is.
It's one of my favorite parts to bid to.
Okay, moving on.
The following day we had experiences in the mental hospital
by a sick flip.
Yes.
Now this is our leader for the month for feedback
because lots of people left some feedback for her
and a lot of people, their thoughts and prayers
are going out to her.
Mining glued it though.
I didn't leave a text feedback,
but it was a very interesting show.
It was very touching.
And I think we're all, I feel, I'm okay to say
that we're all very concerned for sick flip
and we hope she goes through that similar.
We're pulling for you to say what?
Well, she dropped into IRC here.
Oh, we can a half and a go.
Row and go for golfer and I spoke to her a bit
and we both expressed, you know,
how fearless putting that out there was
because there, you know,
so many of us are hiding behind a handle
and not exposing a lot of ourselves
beyond the technical details
and just it's incredible to find some
but somebody who would be that open
with what's going on with them personally.
Absolutely.
To be honest, the first time I heard that I was thinking
well, sick flip has been known to, you know,
to audio drama for a while,
but then they, you know, you realize,
God, this is actually real here.
And, yes, I'm so proud that we have a,
and I'm very proud that she put it on the net
because it's definitely all interest hackers.
Yeah, and I think I get what you're saying there
to be in proud of the HPR and of the community
that she would trust us with it.
Yeah, exactly. Thank you.
So, yeah, we can, I think we, you know,
set it to all in all day.
We'll just say sick flip.
We're all pulling for you and we all hope
you come out, come out of this, the best.
Um, episode nine, 62 was Dan Washgo again
with Linux in the shell.
His fourth episode in that series is paced
and Dan's been quite regular with these
and these have been, been good for people.
A lot of positive feedback people.
Loving these.
I've been really enjoying these in particular.
I've been quite a bit of time in the shell myself,
but a paste is actually a command I had kind of glossed over
and even though I spent a good amount of time
working with this stuff, that's when I just
hadn't given a second thought,
but it's in my toolkit now.
So I appreciate it from that angle.
Well, Dan seems to be hitting a lot of tools
that I wouldn't have thought of using.
The only thing I would maybe ask him
since he does website and server administration
if he could give a real world example
on some of these commands that we might not be familiar with
as home users and say,
well, this, in this situation,
this is where I, where this command comes in handy.
Well, that's, yeah, that's a very good idea.
I can think of a lot of examples actually.
Well, that's good feedback.
You should make sure that Dan gets an email about that.
We're actually having a work,
having a Friday lunch session
because our restaurants have been renovated,
so we're having these at our desks anyway.
And the meeting room is usually open on a Friday.
So we've, we all have our lunch in there
and we just got through some Linux commands.
And this has been one of the sites
that we've been referring to and there, you know,
if you want a good rundown,
this command, this command, whatever.
And I think Dan is providing the basis
for a lot of commands that my networking basics
are my bash scripting basic series
which has been put on hold since I became an admin.
Actually, it's one of the reasons I emailed the list
because my show was stuck in a cube and any.
And these, this was something that for in order
to do bash scripting properly,
it's just daisy chaining a lot of these commands together
and Dan's gone through them one by one.
And it's a great basis for later.
Anybody else wanted to build on this body of work
because this is, these commands are going to be as valid
in 20 years time as they are right now today.
That is way cool that you're bringing this into work.
Yep.
It's slowly converting them.
Cool, cool.
All right, episode 963 was how I cut the cord part three
by Brockton Bob.
And this is still a good series.
I'm still enjoying that.
You know, not be a much of a television watcher myself.
It's like all of this is kind of foreign to me,
but it's good to hear and it's good info to have
in case anybody asks me how to do it.
And I have shared several of the things
that he was talking about with at least one other guy
that I can think of, but maybe too.
Yeah, this is one of those series is that I'm going
to be referring to in a month or two after moving
to be setting on my systems back up
and try to do it right with a fresh start.
Okay, the following day we had the Sunday morning Linux
review episode 26.
And I'd like to thank those guys for allowing us
to bump their show down one in order
to get the orca screen reader in one previous week.
And following that was talk to me use.
And then the following Monday we had the wisdom
of our elders by door to door geek his first episode.
But of course, we all know him has been a podcaster
on the pod nuts network.
Yeah, Linux basics and back to server we're using.
This was a great show.
He said a lot of things that, you know, I've said
for most of my life, that was really good.
No arguments from me.
No, absolutely not for me.
I've done actually the same thing recorded a lot
of stuff from my father.
And he's the last the last of his generation
in the neighborhood and remembers all the people
and why things were done there and why that school
was there and not somewhere else and why the well
was there and why the wall was there.
And this is stuff that, you know, people forget
and you lose the context.
I think you lose a lot of a lot of history
and it's it's it's proven to us to try our best
to save this in the age of, you know, tweets
and whatever telling us what you're eating for breakfast.
Here we have the ability to record forever.
The wisdom of and the experiences of people.
I think it's something that we should all do
as tech people sit down with a microphone
and interview as many people as we can.
No, publish them necessarily,
but just make them available to other people.
Yeah, not a bad idea.
There's a website idea for someone out there.
Right, like my family has stacks
and stacks of pictures of people
that I really need to sit down with my dad
and put all those in the computer and label
who they are because I'll have no idea one of these days.
What I did there was just to roll, got all the photos
and wrote a number on the back of them
and just photographed them.
And then as I was talking to him about it,
like who's in this photo, number one.
This is, you know, you ran to blah, blah, blah,
and she married to Blah, the whole family history is there.
And then, you know, I've just got a digital photo
of all the photos that I can use as a reference later on.
And then we went for a drive and I brought my N900 at the time
with a GPS and then wrote the coordinates
where those photos were taken.
Oh, and I should, should mention,
I'm a little embarrassed, you know,
door at the end, he talked about some of his favorite podcasters
and it would have made more sense
if it said, Poke and Ken Fallon,
but he mentioned me with a bunch of people.
I probably shouldn't even be in the same podcast with so,
but I sure do appreciate that door.
You thought of me that way, but I'll go on the record once again.
I do absolutely nothing around here
except show up once in a while.
It's, it's Ken and Poke do it, everything.
I feel the same as you do 50 or 50.
I don't, I don't know how I became, you know, involved in this.
Here, the community, you guys are the community.
Just I intend to replace myself with a script
and go back to Fallon asleep every month.
So speaking of which, actually,
we're making a little bit of progress there.
We have the HPR scheduling system is all over there on Gatorious.
I already have some scripts that, you know,
I use in the back end.
So I was thinking, well, why not put them up
so that we can use those as a basis for,
at least, you know, a basis for the logic
for what we're trying to do and expand them up.
I'm working on the queue manager now.
And I'm going to base that in the short term
on, you know, reading from individual files.
Then I can work on the queue logic
so that's, you know, that is all working.
And then when it comes to the day
where we go to a database for that sort of thing,
you know, when people are entering directly via the website,
then we can replace those with just references to the tables,
but it'll still be populate in the same arrays and hashes.
So we'll know then that the queuing system is working
if it's working.
Well, I for one can just want to say thank you
for all the work you're doing.
It's, it's, I don't know what you would get done
if you were doing it.
Thank you.
We just need people sent it in shows.
And well, you know, this month, I think we have examples
of why we need to keep this network on.
There are a myriad of examples of good, honest,
goodness, techy stuff there.
And then some really emotional moments as well during the whole thing.
So that's what I'm doing.
I think what you guys are doing,
we're just facilitating the community.
So let's just keep it up.
On that point, before we go on,
then mean to talk to you privately,
but on the listing on the site that says there's only 17 shows
in the queue and a week ago, it was like 60.
Was that a glitch somewhere?
No, I did that deliberately because what we're seeing
is a lot of syndicated shows are being put in
and regular shows like dance shows, for instance,
are coming up in the queue and yes,
their regular shows, but the point I'm trying to make
there is that we have 17 people who have contributed
to the show, not counting, not counting people
like Deep Geek or Dan who are regular slots,
not counting.
They all the slots that we have for syndicated Thursday
and not, or when you take all those out,
we're left with 17 items in the queue,
which I think is a fair, is a fair review of the queue,
actually.
So we got 17 actual audio files in the queue.
Yes, and the thing is, I was on IRC the other day
and one of the guys said,
I'm thinking of doing this for HPR and I said,
yeah, definitely we were getting short of shows
and they looked at the queue and said,
oh, there's 70 things in the queue,
but that's just because we've got the talks
from Northeast Linux Fest,
as extended they syndicated Thursdays out.
So that's added like five shows there
and whenever you go into another week,
you've got the syndicated Thursday that comes with it.
And then every second week you get the Linux
and the shell, which comes with it.
And then adding entire weeks just because we've added
something to the Thursday too.
Yes, and it also adds the Deep Geeks Friday show.
So in actual fact, the number of shows
that we received real shows to go up,
the queue will only display the number
of the regular shows until the shows
that we have run out and then anything
syndicated to Thursday or the other ones
will not be displayed unless you click to see them.
And I think that makes a fair change, don't you?
Yeah, that sounds better.
I like that pre-flex the community contribution.
17 in the queue is a lot less intimidating
to especially your turning contributor
who's not gonna get bumped to the head of the queue.
It's a lot less intimidating than 64 or 70
that aren't actual shows especially.
Is starting to become a running joke in the IRC
and that, you know, in fact, I think they mentioned
it in DevNo, or DevRandom, sorry.
The mentioned what?
All that when you contribute a show,
it's gonna be a month and a half before you hear it.
Yeah, exactly.
And I think that is, that's something that concerns
me a little bit.
I'm glad to get all this content.
I'm just thinking that the Linux in the shell cycle
seems to be quite good because it allows us
to put on shows every second week or so.
I'm just wondering, do we need to maybe switch
syndicated to Thursday to every second week
or something like that as well?
Send your comments and feedback on this topic
to hpr at hackerpublicradio.org.
Thank you, Pokey.
No problem.
Show 967 Raspberry Pi SpectreView.
Fantastic show, loved it.
Thanks, I heard.
Go ahead.
As I concur and I'm waiting with baited breath
till mine shows up in the mail.
I keep checking the mail every day
since they say they're being sent.
Though I think it's only once being sent out now,
according to a message I got from RS online,
the other day seems to be only the people
who ordered them on the first day
before the service crashed.
Yeah, I really wanted to make this episode
because first start,
Trashan is an absolute genius, harder-wise,
and you just need to talk to him for a while
to see the way his brain works as far as this.
He could be as unconcerned
about the graphics process around that board.
Really, he just didn't care, skipped over.
It was everything for him
about this board as connectors.
And I had a big discussion on Fab's blog
on dehype.org, where he basically came out
and said the Raspberry Pi is a big hype
and we had quite an extensive discussion about that.
As it happened, he posted that the same day
that we did the show about the Raspberry Pi came out.
And I think what a lot of people are missing
about this Raspberry Pi is that, yes,
it has a great graphics adapter.
It will make a lovely little server for you.
But what it's doing is it's got so many connectors on there
that will facilitate hardware hacking.
You would not believe it.
I mean, we're probably Linux and software guys.
But even today, when I was doing my projects,
we don't know how long ago,
the difficulty I had getting my software
to talk to a programmable logic controller was just,
it was like dragging my hair out.
So I had to run it.
My project was brought in, brought from the second floor
over to another floor for the presentation.
And some connector got loose and the thing didn't work.
So this just completely eliminates that
because you go into standard interfaces
and you'll be able to do the IO
and you'll be able to write some sort of program.
And where they're selling this is in the catalogs
for these schools.
And it's a really will, I believe, make hardware hacking.
Just take it to that barrier that was so high
and has been so high for so long.
It's really just going to lower that barrier down
because now if you want to send a five volt current
to that pin on that port and that thing there,
that will turn on that's connected to an LED.
All you do is you echo one into this file.
I mean, who can't do that?
It's just class.
Well, I've talked to my super intended told him
there was this thing called the Raspberry Pi coming up
that was directed towards education
and where he's wanting to get into being a tech magnet
and have a programming class.
I may be able to slip these in,
especially if there is a curriculum all set up
and ready by next fall.
And if not, maybe the next year,
but hopefully we'll be reset.
He's kind of a Mack guy.
So, but maybe I can slip Linux in under the door that way.
I was thinking about these ones there.
I think these guys are aiming them squarely
at electronics students who are maybe able to PCB
or soldering some stuff on right up to the graduate.
Some of the connectors are really advanced connectors
that are used in mobile phones
for interfacing with mobile phones
and really, yeah, specialized kit.
So, it's cool.
But I don't know if you should move on.
FFMPEG for video conversion 968.
Brockton Bob.
This is another good one down on the command line.
You know, along the lines of links in the shell
and some useful conversions there.
FFMPEG is a great tool
if you need to grab some media from the internet
and you don't want it in their format.
Maybe it's not readable to you.
Maybe it's not presentable
if you want to show it to friends or something
and just go ahead and do that conversion that you need.
So, this was a good shell.
Thanks a lot, Brockton Bob.
Yeah, I enjoyed it.
If you guys remember, my first show was
over a year ago was on FFMPEG
and Brockton Bob covered a lot more concisely than I did.
So, I salute him on that.
If anybody's interested in FFMPEG,
check his show out first
and then then look at mine
because I still have to go back
and read my own notes to understand FFMPEG.
But again, when we get the new site working,
this is the sort of thing that I'd like, you know,
tags on these episodes.
So, I also would like some people to volunteer to go back
and listen to some of the old shows
and while you're doing it, you know,
pick out some tags like FFMPEG or WinFF or whatever
so that we can do those cloud tags at the site
and that we can improve the searching
and put better categories in and that sort of thing.
It's something, especially as you're coming up an episode,
between 1,000 and 1.024,
I'd like to kind of focus on the past.
And also during the week,
I referenced some of the older shows,
some of the SSH shows that I've done
back in episode 700, just, you know, 800
and people haven't been listening that long.
So, you know, there is still a wealth of information.
And I mean, when we get to episode 2000,
these, all these examples are still going to be as valid
here, the FFMPEG ones, the Linux and the shelf,
for instance, are all still going to be, you know,
perfectly workable.
It's hilarious that you're talking about episodes 700,
being way back in the past and you're still 700 behind them.
Yeah, and thanks for you put that reference in IRC
to your personal website and your notes on that SSH show
because I, you've seen in the comments,
I left you, I found that very helpful
and has cut down the lag time that I have to wait
to connect to my server.
Yeah, thank you, you're very welcome.
My own blog is, has a intended target audience of one.
It's, I was running a Unix.text file
where I put in all this stuff and then I decided,
well, this is of no use to anybody.
I want to put this up somewhere where, at least,
I can reference all this stuff.
And then if somebody else finds it useful,
didn't well, but the target audience of my website
is me six months from now,
which is why a lot of the, a lot of the podcasts
are entitled six months from now.
Sorry, blogs, not podcasts.
Cool, ready to move on?
Yes.
Okay, episode nine, six nine,
and I should have mentioned this at the beginning.
The Kriven's audio cast is a new series for us.
Now, was this, this was a Thursday show, though, wasn't it?
That's correct.
Okay, so yeah.
And this was, this was this a web.
And was it heavy heavy?
Okay, yeah, and heavy.
And thanks guys for sending that show.
And it was a lot of fun.
It was pretty funny.
It was, most of it, this time was about gaming and,
you know, gaming on Linux and stuff.
And I don't know if they're all going to be like that,
but no, no, no, but it was interesting.
Either way, this was good.
They, I don't, this web was on our HPR show for the new year
show, which is why you listeners may be familiar with them.
And we also have a show in the queue for syndicated Thursday
that Kaby does a touch jam.
Both of these shows bug me, no end.
Kriven's audio cast and touch jam.
And anyone want to know why?
Because you're an Irishman, you hate scots.
It's because I have in my, in my podcasting listening queue,
I have the music shows and I've got the podcasts.
And the music shows I leave at one speed and the podcasts I leave
at I speed up three, four, five times.
And because they play good music in the middle of the shows,
I, I'm stuck deciding whether to speed them up or not.
So as a solution, I listen to these ones at home when I'm
filling the dishwasher and then I use FFM peg has a, has a mold
that you can speed up without turning them into chipmunks.
And then I can slow it down again for the music.
I see. Hey, you know what?
I listen on a rock box, an able player.
And that also can compress time without, without changing pitch.
And it can do it on the fly.
So those shows that hasn't bothered me.
A flaky, I've found a rock box on my son's a clip to be very flaky.
So I went back to the, um, built in us.
Oh, bummer. That, that stinks.
I like it online.
Well, I think Poke and I both have fuses and, uh, yeah,
it's just, I'm glad I finally put rock box on it just for that.
But it does, does get annoying when they do include good music.
I, I agree the same, the same way.
Of course, the HPR theme was like, da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da.
And sped sped up.
You can imagine what that sounds like.
You know, I have, I have a clip plus actually.
It's, uh, same one I can do Ken has.
And it, uh, I don't know, it works fine for me.
Okay, the following day was talk to me news.
And then we had Dev random episode zero, zero.
Yeah, it's hard to even mention Dev random without laughing because that was just a hilarious show.
And, and it was full of news to it.
it wasn't just the laity, it was good, very, very good show.
It's a pity we didn't, we could have included that
on under a new show.
I mean, because especially if you're doing a new show,
you don't want to be sitting in the queue for nine months.
So the next time we'll have to put that up
on under the rule of eight time critical show.
Yeah, I agree or maybe get them in there.
Because I know they well know because they said
that's a randomly recorded, it's not on the schedule,
but that's fine.
We can have a standard rule at a rule in there saying,
we will reserve a slot for that whenever it comes in.
Yeah, it was good.
All right, 9.72 was another Linux in the shell.
Number five for Dan was WC word count.
That was pretty cool.
9.73 freedom.
I use, by the way, real world examples.
I use that every day, every single day.
You do a grip for you looking to see before and after
event in a file in a log file,
and you count the number of instances of a thing,
and then out towards if there's the same or less or more,
then you know, your things are different
and you can investigate or further.
I remember hearing a year ago or two years ago
where somebody had written an article,
or so I can't even remember what the details were,
but I remember somebody wrote an article
and turned it in to something.
I don't know if it was a publication
or a company's internal publication,
and whoever was in charge of the publication rejected it
because it wasn't enough words or had too many words,
or something was not right with it.
And the person who handed it in ran it through WC
on the command line and showed them that the word count
was correct and was able to settle the argument
by using Unix as a standard as opposed to whatever,
probably Microsoft word or something
that they used the word count on that.
And they were able to settle with the WC command.
And I wish I could remember the details now.
Classic, I like it.
The following day we had freedom is not free
with regard to money and that is very valid.
And I think up to as well,
when we're since we're talking about the Plasma Tablet,
if you can afford to invest in a tablet of that price
and take the hit on the 100 euros
is going to be going for the development costs or whatever,
then put your money where you're about this.
And the following day we had, sorry.
Yeah, I was gonna jump in there.
I'd like to add a couple things on that.
When we're talking about supporting open source,
don't forget to support the podcasts and the websites
that you make use of.
I thank you guys for talking before I jumped in
about how door supports so many of these podcasts
through the Linux Basics Mumble Server
that we're on right now.
So if you're listening to us,
why don't you head on over to Linux Basics
and click on the contribute button.
Also, one thing has come up is the Flatter,
not every open source projector or website or podcast
is connected to Flatter, but those that are,
because I know it could get,
it could get awful expensive if you get,
if you cited what I'm gonna give,
20 bucks to Kaboom 2,
and I'm gonna give another 20 to Libre office
and 20 to the Gimp project.
But with Flatter, maybe if you decided
I'm gonna set aside 10, 15, 20 bucks a month
that I'm gonna spread around open source
and through these shows that I listen to,
that way you can set up your own budget
and spread everything around a little bit.
Also, a few of these podcasts out there,
I know the Techie Geek and Doors podcasts,
well, pod nuts at least,
have the Amazon contribute button in other words.
It doesn't cost you anything,
but if you're gonna make a purchase on Amazon,
if you go, and I'm bad about forgetting to do this,
if you go through those websites
and click on that and go from there in the Amazon,
they get at least a small amount of that purchase
back to them, and I really wish somebody
who's smart out there would write a plug-in for Firefox
that would automatically do that for me,
just put a button at the top anytime I'm in,
on Amazon websites, just remember to click
on one of these guys to get a contribution
or advertising kickback however you wanna call it.
What was that website?
Cause I'm gonna buy a Terry Patrick boot right now.
Well, if you go to saythetekieek.com,
there's a button on there that's for Amazon contribution,
the same thing I think for all of the pod nuts websites.
I think he was asking about Flatter,
it's what FLA TTR.
No, I know about Flatter.
I have an interview with one of the people from Flatter,
from Alcams, still in the queue, still not out.
Oh, awesome, you were just asking what the Amazon?
Exactly, actually it might be something worth our while,
just putting, gathering a list of these,
how you can support all the podcasts,
put them on the website somewhere,
links, buttons, Flatter, whatever.
Yeah, and don't forget, you know,
when you're on some of your favorite websites,
to go ahead and allow the ads for those websites,
if you're a real fan of them,
because a lot of people have ads, ad block plus
or some other ad blocker.
And, you know, sometimes that's real good,
cause a lot of the internet is completely unreadable
with the ads in place,
but for some of these people who are your favorite people
and your favorite websites,
you know, you're directly blocking their revenue
with an ad blocker.
Okay, the following day,
we had the North Eastlinx Fest free NAS presentation.
Yeah, that was some Drew Levine,
if I'm not mistaken, that was pretty cool.
I enjoyed that one a lot.
I was at the North Eastlinx Fest,
but I didn't get to hearing of the Fox,
cause I was busy with the table,
so I found that one very interesting.
I liked it a lot.
That's another one of those.
I think Ken and I were talking about one time before that,
oh, it's hard to process,
and just remember all that information.
You get to the end of the podcast,
but that puts it into my memory
when I do want to implement free NAS at some point,
I'll know where to go back and relisten
and program that information and take notes.
Well, I have a little bit of an issue with this,
cause I don't know if people are familiar
with the story behind free NAS,
that, you know, it was always built
as this small device that would run
on anything and turn it into a NAS box.
And now with the addition of something like ZFS,
with the addition of that,
it's turned it into a behemoth.
And the guy who was originally hacked free NAS together,
he left the project, or they took the project
and he wanted to convert it into a Linux solution
to do the same thing.
And they felt that no, they wanted to maintain it
as a NAS project.
And it's been basically completely rewritten
with all the tools that have been rewritten.
And it's run on ZFS,
but it's still called the free NAS project.
So I'm a little bit,
at all point, does it stop being the free NAS project
that everybody knows about and expects
to be the small thing?
Is it fair, the small thing that's got different licenses?
It's, you know, it's a couple of sambar from here
and let's couple this from the Linux side.
That's a good point.
To be a completely other thing
that's just under the name free NAS
that now takes 12 gigabytes to run,
I don't think they're the same project at all.
I was gonna make exactly that same point.
It is obviously progressed into a tool
for network administrators for big enterprises,
not even a small business,
because you're gonna have to,
you can't just take an old box and run ZFS on it.
Now, I believe while back it was
the Sunday morning Linux review show
that they did talk about,
well, you could pick XT4 something like that
and it would be more,
you could still fit it on an older tower
and just take a couple of whole drives in there.
Yeah, but you'd be correct, you know, UFS,
you could run that, but again,
it's still not the same cold.
It's been a complete rewrite
more or less from scratch of a code base.
So they took over the management of the project
and they called it free NAS,
but they're not using the same code.
They've stripped out all the GPL stuff,
which is, don't get me wrong.
I'm not saying what they're doing is wrong in any way.
But I think it's a little bit of a misnomer
because if you Google now version free NAS version two
or whatever the previous version was,
it's all referring to something completely different
that has got a completely different stack
of programs within us, completely different UI
and also a completely different file system underneath.
And to what there is now,
which is a completely different thing.
So I don't, I just think it's confusing
and a little bit, a little bit,
let me see what's the word.
It's ridiculous.
Yeah, it might be a bit a little bit confusing,
let's just say to call that project free NAS
when in actual fact, it's not what most people think
the project free NAS was.
I'd be really surprised if we didn't see someone
take say Debian and throw some on there
and a really light web server to run the management page
just like free NAS used to be
so that you could manage the whole thing through a web page
and do something like that
and do something to fill the niche
that free NAS used to fill.
One thing you do run into these days though,
if you're just taking an old junk computer
that nobody wants, it's awful hard to buy a new ID drive
of any size anymore.
You go on new egg and if you look for new IDE,
I most of them top out at 80 gig,
which really isn't adequate for a backup solution.
And if you're looking for a SATA drive,
then you can buy those,
but then you're talking about a newer,
probably dual core computer and you can find those used,
but you're still talking about putting some money
into your backup solution.
Yeah, the question is I'm running two servers
down here in the basement and they're running an IDE,
they're quite old.
One is Dave Viet's mirror server,
but it's constantly quite a lot on energy every month.
And I'm looking to move to something like a hacked version
of the Pogo plug.
So less, less expensive on energy,
you know, thinking overall more green.
Yeah, I just want to type in,
she did make a reference to a Debian fork of the project.
I don't know if I like it.
I would consider it for to where someone is trying
to run it on Debian.
She didn't mention the project's name,
and I think it would be great to have that name
because that sounds like it might be
the true community version of this.
But I'm not talking about whether it's the same true version
or whatever.
What she was referring to,
he was more comfortable using Linux on the base.
So you have all this stack with all the software
and you have a GUI tools that met up the Freenas project
and underneath you had a free BSD stack, yeah.
And that project continued on as another project.
And all the tools from the stack up, you know,
where essentially it doesn't really matter
because it goes down to the hardest,
no one will ever see it.
He wanted to replace it with Linux.
So that's that's been forked off as another project.
So to me, it would be,
that is what when people think of a Freenas device,
that's what that's what they're thinking of.
And not this new thing where the entire stack
from scratch has been rewritten.
So if you think of a stack going from, you know,
the various different versions of the Linux kernel
right up to the management stuff,
Samba and all the rest of it, up on top.
If you just replace the kernel,
how much of a percentage of the project
has been replaced in actual fact?
I think it's a good bit of it
because as soon as you take the BSD kernel out
and put the Linux kernel in,
you're losing everything that has to do with ZFS
and so much of the new project.
Yeah, ZFS, that was my point.
ZFS hasn't been in Freenas.
The Freenas that will run on your toaster
that's been on the websites open till now, you know,
that's if you Google Freenas right now,
that's, you know, will run on anything.
That was the project that people were referring to, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
I'm asking you this because she made specific reference
to the Freenas seven branch being the older one
and the Freenas eight branch being the newer one.
This, I'm not as familiar with how the BSD community works,
but is that seven branch going to continue
to be maintained with the old tools
is that community going to jump on that
or is it just being abandoned?
I honestly don't know.
And, you know, it more power to them
for continuing on with the Freenas project.
I'm just, my issue is more on the confusion that would arise
that people would assume that there was a different,
that this was the same identical project
and would have the same expectations of it.
When, in fact, it should be like something
like Freenas, BSD or something.
Yeah, it's definitely, I mean,
they got taken over by a corporate entity
they're being maintained by a corporate entity.
So there's this corporate interests involved here.
And I, in my few of interviews to edit and post,
I did interview Drew Levine
and she made specific reference to that Freenas
is now a corporate tool
and is intended for the corporate environment.
It is not intended for the home user
throw it in your basement machine
while it can be used for that.
They understand that this is meant to be run
on high-end hardware for corporate use.
Yeah, but that was, there was always that element
that company, the name again,
is asking me, sorry, everybody, it's a bit later.
I've always been supporting the Freenas project.
So, you know, that's nothing new really
in the Freenas development.
And I think they should be applauded for that.
And you have to remember that again,
the BSD philosophy about how corporations work
is a lot more corporation-friendly
than, you know, what a traditional S was Linux
advocates might consider.
Anyway, shall we move on to the next and last show?
Let's do it.
It was episode nine, seven, five, y-16 cores.
I really enjoyed the show, I must say.
He was upset, that was pretty funny.
He's right, he's so right.
Yeah, no, I can speak to that.
I mean, the dual processor motherboards
and they still make them the fit in the traditional ATX
form factor, though usually you're
going to see something like that in a rack server.
And it's my understanding, and Ken probably knows
more about than I do, that if you have a server
that's running a database and multiple queries in and out
and hundreds of users, then you can make use
of those 16 cores.
Now, he was talking about gaming and usually
the server processors are not at all adaptable to gaming
anymore, because usually you can't plug in a high-end GPU
video card and make it work with those processors.
And even if you're building a gaming system,
you have to remember the games, even though they're taking
more and more resources, their market mostly is to some kid
trying to run the game on his dad's Dell with two cores
and built an Intel video.
And that's sort of been the bane of the industry that,
even though we have multiple cores, just only in the last
probably year, we've seen games actually designed to use
more than one processor core.
And very, very few games out there will make use of more
than two.
So when you see in the magazines, they talk about your
where to spend your money on builds, of course,
more and more GPUs, but as far as processors,
it's sort of a toss-up.
Usually if you're trying to save your money,
if you can go higher clock speed on a dual core processor,
you're better off than buying a slower quad core or
a sceptical processor.
But common wisdom on that now is going with more than two
cores makes you more future proofs that maybe you'll be
faster on the game sold today, but will you be faster
on the game sold next year or two years down the road?
I don't know.
I think if I had 16 cores in my kid's Minecraft server,
that game might finally run smooth.
Well, and the other thing is, when you're comparing
Intel and AMD, and I'm a big fan of the things AMD are doing,
but usually if you compare price from one side to the other,
you can probably buy a quad core AMD for the same price
you can buy a dual core i5 or i3 Intel processor.
But everything I've read says your games will probably still
at the same price point run faster on the Intel chip.
Yeah, that's absolutely true for right now.
I don't think it's going to be too much longer, though.
Before we're going to have a pretty big flip where I think
game engines are going to flip over to ray tracing,
and ray tracing is going to run great on multiple, multiple cores.
And I think eventually the video cards are just going to go away.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but this episode,
the peak was talking about a server processor anyway, wasn't he?
Yes, but he said he did make the point.
He said he didn't really game, but you know,
who is a gamers trying to use this many cores?
Yeah, if you're sitting there running the lever office,
I don't think you're going to tax one core.
Yeah, but he wasn't, he's building a desktop machine
out of a server processor and a server motherboard is my point.
So I think there are plenty of uses for 16 cores
on a high load system, but each building a desktop system.
So I mean, that could be wrong about this,
but you know, maybe that's where the, where this isn't machin' out.
Well, I think Blender would run really, really fast on 16 cores.
I bet you turn a clock to loose on one of these.
He'd just be in heaven.
All right, so feel free to leave your feedback on the comment
thread for this episode, for episode 975.
I'm sure Deep Peek would love to have your feedback.
And that wraps up our shows for this month.
I just wanted to say, you know, thanks to Deep Peek for that.
But also to Brockton Bob, we had you in the schedule
as that Friday, but we didn't have a show from you.
So if that show got lost somewhere in the ether,
somewhere in the cloud, can you re-upload that show
because we've still got you in the queue,
or else we just made a mistake in thinking
that you had another show ready for us.
I honestly kind of find that.
And I'm so, dis, so juggling so many things
that the minute I can't have no recollection
of having that show anywhere.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
No, I just said I couldn't, I couldn't find any reference
to it anywhere except for it was listed in our show queue.
Okay, before we go, I wanted to say I have project
epic announcement.
We've been talking about we are going to test the capabilities
of the mumble server and door and I have come up
with a date for that.
It is Friday, May 11th.
And the lug on, it's the same mumble server we're talking on
right now.
If you go to Linux6.com, the connection settings are there.
And it's Friday, the lug starts at 8 p.m. Eastern time.
And of course, Linux makes start right after that.
So Friday, Friday the 11th.
And I'd understood the upgrades he was going to need to make
to take even more people than he normally does
was something he would just set and it'd be like that forever.
But it's something he does on a per incident basis.
I guess it only cost him like a buck.
But since I gave him the heads up on when we were going
to do it, he'll have it set up for that night
to allow a whole lot more connections.
And what if you don't remember from previous episodes,
we wanted to test to see how many people we could invite
into the panel for the history of HPR on episode 1024,
which will air according to the schedule on the 5th of July.
So we just want what we're trying to do
is get enough people on there so we can see how many people
it takes to break a door's mumble server.
So if you can hear me, I would very much like you
to if you don't have an installed install mumble on your on
your Linux or even on your Windows, you know, that's okay too.
And join us on door server.
It's mumble.openspeak.cc, port six, four, seven, four, seven.
And all the details are there on the Linux basics homepage.
And that's l-i-n-u-x-b-a-s-i-x.com.
And come join us and let's see if we can knock door server off line.
That's all the host, that's all the listeners.
All the people from the range of my voice tell your friends.
All right, so a proper load test next Friday, Friday after next,
the 11th of May.
All right, and that leads us into the rest of our news.
We can get to this.
We already talked about deep, deep, deep,
taking some time off upgrades in this technology.
He should be back in June or July, depending on how that goes
and how we answer he gets to getting back to podcasting.
David Whitman, who was running the Linux Fest Northwest
table, the HBR table at Linux Fest Northwest.
He says that he got the HBR conference kit, such as it is in time.
And he has built quite a display to go behind that table.
And oh man, there will be a picture in the show notes for this.
It's fantastic.
Yeah, it's really incredible.
He took and made kind of a tree shape,
co-rack shaped kind of a thing out of on PVC pipe
to hold the banner up high.
And to get some color prints up, that's really, really incredible.
He's going to draw a lot of crowds with that display.
So I check the show notes here for some pictures.
And let's hope he updates us with some pictures from that event,
which is happening now as we are recording.
He contacted me earlier to say he was going to try and call in,
but obviously that didn't work out from.
Yeah, bandwidth at Linux Fest always seems
to be never seems to deliver what's promised.
We'll say that.
But he's also making good use of your presentation slides, too,
because those are on a loop on the computer at the table.
So whenever he's not using that computer for reporting
or whatever else is going on, he's got your slides going on loop.
I've actually added them to the git repository
because the whole plan of when I was doing each of those slides
was a lot of them are factual.
Like the number of shows, the number of hours of content,
and that sort of thing, but that is sort of variables
that I want available on the websites as well,
so that we can keep that maintained every day.
Now we have 30 gigs of that.
Now we have so many hours of that.
And now we're running this long.
So that, ideally, if somebody can tell me a way
to automatically put text into a ODP document
so that we'll automatically be updated, that would be cool.
ODP, a open document text.
Yeah, or open document presentation, whatever that one is.
Yep, yeah.
OK, so and then, of course, can you just
completed the bar and project interview?
And that shows coming up.
But was there anything you wanted to say about it now?
Because that project is pretty exciting in your area.
It's, yeah, it's actually in the UK.
It's over just like Blackpool.
And I got thrown out, I put on to it
because my brother just lives outside of a city's home.
What is it?
It's about the running fiber optic ducting
to every home, every single home in a huge area in the UK,
in an amount and somewhere.
And everybody is going to get one gigabyte gigabit
up and down fiber connection.
Every farm, every school, every business is getting this.
I'd expect that.
It's an amazing, an amazing project
for what people can do to, you know, when they sit down.
And the amount of information that they have on the website
available for other people to do exactly the same thing,
it's the show is going to be out during the week.
So you'll get a chance to hear that.
OK, cool.
And as you folks heard at the beginning of this show,
we played the promo for the, for the episode 1000 submissions.
Bobby Tell, we're a little desperate for submissions
at this time.
Last time we had nine, maybe 10 submissions on 5150
for episode 1000.
So please get those in as quickly as you can.
And we're going to have a link to that promo.
So if you know anybody who's got a podcast that we don't know,
having thought of, please email them and send them that promo.
They can play that for us if they'd like.
And we should have two promos.
We'll have that one that we played the beginning
was almost two minutes long.
And another one that 5150 and I are going
to record immediately following this show that we're
recording here.
And it should be much shorter.
So if you could send them both and let the shows decide
which fits their format better, that would be fantastic.
So, you know, tweet, event it, blog it, g plus it,
Facebook it, whatever technology you have,
please help us to get the word out that we need these submissions
quickly for episode 1000 to go off this plan.
Yeah, I think on Tiltz, one of the other podcasts
they said that would be a good use of the dial in technology,
the phone number on the website.
Somebody also said something about there having trouble
using the US number, so.
Yeah, the US number is broken.
I've called that a couple days in a row now.
And it is as of this recording, it is not working.
If you want to send it to email or mind you again,
that's EP, the numeral one, K. So it looks like epic,
but there's a one in there at hackerpublicradio.org.
And that's where my show notes run out.
And what else did we have on those notes?
I think that pretty much wraps it up on our end.
There is some activity going on in the background
there for the tutorials, the development
and mailing is so if you're interested in doing
some development, you could get in touch with us.
We had a kickoff meeting, which is essentially me
waffling for an hour and other people listening,
but I don't particularly want to turn it into
a benevolent dictator project.
I think there's enough of those around.
However, I did outline kind of what my view
and the thing was to make it as portable as possible,
based on all the interfaces on the RSS 2.0 standard
with some Ataman and Apple namespace additions
to the standard, that if we're able to carry that
in, we're able to carry all the podcast information
that we need in that, which we should be able to do
because essentially we're a podcast,
then we can use that RSS format as the format
which people cannot upload their shows
even if they're off site at home.
They know that if they fill out all the required fields
in that, then we can then submit a VFTP or whatever,
put it on the button on the website that you can download.
So that was essentially it.
So it was a lot of homework for people to go off
and investigate that standard.
And there's a few open questions that need to be answered
how we're going to carry tags.
For instance, I've seen it done on other websites.
It's just would be good if there was an XML or RSS expert out
that could help us a little bit with that.
But was it nice?
I have one personal request for the audience here.
I came across a podcast just recently that I enjoyed a whole lot.
It was very system-related.
Very, it would be a nice fit for Hackerbot with radio
in our syndicated queue.
And I left them some feedback and I was hoping
that some folks could head over to their website
and plus one my feedback so that they might consider
adding their show to our queue
because they don't have any license right now
for a release in their show.
And I just see a copyright logo at the bottom of their page.
And I don't think that's the way they intended to do it.
But maybe they haven't given any thought yet.
But it's called the DistributedQuadcast.
And they're at DistributedQuadcast.com.
And if you head over there and click on their feedback
and right now it's on the second page,
because it's got no votes yet.
But yeah, if you could plus one that
and just let them know that we're out there also
because I think it would be a good fit for one another
on that show.
I listened to their episode on Boy,
now I can't find it.
Shoot, what's it called?
It's a Java thing, the Disruptor, something Disruptor.
It was way over my head.
But what fits and pieces of it, I get
understand were just fantastic.
It was a great interview.
But anyway, that's just a personal thing.
I thought it was good and I thought
it would be a good fit.
So if you wanted to, you know, plus one,
my comment on that, I'd appreciate it.
Where is that?
Can you send me a link to the show notes, please?
Yeah, sure will.
And it's just distributedpodcast.com,
not the distributedpodcast.com.
That's correct, distributedpodcast.com.
Yeah, but I don't know which comments,
which polls do you have commented on?
If you click their link for feedback
and then go to the second page,
it's the one that says HPR in it.
Okay, we'll do.
Sorry, I was gonna say it said to release your audio files
under a CC license so that they can be syndicated
on hacker public radio.
That was my comment there.
I'm doing it now.
Cool, thanks again.
And that's it for me.
Okay, just get free votes.
One thing I wanted to bring up,
and you've probably heard the promo
on Delinux Lake Tech Show.
And if you're not listening to Tilt Shame on you,
you need to be.
But it's the fiction audio cast,
sort of like an old time radio show.
This thing of ours,
if you go over to decoratedair.com.
And the reason I mentioned it,
lost in Bronx, he's not writing it,
but he does one of the voices for these episodes.
And it is a audio drama, sort of 1970s mob story.
So it's not, it's certainly not Eddie Kay,
but it might be guys who live in the neighborhood
of Eddie Kay and Sal,
guys that they would bump into.
And it's, there's funny parts,
but it's not a comedy.
And if you haven't been listening to that,
that's the thing you do after this podcast,
run over to decoratedair.com.
And download the episodes for the first season.
And you'll see when you get there,
that they are, they have a casting call
for a couple of guys to play FBI agents.
So those of us who can't even approach
that sort of Eddie Kay type accent
could actually try out for this.
I intend to record one later today.
So if you haven't heard of that,
I think there's no way you won't like it.
So go right over there, it's probably not,
well, it's definitely not safe for work.
So check that out.
It's close to being safe for work,
but you're right, it's probably an NSF tag is a broken.
I want to thank you for bringing that up 50, 150,
because I was on an episode of that as well.
And I imagine I'll be a returning character on there.
I hope to be, but I was a fan of that
long before I recorded part for it,
but it is a really, really good audio drama.
I was just going to tell Pok,
I hope he doesn't get bumped off in the next episode.
No, but I wouldn't mind it either.
It's not my show, so whatever.
Again, can you send me links for the show notes?
Might be no harm to send links for both of those shows
over to Dan at thelinuxlink.net.
Okay, guys, I'm falling apart here.
Can we wrap it up or at least I'll head off to bed?
I think I'm all set that anyone have anything to add.
All right then, on behalf of everyone here tonight,
I want to thank everyone for listening.
On behalf of everyone listening,
I want to thank everyone for showing up in their boarding
and we'll see you again next month.
Happy Queens Day, everybody.
Take care and my news this morning said
this was World Wide Penguin Day,
but when I looked on the internet,
there seems to be little, when we record this,
not when you're hearing it,
but little confusion about when that date is,
but in any case, happy World Wide Penguin Day, everyone.
Well, let's say Queens birthday over here in the Netherlands.
So today, when it'll be released,
so everybody will be dressed in orange
and out drinking stuff.
And playing Queen at high volume?
Surprisingly not, no.
Well, tell her I said happy birthday when you see her.
Sure.
Hey, 5150.
I just realized we're getting close
to 1,000 episodes of HPR.
You think we should do anything special?
Polka, I'm glad you asked that.
We are planning two special episodes.
For episode 1,000, we're asking our listeners
current and former HPR hosts
and fellow podcasters to record their well wishes
and recollections of the early days
of Ben Rev Radio, Radio Freak America,
today with a techie and hacker public radio,
and send them to ep1k at hackerpublicradio.org.
Epic, huh?
No, Polka.
Edward Papa, one kilo at hackerpublicradio.org.
The fact that it looks like Epic is purely a coincidence,
it stands for episode 1,000.
Good, because I did one Epic podcast already.
So is that all we're doing?
No, for episode 1,024,
we will be inviting members of the Infonomicon Computer Club
and the host of Radio Freak America, Ben Rev, Podfurt,
Tawtech, and the early days of HPR
to join me on a panel discussion
about the legacy of hacker public radio.
I'll be contacting the original host by email
or if they think their contact info may be out of date,
they can go ahead and mail me at ep1k
at hackerpublicradio.org.
That sounds great,
just as long as you don't expect me to edit the whole thing.
No worries.
Wow, 1,000 episodes.
Let's see Tiltz go and top that.
Dude, your mic is still on.
You have been listening to hacker public radio
at hackerpublicradio.org.
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever considered recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker public radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Cloud.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binrev.com.
All binrev projects are proud to sponsor by lunar pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stated,
today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a like, free.or license.
