Episode: 893
Title: HPR0893: 2011-2012 Hacker Public Radio New Year's Eve Part 3/8 (Everybody loves Crunchbang... except Klaatu)
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0893/hpr0893.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 04:18:19

---

Can we get over this?
Hello and welcome!
Thank you there!
All right. Hey, Class II, you may want to get out your fanboy and you can swing it at
me if I get too good at you here. But do you want to take the opportunity to talk to
Cornomial and about CrunchBang? No, actually, I was about to ask the same thing because I
don't know. I've heard of CrunchBang. I know next to nothing about it except that I think
I heard it was it had an open box desktop by default. That's all I know. Oh, for real Cornomial,
are you on? Do you know your mic right now? Yeah. All right. Great. I just want to say I not
only use CrunchBang on a daily basis, but I use it and appreciate it on a daily basis every time.
I've got it installed on my my EPC 701 and it's in the kitchen and every morning when I when I
get home from work, I turn it on and I start up G Potter and I think and every morning I plug
SD card into it and load my podcasts on there and I every day I appreciate it that 701 has a
use and I appreciate the work that's gone into it. And in the since statler came out and I put it
on it, I have had exactly one problem with that machine and I mean I cannot say enough good things
about CrunchBang and about the work you've done. So thank you for that. Hey, thanks. I appreciate
your kind words. And I just just like to put in here because that's the way I'm these
Philip and Becky are two of the nicest people you might ever have met. I know I met them as
I'll camp my only social event of the year and they took me under the wing. They'll all the
interviews that were taken at the outside were all organized by a coronominal. Winding got people
brought out brought up beer as well which is also nice and lined up all those interviews and
they're still more to come. So big thanks. Hey, no problem. You were quite you were amazing
at camp but you were like a casting robot. You were just non-stop. It was quite a sight to see.
And I'm heading over to Fostem. We have a table over there as well. I often started bugging
people about that yet but I'm looking for some people to come and give us a hand on the table.
I want Fostem. I don't think it's a go to Fostem but he won't go. Come, come on. You can do the
table with me. Do you got a real Fostem? Yeah. Take me to Fostem for a minute. All right people,
we need somebody to send in some money. So go to CrunchBang.org, press the delay button and
donate. No, shut up. Mute him. Press the donate button and send him some cash. He doesn't need
that much. It's just get from the UK to... Yeah, we'll do a picture of the cast. Yeah, let's do this.
No, you don't want to do that. Fostem, I don't know. It's just quite intimidating I think. There's
quite a lot of like proper serious hackers there and I can't mingle with no circles.
No, you'll be coming. You'll be helping me on the HPR table. You'll be just a HPR correspondant.
That's all. This is who this is. Yeah, that's right. It could be a HPR pin.
I'm as intimidated by you being a proper hacker compared to me. Yeah, no kidding. This is the guy
who put together the OS that makes my ETC useful and you're intimidated by like hackers. That's
like somebody listening now saying they're intimidated to post a show on HPR.
I think it's very self-depreciating. Yeah, it's to be fair. Crunchbang is... I mean, I love hacking on
Crunchbang but I think I do feel kind of uncomfortable accepting any credit for it because fair,
you know, it is basically it's Debian and Openbox and a lot of the time I just feel like
maybe a bit of a cocktail shaker. I'll just shake a cocktail and maybe just stick everything
together and make it work well. A lot of the hacking and stuff. That's all done by the professionals.
Fair enough, but if I walk over to a liquor cabinet right now and just start pouring in things
that I like until I think I have everything I like in there and shake it up, that's a nasty,
nasty recipe. It takes real skill to mix a drink and it takes real skill to mix a distro and you
can't, you can't downsell that. Real skill or luck? I'd rather be lucky than good any day.
So what is involved with what you're doing in Karnomo? I mean, like what what do you sit down and do?
You just, you're remixing the packages and then putting them together such that they create a
live booth that will install. Is that sort of what you do? Yes, pretty much it.
I mean, you've clattered, you've not used Crunchbang so if I just give you a brief explanation as
to what it is, I mean, basically it is Debian but with my own choice of packages on top of a
minimal install, so I'll put open box on and then basically my favourite applications and then
I'll, what I'll try and do is produce a finished image which I can install on any of my systems that
all, you know, will just work for me. So, you know, if anybody else uses it and they like it,
that's brilliant, but you know, if somebody uses it, they don't like it. It's not really a problem
I'm not going to lose any sleep over it. But yeah, I think what I try to do is package up,
maybe do some modifications to Debian, the Debian distribution can't actually do for reasons of,
you know, they like to be a free open source distribution whereas I'm a bit more of a pragmatist
and so, for example, I will ship certain Wi-Fi drivers on there which are proprietary binary blobs
and other things as well such as, I think you were talking about Liblay earlier, the MP3
so that works out of the box and it's nice and neat. And why not actually if you're in a jurisdiction
that doesn't support a one thing actually what about the post install script as well because
Philip or a lot of the users they really like on the latest release the post install script
and you did script that yourself. That is actually what I want to do, say Becky, but thank you very
much for coming here. Yeah, I just point out that Becky's actually now giving me two fingers.
We're sat on the set a same set a and she's sticking herself. Yeah, I was going to six more than
just picking some packages because I can do that. There's also the theming that goes on,
there's the scripting that gets it to recognize everything, there's the config files that make it work.
I mean, you know, I have sat down with other distributions and tried to get them to work on that
EPC and spent days and days and days and not had anything that works as well as CrunchBang does
out of the box and that's just on an EPC with you know 600 megahertz process or put it on a real
computer and it's really something. That seems to be one of the big things that I've heard about
about CrunchBang is that is the ease of setup and yet the underlying power so I guess that would
probably be that setup script that they're talking about. And I don't know, just to explain to some
people if you haven't installed CrunchBang which you should do at least in the virtual machine
is after the login does bare minimum install you got some sensible questions. Do you want SSH
installed? Here's what it is. Yes, no, boom. Do you want this installation installed on the office?
Do you want to go into more advanced things? Yes, no, yes, no. And the script is just there in the
sub directory and you can edit it and have access and rerun it at any time. Really a stroke of genius
and I don't know why more people don't do that. He did it more for me because I'm so stupid when I'm
doing my upgrades. It sounds a little bit like Blackwares, some of Slackwares package helpers like
XWM config, package tool, things like that where it kind of knows what you've got installed
after your initial install but if you ever need to go back and rerun anything you can always do that.
Yeah, I mean to be fair, I think probably like most users, I've got a bin directory full of
completely random shell scripts and so what I've tried to do with CrunchBang is and it's purely for
my own purpose. It's take these shell scripts and put them into, well, place them within CrunchBang
itself so that every time I install CrunchBang, say on a new system, if I want to get up a lamp stack
really quickly but not the default lamp stack which say comes with, because you can do that for a
demo in itself by the task selector or task cell is it or something like that.
I'm basically the bash script will set up for my own to my own preferences which
it's just little things which makes work easier so it'll install, for example Apache and
my SQL server and stuff like that but then it'll go, once that's installed it'll go in and modify
the config file so that things like mod rewrite work and just little things I think and I think
it's a little thing sometimes which matters. It's definitely the little things that matter in
a distro because all of distros have the major things worked out. I mean Ubuntu had their
1000 paper cuts project or whatever it was but it's also the little things that a newbie like
myself run into and have no clue where to look to resolve a problem and sometimes don't even know
how to ask for help or how to ask what direction to be pointed in so it's definitely those little things.
I'm curious Cornon how you dictate what you put into CrunchBang. I mean there are times where you're
maybe scripting something we're setting it up to work a certain way and you think well gee what if
not all the users want it that way like you're almost deviating from sort of like upstream or
something or do you just set it up literally this is how I want it to work and so that's how I'm
going to I'm that's how I'm going to make it work and if people like that then great they don't
then they don't have to use it is that like what what how do you make that call.
Yeah it's pretty much as you just said I mean I don't think you can accommodate
you know everybody in fact I know you can't accommodate everybody so I think you know you just
have to think to yourself well this is how I want it it works for me so if it works for me it's
going to work well there's a good chance it'll work for somebody else if it doesn't then you know
I can't help that it doesn't matter what I do. You got it. Do you take it personal when people
use the phrase benevolent dictator? No I'm quite I'm quite thick skinned out I'm ready to
take anything very personally. Nice I just that was a term I remember hearing bandied about
several years ago an awful lot especially when I'm going to start to get a lot of popularity
people would say about shuttle work and occasionally they said it about that other dude with the
the the fruit computer but yeah I don't I think it works I think it can work. I'm not sure if I ever
understood that that term to be honest I mean I know that I don't particularly like it because
I don't believe there's such a thing but I mean I don't think that any software project or any
really project that you're organizing that you're managing there's got to be a project manager
at the at the top and I'm I'm assuming that's what they mean by benevolent dictator but I'm not
really sure what it means. That's Becky. Yeah well it's just a dictator you know it's not necessarily
a bad rules with an iron fist it's a person who's been put in charge to make the hard decisions
that a committee cannot make I mean that's that's its traditional definition when the Romans were
using it and you know they always saw it as as a good thing and it was like a weapon of last
resort against you know a threat to society so it's just who's been you know put in charge of
that thing and they and they are benevolent. But in that sense then every project has a benevolent
dicker. I mean Slackware has Pat, Debian has whoever they're little commute you know they're Debian
person that they change every three years or whatever it is you know I mean everything's got that
I don't see the point in that term. Yeah I see where you're going with that I get that like I yield.
But with the punch bang where it's just sort of a bit of a one man project anyway that surely by
default would make him a benevolent dictator because you know he's dictating to himself it's his
project. But I guess in the sense that there's there's the ability to talk to this person who's
making the distribution to me that doesn't that doesn't mean dictator to me that means a project manager
or project to me something like that. Yeah I wouldn't class myself as a benevolent dictator.
Wait wait would you say you're a dictator then it's not benevolent.
No I sometimes refer to myself as the project lead but to be fair you know it's just a project
it's not I don't I don't really need to get that serious about it. And also if ever you've
actually been onto the punch bang forum so you'll see that actually that we do take a lot of
input from the community punch bang is more about the community. Which makes it fit right in here.
Yeah it's a fair point. I mean to be fair the crunch bang community is brilliant and we've got
some forums set up and the majority well not the majority but you know a lot of users on the crunch
do you use them? Yes we are sort of losing him. No this is something that happens can it happens
to you a lot too and you don't notice it where where you're a great physical distance from the server
it's something about buffer kind of like running out and the audio will die for a good five to
10 seconds and when it picks up in it's right where your word broke off so it's just traffic
you know traffic the packets being re-brought it it happens all the time so if it does happen
to somebody just hold on for a minute. I think it's a re-sync of something. Yeah and I think
it happens. Yeah and with the multi track recording I can cut that silence out and the word
goes back together perfectly in the recording afterwards. Sorry sorry to distract. That's okay
well I think we were talking about Fedora. Yes you were seeing how great the Fedora community was
when they failed in front bang. No for it was right in the fact that like say a lot of the crunch
bang community they don't actually run crunch bang and those that do you know they either have a
preference for the older version they don't like the new updated ISO images so they've not
upgraded the new version you know it's more about like say being part of the community and sharing
ideas and you know other other interests that you know just from their day-to-day lives as well.
Nice that's really really that's really and everybody kind of sees it as their own personal this is
what I like and if no one else except they're not terribly bothered that's really cool.
Was crunch bang ever based on Ubuntu? I seem to have some memory of it being on Ubuntu and
at some point or am I just completely remembering incorrectly. No you you're a remembering
correct. I think you're the first person I've heard this question whether it was ever based
on Ubuntu because it's it's been based on Debian now for probably what was it for the first Debian
version came out in February last year or this year hang on a minute what's the time?
I think it was that well February 2011 was the first official release non-development Debian released
so but before that it was based on Ubuntu yeah. Can you comment on the reason for the change?
Well seems like quite a while ago now so probably forgot on what made me really angry about Ubuntu
maybe you know it was probably the no because it was it was to be fair it was before uni and I
don't know and uni was you know it doesn't matter anyway because you know crunch bang's always
really been about providing an open box desktops or environment the it was I don't know I
know I was quite happy Ubuntu user for a number of years but I think maybe within the last two
years or two or two or more years maybe certain things happened in with the Ubuntu community where
Ubuntu for me at least anyway Ubuntu became it became less about the community and being
you know a distribution developed for the community by the community and became more of a
well canonicals influence over the project became a lot stronger I think and that was
you could see that not only in the distribution itself but there was certain things which were
happening in packages which it became it just became a bit of a pain really to maintain and so
I think the obvious choice was just to skip Ubuntu and move straight to Debian and
you know I've not regretted it at all but Debian's a great system and you know I use you know
I use crunch bang because obviously because you know I developed it for myself so mainly so I
use it but you know I still refer to myself as a Debian user am I just incorrect did I remember
that you worked for a canonical at one point we were wiped out again no I've never worked for
canonical okay sorry I don't know where they came from then well here's a question and this might
be a new question for all I know but it seems to me like let's say that that I have some power
PC boxes which I do a lot of and the one distro that will run on that comfortably is a is Debian
because they maintain you know power PC actively and if I wanted to say okay now I want to try out
this crunch bang it seems to me like those kinds of array those kinds of configurations or whatever
it's really just kind of a set of packages that you hand pick I mean that's what it boils down to
it is sort of unless I'm wrong and correct me if I am have you ever is there a way to make a
distribution without making a downloadable ISO you know like almost some kind of I don't know I don't
know how that would be done maybe you can just maybe you see where I'm going with this and just
kind of is that something that could be done or or not yeah Tony I mean I'm not sure what I think
people's qualifications or you know what they define as being a distro is you know I think it differs
from person to person but I mean what I used to do for crunch bang was I would provide a downloadable
ISO image and all a it was a let's just basically just a script which would you'd first of all
the user would install a would install Ubuntu a minimal Ubuntu installation so basically you'd
just get the so you kernel when you use land packages say and then you'd you'd W get the
crunch bang script you'd run it as a root and basically that would set up a Ubuntu minimal
install to you know it would mirror the downloadable ISO so I mean it's pretty it's doable
I've stopped doing that for for the deberium release because well it's just easy to be fair it's
easier and a lot less work to work on one system and there's certain things you can do on a you
can do with a downloadable ISO which would be a real pain in the ass to be fair to do you know
just buy a single script gotcha I'm not going to say slack or media poke
well I learned I just said it I love crunch bang it's utterly stable utterly dependable like I
said I've had exactly one problem with it that I can't figure out every every once in a while when
I put an SD card in there it doesn't mount it and that's I mean that's it that is the sum total
of problems I've ever had with the statler release of crunch bang it's it's just fantastic
how do you turn off the guy and talking up on the top right in corner the moped
what do you want to stowler why do you want to turn him off he's cool yes he is but he comes up
at the wrong time and you can't actually you can't get him to be fair to Ken you're not the only
person that's mentioned that and I have actually for the for the the latest release it doesn't
actually feature he's still in the all you need to do basically is go to your open box auto start
script so you know it's in your home directory config slash open box slash auto start.sh for
your release I would think open that and just edit it out it's called there's a little script
which is called cb cb fortune maybe I think so just comment that out and I'll stop it from up here
and but to be fair for the last release I'll put out I just commented it out because I thought
I thought I'm a I think there's there's boundaries which I'm slowly learning which you don't want
to step out step over which you know for me it might be fun to have a little moped appearing
at the top right corner of my system giving me a random quote but for other people you know it
might be a bit off-putting so I've stopped it doing it by default but the line's still there if
you want it under new release you just uncomment line and it'll you know you'll get a map it on
your system. Wow I thought you guys were kidding that's hilarious I love it I want this. I love the
map it's a joke I didn't know that was a serious question I've never seen that on my system I'm
going to have to go find that line and uncomment it that's statler himself in fact right yeah that's
statler the the out wise muppet and how do you know I'm sued by the Linux action show for using
him probably or Disney yeah right yeah no the else got its price actually because the muppets
around what Disney now I don't like but yeah no nobody said anything so then you know even if
they wanted to sue me I've got no money so I won't be able to pay. Crunchback.org or slash donations
forward slash donate actually I should I should probably take the opportunity to thank everybody for
because I've had quite a few donations over the last month or so since I've put up
from I'm actually building I'm trying to build a new website for the project so to make everything
a lot he you know because Crunchback itself it's if you've never used it before or you've you've
say come from a no more KDE environment where everything's done in the GUI it can be maybe a little
bit off put into new users so I'm trying to build a new website which is more accessible and there's
more it makes you see information key information which I think maybe yeah it's not hard to find
that information but I'm trying to make it put it up front so these there so when people download
the image or you know they download the before they actually install it they can get a good idea
of what the system's about so that they don't install it and then just think oh no this is
crap oh man all I do is open up Google type how to statler and then I type what I'm looking for
and I've never had a problem finding you know what I need to get done and I am that perpetual
move was used to do everything in the GUI I think that's one of my favorite things about Crunchback
is that most of the settings are just hyperlinks or simlinks to the config files so it's it's very
explorable and helps you learn a little bit about how the the different configurations for each
program works more you guys talk about it the more it makes me think of slackware to be honest it
just it sounds like it's very script very shell script based and and keeps track of text plain
text config files that you get to edit or or not depending on your needs sounds sounds pretty nice
it's slackware without the pain of making tea but I like the pain of making tea oh no no
salic slackware without the pain of making tea that's that's not so short change them but
yeah a lot a lot of the things that there are to love about slackware are the same things to love
about Crunchback for sure yeah I mean the thing is about Crunchback it's I mean if you were to do
with a minimal debing and stall and then in stall open box you know it's not overly difficult
if you know what you're doing so you know from that aspect Crunchback you know it's not unusual
but what I try to do is and you so there's items in the menus for you know editing pretty much
every file that's associated to open box and there's you know there's a menu item for editing
you know certain things such as a panel configs and you know conky config so I'll try to make
it as easy or as usable as possible from the beginning whereas if you were to try to
like say install not create an open box system from scratch on devian you know it's actually quite
quite a bit hard work to you know set it up and you know get it up to a nice usable state I think
so I think you know from that point of view I think Crunchback works quite well can I have to get
my husband to talk short of sentences is it clipping out for you to yes sorry oh no worries it's
really obvious and audacity where it happens and it's easy to to to clip that silence out it's
that's one real nice thing about audacity is it seems to um it'll grab your cursor and bring it
right to the edge of the silence so it's really easy to clip that out of there there's also at out all
of the ends I wish that's what takes me so long to post a show after I record it I was
doing a sorry canonical go ahead uh who I was just gonna say who um who says
but I'm boop I was thinking of doing a pro uh April fool episode where there was who
reviewing the audacity home feature oh nice it involved I don't think anybody would get the joke except
for uh yeah only the people who podcast and actually record would would get it the auto um
would love that all of the herbs all of the herbs that you add out you should put together
as a podcast and run there you go okay you know what makes me think probably could
edit out the ums automatically if you uh because it does have that that noise removal where it will
sample audio then delete that uh things that match that sample you probably could get rid of a good
bit of it yeah along with the rest of your voice during everything else you say yeah I know when
you do heavy when you do heavy um noise removal you really get mechanical sounding right yeah
is it not quite natural like to um say um as we all say um it really is natural to say it when
you're editing yourself in a podcast it's grading I got well I'll tell you where for it because
I don't think I've ever edited a podcast you're so lucky yeah and it's the fun the funny thing is
you don't um notice when other people do you only notice it you do it yeah but if you start
editing ums and things out of your podcasts I'll never get uh shows up here so don't bother
about that send them into HPR you can edit the mouse when you become rich in films
also I need somebody's help on setting up a nice cast really please somebody's help
up a nice kind of room does it there's any reason why we say um it's like three people talking at
once yeah I didn't hear anything that any of the three of you said okay so mom is a trivial question
as in as in do we know why we say um I was as opposed to saying something else like I don't know
so uh the reason for that is it's a lousy brain to thank and some people say that's a great question
if you like your lesson then please no I think he was literally asking why that word and not
another word and I think that's cultural because in the states nobody says uh we say um and
that's true that threw me off for probably at least half of um
lug radio no the hitchhiker sky to the galaxy when I was reading the book would it I kept going
what does er mean first I think that was lug radio they used to do that a lot and I was just like
why do they say it like that you know it was just it sounded weird to my ears okay uh 50 150 was
also going to say something but before he does I would like somebody's help in setting up a nice
cast relay if somebody could jump out of the channel please or meet me on air say that'd be great
and now over to fifty one fifty oh I said was if I uh my OCD will let me uh finish a podcast
without doing it on removal I'll probably have a bunch of them to drop into the FTP
yeah me too I've got three or four I'm backlogged by the same reason when you guys do do your
sort of like podcast for hack a public radio do you sort of rehearse them do you script them
because obviously Philip and I are thinking of doing one and just wanted some top tips really
it's honestly whatever you're comfortable with I don't ever script mine but I notice that if I
take some notes beforehand so that I don't miss anything they tend to come out a little bit better
and that's a nice compromise between a script and a total freeform I suppose I would always want
to sound sort of quite natural and I always sometimes think that scripting you
go ahead and you do not sound natural when you script it but some people can make it
or is it just me yeah I can't tell if this is an awkward silence or if it's just people
speaking and we're not hearing them no I think we actually all be out of sync I think I agree with
you Poke I think oh god the best everybody hey art what was that I said I think oh god the best
of everybody now I think the servers hiccuping okay but it's very good question um for myself I
thanks for the detailed tutorial episodes that I do are having done in a while but that I do
where it's your imparting technical information on somebody like a tutorial or how to or something
like that where is the bash scripting guide is example and there you need to beforehand have
everything scripted and maybe you might vary from the physical text that's written down there but
it's very much you need to do this and then you need to do that and these are the results and
there's a start middle and end however if you're going to be doing a show that's just a chat with a
buddy and generally I'll just make a list of topic points that I want to cover especially in an
interview or something like that go to the website have a look at what the you know the topics that
you want to talk about and sort of have a leading question to to okay we want to talk about this
but um you prompt them to talk about the other topic and then you prompt them to go further
and out to the next thing I'm wrong to the next thing everybody can do it differently
would be a good one to have a how you record a hpo episode from a manga-rolling host actually
especially small because I do public speaking anyway through my work and I don't rehearse I don't
script I don't have outcasts I pretty much wing it so I'm just wondering how that would you know
transcend across if ever I did any podcasting I think it'd be the same because I do some I do
like one class on beginning filmmaking at the place that I work and if it's a topic I know about
such as that then I can speak without rehearsal without anything like that the only time I like
rehearse or not I never script but if I if I outline something then it'll be on something that I
I've just figured out and I want to get the how to down and and and and recorded but I don't
feel like I could just do it off the top of my head then I then I outline but otherwise I don't
really do any kind of rehearsal or anything yeah I hope the god mr. gadgets isn't reading
a script he calls in from his car but he's like a professional and he's talking live from the hip
there's no editing he has no way to edit any visuals it's just pick up the phone I can't even
comprehend that that is so hardcore I aspire to that you're doing it now don't tell me that
the whole world is watching and you're doing it now oh good gosh there's a real lack of lazy pod
costumes that you don't think amen yes amen however there are there we do have a few here on
hr which I'd like to see them them or whoever our community members of the female I mean I mean to
be fair those women people are more common I think in other podcasting realms like if I go out
and listen to sci-fi or fantasy novel podcasts like the short story podcasts yeah you hear women
all over the place so they're there they're just not in the Linux podcasting necessarily although
yeah there are they they do exist here too but not yeah so it's not it's not everywhere it's just
here there are so many women involved in a learning community or in the open source community I mean
if we take all camps that some both me and Ken went to you know it was definitely 50 50 for women
folks there and they weren't just accompanying their husbands wow that's 50 50 which is always 50 50
there were an awful lot of ladies there they were yeah but I wouldn't say was 50 50 oh my gosh
I've only been I've only been to one Linux Fest and there were only two women there and they
were married to the dude's run it yeah that's pretty weird I was gonna say embarrassed
Karen Sandler you you had Laura Kachowski yeah true enough but they're just geeks
for sure that's in it and exactly no there's no distinction they're just hackers like
everybody else and that's actually one of the things I know if we wanted to talk about
HBR is that I've noticed different people from different cultures different countries come on to
network over the last year and I think that's something I also want to encourage so it's cool
yeah absolutely I'll have to do you a knitting podcast with HBR and you know laugh all you want
but Poke's mom who still owes me a podcast for last year and owes me one for next year's all
the last year she did the the intro so she's off but tell her that she's she owes me a podcast
for next year's all but she's a seamstress and so one of our wide and buried audience I am run my
local Linux user group and I take my knitting along I think there's a big crossover now I know
a couple of people in delinux oh that was funny wasn't it no but I know a couple of people in
delinux who who are not just casual knitters they I know one girl who actually makes her own yarn
with a spinning wheel can you beat that I have a spinning wheel upstairs in my house nice she isn't
either as far as I know I've met you I have a wish I think that's a politically incorrect I think
you're supposed to say we can I think a knitting podcast like someone how to get started in it
not only would be great for the community but it would be fantastic for me personally because
my wife just last night walked into the kitchen with I mean like a cubic meter I'm trying to be
like worldly here like a cubic meter of yarn and she said I'm gonna learn how to make this blanket
Quasa these subjects always go around to when guys are talking about them it's like my wife
of my girlfriend is that there's a lot of shameless secret no I'll tell you why because when I was
not pipe on music can you play that way back music again please that you had before
give me a few seconds to do that when I did this a web I love it and I accept it but no I
I get no problem with dating I would do it if I had a use for the product that came out at the end
like I just took I just got some paracord I don't know if anybody knows what that is but I
woke my own rifle slings so as long as what's coming out at the end I can I can wait that's
I can learn a problem no dude there wasn't there wasn't anything personal I'm trying to be funny
I'm in for now when I'm eight weeks it's it's intense to be funny and so if anyone takes any
other way I do apologize in advance I personally was the wrong word because I meant if it was a joke
at me then then I certainly welcome it and I love being the brand of jokes so absolutely
however I wanted to learn knitting because when I was in national school which is I don't know
the first school you go into they I was in the class with your primary education I don't know
what it is in the States but then they were only school or grand school yeah there were only
girls in my class right so they all got to go off every Friday afternoon and learn knitting and I
got to stay in the boys class by myself learning additional maths which of course it was really used to
me that's hard that is very that's very true of the British educational system because you know
cannot I'm sure you're probably a similar age to me and you're right you know when I was at school
it was home economics or domestic science and for the gentleman of the boys it was metalwork
least metalwork would have been useful but I mean every time I've really annoys me that's I see
people knitting and very good girls are females and I feel like I'm cheated out of that that's a
useful thing that I could have learned practically in school that I wasn't able to and at the time
I asked the teacher you know can I do this no you're like but that's stupid yeah I remember
I remember mum and dad talking about that and the one thing my mum got out of it was the fact
that she learned to type with a typewriter because girls of her age at school were supposed to be
the work you were supposed to do was be a secretary which meant that by the time she got around
to getting a computer she was already pretty fluent with a typewriter she was just scared stiff
I was going to swear the scared stiff of the actual computer part so at least at least it gave her
one good one good life skill actually and you brought up my second peeve in college I wasn't allowed
to do typing because that was a girl's thing are you serious where did you go to college
it was no no I don't think it's where I think it's when yeah that's a generational thing
uh for some reason I thought there was a doctor who think they're coming in but it's not
where it's when as I can imagine a time world going back in time to do a to do a particular exam
when if we're talking about personal gripes I can't help but but mention this one can you ask
what they call primary school or elementary school in the states and it's money kind of what
they used to call it grammar grammar anymore so changed it to primary school or elementary school
we have high schools and grammar schools but that eats more of a classroom here I think is it yeah
yeah thanks up yeah yeah we've we've got places where kids go to learn the exams and now get
bits of paper saying the past exams and then they come out how are they qualified with bits of
paper but no absolutely nothing um sorry we call that university here's my sir where's my office
yeah there's been a bunch of my protests based on that recently sorry to me to turn up political
now I think that was me who turned up the political world to apologize and so what were
discussing before I saw it really um killed the conversation and just finished talking about
quote you buying who could you buy that's funnily enough that's what I'm using at the moment
so was everyone else in here apparently except you two I feel so you're even yeah we still have
a many hours left on this thing you can redeem yourself um can I just say we I think me and
Becky and I are joined the uh conversation a bit late no I didn't think to track that yeah hey
Cornon well you and Becky joined the conversation a bit late and then there was nothing else
you know what's going to happen someone with good audio typing skills is going to sit down
and play the whole 24 hour org file and transcribe it cloudy suddenly I'm in the
UD Max with that yeah yeah probably but I'm not gonna however joking aside thanks to
Swab for bringing up something I wanted to talk about was accessibility and hacker public radio
can we can we let Cornon finish that last point first before we move on because I
close together with you trying to say I had a point I don't know you started to say something
and then your audio just completely failed what he was saying was we um know that you've been
online certainly UK times at 5pm and we didn't come on until a couple of hours so we were just
wondering is there a log of the subjects that have been discussed that we missed now that I'm
aware of but if you got something you want to bring up don't worry about if it's been talked
about before because people are hopping on and off of the chat as well as the um excuse me the
stream I'm sure well not not funny but you know I just um I don't know where to start you know
bringing up your raising topics which has already been discussed plus is there sort of like um
because you guys doing this for how long 12 hours 12 hours yeah that's a long time have you got
like a um a list of topics that you're going to be discussing no no we may have done that had we
planned it out better but since the planning was all left up to me none of that kind of thing
that done well to be fair this is the this is a bold idea by Poke and this is the first time we've
done this so so yeah I think next year that that might be a really good thing to remember
well hopefully you'll get some good material from it for some future shows and like it's I use
the feedback from this year for next year yeah that's that's the general idea you know I would love
to be a fly in the wall for whoever's editing this and how they're going to split the one
file down into oh we've got an episode here right we've got this subject here this half
or was good here I would love to be a fly in the wall for whoever's editing this we voted you to
edit it you weren't here for that I think we're just going to script FFM back to chop it up in in 20
minute intervals and just release it like that doesn't matter if we cut people off in the mid
sentence we'll just release them this 20 minute episodes after yeah that's seriously like
what a bad idea you know you know what you could do you know how some audio files have got
end of part one please don't make a set over and play part two you could have random little clips
at the end of that so the cuts into someone's sentence and then a little robotic voice says end
of part one but please insert part two and you're in your blur well here's something if anybody's
actually doing a single track recording and you know doesn't mind listening to the whole thing at
some point at you know maybe high speed they could just send me timestamps of good spots to cut it
and that would cut down on editing you know by a lot well I'm doing a single track recording but
it I'm cutting it at like an hour or an hour and a half I'm stopping it and restarting it
just to make the files more manageable once I pull them into audio editor yeah I've been doing
that with my single track recording too just stop and restarting it I can't do that with my
with my multi track recording because each one yeah if you guys could put the single track ones
up on the ftp server and we'll pivot on so that people might be able to do that yeah but it won't
matter it won't matter because the the timestamps won't we don't have a standard timestamp now
because I my track might break at one point someone else's will break out another so if I send them
a time code then that's not going to mean anything yeah it's you're not going to be able to physically
use it but you'll be able to find out there's more dusting it can it can work class 2 because I can
take the one that I have it's it's unbroken except for the the short pauses I can stitch him back
together and upload a 12 hour file and then people could you know listen through at high speed and
just say hey break it off at roughly 20 minutes or roughly 45 minutes in or something like that
that would be fine I mean that would it would help me tremendously yeah okay approximate yeah
no the funny thing is when you guys were all talking about you multiple recordings cutting it and
you know stopping it and restarting and the fun that came to my mind was the unit worship to the
great god of audacity one twenty four hour file and just when the shows right bit we finished
you find audacity crashes on you and you lose though no in in the rare occasions that I've caused
audacity to crash by doing something stupid it has recovered gracefully is not even good enough
word for it yeah I've had the same experience so the I think I've probably had like a catastrophic
audacity crash in some point in my life although I don't remember it so I could be making it up
but I imagine it would be when I was running a beta version of audacity when I shouldn't have been
I don't usually mess it around with my multimedia applications I don't I don't run the latest
and greatest for that very reason yeah and foremost the audacity I mean I've seen it crash
in quite a lot but it always recovers and it finds it opens the files just as they were I make
crash a lot but it does recover so technically you don't really lose anything I would have
what distro or you run an audacity on that it's crashing because I haven't had an audacity crash
in a couple of years until I installed mint last night and tried it on mint I've not actually
used the audacity in a while and for the Krivens it's caveat it does the recording and I'm just on
mumble essentially here but I mean I've tried it on on the crunchy buying in a boom to mint
debying with mixed success and I've just just remembered that it did crash a lot at certain times
as I said I've not only used it that much recently as well you might I don't know if you guys do a
lot of multi-tracking but if you do multi-tracking get over three or four multi-tracks and it gets
really hairy it starts crashing then a lot sure okay yeah that makes sense you've just put the fear
god in to me I just you know I just told you I got 16 tracks at least roll I spray to the great
god audacity here's more shuffle and I'm not not I'm going to talk my drink up I'll be back in a minute
you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does our
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself
if you ever considered recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy it really is
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binrev.com all binrev projects are proud
and sponsored by lunar pages from shared hosting to custom private clouds go to lunarpages.com
for all your hosting needs unless otherwise stated today's show is released under a creative
comments attribution share alike free does own license
