Episode: 956
Title: HPR0956: HPR Community News for Feb 2012
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0956/hpr0956.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 05:35:49

---

Music
Hello and welcome to Hacker Public Radio.
This is our monthly review show, so we've got some news, some updates, and some of the
behind the stuff info for you if you're not on the mailing list.
I'm Pokey, but also here is Ken, hey Ken.
How's it going, Unreal?
And 5150s with us too.
Howdy folks.
Now, we've got Alden and Zen in the, he's listening in, and that's cool if anybody wants
to pop in and listen to these while we record them, if people are a fan of live podcasts,
that seems to be something that mumble can handle, so keep an eye out for that on the front
page of HDR each month.
Ken, where would you like to start?
Well, we're traditionally introduced in New Holes, I guess.
We got Digital Maniac from Show 208, thanks, a big thanks to Digital Maniac for that.
David Whitman, who is really ramping up things behind the scenes, it's hard to believe he's
only done one show, he's done so much behind the scenes so far.
Neo Dragon is new to HDR though, people will recognize him from Linux Basics, he's on
a lot of those shows and he contributes quite well over there as well.
And the show, we have a new series now that's just started on HBR.
Our first show was posted last Friday for that series, it is zombie panic and apparently
it's being credited to the zombie master, so zombie masters and new hosts as well.
So thanks to all of our new hosts for the month of March.
Yeah, that's actually was one I didn't know how to credit that, so I decided to create
a generic name for the host, hopefully going forward we'll be able to have a little bit
more granularity to take that into account, that is something that's on the wish list
for the HPR scheduling system, we'll be talking more about that later on as well.
Nice 50 and 50's correct in me, what did I say?
Zombie panic.
Oh, okay, and zombie circus is the name of the show, I apologize, zombie circus.
Yeah, I think you're sort of combining it with the loosely affiliated show.
Everything's loose about those shows, very true.
So I guess we should go into the show review before we get too far along and we had the
monthly show review, I want to thank you guys for doing an excellent job last month and
then we had episode 937 by Roodlebox, how I started with Linux, just for me to be not
as first show, but it was interesting show in itself.
Yeah, I like Roodlebox, he's fun to listen to.
Right, these are coming one of our more prolific contributors, so I'd like to be graduating
on that.
And the next day we had a 5150 with a cloning Wi-Fi profile and installing Skype 64, sorry
164, but Fedora, I personally know that guy, it's true, I actually found this one quite
interesting.
The most interesting part was the cloning the Wi-Fi protocols thing and I'm just mentally
as I was listening to it was going must put that in today, save that for later, save that
for later soldier in my brain.
Yeah, I don't know why they give that 5150 guy a mic, but it's taken me a month, but
I finally speak up, speak up.
Okay, I finally submitted the client some updated show notes, so that the rich likes to email
that I submitted it, it dropped some of the details out of the command.
So that's one of those shows where you probably, if you're going to do it yourself, you would
want to refer back to the show notes rather than trying to type as fast as I talk, so
those should be corrected, he's just a bold face in the italics that I used in translate.
You say you don't know why they give that guy a mic, but you'll be happy to know they
didn't give him one today.
I think he had to make it himself out of a box of matches and some pencil leads.
Is it that bad now?
I thought we had it worked out.
No, it's okay.
As long as you're speaking up, it's good.
Yeah, that's still, that is the one downside to podcasts as you can't just cut and paste
what you need out of them as easily as you can with text.
Well, there are so many things that, especially a month later, you know you heard it somewhere
in a podcast, but by the time you need it, you can get which one it was.
I have that quite a lot.
And that actually is why I'm making a concerted effort to ask people to put show notes together
because it's at least then searchable, whereas a lot of our audio is not searchable.
So if you've got good show notes, at least Google and the rest of them will pick it up and
you'll have some chance of getting back to the show, finding the show.
Yeah, absolutely.
That's a really good point.
We should probably move on.
It looks like show 939 was Sunday morning Linux review is there episode 21.
It's probably the sixth or seventh one they've done for us.
And they are quickly becoming one of the most popular shows on HPR.
People really seem to like that one.
And if you give it a listen, you'll quickly see why people like that one.
It's a very, very good show.
Show 940 was another one of our favorite hosts, Deep Geek with Talk Geek to the News.
And this is a cut down version of his normal show, which is just the tech news.
So if you want more Deep Geek, there is more Deep Geek for you on his own podcast.
But I personally really appreciate what he does for HPR.
He gets news items that I wouldn't begin to even know where to find what I'll never hear about.
So that's that's great stuff.
Show 941 was digital maniac as we already stated that was his first show.
And this was a what is in my bag on portable apps.
And that was really cool.
It was a fun one to listen to.
I must say I really enjoy that one as well.
Well, somebody in the tech support business.
Yeah, that was one of my favorites and most useful in the month.
Look forward and to checking out that portable apps website.
So I can add that stuff to my bag as well.
Yeah, that portable app seems to like be all anyone can talk about maybe two or three years ago.
And then nobody I hadn't heard it mentioned since.
And it sounds like that's because guys like digital maniac have got it sorted out, you know, exactly what to use it for.
It sounds like a very specific and useful tool.
Yeah, exactly.
I think a lot of basically every Windows admin knows about it.
I personally like their tools because they're self contained.
So if you're on a Windows server, for instance, you can run them without interfering with the registry or whatever on a server.
You go in, you do whatever it is that you need to do.
And then you just delete the folder and all trace of that is gone.
So you're not polluting the systems.
The BSD guys must love it because it's like their port systems.
That's for you, Unix Clubhouse.
There's your BSD mentioned.
Okay, and then the following day we had send Tyal Linux small business server.
I had no idea about this.
And I had a look at the video associated with it.
And it looks like an amazing little little business that somebody put together.
I forget what the old name was.
That's one of those that they recently changed the name on the project.
So that may be why you haven't seen it before.
But there's a few of those server in a box sort of packages out there could be real handy.
As a little preview, I when I should have been doing other things,
I was banging around on that trying to get a VM appliance in NPL to run on my server earlier this week.
Guys, I think I've got the VM where installed.
But that and I think zone minder I was playing with,
neither one of them are.
If you look at the VMware documentation, it's pretty much say,
well, I'll get an appliance and one, one line and Bob's junk will be up and running.
And neither one that I tried that met nice, neat little package.
It was going to have to be hacked on a bit to make it work.
But what for some time in the future, once I get worked out,
maybe be an episode on VMware and appliances in general seems like an excellent idea.
That was called, I just had a quick Google here.
Well, we're actually quick took to go.
Doesn't roll off the tunnel as easy, but I've switched to eBox before apparently.
Show 943 was a hookah.
Again, I think it might have been his second or third show,
but it's certainly the second in this series of freedom is not free.
And this one was on bugs and bug reporting.
Bugs are our great topic.
New people, the Linux always, you know,
have questions about how to report bugs, but, but people have been around for a while,
even, you know, can sometimes forget, you know, just to,
just to, um, to report bugs.
So that was, that was a good one too.
It was a really good how to somewhere about,
I'll try and put it in the show notes for this about how to put in bugs.
And I must say it's gotten so much easier with all the distributions having,
you know, it helped file a bug on this.
I've file must have followed three or four bugs in the last few months.
Well, added two bugs that already existed.
Cool.
One of you guys better do this next one because I get too gushy whenever Dan's involved.
Yeah, just one second.
And it was TR.
And I must say this is a really lovely these episodes.
And I found myself in work looking for a,
an episode on how I was actually trying to do something with TR to do some translating.
And I was beating my head against the wall just like you were saying 5150.
Trying to remember what podcast was that now?
What podcast?
What did it hurt?
It was, I can remember it was Dan.
I wonder what could it have been?
And I was searching and searching and searching and then eventually,
well, the first hit was Hacker Public Radio.
Duh.
Well, yeah, excellent.
Excellent.
The videos are excellent.
There's, you know, he, I think he can get enough listening to the show,
but he's also got excellent show notes.
And then the, the video is out of on top of that.
It's just really taken a topic and covering it just perfectly and clearly.
Well, it's not quite as bad as I,
a couple times I've seen Club 2 in the chat saying that he's done a search on something
and found out that he did a show on it for bad apples.
Classic.
Classic.
Okay, the previous day was a talk to talk geek to me as well.
And, uh,
excellent, excellent show again.
And then the following day before we had a HPR interview
by David Whitman with Carol Simons and John Balm,
band for, sorry about that.
And they were talking about the Linux Fest Northwest,
which was going, which is coming up on April the 28th and 29th in Bellingham,
Washington.
So there's in the show notes that is a complete list of,
of topics, did a great interview, covered it really nicely.
And again, I really wish airfare to the US was a lot cheaper than it was.
Then it is.
Speaking of cheap, the Linux Fest Northwest is so cheap, it's free.
So if you're anywhere near there and, you know, don't go to Linux Fest because you're worried about the cash,
that's a free fest.
You can get in there, admission is free.
If you don't like going to free fest, if you'd like to pay, they do have a supporter pack that you can sign up for.
I think their standard is 60 US dollars and you can get as an individual supporter.
So make sure if you're anywhere near Bellingham, Washington, USA,
in the April 28th and 29th, get on up there and visit them.
Check out the HPR table, grab a sticker, grab a business card, grab up in,
and help support HPR and help support Linux at these Linux Fests and meet some cool people.
I was fascinated.
Apparently this is the 13th year for Linux Fest Northwest,
let's put it away before a lot of the fest that we think of when we think of going to Linux Fest.
I don't believe I'd heard of it before last year.
And it seems like they've just got an incredible science museum facility up there.
A lot of things to see besides the hallway track and the speaker track and everything else that you normally associate with.
I didn't know they had gone on so long until you just said it.
That explains how they age some of those lickers for so long.
Those guys that are using Linux to brew beer and make liquor up there.
Which did I hear they had samples and we could probably talk about what's going on up there that we're missing out on.
No, you're making it worse.
Anyway, listen, if anybody skipped that show because they weren't going to Linux Fest Northwest,
go back and listen to that show because it was interesting in and of itself.
It's amazing how much these guys are pulling together for an event.
I must say, even though I know I'm not going to the shows,
I still find these ones very interesting hearing what's happening in the community.
Well, maybe I'll be able to talk about the Linux Fest a little bit later on in this podcast.
That would be fantastic.
Yes, since I just got back from that.
After that, the next one.
I'm stealing this one from the Ken Show 947 was posted by NeoDragon.
It was a presentation by Jared Smith at the Columbia area, Columbia area, Linux user group.
I must say Jared Smith was the Fedora project leader.
I must say I'm not a Fedora user, but he almost had me convinced to give it a try.
I must admit, this got to be one of the nicest guys on the planet.
It was just so cool to listen to.
I know there's been a lot of speculation that he left the Fedora project
because of some sort of controversy or something that may have happened,
but he listened into that guy.
I don't believe any of that could possibly be true.
I had exactly the same feeling as well.
The following day, we had exchanging data podcasts too.
This is DMFrise.
I love this.
I'm referring to this, and I'm using this.
But then that's probably because I enjoy XML, transferring XML with Jason.
I'm just open when he finishes with the website
and the restaurant menu there that I can get some take-out.
If he does food, any good, as he does web program, it's going to be good.
Right.
Listing to those podcasts,
make me wish my web food was far enough along
where I could actually join in and call what he was saying.
I look forward to getting to that point someday.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
I only catch snippets of it that make sense.
And when they do, it's pretty cool.
It's almost like listening to something in a different language
and more and more of the words make sense as the more you listen.
It was pretty cool.
The following day was the CC Hit 2011 Overview,
which I put into the feed because it's a very good sample
of the type of shows that you can expect on CC Hit.
I stole the show notes from Dave and Caroline over at the Bugcast
who has not only all the show notes in, but they've got links.
But when you click on it, you can bolt on the show.
So that is also a very good podcast if you haven't heard it yet.
I'm going to be putting one of them on the syndicated Thursday shows.
And because it was CC by SA and C,
we didn't have the regular intro and outro.
So if that show just happened to appear in your queue, you know why.
CC Hit is a great project.
I'm a big fan and a big, very vocal about CC Hit
because I think it's a good thing and it is a good way
that we could, if we had enough people listening to the daily feed
and actually voting on the music that they like,
I think it really is a legitimate, maybe not exact replica,
but at least a legitimate analogy of the music top 40
that all the civilians have to listen to.
I think what we've got here is pretty good once it's going to be pretty good.
Once people start participating, it's good now,
certainly it will be better when it hits the market.
I'll be into it.
Glad you put that in the feed because that may be one of my,
may be my favorite episode of the month.
From that first song, it started making questions.
Why, however infrequently, I'm still paying for music
and what I've had a little trouble finding anything that I like
that's pretty common for that reason.
I really haven't participated in CC Hit,
but that's certainly after listening that I'm going to.
It's definitely a fantastic source
and I think I told John I'm around about 40 to 50% of the stuff I listen to.
And if I listen, you know, like, actually, and keep.
If I listen to that episode, there are songs in there that,
you know, while they're good songs, they're just not my taste.
And I really don't like them.
And then equally the ones that I do like, I really do like.
So it's, you know, it's a very binary feeling about the songs in there.
But we better move on.
One thing I did want to say is,
if you want 50, if you feel bad about not paying for music,
a lot of these shows on CC Hit,
link back to Bandcamp where you can donate to these guys.
Right. That's a very good point.
Cool.
And regardless of that, even if,
if you donate $1 to them, they'll get a larger percentage there
than they will if they're a signed record label.
So the previous day was talked to communities.
And then we had Riddlebox again with the Roku XD review.
Very interesting little device.
And we don't have it over here.
I wonder, do any of you guys have it?
It seems really tiny.
I don't have one because I don't watch television.
Well, I would love to have one,
but I don't have the bandwidth and the idea of video content in the Internet.
I wish I could.
I do have an RPI comment supposedly.
So once I get that in place,
that will probably satisfy that sort of need for me.
This might be a dumb question,
but does the Roku need bandwidth?
Can it not just cache the shows that you're looking for?
And like overnight or something?
No, it's live streaming.
I think you could put in a USB hard drive,
but you'd be jumping through some more boxes.
I haven't got it done,
but because I've been downloading other things,
I really want to look into this new Google Play.
I hate to patronize proprietary,
but they do have the option,
unlike most of the other streaming services,
to download an entire movie ahead of time.
So with my little bandwidth,
the ticking clock on it might run out before I get the movie downloaded,
but I want to do that report back to actually works.
Okay.
And they keep it on the home entertainment theme.
The next day we had how I got the cable cord part two,
looking at the play on server software,
which used in addition to his existing setup
to trying to get more of his media through the internet stream
and over the top, as we say in the industry.
Yeah, that was cool.
So here I was completely unaware that play on did me.
I thought they were just a gaming company.
Again, I'm a little bit out of this
because none of this stuff is available
over the side of the pond.
Yeah, I'm out of it because play on.
I don't know if it's the same play on or not.
If it is, like I said, I wasn't aware that they did content too.
And if it's not, I'm surprised that there's two companies in the tech sector
with the same name.
But I'm also out of the school two chems with all these boxes
and media stuff that people are talking about.
You've got to plug them into a television.
And I haven't even got a television.
I haven't bothered getting one in years.
Okay.
You can rock and bob said the play on.
So you're talking about recording windows.
So I think it surprised me that the same people be games on playing on one.
It's in another in another video.
You require windows.
This was definitely a windows device.
Okay.
There's anything wrong with that.
Not still.
Okay.
And to remind the tech PR listeners that yes,
we're open to all operating systems
and we're very diverse over here.
So if it's of interest to hackers, send it on in.
Yeah, don't mind the dirty moves.
The following day was again,
down with episode three of the Koch command.
And again, this is this one.
Actually, I was fairly, you know, about 50% there on this one.
As opposed to the other ones where I'm about 10% already know.
Yeah, I'm not even going to start talking about the end because I'm never stopped.
He's just, I love listening to his show.
So he's just so good at organizing what he's going to say
and making sure he's got what appears to me, at least anyway,
to be complete knowledge of the subject when it's just he's just really good at it.
And, you know, this all this when he's got a new baby born in the house
keeping him awake in the middle of the night.
Yeah.
And young girls, teenage girls running around.
Probably stressing about just as much.
Great kind of thing.
Yeah, not in the families.
Well, I've got stuff going on.
It's good stuff for him.
I probably don't want to steal something on that.
So yeah, keep him coming.
Okay.
And then the following day we had Robin gattling with the edited full circle podcast for HPR.
And I'm really glad to see that Robin has given us a lot more of those shows
because when I got to the end of the last batch, I was getting a bit sad and depressed.
We're not going to have any more.
But this was actually a very good open mic discussion about Chromebook and the Chromebook OS.
And the two guys, Ed and Dave basically sat there both side, both knowledgeable,
both understanding the entire topic.
And it was memory wish like I wish politics was discussed like this or, you know,
other areas of interest to me clear and concise good arguments.
Yeah, and people who could disagree on a subject without hating each other.
That would be so nice to see in the real world.
Absolutely.
Yes.
And I thought that one was a lot of fun just to listen to.
I was listening to that one while I was outside doing some workout doors.
And it was just, you know, it made some tea as task or just a little bit more fun to do.
And I still haven't heard any confirmation or denial or any kind of debate whatsoever.
I still got my money on Robin Catling as being the wing commander.
You know what?
I think you're right.
I heard him the other day and it was just the, of course he's the wing flender.
Yeah, that's the way it was for me when it hit me just kind of click like,
oh, yeah, I know that guy.
He's on HPR.
And yeah, and after that yesterday's show, show 955,
not safe for work or family listening,
unless your family is all well over the age of 18.
In fact, go with 21 just to be safe.
Or it's culturally permissible in your country to allow children to listen to that type of show.
Oh boy.
Yeah, zombie circus was a heck of a lot of fun.
And boy, if I could have been on a podcast panel,
that's the one I would have liked to have been on.
It was, it was great.
And a real good laugh.
And I really hope those guys do it on a more regular basis.
We should put in a, maybe a once a month slot for them if they were up for that.
I are even more often.
Yeah, I was also working on it.
Sorry, did you want 50?
The same guys.
I think there's a problem.
They have no as well.
But we need to look out for that.
So zombie circus is on the off days of taking it off weeks of KPO.
And I'm not sure how they work.
They have no in there.
But if there should be some of those going around to you.
Now, I jumped.
He was a month ago.
I listened to this because I jumped down and I'm not supposed to be posted on his site in the first place.
Okay, cool.
Now I get to correct you because I think it's dev random.
Is it is a dev random or dev null?
The name of the other show?
You're absolutely right, a dev random.
Are they releasing, they're releasing that on their own site, aren't they?
I don't think it anywhere yet.
I know.
I understand they've done one.
I thought one of the shows was supposed to be 4HPR.
And then that, I don't know, maybe I understood it wrong, but I thought they were doing one for, for HPR exclusively.
And we're going to wait till we hit the HPR feed before they posted on their own.
But I could be totally wrong about that.
Okay, well, if that's the case, then somebody needs to get in touch with me and make sure that we reserve some sort of regular slot or at least put in a slot so that they're not waiting a month for their show to come out.
What didn't mean them?
Sorry, can I didn't mean to imply that the dev random was intended for HPR.
It's just I want to give them a plug.
No, no, I was saying that 5150.
I thought I had heard them say one of those guys.
I thought I had heard one of those guys say that that was their intention.
But like I said, I could be totally wrong about that.
Okay, well, not to worry.
Anyone listening who's involved in either of the shows, HPR is available.
So email admin at hackbookreadu.org.
Otherwise, yeah, if you make a regular slot then you don't have to be waiting all that time.
So we can just start saving out spaces in the queue right now.
Shall we move on?
Yeah, let's do.
Okay, well, I got an email from a guy, toughen.com saying if we would like to advertise in HPR, anyone got any comments?
I was even sure if this was real or spam, we get so much of that stuff.
Yeah, it comes through the admin mailing list.
I didn't know if it was for real or not.
Yeah, it seems pretty real, but I don't know.
I think it's up to Stank, really, whatever he wants to do.
He's going funding him a bit, you know, the bin rev.
He's funding all the bin rev projects.
And so I don't know.
I don't particularly think so myself.
Yeah, I figured since I don't have, you know, any, any...
I mean, I don't contribute financially to the HPR.
I figured I didn't have a vote in this, so I was just, you know, whatever that's up to him.
Okay, yeah.
I've been kind of on that.
Yeah, fair enough.
So the HPR site was down.
For a few hours, excuse me on the second of March, you probably didn't even notice this.
Josh was on the ball.
The entire data center went down and the backup generation and everything was announced.
He was on top of that and we didn't even miss a show posting.
So I don't think there are any significant impact on anything.
No, by the time I got the email, the site was backed up, so I couldn't even confirm that it was down.
So then we had David Whitman, who's been doing a lot of stuff.
Actually, he's gone doing the Linux Fast North West.
And he put together some badges.
Did you get any of those?
No, but I've seen the pictures of them and they are very cool.
And by badges, people in America will know them as pins or buttons.
They're the actual buttons that you stick on your jacket.
If you think back to 1989 and denim jackets, you'll remember them.
But, you know, it's like a little circular badge with a safety pin on the back.
You know, like a plastic coating over it.
That's the ones, yeah.
And he's going to be doing a table at the North, the Linux Fast North West.
Then, on some Saturn use, there was just come through the feeds there that the Helios project can has.
He's gone through some difficult times there.
So if you've got him and just head on over to the Helios project, he's doing a lot for
giving out PCs with Linux on them to disadvantaged kids.
And he's fighting a good fight over there.
So, both your moral support and probably financial support probably wouldn't go too far.
So the Helios project.
We're all thinking of him and his family right now.
Yeah, absolutely.
Not much to add to that.
Okay.
Richard R.F. Quirin.
As, you know, I think you talked about the last month about the picture, the images.
What did you think of them?
Well, yeah, it's definitely worth talking about again.
I thought every single one of them was gold.
My only problem was, you know, trying to pick a favorite.
I had to, sorry, go on.
As you'd say, picking one is going to be the problem.
Well, actually, I have no intention of picking one.
I think they all are in, as I said, I emailed back to them.
And, you know, the atomic sample makes a great logo.
You know, I love the idea of the circle, you know, around HPR being the community around it, you know.
The HPR 0-2 samples are great wallpapers.
And I like the idea like you got the logo and then you got a slogan.
I know we've had a slogan competition before and we could continue to do that.
So, you know, taking those wallpapers and personalizing with your own HPR slogan, you know.
And life's like a box of chocolate, you know.
Then I was...
Then the atomic surround ideal for a big t-shirt and perfect for banners.
And, you know, I believe you were also using that at the...
At Northeast Linux Fest.
Yeah, yeah, I just picked the one that fit best on an 8.5 by 11 sheet.
And I printed it onto one of those iron transfers, the same ones that I used on the t-shirts.
And I put it on the banner and it really...
It did a lot for the banner, it really dressed it up a lot.
How did that fiscal, shall we talk about that now?
You can talk about that one, if you like.
That best was an incredibly fun time.
It was the difference between last year and this year.
It was amazing.
It was fun last year.
It was informative.
It was a great time last year.
And it just got amped up this year.
It was...
Let me see.
Last year there was two tables out in the...
Like the presentation area.
It was one for KDE and one for...
It's a really great podcast.
I can't remember the name of it right now.
Those were the two tables last year.
And this year, same two tables were back.
But we were joined by probably six other tables.
We had...
Fedora was represented.
OpenSUSA was represented.
Now I've started enlisting them.
And I'm not forget we all were...
Let's see.
There was some corporate sponsors that really helped the best out with money.
So they were really...
It was glad to see those folks there.
There was a BSD table.
There was SkySQL.
It was the name of the company doing the MariaDB project.
And...
Boy, I know.
I'm like a limit of recollection here.
So yeah, there was probably four times as many tables as there were last year.
And there were three times the number of attendees at the conference as there were last year.
So it really...
Things are ramping up for that.
It was really good.
The after party was fantastic.
The setup was better than it was last year.
As far as the after party, it wasn't ideal.
But that's something being worked on behind the scenes too.
And it was just so much fun.
I didn't actually even get to see any of the talks because I was getting interviews all day long.
And the sad part about my interviews is that my recorder decided to act up that day and do something that's never done before.
And it really massacred my interviews.
And it's taken me a long time to edit them because I'm having to really tweak a lot.
And they still sound like crap, even after I'm editing them.
But they're completely un-listenable before I do that.
So that was my one...
Well, no, there was two.
There were two things, two hard breaks I had that day.
One was my record.
It was turning out like crap.
And the other is that at the after party, or at some point, what I had meant to do was get as many people as I could in a group to say,
congratulations, HPR, on a thousand episodes for 5150s.
What advice, what have been nice?
Yeah, I appreciate that.
You thought it was.
I failed, I completely forgot to do it.
We got so wrapped up in, you know, talking to people that talk to each other,
and people I'd never met before, that when it came time to do it,
I'd just missed the opportunity, you know, and I'm really, you know,
I really feel horrible for missing that.
So if anybody else at another Linux Fest or another Gathering has the opportunity,
that would be really great.
Well, I guess we'll have a table with North West.
So that might be something that those guys are listening, cast along the VAM Grab a few people.
So they don't know what ACA Public Radio is, they're explaining it to them,
and get them to record their tilts like congratulations and opening the intro.
But don't feel bad, Pokey, because I've been procrastinating all month trying to get some other stuff done,
and I've made absolutely no progress on my project.
We'll get to that, because I'm sure you've got some more North stuff to tell us.
Yeah, not really.
I mean, that was pretty much it.
I at least this year, I at least remember to ask people to sign our banner.
So we've got some more autographs on there from people who have contributed to HPR,
and people I interviewed, I got to sign it.
So at least I remember to do that.
That was pretty great.
We had more guys this year,
when the HPR table only had last year, where people watch in the table all day,
not watching the table, but they're to talk to people about HPR,
which freed me up to get some interviews,
more than I was able to get last year.
And like I said, I am working on them.
When you hear them, you'll understand why I'm apologizing for the sound quality.
But everybody just had such a great time.
We got some pictures.
I didn't take a lot of pictures,
but we got a couple.
They were posted, Ken posted them for us,
to the Henry Patrick Riley G plus page,
if people are interested in that.
And the NELF guys even stuck the picture up on their front page
at Mortice Linux Fest.org.
That was pretty cool.
We put our picture right up at the top.
So thanks to them for that.
Yeah, it's going to be so much under there.
I was going to say that apparently the HPR table was the star of the show,
because if you go to Mortice Linux Fest page,
the first thing you see is you poke the,
and the aforementioned Dan Fry,
and N.Y. Bill with out his monkey suit,
one of the pictures like that,
but that will make sense to the people on the...
And sadly, without any of his guns.
Right.
But that will make sense to the guys on the mix outlaws for him.
And Bro, what do you want to get him?
Yeah, Bro was there,
and if you know him from G plus or anything,
he was there without his pie in the face,
which was also kind of sad.
I'm really sorry I missed it, but there you go.
Yeah, Bro, actually, he flew in from out of state,
and he came out...
He came in state with me on Friday night.
I picked him up from the airport,
and we went to the shooting range on Friday, right from the airport,
and we had a blast over there.
You'll excuse the pun that wasn't intentional.
But he was worried a little bit, not terribly,
but he was a little worried all weekend long
that there might be some gunpowder left on his jacket
or something for when he went through the...
The groping at the airport,
but he made it through OK,
and he made it home safely and not...
As far as I know, everyone made it home safely,
and I'm always pleased to hear all that.
I'm sorry, just...
You mentioned the groping there at the airport.
I find that quite funny,
but it's definitely a cultural thing,
as you Americans seem to have this pat down thing at the airport,
because we have had that since I think the airport started.
You know, you walk through the metal detector
and get the pat down thing,
so it's part and parcel of flight for years here.
Let me tell you something,
just in defense of the U-Americans thing,
this is the American government doing this nonsense.
This is not us.
We the people do not like any of this,
and we're being taken down a road
that nobody wants to go down,
and it's going to end real ugly.
The way that he's going down now...
Oops, I'll get you up there.
The way that it's going now
is the way that other oppressive governments
have come into power in the past,
and it's getting worse and worse,
and none of us like it,
but that's me on my political soapbox.
I will step back down off of that.
No, I wasn't making a political point.
It was making a point that's been
pated down as an airport,
has been come and practice for years,
and well before the 9-11 thing,
I remember the first time I went to the States of a shocked
that you could just walk up to an airport gate
and just buy a ticket and walk onto the plane.
It was shocking to me at the time,
because we had our own element of flights
from our landing zone,
working exactly during the 1980s,
working exactly...
You know, wasn't that easy to get on the mother, you know?
Yeah, but in the thing is,
if it were just a pat down,
like you're saying,
I could understand it,
it'd be one thing,
but they've got these
millimeter wave scanners
that are radiating people,
and even the people working for the TSA
aren't allowed to wear dose symmetry
to investigate how much radiation they're getting.
The machines don't work.
People aren't properly trained.
Nobody is doing this.
It's not consistent from airport to airport.
It's all completely nonsense.
You have to opt out of the radiation
even to get the groping, you know?
So it's just Zabia.
But yeah.
I recommend anybody who's interested
in this topic to listen to Bruce Schneier's
Schneier Unsecurity go over and subscribe to his stuff.
He has some very nice breakdowns
on what he calls security theater.
But anyway.
Are you sad?
No, he has a blog,
and he did a TED talk as well,
which is very interesting.
But I feel like I'm not allowed,
I wouldn't possibly comment on,
you know, what you do in the US
as I'm not a US,
and I'm just making the point to that.
Even before 9-11,
there was, I think,
who was some famous singer
got patted down in Heathrow,
and there was a big CNN discussion
about how, you know,
how their privacy was violated.
So just fun, just kind of interesting.
Yeah, definitely second Bruce Schneier.
I didn't realize he had done a TED talk
but he often talked about security theater,
which is kind of what
both he was getting at,
is that it is security theater.
I realize a lot of other countries,
like the mentioned island,
may do the patdowns,
and, you know, security is a funny thing.
You can think you're doing it right,
and you're not.
You're just kind of making yourself feel better.
But one thing I've heard mentioned
is that countries like Israel
don't do all that sort of stuff,
and they're definitely one of the more
security-minded countries.
I'll put that way.
Well, I think at the end point
was kind of 10 years ago,
we got this wake-up call,
and welcome to how things are
and the rest of the world,
but it was,
we're used to being very isolated
and insulated over here,
and, you know,
we just sort of got our dream state
a few years ago.
I'm not going any further down this rabbit hole.
Super.
Sorry for bringing that up.
Boss, yes.
Where are we?
Are you finished with the northeast and the next fest?
Yeah, I think that's it.
Just the talks.
However, what I,
one thing I should say,
the talks for the northeast and the next fest
were all recorded.
They were all posted immediately
to the frostcasts,
and so if you need them right away,
they're over there.
But Jonathan,
native of frostcasts,
and the northeast and the next fest,
he had asked me if I could also
basically grab them from his website,
strip the frostcast music off,
put the HPR music on,
and post them to HPR.
So we've got those done,
those are ready to go.
They're in our syndicated view,
and we're bumping one of them ahead
to next Thursday,
because while it is still syndicated,
it is also still of timely consequence
with what is going to happen here.
We've got an issue
with the ORCA project.
Apparently,
they are in pretty desperate need of coders
and of some help with that project.
So, you know,
Ken and I discussed this,
and we decided that it was of timely consequence,
so we're going to just bump that one ahead
in our Thursday feed.
Very good.
And in relation to,
we put a call out there some time ago
for people to assist
with the events,
and Jason Bowles
from contact with me via Google Plus
and has offered to be our event coordinator for that.
Right on, Jason.
If I could hold push the talk
and clap at the same time,
you could get a round of applause from me.
Absolutely, absolutely.
I don't know,
particularly what I had in mind,
I was going to ask for this.
I don't know particularly what I had in mind for this,
but I think, you know,
keep in some sort of text file
somewhere of, you know,
upcoming events
and pop it up on the FTP server perhaps,
and see in how we're covered
are people going to be going
to the events HPR people?
Will there be a booth?
Will there be,
or will there be somebody doing interviews
or both?
So, that sort of thing I think is of interest.
Yeah, I mean,
and it's totally fair.
I think part of the reason why
we have even asked for an events coordinator
put the call out,
because that was another thing we discussed before
we recorded that last show,
but the reason why we put that call out
is because we weren't quite sure what to do with events.
And, you know,
it was obvious that we weren't handling them
as well as could be.
So, you know,
someone, basically,
we just needed someone to step into that role
and think about it,
because we weren't really coming up with much.
Yeah, as can be seen by our events
second this week, this month.
Yeah, can you have an email set up
for the events coordinator
or something like events
at hackitublicradio.org?
That is a fantastic idea.
And, basically,
I will do whatever it is that the events coordinator wants me to do.
We have the resources of HPR available here,
but that seems like the first logical step, actually.
Because I saw someone
who was planning in Hashog Cast Planet
earlier this week,
that actually they had a problem
with our 3040 show queue
that they couldn't get in the announce
that they haven't aired.
I suggest that they,
if they had an announcement tonight,
they would put an ad in it,
hackitublicradio.org,
and we could get it in at least
in this monthly review show.
Now, if it's important enough,
we can bump the show.
That's not a problem.
That's covered by rule number one.
And worst case scenario is,
if somebody has something really important
that needs to go out on a particular day
and somebody has reserved that day,
it's no bother at all for me
to record whatever it is
and put it at the beginning of the show
to go out on that day.
I don't think anyone would mind that at all.
Yeah, yeah.
No, I'm sorry.
I didn't mean that they wanted a show bump
that they were wanting something
like a promo added to the show.
Yeah, and that's what Ken was saying.
If you want to record a promo
or if you want to record a quick little,
you know, news blip or something
for an important event,
we can just tack it on
to the beginning of the show
that's going to air that day anyway.
We don't have to bump a whole show
if it's only a 30-second thing
or a short thing
that you just need to add it on there real quick.
Makes sense?
That's work.
Yeah, because we've done it before.
I believe we've done it several times.
Yeah, we can do it.
It's probably a bit more work.
And it also,
I would prefer if we were doing a particular show
about it and we have enough time.
Obviously, if people have enough time,
there's an event coming up,
then we can schedule it nicely into the queue.
But if it's something that has come up out of the blue,
then yeah, we can do it.
We can either bump a show up
or we can edit somebody's show
and add it to the front.
I presume people wouldn't don't mind that sort of thing.
No, right.
And if you don't want to do a whole show about it yourself,
but you want to get the event publicized,
give the events people a call
and ask them if you can interview them.
And then you just basically let them talk
and ask them a couple of questions.
It's a real easy way to get something like that done.
If you wanted to take the time of a whole show,
real similar to what was done for the Northwest,
Linux Fest Northwest.
Absolutely cool.
Speaking of upcoming events,
we have,
I'll camp is on the 18th to the 19th of August
and it turns out I won't be able to go.
Oh, that's really stinks.
That's sad to hear.
Yeah, you should get that.
I have a couple of events on my notes here,
Ken, that come up before that.
By right?
Okay, so April 13th,
14th and 15th is the Indiana Linux Fest.
Please see IndianaLinuxFest.org
for information on that.
On April 28th and 29th is the Linux Fest Northwest.
And that is Linux Fest Northwest.org.
And please see David Whitman on our message boards
or on Google Plus.
If you want to help out with an HDR table there.
And I think we're still looking for someone to do an HDR table
with Indiana Linux Fest.
And then on September 28th, 29th and 30th
is the Ohio Linux Fest.
Ohio Linux.org.
And they have a call for talks out right now.
I don't think they've selected any of their talks yet.
So if you want to do a talk at that,
best or you want to do a table,
that's coming up then.
And when did you say all the camp was?
The 18th and 19th of August in Liverpool,
United Kingdom.
And I caught the latest Linux outlaws yesterday.
I listened to it yesterday.
And apparently by that time it may no longer be Fest.
They're considering if they should,
I guess that name has been confusing people
and they're considering whether they should pick a new name.
Well, you caught the last but one Linux outlaws then,
because the very latest one that just came out
so they are sticking with the name.
They had considered it.
What they had said was if they were going to change it,
now was the time to change it so they needed to do some
considering real quick.
And apparently they did consider,
they did think about it,
and they did decide to stick with the name.
Well, I'm glad to hear that,
because I think that's been established
for the past three years.
That way people know going forward
and what it is everybody's talking about.
Yeah, I like the name too,
or it's like the name too.
That's one best that I wish I could get to if I were going to travel
internationally.
I'd love to get there.
It's right up there on the list.
Yeah, I was thinking I could save up and go to a fest
in the U.S. next year, but then I did a quick duck-duck-go.
That doesn't sound right.
Google search is better, quick.
Well, duck-go uses Google, so it's fine.
Now they use Bing.
Oh, and the one event they know of that
I don't know when it is because it's not on my list here.
Southeast Linux Fest is coming up.
So go ahead and do a quick search.
For Southeast Linux Fest and find it when that is.
That's going to be in.
June 8th and Charlotte North Carolina.
That's why I tripped over.
Oh, damn, because I will bring that up
in another browser window.
Right on.
Good move.
Excellent.
And speaking of the Southeast Linux Fest,
Dave Yates has resurfaced
and is in fine, fine health,
but will be taking a little bit of a backseat.
But I think a lot of people were a bit concerned about him.
And from what I understand from his Google Plus post
that he's okay and just needed some time away.
Yeah, he's been in North Carolina quite a bit.
He's just as good as always.
Oh, man, I'm glad to hear that.
I had much of a chance to be near computer
during normal business hours in the last couple of weeks.
So I missed that.
I'm glad to hear it.
Thank you.
Okay.
And actually speaking of apologies.
I'd like to kind of apologize to everybody.
I've been slacking off this month a little bit.
I put my back out.
So I've been a little bit of pain.
I haven't got back to about the logos.
Two Richard RF querying about the logos or anything.
So if you haven't heard from me,
or if you thought I was going to do stuff,
normally I put more of an effort into the show notes.
So this month, I've been just basically posting shows
going to work coming home.
That's fine, Ken.
We do a whole lot.
A couple of times today.
I've said we do this at HDR and we do that at HDR.
And really what I mean by that is Ken has done.
And we know you're doing awful lot.
And we try to make less work for you.
But you just take on so much.
I just want to say if people could give some feedback
on to the show notes that would be fantastic.
Or sorry, feedback on the images and stuff
to directly shout over on Google plus,
to RF querying and just tell them what you think about the logos,
which ones you like.
Go for bit.
You think that they can be improved personally.
Personally, I don't want every time I come down with a new one.
I think, wow, even better.
Just as good on you better.
I'd like to talk about episode 1000 and 1024 if I could.
Right ahead, then I'll chime in.
You ready?
We're now on episode 956.
This is 956 folks.
So the clock is taken.
It only seems like 50 episodes ago.
And it's actually been 50 episodes since we've been talking about this last.
So we need to, what I'd like you all to do is just record.
My name is Bla.
And I listen to Hector Public Radio.
Congratulations on your episode 1000.
And send it in to the show at EP1K.
That's Echo Papa, the numeral one.
And the letter K, epic, EP1K.
At HectorPublicRadio.org.
If you can't remember that, admit at HectorPublicRadio.org.
If you can't remember that.
HPR at HectorPublicRadio.org.
Well, that's not going to work because that will bounce back
because it won't be a member of the list.
So then you need to join the list.
So people can join the mailing list and get involved.
Exactly.
But if they can't remember EP1K then I think we're in big trouble.
So Lenny, yes.
Here in the States, can we call it crunch time?
It is crunch time.
If you're going to get in, it's time to do it.
If you're not going to get in, it's time to reconsider and do it.
I really want every listener, every single listener to send me in,
a quick recording.
My name is Bla.
I've been listening since Apple.
My name is Bla.
Or just a quick 30 seconds.
No more message between 10 and 30 seconds.
My name is, I'm listening somewhere else.
And you know, some best wishes.
Be great.
And this is a perfect use.
If you do not have a microphone or another recording device,
this is a perfect use for the call in line.
Just please remember to hit the pound sign when we're done recording.
Or else the recording will be lost.
And I'd also like to invite the members of all the podcasts.
If they want to record a video, just put that in there as well.
I think it might be no harm now to send out a quick email
and around people as well.
It would be no harm if you don't want any celebrities or anything
to have them record a show, even if we know all of them.
They don't.
You know, somebody who has liners, torvalls, hotline,
get them to record something for us.
It would be a blast.
Yeah, really.
And I mean, and for the listeners too, if you're members of other communities as well,
you know, and those folks over there know of HPR, have heard HPR.
Go ahead and ask those.
Show hosts.
You know, it's it to record a little something for us and get it in.
You know, I'm going to put, I'm going to put the links out was on the spot here.
And I have heard them a couple of times say that they need to do something for HPR.
You know, that's, you know, their own words.
So I'm going to put them on the spot and put their own words back at them.
And, you know, Fab and Dan, we'd like to hear from you guys.
We want some.
We can throw in our epic show here and that's a good start, I think.
I think we really need to contact people because not everybody listens to every show on the time.
I mean, just one thing I want to do.
Let you know how many people you asked me during the week.
I think as part of the information you were given out of the booth.
How many people listen to the show?
And it's roughly, we have about 6000, I think, 6000 people listen every day to the show.
And if you put that into context, that's more, you know, 50% more again than all the people who attend Fostam,
one of the biggest European meetups over an entire three day period.
So, you know, in one day we have, you know, the equivalent.
We have more people listening to 2HPR in a day.
So it's a massive, massive, massive audience.
But remember as well that it's roughly about 50% of the people on any given day who downloads the show.
And then over time, the other show, you know, the rest of the shows are downloaded also that day.
So that number was just astonishing to me.
Because if I remember correctly from your slides that you did at Og Camp,
and I don't know if it was the last Og Camp or the one before,
but at that time it was roughly 1500, I think,
or it was something somewhere there about maybe 1500 people or downloads per day.
And to jump to 6000 since then means, you know,
folks, people who contributed, you're really doing a great job of this.
You've really made a difference.
That's a measurable difference, and there it is.
Yeah, and I want to take this opportunity to apologize.
I really haven't made much progress on this project in the past month.
It's just the last month that maybe by this show I would have arranged for the test
to go towards Mumble Server.
Because he invited everybody to try to come on all at once on the Linux Basics Podcast.
And I didn't realize episode 100 was coming out that it was just last night.
I believe the number 100 Linux Basics solution.
We really should have tried to celebrate that by trying to knock door server offline.
I'm going to get in contact with him because he wanted a couple of weeks lead time
if he hadn't already done it to increase the maximum number of connections on his Mumble Server.
It was something he was going to do anyway.
So it wasn't an additional expense just for us.
But definitely by the next monthly review, I'll have that arranged if we set it up in the meantime.
I'm sure Ken can throw up a banner on Hacker Public Radio dot org.
So I'll just say now, watch this space.
And again, if you've been waiting for an email from me to be invited to episode 10.4,
the panel discussion on the origins of HPR and the day with the tech.
And radio free America and then where everybody back together.
I haven't I I'd slapped off on that too.
So I need to get back on the stick and and track down emails for it for everybody involved in truck.
So if you thought you missed out on the invitation because I haven't got to it yet.
And I just want to also apologize to all the guys on the dev list.
So there's a dev list dev at Hacker Public Radio dot org for free to join that.
And this is the about the Hacker Public Radio scheduling system.
And I actually think that's a terrible name.
We're looking for a new name because what I think we want to do.
What I want to do here is make an application that's modular.
They can be used by anybody.
So not only by people trying to recreate a community podcast metric, but make it usable so that even somebody who wants to start off the room feeds start off the room podcasting.
And set up that they can do an app get install whatever HSS or or whatever it is.
And then everything that they need to do is there they just dump a file into a directory.
Fill out a web form and then press publish and it gets all done for them.
So that would be cool.
The guys.
A lot of people expressed a lot of interest in us and we really appreciate everybody and I do apologize.
We had a meeting scheduled and I just simply could not.
Could not stand without painkillers.
So we postpone that.
I'll probably schedule that for next Saturday more or less around the same time.
So that will be there will be a button up on the front of the website showing when the event is on its world time buddy and it will give the time in UTC and in your time as well.
I have breaking news man interrupt this podcast to to spit some news that you guys please do.
Okay, and this is good news to this is actually great news.
I just got the word over email while we were talking from Bruce Patterson next year's Northeast Linux Fest is going to be combined with next year's Libra Planet event.
So what that means is for all the people who came into Northeast Linux Fest and discovered that Libra Planet was the next week and that they were going to have this one or for all the people who went to Libra Planet and finally missed out on the Northeast Linux Fest.
They're combining the two events into one event next year.
So it's going to be I think greater than the sum of its parts.
This is something that that a lot of people were were lamenting at the times that they were going to that they were having to pick one over the other.
So that is great.
I want to tell everybody what Libra Planet is.
Well, okay, but I just want to say before you do that, I am proposing the name Northeast Libra Fest.
That's what I want to see.
I'll camp US.
That's another good one.
Well, yeah, but it's not just it's not just podcasts, though, or podcasts.
It's true for you.
Okay, go ahead.
But then again, I'll go.
I'll camp isn't also more than just Linux and.
Yes, it's the naming controversy.
Exactly.
What is Libra Planet?
Libra Planet is an event that has gone on at least for two years that I know of.
It's been going on.
It's probably the most under promoted event in the Linux world.
And a lot of people hear about it and go, wow, that sounds great.
When is it?
Oh, last week, darn.
It just doesn't seem to get much, much publicity.
But it is an event put on by the free software foundation.
And it's usually held in Boston.
I believe it has been every time.
I'm not real sure about the details.
And they did it this year, and I was not able to attend.
So I didn't have the time, even though it was a driving distance.
I couldn't make it.
Couldn't get that much more time off from my schedule.
But they had speakers this year that were just mind blowing.
They had Richard Solomon.
They had John Hall, Mad Dog, even though him as.
Who else was there?
Karen and Bradley were there from free is in freedom.
And there are a couple of my podcast heroes too.
I can't even remember all the great people they had, but fantastic stuff.
Fantastic.
You know, I'm much.
No, I'm not even going to say anything.
Just as we're doing this, I'm on KLM side looking to see how much applied will be.
Boy, yeah, it's now even doubly excited for next year's more of these Linux vests.
And this could be the first time that we've actually broken news on HBR.
So I feel like a real reporter now.
I just wanted to say, Ken, like you feel about the American.
Linux.
I feel about all camp.
I would just love to make it there one day.
It's just I don't think it's going to happen.
Also, I was a scrambling here.
Well, you guys were talking because I should have had this prepared.
And I announced this last month.
I wanted to bring it up again.
The celebrations that we're going to do for episode 1,000.
That's where all the well wishes and if you have no.
Maybe somebody you can't be on 1024.
If you have a little short story, we don't want to go on eight, 12 hours.
We've done that once this year already.
But if we stick to the five episode a week release schedule.
And episode 1,000 will fall will fall on Friday.
The first of June.
And then the next month, episode 1024, we could be pre recorded.
It won't be live.
We'll fall on the fifth July, the day after Independence Day.
That's our Independence Day here in the States for everybody else who may have a different Independence Day.
Or may not be independent.
And the answer is 850 euros.
That's like two and a half thousand dollars in American currency.
I think that's ridiculous.
And don't forget, won't you get your gas?
It's going to be five bucks a gallon to get around.
Wow.
Already that.
I looked into driving down to the Southeast Linux Fest because that's the one I'd really like to get to this year.
For just for meeting people because it seems like everybody, at least everybody from the August planet is going to be there.
And driving down and back was like four hundred dollars worth of gas at four bucks a gallon.
And I'm sure it'll be more than that by then.
And we looked into flying down.
And it's a round trip from here to there is like 137 bucks a piece.
It's crazy that you can fly for cheaper than you can drive it.
Yeah, yeah, it's about one thousand one hundred and twenty one dollars.
But anyway, so obviously I'm not going but there you are.
Would be nice.
Every single time like a fool I check.
I think I think we're done folks.
What would be nice is I don't know if we were ever referenced in magazines or publications before.
I know we were referenced in the next format last year.
But if anyone has ever edited a Wikipedia page, it would be nice to have a HPR page no pressure.
We can't obviously do it ourselves.
But if there was somebody listening to the show whose don't Wikipedia pages, it would really be nice to have some sort of entry up there before episode 1000.
Because hey, this is I think it's justified to have a page for HPR.
Really?
Well, I tried to get us on Urban Dictionary, but that's not the same thing.
And they didn't take it.
Why wouldn't it take us from Urban Dictionary?
I guess maybe we're not edgy enough.
We're not.
We're not flying.
But I think Phil is on there.
But I should say we're not.
I never got anything back to my email.
So I assume we're not there.
They took episode 69 and threw the rest out.
Okay, let's not start with that again.
I am all out of topics, guys.
So you don't have anything else.
Or if you do.
Well, everything I had.
You did skip over that one thing like before episode 1000 and 1024 in the notes.
And that's kind of what took you just kind of hit on.
Do you want to talk about that or do you want to leave that for a different time?
Well, that was something from last week.
But if you last month, I just did a copy and paste,
which they had to be our vetting policy or should we release that weekend?
Yeah, the HPR vetting policy.
The only thing I brought up there.
And I'm not sure because I don't I don't want to get into person now.
These are criticizing a particular episode, which is just that some.
Like this out.
Maybe it's not appropriate.
But I did have credit.
Seek criticism.
One particular episode last month.
Come up in on cast.
When somebody had a particular problem with it.
So I didn't know if.
If that was something.
If you want to be me if it's not unsatisfied.
Just leave me alone.
Yeah, I wasn't.
I'm not aware of anything about any of the episodes.
And to be honest, the way to deal with that is to record your own show.
You can also comment in the comments for the episodes.
If you have a country opinion.
But the best way to if you have a problem with any of the episodes is to submit your own show.
And I just want to make it absolutely clear here.
There is no vetting.
If somebody doesn't like any of the shows on or feels that, you know,
there's a biased one way or the other.
Then obviously the thing to do is record your own show and put it in.
And there will be equally no vetting of your show.
So the only thing that we do.
And you see the script on there is seven seconds in.
We check the audio quality.
And if it's a new host, we'll probably jump 14 seconds and 21 seconds.
Just to make sure that there's some mention of something techy in there.
If there is, that's it.
Press yes.
The show is acceptable.
And it goes next.
Is the intro done?
Is the outro done?
Yes, yes.
And then it transcodes it.
And it gets sent up.
If I or anybody else started vetting the shows, then, you know,
this is a community podcast.
All we're doing is offering all, well, I'm doing.
And everybody here on this is we're just peers like everybody else.
We're hosts, which are numbers.
And that's it.
We have no right to say what goes on the network.
Obviously, if I guess if somebody put on some movie content or something that was
all particular problem to, you know, the RIA or whatever,
they do a take down orders.
And I guess we take it down at that point.
But 50 or 50.
I don't know what you're talking about.
So I'm just giving the generic, you know, if I happen to stumble upon whatever it was,
I'm, I don't know any details of the complaint.
But that's just my general feeling.
There is no vetting policy.
Formerly the other.
Yeah, we can, we can, I didn't hear either, but I don't feel the need to hear it
long.
They're 40 either.
So, you know, I'm satisfied by that.
I don't have a problem.
Cool.
Then I'd like to thank everyone for listening to the show,
who's listened to all this way through.
It's been one of our longer monthly wrap-up shows.
Thanks to Ken and 50 for joining me on this and for letting me join them on this,
because it's like Ken said, we're all peers here.
We're all part of the same community.
And even thanks to Alden and Zen for listening and fighting up when we needed him
for that.
That was pretty great.
It just goes to show you anything can happen on HBR.
So thanks everyone for listening and have a great month.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday and Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio is a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday,
Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by yourself.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dark pound and new phenomenon computer cloud.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-sponsored by LUNAR pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LUNAR pages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share alike, details or license.
