Episode: 299
Title: HPR0299: LinuxTalk
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0299/hpr0299.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 15:54:49

---

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Any software written for Windows is going to work when you put in the media and install it.
And the reason why it will work is because Microsoft has a set of rules that people have to follow to make software run on their operating system.
In the world of Linux, this is where some of the confusion comes in.
You've got Xandros and you've got Sioux's Linux Enterprise or we'll just call it Sioux's.
You've got Ubuntu. You've got Mandrake.
There are all these different entities that are producing their flavor of Linux.
They're all kind of the same, but in some ways they're not the same.
So there are some people who are producing their flavor of Linux and they've tried to make it really simple on people like us by having a repository where if you want a particular application, you go to their site and you install it from
their installation source and they're doing that because they've put together the package for that program so that it will install and operate properly on their flavor of Linux.
Does that not make sense to anybody?
If it doesn't make sense, say something out because this is one of the real negatives about Linux.
It's much more wild now in the frontier than it is with Microsoft.
Microsoft wants to make sure that when you buy a product and install it, it's going to work.
No questions asked. With Linux, depending on whose version of Linux you're using, there are many times, many occasions where
the program that you want to install has to be custom tailored to work on that version of Linux.
There's a reason for that. We're not going to touch that here because we're talking about the kernel at this point.
The kernel is really the very part of what makes the whole operating system work. That's probably why.
Now, for Suisse Linux Enterprise or Suisse, most people can get programs to work on these things.
It's fine, but you actually have to do what you don't do when it doesn't go out and find these certain utilities, install them in order to take the program
in essence recompile it in a way that works on your version of Linux.
Does that not make sense?
Let me show you something here. Let me close out this stuff.
I tried to get a program installed on this computer before I came in this evening.
It was a program called New Cash. This one right here that I'm showing you.
This program here actually helps you do all of your home finance, your checkbook, your savings account. It helps you manage all that.
By the way, this is free. It's open source. Well, I tried to run that program.
I met the command line here.
This program, I can't just install it by clicking on something like this.
Because all of this stuff, which came in the program package, doesn't include a particular item whereby this version of Linux can just run the installer and install it.
On this program here, I actually have to do this dot flash configure.
I run this. Now, what it's doing, this is examining everything installed on the operating system.
Making sure that I can actually create an installer to load this program.
Today, I got all the way to the end. Even though I've installed this S-lib utility, it can't find it.
I can't install that program until I can resolve that problem.
When a program is written specifically for a particular version of Linux, you don't have to go through this.
It's as easy as going to.
Right here. Here's my S-lib program.
This RPM package, this version of Linux knows exactly what to do with it. It's as easy as right clicking on it.
You go down to actions and install with yes.
Yes, another system tool is basically the utility that enables you to install software.
That is all I have to do. In a matter of seconds, this is going to examine that little program and it's going to.
It's talking to Novel and a couple other places across the internet.
And now it's looking at the media that I have on the computer.
And it's down where it is.
Yep.
Doing stuff that in Windows you never have to do.
Now that it's done that, you go back and install that other program.
That's three different times.
I tried setting an environment variable that is setting a variable to tell the computer exactly where S-lib is installed.
So of course I went on to Google and I typed in some words to describe my problem.
Lowly all I found out other people were having the same problem.
And there isn't a definite fix for this problem.
There's a thing called definite luck.
Some people have resolved the problem.
I'm one of those who didn't resolve the problem.
And it's all done.
That RPM has to be for your version of Linux.
No.
RPM Red Hat Package Manager.
Anything that you've downloaded that is in a RPM Package.
Soos knows how to work with it.
If you use Red Hat's version of Linux, it knows how to work with it because it stands for Red Hat Package Manager.
And this version of Linux knows exactly what to do with something that is packaged like that and installed.
If you could find this program as an RPM, we wouldn't have any trouble with it.
You said it was a DVN that you were using?
No.
There were Debian variants.
That's the other problem.
You would have to find a package that was a .deb or what's that?
It stands for Debian.
It would be a Debian Package.
If you go to a particular website where they have a product that they make for Linux,
oftentimes you'll see they'll have two or three different types of packages.
But what I suspect you're going to find out is you're going to have a hard time finding those.
And that's why you have to go back to Debian to find packages designed to run on their operating system.
They should have what is called a repository.
A repository is basically a place on their website where they have all these different programs that they have designed to work with.
And they have a link that automatically came up for that on the desktop.
But the other thing that I was finding out in the web through Google search isn't stuff that was for Linux.
I was trying to make it work that I never had no luck with.
Sort of what you just did on that other one.
It was, you know, with that whole window of the line.
I was, it's really, we know what to do with it.
It was, by the time I got to the end, I just had a big mess of stuff installed, but nothing actually working.
It wasn't for their actual servers or not.
And the problem with that is that there are these things called dependencies.
Now again, to go back to Windows, you don't have any dependency problems because anyone who writes a program to work in Windows
has already done all the programming so that it doesn't need anything more.
So when you install it, everything's there. It's good to go.
And Linux, they could actually update the kernel.
That is the very part of the operating system.
I think the kernel is what kind of acts as a translator between the actual hardware and the OS.
And once in a while, the Linux company will update their kernel, which will render some things broken.
Which means you have to turn around then and update some of these libraries and things like that so that they are once again compatible with it.
The Debian kernel is going to be different from perhaps the CIS kernel.
What you're going to walk away with tonight is a realization that Linux can work.
But it's far more complicated and manpower intensive to learn how to use it and to keep it running properly.
I wish I could get this guy here who runs, so I could show you the installation.
I'm not sure why he doesn't want to run the installer.
I wasn't expecting that.
Did he install Linux over the same system you got Windows on?
Yes.
Yes.
You run bugs to do a boot or whatever?
Well, I don't do a boot.
Okay.
I have, actually, I have on my laptop, for example, a program called VMware Server.
I've loaded VMware Server on my Windows XP desktop.
VMware Server allows you to create virtual machines.
So I have my Windows.
And then I have the virtual server, and on that, I've got a Linux installation.
Cool thing about that.
I can go around the Windows here.
Let me just say it's a two, but I didn't say it.
So what?
It starts with a user.
That's an algorithm.
I have, I kind of gave you a copy of that a couple of years ago.
I've had that for the yesterday.
I can just do it as a straight install.
I can install it on a computer with Windows.
I can still run my Windows and get it in play with this.
Right.
I just, I haven't had that computer.
I'm not going to do it on a computer as my family.
The best thing to do is download VMware Server, and you can get a free license for that.
Get that installed on your computer.
So what?
Now I've got five computers, but that's OK.
OK.
And then you go in there and you can just create a virtual machine and install the Ubuntu on that virtual.
Or is this whichever one?
I don't know.
Seriously.
Yeah.
There are four of you here that are working on what continuing web credits.
What specifically would you like to see when it comes to the Linux?
Have you even been curious about it?
Or is it just grabbing a credit?
No, I've got, I've got my son of a while.
You just run a red app.
OK.
All the time.
And then I just got to get it.
In which case, any time you went on the net, if you found a program that was interesting,
you can download the RPM version.
What's jump on the internet here?
I'm going to do a search on Open Source software.
You know, you source.
I can't agree.
I'm going to go to, this is a great website.
It's called source.net.
And line software.
And how about, OK, why not games?
You can never have enough games, right?
This is a bit, this program right here calls to Larry.
This is not a game.
But this is really cool.
And so here, let's just go through this together.
This is an actual planetarium software package.
It is so incredible what you can do with this.
But let's say we go down the way here.
If I click on this, it should want me to tell it.
OK.
The only version here is this archive package.
This is a tar file.
And I tried installing this on this computer here.
I think I've got it in here.
It's no airing.
Actions.
I don't know if that's an extract.
Extract here.
I downloaded this file earlier.
And let's see.
And then so now it's not that easy.
So thanks to these things already.
So there is not a couple of left sitting out.
I'm not doing a minute.
It's a big favor tonight here.
Let me introduce you to another software package.
Has anyone ever used Photoshop?
Yes.
Because you know you can get a program that's just like Photoshop
and pay absolutely nothing for it.
It's called the game.
And this product actually does everything that Photoshop will do.
It's a very good product.
It's not high, it's not okay.
And here we go.
Now if I could find...
I am not a big Photoshop skill type person.
But let's do this.
Let's jump back onto the map.
Let me find an image.
I'm going to find a picture here, just some sort of picture.
Save image.
To the desktop stage.
I'm back here to the camera.
Put my desktop.
And find that.
There we go.
Open.
It's kind of pixelated, but if you use Photoshop,
then Photoshop enables you to create and edit images.
And in this particular case, I think I'm using a paint tool.
You can modify images, and then you can save them and use them elsewhere.
And then we just save that, and then use the copy you want to.
Let me see.
How about printing?
Let's fill in that.
I'm going to show you how easy it is to set up a printer.
I'm going to show you how easy it is to set up a printer.
I plug in this old HP laser chat.
I'm going to just introduce you to this menu down here.
If you click down here on this thing, it's kind of some sort of wizard thing.
It's the logo.
Now, where the start button would be in Windows, we have all the different programs
that have been installed with this particular version of Linux.
Down here, under Tools, under Printing, Printing Manager,
this is where we can actually set up a printer set.
And doing that is as easy as clicking on this Add button to add a printer.
Click on Next.
It's a local printer because it's attached to my computer.
By the way, Linux will, a computer that has Linux on it will fully function with a Windows computer.
You can actually set it up to talk between the two.
You can use Linux machines and a Windows network.
Click on Next.
My printer is on Parallel 4-1.
Click on Next.
It's going to take a look on that part and see what it sees.
What's doing that?
Try to see where I'm going to use it.
Add issues.
Okay.
What we get now is a list of manufacturers, printer manufacturers.
I have an HP printer here.
Then open here.
I'm going to look for the model with a laser jet.
This is what?
Laser jet 16, I believe.
I'll just see what it says.
Start with this.
There are several different options to choose from here.
I'm just going to take this first one.
Click on Next.
Let's test.
Test page successfully.
Send to printer.
Light is flashing.
Printer comes on.
Click on Next.
Next.
Next.
Give it a name here.
Click the Next and Finish.
Next.
Next.
Next.
Next.
Make my light easier.
I'm going to add this item to the desktop.
Now I've got the print manager right here.
Here's the print.
So.
Minch or.
This.
Try it.
This new,か.
Only many problems are always feedbacked.
So.
Well, some consolation, but it worked earlier, so we've got one, two, just like that.
I'll never be invited back.
Thank you very much.
And finally, something might work.
We have a webpage.
That's how easy it is to install a printer on my face.
Another useful tool.
Next comes with an email client called Evolution.
So, we'll name, see if I can do this.
You know, there are so many, maybe, that on-casts.
Okay, slow down.
I presume everyone has an email account in someone.
Okay.
Contest anyone in your account?
A cable company goes down and smokes.
Yaw's a mail?
Something like that.
Okay, so the Yaw's a mail, you probably access the web browser, right?
Okay.
Does anyone use Outlook?
Okay.
So, you could use a product like Evolution.
It's just one of several.
I have an account with Contest, so what I'm going to do is, I'm going to actually see if I can set up this mail client to pull my mail from the Contest,
this mail server, and why I need to do first, because I don't remember.
I'm going to go to Contest and find out.
There we go.
This is Contest.com and the mail is Contest.
Okay.
If you have Contest, for example, you can get your email online without just by logging in, sign in.
So, there, via the web browser, I'm able to get into the email.
See all the wonderful spam I probably have.
Just like if you were in the Internet Explorer, same concept, go into your inbox, stuff like that.
All sorts of school-related stuff.
So, now, ask Contest.
What I want to find out is the names of their mail server.
Let's try to do this.
So, let me explain what I'm doing.
I want to set up my email program on this computer to be able to go directly to Contest, so that I can send and receive emails.
I have the product that they call Evolution.
What I need to know, though, setting that up, is the name of their mail server.
When I send email, it's going to go out through this mail server at Contest.
Mail that is being sent to me will come in through this one.
There's two different servers to manage their mail.
What I need to know are those two pieces of information there.
So, I will jump back over here to set up.
And I am setting up for my mail, and I believe it's coming in, so I'm going to put it.
I'm going to put it in here.
I'm going to paste that in.
Click on Next.
I can tell it how often I want it to check and see that I have mail.
Look on this.
I'm going to paste that in, right there.
I'm going to use your name.
I'm lazy.
I'll have to remember my password.
I'm going to log in.
I'm going to log in on my time zone.
So, I'm going to log in.
I'm going to use your time zone.
I'm going to add an apple.
That's where I hold it and apply.
Okay, password there.
I'm going to put it in here.
It's working.
So, an email client is included with this version of Linux, and we just went through the setup.
Real quick and simple on how to set up your account.
I'm going to put that in here.
That's how easy it is to set up a mail client in Linux, at least this particular version here.
I've hit on the internet.
I've hit on email.
I've shown applications the open office program, which is essentially a similar clone to Microsoft Office.
We set up a printer.
Oh, here's another thing.
The easiest device ever come out.
Who knows what the floppy drive.
Everyone have a flash drive with them?
Does anyone not have one of these?
You don't have one?
I don't have one.
I have a computer at home.
You don't?
I don't work all the sudden.
You're not at work.
I'm not working.
There wasn't a floppy disk app.
But then a long came flash memory.
This is just probably the coolest thing that's ever come out.
This particular one is eight gigabytes of storage.
That's incredible.
You could put a movie on this thing.
What we're trying to do at the schools.
The thing nightmare when you're managing a network.
Once we get on networks, we like to start accumulating stuff.
Isn't it?
I think that's the human thing.
We like to accumulate stuff.
Next thing you know, people like the network manager is going crazy because he's getting a warning message on his console saying that there's only two or three gigabytes at this stage left on the server.
And you know, if you don't fix that real quick, people are going to get a little excited.
So what we're doing is I think we're actually going to buy every teacher an eight gigabytes flash drive.
I would say you've got a week to get all your stuff off.
That's really cool.
Because now you can carry around everything that you consider important.
And you can move them eight gigabytes.
Oh, yeah.
Well, I've got to tell you back in the days of the 386, for example.
I'm talking a long time ago, but just two megabytes of memory was expensive.
Well, I remember buying a megabyte for 74 bucks a megabyte.
But just thinking if I drive cost me $11.
$11.
Because it's getting a bite.
That's how four gigabytes are pretty.
Yeah.
Yeah, coming from our handing these things out with their advertising material on it, their marketing literature.
College is giving you the latest students coming in.
Absolutely.
I remember when people got excited that they'd open an account of the bank and they'd give them a toaster or something.
Now, you got this stuff.
Well, the question here is, will these work on Linux as well as they do on anything else?
And the answer is, you got the proper drive.
Yeah, but it really is a driver.
Well, plug it in there.
Let's see if we can find it.
There it is.
Linux is mature enough now that it will recognize.
Oh, this is kind of cool.
We had an interesting thing happen up at Northeastern Elementary School.
You see those shiny cores?
They had a water pipe break in one of the heaters.
Many men, they said, we kid you not.
They had four inches of water in one of the classrooms.
And in top water, they are having to strip gut two of the classrooms right down to the sheet rock because these rooms literally steamed.
But anyway, I didn't show you this to tell you that.
That's that story.
But look, I just plugged it in and there it is.
You know, the cool thing is, you can plug a camera in here if you've got a digital camera.
You can probably plug it into your Linux box now.
You won't need any special software.
It will simply know how to interface with it properly.
That's a plus for Linux.
Huh?
Pretty bad.
Okay, close.
You know, here's another cool thing that's probably not anything about.
If you got a digital camera and you suddenly realized you needed to move a file somewhere,
you needed to make a copy of a program or something.
Did you know you can copy it onto your camera and transport it that way?
It's like an external growth.
That's right.
Anything that has memory now, it doesn't have to just be pictures.
It can be whatever you want to put on there.
It just treats it like another drive on your computer.
So, this is cool.
This is all of that.
Is that so slow or is that not on the internet?
So, why don't you talk about some security?
Yeah.
Let me go into this.
On Sus Linux, we have this thing called yes.
And it's really, it's where you can configure the machine, all sorts of stuff like that, for example.
Software management is where you would actually go to add and remove programs at,
just to a quick introduction to this.
What it's doing right here where you see the same downloading file,
when I installed the software and registered it with no bell,
they also, the machine was configured to know where to go to no bell to find files necessary
or upgrades and service packs, things like that.
We don't have service, I think we have service packs.
But if I, for example, wanted to, I don't know, let me search again, type on search.
And what I get here is a list of all the files associated with that program,
against being a program that is like a Photoshop clone.
And it's from here where I could either choose to install them or choose to uninstall them.
For example, if I wanted to uninstall that dense program, just click here to see a trash can.
And then when I click on accept down here, it will go ahead and uninstall that program for you.
It's actually not with that sample.
I'll cancel this little thing as you can, as well, all sorts of stuff.
Even on the desktop version of Suicide Center Prize, you can create users,
just like you can with windows.
I don't know why we keep coming back to windows, but it's what everyone's familiar with.
Creating a user is done from here.
If this sample is clicking on add, you come up in the name.
What if I use a door as an example?
The Ash Broke.
Okay, three of these names could be the Ash Broke.
Put in the door.
And password.
It was number one, two, three, four, five, six.
Confirm.
And this is going to show you this, number three, four, five, six.
So I click on accept.
No.
Len says, you've got to be crazy.
It's not a secure password.
It's too simplistic.
Do you really want to use it?
I'll say, yeah, I do.
Well, you've only used digits for the password.
And that's a terrible way that I did.
I get really straight when I use this.
Secure passwords combined numbers, letters,
and even symbols like the panel sign or a dollar sign
or something like that, a hyphen.
When you create a password that is not an actual word,
that means that it's very difficult to guess what it might be
if you're not supposed to know what it is.
And you're not going to find a dictionary anywhere,
so hackers couldn't use a dictionary type hacking program
to discover that through a course.
And you have used uppercase letters.
Yeah.
And you don't like it.
We have an account now for doors ashram,
which means doors can log in on this computer
and have their own private desktop, have their own private files,
and that sort of thing.
Even though this is just a desktop version,
it still provides you with capability that multiple users.
Interesting thing about Linux is you can go in
to the account and you can determine
what specific applications or groups of applications
that person would have access to.
Let's say Doris has some free time every once in a while.
We'll make sure that she can actually have access
to programs for games.
You can really hold in.
Let's say you're a parent and you've got kids at home
and you want to control what they do
from a computer that has Linux.
Linux is a great machine to have in the case
where you might want to control what your kids can do on a computer.
Because it really lets you get right down
into the nitty-gritty of what they can have access to.
For example, if you don't want them getting on the internet,
you can set things up so they can.
Linux has a full firewall of course,
but not finished.
It's going to write all those settings down here.
We have a firewall.
A firewall means you can see out
that people on the internet cannot see in to your computers.
It is absolutely crazy.
It's insane to run a computer now
without having some sort of firewall software running on the computer.
Because if your machine doesn't have a firewall,
it's very easy for ill-mannered individuals
so that nothing better to do with their lives.
To get into your computer and to install malicious software
to gain access to data you may have.
But an idea that has a firewall running.
The firewall, this one here,
can actually provide the list of all these different things,
all these different services that you either permit
or don't permit.
You don't have enough time to even go anywhere near these things here.
You can fully control how secure that computer is.
Oh, come back here.
We can also right-click on here.
We can go to figure out the best top.
You can set screen savers.
You can set your background.
You can see the different backgrounds available.
Well, and we're at what?
What time are you going to?
8.30.
Did you want to take a few minutes break or anything like that?
I can see if I can get this to go to the installation.
Is that right?
What about this time we all took a break and went to the bathroom?
So I will give you guys a little musical interlude.
This track is from CyberCod and I don't know what it's actually called
because I don't think he's actually finished with it
and he's probably going to kick my ass for playing it.
But here it is.
This track is from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod.
and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from
CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod
and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from
CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod and it's from CyberCod
and it's probably reading a lot of stuff . A little progress bar gives you an idea of the things
By the way, in no bell land, the clock never goes past 6 o'clock.
No bell engineers have commented on that more times than I can count.
Okay.
What language do we want to use?
We're going to do the English.
UF English.
Click on Next.
We have a little agreement here.
We have a little agreement here, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Click on Yes.
Next.
It's looking at all the hardware on the computer.
And the mode, we're going to do a new installation.
Click on Next.
It's reading through all the catalogs of software and stuff that is on really DVD.
Over here on the left hand side, you can see it's actually showing you where you are
in the installation process.
Right now, it's just doing a system analysis.
I want to know what time zone we're in.
We're going to be prompted here.
Here are the Eastern time zone UF.
I'm going to leave my clock set to local time.
If you choose the universal time coordinated UTC, you're going to have your clock based upon
a Greenwich mean time.
That would just be terribly confusing because right now it's 2 o'clock to 42 universal
coordinated time.
Let's just use local time.
Because now we know that it's 7.42.
But now, by the way, the clock is in 24 hour time for that.
That's why it says 9.42 right now.
Click on Next.
It's going to show us everything it's discovered about the system here.
Shrink Windows Partition to...
I'm going to click on Partition because I want to get rid of that Windows Partition.
If you're starting...
You are going to use a computer that had an operating system on it.
You'll probably have to do this.
I'm going to go to...
These Partitions set up on this proposal.
We'll see what it goes here.
I want to be able to delete that.
Here we go.
I'm going to delete all of this stuff and I'll go backwards.
Delete...
Delete.
I'm going to delete.
I have a great time just waiting if I want to show you the installation.
All right, so we're going to change this.
We're going to have this amount, and we're going to go back.
We're going to change practitioners, and we're going to do more to create.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up.
And then we're going to stir it up a little bit more to make sure it moves.
And then we're going to stir it up a little bit lower to make sure in a little bit lower.
Stir it up a little bit more to make sure it moves.
Stir it a little bit.
Yes.
It's the leading of all the old partitions from the hard drive.
That's just another way of saying it's getting rid of everything that has been on there.
What do you know?
Others are different, but all that is okay.
And now at this point here, the installation begins.
Over here on the right-hand side, they're going to show you the progress as we go along.
Now, what if I want to keep Windows on that thing?
Can't do it.
Yes, you can.
But I'm going to tell you, I have never set up a machine to do those things.
Well, I have a need.
I would instead, if you wanted to have both, I would put the VMware server on Windows XP machine.
Yeah.
And then I would create, I mean, that's what I'm thinking.
That's the way I do it.
Make sure you've got a good golf memory and a good sized hard drive.
I'd recommend you have four gigabytes of memory.
I've got two right now, probably two more.
Yeah.
Now two is okay.
I've got two on my laptop.
And the one I did was I allocated a gig to the Linux server.
I got three or two on the new hard drive.
Yeah, that's enough.
Package, like any user, was not found out of any of them.
All right.
So on that Ubuntu disk, there's a program called Woobie that'll actually install Linux inside of your Windows partition.
Yeah.
I got two disks with that.
Yeah.
So the best thing to do would be to get a new Ubuntu disk because it actually comes with that already on the disk.
And what it'll do is add your Linux install inside of your Windows and remove programs thing.
Okay.
So if you ever decided that you really wanted the hard drive space back and you really didn't care about Linux,
you could actually just remove it out of your and remove programs and Windows.
And it would just cleanly uninstall itself.
I think that's a lot better than all I went through last summer.
There was a thing that was set up at this time.
So why did you go to Vista?
Just because I think we don't have it here at the library and I wanted to get the experience on it.
I've since decided we're not going to get it here at the library.
We're going to wait for Windows 7.
Yeah.
So I think we've got to wait before they're ever got off the ground.
A lot of people are not happy with it.
Yeah, their model should be ready for an experience.
I don't know.
No, I won't use that for a case.
We have one machine that we have it on.
That's for the Silverintendant.
And all he does is email the internet and two or three different calendars and calendars.
I play with it quite a bit.
I've got the home premium.
I wish now I had bought the top of the line, the original, whatever, because there's a lot of stuff missing.
That's what they've done with all the different burdens.
They don't tell you what's there and what's not.
They go through and by trial and error finally inside it, the features just not build into this burden.
And that's for real pain.
And that's where Linux hurts out well because Linux, it's all on there.
And if it's not in there, you can go get it.
I think we'll just wait on the one that's falling.
Probably not in the internet, but we have to worry about the filers.
No.
There are only 16 viruses written for Linux.
Eight of them were by people trying to prove that they could do it.
And the other eight have been fixed in the kernel.
That was a great question.
I'm glad you asked that.
Well, here's the other very good thing about Linux.
What I'm doing right now, and what I was showing earlier on,
I was logged in as the root account, and root is like the administrator account.
The only time you want to work as the root user is when you're actually installing stuff or making changes to your setup.
But normally you don't want to work all the time as root.
Because root has full access to everything.
So what you would do is actually log in just a regular user that has more limited privileges.
And the reason why that's safer is because root is the only one that can make changes.
If you do happen to pick up something, or if you happen to go on a website that tries to exploit what you've got going.
If they're not root, they can't do anything to it, so the system itself.
A lot of people don't even run antivirus on Linux, because it's just so immune currently.
I actually have a friend who's a security professional, and he said that antivirus on Linux is actually a waste of time.
Yeah, a waste of time, waste of resources.
I'm still trying to get rid of it and overclock it.
And we can see over here the amount of time remaining for the installation.
This is why I want to have two screens going.
So I can actually work between the two of them.
Any other questions that I can answer?
I don't know, maybe that's screen slavery, I don't know.
Yeah, thanks a lot.
You're just kidding me, right?
No, what do you have before?
I don't know.
Let's take a look here.
Screen saver, screen saver.
There's the background.
Screen saver right there.
It's called, oh, it's just the random one.
When I first came up a lot ago, it was called diagonalizer.
It was just building up from there.
I was drawing a little studio, so I thought it was always like that.
Each, there are several different categories of screen savers built in here and you can select.
Oh, I know.
I saw flying things.
They've got one called, flying toasters.
Where are they?
There's a different section, line, galaxy.
Oh, here's another interesting thing to know.
Does anyone like to copy their music from their music CDs onto their computers?
So they can play it on an empty screen player or anything like that?
Have you noticed now in Windows Media Player that...
Well, I've got a bunch of songs that I had copied off of Friends TV.
For some reason now, when I try to play those with a newest version of Windows Media Player,
it plays about seven or eight seconds worth and then it quits because apparently it knows that I'm not the one who's supposed to have those songs.
And I don't advocate music that provides anything like that, but Linux has not...
Most of the people writing music players for Linux have not straddle themselves with the digital copyright stuff.
So there tends to be a little more freedom in terms of what you do with music and other things of that sort.
I'm looking for one called Flying Toasters.
There they are.
There they are.
I think this is my favorite screen of the same room.
Flying Toasters have touched.
Is that my hardware board?
I don't know who came up with that idea, but...
That was probably a video captured of a recent UFO invasion of the Earth and the government just failed to tell us about it.
I don't know how to tell if you're a free agent in a certain part of managing with both of them.
Did you have to hire additional people to manage?
Oh right.
Even the teachers are begging the superintendents to hire some additional technology staff that just isn't going to happen.
So do you make sure that...
Or would you go back to the old, the other way you had people?
Well, I'm not using Linux up there right now.
I have it on servers and stuff like that, but it became unmanageable.
That's a single person.
I am currently responsible for 534 computers.
I know the exact numbers.
And the only way I could get the classrooms to continue operating reliably was switch back to Windows XP.
I would not have done that.
If at that time, Linux had just been a little more mature, and if I had some additional tools to keep it locked down so that it didn't change.
I use a program called Deep Freeze to keep all of my Windows machines in a condition where they can't be altered.
And you can manage every moment.
Yeah, and that's one of the other key is when you find yourself in a position where it's just you and yourself and no one else.
You've got to find a way to use technology to enable you to better understand what you're responsible for.
Well, at that time, Toronto did not have the version of Deep Freeze for Linux.
They do now.
At that point, by the time I got to that point, the teachers and the students both were pretty unhappy with the way things were going.
Of course, that just killed me because I am just one of those perfectionists, I guess.
That's why I'm going to go home and have my spare spouse night.
There's nothing went the way I wanted it to.
But I couldn't keep the technology working to where it was not a problem.
And so that's why I had to go back to Windows because I had to have machines that were operating effectively.
If you're going to be in a company and are going to, I'm sorry.
If you're going to be in an environment and you want to deploy Linux, you really need to have one person who really is devoted to that.
And I think I'm right on the border of confident enough to maintain Linux in an enterprise environment.
And I could probably do it, but I wouldn't be able to do anything else because it would be two times now.
That's why I know that this version, I'm sorry, this version is more of an enterprise version.
Well, you can certainly use it at home.
But you might want to look at Ubuntu.
And it was convenient to be able to bring things in in the back.
I'm not going to do it at all.
But you can go online and you can download Ubuntu.
Yeah, I didn't know the updated with what you were talking about.
That sounded great.
They updated every six months.
I'll strip it off the mic.
I'll take that out of there and put it in by the way.
It would be a lot of money.
Well, what I hope you came away with tonight is an awareness that Linux certainly can work.
I mean, the most important things for most people are kind of get on the internet.
Can I do my email?
Can I type letters and maybe do spreadsheets, PowerPoint type things?
The answer to all that is yes.
Is there a father's software out there that I can use the answer is yes.
I think door storage again, because like you said, that is a great, great tightness.
Yeah, it's got the wood.
It's not just Linux.
Right.
Yeah, source, source, source, source.
Torch.net.
Source, forge, for the larger.
Yeah, I mean, pull it up on this other machine over here.
It's one of the best sites out there.
I didn't want you one as far as all of this.
Source, source, source, stop, stop.
Yeah.
And then just, you go to the software and software.
And there's just a wealth of stuff available.
One of the things about source, source, stop.
And it's not just a repository of all sorts of open source programs.
But it's also a place where people can propose a program they would like to see.
Or someone might propose a program that they're working on and they solicit for other people to help participate in that project.
So not only will you find fully functioning programs at sourceforge.net,
but you'll also find programs that haven't even really taken shape yet.
You can actually see them as they're being developed real-time.
Another good thing to see is schools.
There's also one called schoolforge.net.
And schoolforge.net is focused more on stuff that you would use in an educational environment.
So cool to be able to work with an aunt tonight.
That's our attack projector, earth projector screen.
It's a handbook very carefully.
Schoolforge.net, education software.
And they haven't broken down by the different categories of systems too.
There is some waterhole software out there for schools.
And I really wished I could have demonstrated more of that tonight.
I could have brought in a Windows machine and shown what we're using up at the schools.
3D modeling program.
Here's one called Audacity as a full media player.
I just installed that in here.
Blender is just a fascinating program.
It's a full-training render.
Again, that's why I showed you earlier.
It's a Photoshop clone.
Again, it's really cool.
One of the things I like using GEM4s.
Well, here's one that we did.
Every year at Northeastern Heights School, the eighth grade does an end of the year slide show.
And they have used PowerPoint for the last several years.
Last year, and this year, again, they're now actually using Premiere, Adobe Premiere.
So that they can combine video, videos and music tracks and all that sort of stuff.
Well, they had this one scene where they had this big, huge grizzly bear posterboard cut out.
And they took a picture of that grizzly bear cut out.
And then we used the GEM to erase everything except for the grizzly bear and save it with a transparent background.
And we then took that grizzly bear and laid it on top of a picture of a kid doing a judo kick in some sort.
And it looked like he was fighting the grizzly bear.
Well, the Photoshop let us edit that one picture and then lay it down on top of another one.
There was another one where they took a picture of all the kids who did that slide show programs for the year.
They were all a big group.
Well, we took that and we erased the background.
We found a picture of a big huge Air Force C5 Galaxy Paraguay airplane.
And we laid the picture of that group inside.
So it looked like they were actually standing inside of this airplane.
And there was another one, a picture we had of the Lincoln Monument.
We put the picture there and we actually ended up having them kind of a wears wall sort of thing.
And we had these kids in front of all sorts of places, the Mount Rushmore.
So the GEM is really cool because it really lets you play with pictures and stuff like that and get really creative.
I did this one. I found a picture of some places in the Hampshire Center of a little town.
And this guy with a girl on the back of his motorcycle.
I found a picture of a Cheetah.
So I edited the picture and made it look like this Cheetah was running across the road in front of a motorcycle.
I guess that's what I do for fun.
So I'll get it out.
Inksgate, Dr. Graphic Senator.
It's just a wealth of software just at those two websites alone.
Now this is screen software I guess.
I'm sorry?
Is this screen software?
Absolutely.
If it's open-source software, you're not going to be charged for it.
The license specifically says that you can't be charged for that.
So well, Doris is not everything that I hope for, but I hope some of it was relevant.
Maybe we do it again someday.
I don't know.
Thank you for listening to Haftler Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net.
She'll head on over to C-A-R-O dot-A-T for all of her team.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
