Episode: 770
Title: HPR0770: byobu
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0770/hpr0770.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 02:07:39

---

.
Hello everyone, I'm JWP and this is my monthly hacker public radio edition.
I was learning about my stock of Ubuntu and I came across something extra in the accessories panel
that I haven't seen before and that somehow I installed itself without really asking it to or doing something to it.
Okay, so I'm going to butcher this thing's name. It's BYOBU.
So, BYOBU is a Japanese term for decorative multi-panel screens that serve as folding-room dividers.
As an open-source project, BYOBU is a lightweight configurable window manager built upon a G and U screen with elegant enhancement of otherwise functional playing practical G and U screen.
The BYOBU includes an enhanced profile and configuration utilities for the G and U screen, window manager such as
toggleable system status and notifications.
Usage, let's look at the BYOBU screen.
The bottom right row of BYOBU contains from left to right your distribution logo, name, uptime, CPU load, frequencies, RAM amount and usage and the date.
You could have different info like the total number of processes or network statistics if this information is highly configurable.
To configure it, all you have to do is press F9 and I have it open on my machine right now and it's the fault it has some very nice colors to it.
So, at the lower left there, it has a boom to 11.04 which is my stock machine and has an uptime which is 21 hours, 22 minutes and currently I'm not using very much CPU.
So, it has, and the CPU that hurts is fluctuating actually somehow.
So, it's probably because it's a laptop and it fluctuates.
It says I'm using my 2GB 24% and it has the time on it.
Now, if you're using something like, say, my links is slug that I built and you put this BYOBU thing on it.
It's really, really helpful and it has a little bit of color on it, a little bit of color on it, maybe.
That would be really interesting if I could get that color out of a remote system.
But, in any case, it's great. Moving on to the second part of my info.
Guys, I purchased a new HP netbook and the reason I purchased this was that I was having trouble with the Ubuntu presentation mode.
I was using wine to do the PowerPoint 2007 viewer and the Libra Office presenter didn't really present really well with stock Ubuntu and a projector.
I couldn't get it to work. I realized that some people can't get it to work really well and everything.
So, what I did was I went and I bought a HP 210-1017 in R.
This thing has a trackpad on it but it has a pretty big trackpad.
It doesn't have a separated buttons for the trackpad.
So, I loaded it up. It came with this Windows 7 Starter. This thing is almost completely useless. This is a Windows 7 Starter.
It's very buggy, very slow.
So, I went ahead and I got my work commonplace operating system and I installed it, which is Windows 764 bit.
I went to the store and I got the 2GB memory module to go in it and it has a 250GB hard drive.
After much pain and suffering, I finally managed to get all of the 32 bit stuff working on it.
So, all the buttons and everything. I got it to work and everything's great because it's the stock thing from my company.
To include the activity key and everything. It was quite a bit of work.
Then I said, well, you know, this big hard drive, I can go ahead and take 20GB and so I installed Subuntu on this partition.
And the thing does not right click.
And so I said, oh, it's got to be an easy fix. I'll just type it into the Ubuntu form and I'll figure it out.
And it came with 27 pages of different instructions.
Apparently, there are 31 different models made and each one has a different death sensitivity or something like this with this trackpad.
Now, of course, if I use a mouse or a attachable USB track ball, everything works flawlessly.
But it sort of defeats the purpose of having a portable netbook that I want to use the trackpad.
So, I have a challenge to everyone. And there is a prize. My Nokia N770 is getting long in the tooth.
And so I replaced it with an Android device from Entourage recently. And so I don't have a need for it anymore.
And I was just going to donate it at the AUGCAMP this year. But in the spirit of competition, I'm going to be at the AUGCAMP.
And whoever can make the changes to my Ubuntu installation to make the trackpad work gets the Nokia N770 with all of the CDs for all of the hacks.
So the 2006 version, the 2007 version, the 2008 version, and all of the software and cheats and everything that I have will be on a separate CD.
And it's in great condition too. I would say about 85% condition if I had to say anything.
And the battery on it is pretty good. It connects to any Nokia phone. I use the 2007 browser. And it seems to work fairly well.
And you can play games and it's a great little e-reader even today, even though it's five or six years old. It works really well.
So that's going to be the price. So I call out all the Ubuntu freaks.
Also, if you think that Ubuntu might not be the right thing for me, if you don't want to use any Debian-based or Fedora or anything like that, just bring your USB stick and we'll let you, as long as you don't destroy the data partition,
you can reinstall the however you want to get it to work.
The only thing that I ask is that if it's a configuration file, that you also give it to me as a separate file or tell me where that is in the system so that when I do upgrade to the next long-term support release, I will have it.
Okay. Well, that's pretty much it. It's a little long from a normal hacker public radio thing. I hope everything goes well with you all. If you all have any comments or solutions or anything that you need to contact me with, my email address is jwp5athopmail.com.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio. For more information on the show and how to contribute your own shows, visit hackerpublicradio.org.
