Episode: 718
Title: HPR0718: How I got into Linux
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0718/hpr0718.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 01:27:04

---

And today I'm going to start naming it a real one,
the articles that keeps you going with it.
You know, this is exhausting as,
why I created this,
and how it actually works.
And when I'm asked to follow this rocky design,
it's very difficult.
But I know you're all trying to smelled it.
So why is it very difficult?
It is...
Hello, this is Sean Campbell, aka Brother Red.
My mom says it's pronounced camp bell, but I say it looks like the soup, so I'll make
it sound like the soup.
This is how I got into Linux, GNU Linux.
I got into Linux by way of a slow revealing of a whole world of different software than
I was used to.
It might have started when I was running Windows 98, and listening to a Chicago-based sports
talk show, late in the hours of the night, that is because the host of the show had a huge
fan who made a website for him, and so the show ended up having a web form, IRC chat,
and even fantasy sports.
This was about 2001 or two I think.
Anyway, the guy did all of the work and hosted the website with all his components at his
house and used Linux to power it all.
But actually, my slow recognition of forest Linux had a lot to do with Red Hat 9, which
I got in, which I had started running some time before the radio show.
I bought the Red Hat 9 with a PC magazine, I can't remember the name, but I was thrilled
with the fact that I was able to install a free operating system.
The problem was that I could not get online with it as I had dial up internet at the time.
I had dial up internet issues continued to be a real issue for me for some years.
Since then, I have been on many different distros, and I did not decide to go full-blown
Linux until the Fedora Core 6 or 7 days.
But then I was running PC Linux OS, but I can't remember the version.
I still sometimes date my current Linux experience by the Fedora Core 6 or Fedora that's
out.
My experience with Linux has not all been rosy.
I was an AM band from the PC Linux OS, IRC, and Forms, for telling a very nice person
to f off, but I did not do that, and I never would, especially in a moderated chat.
My insistence that I did not do any such thing got me booted from the Forms as well.
Having my PC help and answers community pulled from me is the cost of not doing what is said
that I did.
I still love Linux, GNU Linux, especially, and have been calling the evangelist for
it.
I'm on Manjava, and all as well.
Mostly what I do with my computer now is play games, and I do download torrents, movie
torrents and stuff, but mostly it's just playing games a little bit audio editing.
Video editing.
My biggest successes with Linux have been encoding songs from a really obscure and admittedly
proprietary codec to MP3 or AUG or whatever was needed to be.
Or recording songs from a tape, and then editing them on my computer, and I was able
to do that with a recent song for my pastor.
It was a watch the lamb, and we actually downloaded, watched the lamb video of a play
about Jewish father and a son's going to Jerusalem for sacrifice, and I removed that and
inserted silence into that video, and then took the recording that I had made and edited
and pasted that in to the video, and before I did that I actually had to speed up the timing
of the song for six seconds.
And I make it much simpler, I make it sound much simpler now, but I had to learn the
hard way at each step of the process pretty much.
That's why a lot of things are with me in Linux, and that's why I tend to spam easier
to use distros, and I haven't traveled very far from my home base, which was DRPM, back
with Red Hat 9.
Well, that's my experience and heart aches and joy, really, a joy, much more joy with Linux
than there is with any other operating system I do believe.
That's me, and that's me who's have a good one, and thanks for listening to Hacker Public
Radio.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over to CARO.NC for all of us in need.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
