Episode: 564
Title: HPR0564: robomofo
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0564/hpr0564.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 23:11:24

---

.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Packer Public Radio.
Today will be your host, my handle on IRC, a few texts.
And today we are going to be talking about the RoboMofo.
The RoboMofo is the thing that reminds you of RoboCop.
Its purpose is for mobile computing.
And its fortissimo, its loud, its awesome, its great.
This is a project that I worked on.
At the beginning of the year maybe around January or so.
And I haven't had a lot of time to work with it.
But I did get it together and completely working.
And I built it.
And I haven't had a lot of time to use it as much as I'd like.
But it is fully functional and working.
And so I'm going to talk a little bit about it.
It was building a certain type of mobile computer.
So this was back in January when people were all the Mac heads were getting excited.
And very excited about this idea of Apple bringing out some kind of touchpad device.
At the time.
And it was going to be the greatest thing since the invention of the wheel.
But a lot of people thought.
And I thought too that that really wasn't a good idea.
Touchpad to general, they're not from an engineering point of view a very good design.
They're not very good design for two reasons.
The first reason is the display is big.
It needs to be big if you can see it.
I thought holding it really close to your face.
You know that's the problem with cell phones is they have these beautiful displays.
But they're so small.
And they take up enough for your field of view that you got a squint to see anything.
You have this problem of getting a big display in which you have to, if you're going to do that,
you have all the engineering disadvantages that come with it.
Which are how do you power it.
Right.
You have to have huge batteries, expensive batteries that aren't going to last very long.
It's just kind of the reality of the thing.
And I guess Apple made their product.
They spent a lot of time engineering on the battery.
And then you also have weight too.
You know, this is something you ought to be mobile.
And the bigger it gets, the more batteries, the bigger the LCD.
It's going to get heavier and it's not convenient to carry around.
And if this is something you're going to be viewing, you have to hold it in your hands and it's get heavy.
And inconvenient.
You wouldn't want to be reading from it.
So that's one engineering problem.
The other big problem with a touchpad device is the user interface.
And how does the user give their input into the device.
And touch screens, you know, this really kind of...
You know, it's like this aura that goes with a touch screen.
It's very futuristic and neat how it can respond to your touches.
But it's a very poor human interface system.
You know, it's good for cell phones where you have very small real estate and the user interface can change.
And so you can maximize the real estate you have by letting it change more into what it needs to be at the given time.
But there are problems in that compared to other types of interface means you don't have haptic feedback.
And it takes a lot of neural energy to take your finger, watch your finger, direct your finger to where it needs to be on the screen, press it, make sure it press correctly.
And it's just a really inefficient way of doing things.
And it turns out that people can't use these tablets effectively for much more than just maybe pressing play to watch a movie or something.
You're not going to write a book. You're not going to do any programming with a touch screen. It's just not going to work.
So what's the solution?
So for the user interface device, I think that the best way to go is not to touch pad, but we're just going to go to what works and what works.
And as extremely effective is a keyboard, right? A full size ergonomic keyboard that has great haptic feedback.
It's got discrete keys that you hit and either get wrong or you get right and you don't have to look at it.
You can just, it's just going to be a cerebellar response, you know, with touch typing and you can type into the keys extremely quickly.
And people have spent a lot of time learning to touch type, learning keyboard layouts.
And if you do a lot of command lines, stuff like I do, if you work with tiling window managers and text editors, extremely efficient way, tap completion, all these great things, extremely efficient way of getting your thoughts and your input into the device.
So goals to have a full size ergonomic keyboard, right? That's one solution.
The other solution is the other solution to the problem is the display.
So we got this problem that if we use an LCD, it gets big, it gets heavy, and you can't power it.
So how do we deal with this? And here we're going to go in a more non-traditional route and we're going to use video glasses.
Okay, so what's the idea there? Well, instead of making the LCD bigger so that you can see it, which comes with being heavier and requiring more power, you make it smaller.
And when it's smaller, requires less power. It uses up less space. It's much lighter.
And you just bring the video closer to your eyes natively by putting my glasses. It doesn't require you to hold it.
Your hands are free to type on the keyboard and much more effective way of doing mobile computing of transferring the output of the device to the user.
So that's the basic idea behind the project. One of those two things to happen. Okay, so we're going to try to make that happen.
So how do we do our mobile mobile? Well, before I get into that, I want to go into a couple other alternative designs that I didn't end up going with.
But our viable alternatives and kind of interesting alternative way of doing things. When I started this project, I of course looked out to see if anybody else had done something like this.
And somebody had. And to be honest, what they did, this guy is very impressive and it's much more impressive than what I end up doing.
This guy is a real real hacker. He designed his own mobile computing device, kind of the perfection of what I would have liked to done is he met that goal a little bit closer to what I envisioned at first.
But it turns out that his device in the end wasn't practically usable from day to day, but he put a lot more work into it and he didn't much better job and put a lot more smart into it.
So what he did was he bought these commercial video glasses. The same ones that I ended up using from my project, same brand, same model, everything.
But then instead of using any off the shelf components after that, he designed his own circuit board and he took this TI chip that has Bluetooth and wireless Wi-Fi on it and mounted it to the top of these video glasses and wired everything up and made it work.
And so he has a Linux system with this TIOMAP3530 processor and with Wi-Fi Bluetooth, so you could use your keyboard over Bluetooth.
You can get your net connectivity over Wi-Fi and then you have your display with the video glasses.
And he calls it the gum stick over a Peter on module device. So it's pretty cool. It's got embedded Linux. He's got screenshots of Firefox running on it and he wrote a little program to do a 3D room that uses those little accelerometers.
He's embedded into the video glasses. These video glasses are originally intended for gaming. So he's got a little wire screen, 3D stereoscopic room that also uses these head tracking capabilities.
I haven't tried that yet. It should work on my system. But he hacked into the analysis software. There's a little chip in line and there's a VGA output or input into the glasses and there's a little chip in there and he kind of figured out what that does and how the rest of the system works.
And so it was very impressive. He got it to work. He made his own circuit board to put the extra circuits in there for the processor and everything.
But in the end he said in practice it doesn't really work because you have to do a lot of engineering to get these types of things power efficient.
And so it only works for a few minutes and you maybe get overheating of your lithium battery. He says here and I straining.
It might not be so safe to have this Wi-Fi antenna sitting. He puts it right on top of the glasses.
See the Wi-Fi and the Bluetooth and all this stuff. And right in front of your eyes which I don't know if it's a safety concern for the RF or maybe just the heat but pretty cool project anyways.
So that was one way of going about it. The other way that I considered doing was using this Pandora system plus the video glasses.
So I don't know if you heard seeing this Pandora system it just came out recently. They had run their first run in the beginning of the year and they had completely sold out.
And I think they've gone through the second batch of processes but this is an open source community designed gaming handheld gaming system.
And I think it has actually the same processor that this other guy used for his custom headset design. But this thing is really really neat.
It's extremely impressive. It's got a little 40 keyboard, all different types of gaming controllers. And it can open GL 2.0, it can do Wi-Fi and Bluetooth and it can act as a USB host.
And it has a little LCD screen. But you could use that as your computer and it also has composite video out.
The specific model of glasses that I got don't have composite video in but you could get some that were even cheaper out there that I consider getting.
There were around $200 and you could use that. You could have your full size keyboard connected with Bluetooth.
And then plus you'd have a neat little computer compact computer on the side. So that was be using the Pandora.
That would be a different alternative but for the specific things I wanted to use it for which were more hacking and maybe some 3D medical imaging stuff.
I decided to go this other route. If you're more into gaming maybe the Pandora would be a better option for you.
So the route I ended up going was full size keyboard for the computer. I went with a mini ITX form factor motherboard.
And then inside the computer you've got an atom dual core atom processor and the Nvidia Ion GPU.
So that's the basis of it. And the Ion is the portable low power but decent performance discreet graphics GPU.
So you can get the 3D capabilities, the stairs got the capabilities with the Nvidia GPU and you know you can maybe play some older games on it.
Maybe not the newest and greatest at the fastest resolutions. I haven't really tried. I don't do that much gaming.
You might be able to do actually some of the higher level games because the resolution is not that high.
The native resolution of the video classes is 640x480. So that's the idea.
So I have all the details of what goes into the system on web page pictures and descriptions and prices.
And so I'll put that link in the show notes but I'll just kind of go through what I did is I just selectively picked out components and you may be interested in these components and how they performed.
And so we'll just kind of go through that briefly and I'll kind of give you a background on how these things turned out.
So going over this web page here I give an overview of the mobility, the computing, horsepower and the usability of the device.
So in terms of mobility it is a little bit bigger than what I wouldn't have liked but of course you know I'm using off the shelf components for stuff that wasn't intended for.
It's actually decent size. I got a really big, really nice keyboard, wireless keyboard and mouse so that takes up some space.
And then the Mini-I-TX is decent size. There are smaller motherboards out there, there are pico and nano I think.
Form factor motherboards which are smaller but I couldn't find any of those that had the Nvidia Ion graphics, GPU graphics chip in it.
So I ended up you know going with this little more powerful system and that and actually the case I got for the motherboard there is actually one of the heavier things.
So I don't really know how heavy it is, maybe 10 pounds altogether.
The video glass is actually quite light and small and so let's take up much space. But it fits in my backpack.
So if I want to go somewhere I can throw it in my backpack because plenty of room to spare for laptop or books or clothes or food or whatever else I want.
So that works out okay.
So that's kind of on the mobility side. The other thing on the mobility is battery life so it does have a battery and you can go and use it on a boat.
Use it with a Wi-Fi in the coffee shop if you wanted to. That was kind of interesting.
The battery life maybe could be much better but the motherboard isn't designed to be something mobile like in a laptop.
So I think that's a big knock against the battery life but what I'm going to do is it does still work.
And I got a power usage device to kill a lot, brand device to measure the power. You plug it into the power.
And I measure the power and it's pretty constant. It doesn't vary that much.
In the lower end if you're idling it's around 17 to 18 watts and on the higher end if you're compiling something.
The max you're going to use is about 24 watts. I guess the newer atoms maybe have better power consumption and the Nvidia Ion graphics chip is going to use a little bit more power.
You're looking at around 20 watts for the power consumption.
And the battery which I'll talk a little bit more about later has a capacity of 100 watt hours.
So you get about on paper you get 5 hours and in real life you actually get about 5 hour battery life.
Which is decent. I'm happy with that. The battery capacity is actually quite high.
And so in other cases you would get much more out of it but you know 5 hours that's reasonable.
The computer plus horsepower again it's a dual core atom and 330 capable of 4 threads at 1.6 gigahertz.
And the graphics chip is the Nvidia 9400N so-called Ion graphics chip.
And it also can do CUDA if you're into CUDA programming the GPGPU stuff.
My original stack for the memory was 2 gigabytes of 800 megahertz DDR2 RAM and I also put an SSD hard drive in there.
Because it's low on power and light and small.
In terms of usability you have the video glasses which I'll talk a little bit more about later.
And the keyboard is pretty awesome. For any mobile computing you can't really beat it.
And it also comes with a wireless mouse which is pretty decent.
So into the specifics of the components.
I did buy the carrying case which was very expensive but the video glasses themselves were almost $300 so I didn't want to break them.
And I knew I was going to be carrying this thing around.
So I bought it anyways. Especially designed. They have little pockets in them which is nice to hold the cabling and a flash drive or whatever.
But, you know, this is almost $40 for that thing which is ridiculous.
But, you know, you don't want it to break. So I got that.
The RAM, the stuff that I originally bought was Corsair RAM. This is very nice RAM.
The 800 megahertz DDR2. I have read different things about how much power RAM takes up.
So I first thought, well, two gigabytes that's going to be plenty for anything.
And it turns out it was not quite enough when working with Windows which I'll talk a little bit later.
So actually, I ended up putting in two. It only had a slot for two memory chips.
And I ended up putting some memory that I had that was old from a computer that this motherboard went down.
So I got four gigabytes of DDR2 and they're now and that works fine.
Something to keep in mind is that the graphics chip uses RAM and it has its own dedicated memory.
So I have it set on two hundred and fifty six megabytes but that's something to keep in mind.
The enclosure I got was very nice. It's a metal black. It looks nice. It's easier to take apart.
It's got it's fanless. It's got a nice front end that comes apart. It's got a power button on it.
And then you can store USB. It's got two USB ports in there that are enclosed and hidden.
So you can put a Bluetooth USB in there or a USB hard USB drive in it.
So that works very nice. It was the only one that looking around with this motherboard that was tall enough
because it has the dual core atom. It has a tall heat sink and fan.
So it's be careful with that. It has great ventilation. It's very robust. It's pricey fifty bucks, which is a lot.
It's very nice. The downside is it's somewhat heavy, which for our purposes isn't that great.
But that's what I went with. It's a M350 mini ITX fanless enclosure.
The keyboard I went with was the Microsoft Wireless Comfort Desktop 5,000 keyboard and mouse.
And I have used the Microsoft ergonomic keyboard in the past.
The natural E-Lite Pro and the natural Microsoft natural keyboards.
And I really like them. Just the slanted keyboards.
And they just have a fantastic feel to them.
The natural E-Lite, the newer one, the black one.
I've had three or four of those and those are very nice and they're much less expensive.
And some of these ergonomic keyboards out there that you'll see.
But they don't seem to be that robust. I use them a lot.
I do programming with them, but some keys will just give out after some points.
So I think I put enough money into those.
So I went with this wireless version of the Microsoft ergonomic.
It's a little bit smaller. It has media.
I think it's intended for more like a media center or something with your TV.
Windows media center or something.
But it's got media center keyboards on the top.
And it would work nice for that.
But it's very nice. It's kind of ergonomic slant to it.
It's got a full number pad, full arrow keys.
The one thing that it lacks is full size, function keys, F1 to F12.
And if you're a good user, the escape keys kind of small and out of place.
So I use them a lot.
I ended up retraining myself using control left brackets instead of escape,
which is actually nicer in the long run for all purposes.
But that's just something to be aware of.
And so it's wireless. It comes with a nice wireless mouse that tracks some kind of blue laser.
It does pretty well.
It's about 70 bucks.
It's thin. It's a little profile.
It's pretty light for what it is.
And the next thing is hard drives.
This is a solid state. Hard drives are coming out.
I got this one for $100 at the time.
They're dropping in prices now.
But pretty cool.
It's only 30 gigabytes.
They say to two, two and a half inch.
Very low power consumption.
Shock resistance, which is nice.
And the performance is fantastic.
You know, it's probably one of the best performing, relatively performing parts in the system.
It's a little bit higher than everything else.
Maybe you don't need something that high.
It has a heavy duty case.
But in this case, we don't necessarily want that because it's a little more heavier than I think it needs to be.
So I like to throw.
I like it. It's an OCG agility.
Yeah, it's nice. If you're looking for something on the desktop side, that's recommended.
I've had good experiences with it.
Another thing for storage is this Sandisk Cruiser micro.
It's just a USB flash drive.
And I got that for cheaper storage.
16 gigabyte one.
And it goes in the front bay of this enclosure, you know, concealed.
It's on my permanent setting inside there, which is pretty nice.
So I use that.
You can definitely tell the difference in terms of performance between the solid state drive and the USB drive, but it's much cheaper.
And for the batteries, this is pretty interesting.
And this is something I get you sort of for charging.
You know, when you're on the road, you want to charge a music player or you want to charge your phone or you want to use it on that.
A network or a laptop.
This is, you can use it for all these things.
They're relatively expensive, but it's a high quality thing that can boost the power on all your devices.
It comes with a cable, with adapters, a bunch of adapters on the end for different laptops, and also has the USB out on it.
And this is the Techion brand MP3450 My Power.
We need a rechargeable battery.
And what you can do is you can get one of them, or, and then you can get an extender, which just sits on the bottom, and it doesn't have the interface.
But it just sticks as to the number of watt hours on it.
So one of them is 50 watt hours, and you put the extended battery on it, and it's another 50 watt hours.
So the base unit is $110, and the extended unit is $80, so pretty expensive, but pretty neat.
You can use it for a lot of things.
It weighs about two pounds altogether.
You can configure the voltage, so it outputs many different voltages.
They suggest, and I found that it works to low-ball the voltage a little bit, put a little bit lower than what the laptop or the mini-ITX says the voltage input needs to be.
And then it will last a little bit longer. It won't charge your laptop. It will just power it.
And the video glass is...
The video glass is okay.
These are the music's I wear VR920 video glasses.
I look for these, and they discontinued making them, I think.
And the replacements, the effective replacements, they haven't started putting out yet from this music company.
They're kind of the big companies, not a lot of companies that make these things.
But it does have 640 by 480 resolution. They're dual LCDs.
And the manufacturer of the actual LCD is a military company.
And if you look at, like on this, all the Express, this trading website, most everybody uses this high-quality set of dual displays.
They don't actually manufacture the LCD displays. They buy them, and they just make the rest of the unit, which is intended for gaming.
That's kind of the standard. They're coming out with a design that looks more natural, not so goofy looking.
That's a Robocopish.
And it kind of looks like slung glasses.
But it'll be interesting to see. It's probably going to be a lot more expensive when they come out originally.
When I got these, they were on sale.
For less than $300, I put $300 here. I don't remember the exact price, but it was less than $300.
And what they are supposed to be.
And, you know, they're pretty cool. They're not everything, but you want them to be, of course, but they do work pretty well.
You can use it for three or four hours. I don't think you want to do it all day with these things.
But the color is pretty good.
The one knock I have against them is that you cannot adjust the distance between the glasses to, you know, different head sizes.
They have a really nice nose rest on them that are adjustable, and you can do a lot with that to position them properly.
But my head's a little bit bigger than maybe what the standard head is.
And you get shadows from the sides of the glasses.
When I first got these, I returned them because I thought there was some kind of defect in the lens.
But I think it was just their size, not exactly perfect, and they're so close to your face like that, it's really important.
So that's kind of a design flaw that hopefully the effects of the next generation, I don't know, maybe not.
But the native is 64 by 480, downscales from 1024 by 768.
They have a chip in there that will do that for you. It does do that pretty well, 800 by 600.
If you're trying to read some natural 12.5s at 1024 by 768, you're kind of straining to do that.
But for other things, it does the NIA thing pretty well, and downscales pretty well.
I usually just run it at 800 by 600 or 648 by 480.
And so it's got an analog BJA input.
It uses a little power, 3.2 ounces, 60 hertz refresh rate, 24 bit color.
They say it's an equivalent 62 inch screen due to 9 feet.
I don't know, it's relatively big, it's not huge in front of you.
It's not all in company same, but it's okay.
It's built in earbuds and a microphone, and it was less than $300 at the time.
I think they just continued it, so you might have a hard time finding it, but it's a pretty cool little unit.
It, after a while, does get a little heavy on the eyes, and it gets a little hot, but it's okay.
It's powered by USB, and the audio goes through USB 2.
The audio ear plugs, about ear buds, they're detachable if you don't want to use them too.
That's pretty cool.
They also bought the V6 light shield that you can get for it, which should come with it.
You know, it will come out and be reasonable, but I bought it extra, it's a little rubber piece that blocks out more of the light,
which is important to keep you not distracted and to improve the quality of the light.
It's nice to just use it at night too, and it's dark out, and you can turn the lights down in the room.
You don't have to deal with the ambient light that's about 20, less than 20 bucks.
The motherboard, okay.
The motherboard, I told you, got this Zotac Ion mini-i-tech TX motherboard, and it's nice for a mini-i-tech motherboard.
It's pretty nice.
It has the Intel Atom N330 dual-core CPU.
I don't know if they have better stuff now, but the NVIDIA Ion, which I think is still a pretty popular thing.
CUDA and OpenCL, capable.
It has some nice outputs if you want to use it for a media extra system too.
It's got DVIO, VGA out, HDMI out, with audio.
It can do, say, 2 and E-SATA.
It has an integrated Wi-Fi 802-11 BGN, which is a big solid for me,
for what I wanted to choose for, of course.
It has the Wi-Fi, which plugs into a PCI.
I don't know what those are, mini-PCI.
Express, slot, or something like that.
But then it has the port made for it on the back, and the little antenna that comes with it,
which is nice, and I had to put that in myself.
It works pretty well.
It has 6 USB ports.
It's always good.
Do you get a bit of LAN, which is always good?
And the other nice thing about it is it has an onboard DC-DC power supply.
So the power supply is inside the case, like some systems.
It has an external transformer, kind of like your laptop, or so.
You can use that and plug it into the wall and just use it.
It works great, or you can remove it and plug in the battery that we had before.
So pretty cool.
It comes with this 90 watt external power supply, but that's more than the system takes, obviously.
It has a nice large heat sink, but unlike some of the other atom ones with a dual core atom,
and it still needs the fan.
I looked a lot into trying to use it without the fan, but according to reviews,
it's just going to get too hot.
That's not going to work.
So the fan is a little noisy.
Not too bad, because it's kind of small, but you still need it.
And so it's pretty expensive, like a $180 box.
I hope to have it for a while.
It's pretty nice.
There's a good review, including CPU and power usage profiles.
On this mini-itx.com website.
So that's pretty cool.
So that's all the hardware.
What did I put on it?
For operating systems, I used Linux on there, and then Windows 7.
I had to do the Windows 7, so I could try out the games, of course.
With the stereosopic grains, the only drivers for Windows 7, and for a few games.
So the arch, it works great.
It's fantastic.
It's super fast.
It boots super fast.
I have the kernel.config for 2632.
It's linked on the webpage.
I'll have it in the show notes.
If you're interested in that.
And I also found this guy from Germany.
He must be.
That wrote his own stereosopic driver and head tracking driver for this V6 920,
which is pretty cool.
And I tried it out.
It didn't work for me.
I don't know if it was, you know, he said he was using one of these
quadro, one of these professional Nvidia graphics cards that
aren't tended for CAD and this type of thing.
And have good stereosopic support built into them.
I don't know if it was because the ION processor, or when I tried this,
I used, this is just recently, and I used the new version of the Nvidia driver.
Which are the, I think, the 200 series.
Maybe they dropped the stereosopic support.
I'm not sure what was going on, maybe.
But it didn't work for me.
Another did his head tracking thing.
So maybe I just had this configured it.
I'm not sure.
And he also has a patch for employer to do stereoscopic video.
And that looks pretty cool.
I haven't tried that yet.
I put, I split that 30 gig SSD into three 10 gigs.
Partitions, 10 gig for the RIT Linux, a 10 gig home.
And then 10 or 11 gig for the Windows.
And that's plenty for the Linux.
It turns out it was problems with the Windows.
I, luckily, I still, I put the Windows on first.
And I just barely had enough room.
It used up all the space just for the fresh install.
The 10 gig advice.
So I had to look up all these different things to cut it down a bit.
So I could still install stuff.
And there's just a big pain in the butt.
And getting Windows on the first five was a big pain in the butt.
Because I didn't have another Windows system.
And this, the install media is only the ISO.
Right?
So I need to do this from USB.
There's no optical drive on this thing.
So what do you do?
They have a USB, they didn't come out originally with a USB installer from it.
You had to look up in forms to make it work.
Well, they didn't have all the programs that were needed.
And what they did have was 32 bit.
So I couldn't get it working on Wi-Fi or with VirtualBox.
Of course, because VirtualBox doesn't have a very good USB support.
So what do you do?
I eventually find a Windows system and get that working.
That was a pain in the butt.
Trimming it, trying to turn it down.
Turning off system restore all these other tricks I have listed.
I was a pain in the butt.
And then memory usage.
You know, the Linux is just a couple of gigs for the hard drive uses.
And then when you fire it up, it's only like 100 megabytes when you start off.
Into a full graphical user interface.
You have plenty of use of those two gigs of RAM.
But Windows starts up just without even a file browser open.
You're looking at over a gig of RAM usage with this Windows 7, which is terrible, right?
And just running one application, one of these really simple games,
it would run out of memory sometimes.
So I looked through all the tricks to whittle down the RAM.
But I ended up putting the breaking down and putting those four gigs in there.
Now I haven't had many problems, but pretty bad, pretty bad.
Like I said, I don't do much gaming because I don't have a lot of time for it.
But the gaming I have done is pretty cool.
Pretty fun to do the stereostopic stuff.
The game that I played was Portal, the original Portal, which is really, really fun.
Ah, that's just a really great, great game.
If you haven't played it, play it to the end, the ending is fantastic.
But I did that with...
So the other thing I tried here was to do Valve Steam.
Clients I bought the games through Valve Steam, which is where you download the games
and you have an account and then you can re-down them, download them anywhere.
You pay for them online, you don't get any physical media.
And Windows starting up is actually pretty slow.
Commerterlinks, and that Steve Pine is annoyingly slow too on the system with the atom.
But what I tried to do was have it so that I could run Steam on Linux too and on Windows.
So you set it up so that the games...
So I tried to do the games together.
So how I tried to do that was for that USB drive, the 16GB USB drive.
I put the partition, a partition, as XT2.
So that, and then you can download a driver for Windows and a third-party driver
so Windows can read the XT2.
Seems like a good idea.
It does work for Windows.
The ironic thing is that the Steam didn't work under Linux running off the XT2.
I'm not sure why, but I didn't try to get that to support to get that working.
So that was running through wine.
Supposedly, sometimes this year, this was to come out with a native Linux climate for Steam,
which would be pretty cool, and I'll try it again.
That looks pretty exciting.
So that was pretty fun there.
I think that's it.
So, thanks for listening.
I'm tired of talking.
I got to turn the air conditioning back on.
It's really hot.
Have a good day.
Thank you for listening to Hack with Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Pharaoh.net.
So head on over to CARO.NIC for all of your time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
