Episode: 477
Title: HPR0477: Uber Leet Hacker Force Radio
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0477/hpr0477.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 21:19:27

---

music
it
The time is 3.30 a.m. You're listening to W-A-R-T word radio, which means it's time
once again for Uberleet Hacker Forest Radio.
The time is 3.30 a.m. You're listening to W-A-R-T word radio.
The time is 3.30 a.m. You're listening to W-A-R-T word radio.
You're listening to W-A-R-T word radio.
Welcome to our show. My name is Sig Flop. This is episode one of the Uberleet Hacker Forest Radio.
Now what this is is a
Uberleet Hacker Forest Radio.
Welcome to our show.
My name is Sig Flop. This is episode one of the Uberleet Hacker Forest Radio.
Now what this is is a sort of a group right of sorts.
It turns out that I'm not very good at releasing things.
So I decided to start a group and everything I release is
far as things that are non-demo related will be under the Uberleet Hacker Forest.
So this is our first release.
This is a Patch 2 GNU screen.
And you can download the updated screen archive at
http colon slash slash
h-o-b-o-n-e-s dot d-o-g-s-o-f-t dot
t-slash s-c-r-e-n-dash 4.0.3-u-l-h-f dot 1.
t-a-r dot g-z.
And that will be in the show notes.
What this is is a helpful patch to screen which basically changes it.
So it uses the X windows clipboard instead of its internal clipboard.
Now what you want to do is untardis and run configure with the argument dash dash
enable dash x clipboard then run make and make install.
And then after that you can run screen and you have two new arguments.
You have dash y followed by display name.
This is to use an alternate x display aside from colon zero your default display.
And also the important argument which is dash capital y which turns on
x clipboard usage.
Now if you're so inclined you can apply this patch yourself.
You can download it at http colon slash slash
h-o-b-o-n-e-s dot d-o-g-s-o-f-t dot n-e-t slash u-l-h-f
underscore patch one dot t-g-z.
And what you want to do is untar that and also grab the version 4.0.3 of
a cano screen from the cano main site the date on this distribution the
tarball that is is august 7th 2008.
What you want to do is there's a diff file in that in the patch that you
downloaded.
And what you want to do is go to the go to good use screens distribution
root directory and type patch space dash p1 space less than space and then the path
of that diff file.
And this will go ahead and patch all the files hopefully.
And after that you want to regenerate configure you can do that just by
typing auto conf.
I use auto conf 2.61 you can use other versions but I find that works and they have
kind of like a weird backwards compatible incompatibility thing with
versions.
So I use auto conf dash 2.61.
I'm sorry 2.61.
After that you can configure make make installs usual just remember to run
configure space space dash dash enable dash x clipboard to make use of it.
And of course you want to again run it with screen dash y to actually use the
clipboard the x clipboard.
So I hope you enjoy that release and we look forward to releasing other things
for you.
As sort of a housekeeping note we are looking for someone to donate web hosting
space.
So we can have a solid place to put these files as well as have a website for the
Uber Lead Hacker Force.
And for upcoming releases if anyone wants to contribute with documentation or
anything like that they certainly may and become a member of the Uber Lead Hacker
Force.
So next release probably will be a fun one.
I'm not going to tell you what it is yet but it's coming up.
So take care and we look forward to meeting you again.
Bye bye.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net so head on over to C-A-R-O dot N-C for all of the
things.
Thank you.
