Episode: 391
Title: HPR0391: TiT Radio 003 - Potluck Roundtable
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0391/hpr0391.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 19:42:05

---

.
And while we try to talk 330 off the train track, here's another great song
by Katarmian, which I'll insist on.
But before we get into it, don't forget there'll be no official show on July 4th.
Anyway, this one's called Big Mouth.
Take it away, Katarmian.
Bloody L330!
.
Look at the way we are.
Things are the way they are.
You sit and say to yourself,
Why can't things be the way they used to be?
Well, I've got this for you.
I ain't no affixes above you.
I'll play this dude out.
If you don't move out,
If you don't know where to eat,
You can't eat your fake mouth shut.
Oh, but I've been out to tell you the things you could.
And now you're so surprised.
Look how you're so surprised.
You did it to yourself again.
And now you're so surprised.
Look how you're so surprised.
You did it to yourself again.
You did it to yourself again.
Again, now, now.
I don't know.
You're so surprised.
Look how you're so surprised.
Look how you're so surprised.
Look how you're so surprised.
Look how you're so surprised.
Look how you're so surprised.
Look at this.
Look at this.
Look at this.
Look at this.
You got your soul's a prize and you didn't see yourself again
You didn't see yourself again
Again, now I think I feel better now
Remember what was meant
I think I feel better now
But then you chew me out
Now can't talk like a man
That's a lot to me
But I was confounded once doesn't it?
You're not going to hurt me
In the whole day, the mow
You're not going to hurt me
Then I'm wanting down
What would you say you didn't know what you did?
Why would you say either know what you did?
Why would you say either know what you did?
jism
doing
from
there comes the train
you have to track
three thirty no
I can pick up Wi-Fi.
Found a hotline.
We're going to miss 330.
That was gay.
Here lies 330.
Let's get to sing Rowan.
It's 1117pm, Central Standard Time.
June 27th, 2009.
And once again, it's time for Tit Radio.
Rental guidance is suggested.
All right, welcome hackers, crackers, and scriptkitties.
This is Tit Radio.
The only show in Hacker Public Radio with super cow powers.
Let's meet our round table of tits.
Art V61.
How you doing, everybody?
Asmeth.
You should have separated us.
Nobody will tell the difference.
Was that Art or Asmeth?
Haha.
Class 2.
Hello, everyone.
She's Australian.
And that Peter J. 64.
Hey, how's it going?
330.
Ella.
Zoke.
Hey, and is the Mrs. there with you?
I'm here, but I'm just an innocent bystander tonight.
Okay.
She didn't say how it worked.
Oh, no.
Just a quick announcement from the IRC earlier today.
This is a web mentioned that there's a project called Basket Note Pads.
I don't know if you guys know about it.
It's a note-taking app.
Well, they need some developers.
Or this project may vanish.
Which app is this?
It's called Basket Note Pads.
I'll throw it in the air.
Oh, yeah, I heard of that.
It's a KD one, isn't it?
I heard a lot of you think about it.
Yeah, they need some developers' pad.
Or it's going to vanish.
What is it written in, do you know?
I'm not sure.
I just got the link.
That's it.
Yeah.
But I guess they're still using the old QT, where it's compatible with KD 3.5, so they need to convert it to KD4.
But I'm not sure if the lead developer is going to give it up, or he just needs help.
I'm not sure.
But if anybody's interested, check it out.
All right.
Who wants to kick it off?
Didn't you forget 330?
No.
Did you see him?
He was right after you.
Yeah.
Oh, sorry.
You missed you.
I was going to say, we've got to find out who the sheriff is.
Oh, that's right.
You know what?
Maybe I should just be the sheriff.
Because I have a feeling there's going to be like the palm against off you, and it's just going to be a feud all night.
Yeah, I'll be the sheriff.
I don't trust you guys.
Oh, come on.
You don't trust the evil one.
Well, plus, I found out that the wheel that I spent is rigged.
It's not, is it?
Yeah.
It's rigged.
BST Bob, he's going to put it together.
I think the guy's spinning it is rigged.
All right.
You want to start off?
Oh, sure.
Why not?
I have.
Today, actually the other day, I downloaded a couple of live CDs.
I was kind of searching around for more things to put on my computers.
And I came across Mepis anti-X.
It's called.
It's got flux box on it.
It's got, I mean, they build this thing as something that a VISTA or an XP user could fall right into.
I mean, it really is a neat, neat distro.
I would say it's better than neat.
I mean, it runs on flux box.
It has a beautiful screen due to when you load it up.
And it's like 468 meters BD.
It's quite a nice, it's got IRSSI on it with screen.
And everything built right in it.
How do you spell that so I can find it?
It's Mepis anti-X.
A-N-T-I-X.
You get it to a distro watch.
You'll find it in there.
But it's also for older hardware.
They build it as because of the flux box.
And some of the other things that are on it, I mean, they say it'll work with a 64 mega RAM.
I mean, it's really, I guess it's quite a, quite a, it'll work on a Pentium 2.
This is the way they're building it.
Plus, it also has support for web tams and media players, different media players in it.
I'm actually thinking about trying this on my tripoli.
So this thing is going around on a P2266.
May hurts with what a mere 64 mega RAM.
Yeah, that's what they're saying.
That's not only what they're saying.
I mean, I have it running on a Pentium 2.700.
But the only thing they do say that it doesn't work on K5 and K6 AMD processors.
I don't know why, but it's a...
Did you just...
Yeah.
You know what it is for?
You...
Because I just read that.
It's running to set up.
And I think, right?
To see here.
Yeah, 2.6, 2.7.
Turn off.
And what else?
That's a lot of...
I mean, I can't believe the applications that are becoming this out of the box.
It's fascinating to see what's in this thing.
As far as, you don't think you get...
I mean, it's...
Don't send it if you want to use...
I mean, find...
You don't have to put any of this stuff in it.
It's got the RSS Adam Reader setup for a bit torrent.
I'm really unsurprised at the things that it has in it.
Hey, Art.
Now, what was the size of the ISO download, do you remember?
It was 468 meg.
Nice.
But otherwise, I think people should take a look...
This might be a good distro for people to put on somebody's computer to really let them check out Linux.
Because it's, you know, with a good cross between Windows and Linux, I think it's...
I mean, I've seen many, many distros that I went through.
You know, I'm still going through, I should say.
But this one looks sharp.
Anybody got any comments?
What about, like, multimedia support and stuff like that out of the box?
Like, if I just gave this to a friend, could they pop it in their computer and...
Kind of feel like they're imputing, like, normal or do I need to sit there and install it...
And install it with them and install in V3 before it got rid of the good stuff?
No, but it looks...
I mean, it's got DVD players poured in it.
It's got also...
It's got a stream tuner in it.
It's got grip in it.
You know, I mean, it's all set up, you know, right out of the box.
I'm really...
I mean, I've only played with this thing for a little bit, but I'm pretty impressed with it.
Of course, I'm, you know, new.
I mean, you've even got peripherals for a scanner.
You know what I mean?
Within the program.
Wow, nice.
Yeah, I really...
I'm going to try to sum my trip away.
I'm going to give it a room.
Because I got a minute running off the ECHI card right now, and I'm going to wipe that,
but it's on it.
And see how it runs.
Because I like it.
I mean, it's nice...
It's a nice layout right out of the box.
Like I said, you don't have to do anything as far as configuring it.
I don't believe.
Yeah, I don't know if it was my connection or yours, but you were cutting out.
But what desktop did you say was default?
Fluxbox.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
And it's running Fluxbox.
You can also...
Why was looking at the Wiki page and showing ICE window manager?
It's got...
I mean, you can...
Yeah, you can run ICE WM, yeah.
That comes with Fluxbox 1.1.
That's the latest.
And apparently...
They talk about this guy, Andy, who was a Brit living and working
last 19 years in Greece.
I don't know.
That's a longicky year or something.
It must be the second largest city in Greece.
And basically, this thing is remastered mapus.
Well, it looks nice.
Screenshots.
I guess that it's...
Yeah, it's really...
I'm surprised.
What's your main buy?
It includes this Shidak-based meta installer.
Does anyone know what...
Is that something that would damage Shidak's?
Or something?
Yeah, as far as I know, Netflix uses a hybrid of both Ubuntu and Debian repositories
for packet management.
And so, I don't know exactly what the meta installer is.
I mean, that's probably why it mentions that problem
for the meta packages and things like that.
I would imagine from Shidak's.
I don't know.
Well, let us know on two weeks how it works.
Absolutely.
Like I said, in anybody...
You know, I want to throw something that's on pride.
It's definitely one for looking.
Anything else before we move on?
Okay, that's it for me.
All right, Peter.
Peter G.
No, that's about it for me.
Peter G.
It sounds so official.
Just to clarify something from our previous tip was that...
I was talking about the Deloitte board
and I said about the FQs.
Well, as it turned out, I went into the BIOS and you can change that.
So, the F1 F12Q becomes the number one key
and then you have to hit the function keys to use the multimedia keys,
which is a hell of a lot better.
So, I just thought I'd better clarify that.
Now, also, I mentioned Celestia.
And I was in the chat and Cafe Ninja just listened to the episode
and he said, hey, Peter, you talked about Celestia.
I have you heard of Stellarium.
And I actually had used Stellarium quite a few years ago.
But I decided to go and revisit it and have a look at it.
And what I saw I was really happy with.
Now, Stellarium is an actual planetarium.
When you install it, you're going to get something in the range of
over 600,000 stars.
There's extra catalogs available,
which you'll get you after over 210 million stars,
which I would imagine would take most people's lifetime to go and look at.
And actually, if you did the match, you probably couldn't look at all that.
But, I mean, it's got a few features that probably set it apart
from a normal, like case stars.
Like, when you look at case stars and this thing,
it's a completely different kettle of fish.
It's so polished.
If you say, take a look at Jupiter,
then you can hit your page in key,
where you'll actually zoom right at Jupiter,
where you'll see, and I take it,
it's using the same test gemapses Celestia used,
where you'll get, you know, a really good close-up view of what Jupiter
or Saturn and all of them look like through the Hubble Space Telescope.
It's also supports things like,
if you do have a projector and you're rich enough to own your own dome,
you can actually do a spheric mirror projection,
and you can, you know, show this up on your, on your dome,
and it's just like going to a real planetarium.
Now, I also alluded to the fact that I thought Celestia,
you could use the two-line element starter that you can get
from all these heaps of mine, where you can go and get them,
where it will then map in real-time satellites, etc.
Now, I'm still not sure whether Celestia did that,
but Stellarium definitely does it.
So you can go and get all these satellite plug-ins,
and the TLE data, and you can have,
as you're looking in the night sky,
you can have, you know, it'll show you where a satellite's going to zoom overhead.
The other thing with it, too, is if you like me,
and you sort of run out of things to look at,
then you just really hit the F3K,
which is a search function, and you can just type a letter,
like, so, well, let's talk about Beetlejuice,
which I don't know if everyone's heard,
but Beetlejuice is a star.
I'm not even quite sure how far it goes, but,
yeah, anyway, from what I understand,
with that star, that I won't say the name again,
it's something like the 8th brightest star in the night sky,
and it has actually shrunk around 15% in the last 15 years,
and astronomers are getting really excited
because they think this actually could be about to go supernova.
But anyway, it's something like that, you know,
you hear things like this on the news.
What do you do?
You jump on Stellarium, and you go straight,
and you look it up.
Anyway, I've had a lot of fun playing with it,
and anyone who's interested in that sort of stuff
should go and grab it.
It's available in most of the refaers I think you'll find.
It's really good fun.
Yeah, that one thing you told me about it,
I traded on Fedora,
and it ran pretty good with that 3100 Intel chipset.
Yeah, it's not, I don't think,
it does use OpenGL, I think,
but it's certainly not a really intensive application.
I'm sure that if you can run Compass Fusion,
you'll have absolutely no trouble running this.
Peter, did you say there's a big difference between that
and Celestia?
Well, Celestia, how would you describe it?
Celestia is more, I wouldn't call Celestia a planetarium,
and we'll actually, they say it, it's a space simulation,
where as Stellarium is what you'd call a planetarium,
where all that's doing a show and you points of what.
You can actually sit on your friend with your laptop,
and you can look out of the stars,
or you can look on your computer screen,
and as long as you tell it,
you'll face in the exact same direction,
you'll see exactly what's in the night sky,
and what you can do then is just click on this point of light,
and it will tell you exactly the name of it.
How far it is from Earth,
what magnitude of light amplification of these,
how far away it is, all that sort of stuff.
So what it does, it's virtually telling you what you're looking at,
but also if you're looking at all the constellations and stuff like that,
it'll map them out for you so you can say,
okay, there's, I don't know, go to school,
or whatever, it's agitarious,
anything like that that happens to be visible
at that particular time of night.
It's a real good thing.
I think that's what you've got to use that.
Yes, sorry about it.
Why they don't want to go out and look at the stars anymore?
Well, in actual fact,
once you're sitting inside and looking to your bloody laptop,
it's a bit disappointing when you go outside
because you get a much better view on your laptop.
Like, if you're doing stores,
it's only when you can turn, right?
Yeah, you can spin around,
you can just point anywhere,
and you can get rid of the horizon,
like that stars that you couldn't obviously see
because they would be under your feet if you'd like.
But the beauty of it is to sit out there
with your kids on the veranda.
And, you know, look,
you can quite frequently tell Mars
because it's quite orange.
And, you know, you can put it out to your kids
and then you can jump on our Stellarium
and zoom right in and show them a good feature
of what it looks like.
And then fire up Celestia as well.
The beautiful application when you look at the screen shots of it.
Where'd you hear this episode?
What do you need to run it, Peter?
Well, this particular one, like I said,
five years to many years ago,
but I forgot all about it.
And Cafe Ninja reminded me about it
because he heard me talking about Celestia last week.
Now, I can't remember if I heard about Celestia
because I've used that
as long as I've used Linux.
Yeah, it's quite nice.
I like the looks of it.
Yeah.
I just posted three screen shots in there
that I used was playing with the other night.
I mean, you only have to have
just the slightest bit of interest in astronomy.
And you can waste hours on those two programs.
The only other thing,
one day I'd like to, like, buy a telescope
and I motorise one.
And now, this says that you can hook a telescope up to it.
Now, K-stars, when I looked at it,
you'd go in and in the configuration in K-stars,
it tells you,
at least a lot of telescopes that it supports.
So when you plug one in,
then you just go to a list and say,
okay, this is the one I bought.
But in the greed me,
it says it does support telescopes.
But I couldn't find anywhere
in any configuration anything about telescopes,
which makes me wonder,
well, maybe that's only in the Windows version.
Or so if you're going to go and buy a telescope
and to use with Delary,
I would certainly investigate that a fair bit more.
Yeah, that sounds like when you go to the Planetarium here,
like I was talking to you on IRC about,
and you sit in a Planetarium
and you look up in that dome
and they move all around
and they draw out the constellations.
And it's really neat.
Yeah, it is.
And this is the same.
You can fast forward time.
You can go through it
and you can look at the next eclipse
as it happens or find out when it's going to happen
and all that sort of stuff.
And PingJock had just said that it works
like a champ on each LED PC.
So that's a nice requirement to run it, Peter.
Yeah, I did read that out,
but it would be pretty minimal these days, I think.
As long as your graphics card can do OpenGL,
I think you wouldn't have any problems with it.
Yeah, I haven't got that right at the moment.
And from what I understand,
this is actually used in Planetariums around the world.
So that would give you an idea of how good it is.
Yeah, it's pretty neat when you first start the program.
You're like on the ground.
You can see grass and everything.
Yeah, and I think you can actually go
and take pictures.
You know, you do the pictures all around your house
all around the area that you're in.
And then you can actually use them in the program.
So once you set your location,
then you could use your own front yard
as the backdrop or the horizon,
which is pretty cool.
Yeah, it is.
I'm just afraid I'm going to lose it like 10 hours with this thing.
Yeah, that's a problem.
And if you get the user's guide,
the bottom of the user's guide,
I think that gives you a lot of suggestions
of things to go and look at.
So, you know, the simple thing,
hit F3, type in, say, Jupiter,
hit the space bar to center on Jupiter.
And then if you hit your page up,
you will zoom right in until you can see the rings
and a hell of a lot more than you could ever see
with your naked eye or the best binoculars
you're ever going to buy.
You can zoom right in and just have a look
at the surface of Mars.
So it really does take planetariums
to the whole next level.
So anything else on this one?
No, I'm happy.
All right.
You want to go next?
Yeah, sure.
I'm hoping, no, not.
I just heard arts.
Okay.
I thought art might be mentioning this one,
but it didn't.
So, yeah.
So there's a program that I've talked about before,
but it's being developed a lot lately.
It's called SBOPKG.
It's written by Chess Griffin.
Formerly a women's reality podcast.
And if you're a Slackware user,
this is a really, really cool application.
It's basically a local front end
for the very popular SlackBuilds.org website.
The SlackBuilds is sort of a community-driven website
of all a whole bunch of packages,
a Slackware packages,
kind of set up for an easy, quick install
on your Slackware box.
And SBOPKG will our sync a list of all the packages
available on SBOPKG on SlackBuilds
onto your local machine.
You can browse through them.
The new version of SBOPKG has a queue.
So you can queue all the ones that you want to get installed
in the order that they need to be installed
in order to satisfy all the dependencies and stuff like that.
And then you simply issue a command
and it goes and fetches them from the website.
You build the packages
and it installs the packages and you're done.
It's a really cool little application
and really small, easy to compile, easy to use.
It's really cool.
Then you can find it at SBOPKG.org.
I think it is.
Yeah, I must admit, Claire, too,
because the chat is probably one of the reasons
I stuck with Slackware.
At first, it was good to,
when I'm still a Slackware,
I got to learn it by actually building packages
from source, et cetera.
But after a while,
sometimes you just want to get something
and install it and get into it.
And you do want to stuff it.
Now, of course,
you still have to muck around with dependencies.
But it makes installing those dependencies
a hell of what is here as well.
It just cuts out the steps that you manually have to go
and do stuff for, isn't it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And the original...
Sorry, go ahead.
I was just going to say,
the original one you didn't get to actually
you still had to manually after.
It went and pulled the packages down
and built them,
you still had to manually go and install them.
But I think in the later version,
you went in,
there was a line there
where you could just actually install it from there as well.
No, not actually,
because what happened was I guess
that they had some security people on the project.
And they're like, you know,
having the user run this package manager
or this browser
and being able to just install it from here
is a big, like, you know,
it's kind of weird to have this whole thing
be sort of a root, you know, application.
So what they're doing is,
especially with the new queue
that the new version has
or the newest version.
There's yet another version coming out fairly soon.
I imagine it will coincide with Slack with version 13.
But the current version of SBOPKG,
you can line up all your packages,
get them in the order that you need them to be installed
so that, you know,
the dependency gets installed
before the actual application gets installed,
that kind of thing.
You line it up,
you save that queue.
And then you get out of SBOPKG,
you switch over to root,
and then you run that queue.
And so then it goes through that whole queue.
So it's sort of,
you're still kind of using the browser
to make a decision list
and then taking another step to actually install it.
But that's so that most of what you're doing is
as a normal user
and you only have to drop down to root
to get them to build them install, you know.
I got an IRC mess from Chess
after we talked yesterday.
And he said that,
in starting with 0.3,
you will have to be root
to run this.
Not just, you know,
you won't be able to do this as a normal user.
That's what he says in his thing.
That's interesting.
Is that what he said?
I didn't catch that.
I didn't know that's the way they were going.
But it kind of makes sense
because if you see the pattern,
I mean this is all about installing applications
in places other than your local environment.
So, yeah, I mean,
it is kind of a root function.
Right, and also he is,
if you know anybody,
he is also looking for testers
for the 0.30 package that he's doing.
And so he is looking for testers for it
for the SBO package, yes.
Well, I was just emailing about it
and he mentioned that to me.
Yeah, matter of fact,
it's on the topic.
Go to that,
to the SBO package site,
you know, the IRC channel.
And you'll see it's on the topic.
He changed the topic.
And today I believe it was earlier.
Open.
And he's coming out with a 0.3,
0.0 alpha that he needs testers for.
So, I see it.
I see it.
Yeah.
I wonder where you get that alpha.
Probably on the Google code.
Yeah, there's a Google code page
I should have mentioned as well.
I think it's a Google code for that.
Whatever.
Like dot com, I guess.
And then slash SBO pkg.
So, it's posted on the Google code.
So, if you search in there for SBO pkg,
it will pop up.
Is it written in Python or Bash?
I think it's written in Bash.
Hey, there's a command line interface that you can use.
Or there's an incursive interface that you can use.
So, you can do it either way you want.
Any more questions on that one?
No, I just have a comment on it though.
I did today.
I mean, I host a system yesterday that I had on a newer machine.
And I have an older,
an older,
a small Pentium 3,
that I got.
It's got like 512 mega ramens of 700 p3.
I think it is.
That I did put Slackware on.
And I today installed G-Potter with it.
And it's real, I mean,
it's nice because you can go to G-Potter,
do the read me.
It'll tell you what exactly files you need.
I just wrote down the files.
And then I went back to slackbuilds.org.
And you can pick out those files,
and you add them to the queue.
And then when you get done adding all your files,
and if any of those files have dependencies,
you can add them in along with it.
And then at the end,
you can either build the whole thing,
or you can, there's an option to build and install.
Which is really nice.
I mean, I just hit the thing and went and had coffee,
and it was just building away.
And if you have an error, it will stop if there's an error.
And it'll ask, it'll tell you that you want to abort,
or do you want to continue on.
And then when you're done,
you have the option to save the queue.
Just in case the package didn't say you had a problem with a package
where you may be a Mr. Dependency,
you can go back and just run that package again from the queue.
It's a great program.
Yeah, and I probably should mention there's a,
I mean, obviously there's the man page for it after you download it.
I also did a how-to on the application itself,
on my secret blog.
So I will post that link in IRC,
and maybe you can add a Christian on it.
So if anyone needs like,
it's got to walk through and stuff like that.
I have how to use the application.
And I just updated it today to reflect all the changes
for the latest version.
And I'll update it again once .30 is officially.
Sweet.
Do you know if this works with the new 64-bit?
Well, yeah, no, it does not,
because that's your pkg.
I mean, Slacknose.org does not have 64-bit options yet.
Now since 64-bit is now official,
one could assume that,
you know, the 60s,
we'll start posting 64-bit versions of Slacknose.
So probably once that all happens officially,
like the versions of the team at the Slackware,
I would imagine everything's going to happen,
you know, it's 32-bit versus 64-bit options to it.
Sounds like it's at Rotten Poms.
Bloody turn, wants to be anyway.
Yeah.
Peter, that was uncalled for a booby band.
Oh, man.
Ha, ha, ha.
Well, since you've brought it up,
go ahead, Zox.
Here, turn.
All right.
Let me just quit from Stellarium.
No, I'm okay.
I was like, shit.
How do I get out of this?
All right, control cue.
There we go.
It went full screen on me, so.
All right.
So first of all, this is just a
yay Linux quick story.
USB 3.0 is around the corner.
It's going to do, I think, five gigabyte transfer rate.
And guess which OS is going to be the first to sport it?
Linux of course.
Sarah Sharp, self-styled Geek S and Linux developer
Intel's open source technology sensor has been working on it
for the last 18 months.
So I'm just going to say, yay.
I've been playing around a little bit with the most ill of Firefox
add-on collector, where you can group a bunch of add-ons,
and then it has it all on a page,
and you can just click links and stuff and says,
and I think there's an add-on collector add-on itself
that you can load them all in.
So it's really easy to set up if you want,
if you have some add-ons that you always run,
and I do, the certain ones I always run,
and you can go and have a look at them,
and then install them nice and easily,
I'm going to paste the link there into
IRC, but it's add-ons.mozilla.org,
4-flash-n-us, 4-flash-firefox,
4-flash-collection, 4-flash-zoak,
and you can go to that page,
and it lists what it, well,
I can add in whatever collections I want,
but in this case it's got no scripts,
adblock plus, cookie safe,
download status bar, tree style tab,
and secure login,
which I run and most of my things.
I have various profiles on Firefox,
and I run these on all of them basically,
so I think this is really cool.
It's a way of nice and easily just packaging all your add-ons
together into one big lump,
so that's cool.
I don't know if anyone's got any comments about that,
if anyone else is using it,
but I think that's really cool.
No comments at all, no, no.
ACP is not on, he's not there.
Sorry, he's in the booby-bent,
so he can't hustle me at all.
I think it's actually really cool.
I'll probably be doing one before the night is over.
Yeah, I think it's cool,
because you can just,
all the add-ons you like,
you can just stick together,
and there you go.
I said there's an add-on,
there's an add-on collector add-on itself,
as it were,
and I'm assuming it makes it sort of one-click install all the add-ons,
but I haven't played around with it yet,
I only read about this a few days back,
and set up my M1,
but it's quite cool for what it does,
and I said you can then go in and set your own ones up,
and they've got a bunch of other ones,
sort of already.
They've got, you know,
developed ones,
and all this, you know,
all of you've got here,
eight hundred and four kind of web development.
Sorry, that's all the add-ons,
but they've got ones that bunch of stuff in together,
so if you're into doing web development,
you've got ones that will measure the distance between it,
so you can know what to set the RSS,
that's like CSS up for,
and colors illness,
you know what the color is,
and a bunch of other stuff.
So it's...
You know what'd be kind of cool?
Sorry, go on.
What would be really cool,
yeah, what would be really cool is if they had a,
like, crazier to install R in this collection.
Yeah, what has this said?
They've got a collections,
the add-on collector add-on itself,
which I assume has to do that,
because I can't imagine it does anything else really,
but I haven't installed that yet.
Oh, I see.
Okay, I see what you're talking about there.
Yeah, but I mean, the page is nice.
I just grabbed the add-on block plus,
off of the link that you posted,
and it installed right,
like, just one click,
and it installed right in this theme on me.
No problem at all.
I'm afraid to...
Can you away from that page or anything?
If we bear with me a moment, then,
I'll add on the add-
I'll add...
I'll...
Too many add-ons.
I will install the add-on collector add-on
in-store now.
And we'll restart Firefox.
And we'll see what that does.
It makes sense that it just does a one-click install
or lets you grab it,
because I can't imagine anything else that it would do,
because all the add-ons are there on a single page.
So, you know, what else is there for it to do, really?
All right, one new add-on collector.
Oh, I had too many windows open.
It's going to take a moment to load them all up.
Okay, first run.
All right, so...
And...
Not obvious.
There is under tools or something.
I don't know.
All right, it's not obviously going to help me here.
I cannot spot an obvious add-on collector.
Well, whether it does for one-click install or not,
it is kind of...
I mean, it's really handy to have in one page.
And then it does...
It is meant that once you click it to install it,
at least on few months of year,
it doesn't take your way from that page,
anything.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All right, I've got to set up my user idea and password
for Mozilla to log in and stuff.
But what you can do is if you're playing around with stuff,
you can set up one that you're playing around with.
And then as you add or remove add-ons in Firefox,
it automatically updates.
So, whatever is...
You can have one for your profile.
And then whatever profile...
Whatever profile...
Firefox profile add-ons you have,
wherever Firefox add-ons you have,
you can then automatically update the website.
Oh, that's cool.
There's also publicist settings.
So, if you're playing around with stuff and it's crap,
and you remove it,
then it's still your pages instead of the updated.
So, that's something for everyone to play around with,
and we can discuss it next week.
We can talk about our own cranks,
and we can all talk about which ones we've got set up.
But I think that's cool.
That's something for you to play with.
And my second and final story is...
I mean, everyone knows about Torah.
I presume everyone knows about Torah,
because obviously we all listen to Hacker Public Radio.
And we've heard that guy talk about Torah there.
But there's a few more ones that have come out
and one that looks interesting.
There's one called BitBlinder.
And it's a bitplinder.com.
And it's meant to do the same kind of thing,
but it...
You set yourself up as a node when you run it.
And then you can only download...
You have to have anonymous stuff routed through you
before you can use it.
There's a sort of percentage there.
And it's anonymized as everything.
And in theory, because every person is now set up as a node,
it makes it better than Torah,
because Torah itself, if your exit node,
is compromised, then you have no security.
But supposedly the way BitBlinder does it, it's a lot better.
Now...
I'll encrypt between the trip through the nodes.
That's what it says.
Let me try to get it about page all the facts.
I was actually going to do this one.
But yeah, what it does is it's just like Torah,
except for it's specifically for BitTorrent.
Because if you do...
Because if you do BitTorrent over Torah,
you tax the entire system
and your Torah download like crap.
So this is a separate system.
So it takes the load off of the Torah system.
And then it works as it has.
They're doing some other stuff to keep your Torah running quickly,
but there being kind of dodgy about it.
Well, it's set on the page I posted in YLC.
BitBlinder.com, for it's like Learn, for it's like overview.
It does say here it supports both BitTorrent and Normal Web Traffic
with more applications coming soon.
So it suggests, or maybe they're just saying that,
so they don't instantly get shut down,
because the only reason people use Torah is because it's evil
and they're downloading illegal copies of Microsoft or whatever,
or movies.
I may have done about that, but it does say
that it works on the Normal Web site as well.
So I have not tried it at all, but it read about it yesterday
before it's something and it looks interesting.
I mean, they do say that, you know, it's not 100% secure.
You can't be 100% secure whilst in theory it is.
If a government or your ISP looks at it,
they could probably figure out, well, this is what's going on.
Because that's one of the attack routes on Torah.
You can look at this person requested something.
It went to this Torah network and it exacts, you know,
a millisecond later, that one went to this one
and then this one went to this child porn site
and the only person that, based on time analysis,
the only person that, you know, the child porn site only was requested
when this guy's requesting stuff.
So this guy must be the person.
I've heard of various people attacking Torah that way.
I mean, you need to be an ISP or a government
or somewhere fairly big with the resources to do this.
But so I don't know.
I was going to read it up more about it
and see exactly how good it is and what's going on.
But it looks cool.
So I thought I'd let everyone know
because I figure everyone's going to find that cool.
But that's my last story.
Yeah, that is pretty quiet.
I use transmission and it has a built-in IP blocker,
but I don't think it would do as much as this one.
It's one of the things you really want to do in layers.
Yeah, you do the only encrypted traffic
which you can do in most of the Torrent clients now
where they have to be encrypted or it won't even share it all.
And then you do the IP filtering and then run it through this
and yeah, they're probably not going to realize
that you're downloading public domain works
just to try and visit your ISP off.
Yeah, really all I use BitTorrent for is
to download Linux Disros
and legal movies and music.
Yeah, I think most of the use I get out of BitTorrent
is for ISPs as well.
Yeah, I want to mention a couple things I found on Twitter this week.
One is an e-book.
It's called Linux 101 Hacks.
Let me throw that in the IRC.
It's a 12 chapters, 140 pages.
It's free.
The author, he also is the creator of the geekstuff.com blog.
I don't know if you guys ever checked that out.
It's pretty cool.
He's got a lot of how-tos on it.
News.
It's a pretty good site.
But anyways, the book has different command hacks,
SSH, Apache, Bash scripting,
and a bunch of other hacks.
I mean, it's a pretty cool book.
The only thing is you have when you go to the website
you have to give them your email address
and then he sends you a password.
But the book is in public domain,
so I'll just link directly to it in the show notes.
So you guys can download it without having to sign up.
And the other website I found on Twitter,
this is just people I follow and they posted it.
It's called a Lynn Desk.
I'll throw that in the IRC too.
It's another website with how-tos
and actually I'm posting stuff in the wrong IRC channel.
That's why you guys aren't seeing it.
I mean, you repost them.
Yeah, Lynn Desk.
It's a Lynn Desk.
It's a blog.
It's got some how-tos.
It's a pretty neat site.
And I was going to talk a little bit about Fedora,
but I'm going to go ahead and let 330 go next.
And I'll say Fedora for the last story.
If you're ready, 330.
Yeah, I'm ready.
So like I said earlier,
I was going to talk about the thing that Dizoka
pulled out from under me.
Which is fine.
We're used to that by now.
But I guess what I can bring up,
if I haven't talked about it before,
is a website called wacoufoot.com.
It is a social network for people that use computers.
What they have is a little tracker application that you run.
And it's Windows, Mac, and Linux.
They just actually got the Linux version running.
You just run this little tracker,
and it looks at what you're running
and just makes lists of stuff.
And then you can go into the website
and you get metrics like,
you know, how often do you use this type of application?
And you can do reviews and join teams.
That's really weird to explain.
But it's really cool to find out just what you're running
and how often you're running it.
That'll link that to me.
IRC.
Does it generate high charts and bar graphs for you
as all of your wasted times looking at, like,
forechan and stuff, or what?
Well, right now,
because it only does applications.
So, like, when I'm sitting on IRC all day,
not doing anything.
All it shows is that I sat in Terminator for six and a half hours.
Or, if I was certain the web,
it shows that I had Firefox open for, you know, 10 hours.
So it's not completely granular yet.
There was an update to try and get
what they were calling web apps like YouTube
and things like that.
Like an application style interface to them.
And I let them do that update on one of the computers.
And we'll see how that goes.
If it goes terribly, I'll pull it off the computer.
But, hey, if you go to wikupa.com slash 330,
you can see mine.
Oh, okay, cool.
Yeah.
And one of the cool things is you can get the,
goopy badges for your blog or website.
You can get those in a little show like your,
your last, your most,
like your five most used,
your last five used,
and your, like,
five overall for something I can't remember
if the exact way that breaks it up.
So, yes, it's just the...
Go ahead.
So, if I have, like,
if I have a terminal window open all day,
and maybe I go through, you know, a couple of times here and there,
is that going to show that I've been using this...
It only tracks it when it's the active application.
Or, you know, yes.
Actually, right now, it's kind of iffy.
Sometimes it notices that you were losing focus on it,
and sometimes it doesn't.
They're doing a lot of patching, trying to fix that.
But, what about part it?
So, it says here that you spend most of your time
at HTT-P,
calling for slash.
I love little boys.com.
Oh, is that right?
Booby Ben.
No.
Right now.
Yeah, it was a Klausu's new screen shot site.
Did you want to join it in the bin?
No, I do not, sir.
Okay.
God knows that he'd do to me in there.
That was a little risky.
So, yeah, this is the best thing I could pull out of my butt
on such short notice,
because it's a wonderful individual and stole my plan.
Don't worry.
I've already lectured him as everyone else only got one story
and he took three.
He's in trouble.
Don't worry.
Right, though.
That's a nice excuse when you come unprepared, anyway.
I have what's prepared.
Anything else, 330?
No.
Not really.
And that's okay to post in the show notes?
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Okay.
All right, Asmeth.
What do you got for us?
Well, I've been noticing some neat hardware
that has showed up on the scene.
One is MyFi.
I may post a link to that.
Oh, that didn't work.
Ha-ha-ha-ha.
Yeah, try that one.
Okay.
What it is, it's a little gizmo,
about the size of credit card that you can shove in your pocket,
pack around with you as you go,
and it has a 3G cell network on it,
as well as Wi-Fi.
You can use up to five machines on the Wi-Fi,
or if you want total privacy on it,
you can just use a USB cable,
and it disables the Wi-Fi.
But you stop and look at that thing,
and what it allows you to do,
anybody that does a lot of mobile networking,
you end up with cable strung everywhere,
and you end up with things plugged into your computer
and to your laptop that dongles and whatnot.
It's just kind of messy,
and this cleans all that up.
Well, it's deep from the standpoint
that you don't really even know you got it with you.
You just have Wi-Fi everywhere you go,
whether you're on the 3G,
or whether you're in an actual hotspot.
Also, I've been noticing that,
well Verizon is a particular outfit that's doing this,
but they've got an HP netbook now
with, you know,
well, you can want to get $200 for it,
you know, with a service plan.
But it has a 3G card built into it,
which is another thing for cleaning up a mobile system.
You pack it around, you use a Wi-Fi in a netbook
where you can, or you use your 3G
where you don't have a hotspot.
I don't know.
I've been watching technology for a long time,
and this stuff's moving fast.
It's because you're old as well.
Well, it is, but it's moving faster than it used to.
Yeah, we're certainly living starting times, don't we?
I mean, kids these days can't believe that,
like, my daughter cannot believe that my parents grew up
and didn't have electricity.
She can't understand that.
And just look what we have today for TVs
and that compared to what you had back in the late 70s.
You know, from mid 70s,
you had the all black and white bloody things.
When I first got involved with computers,
they were the size of a washing machine,
and only businesses had them.
And they had the computing power of a Casio calculator.
I had to explain to many of them
what a record player in a cassette deck were.
I didn't venture into eight track lands.
Yeah, I was going to say, what a bad night track.
I didn't venture there.
I was having a hard time trying to tell them what the other two were.
Oh, some of us just scary.
You talk about, you know,
well, back before we had cell phones,
we had, you know, phones on the corner
that you could put money in and use.
Before cell phones?
Yeah, and they'd be coming.
They don't really have a cell phone.
Yeah.
Compared to any paid telephone,
you see these days inside a post office
where once upon a time there was sort of
on the corner of every block.
Well, they took away all the old ones.
They took away all the old red public phone boxes
that are very famous for being in England.
And, well, I read a statistic, I believe,
that actually there's more red phone boxes
in Hollywood than there are left in the UK now,
because they're all taken away.
I pointed out it.
On some booths, we don't have,
we don't have them on the street corners anymore outside,
but they do have payphones like inside buildings,
like if you go into the local bar or something,
there's a payphone there sometimes.
But you're right, you never see them outside anymore,
but even when you did, you had to be afraid of them.
You never knew what you're going to find in the earpiece.
As the old story about, don't go checking for change,
because someone else can needle in there and affect with AIDS.
Actually, I was thinking more of the chew bubble gum in the earpiece.
Yeah, yeah, that too.
But I was just saying that there was a story
as getting back to your story.
Oh, yeah.
Does anybody else think that as an art
or just one split personality talking an interval?
I've got two microphones.
I think I'll be posting later on.
I think I'm going to win the Nobel Prize.
I'll sketch a familiar.
And you'll never alone with it.
Yeah, but I have the most interesting conversations
as I see that thing you're talking about
at the Verizon store last week.
And it's got a USB connection on it too,
so you can plug it in and recharge it.
Yeah, you can recharge the thorn thing out of your net book
or recharge it.
Well, I got a mobile adapter for it.
It just boggles my mind where this technology is gone.
I mean, you know, it wasn't that long ago
that mobile computing, for me, included ham radio.
I can remember the first cell phones, you know, the bricks.
I mean, they were, and that wasn't that long ago.
I remember that, now, the first cell phones,
you carried them around there.
They were like a field phone.
They came in a box and the handset came out
and stayed connected to the box.
I'm going to scan it so that it's immediately accessible.
I tell you, Sam, you've got your phone embedded under your skin.
I was telling him.
He got his phone somewhere.
Yeah.
I don't understand why that's happening.
Is that a cordless phone, Quattu?
Yeah.
Is that a cordless phone?
Yep, sure.
Yeah, the battery's probably going dead.
I charged it for about three hours in preparation for this car.
That's a good working area.
I'll grab the back of the ham set and see if that does better.
Okay.
He said, this is it.
Max will smile at a she-fun.
And that was amazing back then.
Yeah.
Hey, that was futuristic back then.
I said, there was...
Oh, come on.
No more than a bond talking into his watch.
Well, Dick Tracy.
I think started that well before Bond.
Dick Tracy had a watch where he could receive pictures on it.
Remember?
And there are Dick Tracy cartoons.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
That was put back in the 60s or maybe the 50s.
Yeah, 50s even.
I think that television wasn't even at all.
Then you had what's his name flying around in his spaceship there?
Who was that?
George Drenth hanging off it.
Oh, no.
Thunderbird.
No.
No, even before that.
Captain Scala?
The black and white.
No.
What was the black and white with name?
Name the merciless.
What was the...
Oh, okay.
That was Buster Crab and...
That wasn't...
Buc Roger says the other one.
No.
No, that was Flash Gordon.
Flash Gordon was big.
Flash Gordon, yeah.
That's the other one.
And that was back in the 50s or something.
Seriously?
Are you asking as?
I swear to God, it is a flip personality.
They call it schizophrenia.
And...
And as much the same as Mrs. I can say.
I'm afraid.
I don't want you to be the token of it.
Peter, it's that desert air.
Hmm.
No, it means Peter needs to put down the pipe.
Or pass it.
You just haven't had anything to say.
That's what I'm saying.
Yeah, don't be hogging the pipe, will you?
I'm thinking about taking that up today.
Taking what up?
The pipe, whatever the pipe is.
Yeah, it's all that rainwater he's been drinking and crippled him.
The body don't know how to handle pure stuff.
Well, they found out down the South, didn't you, 330?
What pure stuff was?
Pure L.
He found out what swamp water was.
All right, caught two, test F-bone out.
Okay, testing testing.
Can you hear me any better?
It's clear, but it's still low.
It's better than before though.
Yes, okay.
Weird.
Well, don't be pushing the buttons on us now.
With up the light battery beep?
I don't know.
I don't know.
That was weird about the engine.
The door or something?
What's the big?
Yeah, I was waiting for Claw 2 to get its phone fixed.
All right, I installed Fadorah.
Was it last week or week and a half ago?
On that motherboard I talked about last time on TIT radio.
But the install, I mean, why download, why tried both the 32 and the 64-bit?
I installed from the live CD and the live USB.
And the install is probably the easiest one I've ever seen.
It couldn't get any easier than this.
I mean, all you do is pick your time zone, partition your hard drive,
and then it copies the live image to your hard drive.
Yeah.
It probably takes 10 minutes, I mean, all together.
And then when you reboot, then you put in your, you know,
for your root password, user name, and all that stuff.
And I mean, then you're right into a working system.
I mean, it's probably, it's easier than any distro I have ever installed.
I went with the Gnome desktop, and you get just Gnome the way it's supposed to be.
There's no extra stuff added.
I mean, it's very basic.
I mean, the artwork is beautiful, but it's not bloated with a bunch of crap you don't need.
But is it not plated with some crap that a lot of people would want?
I mean, somebody's going to want something, and you're going to install it.
But I'd rather start with like a devian install, and just have the basics,
and then add what I want to, instead of having to take out stuff I don't want.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, I'd like, yeah, I do.
I mean, that's the reason I run Arch.
Likely is because you get that absolute bare minimum thing going from there.
But your typical user is going to want, you know, to be able to listen to MP3s and stuff like that.
And from what I understand, Fedora has absolutely nothing like that, isn't it?
Well, yeah, it's 100% free.
I mean, everything's free software in it.
You would have to add another repository to get, you know, stuff like MP3 playback and flash, you know, the non-free and video drivers.
Fedora uses Yam, that's not.
Yup, it uses Yam, and it's...
Very easy to use.
Yeah, it's really easy.
I would say it's probably right now equal to app.
So for a new user who's just installed it, say, come over from Windows.
It's just wants to be able to listen to MP3s and watch Flash on YouTube, et cetera.
You don't have to add repositories or anything like that.
It's easy to go in and install stuff like that.
If you want to do stuff like that, you would have to add the RPM fusion repository.
Once again, that's a pretty simple thing to do.
Yeah, it's pretty simple to do.
I haven't installed any on this system.
I'm looking at it right now.
It's 100% free.
There's no Flash or MP3 playback or anything like that.
Yeah, well, from what you're saying, there's no validity to the...
When people say that the app's a pine and that there's no place for it because, you know, it's too hard for new users to use it.
Yeah, it's just like none of that's true at all.
And it's no different to a lot of other distributions out there.
Well, all you need is AUG for the good podcast anyway.
Yeah.
Okay, well, that's a point.
Well, you know, one of the things that actually someone in IRC had run into, they were installing it.
Well, they were doing the KDE install and they were having like all kinds of problems.
And I couldn't see, I was trying to help them, you know, I couldn't figure out what the problem was.
And then it turns out that you mentioned a long way that, you know, that is DVD installer.
DVD installer must be bad or something.
I was like, wait a minute, your DVD installer, there is no DVD installer for the KDE version of Fedora.
And it turns out he had gotten, you know, his ISO, his DVD ISO from some torrent site.
And I guess he must have gotten someone's reach then of Fedora or something because it was clearly not an official live CD because the only KDE version of Fedora offers.
It's a live CD, they don't offer a live DVD or a DVD installer.
So, you know, I mean, I don't know what some people review, you know, for Fedora.
But if you're going to try out a distra that you're not used to, you certainly, well, any distra, it's really.
But certainly if it's one that you haven't tried out before and you want to come and see if it's the right distra for you or whatever,
you want to make sure that you're getting the official ISO so that you're actually installing what is actually being put out there.
That might be an issue for all I know.
I always get the check sum.
Right.
And in whatever program I use, what's that one in GNOME?
I forget the name of it. Baratheo? Is that the name of it?
Yeah, Baratheo.
Yeah, that one all make me check it for me.
Just speaking of that, it's the MD5 checksum that you're just talking about it, isn't it?
How does that work? That's something I've never actually looked into.
I'd be interested to just understand how it works.
Yeah, if I'm going to have to prove a 3DO episode about that.
Well, I know there's programs that created, like if you haven't an ISO, you just created one.
You can create your own check sum for it.
You use some kind of algorithm, mathematical algorithm, that comes up with this funky ass number
and letter combination that's only...
It's calculated like per section of the ISO or some Steve Gibson did a thing on that.
All you have to do is type in info core you tell, and then in single quotes,
you can get all the information you'd ever want on MD5 sums and how you can create them
and how to check them and stuff like that.
I don't think it'll go into the technicalities of how they're calculated,
but it gives you a lot of information.
Because it's on every Linux install, it's part of the utility that come on the system.
And I don't know if this is a pro or a con, but for some people it's a pro.
No mono is installed by default.
Huge pro.
And really the only problem, well, this isn't really not a problem.
The only con I can see, maybe for some people, is SE Linux turned on by default?
Did you have any issues with that monster?
Yeah, it seems like a lot of stuff I was trying to do.
I was getting pop-ups, giving me warnings.
Those are just warnings, I think.
Were you ever hindered from doing something that you wanted to do,
like accessing your sound card or whatever?
The only thing, changing my CPU frequency from a widget,
it kept popping up saying that I couldn't do it, that I didn't have permission.
But that's the only thing I would say that would confuse a new user.
Is that being turned on by default?
I think this is my opinion.
I think it's overkill for a normal desktop.
But you can go on there and turn it off.
Right.
I've never had issues with it.
It's never blocked me from doing anything,
but I don't do a whole lot of CPU scaling either.
So that's that.
But it's definitely worth a try.
I mean, I really like it.
I'm going to keep it on this one.
The only other problem I had is when I would fire up,
noddles, or any GUI file manager, like PC Man FM,
I couldn't access my home directory.
It would pop up saying permissions for Monster B are unknown.
It was kind of random, but after today,
there was like a 32 megabyte update, security update,
and I haven't had to problem sense.
So maybe it's fixed.
Did you see this problem?
What were you doing?
I could not access my home directory
from a GUI file manager.
I could do it from the terminal.
No problem.
But when I would fire up noddles,
it would just sit there and time out
and say that permissions for Monster B are unknown.
And I asked the question in the chat room,
the Fedora chat room,
because I thought maybe it was SE Linux,
but they said it wasn't.
Nobody really knew what the problem was,
but I'm hoping after this last little update
that they had today, it might have fixed it.
Yeah, that never happened on any of the alpha for release candidates
that I was trying,
and it certainly didn't happen in KDE.
I don't know.
That's an interesting one.
I haven't heard that before.
But see, it happened on two systems of mine,
a 32-pid and a 64-pid.
So it just wasn't that one computer that happened on both.
But hopefully it's fixed now.
I'll blame Gnom.
What's that?
I'll blame Gnom.
Yeah, it could be.
Have you ever tried making a live USB stick?
Yeah, I have.
Yeah, that's really neat.
Yeah.
It gives you the option to put extra space on your USB key
so you can save things to it.
So every time you plug it in, you get all your stuff back.
Yeah, when I go on trip,
that thing saves my life,
because inevitably I'm going to visit a friend
with a Windows computer,
and I'll just boot right into Fedora
and use their computer for whatever I need to do happily.
Yeah, this is something I hardly ever use.
You know that gun to your hard drives?
How you have that smart,
when it boots up and the BIOS?
Yeah.
I forgot what it stands for,
but it checks your hard drive to make sure it's healthy.
When I booted into that live USB stick,
it told me that one of my hard drives were dying,
and it was.
I mean, I knew it was going.
It was kind of neat how it popped up,
and I could do a scan on it,
told me everything that was wrong with it.
It was a Tivo drive from 2003.
Just trying to get some use out of it
until I got a SATA drive for the system.
Right.
Yeah, well, that's cool.
I've never actually seen a smart warn me about anything
until the thing goes dead,
and then I look at it and says,
oh yeah, by the way, your hard drive is dead.
But I had no idea it was included.
You know, I don't know if it's an extra program,
or if it's something built into the kernel.
I have no idea.
I do not know.
But I don't know what other people are talking about.
You know, there's another podcast
that was just bad mounting Fedora,
and I have no idea why.
So that's a good operating system.
Yeah, I was trying to figure out what they were talking about as well,
because I just couldn't figure out like,
I mean, the experience
just sounds so surrealy bad.
I just don't understand like what on Earth they could have been trying.
That was why I was like the only possible thing I could think of
was maybe they got some weird ISO from a torrent site
as someone's like sort of weird hacked together
reached in Fedora,
and we're trying that and sailing miserably.
Yeah, I mean, I've used the Alphas and the release candidate,
and now they're, you know, the actual release.
And, you know, obviously I used it at least once a day
for some major task.
Doesn't seem to be unusable to me.
And they really, I mean, package kit is perfect now.
You just go to, you know, like in Goodon,
you go to system administration,
and then add removed software.
Yeah.
And I mean, it's couldn't be any easier.
Yeah, and the cool thing about package kit too
is that they're integrating it a lot
with the rest of the system, you know,
so that it'll handle, it'll recognize in any application
that you're running.
If you don't have a codec installed,
it'll package kit will come up and offer, you know,
that codec, you know, is available in the repository
or a font that you don't have on your system.
It'll detect that.
And if the font isn't your repo,
it'll offer to install that for you.
Stuff like that.
And they're hoping to expand that to even more.
Like, I don't know.
Not docs.
If you don't have for some reason a text editor
that will open a .doc,
and you're trying to open a .doc,
package kit should open up and say,
hey, you know, what you could use is
this package, open office, or Abbey Word,
would you like to install one of them?
Cool.
Yeah, well, I used it a few times,
the GUI or, you know, package kit,
but like, me and I used YUM from the command line,
and I noticed package kit pops up at the top.
You know, when it's doing something,
have you noticed that?
It says, I forgot what it says,
but it brings up package kit.
So it must be like syncing or something
with package kit.
So I can, everything's cached.
Yeah, I don't know.
That is interesting.
I've never even noticed that.
Yeah, it shows it right at the top before it does something
before it starts scrolling down.
Yeah, from what I understand,
the package kit maintainer is working pretty closely
with Fedora.
So maybe he is integrating
some of the package kit command lines.
Yeah, and the main reason I wanted to try Fedora 11
is because of your interview with Paul Frills,
when he mentioned that,
Paul's audio thing he's working on,
what is that called again?
He's going to call it post cap.
I mean, that's going to be great.
It's going to be fantastic.
They're going to say a free and open alternative
to something like pop shoes.
You know, if that's open now for anyone,
or is it still like kind of a,
like an invite only?
Well, the service is open to anyone.
Like you can call in and establish a conference room
and you have zip calls and dial in numbers and stuff like that.
So, what are you talking about?
I'm talking right now.
We could do that right now on talk. Fedora project.org.
That's open.
I guess you probably have to register or something,
but that's it.
Right.
The Paul's cap itself,
the application that will sit on your local machine,
enabling you to record from all these different inputs and outputs and stuff like that,
that's not, that doesn't work yet.
I guess, so he's still working on it.
Monster, but you don't get to say the Plymouth splash screen
when Fedora boots that do you?
I'm not sure.
Okay, on the 64-bit install I had,
I know for a fact I didn't see it,
but on the 32-bit with the Intel card,
I guess this is the Plymouth screen.
I don't know.
You say like the Simon the Plymouth?
It's a Fedora logo.
Yeah, that's the, that's the planet.
Okay, yeah, it's like a Fedora logo and as it's loading,
it's filling in the color of the logo.
Yep, yep.
Well, what about the Simon the Plymouth in that?
I thought that was Plymouth.
That was through a 10.
Okay, I said the Plymouth out of this one.
Well, no, they're just changing the animation to get to see.
Instead of a sun, you get to see the Fedora logo
throughout the minutes.
It kind of pops on the little flash of light or something.
Oh, okay.
So it'll change every release.
It'll be something different, probably.
I like this one.
I'll just keep this one around.
Thank you so much.
Oh, yeah, that's cool looking.
No, you've been using Fedora since what?
Version 8?
Yeah.
Now, do you do a complete fresh install every time
or do you just do an upgrade when you go from one release to another?
I do just an update, but this time I did a fresh
because I went from 32 to 64 fifth this time.
Oh, okay.
So I'm using the EFD4 now.
So, yeah, everything kind of,
I just did a big major update.
I mean, a big major redesign.
What do you do is get a little squiggly, bloody line going back and forth
under the Fedora sign?
No, that's not premise.
Well, according to YouTube, it is.
For the wrong, the X has already started at that point.
That's after premise has occurred.
Well, this is straight after grub.
Yeah, exactly.
No, it's not.
Well, according to this, I'll just paste it.
Yeah, go for it.
I can't watch it because I don't have flash,
but if they're wrong, trust me.
I have it on my triple EPC,
and you see it grabs,
and then it goes to a pale blue screen,
that a little white in the center,
and it becomes the Fedora logo,
and that fills up with white,
and then it flashes again,
and it becomes the proper logo.
And boiler goes to what you're seeing there.
That's when the X has actually started.
Okay.
Plus, if it's a brahade,
which one is that?
10.
10.
The ride is the next version.
So that's like a linear fit for dead men.
Brahade is the next, you know,
whatever the next release is going to be.
They call it brahade.
I really like that solar version, I did.
Yeah, no, that was straight.
I like this actually better.
It just looks a little bit more,
like a minimalistic,
that's cool,
that's it.
Yeah, Peter,
I've seen Fedora boot with Plymouth,
and that's not it.
I think that's what happens
if you don't have Plymouth.
Maybe that's just what brahade includes.
Yeah, because that would make sense
because they probably don't have
a Plymouth scene designed for that yet.
I would videotape before you,
but you just have to try Fedora
and look for yourself.
Well, I was going to,
actually, but now that they've got rid of that,
I don't know why I'm not going to look for them.
I can give you a Fedora ticket,
Peter, if you really want to try it,
the one with the sun.
Yeah, I'm really upset, yeah.
Well, if you went to self,
you would have got the debt for Fedora 10,
and Fedora 11.
Well, excuse me,
and I'd just like to wire on the subject to self.
I'd like to say a big thank you to
Higuel and Snack Machaim
for sending me a little bit of self
because I now have all the Zeus
and they've all stepped from self.
Sweet.
You know, I don't want the bloody
football to fight.
You could even go through that on it.
If I had your address,
I'd send you something to play that words.
But saying something,
and Little Miss 60 for it,
she thinks Higuel and Snacky as well.
Was there any twinkies in that box?
Not unless Navelle made them.
No.
I don't know if you'd want Navelle twinkies
and have Bono.
Yeah, I'm not going to get into that argument
because I know nothing about it.
But if Microsoft and Navelle had nothing to do with Mono,
would people worry about it as much?
Well, Microsoft and Navelle had nothing to do
with it at Whitney because it is.
Yeah, but that's right.
So, but if someone else had written it,
would it be such a big deal?
I think not, to be honest with you, but...
You mean like Apple and Canonical did it?
Well, yeah, let's say Canonical did it, not Apple.
I often wonder whether it would be such a big deal.
I don't think it would be a big deal,
but I think that's big enough that it's a Microsoft technology
that people are just running to adopt
for no apparent reason or no good reason.
Yeah.
But, too, it's the same reason people run to Microsoft anyway,
because that's all they know.
They're animals, lead to slaughter.
Yeah, all right, there you go.
All right, anything else before I wrap it up?
Anyone?
Is that me?
Yeah, put a bow on it.
Stick the fork in it, it's done.
All right.
Okay, did it beat inside?
Oh, it has a door.
Before I wrap it up, I just want to mention that
the how I found Lennox series is still going strong.
So, if you want to send an audio clip,
you can just send it to Monster B,
at LennoxCranx.info,
or send it to feedback at tip-review.info,
it doesn't matter.
And I'm sitting on a few now.
I need to get these out,
and I haven't had a chance to reply to these guys.
But, weird it out.
LennoxCranx.in, Oscar, Eddie,
and Guitar Man.
I just want to say thanks for sending them in.
I'm sorry I didn't reply back to you.
And speaking of Guitar Man,
he was on the open source musician podcast.
Did you guys hear that?
He was interviewed on there.
It was a pretty good episode.
Oh, yeah, I listened to it today.
It was very good, very, very good episode.
So, get over there and download that one.
And Monster B,
did you talk about the ham shack last week?
I think there was a couple weeks ago.
Okay, I just want to reiterate the fact that
those guys do a really good show,
and it's kind of a lot to do with Lennox,
and it's well worth listening to.
Yep, it is.
And we need feedback for this show.
So, if you guys could please send us some hints on us.
It gives us some feedback,
but it gets into the beat.
Whenever the poem speaks the whole time.
The joke is in the bend.
Yeah, crap.
So, send us some feedback,
a tit radio down in full.
And thought I was going to have a special song tonight,
but I don't.
It's not ready.
So, any requests?
I would love to hear a song about Amawa.
In a poor, black red nileta.
Oh, geez.
That one again?
Yeah.
Hey, I like that one.
Come on, Peter.
Oh, he requests us.
I'm going to go ahead and play it,
and I'll talk to you guys next week on Lennox Cranks.
See you.
All right, good night.
Good night, everybody.
Good night, everyone.
Good night.
Hold on, let me get a zilka.
The bend so you can see good night.
But not everyone say it.
Good night.
Sitting on my John Deere in the Deer John Letter.
The more I think about it,
I'm feeling a whole lot better.
The way she stayed on my case,
it won't be hard to forget her.
Sitting on my John Deere in the Deer John Letter.
She didn't like the simple life,
living on the farm.
All I wanted was a wife,
to hold in my arms.
She never liked my tractor.
I didn't like her mouth.
I'm headed to the back 40.
She's heading south.
Sitting on my John Deere in the Deer John Letter.
The more I think about it,
I'm feeling a whole lot better.
The way she stayed on my case,
it won't be hard to forget her.
Sitting on my John Deere in the Deer John Letter.
She always liked the country club,
high for losing pride.
I had better things to do,
like pulling a fly.
Now she's history,
since I read my mail.
I guess the chemistry is going straight to hell.
Sitting on my John Deere in the Deer John Letter.
The more I think about it,
I'm feeling a whole lot better.
The way she stayed on my case,
it won't be hard to forget her.
Sitting on my John Deere in the Deer John Letter.
Although she's gone,
I still got 20.
Still got the form in the 40-20.
Sitting on my John Deere in the Deer John Letter.
The more I think about it,
I'm feeling a whole lot better.
The way she stayed on my case,
it won't be hard to forget her.
Sitting on my John Deere in the Deer John Letter.
Sitting on my John Deere in the Deer John Letter.
Thank you for listening to Hackers of Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by tarot.net,
so head on over to C-A-R-O-DOT-N-E-T for all of us beneath.
Thanks for watching.
Thanks for watching.
