Episode: 304
Title: HPR0304: Phone Line Troubleshooting
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0304/hpr0304.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 15:56:45

---

Transcripted by
Hi guys, this is going to be 21. Welcome to HPR episode.
Q4.
February 27, 2009.
Today we're going to talk about, um, wait until I let you tell some of mine and how to figure out, um, when something may be wrong with your phone line and, um, how the phone line, how your phone line interconnects with the, you know, global telephone network.
So, one thing you can do if you're having someone having maybe some stack line, um, is to look where your, what is known as your network interface, where, um, that's also, you know, that's also the,
Jack, where you actually plug your phone into that code network interface.
Um, you might want to look in there, um, and what you'll see, and what you'll see in there, um, going to be usually four pairs of, four pairs of wires.
The first pair will be a red and a green wire, which are, um, which are your cables for the first telephone line in your house.
And if you have more than one one, uh, you'll have a yellow and black wire, and those, those will be for your second one, the, uh, second one in your house.
So, you might want, you might, you'll probably want to check in there for any, um, loose connection or bad wires or things of that nature.
You, you want to look for it.
That'll help you determine, um, yeah, that'll help you determine what's not.
You have a problem or the phone company has a problem and you need to talk to your phone company and, you know, some of that.
So, and another thing, another thing that could be, um, you know, it could be causing a problem would be if you, um, give the actual cord from your phone to the, to the jack is damaged.
So, maybe you want to replace that, um, you know, that, indeed be with causing a problem.
Um, what never knows.
Well, you know, how to troubleshoot.
You know how to troubleshoot, you should know.
That's right.
Also, your, um, and there's also the, um, actual cable that runs along your street that, um, be damaged is not even your responsibility at all.
That, that that would be the phone company's responsibility to, um, repair.
Because there is what is known as, um, line of demarcation.
That's, that's a term that the FCC uses, um, you distinguish, you know, that, that's the term they used to distinguish the point to, that's what they call the point where your responsibility for repairs begins.
And if you go past that line, you know, usually where, um, it's what goes into your house.
That's, whatever goes into your house, like yours, whatever's inside your house, your responsibility, anything outside your house, um, is usually the telephone company's responsibility.
Or as repairs and, um, repairs and that sort of thing.
Yeah, so that, um, also your phone itself, um, would be having a problem at your, um, maybe a circuit that could be damaged in your phone.
You're using, um, a digital phone.
Some other connection that's damaged. I've been older, um, electrotype phone.
Um, overall, that should tell you, um, what to look for.
What to look for as far as, you know, where your responsibility is as far as repairing COVID equipment, um, and things, and things of that nature.
So, um, and also what you can do is, um, almost forgot this.
Um, also what you can do if you need to test whether you, you know, whether all your actions are good, you know, go get a cheap, but, go get a cheap lineman handset of eBay.
You know, you can test, you can test that, um, that situation.
But yeah, um, overall, that should tell you how to fix most of the problems that would be occurring down inside your house as far as telephone equipment goes.
Um, like I said, anything outside of your house is the telephone company's responsibility as far as repair and service and whatnot.
So, if you, if you checked all those things and you're still having problems, um, then, yeah, then the problem probably lies.
For example, if you're not giving that open at all and you've checked, you've checked everything inside your house, the problem probably is, um, outside of your house on the pole.
That would be the phone company's responsibility.
So, yeah, so, that should tell you, like I said, that should tell you all you need to know, um, to troubleshoot most of the, um, telephone equipment problems that you may be having.
Um, so, hope you enjoyed this. Hope you found this informative.
Um, and, um, thanks for listening.
See you next time.
Bye.
Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh
Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh uh, uh, uh uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh uh, uh, uh uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh
