Episode: 692
Title: HPR0692: audacity to mess with satan
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0692/hpr0692.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 01:00:25

---

.
Hello everyone, this is Goobmo. I did not have one topic that would fill an entire episode,
so I thought I would talk about a project I hope ends up a waste of time, some command line
resources, and an experiment with reverse speech.
Just before Christmas, I got up one morning to head off to work, went through my normal
routine and hit the road. I can only imagine that the safety sensors in my garage door
tripped, and as I sped off, the door returned to the open position.
An hour later, Mrs. Goobmo found the garage door open, and the passenger door of her vehicle
ajar, and the glove box rifled. This scared the snot out of me. We take for granted that the
garage door is a solid security tool, and so tend to leave the internal doors unlocked,
as well as the vehicles in my attached deep sanctuary, aka the shop.
First step was to implement a policy of treating the garage as a security risk.
No purses or keys are to be left in the rigs. Garage doors are to be locked at all times,
and I am considering options on auto-locking hardware and exterior doors to replace
the internal hollow core doors, now giving us access to the garage.
For added security strength, then the fun began.
I dug through my old hardware, and found a retired tower with enough juice to run a boom-to.
Loaded up motion, a webcam security solution, and set it up in the shop,
close enough to the shop door to snake a webcam out to the eve, overlooking our driveway.
There is a great tutorial on the show notes on how to sync your captured images to Dropbox,
so you can run this system headless, and just clear out the pictures of cats, birds, and delivery men from your work system.
I have been playing around with my Kindle, and using Calibre to convert documents for it.
This got me digging through my saved documents to find victims for conversion,
and I ran across my collection of command line books.
Unix, for the beginning mage, is a collection of stories by Joe Topgianne,
is styled in a fantasy setting explaining basic command line usage in a compelling and enjoyable manner.
This is opt for it up for free.
Then there is the FSS bookstore.
Their books are available for purchase or free download, and are a great resource on many command line and GNU Linux topics.
Direct links in the show notes.
A friend told me about a famous recent saying that when played backwards had an ominous sound to it.
He went on to claim that this well-known saying was made known to him on the internet, so had to be true.
It just didn't sound right to me.
I just could not get the sentence structure to line up in reverse in my head, so needed to do it for real.
So I fired up a Dacity, and recorded me saying the phrase twice, then highlighted the output and selected effect from the toolbar, then reverse.
And I'll be darned he was right.
So now that we know that everything you hear on the internet is true, can we not make HBR the best source of information available?
Yes we can.
Yes we can.
And you say.
And you say.
Thank you for listening to Active Public Radio.
HBR is sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over to C-A-R-O dot A-C for all of her team.
Thanks for watching.
You
