Episode: 403
Title: HPR0403: TIT Radio ep 4
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0403/hpr0403.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 19:57:44

---

parental guidance is suggested.
Choose, Peter is lying on the bed in his rent stockings, waiting to pleasure you.
It's July 11th, 2009, and once again, it's time for a tit radio.
The only show in Hacker Public Radio with super catapults.
Right after this.
What?
What do you mean, get along?
Why are you young whippersnapper?
All you young people think that Lena's two evolves invented the concepts of Lennox.
Why are I was programming shell scripts before you were born?
Before your father was born?
You should listen to Doug McElroy, he's the one who invented pipes and filters.
He hired the programmers at invented Unix, and all you people could listen to him if you
went to the Ohio Linux Fest in Columbus, Ohio, was September the 22th and 26th.
You should also listen to Peter Solis, he'll be there too, talking about many of the other
innovations that the Unix people contributed, TCPIP, security enhancements, and many more.
Oh, don't worry, it won't just be a bunch of old farts like me sitting around.
Elizabeth's Barbie will be there, talking about how her school system tried to make her
use paper saws, creating walls to her learning, then she learned about free software in a world
without walls, who needs windows.
What?
You say you're ill?
Well, I'm not so feeling so good myself, oh, you are ill.
I think it's something simple like www.hierolinix.org.
B-D-A-R-B-Square, as we always used to say, well, I'm going to go back to sleep, I need
my rest for the big festivities.
Hello and welcome to Tip Radio Episode 4, I'm Monster B, and with me at the round table
is 330.
Hello.
Peter's 64 with a J.
Hey, howdy.
Clot 2.
Hello.
J. Lindsey.
Hello.
Asmith.
Howdy, howdy.
Hey, Gwall.
Hello.
And Art V61.
Howdy, howdy.
All right.
We're live.
Okay, should we spend the will to you the sheriff is?
I think we better.
Yeah, because it's going to get out of control.
Let me film you here.
I'm not going to say we're going to need one.
I can tell.
Here we go.
May need two.
Debt duty.
Peter 64.
Haha.
Anyway, exactly needy.
Wait, inside.
He's my mom and dad still in town.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You're in trouble.
Haha.
Haha.
Haha.
Take a drink of water, Art.
For art.
For art.
For art.
All right.
You know what I forgot.
We have some feedback.
Let me get this out of the way.
From Seeker X.
Ooh.
It's a pretty cool name.
He wants to know if there are any good open source music making programs like fruity
loops for Lennox.
Oh crap.
I forget what it is.
Good timing.
Good tell us surely.
I do.
And FTWT.
What the hell is that?
That's for the win or something.
And with something or other.
Good timing says.
And good timing wouldn't know.
Why?
Why?
No.
My God, that was painful.
Good timing.
Thanks.
You're good.
Haha.
Okay.
So wired.
And as that wired.sourceforget.net, still an active project.
And in our door.
And as that, our door.org.
There's another one called Trev.
What's it called?
Trev.
Burso.
Clot 2, you would know.
I don't know the one you're talking about.
What's it called?
Trev.
Burso.
Never heard of that one.
I just looked it up.
It just did a Google search on it.
It says Trev.
Great.
Trev.
Burso D8.
It's a digital IDO workstation.
It looks similar to audacity.
Yeah.
Wired.
It looks pretty cool.
I haven't used it.
But if the tarman has and says it's cool, I'm sure he's right.
The only problem is I've never used fruity loops.
But re-noise too.
And that's for max TC and Linux.
So isn't a hydrogen a drum synthesizer thing?
Yeah.
But see, fruity loops is just loop-based as far as I know.
So you don't really, as far as I know, there's not really much midi sequencing and stuff
like that.
You just stick in a whole bunch of loops after each other and, you know, you can affect
them and make them do different things.
It's all other people's loops, which, you know, I mean, I've said before, I mean, you
could go to any good music magazine.
A lot of times they'll come with a DVD.
If you get them off the shelf, they'll come with a DVD full of loops.
And, you know, if you're in the music scene and you collect enough of those, you've got
your own loop library right there.
And you just throw it into, you know, any good music software, our door, Q-track, or even
audacity, although that doesn't have some of the nicer interfaces for looping.
I mean, you could do it anywhere and achieve basically the same thing as you do with
3D loops.
And they could also look at a jacosher.
They wanted something that was, you know, kind of working sometimes, not really, and heavily
influenced by John O. and that horrible beard.
Right.
I haven't looked at jacosher any time recently, has anyone else?
I used it a while back.
It was all right.
I mean, I've heard it has gotten better, but I just, yeah, I haven't really used it since
a very initial version, but yeah, that's not something that I would recommend yet personally.
Well, another couple of distros to trail to, 64 studio and Ubuntu studio.
You could check those two distros out and they have a bunch of tools in there, too.
Yeah, but you know what, one thing, I mean, really, a lot of people who are asking that
kind of question, what they're really asking is, is there a disk that they can pop into
their computer that'll have all the little sample libraries and all the loops and all the
stuff that they need, they can kind of start plugging in things into a sequence and making
music.
And I don't think that there's a package like that for Linux that I'm aware of.
You really kind of have to have a map like the sound patches and the loops on your own.
And from there, you can construct what you're trying to construct.
Because a lot of the people who used free loops from what I can recall aren't the people
who have their own synths or, you know, aren't going to be twiddling knobs on a drum machine.
Or just people who want to use stuff that, you know, some DJs recorded for, you know,
royalty-free and put it out there.
So that kind of stuff on Linux, get it yourself, just go to the store, get some sample CDs
and start using them.
You just have to build it up yourself a little bit more than you do on like a PC or a Mac.
So there's also the, I think it's called the Open Sound Project, where there's all kinds
of loops there.
Yeah.
FreeSound.org.
That's what I was talking about.
Yeah, yeah.
That one.
But I mean, that one is, at least the exploration on that site that I've done, I haven't really
been able to like kind of just do a search.
Okay, I need, you know, a funky drum loop, you know, that is eight bars or whatever.
You know, it's hard to find exactly what you're looking for.
Whereas if you go out and get like sample CDs, you will find the stuff organized exactly
like that.
You know, it'll tell you exactly what each loop is, where to find it on the disk.
And then you just, you know, you dump it onto a hard drive and you just have this big,
big library full of, of different loops that you can just plug in and start mixing.
But the FreeSound Project is cool too.
That's very cool.
All right.
Anything else on this one?
I have one more feedback.
This is from Matthew.
He says, I really like to show, but I don't see any difference between tip radio and the
Linux cranks.
Why not just do Linux cranks each week?
Hmm.
I actually thought that would look different.
I mean, too.
Totally.
You obviously haven't listened to him.
What do you do?
I'm like, well, no sheriff on the cranks.
Exactly.
That's a big, long, great set.
Well, and artistic.
And what's the difference anyway, what it's called?
If he's listening to it right out here, he can pretend it's winning strength, so if
it makes him feel better.
True.
Anyway, it's good that he enjoys it.
But now I've what a thought does.
I don't even want to think listener.
Look, cranks, no one has, we're talking about news, don't we?
Yes.
I would try and be a little bit more interesting and have a few different topics.
I would have thought.
But anyway, at least no one's ever said, hey, your show makes him want to cut myself.
Except that you now emailed him.
You're in the bin.
Put him in the bin.
Oh, oh.
There's no cutting on this shirt.
Oh, wow.
We know.
We went to big boys now.
Three minutes.
Three minutes.
Oh, wow.
Oh, the sheriff is out of control.
Yeah.
Well, Sheriff, you want to kick it off with your topics?
Come on.
Come on, big guy.
I think now on we should call him Kim Jong-Peter.
I guess my head, what can I say?
I think that it feels.
Yeah.
I was just going to talk about a little known program.
Well, in general, I thought maybe talk about home automation of Linux.
And I know if you go back through the Hacker Public Radio episode, you're going to find
a way.
I can never remember the bloke's name.
Interviewed the bloke from Windows Media Center, which is a really good interview.
And Linux Media Center has a lot of home automation stuff built into it.
Also, then there was that other one where a bloke talked about home automation on Linux,
but sort of very expensive.
And the fact, as a matter of fact, not all of us have a lot of money to spend on this
sort of stuff.
But if you've got a few bucks to spare, especially in America, where the X-Ten stuff, and that's
the stuff that Hay-U deals with or can control, is extremely cheap.
Now, Hay-U is just a command line, a console based application.
You can get web interfaces for it, but personally, I've never bothered.
All you have to do is buy what's called a CM12, which is the computer interface module.
It also can control another thing called a firecracker, which is radio frequency transmitter.
And the way X-Ten works is you have a receiver plugged into a wall socket.
It gets the radio frequencies signal from either a remote control or this firecracker or whatever,
and then is broadcast across the power lines to all the other modules in your house.
Now, it's a brilliant little program.
I mean, like I said, it's just command base.
That's all you need.
And it's as simple as typing.
Now, first of all, this was written by a fellow called Charles W. Sullivan and Daniel B. Sothers.
I'll give them once to be the web thing to put in the show notes.
It's certainly what I've been using for the last five, three or four years to do my home automation.
Typically, you can just use your basic commands like each of your light switches
or your appliance modules or lighting, lamp modules, etc.
You're given a dress too.
Now, they use the Avenue Merit system where you've got...
You can use A through P and then one through 16.
So, that gives you roughly 256 combinations that, you know,
of modules you can have in your house, which is more than adequate for anyone.
And it's simply a matter of on the command line typing,
how you on and then there might be a one if the lights are on your brand record.
A one or you can use Aliases.
You can set up Aliases and say, Veranda,
simply a matter of typing, how you on Veranda.
You know, you can do all depending on the actual module that's controlling the lights.
You might like the dimmer, no, that sort of stuff.
It's extremely configurable.
You can use all different scripts.
What you can do is it sits there waiting,
then you might set up a script.
So, when you send, say, the house code A16,
then how you listen for that,
and that will trigger some form of scripts.
And the script can be like...
I've wrote a few back scripts that just perform numerous functions all in a row.
The other thing it can do is launch anything on the command line as well.
And often instead of like in the afternoon,
instead of going through and closing all the curtains and the blinds
and turning on all the lights in the house and maybe dimming them,
I just have a simple script in there that often goes.
And as soon as I hit the A16,
then it starts to run the script.
It also plays users' festival to play text files
that have also put on the computer,
which is more or less just for a bit of fun,
something to the effect of.
Good evening, Mr.
and Mrs. Cross,
for your convenience,
I am about to initiate collecting sequence,
close the blinds and curtains.
I do so.
Hope you enjoy your evening.
So, when we have people,
I have a people really get a giggle out of that,
sort of stuff,
and I often just change it to say their name,
and et cetera, like that.
Now, the other thing you can do is,
you can set up scenes.
And once again, it's pretty similar.
You might want to say,
when we're about to watch TV,
I just set up a scene called Rammance.
And as soon as I type how you Rammance,
then off it goes,
which you will then close up all the curtains
and blinds,
or turns all the moodlights on,
it will turn the lounge room lights on
and dim them to 50%,
and it will launch the myth box.
So, you know, it really is a versatile stuff.
Two people is lying on the bench,
and there's rent stockings,
one thing through pleasure, you know.
Oh, shit.
Get that one.
What's up?
What's up?
What's up?
Stupid machine.
Come on, can you cut that out, please?
Anyway, so this all integrated really well
with the X10 stuff.
And X10 is cheap.
It's certainly,
when you start looking at stuff like this.
Hey, Mayor,
I think you oughta go in and have a bend for that.
That wasn't me.
That was that rotten computer.
I'll be having the word to you later.
But anyway,
once you get into, like,
obviously, the C-Wave and C-Bus,
you start to spend thousands of dollars on your house.
With Linux and X10,
you can really set up your house
for a few hundred dollars,
especially lights.
If all you want to do is lights,
which is typically what most people
are going to want to do,
then it's not going to cost a lot of money.
Once you start getting into doing curtains and blinds
and stuff,
it does tend to get a little bit more expensive
because of the controllers and the motors involved in that.
Now, X10,
yeah, sure it's cheap,
and it has its drawbacks.
Specifically,
the worst one is it's only one way communication.
So, if I go to turn on, say,
the pump outside to transfer water,
then when the transmitter sends the signal
to the module on that particular PowerPoint,
that module doesn't send feedback to say,
yes, I received a signal I have turned on.
When you get into the very expensive stuff like C bus,
it's too late.
So, it sends the signal,
it then waits for a reply from that module saying,
yes, I've turned on.
X10 doesn't do that.
Now, to fix some of the problems,
they came out with X10 too.
And what that does is they introduce the things.
Firstly, it's got soft start on and off.
So, when you turn your lights on,
they come on full bright.
They come on very slowly
and increase in ambience up into whatever the preset was.
And that is just push for starters.
It looks good when your lights turn on and off like that.
Also, they have built-in signal filters
and can receive the X10 signal down to about 25 millivolts.
Previously, it was about 100 millivolts and stuff like that.
So, I would have said once upon a time,
it's probably only about 80 percent efficient,
you could turn on something and maybe pending on,
if you got the microwave on or something,
the other thing wouldn't come on.
Now, with the latest ones,
with what they've put into like this noise filter and et cetera,
you know, it's very rare that something doesn't come on.
Anyway, if you're in the market,
it's certainly worth having a look at you anyway.
And like I said, it's affordable for most people.
Peter, wasn't there a guy working for IBM?
I think in Europe that was working on the same type of program
that he had centers with his doors and windows
and could tell if the window was left open
or things like that he could turn the heat down.
Oh, yeah, certainly.
This is like, I can go to Mum and Dad's house
and SSH into my machine at home
and turn the exterior lights on, turn the air conditioner on,
as we lay there so the house has lit up
and that when I get home.
And this is, I'm not sure what system he would have used,
but I guarantee it certainly wouldn't be any cheaper
than what you could do with the X-10G.
Well, they were designing this system,
the article I had read,
this guy and numerous guys that work for the company
were designing all kinds of little gizmos and stuff
to put into the system.
Yeah, well, there's quite a few in the market.
A month ago, you even had to play with this area
and turn more lights on all the way from America.
Yeah, that's pretty neat.
And really, it didn't take that long from the Tonya.
I think you used to web,
we set up that one of the web interfaces for it, didn't we?
Just to give it a try.
I didn't think there was lag because as soon as I hit the switch
I could see your lake come on in the camera.
Yeah, well, that's right.
On the same system, I've got that Zane Monde set up.
Yeah, that's right.
So it really is a very impressive little application.
What's the base of the score speeder?
Would you say it was a box that you put in a wall?
Well, to start off with,
it's a computer interface module.
In Australia, that's called a CM12 cost around $80.
In America, you're probably going to look at about $20.
So that's called a CM11.
There is a cheaper thing you can get,
which is called a firecracker,
which is plugged into the USB port.
And then it actually sends the RF signal out to a receiver,
whereas the computer interface module plugs into the power point
and it directly inputs the signal into your power lines.
But the modules, just to give you an example,
I bought a eight controller mini switch
for the put on the wall the other day.
That cost me about $90.
In America, I was just having a look at X10 over there last night,
and the same thing is $12.
So that's a 12 port controller that we said?
Well, it's called a eight switch mini controller.
I think that is actually what it's called.
But what that does is it goes on the wall,
and also when you're dealing with infrared,
like your harmony remote,
that's going to control all your home entertainment system,
you need to make to turn that infrared signal into a signal
to put into the power lines.
And there's a few things available.
One of them is this control module,
which is just a switch port that goes on the wall,
and it can control with the buttons on 16 modules,
but it can receive the signal from your harmony remote
for the whole 256.
And you need a PC with this, right?
Well, well, the X10 can be operated without the PC, right?
You can simply have a remote control, a receiver module,
and then just send module art commands off,
to each individual module,
just to turn it on and off and dim it.
Right, but you want to do it.
Yeah, automatically, exactly.
That's when, first of all, you can program the CM12.
Now, my CM12 is programmed so the exterior lights
come on at half an hour past dusk,
and we'll run for two hours.
And of course, because you're using dusk and dawn,
and you're putting in your GPS coordinates,
and then it knows we are in the world,
and that's what time, dusk, and dawn is at that particular time,
so it's changing on the time.
You don't just say, come on at six o'clock,
because obviously in summer, at six o'clock,
it's still very bright.
You say half an hour past dusk.
So you can program the CM12 via HAU,
and there's an X10 schedule,
which is a simple text file that you go and write out
in a specific way,
and then you use HAU to upload that to your CM12 into the E-Prom,
and then that'll sit there.
You can disconnect your computer,
but that will run through those sequences that you programmed.
Maybe open and close your blinds in the morning
and in the afternoon as well.
Cool.
But Peter, give me a mental image of like,
where's everything plugged in?
How does it control all this?
Okay, yeah.
There's several ways to try to do it.
You can buy just a module,
which is very similar to a double adapter.
So for any lamps or appliances,
the unplugged from the wall,
you put in this module.
It looks exactly like a double adapter.
You know what a double adapter is?
Like a grounding adapter.
Like a little box between the plug and the wall socket.
So you might just put that for your lamps, etc.
But then I've actually gone and replaced all my lights,
which is in the house with light switches
that have built-in control modules.
Right.
Now, if you don't want to do that,
you can then go and remove the
your current existing light switches.
You can buy a little mini digital controls
that fit between your lights and the switch.
And that goes in the wall cavity.
So, you know,
and all the new ones are just tiny.
They're all micro devices.
I've just put a link.
I buy a lot of my stuff from this mod here,
because they're really cheap.
But this will give you a sort of idea of the lights,
which is in the modules I'm talking about.
But if you get it, I think it's just called x10.com.
In America, you'll see more or less what I'm talking about.
Yeah.
I was wondering how this work with that Shiva plug, Peter.
You know, that little thing that plugs in the wall
that's a computer.
Yeah. When we first talked about that,
that was one of the things I mentioned.
It could purely run HA-U,
and just be...
Well, certainly my Mythbox runs HA-U,
because the Mythbox is on most of the time anyway.
Yeah, but certainly I'd love to get a Shiva
and make that a dedicated HA-U box.
And I totally love it.
I've seen it down to self,
and this thing is cool.
I mean, it looks like a...
It looks like a...
I'm trying to think...
You ever see them adapters,
you plug into your wall,
it turns two outlets into six.
Yeah.
It looks just like that,
except, I mean, it's approximately that same size.
And the guy told me that...
I was talking to that Brian down there,
and he said the thing's got 512 mega RAM in it,
and it runs a one gigahertz processor
in this little thing,
and it is slick.
Yeah, we talked about...
talked about them on cranks of wall back,
and yeah, it certainly
have the horsepower to be out to run HA-U,
that's for sure.
Yeah, and it's got a USB,
you know, it's got USB,
where you can put an external hard drive on it,
if you wanted to.
It has the, you know,
the network connection on it,
and you could even run that,
you know, right out of your wall,
and just pop it right into thing.
It's slick.
Yeah.
I'm just posted in there,
a couple of things you can have a look at the actual modules,
and that must have been...
This post, this is like what you'll see when you're operate.
HA-U has a monitor thing,
as well, that you can have running,
and it just tells you everything that's been addressed in the house,
and what's going on.
I'll just post that there,
so you can have a look at it.
How many is it there?
How much look at...
Is that a GUI program,
or is it just a command line program?
No, it's a HA-U.
You can get the web in this,
about four, I think, listed on the HA-U side,
but like I said,
there's no use for them.
And that's just what you'll be looking at when you're actually using it.
Well, I have to...
Hold on, I have to make a note here.
I have to put a piece of paper in the packet upon a wall,
so I remember HA-U, so, you know.
Sorry, Bill.
For some reason.
For some reason.
To get started with this,
just say for one outlet,
okay, you need the one controller to plug in.
Now, what plug's into your computer?
I can't...
The bad minimum you get on the page,
you get on the page,
you're talking to get started with the computer.
Yeah?
Okay.
Well, the firecracker is the cheapest way.
Now, what the firecracker does,
it's exactly the same.
I'd imagine when you hold a remote in your hand,
the Marmotek remote is a RF remote.
Right?
So, it uses radio frequency instead of infrared.
The firecracker on the back of the computer is the same thing.
And then you need the one receiver.
And that's an RF receiver plugged into a wall somewhere.
And then you just go and buy your module.
Whatever module.
So, it might be the one leantre module that does your lights.
So, three things.
And there are start-up packs of, you know, that you can buy.
That has a couple of bayonet lighting modules
and remote control and the receiver.
But really, for any geek,
you're going to want to buy the CM-11 or CM-12,
which is the computer module that is wired through the USB port.
A programmable PC interface module.
That's what it's called.
Well, what's different between that and a firecracker then?
Well, the firecracker is only 10 and out infrared signals.
The radio frequency signals to the receiver.
The actual PC interface has onboard e-prompt that you can program.
It also directly sends the signal straight
because it's plugged into the wall.
It's sending a straight into the wall socket.
You wouldn't need a receiver.
RF receiver module over each unit.
You mean for each thing that you want to plug in?
No, no, you only need one.
One receiver module.
You need some way of getting the signal into the power lights.
Whether it be through the PC module.
An RF receiver module or that eight mini eight controller
that I said I've got on the wall.
As long as you can get the signal in from a remote or something once,
then it travels through your power lines to every single module on your house.
Right, but you have to put each module on, correct?
Yeah, that's right.
At each power point or whatever, yeah.
You put a module.
Yeah.
Yeah, sorry.
I thought you were talking about each module had to,
each outlet had to have a receiver module.
But it's only one receiver to get from your remote or whatever.
Right, but each device that you want to control has to have a module.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
And how much are they?
Well, it depends on the type you're going to use.
You know, a bayonet socket I think you can buy for $20.
These lights switches I've got on my walls are about $110 each.
So it depends on which way you want to go about doing it.
Yeah, because that's a lot, $110 each, holy crap.
Yeah, but you can get out, you can go the other way.
I got them because they've got, they do a lot more than just turning your light on and off.
Yeah, they'll dim it.
It's like a dimmer, right?
It's a programmable dimmer, basically.
Yeah, that's right.
That can be controlled differently.
They also, they glow finely at night and they handle a lot more power.
I think they'll handle up to 600 watts.
Question for you, though, do they work on fluorescence?
Okay, fluorescence, you actually have to go not for a lighting module.
You have to go to the motor module, right?
Control module.
No, I will not the motor module, but the power module.
Like the same module you use for a juggle or something,
which are rated to about 1,200 watts.
Yeah, because see, they make special dimmers here for fluorescence because of that problem.
Yeah.
Okay, so you can't see that.
It's going to screw up, see in this country, nobody will do it because
everybody's putting his comeback for essence and you know, God, you know,
you're going to spend more money on these dimmers and oh, my God.
Yeah, people are crazy.
People don't want to dim.
People don't want to dim them anyway.
People don't want to dim for fluorescent lights.
And these days, people are going away from fluorescent lights.
Or am I sure you're lighting now and a lot of my interior lighting,
I've moved over to LED.
Any light inside the house that I don't want to dim,
I've moved over to LED.
Surface Mount LEDs.
All the exterior lights.
Surface Mount LEDs on my flood lights outside.
Before where I had 150 watt flood light,
I have replaced now with Surface Mount LEDs that are drawing,
I think, about six watts.
So before when the kangaroos set off a couple of, you know,
my flood lights where it's stuck in 500 watts,
I used to get a bit worried that these things were burning all night
because the kangaroos are feeding on the front lawn.
Now it doesn't matter what the LED is.
They can run all night.
Who cares?
It's only drawing a couple of cents worth of electricity.
Yeah, but how's the light output compared to a fluorescent?
I mean, the lumens is going to be different.
Yeah, it's not as good, clearly.
But to light up the house outside when you're just, you know,
what are you doing?
You want to walk from the car to the brand,
do you want to sit out on the brand of an evening,
have a cup of coffee?
It's falling.
Yeah, see here, yeah, here, LEDs,
and Jesse James is organising the thing.
Here, LEDs are very expensive here.
I mean, it's not, and you definitely don't get,
see, you know, here, we're looking at something like,
could you use on a fire truck that's going to, you know,
when it lights up your yard,
if you're looking at a burner,
retina's out, you know?
Yeah.
I mean, it's crazy here, people.
Yeah, the bay at one.
Yeah, that's what I was going to say, 330.
Like, yeah, sure, I think,
to replace a downlight that cost me, you know,
a, well, a 35 watt halogen downlight,
because $2.50, I think,
I'm paying about $40.
But, like 330 said,
I put that in there,
I'll never have to worry again,
that will outlast me.
So, let's see, the outdoor compact fluorescence,
the company I used to work for,
they did a big conversion on all these buildings and stuff,
and they put a lot of the exterior compact fluorescence in,
and I mean, I worked for, like,
four years for this company,
and I don't think I ever changed an outdoor bulb
unless it got broke,
because they worked great.
Yeah, well, I think the advantage of LHD,
so you don't have that mercury and stuff in them.
Aren't they standard discover now that fluorescent tubes
aren't very good for the environment,
and are probably worse than incandescent lights to begin with?
Oh, yeah, but, you know,
that doesn't, they don't care about that, you know.
But, you know, you got in this country,
they don't, they,
that's, you know, you worry about that 50 years from now.
Yeah, but anyway, that's another subject,
but anyway, that's, that's your thing.
Bill, Mr. Beak.
You keep saying my real name.
People are going to find out.
Yeah, I'm, I'm sorry.
Once that, the bill, please.
All right, that was pretty cool, Peter.
Yeah, sorry.
Real quick, one question.
Okay, you don't need a computer for this,
so if you're, you can turn your computers off,
or do you have to leave a computer on?
No, that's right.
With, with the, um,
the same 12-inch programable,
so now the computer is,
once you program it,
then the computers can get off.
Okay, that's neat.
But you do need a computer to program it,
in the beginning.
Yeah, definitely.
All right.
Wonderful story, wonderful story.
Any more questions?
Or we move on?
All right.
All right, Pigwall.
All righty.
Well, I was actually looking for a topic to discuss.
I ran across this article,
and I thought it was so awesome that I,
I should, um,
people at MIT,
they created a camera out of cloth.
I was talking with Peter 64 about this one earlier,
and he said it's absolutely amazing
what they can do these days.
Uh, the article starts out.
The ultimate spy camera
would allow someone to walk into a room
recording everything they see,
and no one would ever know a camera
was present on their body.
Not even after a search was conducted.
A new fiber created by researchers at MIT
could provide such a solution.
MIT researchers have managed to create a fiber
that can be woven into a cloth capable of detecting light,
and so doing it may be possible in future
to record images with the fabric connected to a computer,
meaning a suit made from this stuff
could record information in all directions around the wearer.
Professor Yoey Fink,
lead researcher in the project,
has already demonstrated such a fabric,
capturing the image of a smiley face,
commenting on the new material he said,
this is the first time that anybody has demonstrated,
such a, or that, I can't read,
that a single plane of fibers or fabric
can collect images just like a camera,
but with that a lens.
This work constitutes a new approach to vision and imaging.
A mixture of semiconductor material,
metal electrodes,
and a polymer insulator help to make up the fiber
which is created in a furnace that most them together.
The fibers are then formed into a mesh,
which can measure light intensity
and turns it into an electrical signal.
These signals are read by a computer
and formed into an image.
At the moment, that image is black and white.
The research will continue and is back
by the armor research office,
meaning soldiers wearing suits that record surroundings,
maybe one of the first applications.
Of course.
I will paste that into the chat.
I will put in the IRC.
There you go.
When they speak, well,
and then what we talked about,
that's printable batteries the other day.
See, it's just kind of wonder where it's all going to stop.
It's not going to stop.
We live an exciting time, don't we?
Oh, yeah.
Fast.
You know, the problem is though,
you go back to the basics.
They still can't make a battery that's going to last,
and they can't make a battery that's going to
hold the charge for a long period of time.
I mean, that's something that's been for a long time.
I mean, with all these new technologies,
there's still having problems with basics.
Yeah, that's a good point.
Seems like they ought to spend a little bit of time
on some of these basic things,
like developing batteries that actually
can hold the charge and getting, you know,
optical media so that it doesn't fail
every other burn or just whatever, you know.
Well, certainly laptops and mobile phones
are going to help a long way to make
and battery technology take off.
Yeah, they're...
I mean, look, we've gone from what nickel cadenium,
any of you, years ago, to lithium polymer,
or lithium ion.
Yeah, whatever the next one's going to be, yeah.
Yeah, but you see that lithium ion
has been out for a long time,
and they still haven't...
they still haven't perfected it.
That's the problem they're having with these cars,
is batteries.
Did there was a thing on security now?
Steve Gibson was talking about
they have a capacitive recharge system
that they're working on
that's going to do away with batteries.
I mean, this is basically restructuring
the whole concept of a capacitor.
Personally, I think it'd be really cool, though,
to actually have some of this fabric
and have it working.
Could you imagine how small you can make security cameras?
Did you imagine what you could do with them?
So, I would life cast with it.
I was thinking more about...
Oh, and I've been on sale.
In a bit.
You know, it'll be nice for police
and security situations, I think, really.
Now we have to do a spare out how to block them.
Pulse generators.
Or infrared LEDs, that might work still.
Yeah.
Well, I'm sure it's got to send out a signal of some sort
and it's got to be like a microwave signal or something.
So, what happens if you put your shirt on backwards?
Then everybody gets to see your boogie.
Ooh, he said a bad word.
It's okay as long as you don't put your pants on backwards.
Yeah.
Ah, the cloth camera.
Finally, and truly eliminating the crisscross style.
Well, so far it's just like literally like a proof of concept on the list.
Yeah, it's a prototype right now.
Okay.
But they are using it.
They are using it in the field.
No, they're not using it.
Testing it.
I mean, they're not testing it.
But this is all laboratory then.
Yeah, because they said one guy recorded the image of a happy face.
That's as far as they've gotten so far.
Would it tell you you find a happy face anymore?
Yeah, I don't know.
That screen shot from a computer that was printed out.
I don't know.
Maybe he was talking about his own face being happy that they worked.
Yeah.
See, I do believe it said it was just a regular smiley face.
It could be because of the bright color.
That could be why it picked it up so well.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's just regular smiley face.
Of course, it was probably 10 feet in diameter, you know.
That's okay as long as they continue doing something.
You know, and it's not one of these projects that, you know, 10 years from now, you hear.
Oh, yeah, they're working on this fabric that takes pictures, you know.
200 years ago, we had the smallpox blanket sent to, you know, people's biological warfare.
200 and some years in the future, we'll have the camera blanket.
Nice.
So then we can tape the people that we give smallpox to?
Not any of that, but you can see how they're suffering with it.
Yeah, and make it a pay-per-view event.
There you go.
That's how we'll get the economy back online.
All right.
I guess it's really all I have on that one.
All righty, 330, you're up.
All right, well, I'm going to talk about something that is a little more usable
currently than the fabric camera.
I've been playing with the HTML5 video markup stuff that made it into Firefox 3.5
and a couple of other browsers.
What this basically does is makes flash completely not necessary.
You have to ask you how you're making out with that.
It's actually running really well.
If you go to numberedhumanindustries.com slash video and you're running Firefox 3.5,
you'll see Dan Washco from last Ohio Linux best.
I have more we can talk about that, but there's some cool things you can do too.
If you wanted to have a viewer video, then the tag you'd use is video space
src evil and purchase.
This is the sake of argument.
We'll call it ambience.org in quotes.
Space controls.
And then you just close the screen.
And you'll just aid.
So we know with who's like this.
Is it me or is he skipping?
He's skipping.
He's probably watching the video.
Yeah, I thought it was me.
Your battery's not going dead, is it?
No, it's not.
You're still there?
Yeah, I'm trying to kill several things to help.
Will you think you're in your cell phone?
No, I'm on the N800.
Am I sounding better yet?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
It's kind of fine.
Okay.
But what you do is it looks like standard HTML.
You've got the greater than and less than brackets.
But if you're unlike me and you want everyone to be able to see your video,
because not everyone is going to have the theoretical codecs,
unless something magical happens,
and they actually get this thing passed in the HTML5 spec,
what you can do is have it degrade gracefully to either MP4
or all the way down to a flash video.
And let's stick this in the IRC.
There's a little hacks story on how to do it.
And it actually really is cool.
If you go to a number of human industries.com,
slash video,
and something that, like if you use Firefox 3, just 3.0,
the only video you'd see is the video of me explaining,
hey, if you don't have Firefox 3.5,
you can't see anything but this video,
because it downgrades itself to a flash video that's hosted on YouTube.
And if you do have Firefox 3.5,
you get to see everything that I've posted to YouTube
like the last year and a half,
because I folded all down and converted it.
Okay.
So the idea this is to get Firefox 3.5?
Yeah.
There are some other browsers that are doing it.
There's a version of Opera that does it.
What I found on the web is that Opera 9.52 will do it.
And one of the versions of Chrome will do it.
And in three years, Internet Explorer will do it.
I figured that IE and everybody else will do it
as soon as this is all ratified.
There's some in-fighting right now.
All the browser makers are arguing whether it should be
CORN, Vorbis, or H.264.
But Mozilla for Firefox 3.5 went ahead and just put both of them in.
Well, and that's the good thing about this.
I mean, because actually, last I heard they had removed the codec requirements
from the spec.
Like they said, okay, you know, you can put in brackets, video or audio or whatever,
but in terms of saying, okay, in order to be a spec browser,
you have to have these codecs available.
They've removed that from the HTML 5 spec.
That's from InfoWorld on July 2nd, so I don't know, maybe something new has happened.
But the cool thing is, anyway, that the browser can still utilize it and say, yeah,
we're going to support this, you know, like Firefox 3.5 is doing.
So cool browsers will enable this no matter what.
I said, one of the things, this is actually really easy to do.
I know pretty much next to nothing about programming for the web,
and I was able to do it.
I mean, my website is all flat files.
Yeah, I'm looking at it right now in Firefox 3.5, and works perfect.
I like the interface.
Yeah, and one cool thing is, if you have scripting disabled,
like if you're running no script or something,
you can actually just allow the one, you know, just the video section.
Yeah, if you right-click on it, and it won't show you the controls,
but you can right-click, and the controls are all in your right-click menu.
Cool.
Yeah, that's cool, because you can have saved video as,
or you can send videos to someone by email.
Yeah, because it's just the streaming the or a file.
Yeah, this would be cool.
You should replace this flash someday.
You should have stream a video of your cat singing in the kitchen.
If I can catch him doing it, I will.
We just heard him.
Yeah, I got to catch him on video, though.
Any more questions on this one?
Come on out there, so I wanted to sway.
You're just on standby?
Yeah.
Why?
How about you, Claught?
Do you have anything for us?
Yeah, I don't know if you guys have heard about the Hadoppi router.
Has anyone heard of that yet?
No.
All right, so this is not really a hardware router.
It's just firmware for the OpenWRT.
But it was written up about in the Monde in France.
And apparently some group, I think it's like,
I forget the name of this little group that's putting this out.
But it is a firmware for your OpenWRT.
And its sole purpose is to look at local wireless routers in your area,
in your apartment building, in your neighborhood, whatever.
And just automatically crack the passwords of all the routers
that it can see.
And then it will utilize different routers for things like torrenting
and I guess whatever else you want to do.
And the purpose of it is, of course, too.
I guess not anonymize what you're doing,
but spreading the wealth of what you're doing around
or the blame of what you're doing around.
And apparently the instigator of this firmware was that,
well, you know, the whole torrenting debate, I guess,
in the fact that some people are being persecuted, I guess,
for torrenting copyright and material, such like that.
As far as I know, the firmware isn't available yet for download,
but it is something that's being developed, I guess.
And it's pretty much ready to go from what they're saying.
And this opened WRT firmware, so it's called Hadapi H-A-D-O-P-I.
And it's supposed to be out there.
And I like it because it's just like, you know,
the more they try to clamp down on stupid stuff like torrenting
and copyright and intellectual property, you know,
the more the hacker community finds ways around it.
And that's really, really important, I think.
What routers does it work on?
Well, I guess the open WRT is what?
Like, it's a couple of different routers, right?
There's a couple of the different...
Linksys routers, yeah.
Yeah, so I don't know which...
That's a DDWRT, right?
That firmware?
Yeah, but yeah, yeah, exactly.
Yeah, that works on quite a few of them, I think.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure.
Okay, so this is firmware all by itself,
or do I still need this to add to...
You guys keep saying DDWRT and open WRT.
Those are firmwares, too.
So you would need that firmware to use this?
I'm not sure.
I believe so, yes.
I believe that is correct.
Or maybe it's just based on open WRT.
I'm not really sure.
You might be able to use it anywhere where that will work,
that DDWRT will be open.
Yeah, that could be it as well.
Yeah, it may work under the same principle, you know.
I mean, I'm sure it's...
Well, I'm sure it's...
They probably just took an open WRT and added some stuff to it.
You know, I would imagine.
I mean, I don't see why they would have to reinvent everything from the ground up.
Oh, no, you know they didn't do that.
They just probably ripped up part of the code and added a few more little tricks to it.
Yeah.
I mean, it's just a good way, I think, to confound, you know,
people who are trying to really monitor people and, you know, say,
oh, you can't do this on them and that you can't do that.
You can't use this.
You know, it's just...
Well, that's what it helped.
This would have helped that mother, right?
It's getting good for the 26 songs.
Exactly.
But the proverbial, you know, small town midwestern people
who are getting sued for accidentally downloading latest, you know, whatever song.
Yeah, this is exactly that kind of thing.
And like Jesse Jans and the chatroom just pointed out.
Yeah, it would kind of be...
It would kind of suck to be the neighbor, you know,
who got the password cracked and is now torrenting, you know,
random stuff without your knowledge.
But at the same time, you know, it's really...
I don't know, it's almost...
I mean, it's really people standing together
whether they know it or not, you know,
to really just say, no authorities,
you're not going to be able to track us all down.
You know?
Now granted, that's not like a big community agreeing on standing together and saying,
yeah, let's open up our network and share all the bandwidth
and just totally, you know, we're all, you know,
do, you know, everything that's illegal
and they can't take us all down.
Well, it's just like with the radar detectors
and the, you know, the speed guns, I mean, it's the same thing.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
You know, one one gets this and then another one makes the thing to detect that
and they make a better speed gun and the Audi Audi Audi.
We're saying the process, they do come up with some good stuff sometimes
so it's got to really is beneficial.
And what's cool about this is...
Yeah, your, you know, your neighbor will get a cease and desist
and, you know, CFBI will kick in their door and everything.
But nothing should happen to them because there will be absolutely no evidence
that anything happened.
And they're not going to have the files.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, it's...
So really all you're doing is costing the government and the collusion squad
or whatever you want to call them.
Yeah, the APAA, RIA, other things ending in AA.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's going to cost them money.
Yeah.
It's just...
No, it's going to cost us money.
Oh, because they're not government agencies.
Yeah, but yeah, they're...
But yes, it would technically trigger down if it was costing like the FBI money
to come and bust people's doors down.
Although I question how often that happens anyway, number one.
And number two, you know, I mean, it's going to cost us all the fight, you know, the government.
Yeah.
I think.
So who cares?
Let it cost a little bit of extra.
We're going to pay taxes no matter what.
It doesn't matter.
Yeah.
And the more of this kind of crap happens, the less likely it is that they're actually going to go kick people's doors.
Right.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How many doors you kick down with innocent people sitting in there before you go, you know what?
Let's not kick doors down.
Yeah.
Exactly.
I think most of the time they're getting all their information through the net anyway.
I don't think they're, you know, they're just putting either through the internet service provider or whatever.
They're just...
They're just playing man in the middle getting your information.
Yeah.
And wouldn't you be going, hey, wow, my net traffic is really slow today.
Well, yeah.
But a lot of people aren't even going to...
You're not even going to...
Well, a lot of people aren't even going to know.
I mean, they know that the internet is slow.
They don't even know how to call the...
They're not going to call their provider and ask about it or anything, you know.
Right.
And most people wouldn't even do a speed check on their system.
Yeah.
See, I love to yell at Comcast though.
So I totally would.
Well, so would I.
Yeah, because Comcast, I hate, but...
Exactly.
That's us.
We're not the ones...
We're not the ones...
You know, we're going to be the ones running the system right out the ones...
No, they're really being hacked via it all the time.
We're the ones that should have the boss enough password for this not to happen.
Yeah, like password and the max filtering and the...
Everything else that you can think of.
So is there a road map on when this is going to be released?
Not that I can find.
I didn't...
I haven't really looked around all that much because I don't have a compatible router anyway.
But apparently, it'll be soon.
That's all I've got for you.
Hey, look here if you go to...
I'm just going to stick this in the IRC so that they can end up in the show notes.
Because I'm not even going to try to pronounce that.
But it's basically Hadoppi router in France, in French.
But supposedly you can buy one for 50 euros.
Well, there you go.
And it's red.
Yeah.
I'm a little meat.
Ferrari red.
Yeah, dangerous.
Pretty shiny.
Well, for shiny, that means I need it.
You were just hacked.
Yeah.
Here's another one on hackerspace.dat called the Hostel WRT.
Looks like somebody talked about it at...
...a French hackerspace festival on June 26th.
Somebody did a talk about it.
Yeah, I guess it's happening...
I mean, obviously it's happening in France because some French do get it.
But I guess part of the thing is that over in France, there's a limitation as to how quickly these kinds of charges can be brought against people or something.
And it's...
I guess it takes a lot of legal...
You have to really have a lot of evidence that they...
Like, 330 was saying that they actually downloaded the file and have it on their system.
And if the judges can't see that that's the case within a certain amount of time and they can't do...
...they can't pass a judgment against the person, so it's just kind of like...
I don't know.
I guess it takes advantage of some kind of heavy, costly bureaucratic system, you know, that's inefficient as usual.
But I figured it would be just as useful over here.
Oh, absolutely.
You guys remember that router project that was kind of starting up maybe a year ago, I think?
And it was like some feel where you got this free router and like, you know, quote-unquote have...
Yeah, an era.
What is it called?
Funera.
Okay.
Whatever happened to that, is that still...
It's still running around.
They'll give you a free router as long as you're willing to share the connection with everyone.
Yeah, I mean what?
What?
Share the network connection?
Yeah.
Basically, the idea is you leave it open and they... they give you a router.
Well, good is that.
If your neighbor is bit-door and if you're...
You have to be a member.
You can set it up.
You can set it up so that they have to be...
It really depends.
Oh, you have to configure all the settings and who's allowed and who's not.
No, I think it's a WPA login.
And if your neighbor bought into it, he can share yours.
Or some of these in the area, I thought.
Right.
No, that's one of the options that you have, yes.
You can also charge people for it and try to make money off of it.
Or you can just set it up and say, okay, it's open.
And I believe you get like...
I believe you have some kind of virtual...
Maybe a virtual network that people aren't allowed on to or something like that.
But some way of configuring it so that your signal's kind of split into two.
I guess ESS ID is or something like that.
Not really.
I'm not sure.
And I'm kind of working off of memory anyway.
But yes.
You're getting two different IP addresses then?
Yeah.
I could be wrong about that.
But yeah, I do remember that there were like three different configurations that you could choose from.
Like one where it was open for everyone.
One where it was open for anyone who is also a member of this scenario thing.
And then one where you can actually make money by setting up sort of a...
I guess like one of those hotspots, you know,
where they can actually sign up and pay, I don't know...
I'm not coming ISD then, basically.
No, you've become an access point.
I mean like a T-Mobile hotspot or something like that at a Starbucks or something.
Okay.
Or at the...
Well, a Wi-Fi like McDonald's.
Yeah, exactly.
You know, where you pay $2.99?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, man.
Yeah, I didn't know if it was still around, but I guess it is.
I guess it is.
I guess it is.
I'm trying to do a Google search on it.
I can't get to spelling right.
Was it Benara that we said?
I hear it.
F-O-N dot com.
Just go to F-O-N dot com.
And yeah, it looks like it's on Benara 2.0.
Yeah, yeah.
These phone users get two secure signals.
One for personal, one for public use.
Or you can make an average of three euros a month.
Wow.
Three euros a month for selling Wi-Fi access.
Yeah, this is different than what I was thinking of.
Because one I was thinking of.
I can't think of the name.
Were you bought the router and you set it up to share with people?
No, I think that's...
I think that's this as well.
I think that's the third option on here.
I'm pretty sure.
Because I'm pretty sure I remember that as well.
Where if you're all a member of Fonera and you can go and you get the password for...
I don't know, yeah.
Yeah, if you had a community though, it says there's three different ways to do it.
Yeah, it also gives you a list of different Fonera hotspots.
That's cool.
Oh, people that already have one up and running, you mean?
Yeah.
I would be interested to know what the little ESFID shows up as for those Fonera ones.
Because I know that even from like Cupertino to Pittsburgh, to New York, to Maryland, I've seen...
I keep seeing like the same...
Some of the same ESFIDs.
And I know a lot of them are like the default links to names and stuff like that.
But there are a couple that I don't really...
I don't associate with any brand.
And I just wonder if they could possibly be Fonera or something similar or just some no name brand of router that I had never seen before.
What do you mean the IP addresses?
No, like there's the names of the network, so the name of the broadcast, you know, signal.
So we're all over the United States, I'm looking at the map.
There's a lot of them.
Somebody has to join this thing, just to play around with it.
Ooh, you're gonna be a hotspot, eh?
No, why not?
But if you're useful, you get to use the rest of the network when you're out and about.
Right, if you have fun taking.
Wow, there's a lot in Chicago.
They're everywhere.
Ah, did you just say hotspot?
Yeah.
Two minutes.
Feen.
Oh.
We don't have any that dirty talker in here.
Somebody needs to cut so he doesn't pick on people.
Somebody who volunteer.
Well, I think Piggwell's just gone for a family.
Humanindustries.com slash video and watch Dan's ass.
That's where it's the track.
It didn't work.
Any more questions about that router, funera thing before we move on?
Nothing?
All right.
Do you lens you still awake?
Yes, sir.
Do you have a story or a topic?
Yeah, I was gonna comment quickly on a set of links.
There's been some talk recently in the RRC about learning programming.
And I'm not sure if everybody's aware, but a lot of the big universities,
they put their content up on the web for free.
Like MIT, UC Berkeley, Stanford, some of them have audio video.
And even if they don't, you know, you can get a lot out of reading their notes,
the slides, the exams.
But the video really does help in learning process when you can see somebody actually doing it on the board.
You know, I think it was Harvard that is actually doing a lot of their stuff in AUG.
See what I know.
A lot of their classes, although I don't have a link for it.
Yeah, there are a lot of them that are going creative commons with their material, too.
That's cool.
Wow, this is really cool.
I mean, MIT, that touch it seems.
I don't know.
That's the end even Berkeley.
I mean, those are two pretty big...
That was Stanford that was going AUG with a lot of their stuff, actually.
Know what I see?
That written out there.
Remember it's Stanford.
For them to save those links.
That piece then, you put it in how long will they remain in this piece then?
That one's set for a month.
Okay, cool.
Because that way it might take me a couple days before I get to show up.
So are there audio clips, too?
Or is it all video?
Yeah, some of them are audio.
You really have to look through it because it's like a mixture.
Some of them have video.
Some of them have audio.
Wait.
Anything else?
I don't know.
That's it.
Cool.
Sorry, monster.
But just a second.
Hey, well, did you just go make sandwiches?
I did.
Did you offer everyone else any?
That's a sandwich violation in the bin, two minutes.
Did you give your time to eat your sandwich?
Damn, Sheriff.
If you're still in the art, you could join them.
Have a sandwich with you.
Oh, jeez.
Well, he was going to go next, but I guess as much.
You're going to have to go next.
I was going to save you for last.
But since art's in the bin.
Oh, really.
I was going to save the best for last.
Oh, well.
What I've been thinking about this week is just how lucky we are on Linux.
You can take a computer that somebody else has thrown away.
Put Linux on it.
And you have all these games.
And just about any repo that from any distro you can choose.
And you can keep a six-year-old busy for years.
And it costs nothing.
And what I particularly like is you've got the educational games.
You've got like child's play and tux paint.
And Bell Peter and I were talking about one G-Compress.
These things will, you know, work from age two to age 12.
As well as it does not take a lot of computer to play many of the Linux games.
Like I've got my six-year-old grandson on a discarded app on 900.
That has a ten-year-old 3D graphics card in it.
That works wonders on games like torques and tux racer, super tux card, super tux, tangus.
And it's all free.
How can you beat that?
It really is just another area that Linux shines.
It just goes to show that you don't have to spend a lot of money to accomplish a task.
All those games that you mentioned might daughter, you know, start off playing and still plays.
And you also mentioned you don't need a particularly fast machine to do them.
And a lot of my educational and teach the kids what they're having fun, they're learning.
And that's an important aspect of it all too.
Well, in a lot of the games you get them started on young and when they wear out the repos,
they're getting computer savvy enough that they may start wanting to do a little more with a computer.
And they've already gotten rid of any basic fears of it.
You know, even when they get to school, you know, they can use a keyboard and a mouse,
which is probably more than most of the kids in their class can do.
All right, is this correct? I'm looking at you back to repos.
And it's showing in the games section 930 packages.
Yeah, it sounds about right.
I mean, that's amazing.
I never really looked in here for games.
And then is there an educational?
The thing about those games.
Yeah, it has an educational section also.
The educational section is there also.
It's an amazing collection of programs that do wonders.
And it's all free.
And you don't have to spend the fortune on a machine to use it?
No, you can take somebody's cast off and make a machine that'll play these games great out of it.
Well, let's name all 930, you ready?
Okay.
3D chess.
I was just kidding.
So just in terms of running this stuff like on old computers and stuff like that,
I think that I heard that Ohio Linux spec this year is going to have a free geek kind of deal
where people will go and take a sort of learn Linux for an afternoon or whatever and build a computer
and then they get to take home the computers that they built.
So I don't know what kind of, I mean, I think it is being sponsored by free geek.
So it's going to be old or hard where I'm sure.
I mean, that's like a perfect example because yeah, all people are going to learn Linux, build their system,
walk away with the system that they just built with Linux on it to be pretty cool.
Yeah, well let's face it, in the Windows world, you know, anything less than two gigahertz, they discard them.
They don't want them.
They won't run, you know, if they don't have two gigahertz and at least two megabytes of memory,
they won't run anything on the Windows world, not in a way they want them to run.
Yeah, I mean, that was one of the things I remember that kind of turned me off of Mac in the end.
It's just the realization that the software was being released without the choice, you know,
not to have all the with-bang effects and stuff like that that my older systems couldn't run.
And then seeing that Linux, you could have the latest and greatest graphic environment
or you could have no graphic environment, you know, or anywhere in between.
I mean, that's just the huge difference because one is just pushing you away from your old hardware
and the other one is completely making it stay alive and be useful for you.
Well, it sure makes handy downs convenient for Linux, the way they're doing it in the Windows world,
and in the Mac world too.
Yeah, I mean, I've gained more computers, I mean, workable, usable computers,
since I, you know, really got into Linux, than I ever had with Mac,
because obviously with Mac you're always throwing out your old one,
getting your overpriced new one, whereas with Linux, you're like,
you're taking stuff that people are going to throw out, you know,
and putting Linux on it and using it for another five years.
You know, I mean, it's just, it's really cool.
And as a geek who likes gadgets, I mean, that's sort of a deal.
Well, the part that I find the handiest is that instead of my grandson harassing his grandma
to play on her laptop, you know, I've got him on a cast-off computer
and they're in there and he just tickled a death with it.
And it runs the Linux games beautifully.
It's got 256 megabyte of RAM in it.
That's so cool.
It's just a shame how much stuff gets thrown away, though.
I mean, they have, like, over by me in the dump.
They have, like, once every maybe month and a half or two months.
They have a disposal thing for home electronics.
They call it, you know, a TV's.
And I mean, there's piles and piles of computers there.
Well, that's cool, in a way, because you can just take everything that you want.
Really, the real bummer is when people destroy it before they throw it away for no good reason.
Yeah, but a lot of this is thrown right out of a car.
And a lot of it is destroyed before you can even get to it.
Yeah, that's ridiculous. That's a real bummer when they do that.
Because I mean, that's just, I don't know.
And like you said, there's probably computers in their four or five years old,
which, you know, really would run like rockets with Linux.
Yeah, absolutely.
I don't care if it has a hard drive in it.
I mean, you don't even need a hard drive to run a live CD.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, that's why those, like, the free key organizations and stuff like that are important,
because at least they're doing it to get people to turn in their old stuff and redistribute it.
That's a good thing.
Yeah, the sad part is they're like the school that I worked for.
They must have thrown, you know, 100 computers away.
Yeah.
They didn't throw away.
They recycled them.
So they say, you know, and they were all good stuff.
I mean, good, anybody would take them.
Yeah.
And they just know what we can't.
You know, we can't just give them away to people because, you know, they're insurance,
and this and that, and, you know, kiss mine, and this looks crazy.
Well, all the green freaks should be embracing Linux.
Let's face it, it sure saves a lot of heavy metals from the dump peeps.
Yeah, they absolutely should be.
I think a lot of people don't know about it.
You know, they don't realize it's such a big deal, and they don't understand the...
Choose people that's lying on the bench and has rents talking shit to pleasure you.
That's it.
In the bin, five minutes.
Come on, Mayor.
Overrides, it's overrides to Sheriff.
You know what I'm talking about?
That's twice, twice that damn computer comes up.
So what?
You're the Mayor.
It must be four o'clock.
That automatically goes off the four o'clock somewhere.
You know, I'd hate to break into Peter's house.
They would scare the butt Jesus out of somebody.
Him on the bed or to hate you?
I believe in the red stockings.
Yeah.
What you can do is, like, you use the activite when people come over, or at nighttime, whatever.
The activite senses people.
It sends a command to tell your front lights to turn on, because it's just an infrared sensor.
But how you pick that up and runs a script where it just plays a barking dog way far.
It's really brilliant.
It's really used.
What happens when the dog keeps barking the same sound, you know?
They're going to be like, hey, something's wrong here.
Well, you change it.
You got to get a hammer and it goes and bangs up against the door.
That's the key to that.
Oh, shotgun.
Mike is handling shotguns going on.
No, like, the dog's jumping up against the door.
Because that's your topic, Art?
What's that?
The dog jumping up against the door?
Yeah.
Oh, absolutely.
What else you got for us?
Actually, it was going to be anamontane lanyx, but Dan's not here tonight.
What a classic.
That God didn't believe that when I saw that.
Well, that's, no, actually, I didn't believe it either, but just one quick thing.
I was reading an article about the United States Postal Services going open source
with their tracking systems.
And it's really, I mean, the article, I'll post the article in the chat
and people can look at it, but it's, you know, it's booming their tracking system.
I mean, it's really making a big difference for them.
And you can read the article because we don't have much time.
It's nice to see that the United States Postal Services going open source.
Peter, how do I paste and copy here?
You know, can you tell me?
Control C?
Well, you just stick that Postus note right in the middle of your forehead.
So that's right, the Postus note.
Oh, I'm out of that.
And I didn't even use Control C.
So, kiss mine now.
But you used your bloody mask.
You know, someone used menus.
That's right.
And it's a wireless mouth.
And I think it works by our after-signal.
Peter, Georgia, where is that?
Right.
Tell him he's from Georgia.
Oh.
Yeah, that's a, it's, it's, many article.
I went through the article and it's really, it's nice to see that even though the, you know,
I mean, Peter, I thought you'd enjoy reading this.
It's, uh, nobody else, but I really want to.
Yeah, I think it's great.
Hannah Montana, thing with Dan, but he and he's not here, I can't do that.
Well, I want to know about this, uh, Hannah Montana distraught.
What, the distraught?
Oh, you didn't see about it?
No.
Oh, hold on.
Let me, uh...
I'm like, Pysor on Twitter.
I'm like, Pysor there.
I can't remember your time.
Yeah, there's a link.
Here's the link.
There's the link, buddy.
Right there.
My daughter, sir.
She's my daughter.
Yeah.
Um, according to, uh, see here.
According to...
I find out where I had the damn thing up here.
It gives you, uh, what is in it?
It's got a new KTM login screen, new splash screen, a new icon.
It has, uh, new wallpapers.
Um, a 22nd boot time.
Mmm, what else is it got?
It's not the door or something.
Mmm, no, it's on, uh, I don't know.
I thought it was Obdabian.
Yeah, it's based on Kubuntu.
Yeah, that's right, yeah.
There'd be unusual based on the bloody distro on Ubuntu.
Yeah, yeah, really.
Yeah, it's Ubuntu, yeah.
Ubuntu.
It's a remix of Kubuntu.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Yeah, using all of it.
It probably got a henamon 10-up bloody wallpaper.
Oh, yeah, you can see, uh, if you look at the screen shots.
Why did that?
I wonder why they didn't just release this in a series of, like, schemes on, uh, like KDE look or something like that.
I mean, why bother reading mixing it and stuff?
I don't know.
You get a song with it too.
They got a song too, so.
How good to us.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
Peter, your door is going to have this.
Yeah, love it.
Five to one thing.
I'm going to have to sit on Twitter.
Can you see how far to one six?
That's worse than your name's, right, silly?
I don't know.
I was, I had that, I had the laugh when I seen it.
Oh, I mean, it was distinct.
Is Pegwell in the bin?
No, no.
Oh, no.
He's gone back there after saying that.
I think Pegwell's downloading Hannah Montana Linux right now.
Yeah.
No, it's the number one distro for pedophile.
Get on the bin.
What do you mean the bin?
Pegwell was going to get something to drink.
I already got back from that.
Then I offered everyone hookers and blow.
And you know what?
That's it.
You're banned for life.
You're getting me out of here monster boat.
You bitch.
Oh.
I love that.
I love our hookers.
Oh.
It's in Australia.
We have dogs here, sir.
Life, life is one week in titland.
That was rough, but he deserved it.
And I actually just had a worth it.
All right, I heard it's more Britney Spears distros or?
Oh, that pretty well wraps up the game, doesn't it?
Hey, I got a comment on this.
Hannah Montana distro as opposed to, you know, putting it in a KDE look or whatever repository.
Depends on your market audience.
If you're putting this forth to a bunch of Windows users in a distro, the only way that you're going to get it to them.
Because they would know how to use a repository.
And it's also called an x86 basic addition, which really, you know, slims it down.
I mean, it's not slim.
It's 681 megs.
I mean, it's not a small distribution, but of course, it has KDE in it, so.
It's going to be combined with the blame wallpaper.
Oh, absolutely.
What difference is it going to be?
I don't know.
When you download it, you let us know.
Yeah, well, I'm going to have to in here.
You will.
You got nothing to do.
What's the point?
You can do all these distro well.
Check it out for us.
Share a visit, or if I go to the bathroom, do I need permission for that?
No, you're excused.
Did you have a handout when you asked me?
Absolutely, both of them.
Okay, you're excused.
Thank you.
Have another e-book this week.
It's called Ubuntu Pocket Guide and Reference.
It's a free download for all the link in IRC.
I love these free e-books.
It's about 152 pages, seven chapters.
You can also buy it too if you want to buy the printed version.
Hey, that gets put on every machine I put Ubuntu for people.
That's a good idea.
That's right on the desktop.
And do they actually read it?
Or look at it, refer to it.
I tell them you read that if you still have questions, we'll call me.
But read that first.
Yeah.
Must work, they don't call me.
So, how much is the printed version?
Probably 14, 15 bucks.
It's only got what, 300 tips.
It says it can't be any more than 200, 200 pages.
It's $12 on Amazon.
That was a bit.
Nothing, but that would be handy in a printed version.
It would be, yeah.
O'Reilly does have a couple of Pocket Guides that are really good.
Nothing, I don't think there's anything specific for Ubuntu,
just like Linux Pocket Guide and things like that.
It's just the terminology and some more obscure commands
that you might not remember off the top of your head.
Those are pretty cool, the printed versions, I mean.
And I went to Burns and Noble City and seen a Ubuntu user magazine.
It's a brand new magazine out.
It's called Ubuntu user.
Yep.
Really?
The web address is Ubuntu-user.com.
Wow.
That's pretty cool.
I hope it hangs around.
Yeah, me too.
Right, that's neat.
It was a very nice magazine.
Some of the editors are writers in it.
It's John Maddog Hall.
John O'Bacon.
And Marcel, he does the cooking with Linux.
Yeah.
I think on Linux Journal.
Linux Journal, yeah.
I mean, there's a lot of big names in there.
Plus, they have a section there for newbies.
It's called the Discovery Guide.
The only thing is, with these magazines,
they seem to be a little bit pricey.
It's 15 bucks.
Yeah, but you know they have a...
It's a homey.
With them too, you know.
It is an English magazine.
Oh.
No, it's Linux New Media, which does, like, Linux Magazine.
Right.
It is Linux Pro.
Yeah.
I mean, they have the discs with them, which is cool,
because that way you don't have to bother downloading
and that way you also know that your disc is probably good.
Yeah, sometimes when you burn it yourself, you know,
there's something up with it.
I don't know.
Yeah, I like them.
I don't mind spending that kind of money on these magazines.
And it's the same if you get, like,
I don't know what...
There's, like, you know, PC format or Mac,
and then there used to be one for Mac.
I mean, they were pretty expensive,
because they, again, they have the disc with them.
And sometimes they're pretty big magazines, too.
I don't know.
I think a lot of people,
dear geeks, I think, buy those things.
Okay, I have the...
Okay, the price is $15 if you buy it at a newsstand.
But if you get the year subscription, it's $39.95.
Right.
And there's only four issues a year.
Is that all?
Yeah.
That's why it says it comes with an upgrade disc in that.
I thought if they're bringing it out monthly,
for surely Ubuntu doesn't upgrade it monthly.
Yeah, I'm sure they've got, like,
I'm sure they've got updates,
and then probably whatever extra packages they're talking about,
you know, just the dot-deb files for, you know, whatever software
they happen to review that issue, I would imagine.
Did, um, there used to be the online PDF
Ubuntu magazine.
Yeah.
I can't remember what...
Sorry.
Yeah, full circle.
Is that still about?
No, I'm pretty sure it kind of died.
Oh, you see, that's a pity,
because that was a pretty good magazine,
like that tax magazine.
That was the other one that was available only through PDF, too.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Full circle is around, I think.
Oh, you might be thinking of Tax Magazine then.
They've packed that in, didn't they?
Yeah, yeah.
I think they'd have an easier time if they did it now
instead of when they did,
because I think people would be
okay with buying advertising now,
but back then it was all still very, very new.
Yeah, that's true.
If it looks like a full circle is still around.
Yeah.
The latest one was June 28th, I guess.
Okay.
It was on the Worcester, right?
It must have gone away for a little while.
I could have sworn it was gone for a little while.
Maybe I'm thinking of that other one though.
Yeah, and another magazine, well,
not new, I just found out about it a few weeks ago
with the BSD magazine.
Yeah, BSD magazine.
I picked up the issue this month,
and it's not new to them?
It looks like January 2008.
It's new.
Oh, okay.
It's another one that has four issues a year.
And their pricing is $15 if you buy it at the newsstand,
but it's the same price as $39.95 a year for four issues.
But you can also get the PDF version for 25 a year,
which they had a freebie on there a few days ago,
and I downloaded the latest one for free.
Which one was that?
The one with the...
I have month on this thing.
With free BSD 7.1 in it?
Yeah.
Okay, yeah.
That's the one I got.
And once before that was PCBSD, no?
Yep.
I just looked at that one today at Barnes & Noble.
All right.
Just browse through it.
And I think I'm going to go ahead and try PCBSD.
I'm going to give it a try,
and maybe tell you about it in a couple weeks.
Yeah, I'm probably going to try either PCBSD or free BSD.
I've had some trouble in the past with the BSD
is trying to get them installed onto my Apple hardware.
But I might just try PCBSD on my triple EPC,
just for kicks, see how that runs.
No, and you're Apple hardware.
What type of video chips?
It's just...
It's an Intel 9...
I don't know.
I can tell you exactly,
but you know, it's the Intel one.
It's a geographic Intel thing.
So I'm kind of surprised that it wouldn't be working,
but I've got like...
I've had nothing but X failures on like...
I tried PCBSD actually the one that you're the latest one.
I tried it on a MacBook,
and it kept...
It had trouble booting the install installation disk,
and then I tried to boot it up just after I finally did get it to install,
and there were some weird X issues,
and I can't get it to boot without X.
So I'm going to have to install it on something,
and I have to go in with a live CD,
and get rid of whatever kind of initial,
you know, init script that is causing it to start X
so that I can at least get into a text console,
or I'm just going to try it on my triple EPC,
and see how it works.
That's cool, maybe we can talk about it in a couple of weeks.
Yeah, I'll definitely try it on some computer,
and yeah, we can discuss it.
Yeah, we don't have to make the whole show about it,
yeah.
Yeah, we can just discuss it if anybody else wants to try it out.
So we're talking PC, BST, right?
Not the FreeBSD 7.
Either one's fine.
Okay.
I tried FreeBSD, I don't know, a month or two ago.
Now does that come...
After you install that, does it actually install X?
Or you have to do that separately?
Do you have two X?
But like, that does top environment separately and stuff.
You have to do everything separately.
Okay.
So, okay.
Yeah, just...
Do you have the manual for FreeBSD?
It...
It's also on platypuslinics.org.
It's the complete...
Oh, okay.
Manual.
And it's pretty good.
All right.
All right, anything else before I wrap it up?
Nope.
Nothing?
And I'm not going to ask Peter what he wants me to play for the song.
Ian Madagascar.
Ian Madagascar.
Ian Madagascar.
Ian Madagascar.
Yeah.
Tonight's song is by Alan Mays,
and the title is Night Like This.
All right.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night, everyone.
Good night, everyone.
Good night.
Good night.
Have a good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Thank you.
Can't you, you hold you all night, they blow up on the roof Open up your heart and let walls close down
Tonight is the night for love to exist Everybody needs a little night like this
This night like this for love can't exist Everyone won't smile as only things don't make a love exist
Everybody needs a little night like this Tonight like this for love can't exist Everyone more won't smile as only things don't make a love
It just for you
Thank you for listening to Haftler Public Radio, HPR is sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over
