Episode: 66
Title: HPR0066: April Fools Day Traditions
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0066/hpr0066.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 10:57:21

---

Thanks for watching.
Yeah, you're right on the edge of the ceiling until it's not like that, but it's very
memorable.
Yeah, getting a boy there to overcome a few rules, most of us, because most of us even
don't know what we did there, it's just how many we felt.
Yeah, and that's why I used to say the kids, who, for me, they don't get fuzz, it's how
to be nice and small, but see them side to get messing it out, so I hope you even
know what it was.
Well, he's good, he was high, and in less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less
serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious,
nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer,
he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's
a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little
bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less
serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious,
nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer,
he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he's a little bit less serious, nearer, he
s a little bit less serious, nearer, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot, he's an idiot
But now what you do now, and I send you a message from
but I'll stop asking you all the time.
You'll get on time, bro.
You'll see your progress, but some of the salary,
but I can't see any dealer who's selling it.
So now it's not so obvious.
I mean, it's just not up.
He'll in fact be doing that, you know,
because you're either there is not somebody up here
for us, but you know, it's kind of dirty.
It's not a lot of fun.
It's just like, it's just not,
that all of us are hot at the outside.
So there's come on.
You're not getting it, you're getting it, you're getting it.
Plus hot.
Yeah, it's just never enough.
It's just okay.
It's too much.
Yeah.
For the day, as well.
For the day that she was going to be us.
I know you're from that time.
I better get her first.
Okay.
Let's do it.
It's a little right now.
It's just the end of the day.
But I can't begin to find a little bit.
It looks hard.
Right.
You know, for the email now,
almost you are.
And we're doing it all.
It's almost open.
And she's like, it's very good.
Not great.
You're a little scared.
We'll rest now.
Rest now from the set.
Sooner or two.
In five years,
now it's really still an
ambitious and a map of what ever we have moisture.
And
what will go through it?
Oh, yeah.
I struct,
Yeah.
I make a little
shower here.
Said you know we still went out.
Right here.
You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you
know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know,
Now I'll say that is our next service and to you an url red trophy.
And I am a semi-cam right now.
If you won't come to see us anymore,
there's a nation of war on the ground.
There's half an earth man per verse.
And to you, yeah.
There you, there you, there you go.
And to you, yeah, you bugger.
And all of them sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks.
And the sucks in the blood.
And the sucks me a lot.
And the suck in the blood.
And then.
And the suck in the blood.
And then.
And the suck in the blood.
And stolen from me.
And the suck in the blood.
And stolen from me.
And stolen with me.
And stolen.
And stolen with me.
or understand that they get a, yeah, and then why do you
serve for this?
It's not really a recent question,
and besides, I've been up to, uh,
serve us in this, I got 10, I got to us.
Well, I was at zero, it's a gift.
My, maybe it'll be, oh, I look like I've got
wasn't either a, or a snack, or that gift,
and it'll, say, if, now, real or not,
well, it was an easy game, but still, uh,
first, I mean, it's gonna, uh,
an easy game, Brazil, my,
an easy game, now, so, I'll serve for no one,
well, it was an easy game, or a bunch of them,
an easy game, or希望, and the weeks.
They don't, uh, they, uh, stuff, maybe if,
you look at them, hi, not much.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, it's the whole, n$%
and, syrup, or it has to be a certificate,
no threat, but we, uh, we started
by outside the eye peeled, making the third
old citizen realize howuting,
how devastating, huh?
You'll, you'll see, its, uh,
Smash?
Weird, you'll see, as,
I'm outside a girl.
I mean, truckboat?
So I thought,
her portfolio,yeah, her, yeah.
And this, and there was sort of,
unique border, where we was.
I, written, they, with stretchers.
And they gave pauses.
here or soon that was till all I did, well for better year right now,
unless you have zero yet further enough.
Oh, isn't it?
nightlight,
night?
Good night how are you?
I was going to steal a ride to see if he's a girl.
I guess we were going to take a negative note of,
a girl from Nippon at the end of the world and whatnot.
So yeah, what's near is getting in there.
Girl, what happened?
It is, did a girl for a flight every CV.
But this night, I walked you scantily,
and they'll say the hours, and they'll say to me,
a little bit before I said anything going on.
So yeah, what's the news?
Yeah, I was afraid they'd pray,
and they'd much do hope you survive a little bit.
And that's me, an ill好 I'm so your blood.
And there was me.
And I had a washingole town.
So I guess relatives had no other time.
And I had a washingole town and I just guess her,
if I heard you see all this stuff in the room,
you tell me what's جdriening you in your blood.
And they want to see this sinew.
Now her ability is now high,
everything goes healthy and that thatתل conceived a witch.
That you know what?
It feels impossible to feel the same way.
But, yeah, didn't man want a while?
Was it a beep get dinner?
So yes, and I just got it.
I'm crossing our streets yet so we'll check that out.
So, send it all back.
It's the light.
You just don't tell me.
Oh, you're so good.
I know.
Look at this.
It's not too late.
We're crossing it.
I know, I'm sure.
Well, I don't see your mother.
So, girl, you just can't hear me.
You know, I was kind of close.
We're being locked in.
We're going to be better.
We're going to live now funny.
And that almost has a year.
I said it.
In the past, it's over.
I'm going to stay.
I lost my child by 10 when they left.
And when I found my child.
So my wife got attacked.
They cried, andI fell asleep.
I too was exposed to.
And I had.
And the other mother given permission.
So my mom was arrested that we had.
I can't even say six words and we were now ready to...
We lost her life.
Don't know.
Wake her.
Right.
Oh.
You bet.
What am I?
I don't know.
Would you...
So I'm going to floor with her while I on it to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able
be able to be able to be able
be able to be able to be able
be able to be able
be able to be able to be able to be able to be able
to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be
able to be able to be able
to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able
You
You
You
