Episode: 685
Title: HPR0685: Product Review SunVolt
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0685/hpr0685.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 00:49:15

---

Music
Hello everyone, it's Riddlebox. Sorry it has been such a long time since my last
HPR episode. Today I'm going to do a product review. This product is one that I think
almost everyone will find a good use for. The product is from Scosh and is the solar
powered universal charger, backup battery, or sunbolt. A description of the product from
the manual that comes with it says, the Scosh sunbolt provides a convenient and environmentally
friendly way to charge your USB portable device. The specifications for the product are
output 5 volts 500 milliamps. The battery is a lithium ion. The battery capacity is 1500
milliamps. Solar battery charge is 4 to 5 days and it varies depending on sunlight and
everything. It has two lights, one for charging by the suner from a PC and the other is out
which is lights up when it is charging a device. There's also a small button on which
allows you to see how much battery is left. So obviously there are two ports, two USB
ports. One is to plug a USB cord into it to charge a device and the other is to plug
a cable into it to charge the device from a PC. So you can actually charge the battery
while charging your phone or something else. It also comes with a little clear plastic
case and some suction cups to put on your car window. The initial charge does take like
four hours or so and the manual recommends to charge the device from your PC or laptop
before your first use. After doing the initial charge you can carry the battery with you and
when your Android device or smartphone or any device that charges from USB is running low
you can just plug it into the battery and it starts charging instantly. I've been using
this device for a few months now and it has saved me many times while I was on the phone
with tech support and my cell phone was about to die out. All in all it takes a long time
to charge by solar power but charging it in combination with the laptop and the sun
it is a nice way to have a battery back up for your device. I purchased this from Walmart
for about $30 US and have seen it online for as low as $20 US. I think it is priced very
well and I highly recommend it to anyone that uses any type of smartphone or USB device
a lot during the day and the battery wears down quickly so you can instantly charge the
device back up and get more usage out of whatever device you are using. Well again this
is Riddlebox and I hope you guys find this episode useful and I will see you next time.
Thank you.
