Episode: 586
Title: HPR0586: Miscellaneous Radio Theater 4096- The Internet is For Porn
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0586/hpr0586.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 23:34:02

---

music
You are listening to W-A-R-T. Word Radio, the time is 7 o'clock on a Thursday evening,
which means it's time, once again, for miscellaneous radio theatre of 4,096.
W-A-R-T.
W-A-R-T.
Alright, before I continue, let me play the song for you, and I'll be right back after this.
W-A-R-T.
I'm glad we have this new technology.
Poor porn.
Which gives us untold all 13-E-T.
Poor porn. Oh, sorry.
From your own desktop.
Poor porn.
You can research browse and shop.
Until you've had enough and you're ready to stop.
Poor porn.
The internet is poor porn.
The internet is poor porn.
Shrek.
Hit me up all night, hugging me.
Poor porn.
Poor porn.
That's close.
You're a pervert.
Ah, sticks and stones, Kate Monster.
No, really. You're a pervert.
Normal people don't sit at home and look at porn on the internet.
Oh.
What?
You have no idea.
Ready, normal people?
Ready.
Ready.
Ready.
The internet is poor porn.
Sorry, Kate.
The internet is poor porn.
A masturbate.
All these guys unzip their flies for porn.
Poor porn.
The internet is not for porn.
Poor porn.
Poor porn.
A second.
Wow.
Now I happen to know for a fact that you, Rod, check your portfolio and trade stocks online.
That's correct.
And Brian, you buy things on Amazon.com.
Sure.
And Gary, you keep selling your possessions on eBay.
Yes, I do.
And Princeton, you sent me that sweet online birthday card.
True.
Oh, but Kate, what you think you do after?
Yeah.
Yeah.
The internet is poor porn.
The internet is poor porn.
I hate porn.
Grab your dick and double-click for porn.
Poor porn.
I hate porn.
I hate porn.
I hate the internet.
I hate porn.
The internet is poor.
The internet is poor.
The internet is poor.
The internet is poor porn.
Yeah.
Do you remember now?
Is it coming back to you?
The first time I was shown this song was at a friend's house.
They pulled me over and said, hey, you have to hear this.
And they played it for me.
And the person who played it for me was pretty mused by it quite frankly.
I've turned a little criticism of this song to be honest with you.
Just the opposite of criticism I've heard, I've heard people saying things like this song is awesome.
I love this song. It's hilarious. This is a laugh so hard. It's so true and so forth.
It's kind of a beloved song now as a truism about the internet.
A quick tour of YouTube and Google reveals very, very little arguments against this.
But you should verify that for yourself because I'm not going to spot off statistics and try and prove that point.
That's your responsibility.
But try and find some criticism about it. Seriously, try and find any criticism about this video.
It's not as simple as you would think. It's actually kind of hard.
There are plenty of people praising it though, which is a little weird.
Where do I begin with this song? It's a really, really loaded song and I can't address all of my feelings on this song.
That would take a long time.
I'm just going to address one primary point, one thing that you should take away.
One you think about this song.
The first time I saw it, I didn't really like it to be honest with you.
At the time, I was showing it. It's such a weighted song.
I didn't really know what to say. So I just smiled and said, yeah, that's funny.
But it's not very funny and it definitely deserves some criticism.
There's a trend in geek communities and in the hacker scene, a trend to normalize porn.
At least I'm noticing this trend. I mean, how many times have you heard people make jokes about porn?
Seriously, you hear it a lot. The problem I have with this is that they're never attacking porn itself.
The porn itself is never the focus of controversy in the hacker scene. It's the malware you get from it.
Or something like that. Or in the geek communities, porn itself is rarely, rarely attacked.
Even in this video, if you go and watch it again or listen to it, the woman in this video says,
I quote, that's gross. You're a pervert in criticism to the cookie monster sounding person's argument that the internet is for porn.
This is attacking the consumers of porn. This is attacking that cookie monster person.
And not the porn, which is a little weird. That's the first thing I noticed that was a little off about this video.
Because, well, quite frankly, porn and the creators of porn are kind of one and the same.
And both, I feel, deserve attacking to solely attack the consumers of porn.
And with arguments like, oh, well, that's gross. Your pervert masturbation is bad.
And there should be no such thing as porn, the evil peward, and whatnot.
It does not do with justice at all because quite frankly, sex is fairly a fairly healthy thing.
And masturbation is also a healthy thing. But porn isn't. And it's creators.
And the creator consumer, sort of, the creator consumer of it deserve attacking.
So, this is the point I want to make. The one point I want to make about this video because it can tell everything would take a while.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. And the beholder is the one who has the power.
The privilege of the beholder is that he, and I say he, because it's the case that straight men are in that position at the moment, that he produces the media.
And I mean, okay, so porn is a highly sexualized environment.
But a lot of women feel that their entire lives are in a sexualized environment.
And frankly, it's because of this. A sexualized environment like that of the world of porn is one in where the desires of both parties are non-met.
Yeah, I know sex isn't always between two people, but for argument's sake, I'm just going to stick with both.
Both, or any, it doesn't really matter. I'm going to say both, though, because sexualization happens when there's a desireer and a desireer, where the desireers' needs are met.
But the desireees' needs are ignored. This is the case with porn, where the desireer is consumers and the creators in the desireee, quite frankly, is women's bodies.
Go watch porn. I mean, actually watch it. The situations are firstly kind of ridiculous and usually always incredibly sexist.
But watch the women and think about how they act and think about if they're enjoying themselves, like actually enjoying themselves.
I'm not saying that all porn is bad. I mean, anyone can make porn, but porn that is highly produced and porn that is largely the only porn that is consumed is pretty bad.
It's basically for men. Having someone come on your face is hard to argue as a desire that, well, I'm not going to get into that.
Okay, so it's basically for men pretty much 100%. Women's actual desires aren't vocalized at all in this, nor the women's desires vocalized in a larger context generally is what I'm trying to say.
This is what it means to be sexualized or objectified, and the acceptance of porn maintains sexualized environment for women.
Sex itself is in bad, neither is masturbation. Porn in its current form is the results of male privilege, and we need not support that.
Think about the women in porn and turn yourself off to it.
A lot, and I mean a lot of women, do have a history and quite frankly a future of sexual assault and a lot, lot, lot more have a history and a future of sexual harassment, because of the environment that's around them and how cultural, how culture views their bodies and their worth.
Think about that when you watch porn, and seriously find other ways to get yourself off, and maybe even have sex if you seriously take your partner or your potential partners desires into account.
You might find that you aren't actually a little bit more attractive, just saying this all.
The primary criticism, I have for this video, the internet is for porn, is that it maintains a sexualized environment, displaying women through talking about porn as a normal thing to be consumed.
Displaying women as objects to be consumed really, really, really doesn't help women come into your community.
The hacker scene is relatively new, and if we can get a strong feminist foothold in it, we can build a space where women are welcome to contribute, and that's important because women are more than half the planet.
So, thanks for listening, and I will see you next week. Good night everyone.
.
.
