Episode: 483
Title: HPR0483: TiT Radio - Filthy Grunt and Bloopers
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0483/hpr0483.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 21:32:29

---

Tip Radio episode 13 starts now.
Tip Radio episode 13 starts now.
Hello and welcome to Hacker Public Radio. I'm Mr. B.
And joining me at the round today with tonight is Peter 64.
Hi.
Jayman.
Hello.
Asmeth.
Good evening.
Peg Wall.
Hey, I'm glad you didn't call me Peggy this time.
And Art V61.
Hello, hello everybody.
I didn't get any feedback to anybody else.
No.
Nothing?
All right.
But I do have an update from...
I think we talked about this on episode 11.
The world of goo.
Do you remember that?
Pea, what you want birthday sound that they had?
Yeah.
And then it was extended, wasn't it?
Yeah, it was.
I don't know the way it goes, sir.
They extended it for seven more days.
I guess like a total of 13 days.
And they sold over 83,000 copies.
No.
And now we're looking at the stats.
One night, weren't we?
And there was a lot of purchase for just one cent.
Yeah, like something like 16, 17,000 copies.
Yeah.
Now I actually get a little bit of research on that.
And you know what a lot of that was?
It was people who had already bought a copy of it for one platform.
But they wanted to buy a copy for another platform.
So I was told.
So there isn't any cheap fastest out there.
But just that first weekend, or actually the first six days, they made $100,000.
So that's pretty darn good.
What I'm here to do is drum up.
How long has it been released for 12 months now, hasn't it?
Yeah.
So all of a sudden it just sprung up a whole lot more publicity.
Where it was sort of waned over 12 months, probably no one heard of it.
So yeah, it was a really good idea.
They should have set the minimum for like a dollar though.
Yeah, I honestly, I'm like, if I move it right now, it's that type of idea.
That's a bit piece of it.
I want it for one cent.
Because I think they're going to pay even for a dollar.
They don't make a whole lot of money, do they?
Because PayPal takes the percentage or something.
Oh yeah, that's right.
I think it's a dollar 30.
Yeah, there's a minimum or something.
So even the dollar PayPal, or PayPal obviously did all right out of it.
But no, I think, you know, at first I thought, yeah, it was this week that people were only paying a cent and even the dollar.
But then when someone explained, or I don't remember where I found that, I read it somewhere.
That people already had it.
And they just wanted to get the other one for the other platform.
I thought, well, that's pretty fair.
It's never already forwarded for what was the original purchase price.
It was more than 20 bucks, wasn't it?
I think it was $20.
Yeah, so you can't begrudge people for buying it for a cent.
And if they already paid 20 bucks for it, I mean, for a game that's what 12 months old.
Did they do any updates to it in the 12 months or no?
I have no idea.
Well, has anybody been playing it?
I played the demo when it first came out.
And my little girl enjoyed it, too.
But how many more would you buy?
Yeah, I bought it, but never played it yet.
Well, you had said you were going to buy it just to donate to them, right?
I mean, that was zero.
Yeah, but I bought it for my daughter.
I figured she would play it, but I never got around to putting it on her laptop yet.
Nice dad.
Bad daddy.
Well, she's busy with that robot baby that she has now.
Oh, no.
She's got like a baby she had to bring home from school.
Yeah.
She's got to take care of it all weekend.
But anyways, you know, while she's asleep, if you go in there and shake it,
and then what, there'll just be some messed up readings when that thing gets returned.
You know, you keep that in the freezer.
You can't hear it cry.
Let's move on to the topics.
What do you got for a speeder, 64?
Not much this week.
The only thing I did have a look at, what this is.
I don't even know if it's a synth gun.
It's S-I-N-T-H-G-N-C.
Okay, now we're sitting there anyway.
Just for the start, obviously.
And one of these is just front-end FFMP.
Just for converting movies from one fault map to the other.
Now, fairly, anyone who says Linux is hard has a new Linux in the last 12 months,
because I used to take quite a lot of pleasure at actually doing a command on converting videos on the command line
when it actually works.
And this does it automatically.
It's got more than a hundred pre-configured conversion settings in it.
And the other thing about it too, which I was happy to read,
is that anyone who's ever compiled FFMP to do a specific task like,
I don't know, maybe if you want 3GP support for mobile phones,
you know, a lot of mobile phones use 3GP,
or you compile it with non-free codecs.
When you actually run configure, you've got a path of what options
to make it sort of specific to what you want to, you know, tailor it to your own needs.
With this synth gun, it actually automatically detects how you compile it
and therefore a takeable only gives you those options when you get a convert.
It won't show your options that it can't convert, if you know what I mean.
Now, when you do convert, what is it going to give you?
Like I said, future pre-sets, you can get a typically avi.
Everyone knows what that is. You can convert movies to Blackberry, for a Blackberry, for creative zen.
It's got the microphone, soft, bloody formats there for the zoom
and the Windows Media video and LG Chocolate, just hundreds of really.
So, anyone who wants to convert movies doesn't want to learn how to do it on a command line.
Well, you could do a lot worse in this little program.
It's written in Python, it's licensed under the GPL version 3, and it's a complete paper source.
So, you can't do better than that. You can also convert movies to Android compatible videos.
So, that's going to make a lot of people really happy.
Yeah, like we work our Android.
Yeah, he might like you for bringing this up to Peter.
No comments.
Yeah, I think Zeus has got packages for it.
Yeah, I think all the Fedora, I think I saw the packages for Fedora Zeus.
I've got it there. Yeah, you are. Repays for Arch.
But I compiled it on the laptop from Source, but it is very easy.
Like I said, it's based on Python, and it just installed really simple.
Nice, they show here on the screen shots where they're pulling a YouTube video of it, or, yeah.
They're downloading a YouTube video. Pretty neat.
Yeah, it is. It really is a handy little thing.
Honestly, I don't know that all go visit the command line quite as often as I do now with this thing.
It's just made it too easy.
Is it actually showing in the video?
Yeah, it's true. I think it just gave a screen shot before I recollect correctly.
You get a screen shot of what's happening.
I can't remember if I showed it. The actual video is converting it.
I don't think it did.
Well, it doesn't necessarily convert it real time.
That's right.
You wouldn't want to watch it anyway.
Yeah. I think it just shows you a screen shot.
That's quite nice.
I can't see how many times people have come into Lynch Cranks, and just ask how they can convert, yeah, movies from one format to the other.
And I typically have, I've mentioned this before, I sort of have a basic recipe of commands that I have to go and just change a little bit
to get what they want.
But now I'll be pointing them to this program and say, just have a look to see if this can do what you want.
If not come back, then we'll have to play with it.
That's the commands in your J-man file, right?
Well, actually, these ones aren't, but it's very similar.
This is one that I've had quite a while.
Yeah. You sort of, you get your little commands that you like to keep.
I sure don't like the name.
No, I tried to find out where she's come from.
It seems rude.
Yeah, it does.
Yeah, sounds perverted.
And actually, I might even email these people, just to ask them, because they try to find out where they can come from, but I couldn't say.
I mean, they sort of need it like filthy grunt.
And it's got two printing horses like the Ferrari symbol.
I don't know what that's got to do with it, but it did a good program.
I think it's part of that Google summary, too.
The website is k.google.com, 4-slash-p, 4-slash-sit-gun.
I'll just put that in there.
I think we want to go and grab it.
There's some kind of German mythology, that name.
Some about, I don't know, it's got to be big words for me.
Yeah, I just think it's big.
And then I thought, I wonder if that's got something to do with the name.
Well, that was just a coincidence out of time.
But very nice find, Peter.
Well, thank you.
They must be considering you found it weeks ago.
Jeez.
You can cut that.
I'll leave it to you.
No, say it.
Okay, hold on.
Well, very nice find, Peter.
Well, thanks.
You know what, these bloopers are going to be longer than the show.
Oh, man.
Let's move on to J-Man.
What was that?
Archimating Hall.
Yeah, I just wanted to go programming language.
This recently became open source.
It's been in the works since, sometime in 2007.
And the designers are, among other people, very famous hackers.
Rob Pike and Ken Thompson.
This is an object-oriented language.
It's garbage collected, which means you don't have to worry about memory management.
They try to keep everything safe, type safe.
So you can't screw things up too badly.
They have pointers, but there's no pointer arithmetic and all that good stuff.
But you can read about the specifications and stuff.
They have tutorials on golang.org.
And this is distributed under the BFD license.
Now, what's your opinion on why they're doing this?
Well, the whole point is that there haven't been any modern system languages developed.
We have all these multi-core things.
And there aren't any languages that really take advantage of it.
You know, the best thing about this J-Man?
That's a run on Windows.
It looks like they're not going to port it over quite some time if they do.
It looks very similar to Python.
Yeah, it's more like C.
They wanted to make it the syntax very specific.
It's not dynamically typed.
And one of the main objectives is fast compile time.
They have all the stuff to build the language.
It's like 120,000 lines of code.
And it builds in something like eight seconds on a single core processor.
When did you say they started this a year ago?
The design was done back in 2007.
And it's been closed up until now.
And they really saw the code to it.
I don't know these guys.
You know, they point out, you know, it's all about the fun.
If you can develop fast and compile fast, you know, you're having fun developing again.
You don't have to worry about the memory and all that.
You mentioned prior about the garbage collection or whatever.
What exactly does that mean?
In languages that don't have garbage collection, you have to worry about,
are these variables that I was once using?
They're still in memory, which means they're still taking up the user for sources.
The garbage collection will actually take things out of memory that aren't needed anymore.
Without the program or having to worry about it.
Yeah, they were talking about using this on older, older equipment too, right?
Wasn't that one of the ideas of this too?
Yeah, apparently it doesn't matter how fast your system is.
This can pretty much compile the same.
They're looking for compile times like you hit enter and it's actually done.
Okay, if you create a program with this and you email it to me, what would I need to run it?
Well, I need any special libraries.
Yeah.
Limited does, isn't it? Very limited.
Yeah, you're not going to need everything.
It's like, it's a compile language, so you don't need the interpreter at all.
If you had the libraries, the executable calls, then you're okay.
There's a lot of guys talking about this and each one has a different take on it.
I guess, you know, like you said, it's something new, something different.
Yeah, it'll be interesting to see where it goes.
Python took off pretty well.
Yeah, and this can be used on everything, right?
Isn't that the thing with this?
Yeah, and they've got pretty much everything that you need for system language in there now.
But like they say, they're going to continue working on it and making it a lot better.
You think part of this is for like phones and or processors, you know, compact processors.
You think that's what they're leaning towards with this?
Yeah, it certainly could be.
There's some speculation that they may have used this quite a bit in the Chrome OS.
So this sort of thing scales, JLindy, from little stuff up to big, super-computers you can use this sort of language on.
Yeah, it definitely should.
Yeah, if they've tailored this for like optimizing for new assistants with dual-core and all that sort of stuff,
and you mentioned that there has been more than 10 years since our language has really emerged,
then it's got to be fast, doesn't it?
It's got to be faster than anything, career.
Yeah, that's their plan.
That's the hope that they have, that it beats everything out there.
So when would you think you would see something like this in the mainstream?
When would we start running programs as written in this language still a long way off?
Well, yeah, it just depends on how well people like this thing.
I mean Python took off pretty fast and being open-source in general just it draws hacker types to it
and they start figuring things out and start contributing to the language itself.
Yeah, and each person is going to implement it to a different piece of hardware, probably,
and they'll add bits here and there and...
So where have you heard about it at school?
No, I've a couple of the other podcasts that listen to...
No, they don't talk about anything smart like this at school, come on.
If it's ain't in the book and on the curriculum, you don't hear about this kind of stuff.
And in terms of actually programming, don't you?
I don't know if you mentioned this.
How is it...
A Python took off, I'd take it because there was an easy language to learn, is that correct?
Or is one of the easier languages?
So I don't understand much about this.
Okay, so how does this compare learning-wise to Python for you to pick this up?
If you had, you didn't have any experience in programming, would this be easy to pick up or not?
Well, yeah, it depends on how well you do pick things up, obviously.
But it's not going to be as easy as a burl or something like that, right?
I mean, this is more like C, you said, right?
Yeah, it's definitely like C.
There's some syntax differences.
It's not really going to be for the beginner, I would think.
Yeah, it's not like human readable text.
So that could hinder if it's not development.
It's up to take a little bit, if it's not for every sort of everybody to start using, start trying to write stuff in it.
Well, you have been a lot of the older guys that did see and stuff like that would probably pick this up easy, I would think.
Yeah, it looks good.
I just wish I understood a lot more about it, but I just have no use for it.
Well, some of you rewrote filthy grunt.
That's the spirit.
I don't know, I think it's going to be good.
Dayman, I think that it definitely should make a difference, especially since it's open source.
All right, thank you, J.M.
Let's move on to Asmeth.
Oh.
I don't know, I'm still smart and from sucking on a high-tech video and Linux.
And it's easy to go back and blame the people making the cards for not putting out the drivers issue, but they're dropping drivers that actually work and it's not getting put into a new X org.
And, you know, dropping off the legacy cards.
Actually, really decent ATI and Nvidia cards out there that the hardware actually is quite good and it's all moved away from it.
Okay, let's get to the base of this.
What happened to you?
Which time?
All right.
Well, we mentioned this a little bit on Prince last week that we often say that Linux runs well on older hardware.
And it does, but what's the point of it running good if you can't take advantage of, like you said, the older hardware that's still good?
No, it's not a very good argument with Linux anymore, isn't it?
Yeah, sure.
It's going on this box.
It'll run nice, but don't worry.
You can't use your 3D accelerator graphics card that you've probably paid about 700 dollars for three years because that is no longer supported.
And that's a little bit sad, isn't it?
Yeah, but are they doing it to the new hardware or the old hardware?
You know, I mean, my point is if I go to, let's say I go online to eBay or something and I find that older hardware card that's, you know, was a good card then that I can get for 20 bucks.
And I buy it and then it don't work.
Is that the point of this?
Yeah, but, well, yeah, two degrees.
I've got a deradiant, I've mentioned this in practice, 9800 pro, or ultimate, or whatever it was, that, you know, I think I paid around 700 dollars for, I don't know how many years ago, three or four years ago,
made it longer to have whenever it come out.
And that still today is, you know, it's not a bad card, but it's sitting in the box now because I can't use it on it.
It's not worth the trouble of trying to get it to work.
Yeah, the hardware capabilities are still there.
It's just that I'm not talking to it anymore.
Yeah, I ran that number with it and it ran really good.
But to get it to run, I had to go and reinstall Zusa 10.3 because I could then go and get the drivers from ATI that I needed.
That would work with whatever version of XOR that Zusa 10.3 was using at the time.
And yeah, but I couldn't get it to work with 11.1.
And who is going to go to all that sort of trouble?
Well, I'll tell you now, I'm not, because I couldn't be bothered anymore.
So I'll just pull the card out and try to run, I'll buy another one.
Well, that money's a burn.
Well, that's the thing.
That's the hardware renders plan, so you discontinue using the card and replace it.
Yeah, but the trouble is, I suppose.
I can go and get Windows 7.
Put it on that machine and I'll pitch it.
I can go and get the ATI drivers and get that card run as good as the day I bought it.
And that's the sad thing, isn't it?
What does it say for argument that Linux runs on this older hardware?
And Jaylen, I know you mentioned that where Linux has moving gold parts all the time,
where Windows didn't have to worry about that, because, you know, XP's running around for don't these years.
And it is just a bit sad.
It has a lot of feel for you, because I understand.
Yeah, we always go back to that old argument, you know,
when cards get so old that they should just release the stuff to us and let us do it.
Well, that would save all of our headaches, wouldn't it?
If they did that, but as we know, there's probably a lot of counting there that I want people to see,
because they probably borrowed it from somewhere that they shouldn't have,
or there's optimization in the code that they don't want out of companies to see,
because then all of a sudden, you know, they might produce a bit of a card.
So, I mean, yeah, that's understandable to a degree.
What do you do?
Well, I don't know if that's, I don't know if that's true either,
because I was listening to an interview with the guy who is doing the ganache project
and, you know, that flash, the, you know, the gnome flash thing,
and he said that they were backwards engineering it,
and when he did finally get, when they did finally let the code out, that he could see it,
he said, you know, half the stuff they wrote was better than what flash you did.
You know, it was just like, it was stupid.
Well, there is some advantage to writing it from scratch,
and, you know, black box in it, where you know what you got to have out,
and you know what's going in, you can clean it up a whole lot more than what they did
as they kept adding on us as things progressed.
Yeah, that's what he said, too.
He said they guessed it some things, but, you know, it was trial and error on some things,
and some things were just cut and dry.
They can't do that with the cards.
I mean, is it that much harder?
I don't know how much harder it is to rate the drivers for them.
Well, there is one bright spot.
The MVIDIA has released, took the driver update.
The X-server 1.7.
So, you know, everybody's kind of working at it,
but the developers, you know, they're always,
well, the only reason we have things to work in Linux is all because they scratch their own itch.
And if they don't happen to itch in the same place as we are, it never gets scratched.
Yeah, which I couldn't understand, because like that card peter was talking about.
Now, that's probably still a relatively good selling card,
and you would think that they would want to sell it.
I mean, you know, if they let it out, people, more people will buy it.
Well, I think about the only card in that series that they have now,
is $95.50 in the radion.
Apparently, it's well supported in Windows, but X-org has dropped it.
I don't get it.
See, and that's the thing, you know, with the, they're, you know,
touting games on Linux and stuff like that.
Well, if they want to get these people, then they can go twist it a few arms, I guess,
and, you know, try to get some more people interested in doing something about it.
Well, I don't know.
Just too bad we aren't all rich and can't just replace the hardware,
to stay up with what they're hoping for.
Well, if one of these card manufacturers just would release an open card
with some generic drivers that are open, I mean, I think every Linux user,
every Linux user likes to build systems would probably buy one.
You know, where, you know, anybody can make drivers for it.
Yeah, and they tell their friends too, and that would be, you know,
that's what I don't understand why they don't do that.
I think they would sell a heck of a lot more equipment that way.
With the 9,800 pro, we came out in about 2003,
like I said, customer, and $800.
Now, would you say six years is old in computer years?
I suppose it is.
Yeah.
You know, the thing works.
I want to keep using it.
Absolutely, why would you?
You know, without that money, I wanted it to do.
Well, why would you throw it away to come replace it?
Just, well, I suppose you have to.
You don't have a choice.
Charlie, you said that the legacy drivers have been updated
for the older cars we were talking about last week.
Yeah.
I pulled those down today, and updated XORG and everything's working now.
Well, it says, sort of, that gives a bit of a very proved to some people.
There's always the uncertainty factor that one day, you know,
they'll stop updating them.
Yeah, all they were slow getting the updates out this time, you know.
And the next time they outrun it, it's going to be even slower.
Yeah, and it's understandable from a business point of view.
You know, you got people that just bought brand new cards,
and they need their drivers first.
Well, let's face it, they already have their old card sold.
It's a new card that keeps them in business.
But we've been saying this for a long time.
You know, Intel is almost perfect with their drivers.
Like, if Intel brought out a performance card, I would buy it, and I'd be happy.
They can't compete in the performance area.
Now, Intel's talking about doing a whole thing on their own, ain't they?
Aren't they talking about doing a whole computer line?
Yeah, I don't know, but...
Can't you still get...
I know you're saying that they've sold those cards.
They're not interested in writing the drivers on that board.
Can't you still get drivers for all these cards for Windows?
I don't think Windows is advanced enough in that area
that they've actually outrun the cards.
Yeah, and I'd be interested to know,
I'm sure I could go and get drivers for all the old 9,200 nor that sort of card.
I could probably get drivers for the G-Force.
What was it?
Four or something?
Yeah, that's what we were talking about on Cranes.
You know, you can still go get that executable and install it,
and those travels are worth, you know, as long as you didn't switch between 64 bits.
That might have a little problem.
Yeah, so it doesn't buy well for the argument that,
nah, they've already sold you the hardware,
so they're not going to write the drivers,
because they're doing it for Windows,
which is where most of the hardware is.
So why don't you come back to Linux being the...
Yeah, Linux is not a priority in general,
and then when you have old cards,
it's even less of a priority.
Well, but, you know, if you've got an eight-year-old Windows operating system,
it's going to encompass a whole lot of legacy equipment,
where the Linux versions that we're using nowadays are...
Well, it's a whole bunch newer than that.
Yeah, and it's that change that we have that's causing the problem,
because the Windows binary is always going to work for the most part,
because you still have the same system all the time.
Yeah, it's sad, but unfortunately,
the answer is for them to release it all
and let the developers get the aims under it,
and that's not going to happen, is it?
I mean, I hear a release documentation, didn't I?
Probably 12 months ago, a little bit more?
What's become of that?
Is anything coming out of that?
Nothing.
Yeah, yeah, that has.
They're the UVDA based on what is the XVBA.
They finally got some FFM-pig stuff working on it,
where it'll use a hardware acceleration, you know,
it's similar to what Nvidia is doing with...
Yeah, but they don't quite have the AMD up to Snuff on it.
They're kind of playing catch up there,
but it is moving,
but they're putting all their resources
and getting the newer stuff going,
and they're still leaving my old crap behind.
Well, I guess we're just going to have to pick our hardware
that we know that works with Linux.
You know, like anything in Nvidia, I trust, Intel.
I mean, ATI, I would just stay away from them.
I've always liked ATI's problem.
I have to.
I used to run ATI in my Mythbox for quite some time,
and I always thought the pitch quality on it was better than Nvidia.
Well, I went to Nvidia probably about 80 months ago,
but maybe when they all go back and just have a look at the C.
Well, that was a very nice rant, Asmuth.
Let's move on to Pigwall.
Alrighty.
On the note of hardware and everything,
San Francisco's from Reuters,
Intel court will pay rival chipmaker advanced micro devices
incorporated 1.25 billion to settle all outstanding legal disputes,
and I move that can hasten the resolution
of Intel's antitrust troubles.
AMD, who shares jump 22%, agreed to withdraw essentially
all its regulatory complaints and litigation against Intel,
ending a global campaign that has waged
on the world's largest chipmaker for 12 years.
Intel has said the deal takes the steam out of a pending
U.S. Federal Trade Commission investigation
into Intel's business practices,
but other said Intel has critics beyond AMD
and its regulatory troubles are far from over.
Among Intel's adversaries are graphics chipmaker and video court,
and New York attorney general Andrew Cuomo,
I'm assuming that's how you pronounce his name.
Intel chief executive Paul Oedolini designed any wrongdoing
by the company, but it decided to settle the dispute
with AMD to avoid the risk of a triple damages
finding by a jury.
Intel got the factor that it was a huge risk of a huge,
it was a major risk of a huge settlement in front of a jury,
said Broadpoint Amtec analyst Doug Friedman.
If it moves the coin flip of a jury trial,
AMD has argued that Intel used illegal means to preserve
its 80% share of the global market for central processing unit,
which are the brains of personal computers.
Regulators in Asia and Europe have agreed,
imposing fines and other remedies on Intel.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is close to filing
its own complaint sources have said.
FTC chairman John Lieberwitz said the agency will review
the settlement and could not commit, I can't read today.
Comment further because of its ongoing investigation.
Oedolini said Intel will meet with the FTC to explain the settlement.
Experts have said it is in Intel's interest
to resolve its antitrust troubles as quickly as possible,
so it does not wind up like Microsoft Corporation,
which has spent a decade fighting competition agencies
around the world.
You're going to link Paywell?
So we can do what you're talking about?
First you put that in first, huh?
Oh, it doesn't.
Yeah, let me tiny URL that.
That's too late.
It's fawn.
This is a monster of a link.
But I think it's kind of amazing, really,
that it's going on for 12 years,
and they're just now going,
no, we should pay.
I'd say what I wish I'd have bought shares
and I am there just before that announced it.
Yeah.
22% should.
It still amazes me that companies can just go,
oh, here's one and a quarter billion dollars.
Let's just settle.
Intel should have just bought AMD 12 years ago.
It would have been cheaper.
Yeah, I mean.
Yeah, but I think the competition between them
has probably made 12 brands better.
I definitely had.
Yeah, 12 years ago AMD wasn't that great.
No.
It was a really low-powered low-cost chip.
I mean, the K5 series.
I remember the Syrix.
The Syrix?
What happened to them?
Yeah, I had one of those.
Those were dog slow.
Yeah.
I remember I bought Pentium.
I think the Pentium 75 came out,
and I bought Syrix 586 something or other.
P75.
It was supposed to be a Pentium 75 equivalent,
but I don't think it was.
But then I thought the AMD 400.
AMD 400.
With 3D now,
I think it was the first AMD I bought.
I thought that was pretty impressive then.
I still actually have the first AMD processor I bought.
Well, you haven't had a box on a shelf.
No, I actually have it in my desktop.
The processor in the desktop that I got off a friend,
apparently it was fried.
So I slapped a new one in it.
The one I had, which is the AMD Semperon 3100 Plus.
Where is just fine?
It's not a bad processor.
No.
That was your first one?
Yeah.
It's only like what?
Three years old.
Yeah, you got to remember he's a baby.
He hadn't been around this very long.
That's right.
Are you 21 yet?
I'm 22.
You remember with the AMD?
What is the K6 that had the 3D now?
In the history of the game?
I think it was.
If you read it yourself.
What's it do?
Or quake?
It was one of those games.
And if you had had to patch and it used 3D now,
the 3D now instruction set that was built into this chip.
What I remember is your frames per second went from about 32,
about 90 frames per second.
And it was just like magic.
Do you remember that?
Yeah, I do.
There was.
Yeah, I needed it.
You needed a K6 2 to get 3D now.
Yeah.
And that was about the 400.
But the 3D now was only about really good on a couple of things
that they had to usually patch.
Oh, was.
There wasn't a hell of a lot written for it.
Not like the...
What was the Intel one at the time?
Not SSD.
It was before that, wasn't it?
MMX.
MMX.
That's right.
Multimedia.
Extra.
Yeah.
A lot of applications supported that,
but the 3D now wasn't as well supported.
I always thought AMD was a good chip.
Maybe it's just the underdog thing.
We're a lot cheaper.
Well, they started out that way.
But you get a lot more for your money with AMD.
Yeah, bang for buck.
Yeah, for sure.
I always thought they were a better desktop,
but not so much laptop.
Because I used to generate more heat in the Intel variants, didn't I?
The laptop I had that recently died.
They had named the chip and it worked really nice, actually.
Do you let the mouse piss on it?
No mouse pissed on it.
I remember I was cellar on.
I think there was a K6 2, but then...
Was it the cellar on 300?
I either came out not long after that you could overclock to 466 or something.
Yeah, I remember that.
That guy...
Shit, how?
When did this...
I kind of think that it would be going back to...
mid-90s?
One of the oldest in the 70s?
Yeah, good.
Yeah, it was in the mid-90s, because I had a...
No.
I think it was a K6 2 450.
They overclocked to like almost 600 megahertz.
And that lasted for about a month.
I was gonna say that.
Till it's self-destructed.
It ran really nice.
It smelled down.
I remember...
I don't know if they do it anymore, but they used to...
They'd call them down.
They used to...
What's that bloody shit that's freezing cold?
I can't think.
Crocodile.
Crocodile.
Yeah, that's it.
People on the internet used to build all this stuff and fall down in it
overclock them for almost one year.
Oh Peter, you should see that the one rigged it got down to this place called
Microsenter that I go to.
It looks like a plum and factory.
They got pumps on the back of this thing.
Holy shit.
I mean, they got like three-quarter inch tube running through this computer.
Unbelievable.
Unbelievable, this thing is.
It wouldn't bother I have a fucking CPU anymore, would you?
They're still doing it.
Do they still do it?
Till, yeah.
It's always good to see people doing that.
Yeah, just for fun.
Like, it's back in the old days, she used to have to do it
to try yet 30 frames per second out of the model.
Yeah.
People do crazy things like submerge the whole computer and oil and stuff.
Yeah.
I like the art turned kind of red neck on that one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, we'll watch more common analysis.
They'll scale the darn processor and they're running most of them at half clock speed.
You know, unless they actually need it.
Yeah, that's what I was going to say.
Yeah, most of them are running.
You know, you're trying to run them at a thousand megahertz instead of 2.6 or whatever,
just so they're running cool and quiet.
Yeah, slow.
You can get them to run these days is more important, at least to me.
Well, they're going to last longer, too.
Yeah, and the slower you run them, the less your power supply works.
And, you know, you're less electric you use in and call it quieter.
It's more just noise factor.
How much prefer it?
What do you say these days in a super fast one?
Because most of all of these days are faster.
Most of the time that I have a date.
Yeah, no matter how much you overclock it, you can never get a 10 second boot, like my triple E.
That would you get an out of it now? 10 seconds?
10 seconds.
Yeah.
When are you running on that monster boot?
Well, right now it's got the Ubuntu Remix notebook.
How do you like that?
How do you like that?
I put that online, too.
I like it.
I think it's pretty neat.
It's easy to eat around it, which is nice.
And I just took things that I use a lot.
And I just put them in my favorites.
You know, so when a thing starts up, your favorites is right there.
And you just click and go.
Well, before that, why I'm still running Debbie and Lenny on it.
I'm due voting between the two with the Ubuntu Remix.
But I did install Moblin.
I ran that for just a couple days.
I really liked the interface.
I don't know if you tried it or not.
No, I couldn't get it to go online.
I don't think I had a bad image.
I really liked the interface, but my Wi-Fi just kept dropping out.
And I could not figure out a way to change it.
Oh, you mean when every time you fired it up or just as you were using it?
When I did get connected, it would always drop on me.
Like every two minutes, it would drop and try to reconnect.
Well, in the second day, I used it.
I couldn't even connect.
So I'm like, what the heck?
So I rebooted it into Debbie and Lenny on the same trip we
and it connected right away.
You have the 1000, right?
Yeah.
That's the one with the regular hard drive in it.
No, it's got a solid state drive.
It's got two solid state drives.
It's got an A gig and a 32 gig.
Oh, okay.
Mr. Bayer, you and Clifett were having a chat in the RC
at my blend and you guys couldn't find a shut down button or something.
Yeah.
There's no like shut down or log out button.
But I figured it out.
You just hit the power button.
The actual power button on your triple E.
Triple E.
Yeah.
And it fires up a little menu that you can shut it down.
Reboot or shut down.
It actually does it on all of them.
I never noticed that before until.
Yeah, yeah.
That goes right on back to the original Landros thing.
Yeah.
I think it's just the layout of the triple E.
I really do.
Because I've tried it on everything I've ran on it and it all does it.
But back to that 10 second boot.
Well, what does it?
It's called boot booster.
It's a BIOS option.
You can reboot your triple E and hit F2 and go into your BIOS.
And you can check underneath the boot tab if you have this option.
And what it does, it caches your BIOS information into a partition.
On your boot drive.
And it skips a bunch of extra steps.
So what it actually does when you power it on,
it actually skips all your BIOS boot up and goes right to grab.
So as soon as you hit the power button, you see grab.
Well, that's me.
Yeah.
Because I don't have...
I don't...
Mine's not dual booting right now.
I just have the netbook remix on it.
And mine takes like, I think, 23...
24 seconds to start up from powered on to...
You know, usable.
Yeah, and all you do is you...
Like I said, you know, just go in there and check and make sure you have this boot booster.
Turn it off.
And then what you want to do is create a partition.
You see, you need to create an EFI partition at the beginning or the end of a boot drive.
It needs to be like eight to 16 megabytes in size.
And the file system type has to be EF, which is a fat partition.
You know, if this is not like a fresh install, because I did a fresh install,
so this was easy to create another partition.
But if you already have something installed, like you already have something installed,
you can, you know, use something like G-Parted or another live distro.
And then go in there and resize your main root partition and then create that small 8 to 16 megabyte partition.
I think I left that on there.
I think I have that on there from the Zanderos, I think.
I think they had that on the bigger solid state drive.
And when I went in and changed my stuff around, I left a small partition on there
that is somewhere around that size, I believe, that I can probably just use that.
And you only have one drive in your triply?
No, no, I have the four and the 16.
Okay, because it has to be on the same drive that you're using.
For the root partition, right?
Yeah, like you're using the 16 gig right now?
No, I'm using, I have my root partition on the four gig and my home is on the 16.
Okay. And then that little partition, the EFI partition is on the four gig.
I think there is a little 8 or 7 meg partition I left there.
Okay, the only thing you would have to do is just go into your BIOS and then turn this on,
turn on Boot Booster, enable it, and then save and then reboot and it should work on your next startup.
Reboot? Yeah, all right, I have to go ahead and make sure I have that on there.
If not, then I'll just, I'll run something off a USB stick and like you said,
I'll just use Departed or something and make it.
Now, when you power yours on right now, you see like the ASUS splash screen?
Yeah.
Okay, yeah, it's not working right now because you won't even see that.
Yeah, I see the ASUS splash screen and I see like a few lines of text come up and then it's gone
and then it goes to the Ubuntu screen.
Then you get the revolving, you know, Star Trek looking in there.
Yes, once you do that and enable it, then really the only thing you have to do is tweak your OS a little bit.
Like in Ubuntu, turn off, you know, a bunch of services you don't need.
And you probably already have an auto log in.
Yeah, I have an auto log in, yeah.
Yeah, you probably just need to turn off because out of the box Ubuntu has like so many services running you don't need.
You could probably go in there and turn off five, six different things and shave off.
You know, eat to 10 seconds.
So they were time.
Yeah, yeah.
I'll have to try that.
I'm lucky around with it and see.
If you ever have a problem, you know, where you computer on boot, you know, say it skips the BIOS and goes right to Ubuntu
and then crafts out on you, just reboot it and hold down the F2 and go back into the BIOS and shut it off.
And then do it again.
It should override, you know, the cache.
Right.
You know, that gets corrupted.
Right, right.
Yeah.
I'll tell you what.
I mean, the one I got is I have the 900, which is the, you know, the 900 megahertz processor.
And I put it to two, I put two gigs in it of RAM.
And I'm, I'd like to get bigger battery for it, but I'm really, really surprised with the way it tells up.
I mean, I used the thing constantly.
I mean, I have it sit down by the table.
When I get up and have coffee in the morning and sit there and I'll just flip the lid open and hit the key.
And I mean, I leave it in suspend.
And, you know, I mean, of course, it pops right up.
And then when I, like, if I go off the classes, I have class, like, let's say I have class in the morning.
I'll just, I'll just, I have it set for when I unplug it, it goes into suspend on battery power.
And I'll just take it in with me to school.
And when I get to school, I usually get there early.
I just flip the thing open, tap the space bar, and it pops right up.
And I use it for half an hour before school.
Then I'll close the lid, still in suspend.
I mean, I go through all that, take class.
Sometimes I use it in dorm class.
And from home, and it still, I still have 70% battery.
I mean, it's really pretty surprising the little thing.
I'd like to get another one, really.
Yeah, I had to, well, I didn't have to.
I flashed the BIOS a couple days ago.
It was in 1,000.
Yeah, it was so simple.
I mean, all you do is, well, you download the, you know, you go to the Acer site.
I mean, Acer site.
I don't have the link handy.
You know, download for your machine, you know, to say 1,000 like mine.
Right.
And you just rename it to .rom.
It would say like 1,000 with something after it.
What you do is you rename it 1,000.rom.
Format a USB stick to fat 16.
It has to be fat 16.
And all you need is probably like, it could be an old USB stick.
It could be like one that's only 32 megabytes.
Just copy it over to it, plug it into your trip.
We power up and you hit Alt F2.
And it would automatically go into the menu for the BIOS update.
And all you do is, you know, hit yes, update BIOS.
It, it, it a beep.
You're going to say it's done.
And to say power down.
And that's it.
And all there is to it.
That's nice.
Did it make any difference on yours?
Yeah, what it did was I didn't even know it until I stumbled across the, the website.
It said that at 94% of a battery charge, it would show that was, it was like a full charge.
It would just stop.
So I was losing 6%.
Right, right.
Of a full charge.
So yeah, this fixed it up and I probably get 15, 20 more minutes out of it.
Well, you get what nine hours out of yours anyway, don't you?
You know, the specs say I get like, I should get six and a half.
But I, I've got like eight hours out of it before.
Is that using, is that with a little open using it with the screen?
Like six and a half hours, I would say is like normal.
That's what I average.
You know, that's combination of, you know, adjusting the screen brightness Wi-Fi.
Right, right, right.
Stuff like that.
But if I turn the Wi-Fi off, maybe then the screen and just read like an ebook, I mean,
I can get eight hours out of it.
I mean, there's one week I was only using it for a couple hours a night reading an ebook.
And I mean, I didn't even have to charge it all week.
Yeah, that's sweet.
That's really sweet.
I actually found a Dell, a 14 inch Dell laptop, in Best Buy with a nine, I think it's a nine-cell battery.
They're saying it'll go 9.8 hours on a regular 14 inch laptop with a damn.
Yeah, but the battery is like, I looked on a Dell website.
The battery alone is like $125.
Jesus, for the battery.
Yeah.
So I don't know.
I mean, the laptop isn't cheap.
It's $699 or $749.
But, you know, you get a DVD drive in it and I don't know.
It's a real, and it's only waste, it's only waste 3.7 pounds.
I mean, it's thin, it's, it's a sweet machine.
It's either that or I'm going to go with the Toshiba though, that Toshiba netbook,
which is, you know, they're talking about eight hours plus out of that.
I don't know, they're coming a long way with a machine that I think it's my turn for a story, isn't it?
You just bloody had it.
You're talking about the laptop.
Yeah, I don't know.
What's your story?
Okay.
No, I just want to put this link in here because everybody can, I do, that's what happened.
You know when you get old, old man.
I wouldn't know about that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Just check that out.
And this is a really, this has got to be the coolest little thing I've seen in a while.
I mean, you're talking about Peter, I think you would really like this.
Well, of course it's pink.
No.
Well, scrolled down.
Well, I think I was big too, but I'm sure it won't put water on for you, but.
Well, what is it?
It's a PC.
It's a multimedia PC, but it's only seven by seven by three inches.
Who makes it?
Dell.
This is your story, man.
I'm just trying to get some information.
Yeah.
What gave that away?
I think they all written on the computer.
You know what?
I don't know.
I was looking at the pink, maybe the Inspiron in the front, but.
This thing is a, it's like a multimedia.
I could see this would be perfect for, by your TV, for myths.
I mean, this thing is, it's got, it's low power.
It's got one, you can have 1.6 or 1.8.
You can get it with Linux on it.
I mean, of course you get it with the other ones, but they're even telling you you can get it with Linux on there.
You can have up to a one terabyte hard drive in this thing.
Eight gig of RAM you can put in this thing.
You can have extra, a card you can put a, see now you go, here you go.
You can put a PDI.
Yeah.
I mean, it has ATI in it.
Yeah, man.
You can get an ATI card in it.
And it's doing HD.
And if you scroll down, Peter, you see the nice, pretty colors that's available.
I'm loving the pink.
I don't want to get a color.
I'm sure you do.
Yeah, so this is plenty powerful.
Well, the only thing is, okay, it's got the build-in integrated ATI card.
It suggests that you can add a discreet graphics card.
That's optional.
So I take it, there must be a PCI express slide in it or something.
Yeah, I would imagine.
So, yeah.
So you can obviously plug an Nvidia card into it and use VDPAU.
And you've got plenty of horsepower to run.
Yeah, this is nice.
HDMI pour on it.
Yeah.
It's got two SATA connectors, too.
I mean, they say it starts at $230.
That's the base model with the, yeah, that with the, in ATI graphics,
with the Athlon 2650E processor.
Built in wireless?
Built in wireless, yeah.
65 watts with integrated graphics, 75 watts with the discreet graphics card.
Yeah, that's a nice little system.
Okay, but how about the price?
$230, it starts at.
Yeah, to $1,024, depending on configuration.
Yeah, but that difference.
Yeah, but look, look, if you scroll down, it says,
with the windows, if you put windows on it, it's going to be more.
Yeah, but it's not going to jump from $230 to $1,000,
just because of the speed.
Well, yeah.
But I mean, you're talking about the drives.
I mean, look at the options.
You can put anywhere from 160 gig drive into it to a one carabyte.
Yeah.
Two gig to eight gig RAM.
That's $200 bucks right there.
You know, I mean.
Yeah, that's true.
Yeah.
But I mean, just look at that.
Oh, right out of the box, though.
I mean, this thing would be sharp.
It's got a six and five or six and one card reader.
You know, for your camera cards.
And I think, I think, you know,
this thing would be really the cat's ass sitting next to you TV.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It wouldn't look good if I scroll up here.
Oh, no.
But the black one would look pretty nice.
It looks a little bit like a box, don't it?
Yeah.
But slides the next box.
It would make a nice little, uh, myth TV box, too.
Well, that's what I mean.
Yeah.
Well, that's what we've been talking about.
He just didn't mean that.
Did he just wake up or what?
Must have done.
Oh, please.
I kind of, yeah.
I spaced out a Mark of life over and everything else.
Jesus.
Then I was thinking everything I would do.
If I had this thing, I'd want it.
Yeah.
I must admit, lately, I just put, uh,
4,200, I think, in my myth box in the classroom.
And to be totally honest with you, I'm not happy with it.
Because it's too noisy.
It runs too high.
I know, as an I would discuss this a lot now.
So fans all speed up.
They go that way.
I thought my water pump was running under the air.
It's kind of my water.
This is a tap run in some way.
The body, the pump is running.
And Jesus, that's the, that's your computer.
I thought.
Yeah.
I'm going to look at doing something.
Sorry.
But this would be nice.
Like, you know, if you have a, uh,
say you got a 32 inch screen mounted on the wall.
And, you know, you don't have a big entertainment center.
This would be nice on a little shelf.
You know, this thing is sharp.
Well, this would be nice anywhere, I think.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
As long as it's quiet.
Yeah.
Like, I'm really not happy.
It's, it's missing is a remote.
Well, she'd have to get one of them, uh,
Ah, that's right.
One is in your feedback, but five bucks.
Yeah.
Like you do, playing in a USB port.
Yeah.
Good find.
I might look into this.
Yeah.
Then it's coming soon.
Yeah, right.
Yeah, I found specs for the, uh,
the ones that start, start at $229.
Yeah.
It comes with the ethyl on 1.6 kHz,
8x DVD, two gigs of RAM, uh,
250 gig hard drive,
ATI radion, HD3200,
and with the Intel high definition audio.
So that's not too bad.
That should work pretty damn good, doesn't it?
Well, any problem I could say with this is
I have almost two terabits in my
mith box.
So, but you don't have to,
I mean, this would be nice.
You can stream off your,
off another PC though, right?
Yeah, but then it defeats the purpose of making this a back end
that might still be a front end,
and then you wouldn't need all half this stuff.
You could get away with the help of this machine.
Well, can you take your drive out and put it in this one?
Yeah, okay.
But, uh, yeah.
But this takes one terabit.
I've got three drives in mind at the moment.
I've got a one terabit.
I think it's a 380 and a 420 or something like that.
Yeah, but that's not quite too terrible.
This has got, uh, this has got, uh, one, two.
This has got like four USB ports.
You can put a little enclosure for your drive.
Yeah, but see, once again,
you stand at the feet, the purpose of having this small form factor.
Well, I guess, I guess this isn't for you then, Peter.
Yeah, forget it.
Yeah, forget it.
That's it.
Now you're done.
Trying to do, trying to do a nice thing for you, Peter.
Get your nice thing.
No, I'm still pretty interested in that.
Actually, I could live with one terabit drive.
I would just move all the movies.
I would hope so.
Onto my life.
I could live with that.
Great.
I got five computers that I don't have one.
I got five computers that don't equal one terabyte.
What are we going to get for the extra 800 back?
Have you got the top rated one?
Let's see.
You know what?
They're including like a 20-inch white-screen high-definition monitor and stuff like that.
Oh, I can't believe that.
Yeah, that leads to white drive.
Eight gigs of RAM, one terabyte drive.
There's a configurator.
You can just go on there and start picking stuff.
And they're like different colors.
So you have to add $30.
Oh, Peter.
Yeah, that's right.
When I went by my studio,
and we were going to buy my wife when I was well,
and she wanted the hot peak one.
It was more expensive than the jet-black one I bought.
And you can up the processor to a dual core?
Yeah.
It's really configurable.
I got to say it gets quite a little unit.
I'm interested in the cheap one.
Well, I'd be interested if you can opt for some Nvidia card.
Because I must admit, VDPIU at the moment,
I'm quite impressed with it.
There's only one card available.
That's right.
You're right in HD4330.
Yep.
With 512 megabytes of RAM,
that card has as much RAM on it as I do in my desktop.
It makes me kind of sad now.
Well, there's two cards here.
HD3200 and a HD440, right?
Well, the 32 is built in,
and the 433 is to the straight.
No, 440.
The 440.
Whatever.
Yeah, it's made for rats.
Peter don't want one anyways, too.
What's the reason?
One thing I found about that VDPIU is,
because your processor is working,
oh, doing hardly any work anymore,
your computer runs cooler and it runs quieter.
You're getting it sound like pat, you know that?
Yeah, but really, since I put this new,
well, it's not a new chip,
but it's new to the Mith box.
Sound all of a sudden has become an issue,
and I'm not happy.
I'm almost tempted to go back to the 3,500 raw box,
or buy something like this.
Like I said, this just seems to be a pretty neat little,
and I liked it because it advertised the fact
you can get Linux on it,
which has got to be cheaper than the Windows version.
And how are you going to put 3 bloody DVD,
DVD cards?
You can put, oh,
also you can get Blu-ray in this thing, too.
Yeah, that's $100 option.
Blu-ray.
Well, that was $600 when I bought the laptop.
There you go, $600.
Half-brace, buddy, half-brace.
One-sixth of price.
Yeah, I think it's a nice little, you know, low-power unit.
I mean, it's worth a look.
Maybe for a front-end.
No, it's no good for a back-end,
because you'd have to use USB truners and stuff on that.
No, the sudden you start having more hanging off
than a high-wash.
You know, that sucks down at wires.
Well, not in your lantern.
I'm talking in the time.
So you've got to do like them other guys.
Do you wrap them in that wire loom that you use in the course?
No, my mother does.
She plants them.
She gets them plants more than you get.
She plants them.
She plants them.
You know, like, ladies plant here.
No, my mother does.
You must know what plants are.
No.
If we do, we wouldn't be asking.
You've obviously never ever found the safe fishing game fishing
because you have to plant the fishing line to make a double.
Jeez.
Do you have to tease everything?
I would assume the word would be prayed.
Oh, that's what I think.
But I'm just trying to let him keep going with this, you know.
At least, that's nice when I'm talking about it.
Well, Chris, he's from the other side of the world, too.
You can't braid your lines, though, Peter.
You can't braid your power line with your cat five
or you get, you know, you get interference.
Crush, talk, or whatever they call it.
You've got to keep that not unless you're using shielded.
Then you can do that.
But if you don't have the shielded wire, then you've got to keep away
from your power wire.
Don't tell me, mom.
That's what I'm worried about.
Oh, wow.
You know, she doesn't worry about speed anyway, does she?
No.
So you come over and go, damn this thing slow.
Didn't they get new computers, your mom, dad?
No, mom's got it.
Actually, she got the 70 to you.
And the screens packed it in about the size of a thumbnail
that's gone dead on it.
Oh, you should buy her a new one for Christmas, then.
Well, actually, ma'am, my sister's been talking about that.
You should get her one of that one thousandths.
Well, actually, that's what I've been looking at.
Yeah.
Yeah.
She's a criminal one of them.
Yeah, that would be nice.
A 15-inch compact.
Well, your mom's something similar, but a bit smaller.
Yeah.
Well, it would be nice with that one thousand.
It's cheaper to ship, right?
Because it's smaller and lighter.
Yeah.
And yeah, that's true.
Well, she likes that.
I always thought she'd find the seven-two small,
but she seems to like it.
Well, she thinks it's just like 21-inch screen,
and she gets that one thousand.
Holy crap.
A lot of women like to seven-inch.
I think they like the 10-point one better.
Well, the seven-inch fits in their purse.
Easy.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's just like a banana.
Like they told it around.
Take it to the grocery store.
It's great for recipes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Full of the app whenever they want.
When they finish with it.
Yeah.
Easy to hold on, dude, dude.
I give you the four every hour.
Yeah, but in 800.
Yeah, she can find the two seats,
but I don't know what to do.
Something kind of tacky.
Just tell if you're unfolded next time.
Well, you guys hold on to your bash commands until next week,
because we are out of time.
So, thanks for listening, everyone,
and see you guys next time.
Take care, everybody.
Good night, everybody.
Good night.
Another tit is in the can.
In the bag.
Android rocks.
Another tit is in the other.
Another tit's in the ringer, huh?
That's it.
In the sack.
I'm now four bloopers.
So, so stupid.
Tip radio episode 13 starts now.
That's it.
That's it.
Okay, first off, first of all,
Hi, guys.
So, super camp.
That's the one I was looking for.
Hi, guys.
So, super camp power.
Didn't let me say.
Nooo.
Already?
That's all I got.
What the hell was that?
Oh, no.
How the hell am I supposed to talk now?
I got a wipe with tears.
Super camp power.
Oh, that was deep geek.
Okay.
That was a good beginning.
Hello and welcome to Hecker Public Radio.
You know what?
I'm going to cut this out,
put it at the end for bloopers.
There you go.
There you go.
Okay.
How much time?
Let's do it.
Welcome.
Welcome.
One and all.
Okay.
Don't rape me for so long, he do.
Oh, God.
All right.
Hello and welcome.
Hello.
Hello.
All right.
Come on.
Hello and welcome to Hecker Public Radio.
That's all right.
Okay.
Great show, guys.
Thanks.
Yeah, man.
All right.
We'll see you soon.
Good luck.
Thank you for listening to Hecker Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net.
She'll head on over to CARO.18 for all of her speed.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
