Episode: 902
Title: HPR0902: TGTM Tech News for 2012-01-09
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0902/hpr0902.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 04:40:26

---

music
You are listening to 12 Geek 3 News, number 57, record for Monday, January 9, 2012.
You are listening to the Tech Only Hacker Public Radio Edition, to get the full podcast
including political, commentary, and other controversial topics.
Please visit www.talkgeektme.us.
Here are the vials statistics for this program.
Your feedback matters to me.
Please send your comments to DG at deepgeek.us.
The webpage for this program is at www.talkgeektme.us.
You can subscribe to me on Identica as the username DeepGeek or you could follow me on Twitter.
My username there is DGTGM, as in DeepGeek TalkGeek to me.
I wanted to make a little statement at the beginning of this segment because this episode
marks me attempting to come back to an old home of mine, the place that spawned me as a
podcaster, Hacker Public Radio.
Now, Hacker Public Radio has an interesting genealogy, it all started with Ben Rev Radio,
which was a Hacker topic only and non-political podcast, and then that led into today with
a techie, which was a multiple host tech only show, and that led into Hacker Public Radio.
While it's not a rule of Hacker Public Radio to be non-political, there is a tradition
that I as an old time would there feel I have to respect.
I've been asked to come back, there has been a revival that went through podfitting and
came back under a new administration, and it's been quite a successful revival I might say,
and I'm certainly welcome back, and even my political content has been said would be okay,
but just in case there's a gulf between what the administration, what the listeners want,
what I'm going to do, as long as this show, right after I record is I'm going to hack my scripts
and create a separate Hacker Public Radio tech-only edition.
I won't be strictly tech-only because sometimes if there's a news article about censoring the
internet, that's going to fall into tech, and it's going to be about censorship. But as best I can,
this should respect the tradition of Hacker Public Radio, and it does circumvent one other thing.
Hacker Public Radio has a syndicate Thursday. Now, if I did just a show I released into my
regular feed, that would be a syndicate show, and they have 52 slots. I do 36 of these, so I think
by having a special Hacker Public Radio edition of tech news that I won't feel I'm competing
and blocking out over half of their slots for syndicated content. So we're going to try this for a
while, and I hope for feedback. You know my email address, my website address, my Twitter
feed, all in the freaking vital statistics of the show. Contact me, contact the HPR crew,
let's see if this can work out. So I'm excited about it. A warm feeling I have, we've
returned, trying to return to the fold of Hacker Public Radio. And now, the tech roundup.
From torrentfreak.com, did January 3rd, 2012, by EnigmaX. Ballerouc spans browsing of all foreign
websites. As citizens of the United States worry over the implications of the pending SOPA
legislation, a small landlocked country on the fringes of Europe is showing how bad things can
really get. Labeled by the United States as an outpost of tyranny, Ballerouc is certainly living
up to a reputation. This Friday browsing foreign websites will become an offense punishable by
fines, which service provides taking responsibility for the actions of their users. While there are
many reasons why people oppose the implementation of SOPA, a common thread is that any level of
censorship will simply encourage yet more. The fear is that an inch will become a mile,
and before long the internet will be a place of restrictions where innovation is stifled.
Those pointing to China as an example of how bad things can get should now focus a little close
up to the west on the outskirts of Europe to be precise. From January 6th, Ballerouc,
which became independent in 1991 from the collapse of the Soviet Union, will begin severely
restricting what its citizens can do on the internet. New legislation requires that anyone doing
business in the country may only utilize fully local internet domains when carrying out their
activities. As highlighted by the Law Library of Congress, this means that it will become illegal
for locals to use a site such as Amazon.com, which has no official Balleroucian presence,
indeed browsing any website outside the country will be punishable with fines of up to $125.
The initial decree issued on February 2010 by President Aliya Sander Lukashenko requires the
compulsory registration of all websites which must then be hosted in the country.
The potential damage to the Ballerouc economy and their growth from online trade will be significant
according to Alexa. Some of the world's biggest sites are listed in the country's top 20 most
visited list, including Google, YouTube, Twitter, and Wikipedia, all of which have.com domains
and US hosting. Indeed, only two sites in the Balleroucian top 10 currently appear to be legal
for local access. Additionally, the legislation will also hold into the providers,
such as cafes providing Wi-Fi responsible for the actions of their customers. If they are found
to be using foreign sites, the same responsibilities lie with home internet subscribers who share
their connections with others. The suggestion is that such providers, commercial or domestic,
will have to milder for foreign website use and report the findings to authorities.
The legislation also ensures there is plenty of data to hand over, as a minimum ISPs and web hosts
will be required to record the names and passport details of customers, along with their domain names,
a description of their site's activities, and IP addresses allocated. So for now, even Google's
Balleroucian variant, Google.BY, seems to fall outside the legal reach of citizens of Ballerouc,
hosted as it is in the United States. Twitter, Facebook, and Wikipedia have further problems,
since the .BY variants of their domains have been registered by other entities.
Interestingly, while Ballerouc's national state television has previously aired pirated movies,
such as The Hurt Locker, they won't now be able to grab them from foreign
torrent sites, as they did in the past. All you tracker, one of freshest largest torrent sites,
is Ballerouc's 20th most popular site. However, it too has a non .BY domain,
and is hosted abroad, rendering it off limits to locals. Torrents.BY will be doing lots of
business soon, though, hosted and registered in Ballerouc. From EFF.org, in January 5, 2010,
by Meira Sutton, Thailand continues massive crackdown of online speech. In Thailand, details of
the most recent victim of lay majest laws emerged this week, adding to a long year of crackdowns
on free speech in the country. Alongside the news coverage, frame against censorship and Thailand
published new analysis, demonstrating the magnitude of measures the Southeast Asian state
has taken to block websites it deems politically offensive. On Tuesday, Professor Sumsak
Jem Tier Esekul, a historian and permanent critic of the Thai monarchy,
posted updates on a university student who made comments on Facebook and March,
and April of 2010, according to political prisoners in Thailand,
royalists attacked the then 18-year-old student, Netha Khan,
Ceckel Arikat, on the internet for criticizing the king and accused her of lay majest,
resulting in the university that she had planned to attend subsequently revoking her acceptance
because of her lack of loyalty to the monarchy. For fear of being harassed, Netha Khan did not show
up to exams to apply for another university, while she ultimately was accepted to a school
a year later, royalists had in the meantime gone to the police to lodge a complaint for her comments.
In October 2011, she was charged under lay majest laws. Her first appearance in court
is scheduled for February 11, 2012. Unfortunately, the Thai government is taking other severe measures
to censor its citizens as well. Despite the Thai Foreign Minister's admission in October that the
government may have been misusing lay majest in a way that inadvertently stifled free expression,
fact posted a blog summarizing the recent history of free-willing internet censorship in the country.
The organization analyzed published reports from Thailand's Ilaw Foundation and other sources,
including figures showing hundreds of thousands of sites blocked and billions of
bought, equivalent to tens, millions of US dollars spent to block the offending pages,
fact claims that on December 28, the MICT blocked 777,286 websites. As we've reported,
Netha Khan is only the most recent case emerging involving lay majest charges.
There is a continuing case of Prakatai Editor Zhu, whose trial resumes February 14, 2012,
and the case of an American blogger who recently was sentenced to two and a half years
to Thai prison for translating a biography of the king, and around the same time as the
announcement that the Ministry of Information and Communication Technology, MICT, would begin
monitoring comments and likes on Facebook. A 61-year-old truck driver was sentenced to 20 years
for sending texts deemed offensive to the throne. The Thai government has also been found
to successfully collect information from web hosting companies to help them identify blogger's
identities. EFF condemns the Thai government's ongoing efforts to silence political speech
on the internet. International awareness of the Thai government's legal abuses could help
pressure the state to re-evaluate its draconian policies. We will be covering the trials of Zhu
and Netha Khan in February and will continue to murder any developments in the MICT's war against
free expression. From torrentfreak.com, day of January 6, 2012 by Ernesto, BitTorrent releases new
share application. BitTorrent and corporate just released a new standalone file sharing application
called Share. The application aims to make it easier for technobuses to share large files with
friends without having to get familiar with all the BitTorrent customs and lingo. Share will eventually
be integrated to BitTorrent's flagship client, UTorrent. BitTorrent and corporate is mostly known
for the development of the UTorrent and BitTorrent mainline clients, but today the company adds
another piece of software to its arsenal. Dubbed Share, the new application is targeted at people
who want to share large files with a private group of people as opposed to uploading them via
a public BitTorrent site for all the world to see. With the tagline, no more storage limits,
no more fees, it also takes a stab at increasingly popular cyber lockers.
Although the software uses BitTorrent under the hood, people are not required to create
Torrent files. Instead, they can select files on their computer, pick a person a group to share
them with, and the application takes care of the rest. According to BitTorrent's chief strategist,
Shahi Gundam, the new application fits perfectly into a world where media files grow larger and
larger by the day. Quote, with today's consumer cameras video records producing stunning
quality, traditional media sharing requires concessions. With Share, you don't have to crop photos,
reduce resolutions, or cut video links to easily share something with your friends, family
and colleagues. It's much faster than traditional cloud solutions, and easy for anyone, says Gannam.
To read the rest of the song, follow links at the show notes.
From TorrentFreak.com, by Ernesto Dea January 4, 2012,
files sharing recognized as official religion in Sweden. Since 2010, a group of self-confessed
pirates have tried to get their beliefs recognized as an official religion in Sweden. After their
request was denied several times, the Church of Copyism, which holds Control C and Control V
as sacred symbols, is now approved by the authorities as an official religion. The Church hopes
that its official status will remove the legal stigma that surrounds file sharing. All around
the world, file shares are being chased by anti-piracy outfits and the authorities,
and the situation in Sweden is no different. While copyright holders are often quick to label
file shares as pirates, there is a large group of people who actually consider copying to be a
sacred act. Philosophy student, Isaac Gerson, is such a religious file shareer, and in an attempt
to protect his unique belief system, he founded the Missionary Church of Copyism in 2010,
in the hope that they could help prevent persecution for their beliefs. The Church then
filed a request to be officially accepted by the authorities. After two failed attempts,
where the Church was asked to formalize its way of praying or meditation, the authorities finally
recognized the organization as an official religion. The Church's founder is ecstatic about this
news, and hopes that it will motivate more people to come forward as copy-mists. I think that
more people will have the courage to step out as copy-mists. Maybe not in the public, but at least
to their close ones. Isaac tells Tornfreak. There is still a legal stigma around copying for many.
A lot of people still worry about going to jail when copying and remixing. I hope in the name of
Kopimi that this will change. Although the formal status of the Church doesn't mean that copyright
infringement is now permitted, the Church's founder hopes that their beliefs will be considered
in future loremaking. During the last half year, the Missionary Church of Copimism tripled its
members from 1000 to 3000, and it's expected that the recent news will cause another surge in
followers, official member or not. Gerson encourages anyone with an internet connection to keep on
sharing. Re-confessional Kopimists have not only depended on each other in this struggle,
but on everyone who is copying information. To everyone with an internet connection, keep copying,
maintain Hardline Kopimi, Gerson concludes. Perspective followers who embrace the same calling,
or of course welcome to join the movement, link include an article, free of charge,
and now for something completely different. From perspectives.mvdirona.com did 1-2-2012
OMVA architecture by James Hamilton. Years ago Dave Patterson remarked that most
server innovations were coming from the mobile device world. He's right, commodity system
innovation is driven by volume and nowhere is there more volume than in the mobile device world.
The power management technique supplied fairly successfully over the last five years had
the genesis in the mobile world, and as process of power efficiency improves, memory is on track
to become the biggest power consumer in the data center. I expect the ideas to reign in memory
power consumption will again come from the mobile device world, just as Eskimos are reported
apparently and correctly to have seven words for snow. Mobile memory systems have a large array
of low power states with subtly different power dissipations and recovery times. I expect the
same techniques will arrive fairly quickly to the server world. OM processes are used extensively
in cell phones and embedded devices. I've written frequently of the possible impact of OM
on the server side computing world. He links to his fire articles, Linux Apache on OM processors,
OM Cortex A9 S&P design announced, very low cost low power servers, and video project
Denver OM powered servers. Reading these articles can be accomplished by
finding the links in the show notes to the original article and finding the links there to the
prior blog entries. To continue, OM remained power efficient while at the same time they are
rapidly gaining the performance and features needed to run demanding server side workloads.
A key next step was made late last year when OM announced the OMVA architecture. Key attributes
of the new OM architecture are 64-bit virtual addressing, 40-bit physical addresses, hardware
virtualization support. The first implementation of the OMVA architecture was announced the same
day by applied micro devices. Not to be confused with the manufacturer AMD and editorial comment.
The APM design is available in an FPGA implementation for development work this month and is
expected to be final in system ownership form in the second half of 2012. The APM XGIN offers
64-bit addressing, 3-gigger hertz, up to 128 cores, a super-scale quad-issue processor,
CPU and IO virtualization support out of order processing 80 gigabytes per second memory throughput
integrated Ethernet and PCIE full lamp software stack port links in the articles follow for
advanced reading on the OM processor architecture. To continue the article, in the second half of 2012
we will have a very capable 64-bit server targeted OM processor implementation available
to systems builders. Other headlines in the news to read the saw calls follow links in the show
notes. Canaries in the data mines could give it Wi-Fi chips emerge, bulk power, super-fast home
video streaming, the truth about the economics behind the blacklist bills.
News sources retain their respective copyrights. Thank you for listening to this episode of Talk Geek
To Me. Here are the vials statistics for this program. Your feedback matters to me. Please
send your comments to dg at deepgeek.us. The webpage for this program is at www.talkgeektome.us.
You can subscribe to me on identical as the username deepgeek or you could follow me on Twitter.
My username there is dgtgtm as in deepgeek talk geek to me. This episode of Talk Geek To Me
is licensed under the creative comments attribution share like 3.0 on port license. This license allows
commercial reuse of the work as well as allowing you to modify the work so long as you share
alike the same rights you have received under this license. Thank you for listening to this
episode of Talk Geek To Me. You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public
Radio. Those are we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on
day through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by
yourself. If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it
really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the economical and
computer cloud. HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are
crowd-responsive by linear pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunar pages.com for all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is
released under creative comments, attribution, share alike, videos or license.
