Episode: 7
Title: HPR0007: Orwell Rolled over in his grave
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0007/hpr0007.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 10:12:53

---

Let's dance!
Hello and welcome to today's episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I will be your host for today, Deep Geek.
Over my several years I have enjoyed many rants while listening to the podcasts and the
internet radio shows that we've come familiar with.
And I hope you can imagine my surprise when I found a documentary that showed how
the situation all these rants were about came about to be.
I have enjoyed listening to the rants of dual about how the media has become a wasteland
about how lousy clear channel communication stations are and how we should become the
media.
I've also enjoyed thanks rants about the corruption of our government in Washington and how bad
the RIA and MPAR.
I was searching through some bit torrent search engines to see if I could possibly find
out about a documentary mentioned on binary revolution radio about George Orwell's life.
But instead I found something else that I thought was so informative to us as Geeks
and hackers and I found it only because it had Orwell in its title.
So I want to give a detailed review of a film that documents the merging of the following
elites in American society, the financial elite, the political elite, and the media elite.
And the film I want to review for you today is called Orwell Roles in His Grave and came
out in 2003.
It was directed by Robert K. Papas and many notable people appeared in this documentary.
There's Charles Lewis who is a former 60 minutes producer, Peter Mitchell Moore, a former
editor of the New York Post, Professor Robert Mick Chasney, founder of mediareform.net.
Michael Moore, which we all know as a documentary director and is also an author, a representative
from Vermont, representative Bernie Sanders, U.S. congressman, Vincent Bugliosi, who's a legal
scholar who successfully prosecuted Charles Manson and wrote the book The Betrayal of
America.
And I will go through several main points and also list several of the scandals that were
documented by this film.
Main points that the media is now a special interest, a lot like the tobacco and automotive lobbies,
they function a lot like the Ministry of Truth in George Orwell's novel 1984, although
it is enhanced by their usage of what we call valorization.
Valorization is a term that refers to the fact that if enough people repeat the same
lie enough times, people will believe them no matter what.
Another main point is that the financial elite and the political elite have merged.
Most of the powers that be has dropped to less than 25% of the American people trusting
their government.
This figure, this 25% is a third of the same figure at the height of our country's Vietnam
war scandal.
So this figure which is so low is the symptom or the problem that caused the symptom of
people just refusing to vote, people feeling that they have no representation of Washington
that they cannot have a voice in our government.
That's because of this.
The consolidation of the media, whether it be the thousands of radio stations or the hundreds
of cable channels, does not represent a diversity of viewpoint because they are owned by the
same small number, less than a dozen of media companies.
That the media is the largest lobbyist in Washington and they also have a unique ability
to sense with politicians at will.
And also the media is owned by the wealthiest percentiles of our country.
Conservatives and Republicans are funding think tanks which create a future, our country's
future, right ring propagandists, let's have trouble saying that right ring propagandists.
This constitutes an a form of ideological warfare against the American people.
And this is where our interests should peak that the internet is being changed from open
access to closed access.
By the telcos, the cable and media interests.
This from a movie in 2003 which successfully predicts the reasons that will be given
to try to sell this to the American people.
This has become known as the net neutrality debate.
So this documentary, you know, it elucidates on those main points, but also shows those
main points through several scandals of recent times that it documents.
The scandals such as the Bush Brother Collusion to disenfranchise voters in Florida in 2000.
The involvement of the Supreme Court justices to squelch all efforts of a fair vote count
in Florida on behalf of a party which so often speaks of state rights.
The October surprise to out present Jimmy Carter and replace him with the Republican president.
Also documents another scandal how FCC regulations being changed against the will of the American
people to allow for the mass purchases of radio stations by monopoly style companies such
as clear channel communications.
How legal bribes actually work for both FCC officials as well as congressmen and senators.
Also the subsequent ability of senate organizations to financially punish those who publicly disagree
with them.
So I think this documentary is a fantastic documentary.
I hope you all will try to rent a coffee or borrow a coffee from a library or perhaps even
purchase a coffee to check out and enjoy.
And that I hope this enhances your understanding of the world and which we live in.
Today's geek tidbit, I promised you guys a little bit of poetry so I'm going to share
with you a geek high coup written by Charlie Gibbs.
Eris have occurred.
We won't tell you where or why lazy programmers.
Thank you and that concludes today's episode of Hacker Public Radio.
