Episode: 898
Title: HPR0898: 2011-2012 Hacker Public Radio New Year's Eve Part 8/8 (The After Show)
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0898/hpr0898.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 04:35:49

---

Howdy folks, this is 5150. What you're about to hear is the result of me starting a mixed-down
recording in mumble when Poki said he was about ready to stop recording and go to bed.
While it's all pretty tame, it's not entirely safe for work. I started recording sometime
after midnight central time, and the original file shows that we talked for another two hours
and 15 minutes. However, leading the pauses brings it down to about an hour and a half.
At the end, it's just me and Cobra II proving that as in real life, I never know when it's time
to gracefully leave a party. Among the other voices you will hear are Poki, Delwin, J. Newster,
Delteray, Door-door Geek, and I thought it was especially cool when the world wrapped around,
and Ken Fallon came back here after having gone to bed the night before. I didn't have the foresight
to make note of all the handles active in the room, and the festivities of the evening did not
enhance my recall, so I apologize to those I have overlooked. With the help of the community,
I hope to get you properly credited in the show notes, even if it is after the fact.
I regret I wasn't able to participate, or listen to the entire 13-hour scheduled recording,
and since I'm speaking to the future, I'm sure I'll be enjoying those missed hours, even as you
hear this. I want to add my voice and gratitude and congratulations to those who organized and
participated in making this event a success.
I think I need to get to bed, or at least
go home all my way for a while, so I'll be back later if y'all are still there.
Yeah, I'm going to kill the stream guys. Thanks for coming in, Door.
No problem at all. We were where my mother-in-law's house took my two kids and my nephews out
back with pots and pans, let them bang, and once they were done, I said, come on, we gotta go.
That's just tired, tired, running around.
Hey Russ, if you're listening, I always want to say howdy to you, and occasionally see you in the
Linux basics, but you never talk in the room. It shows a little bit late form, he gets tired.
I know the feeling. So, Door, what is this, um, the new radio,
Matt, what is that? Tracey Holtz went into his own pocket, purchased a service,
and he wants to basically start up like an internet radio station of replaying podcast,
broadcasting, other people's podcasts live, and having a little bit of original content.
Right now the site looks like something from GOC these days, but it's going to change.
Well, it's a great idea. I'm just programming it.
I've traced his, honestly, I'm not sure.
Well, we were talking earlier today, where their hacker media was still going, which is
replay stuff from BenRav, which HPR makes up the lion's share, and I think everybody involved
with HPR, if that's not still going, would be glad to see that content.
Played in a venue, where it was just going all the time.
They do a similar thing over on Linux outlaws, where they've got their
feed running all the time now, which makes it easy to lock onto before the show starts,
but they're just playing the same song over and over and over again.
It's a good song though. Yeah, I agree with you there.
Gotcha. Tracy, I mean, he gave me the admin passwords and everything, but he said he wants
to do something with this site. He adds in mind, and with the content, he basically asked me,
asked anybody I want to, who I think would want to do some kind of show about, give us a idea
for a show, even if you don't want to do it yourself, and then like, you know, pitch them to people.
But he does think at least in the beginning, 90 plus percent of the content is going to be
rebroadcast from other places, and even when we hit full, like, you know, stride, still going to be
easily 70 percent is going to be re-played content. Is there going to be an ice cast server or
something like that you can actually listen to it on other devices?
Yep, there already is an ice cast, a shoutcaster I cast. It's one of them.
And I can see people looked at the source of the page, took the stream feed out and put it into
VLC or totem. I didn't go that far. Yeah, but fine for me, just to
just listen to it on a different one that had the feed already there.
Well, I tried to plug it into VLC, but I was working on my old HP tablet that has a
transmedia processor and VLC code won't run on it. That's us.
Yeah, it's good to run with this sort of a netbook. You guys all amaze me with all of the
technology and the new things that you come up with every week or so.
Not me, all my stuff runs on old garbage.
Well, I just mean starting a new deal station and having tons of podcasts coming out of
your ears and stuff is just amazing. One thing I want to complicate out today, and we've got
the chance to can because people like me are getting content to them. He's picking up all these
other great podcasts and playing them, and now I want to start listing those podcasts,
and I can't keep up with the ones that I have. I agree.
When you already listen to 50 podcasts, how can there be a 51st one to go into your queue?
I don't know, but I want them all. I thought I thought I was aware of all the great Linux
casts, and they're just two or three really good ones. Those Sunday morning guys that have
been on there a couple of times are really good. Comber two, I saw you light up. I'd absolutely
none of that. Over two, your audio is gone. You can see you light up, but there's nothing coming
through at all. Hey, 5150. I don't know if I ever publicly thanked you for your help last year,
during the whole sticker drive, sticker campaign. That was another idea that would have
withered on the vine and died if it didn't get support, and I'm pretty sure you were the first
guy to step up and help out with that send me a check for some money. That's, yeah, that was for
real. I don't know if I ever publicly thanked you for that, but I certainly could mean to several
times, because it made a big difference to me knowing that somebody thought the idea was a good
one. Oh, I'm sure you did on one of your podcasts. I know Ken acknowledged it on least
monthly wrap-up podcast, so that's morning sufficient. All right, good. I keep wondering,
every once in a while, I'll think about it. I wonder if it's gone unsaid, and I don't like
things to go unsaid if I can help it. No problem. I want to start, I might want to start
to thinking of a new design. I've only got two stickers on the back when I open my pick up,
and I can still see it. All right. Oh, man, that's one thing I meant to say to
to go phenomenal too, is it? That's the two things on it. Well, there's three things on that
netbook that I have on a little EPC. It was an HPR sticker, a good new sticker, and CrunchBang.
Yeah, how cool was that that he popped in there? That was really cool. That might be
by highlight of 2011. Can you hear me now? Yeah, you're back now.
Well, I've been trading your stall over. I sent a... Oh, door can tell me who it is on Linux
Basics. It's escaping right now, who made up the Linux Basics sticker. So I got those,
and I sent a few along to Knuckle to distribute over at Ohio Linux Fest.
Oh, I've got to give me a Linux 6 sticker. That could be, that could go on either one of my laptops.
I got a guy in Hawaii named Jonas R. I actually did one time PayPal money. He got mad and
paid out of back to me. He said, anybody who wants stickers, just contact them, because he
worked at a place that makes stickers, and his ball set, as long as he's the top producer,
he can take the runoff and do what he wants to with. That's wicked cool. Can you email that to me?
So I'll have it tomorrow and it won't get lost in this fog. Yeah, I know I have it on the
forums. I just got to find it. That's so cool. Yeah, I can give you one.
Yeah, I thought I'd tell me about that a few months ago, Poking. In any case, he already has the
PDF of the oval stickers that you sent me. Sweet, sweet. Yeah, maybe you did. I don't remember.
It's I'm so embarrassed because until this week when Dore and Bruce got to me, like Linux
basics was like a thought in the back of my mind that didn't I didn't associate with anything.
I wasn't sure what it was and they invited me to come on the show and yeah, holy smokes. It's
such a good show. I got to know how I've missed it this long. Yeah, I stopped listening to Linux
podcasts and then I listened to that and I started to listen to a whole lot of them after that.
Yeah, there definitely were a few a couple of Linux podcasts that made me want to stop listening
for a while, but I'm not going to say which ones with any recorder going for share.
Yeah, and the gimmick is Linux basics really is the brain child of a knucklehead tech and a
John new new us that are Josh pays for everything and won't take a dime for me at least.
And John does every bit of sight admoning that is needed to be done and he does a fantastic job.
I'm just the guy that gets hit in the face with the pie when someone gets mad.
Yeah, I tell you, I got I owe it to Russ the techie geek for hooking me up on all the great
podcasts. His was the first useful Linux podcast I found I'd done certain because I'd been in
the podcast. I'd listen to some gaming podcasts. I started looking for stuff on Linux and
closest thing I found were a bunch of Scottish guys who got really drunk and talked about ruby on
rails and they were they were really funny, but I'm not it wasn't anything I was really into and
I was sort of getting in the desperation of finding a Linux podcast that would while I was
first starting out that would tell me any information I could really use. And then I listened to
to Russ and from there I found bad apples and and HPR and Linux outlaws and short order and
that kind of straight me out. Yeah, right on there's there's so many good ones.
Anytime anybody mentions bad apples or do all the order now it's just it's shocking to me how
good that show is that you know caught who can just row together or at least he makes it seem
like he's just throwing them together you know he's got just a little portable recorder he's not
real bothered about the sound quality and he puts out some of the most astonishing content that
you know even if the world knew about it they probably just ignore it and pass it off but if you
if you listen to it it's like some of the best stuff on earth.
Yeah, well I just wish I could develop that all that he and all some of the guys
have you ever pulled down any of the the older episodes from like the today with the techie feed?
No, I didn't I didn't even know that existed until it was gone. I have all of them.
Yeah, I should go back and listen to them but if I could ever catch up on the parent podcast I would do that.
Well, I was gonna say the whiskey was interrupting my brain cells. No, I wish I had the talent of
Clot 2 and Dave Yates and Mr. Gadgets just to be able to start expounding on a on a topic and
appear to be area diet you know for 30 to 90 minutes of the time because I found I just can't
do anything unless I make up a script and and or an outline and sit there in front of audacity so
when I mess up I can go back and erase it because I tried all last winter to sit there with a
sense of clip while I was doing other things working on an engineer feeding cattle or something
and try to record a podcast and always be all I said that wrong I I didn't remember the really
clever way that in practice I was going to say that now I've got to go back and I always thought
if I could get all the way through podcast and make it the way I wanted it then I could save that
if I had to go back and count pieces where I needed to go back and say something differently
than it would take more time in editing then it did record in the first place.
I've only recorded a couple podcasts but I found that it's easier for me just to say like a
couple lines and then stop and then go again. It's not bad at all it's really good thinking.
I just think it's funny that you said that Dave Yates was area-dite in his own way he is
he may be able to translate Fedora into southern but what he says in southern it really is area-dite.
Yeah I miss his podcast I wish he drove some more out there. Yeah I do too I miss it I really
think that his show was really good really I'm in great and I don't know about area-dite but
yeah he's very smart and he can tell you what he knows. Yeah keep it in between the ditches.
Yeah and he's got one of the classic like all-time best HPR episodes when he did the
April who will show where he drove off the road. Well I've tried to do that with while driving and
all you hear with me and my old trucks is a bunch of wind noise and rattling and creeks and
backfires and engine noise and such you never hear me. That's music man it's background music.
That's the mood. I tried it once when I had my civic and all you can hear was the fart knocker exhaust.
All right guys I got to actually get off here and finish editing a podcast before I get more
threatening emails. If you guys didn't see before he leave door one that I have been recording and
I don't think anybody said anything that would cause them embarrassment or anything and if they
did it for HPR I'll keep it if they don't uh that's you know that's fine too but I just want to
warn everybody like they tell you that this phone call is being recorded. Got you got you.
Well happy new year door and everybody else probably head out too. Yeah we're done. Happy new year
everybody. Thank you guys I'll talk to you guys later. See you door happy new year. Yeah keep up
to good work door. Thanks guys and I'm going to try to convince Tracy to record a episode being him
tomorrow for her. Wish me luck. Good luck. Too late. I say that all the time. Wish me luck.
Nobody ever does. I tried to get them in time. Good luck on editing that podcast. Oh man
I don't even know what I'm going to do. I made just you know literally speed it up to 4x and wait
for laws in the conversation and just clip it at that point and put it up as is because
that there's not my backlog of editing of podcasts that is huge already.
See there you go there's another um you have to edit out. Balls.
Just screw editing just chop it up into our segments and post it. Yeah that's about what it's
gone to. I don't think it'll be hours but it'll be yeah just just waiting for pauses in the
conversation that's now I'm just going to clip it there. It's the only the only bit of editing
that I'm going to do is um and I don't know if you guys noticed when the server would clip
somebody off mid sentence and then as the the traffic found its way to get to you
let you clip it mid word and the traffic you get to and the guy would light back up again
and the word would continue right there. I may try to put those back together
and I will have to sync up the audio because multi-track mumble gets out of sync
maybe half an hourish. Well I noticed I'm probably just on my hand when we're talking about
gaming and Dan was in there and I'd lose him for like 30 seconds of the time and it would
always plug back in and at the point where he left off and I was amazed when I joined back in
and started talking that you guys weren't half an hour ahead of me someplace.
Mumble seems to do pretty good for even stuff in sync. Yeah it does pretty good keeping it in
sync but the recordings get out of sync. It seems like anything 30 to 45 minutes you'll start
noticing that people are talking over each other in the recording that you don't remember talking
over each other um you know during the live stream. I had this dream play in uh in the background
the entire time or the entire time I had my stream going and I noticed like during some pauses
everything would just catch up and everybody would talk all over each other. Yeah I had that too
well earlier in the afternoon when we were all trying to talk at the same time and then everybody
would pause and wait for somebody else to talk and everybody decided to hit their key at exactly
the same time. It may be thank we need to incorporate in the mumble the same sort of random delay
that's uh in the entire ethernet protocol so that when you have a bunch of people in the room you
hit your key you have a random random delay before you can start talking. That's so bizarre I had
the exact same thought that when people when it was working part when mumble was working perfectly
and people noticed that they were talking over each other that's exactly what happens is
everybody lifts off the key and uh I mean unless they're like deep into a point that they don't
want to lose but pretty much everybody lifts off the key and there's a random pause until somebody
keys up again but yeah I I had the exact same thought people it worked just like the internet in that
scenario. I wonder if Gorkon could lay off the mic on mumble. You know I had a really evil thought
the last several days to mess with Poki we needed a Gorkon soundboard to plug in here.
Oh that would be so mean. How did you how do you mean you wonder if you could lay off the mic?
What do you mean by that? Uh he he's a conversation controller and doesn't like silence like
he's fine when you're talking to him face to face but like he's uh oh I'm sorry you said Gorkon
I'm sorry no I was I don't know it's late and I've been drinking I was thinking somebody else
didn't get it at all yes now I absolutely get it. No well I apologize I got no issues with him or
nothing just controls the mic a little bit. Yeah I I'm not a fan. No we went to bed Kim. Uh that's
good it'd be like absolutely ridiculous to be still over this hour. Yeah if you even knew it's
like one thirty over here I'd be insane to be still up emailing people and thanking them.
How did it go? Unbelievably well it was absolutely horrible everything crashed.
Difficult HPR has opened. Well that did happen too but it was still good.
So what are you going to do with him? Sure are we going to release this thing?
Uh sorry man Mike died just as you keyed up in my head let's set can you come in my wireless
that can you repeat that? So how are we going to release this? I'm not entirely certain yet
I agree with the uh you know get cut it and put it out with all the warts and stuff in it for
the most part but I do have to sync up the audio because it does get out of sync. To be honest
poke what I think you should do far be from me tell you but is use the single word of the mixed
ones because you're just asking for an immense amount of work otherwise. Yeah I've been considering
it I appreciate the suggestion and the the the validation. What? No I must say hats hats off to
you Pokey either a fantastic job goodness put together absolutely brilliant. I think
to take can up on is uh see this is why we need the random delay now it's going to say you
should take can up on is going standing off or just to uh record whatever and send it to him
and let him do that. Oh no no no Ken does a lot in the back channel that stats not even fair
but uh if if he did that that's absolutely fine but I can guarantee I'll have it out in 15 minutes
I run it through ffmpeg chop it off into one hour chunks and that's all you be listening to for the
next uh don't know 12 12 right on no I I said several times tonight in a case you weren't here when
I said it I'll repeat it but I I honestly didn't do anything and can't take credit for anything other
than saying to a whole bunch of people who I consider to be my friends that I was going to be here
from noon to midnight I didn't put any servers together I didn't put any streams together I didn't
put any mirrors together I didn't bring any topics to the table and I didn't hold any guns to
anybody's heads and tell them they had to participate this was this was absolutely everybody but
me that I mean the guy who held a gun to my head was over two. Oh he should send the uh the
audio to clat 2 he'll edit it for you. No I'll take care of it honest I got it. Okay
yeah we'll take six months they have the commercials. I have a script for that don't worry
scriptural which? In John Alcho prep audio prep underscore audio.sh written by code currently.
Oh right right yeah no I'll I'll I'll get something figured out count I won't I won't uh
nitpick over this one like I do with that. Good man good man I just have this fear that the audio
like with the audio book club it's recorded for three months and then we're all on the beach
and you were now you know you're well my friend. Well I had the idea and I never got into
set we should record it like one of those hall day variety shows and the in the 70s uh start out
welcome welcome to the HPR uh new year special starring uh Pokey and Peter 64 and special guest
appearance by 5150 and Notre Dame marching band and uh Magic Johnson and Charo and such.
I totally missed Charles I take it a leak. Well you must have walked out of the range of your
headphones. Damn it I think I like her. Who is she? She does Kuchy Kuchy whatever that was.
He can yeah the flack files that I have here the single the mixed down ones not the multi-channel
but the the single stream is is 2.0 gigabyte of flack. Super I think we should just use that
seriously I really do I think uh we should just add on the mailing list ask people what they
what they think but my personal preference is whack it into different chunks randomly caught them
the second part as somebody suggested earlier you've been listening to the first half of
tune into well for the second half and then over overlapped by five seconds I've got I've got six
pieces of flack here they're six different files and they are very randomly cut I have no idea
how long each of them is and she's out of it the only thing if you were going to do that to be
single stream I would say run it if you can if you can batch it run it through something that
kills the silence so that it can put back you know people's words back together where the delay was
and so is there a way to batch that to just I mean I can easily open on these things so I have no
idea I'm sorry that too much no actually I know you can do it on audacity I can load these things
into audacity and delete the silence and get them back out but just loading 13 hours of audio
into audacity could take a bit of time well I wouldn't do the whole thing at once like first then do
the editing it's already cut it's in six pieces because I it random intervals stopped the recording
and restarted it so that if I lost something I didn't lose all of it you know cartoon help me
if that the other day you probably already know that you need to sample silence and then you
know do do the filter for silence is first and then you or do the I'm sorry sample sample the noise
where the silence is do the noise filter first and then do remove silences yeah I got what you're
saying I understand what you're saying but you don't have to do that with a mumble recording because
in mumble a silence is literally silence there's no data there whatsoever it's a completely flat
line so you don't need to level it out first you can just run it through a a I forget what the
filter is called truncate silence I think is in filter you just run it through a truncate silence
and it will make everything happen quicker actually it doesn't actually do that yeah truncate silence
yeah you run through a truncate silence filter and you tell it there's a couple of settings
in there you tell it what the minimum amount of silence you want it to ignore and anything longer
than that it will chop down and you tell it what to chop it down to and you can you know get down
into milliseconds if you want it's it's also known as the make me sound smarter filter
oh man that would be the umphilt that one really well the umphilt would work too but if you can train
yourself to be silent instead of using umphilt then it is it's the same thing
yeah you sorry go ahead absolutely brilliant no no I just want to say that's brilliant
what we also need to do as well in hindsight is do like what Cardinal said make a list of what
we want to talk about when we're going to talk about what topics we've covered but also things
like suggested topics this is a brilliant place together suggested topics one of which being
how to do an audio filter in audacity yeah I I I agree and disagree at the same time about the um
like the topic list if we're gonna record a show because it's really really hard to ask people to
come on when they can pop in pop out with whatever time they can but when they're there talk about
this list of things that we've compiled for you I I just to me it didn't feel right to do that so
I just asked people to bring their topics and um and again I could be wrong I just don't you know
I think you're right it's no harm to have a list of at this point we were talking about this
then we weren't talking about this handy for the show not to oh oh you mean back and making a list oh
I thought you meant like prepping a list of subjects if we did this again well yeah we'll be
no harm to have people coming on in particular times you know some of the regulars like the fedora
review I did at a particular point you know so if there's a little in conversation and let's
people go off and get a break or you know yeah yeah well I think what I'd listen to uh works the
well I was afraid because I admit to be here even more than I was today I thought it might
wind up being the poke and 5150 show and I was just so glad to see so many other people in there
you you had higher expectations than I did I thought it was going to be poke and silence
I was downloading creative commons music I knew a couple of people said they would
and they could but I you know what does that mean why I'm a little sad that we didn't see
completely outside the hpr community I mean we have some from uh doors crowd by I wouldn't
call them outside I was hoping to bring in some of the guys from Linux outlaws and uh few of
the other shows and some people maybe aren't on shows and etc that it uh seen you notice
actually we actually did there were a couple of guys whose whose names I recognized who are um you
know a lot more active over there but but um like like NY bill um and a couple of those guys those
guys are are are pretty active in the Linux outlaws crowd but um I was hoping to get the lurkers to
come out of the woodwork I was hoping to get people who have never been on you know just listeners
and fans that's what I was really looking forward to and then we did get a couple and I was thrilled
on can I'm afraid this has to count as my podcast for 2011 or me if you public that's fine
but it's 2012 now you slow me a podcast yeah nice I've got a few in the queue with homes included
all right guys I have to go to bed now I'm falling out of my chair thank you everyone
pokies well done congratulations awesome super thanks yeah thanks everybody congrats happy new year
happy new year everybody sleep hard pokie yeah you know it I got to get up about five hours
for church so yeah how much sleep as hard as I can folks at my church would string me up if they
saw me sit inside this bottle of jack and yeah good night yeah that didn't occur to me to bring
the bottle theater I'll be back in a minute I put the bottle in my pocket that's definitely going
into a promo somewhere just curious are any of you on laptops I'm actually at my desktop
I am I'm on my laptop but it's on a wired connection I am a wireless but I have a really fat pipe
oh and transitioning over to nerdy things as anyone run the the all-fold Broadcom BCM 4312 card
now the burn to my Broadcom stuff to be run anything belong to them well that's what came
installed by default for a wireless card in my laptop and I still have to have the proprietary
drivers installed to fire the card up but there have been significant advances with the with the
open source drivers that now I can after a fire the card up I can remove the proprietary driver
and load in the open drivers and have injection support for aircraft do you use that often
anytime I'm not at the house in this little town where I live I've every single
web key that is here okay I got to go guys talk to you later bye so you can now I really wish
somebody had got that cricket sound board going so co-broad if you want to say what small town
that is that you correct yeah Graham Bay Westfield New Brunswick and I shouldn't say it's the
entire small town it's it's the routes that I travel along most like while you're driving
yeah and walking back and forth from I work at a little bakery right down it's about two miles
from the house and I walk back and forth most of the time when there's not snow outside so I just
have aero dump running the entire time are there are there are there mostly webbies are there
a wpa or wpa 2 there is significant amount of everything I target the web first and then I go for
the wpa 2 because the ISP here sends out their fiber connections with a default 10 digit key that
is all numbers and their wireless access points have a it has their company name and then it has
three numbers so they're really really easy to identify interesting I've cracked three of those
you've cracked three wpa 2 keys yes sir okay well like I said they're they're all digit codes
and they're all numerical so I mean there's a finite number of keys there all right okay I'm not
completely coherent right now so you know oh no worries I like to talk are these usually
forward passwords or no they're in their own numerical it's like one two three four five six seven eight
nine zero it's just the default key that comes better that the ISP sends out
okay one of my jobs at the school I try to give all the grade school kids unique passwords and of
course I see teachers with a ring binder laying around to follow the kids passwords it's like
why do I bother that's kind of pointless but yeah of course I find a lot of teachers passwords stuck
them monitors and in the desk and etc I used to work for the public school system back
on a Georgia where I used to live and there was one teacher she wrote her username and her
password on a chalkboard and left it there all year yeah that sounds familiar frustrates me a
little one about half the teachers you know they're all completely random passwords but I have a
memorized just from having to work on their accounts I like it when the teachers can't figure out
why the students are changing their grades that hasn't happened yet and all the older kids may
have gone with consolidation and stuff they're hiring out different schools so we have it I don't
thank anybody in the junior high is probably smart enough of course a lot of the software out there
is always worried me of course there's backups but for the software to work the entire folder
for the application on the server has to be opened everyone what software are you all using
all of your academic softwares like that uh that all you you'd be amazed how much of that stuff
was written in windows 3x era applications there well they're fine their counting system for
all the teacher salaries and stuff was written in fox pro I'm dealing with something that was
written for fox pro at my little bakery job right now and I won't just shoot myself in the head
every time I go sit down in front of that thing well a lot of these things are going online this
company that had the fox pro application was bought out by a company saying what it does are
grading and it's all it's moved from local to being all through the web and I can just imagine
because I imagine I imagine the first thing they did was fire all the coders from the old
application and somebody handed them all this code in fox pro and they said who you want us to do
what the school I was working out they used no veil and they had something called sassy for all
their registration information yeah I work at another school if their server was no veil 5 and it
was like two three versions out of date when I got there and I learned the system but you couldn't
find anything for work and well that they had their their location in a satellite location that
had backup drives and like you couldn't even the backup drives died and I think it was no
veil 5 and you couldn't even find a compatible drive and of course you try to ask a question
on the no veil forums and unless you were up to a certain level and understanding no veil they
just wouldn't even talk to you I called the company for software that this bakery has for their
database and I was just trying to ask them was it possible to retrieve any passwords out of it
because all the passwords had been lost and they would not tell me squat unless I paid them a
year service contract yeah we have one like that the software's got a back got to take back to
95 uh ear maybe windows 3.1 and the new version is uh three grand uh just a start with well
I'll be back in just a minute I have a real world thing I got to deal with yay more crickets
and by no if we're still being recorded for the official recording for the official one no for the
after hours yes by after hours do you mean the official after hours are all of our recordings uh 51
50s recording something and I don't know what he's going to do with it he'll probably smash it
together and turn it into an episode right now I have about 5.5 gigs with the wave files
that have this show do you have the whole lot not the whole thing probably since about I don't know
eight o'clock or so I did a server side or not a server but everything that I pulled from the
string which was all aug I just recorded that on my server I just started up and player with the
audio output to a wave file it was seemed easy enough and then I set up a wild loop
and a uh incrementer so that if it got cut off it would restart it with a new number
could it actually sounds like a hp or episode there or if anything I should post it to CLI magic
make a hpr episode first do both or any of you CLI magic followers yes no can I recognize your name
yeah I love that side it's on my rss feed all the time but actually that is a valid
episode this is how you do this an employer send it it would slap an intro and outro on and then
you know then you're done I was actually bit you know when clatu actually had to encourage me to
make my first hpr episode and I was like is this really you know worthy of talking about on hpr
it was the first one was the episode where I talked about the history of desktop transparency
and but he said there was worthwhile and he helped me actually edit it and and stuff
I've been I've gotten a know of a lot of comments about that episode actually
and it's going to be a long time since it's been on the Linux basic as well
oh really that's interesting you should realize that we have had an episode on digging out a septic
tank did you say of eating out of a septic tank no digging one out okay that's a whole different
show if you go back and listen to the the old plot episodes they've got everything from
let's see what are they called potato launchers to crazy things
well that same guy and he always seemed like he was a little lit did a podcast his last one there
was some uh uh Linux conference in uh Washington DC where you were supposed to throw stuffed animals
at the speakers and people were coming up with different launchers and he was talking kind of
like a potato gun but he was building this contraption of plastic tubing and two part binary
explosives to launch these uh stuffed animals at the speaker and that was the last one he ever
did I'm just wondering how much time he's doing now yeah the smooth on that's the comfort
you know what I kind of wonder how mean when I posted a link to CLI magic today for the HPR
for this event I actually shortened the link and bitly and when you do that it actually tells you
how many hits the like that url has gotten through other shortened urls and it actually only showed
three so far so um I got like 67 hits on it today but there's only been 70 total
I was kind of surprised I thought that you know HPR would have gotten more hits of course it was
to the main page instead of individual pages but I don't know are there any stats for how many
people listen to HPR someplace I know that there was discussion of that the other day and uh
all cast planets somebody had the specs yeah I have there's about some 500 people download a show
every day um then that's just regular contributors who are subscribed to the rss feed and then we
usually get about double that in every episode wow that's that's a lot that's quite a few great
job guys and it also um seems what is that the people who download the show tend to be um
you know podcasters and souls are involved in the free software community quite a bit so
I don't know how many I think you have to be fairly hardcore to be listening to all of HPR
yeah exactly we do um we get a lot of college radio and stuff uh who will re-brokast us and
I've had you know some of the only feedback I had for my own shows has been from you know
be over in Japan who said you're wrong you know it's you do like this whatever it was I was explaining
and I was like what is this guy on about you know the show was one of the probably the first shows
that I ever did and of course in that time everything has moved on you know so it was valid back then but
um yeah it's it's it's kind of weird we're also an archive that org is
well can I uh can I go ahead and I was before you got back on I was telling people how annoyed
I was with you because uh it's my own fault for all the shows I want to do staying in my head
and and on my hard drive instead of on the FTP uh that uh you've been in a lot of these
syndicated shows and there's so much so many great podcasts that you've introduced me to over
the last couple months that uh that I have no talk that I want to listen to and I have no time
for any more podcast and so I'm just kind of angry with you that's absolutely fine more hours
than today what do you need to do to start speeding up your podcast that's what I do
oh I should by fine I find I don't enjoy them as much that way now you tend to listen to the first
one or two just so I know how they host talk and normal speed and then I just speed them up two or
three times um some of the old shows that I listen to you know I've been like till so whatever
for and all the people's voices and accents I speed them right up over time and then a new
podcast I will need double speed it well I can also fault pokey because I got into a lot of
listening to audio books which isn't his fault I listened to uh owner sharing a few others
uh over the summer so that put me back on my podcast but he did
and his suggestion and I listened to uh uh handbook for the criminally insane or whatever
and that I'll just drop right in his lap so when he listens to the feed for this he can
he can own up to that one so much good content out there the owner shares that I think he put me
onto owner shares well and uh I really like the audio book club I've been very interested in
that as soon as that comes out I listen to it I've decided not to listen to the last episode because
um how book would be insane walking home between the graveyards as I as I have to do it was scary
enough and I don't want to be watching uh listening to another horror book well I'm not sure
that one's good enough to scare anybody uh actually the zombies in it or the or the one zombie was
the funniest part in fact that was the only the zombie was the only character I really cared about
in the whole book sorry for the delay coming in and out and getting breakfast ready for everybody
here so um but I really did enjoy handbook for the criminally insane it was nice and wacky the way I
like it reminded me very much of Sean of the dead if any of you seen that movie yeah I have that
one I saw it about a month ago I've gotten into the bad habit of where I've got all these uh
some pdf and I've been exporting all the text out of it and then through fell
stable and listening to that very good idea I prefer e-speak myself it's a lot easier to configure
I just like listening to the lion yeah we need to bring her back I think if uh deviates doesn't
come back soon I'm going to be doing a Friday the uh april second first show based on lean
i'm just gonna say that's a great idea she should just full podcast for hpr telling about how
Dave died I see Dave and I are see every day never talks I have spoken to him at the ages
let's see any of the text over Christmas one of the h-bars are really liked recently I'm finally
catching up oh I'm not I was scrolling back and I think I know who the author was but the one
talked about that uh creative content perhaps should be handled uh through a repo like a ppa or
whatever when yep every day when you uh uh do an update on your distro you'd also download all your
create uh bring your creative content up today that's just because where I have a slow internet
connection that always works but I I've always had my problems with g potter and I can't get seem to
get the bash potter uh configured right that just somehow seems to be like a completely capital
idea see somebody like you would probably benefit from a bit torrent to download your podcast
yeah if they had if I could find a place where they had the torrent for it yeah you uh if you want
I can torrent it for you we can definitely set something up see down to our podcast and see
that common Linux podcast because I'm downloading them in any way well I'm trying to uh build a site
that's built around uh creative commons media so hopefully one day in the next year so that'll be
up well bash potter appealed to me uh because I'd like to you know with g potter you got to
leave a whole desktop up and running and uh for a while now I've been using a chumbi sort of
smart download tool uh what you can ask that sage him to remotely at the uh probably the desktop
interface on the chumbi as far as I can tell as close to useless as possible but uh now I finally
have an actual real server setup and I've been just using w get on there but uh all respect to
link it's my problem not you know not his uh all the hacks and stuff that I've been trying to do
to bash potter to make it work like I want it to work it seems like I've got it work downloads the
podcast every time instead of downloading any new ones what I suggest uh is you have a look at
uh mash potter by chess griffin he's taken links script and uh added a load of stuff um where you can
specify yeah and you feed the journey download at times or whatever and I've switched to using that
and this hasn't failed me since yeah I've kind of looked at that and did a combination and another
one I found on the uh you blew two forms that somebody did a modification basically so it's you
when you do the first downloads you don't you don't download the entire library of podcasts forever
and somewhere in there I've made a mistake I think if I had uh uh
wedges experience regular expressions I could take that thing and do just about whatever I wanted with it
I just use bash potter like it comes default but I'm an archivist by nature so
it works out well for me well it's just I hate to read download files I already have especially
with my slow connection do you have bash potter set and stuff into individual folders
no that was part of it I didn't like the way bash potter uh did everything by date I just wanted
because when I tend to listen to podcast uh let's say I have I haven't listened to the last
three Linux outlaws or the last half dozen HPRs I like to listen to them all at once you know
one podcast all at once rather than uh by chronological order for everything see I've just got
mindset up to where uh bash potter reads my feeds and dumps everything into one massive folder
well it's the same way I did it seemed like a few uh when I when I would download them
uh well Linux outlaws was one of them it added to the end of the extension you know
dot-og and then a whole bunch of random characters so it thought it was downloading a new podcast
every time so it just keep downloading the same ones you really have to have a look at the
bash potter it takes care of all that crap and for the popular podcast is uh you know where
there are well-known things with v-burner or whatever it takes care of all that stuff and you can
put them into a different folder as well that's that's what I do that's how I actually get them to
speed up so I put music that I don't don't want to sped up into a music folder and then I'll put
depending on how fast I want them hop up them into uh speed up to speed up three speed up four
that sort of thing well thanks that sounds like the name because uh well my problem with g-potter
and I filed the report and uh you know that they've been getting back to it but nobody's grabbed it
is my slow connection attends the time out uh before the download is finished so my
my normal uh method for getting my podcasts is when I'm not gonna be around using the bandwidth
on the computer is is launch the download and with g-potter unless you're right there uh you'll
select 10 podcasts that you need and go away for five or six hours and you'll find a three of them
with downloaded and uh seven of them have timed out and there's no automatic retrieval on that
and uh it's not really their fault be because 99% of the users of g-potter are faster connections
that don't encounter that problem now that you're mentioned in that's why I stopped using g-potter
that and the file naming scheme that's back when well I keep me that's one of the podcasts I kept
trying to do on the coffin record about making assumptions because all I went from months I looked
up that problem and there's people were talking about it online in forums and thinking yeah we
have a slow connection and we're having the problem with it dropping out and I kept thinking well
the devs must know because people are talking about it online so I didn't ever I didn't ever
file a bug report or or get get all the time per all or anything and uh soft about a year
of getting you know downloading the new versions of g-potter and expecting it to magically be fixed
for me so well maybe they don't know and finally file the bug report yeah very good plan
always file report even if it's duplicate well obviously look for the bug report first but um I
don't think people should just say hey it's only for people with slow connections and let's not
worry about how everybody's got a fast connection because now with a lot of the mobile networks
you're going to need to have a reliable slow connections which is what they are so what goes around
comes around code it properly in the first place and then you don't have to go back and code it again
well another problem every time I try to record that podcast and I would listen to it sound like
I am using my voice as a podcaster bashing Thomas Pearl because he hasn't jumped on it and fixed my
particular problem I didn't want to come off that way and it just that's how it sounded in my head
when I did it yeah that's understandable at the same time you know you could you could have that
same approach but say he listens to the show say he takes them forward say he fixes the problem
then he's in a better position to leave your software on mobile systems or android or whatever
and then right there you've met his software more accessible to people and you've
basically helped them out by fixing something that shouldn't be wrong in the first place
well my other point to be and I wish I had the time to get into it was sometimes if you
follow the bug report you may want to you know offer to get your hands dirty and go in there and fix
it yourself another one you might want to look is RSS DOR it's Python based and it has quite
advanced filters some for it 51 view had much experience with our sink at all
I have done much with it I have a basic idea of the concepts
yeah what what I could do is if you give me your spotter I can put a ssh connection into my
machine or something you could collect them on some server on the internet i.e my machine
and then our sink the director is over our sink is very reliable if if it's halfway through
downloading a show or a file it'll you know pick up again afterwards halfway through so you're
not read downloading stuff and then you just manage the thing on the whatever server and you
don't know the shows that way okay we'll have to talk about that sometime I've got your email
from the news group and stuff we'll see what we can do about that yeah definitely I think
would would actually be cool as a project to do you know they central repo like that that you
are saying stuff for slow connections and then we could point a torrent to that place and then we
could point a you know make a Debian package as well so you get it all the different ways
right that comes around back to what I was talking about making a ppa for Debianer and
Bluetooth packages and well there always do a customer costatory I've seen for Fedora so
that might be an interesting project to start is doing the podcast as a repo I'd really
love to see hpura done that way well I think I learned that the other day on IRC from the last
known god when they were talking about razor qt and follow the link and found that you just
copied the file from the from the server and dropped it in appropriate directory in
and slash edc and that's how you added a repo to to Fedora
cover 2 what was that application name rssd what dl er
r thanks I've got the link up now sorry guys that's to do some stuff with the kids here
back in the minutes I use rss dl er download torrents for automatically pulling stuff from
torrent feeds 51 50 I'm just curious how fast of a connection do you have
360k bits down with a tailwind how many shows do you actually listen to oh a trial
listen of all of hpr tilts kernel panic new world order techie geek linux outlaws almost
the door stuff linux basics android addicts linux for the rest of us pod nuts pro see all there's
two or three others as well those are the those are the main ones I can't live with that
wasn't actually laughing at your connection speed it's actually here than I thought you were
going to say but I was just laughing at your tier one joke well as tell people I am the
all over Douglas of that you know those old green acres episode whenever you had to answer the
phone you had to climb up the pole that's kind of like my internet
what am i sorry to miss you miss green acres what it is for gigger herch wireless connection for my
ISP 10 miles away oh cool so you use like point to point industrial wireless right they said all
that up and they're into it and then actually my house doesn't have line of sight to
there end because of all the trees on the place so I've actually got my own 2.4
wireless connection between my machine shed in the house well even if your connection slow
I can give you props for the coolness of your connection well it's probably one of the most
interesting ones out that definitely should be incorporated in your consider people with slow
connections show because I mean that is a perfectly valid that's a perfectly valid internet connection
my brother to my brothers actually have connections very similar to that well see the batter
satellite is one to avoid satellite because at least used to be an avid gamer and of course with
the lag on satellite it's just impossible to play online games of course I'm so far from the
center of the internet and really my pain time is no worse out here that I've seen with some of my
customers that have a cable connection in town so it's just that it's more the number of hops
rather than I think that last connection to my house so it's it's really not viable for me to
play interactive games anymore anyway personally I could never get into gaming myself
yeah I'm afraid I'm big into the games where stuff blows up good I'm a liver better
and can everybody else on the line just so everybody knows even though poke is gone to bad and
kill the connection I started recording when he quit so I just want everybody to be aware of
even those after hours as long as nobody has an injection and assuming I can save a usable file I
will sit in this alone to poke you to have him add in super and I am a lover not a fighter so
I don't know that you're probably with us I did want to ask why I was out I was over
across the driveways you don't worry about me driving in an altered state watching a movie but
why I was out this evening that I miss any really good chat calls I understand that
this the web was doing okay for a while don't know I went to bed for quite a lot of us this
the web was pretty lit this the web was probably one of the highlights the evening well I'm glad
somebody was I found at my age I just who I used to be able to drink and go woohoo and be the life
of the party it's just at some point I just want to curl up good a bed you know it's funny pretty
much as soon as I became legal drinking age the desire to get drunk just vanished for me I have no
desire for anymore I like drinking beer I like sipping on a good whiskey but that's about it
yeah since I've had so basically stopped drinking so now when I do drink I will have a bottle of
Belgian beer you know if you're going to only have one beer then it might as well be a very very
good beer one of the problems with kids is that when you drink something they want they look at
your glass and they want to drink something so you have to like find some cranberry juice it looks
like red wine or something like that now I give them a teaspoon full of it and then they don't want
to drink it then yeah that's why my parents did me they gave me a spoonful of wine that that
agent didn't really taste very good to me and of course you know later on I took off pretty good on
it but my folks didn't drink at all alcoholism runs pretty bad in my family
well I can always be huge when they see what it can do because my parents are about the only
so real social drinkers that I know that never seem to take it beyond the limit you know those
neighbors around here don't do it at all but yeah most most double stay drink they're pretty good
pretty good at it I had an uncle he would go through about two fifths of jack every two or three
days and my granddaddy made his own moonshine what I ought to do a thona's recipe but now I hope I
don't ever hit the lottery because I'm never left completely to my own devices on a phrase
that'd be about what I would have what do is start on a bottle beam after breakfast and go through
it by lunch I want to go check out hpr episode 404 I can't find that one
sorry bad joke it's that the one I'm making your own need that was one of lost in boxes
no clattery recorded me and Alan Hickner about making moonshine
oh okay I love that one that's the one where you had the ratchet in it oh yeah that was you
fan astic I love that that was me fantastic hi how are you one of my all-time favorites this is a
funny thing this one I really love about this and meeting people online where you actually
talk to people core I've seen your your nick on the IRC and just never met the connection
I'm terrible that way hi how are you yeah that sounds more like when you're doing when you're
when you're talking normally I don't I don't hear the Southern at all yeah I've been up here in
Canada for about a year and a half and I was in Maine for six months and I have lost so much of
my accent like just the the real real Southern draw to it I've still got a little bit of it but
most of it's gone well I have to tell you that guy's kind of put me off if I ever go down south
and somebody's pass around an old ceramic jug with triple X on the bottom like out of the movies
I may just have to pass up oh no that's not how we do it now we stick it in Mason jars what's
Mason jar a jar like you would use to put a like a jam jelly or like to jar your vegetables and stuff
yeah yeah yeah Mason's just a brand there's a fine tradition of making poutine in Ireland as well
so yes I've been known to yeah I have a few stories about that as well
all right well goodnight guys
night I don't see you around I don't worry I was like you've come go ahead 50
I was gonna say kin that looks like you've just come up with the topic for your next podcast
I have topic I have a big big long list of topics for no time to do and anyway there's not a lot I
could say about it really I've happened another vault it's more like um you know you find a few
guys around the country can brew ours can distill really good poutine and yeah one night we had
we had got this bottle from open the mountains in Whitlow and so we had it in the kitchen anywhere
in the living room having a chat and next thing we come back in and there's some dude they're pouring
this poutine out into you know the lid of the bottle and throwing it on the fire and it goes
you know it goes into a lovely blue flame and he had essentially just burned half of our bottle of
poutine did he walk away let's just say he wasn't invited to any more parties once I've
distilled from um potato believe it enough that guy no I believe it in Ireland so how's that
different from vodka um tastes different I guess as again I couldn't claim to be any particular
expert on this I didn't start drinking until I was 21 so um which in the states I guess is normal
but uh in our land it's a bit of a um the legal age is 18 actually in the Netherlands the legal age
for beer is 16 and then you can go into hard liquor when you're 18 uh huh yeah yeah I was gonna say
it's uh it just wasn't what's normal in fact I I'm of the opinion it's make it worse I saw that
when I was in college that the national age made the change over from where any you know most
states you could buy beer when you're 18 and hard liquor when you were 21 uh my friends who waited
till they were actually 21 and had no experience in high school uh well I know one of them he
first time he started going off drinking he almost uh did alcohol poisoning okay I got three kids
that needs feeding how good it goes it's been a pleasure so yeah yeah thanks for all the good stuff
you do for us Kim speaking of feeding I hear bacon and eggs calling my name that's two o'clock
in the morning for me so it's a bit early that's about four here
you clear you broke up boss I said are you then that last word coast are you clear out on the
eastern coast oh yeah uh I can stand on top of the house and see the ocean okay I wasn't aware
it's you it's sitting at that far out where you were uh two hours ahead of the eastern seaboard
here in the states uh no I'm just one hour plus the east coast as soon as you go from
Maine and hit that you jump an hour forward because they're on Atlantic standard times at an
eastern standard okay and you're not doing uh daylight savings time uh not right now it ended
back in uh okay that explains extra hour yes just one extra hour it's uh 48 on the east coast
348 here okay it's not quite two o'clock where I am yeah I live outside of a town called
St. John New Brunswick it's uh it's pretty little town nothing to do well that's uh
clenched since we have a little town uh about 10 miles north here called St. John
it's pretty country up here man just cold
well I'm sure it is it's probably a lot less developed than you than any place you could walk
to in the states in ways when you when you go right down uh St. John's a city of about 150,000
people and the surrounding area there and uh I live on the outskirts
in another small town called Grand Bay and uh and like everywhere else it's just small towns
yeah St. John I'm thinking about here's probably about 50 people not 150,000 uh cup you know
I don't know it's related to couple places I would like to see before I go is uh Scotland
because that's where my ancestors were from and uh New Zealand I'd like to visit all those places
I see on uh saw on Hercules and Zena the waterfalls and I'll just look like hadn't been touched
since the beginning of time I'd like to run over to Ireland that's where my folks are from
well my people are Scott Irish so I should should include that came through
I mean they were from Scotland and then spent a few generations in Ireland before they came over here
yeah back when my folks came over they uh they started out down south had a pretty big plantation
then the uh civil war hit pretty much demolished everything that they had and they were poor
went to the sharecropping and built back up from there well we're still sharecropping here that's
just the way agriculture is done you got a little garden out there well I'm a farmer stock Kansas
as well as doing IT work most of the agriculture up here is timber well you guys still got some
all man there's tons of it everywhere up here just miles and miles and miles as far as I can see
and it's all government owned well my dad like stole a story about how when he was here there was
in a tree for miles and miles forever and it's because the Indians that they just chased out
government had uh if they wanted to have grass for the buffalo and if uh lightning strike didn't burn
the prairie during the summer they would make sure it started burning for they left and went south
are all folks did some dirty things back then didn't they?
well I knew folks you know back in the day you could tell me if the prairie fires and how they just
hunkered down and you know like clarinary around the house and weighed fort to pass around them
my family carries that proud heritage of wearing those pointed white hoods
well my my aunt was in genealogy and she could show us where we had ancestors on both sides
one of mine was the one of the dissenting justices on the dred Scott decision
so looking back on your genealogy and stuff do you ever see any reports of how the people that come
before you acted and you ever notice things that you do that they did too?
oh I don't know about that um I'm probably about much pretty much like my dad and what I never met
my grandfather my dad's side but uh I hear stories about him and uh how he was stubborn and
you know like to make a point of things and I can see that in me quite a bit
yeah my whole cotton picking family stubborn mine has well been our middle name
well my grandfather he's like me didn't like not spend money even the other other people's money
he was on the county commission for years and they wanted to put air conditioning in the
county courthouse so he went into a commission meeting wearing a fur jet hull fur coat
like coonskin coat or something but full length fur coat in July just to prove that they didn't need
darn air conditioning wonder if he got warm that day I imagine he did and there's the other
old story see my great grandfather when he hopes that it out here he was you know uh what he
wanted to do was uh raise sheep and of course the sheep were hard on the prairie and these were
still last of the open range days and he and his family were living there in a dugout
in fact I can still see where it is in one of our fields or where it was and uh the story is the
story was in the paper is one these days the family was there and uh these three cowboys
rode up and uh told him how he had not to be raising sheep but he needed to get out of there
he went back in story was he went back in the sodding came back out with a peacemaker coat
ran him off like nobody in the family knows what ever came in that peacemaker coat peacemaker
coat I'd like to have it the oldest gun I have is a my great granddad's side by side 10 gauge with
uh hammer cocks yeah my dad tells him that a couple guns they got rid of when they took over
the farm they wanted well they need they need the cash and they had a couple of matched pair
uh 20 gauge double barrel shotguns they had the Damascus barrels which you wouldn't
ever want to fire and I take a 32 caliber rifle they got rid of
speaking of guns I can't have any my handguns up here
yeah the rules are different they let you keep guns though
yeah they just just this year they abolished the the long gun registry so you don't have to register
your rifles anymore you still got to take a certificate type deal and uh you got to pay license fee
to you got to pay a license fee for your hunter safety thing and then you got to pay another
license fee to be able to buy ammunition well I gathered down off straight they went plum nuts
they won't let them have anything down there anymore now fortunately right now there is a really
conservative uh government that has the majorities first time anybody's had the majority since like
the 70s I think so right now they're they're pushing through some stuff that actually sounds good
and might make for some good business practices later on but all the bleeding heart liberals
just can't stand them well I was always surprised telling these channels uh really the
politically everything seems to be pretty good 50 50 split and we get to hear ideas from all over
it's not all you know wall street protesters or pro tea party it's you know we get we get all
kinds of ideas and that's how it should be everybody thought the same there wouldn't be no point
thinking well I think not thinking there's pretty much what most politicians I see now count on
well up here with the healthcare and stuff uh my wife's a nurse so I kind of have intimate knowledge
of how this stupid healthcare system up here works and if the US goes to what they got here man we
are in for a world of hurt well that's why I hear everybody says well it's a pain for but you'll
die before you ever get it I my wife went in to the emergency room with chest pain she's a nurse
so after they did the EKG and said okay it's not your heart uh usually what they would do is they
would send you home but uh where she was a nurse they went ahead and admitted her to the emergency
room so we sat in the emergency room after that for about two hours before you even saw a doctor
and she's just riding in pain on the bed she goes and she the doctor comes in looks at her over
and gives her some Tylenol 3 and then about two hours later we see that our doctor again pain
still there there Tylenol didn't touch it and uh then that doctor goes off duty and it's about
another two hours before we see another doctor and then uh I finally talked the wife and they're
taking a shot and uh she got a shot and about an hour after that we got discharged and went home
yeah it sounds like they're doing everything they can just to do the animal amount to take
me away with hold that and the doctors don't get paid based on how many patients they see they
get paid hourly and it's a set rate so there's no incentive for them to work harder
well say what you will about blizzard much you've got to give people incentive to uh put out
that extra effort or human uh you know human nature is to just do the minimum you can and go home
well now see I'm more of an anarchist when it comes to that just down with the system let's go back
to the way it was well they haven't given us much lately to have much faith in any kind of system
every time I talk about politics my wife goes nuts then my father and all that's all he wants to
talk about is politics and since I don't agree with him he goes nuts
uh is your wife canadian and I take it then since you're in contact with her and her family and
etc up there yep she's canadian and uh my father and law is dual citizen he was born in the US
but his both of his parents are canadian he's uh he's lucky he was born on uh campabello island
which doesn't have a hospital so everybody that's born on campabello island has to go to
lubek main to have their kids born well probably wouldn't work like that anymore I hear about
since home land security got involved and everybody having to have a passport now to cross
you the north of south border uh you have towns that strowl the border where people have to go
through the INS checkports just just uh see their friends and relatives uh on the other side of the
block yeah but it's like that up here but the borders are just really really relaxed uh
actually the the one that's the pain in the butt is coming back into the US
well they're not really trouble from up there no that's why they let a uh a french murderer who
had just finished uh the way with uh chainsaw and the bloody chainsaw was in the truck they let him
run across well they catch him on this side eventually oh they're calling within a couple days
it was just one of those little things that everybody got all up in a tizzy about and that's
another thing I can't stand about being around here everybody knows everything sounds like just one
big small town that's exactly what it is and I tell you man these people are some of the biggest
gossips you ever seen in your life if I ever want anybody to know anything I tell my mother-in-law
and within three hours the entire family knows and all their friends know
mmm this sandwich is good what kind of sandwich bacon egg and tomato how you can't go wrong with that
no sorry on fresh multi-grain bread it was big yesterday morning
yeah I've always wanted to get into that I never have uh you got the bread maker and I heard that
oh no it's from a little job down at the bakery well I think it's knuckle who was suddenly
survivability podcasting here all you got me started on the idea of the uh
certain I produced grain that hold some of it back for uh my own use
what do you use it for? well I'm a weak producer so uh usually just goes to say 15
probably uh make bread all year long that'd be kind of fun I can't bake nothing to save my life though
well I was kind of intrigued by his uh home grinders I think the human powered one to be a lot
more practical than the electrical he talked about if you're uh trying to get yourself set up for
you know what happens when everything crashes oh man if everything crashes I won't be able to
watch TV no more yeah I have a bank of friend who said it's common it's inevitable we spent too
much money we don't have and oh man uh well you were supposed to tell me when the time was to buy
gold I mean collecting to do that but uh I don't keep them keep them my fingers crossed and we
can get out of it like we always have but you never know you know there's too many things going on
that we we can't we can't continue just go I think going on not buying our own stuff but you know
trade your own services back and forth and not producing anything like we do in this country
up canada is the world's number one exporter of natural resources and they export I think it's
50 something percent of that to the u.s well there's only two ways to produce new content you
can do intellectual content like we do a fart you know movies and music and and uh software or
you got to take something out of the ground either biological or mineral and turn it into something
and we're pretty good about uh doing the uh doing the art doing the intellectual property but
we're not so good anymore about uh turning our resources into money anymore well you know how
you uh you take stuff the store to get it recycled and everything well too many times it takes more
resources to recycle something than you get back out of it all right well I have discovered
what the uh the local government around here does with their uh recyclable plastics they take
them they compress them they stick them on a container ship uh in talifax which is an international
port and then they ship down through the Panama Canal over the Pacific Ocean over to China and
then China takes these big old crates ground and loads it in their furnaces and uses it to power
their uh industries well that's one thing to do with it I always thought we spend way too many
resources uh digging holes and burying stuff on your ground that uh we're gonna wind out
it run out of ground to put it in uh of course I burned my own trash I wish there was a way I could
turn that into heat there probably is if I uh put enough effort into it but I'm just thinking on
on a global scale we have all this stuff we're bearing it underground and it just seems to uh
be a waste in two ways I don't really know what you can do with the garbage
but I know burning plastic ain't good that stuff but some awful toxic stuff
yeah I'm glad they're not doing it around here two words jet stream
but it's got to be a lot more intense over there way than it is ours oh yeah their air quality is
next to nothing uh they had to stop stop half their uh industries before they could uh have the
Beijing Olympics couple years back right you gotta wonder what's going to follow their ghost cities
over there they have that they've planned and built and note and absolutely nobody's living over
there that's kind of I I I guess that they've got their own ways of dumping their own money which
is all our money down a whole two well it's just a completely different system over there
they have a completely different way of thinking than we do here
well I'm sure there's things that we could learn from them but that you know there it's
sometimes as hard to wrap your head around yeah well that sandwich is hit me in a mighty good spot
and I think it's about time for me to go run off to bed so I can sleep before I have to get
out and go to church in the morning well I think that's a pretty good idea it sounds like you and
are the only ones channel so oh for right out there listening or who will be listening when we
put this all together in the podcast uh this is 5150 and Cobra 2 and everybody else who still shows
up in the channel Delwin and Jay Newster and Ken Fallon who I know is gone and Pyteman music we
uh we uh thank him so much for the use of his uh uh the motor server today and techie geek who
is lurking in the channel I'm sorry I missed the chance to talk to you and uh it's getting about
2.30 in the morning in the Midwest and I think it's about time we uh absolutely called it a podcast
happy new year happy new year Cobra all right I'm going boss you're in this is 5150 on the side we
go on I buy you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does
are we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on different Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HPR listener by yourself if you ever
consider recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy it really is Hacker Public
Radio was founded by the digital dot pound and new phenomenon computer club HPR is funded by
the binary revolution at binref.com all binref projects are crowd sponsored by linear pages
from shared hosting to custom private clouds go to lunar pages.com for all your hosting needs
unless otherwise stasis today's show is released under a creative commons
attribution share a line lead us our license
