Episode: 364
Title: HPR0364: TiT Radio Pilot
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0364/hpr0364.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 19:01:05

---

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Oh, yeah.
That's cold.
You can notice claspsies not there.
Peter, yes.
Peter, that actually deserves to find the booby box for you.
I'm sorry.
Too late.
Bye.
That was inappropriate.
That thing, something like that on a hacker show.
He's in the booby box.
If this is a hockey game, that was high-sticking, if I were saying it.
What do you got for his claw, too?
Oh, real quick, where you go, or give you a little story.
What are we going to hear a new fedora reloading?
I've been trying to coordinate that for weeks now, and it just hasn't happened, so hopefully really, really soon.
The new release is coming up, right?
In like 10, what has it got down to 10 days or 9 days now?
Yeah, it's right around the corner.
And I'm actually pretty excited about it, but that's not what I was going to mention.
So I'm not going to don't look too long about it.
But, no, the thing I was going to mention, because I didn't really see a whole bunch of news or anything this week,
but I'm reading this really good book by Mike Gankars called the Linux and the Unix Philosophy.
And it is literally a book, not too terribly sick.
It's probably like, I don't know, say 200 pages of the most.
It's literally just about, obviously, Linux and the way that it hears to what he's calling the Unix Philosophy.
And he's got 9 or 10 different tenants that he just defines as kind of what makes Unix unique from other operating systems.
There are things that some of us have heard before, like, you know, the smallest, beautiful, or make each program do one thing and do it well, you know, things like that.
But one of the things that he talked about that I found really interesting was choose portability over efficiency.
And he was saying that because if you think about all the different applications out there, like, eventually, they all have to be ported to something, right?
Because, you know, OS is come and go or architectures come and go.
So these applications have to be ported in order for your data to remain, I guess, relevant or readable.
And so if you choose portability over efficiency, you're actually doing yourself a service.
You know, you're relying on the hardware for the efficiency and your sacrifice.
You may be a little bit of efficiency, but choosing portability.
And that was really interesting to me.
And I was wondering if anyone had any more insight into, I guess, whether portability really does sacrifice efficiency that much.
Because I don't know much about the programming side of things.
But, yeah, portability is obviously really important.
And it's a thing that lets us compile software, obviously, on, you know, all of our different machines and just start running it.
So if you code it right, portability doesn't really make a huge amount of difference.
So, you know, you write the code and then you have, you just make a function, a function to show window.
And then in that function, if it is basically if it's C, you can do a separate section, a separate file.
And in that file, you can then have, all right, well, this is the Mac one, this is the Windows one, this is the Linux one.
And you just, like, copy the right one in as long as you keep the function names the same.
It's not, I mean, it's a bit more work, but if you think about it, it's not actually a huge amount more work.
Right, especially on the assumption of programming language is still there.
If you couldn't envision a basic kind of scrooge on a converter 20 other language, but, you know,
you're basically hooked into the API sense with dot net as it is now, hooked into all the API sense stuff.
But if you, as I said, if you're writing in the SASC, you can have different files for each bit.
And you can have a function in one of the files called load window.
And in that, you have different bits for whichever one you're on.
So it really shouldn't be too much more effort if you're a good programmer.
Right.
Well, that's part of what it's the book of saying, too, is that if you don't try to go out and write the great American program, you know, like the cliché, the great American novel,
you don't go out and try to do this great, big program that's, like, this monolithic thing that will do everything.
Then you're doing yourself a service because you're not taxing your own programming skills.
If you write small programs that can be then, of course, like in Linux and Unix, change it together to do a larger task,
you're increasing the chances of writing actually a good program in the first place.
It's a really good book.
I highly recommend it to anyone who's as obsessed about Linux as I am, or as probably most of us are.
Would you say the name of it again was called to?
It's called Linux and the Unix philosophy.
So it's, he analyzed a little bit about like traditional Unix and kind of shows how Linux exemplifies a lot of it.
Because if you think about it, Linux is quite different from Unix and in terms of like, and so the progressive idea they came out with, you know, like the fact that it's being contributed to by, you know, millions of people and stuff like that.
So there's that important difference.
But a lot of those foundations were kind of established when Unix was first begun.
Simple things like storing data in plain text, you know, smart things like that.
That get carried over.
Well, it's like the file system too, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, the entire file system and how it uses, you know, everything is a file, right?
And it's really, really significant.
And it's a really good book for me too, because like I said, most of my experience was just with one platform.
And it's really kind of delving into other platforms like Windows and OpenVMS and things like that.
And kind of telling what their methodology was and why it wasn't necessarily smart.
Oh, we know Windows wasn't smart.
But we know that it wasn't smart, but we don't necessarily know why unless we look into it.
You know, at least I don't, because I, you know, and I think other people probably don't too.
I mean, they just know that Microsoft is bad, you know, and that's all they know.
They couldn't pinpoint why exactly the OS itself is bad.
Oh, and it talks about the Atari 2600 as well.
And why they kind of screwed up into some places.
It's a fascinating book.
Well, they said a lot when Windows was the whole thing left in it, right?
I imagine so.
Yeah.
I mean, just the size and scope of it and the lack of going back over and really, really fixing everything.
But the three systems of man and the first system is kind of your first attempt.
Your second system is the attempt that you, that kind of grew out of the first attempt.
And it's really, really good.
And it's really, really great.
And it's kind of, everyone thinks it's going to be around forever.
But everyone kind of, you know, it's getting kind of cumbersome and everything.
And then the third system is this sort of ideal thing that you sort of reinvent something out of.
So they talk a lot about like learning from past mistakes and making sure that you do fix them.
And you're not holding onto things just because of, you know, brand loyalty.
Or, well, we invented this, so we're not going to ever leave it behind, you know, things like that.
Sounds like a good book.
Yeah, it's incredibly thought-provoking if you sit in front of the computer all day, like probably most of us, too.
Or if you think about them all day, you know, this book is really, really interesting.
Does they speak to, like, to revolve or anyone like that when they wrote this book or if it just somebody's ideas on it?
Yes, it's more of just, like, really, really, this guy really astounding upon the, a little bit of the history.
But mostly just like the way things are done, like, this is the really smart things that Unix and by default Linux have kind of developed over the years.
What's the title of the book again for the show notes?
It's called Linux and the Unix philosophy.
And it's by Mike Gankars, G-A-N-C-A-R-Z, that's Mike Gankars.
All righty, yeah, I'll try to find something for the show notes and put a link to it.
Just, um, I'll put a link to my Amazon seller's account, now I'm kidding.
If you have one, go ahead.
No, I do not, and I would not.
But, um, it's definitely a good book, so people should check it out.
And it's a pretty easy read.
All right, sweet. Any more questions?
All right, let's bring Peter 64 back.
If he can control his mouse.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, that was a fun call for apologize to have listened.
Originally, I was going to thought we could get into a discussion about where Linux is in regard to video editing.
But because we might be a little bit short of time, and also because I'd like to know as probably as much as anybody,
I'm about to purchase a new laptop, and I thought, okay, I want to get one that's going to run with Linux with no problems.
And typically, of course, we all know that you can have a little bit of trouble with wireless cards.
And I'm not really sure on the Intel video display, so you know, video process, et cetera.
So I started having a look around with a couple of sites that you can get some information.
Now, everyone may know that the tax mobile is one tax mobile without need.org,
which is a compatibility list of mobile hardware components, et cetera, that might be worth looking at.
And another one I came across is hardware for Linux.
And the thing about this is that you can download a thing called a collector,
and it goes through and collects hardware information by the look of it.
So you can actually contribute to this site, and then they sort of rate stuff as five works out of the box without a problem,
then three works with slight modification.
Zero is, don't know, or not supported by the hardware, and you go down to a minus five, which does not work.
And I know there's a lot of people new coming out of the Linux, and they may not know where to go to find this sort of information,
especially if they're decided.
I think people who run Linux at typically get other people who want to build their own machine,
and I was just wondering if anyone else knows good sites where you can sort of get that compatibility reports.
No, I don't know of any of any big things.
Which one did you mention already, Peter?
The tax mobile seems to be a pretty comprehensive site for that sort of information,
and another one I found was hardware for Linux.
That's the one I think I was thinking of hardware for Linux.
Now, admittedly, sorry.
I was just going to say aren't a lot of those kind of, they're not super, super cutting edge,
because it's all dependent on someone having gone out, finding that piece of hardware and tested it themselves.
Yeah, that's right.
And another site I did find previously, and I can't find it this time,
you could actually look up your model of laptop, and laptops are typically where there's problems from what I understand.
A lot of proprietary stuff in laptops or something, but there was a site I found where you could actually go
and put your model of laptop, and someone has written a how-to that actually went through all my step-by-step
of how they got a certain distribution to run and what they had to do, what didn't work.
Maybe they couldn't have got the camera built into the laptop work, maybe they had trouble with sound.
And unfortunately, if I can find that, it wants to be, you might put that in the show notes,
because I thought that was a pretty handy site as well.
Yeah, I think I saw such a state way back in the day.
I don't remember what it was either.
Intelligence is just posted there, you get a Linux-laptop.net.
That was probably what it was.
Yeah, so there you go, so that's probably another good site that I have a read later on this afternoon.
But I mean, there's a world of information out there.
It can be just a little hard to track the other times.
And it can be, yeah, a little labor well for me, even for people who have a little bit of a clue.
So if you were just coming to Linux, you're probably not going to realize.
And the other thing, a lot of people don't realize is that it's not the manufacturer of the actual, say, Wi-Fi card or what have you.
It's actual chipset that is more important than the manufacturer.
That's what you really need to look at.
I bought one from my wife's computer the other day at PCIe MCLA Wi-Fi card that was, I think it was a net gear.
Only to find out that they, one that is an identical model, but there was a revision one and two.
I think one came, had the marble chipset in it.
The other one had the broad top.
And that's how you can get caught out if you really don't do your homework.
Yeah, I was going to say the same thing.
It's kind of hard to know.
It's kind of hard to look at the chipset, you know, until you get it sometimes.
Because obviously you're not going to be able to, you can't go into the store and find out the chipset.
It doesn't say it on the box.
You're going to give you a brilliant number, doesn't it?
I think so.
It can be hard.
Yeah, it would be from the serial number, if I'm correct.
It's an FDC, FIDC number or something.
I can't remember what it's called.
But yeah, it's not an easy task.
I mean, if you can take in a live CD, pop it in and just do a list, PCIe and have a look.
Find out what chipset's in the left top.
I think you're going to be in a better position than you were when you were just trying to guess.
And admittedly, this stuff isn't as pretty cool as it used to be because from what I've been reading in the last few days,
very little stuff is not recognized or works under Linux at the moment.
Yeah, in the experience I've had so far, I haven't had so much trouble with, you know,
with much.
I mean, you've got the graphic card question, whether it's Nvidia or ATI or Intel.
You've got a question about the wireless card.
There's still a couple out there that are tough.
Everything else is going to work.
The only question is on laptops, if they have those extra multimedia keys or things like that,
whether or not.
And CAD right away.
And card readers.
Card readers I've had really good luck with on myself.
Usually it seems to be like a generic internal USB port or something.
It just kind of works.
Oh, that's good to know.
Yeah, and the other thing I have found is some people shouldn't have a bit of trouble with sound to some degree on laptop.
Oh, that's a good point.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Now, if I ever wanted to, and I think Ad said this in his hack-a-public radio,
one way to solve that is if you want to make phone calls with Skype or GUSMO,
it's actually to go to buy USB headset.
And it seems to fix a hell of a lot of the problems for people with that.
That was a really good tip.
Yeah, that was a really good point.
I'd never thought about it before.
No, it's funny.
All of a sudden I could start using my laptop and everything for Skype,
whereas before when people tried to Skype, you had to come up and start my desktop.
Now it was just whacked in your USB headset and all of a sudden all the sound problems disappeared.
Not so much sound as in outgoing sound, but sound as in getting a mic to work
on a laptop seems to be a big problem.
Well, I'm a trickle-ease with the built-in mics.
There's no problem, are they?
No, on my daughter's, no, it's brilliant.
With Skype, she can talk to grandma with that video camera going without a problem.
But the two laptops I've had, which is a compact armata and whatever the other one was,
I haven't been able to use the microphones and all of a sudden a USB headphone, no problems.
I have to drive mine, I know it was L.
D-800 Air was a headset and microphone.
And I have to try Skype with that.
Yeah, very interesting.
Hey, Lindsay just posted a link that's really, really good in the IRC.
It's kmu2.jp.
I guess we can put this in the show notes.
You just run an L.S. PCI-in on your machine, paste the results in this little box,
and it will tell you what module it needs to use.
That's pretty cool.
It looks really handy.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah, they have a lot of machines listed that people have already submitted to.
Well, see, then you run into the trouble like I'm having with my laptop,
trying to connect my Sansa portable media player to, and I can't,
because of running.
John, see, I can't get it to work.
Okay, so John, see, you can get a dose-nuff writing system.
Now, I didn't say that.
I didn't say me to the beanplay.
You're not going to get, you're not going to get sent away for that.
If you're sort of living about open system, I don't have any trouble mounting that.
A lot of people are playing for or can I am using.
Oh, this is, you know.
I've heard a lot of people complaining about KDE for not actually mounting stuff when you're putting it in.
It just pops up that little box, and then you have to go there and click it.
I don't have any trouble with a USB stick.
It's just what I try to put this Sansa in.
It won't read it, it just won't even, it keeps trying to connect to it.
And I tried it, I went on, and I looked around, and I tried to get the,
you know, I think it was on a flash dot or something.
I found, I suppose it's fixed, but that didn't work either.
You have to, you know, lost the boxes.
This doesn't work so well.
And yet April behind 13, this is where it's falling.
A. Peter, before we move on to the next person, I was just looking at the System76 website.
And looking at the video chips that they put in there, and it's an Intel X4500 HD.
And those are running.
Yeah.
Yeah, I got it.
That's what I have in mind there.
It works pretty well.
Yeah, I've been looking at the Dell with the 3100, isn't it?
So, for money, the Dell doesn't seem like such a bad machine.
Well, they didn't rust.
The techie geek there just get a System76.
Yeah, he did.
I heard him say he's very happy with it.
And the problem for me, of course, is the beginning of the year.
Yeah, they wouldn't ship it.
No, I think that's too much money.
Yeah.
Well, I think the Dell over there was about $360.
And over here, it's going to cost me about $850.
Wow.
It would be cheaper for me to get on a bloody plane and fly over there.
Well, maybe not.
Well, you can send me a ticket and I'll come down and deliver it.
Yeah.
That's what I was thinking.
Yeah.
Well, that would probably cost 150 bucks to send it to you.
Yeah, just put it in a three.
Actually, what we're talking about this, I actually went on the Dell Australia website
and I tried to get an Ubuntu one and there's nothing listed.
So I rang him up and I said to the lady who was an Indian lady
and I'm not sure where she was located.
And I said, hi, I'm interested in buying one of the laptops
but I want a Ubuntu on it.
She asked me what Ubuntu was.
I said, it's Linux and she said Linux.
I'll get you a sales person and I thought, well, that's who I thought I was talking to.
And then she came back and said that Linux is installed on laptops in Australia.
There you go.
I thought it was.
I thought it'd come to Australia but obviously it hasn't.
So it looks like I'm getting a Windows machine.
Windows Vista machine.
Did you already order it?
Probably going to order it on Monday.
I was going to say if you want to put some money in that PayPal account,
I can just order it and send it to you.
Send it over to me.
The only problem is plug-ins would be different.
You would have to get a second.
Yeah, power supply.
Yeah.
Which is...
Yeah, now...
I thought...
I thought most of the laptops and stuff nowadays,
though, handle pretty much all the voltage.
Yeah, but they're like...
Yeah, you can just go to the plug.
It's about a hundred bucks.
Yeah, yeah.
I might have one handy, actually, but...
No, I know things like in the European Union,
they brought a mandate ten years ago to a wall back
that basically every single thing that is sold that's electrical
needs to be able to handle anything within the European Union.
One hundred...
One hundred...
Kind of.
Well, the UK is no longer 240,
but about 220, I believe, is part of this ruling.
So it's like they just dropped a fraction,
which no one really notices.
But yeah, it basically handles pretty much every voltage
that there is out there.
One thousand two-foot.
I think it's one hundred two-thirty.
It's the actual technical blurb.
Hang on.
He's...
Well, on any...
On any of them devices, you're allowed ten percent.
They like to company about ten percent.
So if you're up to 20,
there are about 22 volts either way.
Yeah.
But I mean, hang on.
So if I read this, it says,
my Canon battery charger, for example,
100 volts, 240 volts,
50 to 60 hertz,
0.085 amps,
brackets 100 volts,
0.05 amps, 240 volts,
and then it outputs a very strict amount.
So it should be also the same.
So it's one good thing for you, Dad.
Peter, this will system 76,
and one do you enough?
I actually didn't look at it.
But I mean, by the...
I could get one off eBay,
sent to me.
The only thing I saw was with Dell,
you've got the warranty.
Like, if I have a problem with Dell,
I can just send it back, you know,
to them, no problem.
If I was to buy one off eBay,
then if the thing patched in 12 months,
time I might have trouble,
you know, getting the warranty on it.
Well, I got my son one for college,
and I got him one of them,
XPS machine.
It's a powerhouse.
I mean, it was here,
it was like, I think last year,
a little over a year ago, I bought it.
And we got it for like $9.95,
but I mean, it has a separate graphics card in it.
I mean, it's just fantastic.
Yeah, there's a lot of nice laptops out there.
It depends how much you want to spend.
I mean, if I actually needed one for a job,
you wouldn't mind spending the extra money,
but finally, you really use the laptop to talk to you,
like, let's say,
and there's a myth front-end kind of case in the bedroom.
Well, I just got a paper,
yesterday and now,
they have, right now,
they have the neat tent for $2.99.
Where's that gun?
Wind blows on it, but...
Yeah, I looked at the 10-HEEE PC,
and that was $799.
Yeah, this is $299.
Yeah, well, that shows you the difference in our price, doesn't it?
Oh, yeah.
Admittedly, I can get one of them,
I feel about $5.99.
Well, that's what I was actually going to tell you, Peter.
I recently bought a camera on eBay,
and the company that I bought it from sent me a notice after,
and they offer warranties with things purchased,
not only on eBay,
but you could go to a store by something,
and then get a warranty through this company,
and then we'll cover up to the value of what you pay for the item.
Yeah, I mean,
it's actually not that bad price.
Yeah, I mean, it's all pretty good when you look at it.
Like, a lot of them say that you get the manufacturers warranty too,
but I just for simplicity,
so I think I'll just get the Dell on this one.
Yeah.
Well, it's probably going to cost me a little more,
but it's any money.
Well, I got the extended three-year warranty on my son,
and it was, I mean, if it was $100,
it was a lot, three extra years.
330, do you want to go next?
Sure I can.
Well, in the aftermath of FAB from Linux outlaws,
and crunching and everything else,
I've decided to make my own Linux distribution,
and by distribution, I mean, I'm doing a remaster of Ubuntu,
because I know nothing about making distributions,
and I don't think you really want to run something that I had my hands in,
but I'm doing a paranoid Ubuntu remix.
Really what it is is what paranoid Linux should be,
because they've, I don't know what they've been up to,
but to me, it looks like they've been wasting time,
but I'm going to make just the most absolutely ridiculously security-related Ubuntu install
that you could ever hope to have.
Sam basing it on the install I have on my tripling right now,
so it'll be, you'll be encouraged to install it into an encrypted LVM setup,
like they talked about on an armored penguin for Debian,
and it'll have Tor already set up through Foxy Proxy, no script,
a no script for cookies, I can't actually remember what it's called,
but it's just going to be absolutely ridiculously unnecessarily hardened,
just because I really have nothing better to do with my time.
So as soon as I get that up and running, I'll be putting it,
I'll probably be posting links to it everywhere,
but there'll definitely be a link on 330.us.
But Rumatris, this is kind of interesting.
What kind of desktop are you going to go with?
I think Genome just to make it easy for everyone.
I may do varying flavors after that.
I hope to have a FluxBox one just because FluxBox is win.
So yeah, I did it on one CD, just keep it under 700 megabytes.
Yeah, right now I'm struggling to keep it under a gig,
but I'm planning to ship it with a bunch of creative,
commenced artwork and stuff like that,
just so that all the folders and home aren't empty.
And I'll be putting in like the bookmarks thing
that already have a bunch of cool stuff in there about.
Yeah, just trying to get people to think more about where their data could be going
and who's interested in looking at it.
This all stems from, I'm reading Cory Doctoros' little brother,
and it tends to make people paranoid.
Oh, that sounds pretty cool.
We'll be looking forward to it.
So one thing that people could do right now,
just because it may take me a while to do this,
there's a website screwgal.org.
It is a Google search with everything anonymized
and all the ads and stuff scraped off of it.
So if you want to be able to search Google and them not know who's doing it,
screwgal is kind of cool.
And there's actually a little thing that you can add into Firefox
to make it your default search.
Google.com is born.
I just found out.
I should have mentioned that.
All right.
Do you have a story for us because we had it like seven more minutes?
Yeah, I've got a few.
What have we got?
Trio a very quick Microsoft related story,
which I just found funny generally.
The UK government has finally shown a fraction of its evidence
by actually grouping all their mocus of licenses into one big bulk license
before hand they did it by each department.
So they ended up, they reckon they can save 17 million or something a year.
And I'm mentioning this mainly because there was a Microsoft
did a press release about it and there was a line in it that said
it also reinforces the government's commitment to its open source action plan
by setting up a facility to reuse and share licenses across the public sector.
I think someone needs to teach you what open source means.
Talking of purchasing power, the US Air Force is apparently a persuaded
Microsoft to make a secure version of XP for it.
And there's another thing I read that said there was the latest version of Windows 7,
the RC version, still has the floor in Windows Explorer,
that it hides the extensions of known file types.
So you can make virus.text.exe and Explorer shows it as virus.text.
So that always sucks as well.
Which is, but the main story which I'm going to discuss,
I'll copy and link paste the pages in a moment.
But did anyone hear about the South African Department of Education and FOSS?
I read some blurb about it somewhere, I couldn't tell you what it was about though.
Well they basically, what they did was South Africa's got this ruling
that you've got to have, let me try and pull the page up.
They have this rule that you meant to have minimum interoperability standards.
So they're pushing sort of open office and open formats.
But their Department of Education has said there's a teacher laptop initiative
that grants teachers a monthly allowance purchase and maintain a laptop that meets minimum specifications.
And the minimum specifications are it must run Windows XP or higher.
It must have Microsoft Office and it must use Windows Live.
The specifications are all basically Microsoft, which is stupid, absolutely silly.
So it completely goes against their national strategy of actually being open
and allowing interoperability.
That just sucks really.
Anyway, go discuss it a moment if you want.
Well they could save a lot more money
by getting in a Microsoft folder together, didn't they?
Well we've kind of had that discussion before.
I mean it seems like you would think so,
but there are lots of other factors going into it all, like retraining the staff
and the people at the use of computers and all that other good stuff.
I mean I think it would be a smart move for any country to move toward free software
because that would, you know,
wean them off of the Lyons Office of Microsoft,
whether that's a domestic company to you or a foreign country to you.
I don't see any good reason to be dependent on a company like that.
All your data and your infrastructure.
But whatever.
I mean in terms of like financial stuff, bottom line,
that these companies usually worry about
or these government companies, whatever same thing.
Yeah, I don't know if it's actually cheaper for them or not.
So the one thing I don't understand is if they are afraid
about converting over it to altogether,
why wouldn't it like institute a small portion of it?
Well like Chad did with the, you know, like they didn't Virginia.
When they started out with like let's say open office.
And you know I mean of course there was lumpy spots
and they didn't traverse everybody,
but people got through it rather quickly.
Because South Africa doesn't have Chad I guess.
I mean there's got to be some people or someone
in the position, the influential position,
where they can make that transition happen.
I would imagine because it's just not a given, you know,
that people think oh we need to transition to free software.
Yeah and then of course it goes back to those facts that post it's free.
It's got to be something long with it or you know,
or there's no support or whatever.
Yeah exactly.
Or it doesn't have this one little feature so I can't use it.
All right you guys got anything else to say before Andes?
The cake is a lie.
What does that mean?
Oh it's from the video game portal.
Oh okay.
It's the number one.
You're full of shit.
3330.
Ooh, how to, did you hear that?
I'm okay, that's worth getting sent to the beanfall.
I don't know.
Going back to the beanfall, whatever it's called.
It will be this.
There he is.
Back to the box for Peter.
It was worth it.
Just tell him that he's full of shit.
All right.
Gary, you're in the booby bin.
What are you doing in the field box?
Well let me get on my forgot.
Let's get on.
There.
All right.
On our next tip radio, it'll be on May 30th.
Same potluck format, but we're also going to talk about, if you guys want to, installing and tweaking fluxbox window manager.
And the show notes will be at tipradio.info.
And if you'd like to send us some feedback, it's at feedback at tipradio.org.
And I'm going to go ahead and play the self promo, because it might be the last time we played on this show.
First and last time.
And I'm going to play a song by the noise makers.
It's called She's a Freak.
So thanks for joining me, and I'll talk to you guys later.
Good night.
Good night, monster bee.
Good night, monster bee. Happy birthday.
Oh, thank you.
Happy belated birthday.
Yeah, happy birthday, monster bee.
Thanks.
See you guys next time.
The Southeast Linux Fest is a community event for anyone who wants to learn more about Linux and free and open source software.
It is part educational conference and part social gather.
Like Linux itself, it is shared with the attendees of all skill levels to communicate tips and ideas, and to benefit all who use Linux and free and open source software.
The Linux Fest is a place to learn, to make new friends, to network with new business partners, and most importantly to have fun.
Come join us for the first annual Southeast Linux Fest on June 13, 2009 in Clemson, South Carolina.
Register today at SoutheastLinuxFest.org.
Like a marathon, I don't think she knows who I am, so I better bring it in.
I guess we'll see, man.
Sure, it's not been a bring the house down with you.
With it, this is rock, sells, spitting, and it's strictly business.
Stretter than Memphis, Noah's, make a scotty seed, put the number on the track, and we can sell it overseas.
Online, hot speed, puffing on the best grain.
You a PC, I'm a G5 technology imperative, switching up, fattin' up my narrative.
We make a little dough, then you can bet I'm sharing it, because in the clubs we don't get no love.
So I figured I'd drop this since push, we came shop.
You can bump it or not, and you can shake it or not.
But you can't question whether it's hot, because I pick it like a nose,
whether not to drop the flows, turn my head to the side, and then I forget like a hose.
A spitter rhyme, and it's daily every time, within it, just do the eardrum and exit after spine, you know.
He's a freak like me, I sit on front, pick up the microphone and run it like a marathoner.
Don't think she knows who I am, so what's better bring it in, I guess we'll see man.
He's a freak like me, I sit on front, pick up the microphone and run it like a marathoner.
Don't think she knows who I am, so what's better bring it in, I guess we'll see man.
I've got style and daily when I talk, you see rocks, they swear to the chalk.
I'm money and a bottle of the sunny, on a hot summer day, coming swing my way, short age.
You might have seen me, cause I'm feel like it.
I might have caught you, I'll be guppy, cause I talk that way.
I'ma catch you, boy, mommy, but I was like a sin today.
I can jump off the bench and knock your bitch, it's the first grade.
Deliver like FedEx, the UBS.
Straight A's, when I'm put to the test.
This is real not fake, like hustle and flow.
I'm not an actor, but I'm someone else broke.
I'm not delusional.
I only wish to be me, and I will make you in the process to get me chased up with them rights and y'all.
Take a little bit of breath from y'all to spin's full, put a little bit of death in y'all.
He's a freak like me, I sit on pump, pick up the microphone and run it like a marathoner.
Don't think she knows who I am, so what's better bring it in, I guess we'll see man.
He's a freak like me, I sit on pump, pick up the microphone and run it like a marathoner.
Don't think she knows who I am, so what's better bring it in, I guess we'll see man.
Don't run it, ain't gunna bust in my rabbit, every one of them kicking the flavor that you still have in even done it.
I'ma ride it soon, make it simple, maybe shake your ass and put a quarter in the juice box and let's go blast.
You look me in my eyes, you notice I'm the hardest dude in this rap game, well I be staring at your thighs.
So let me see just what you're working with girl, I'ma put it on the dance floor and rock my world.
You were tuned in the Memphis, don't forget this.
So get it crumb-bunk, we the top of the A-list.
I'm close to all of them like a phone knife, the chicken pox is spitting up in them,
Tip it you in the pine box, this girl named Raff, I know from way back.
I know I hope, once you cast, they got an horrendous rap, but this is rock, so they can't age,
Julia sees her, they shake, please, and so made, fresher than co-gating.
She's a freak like me, I sit on pump, pick up the microphone and run it like a marathoner.
Don't think she knows who I am, so I better bring it in, I guess we'll see, man.
She's a freak like me, I sit on pump, pick up the microphone and run it like a marathoner.
Don't think she knows who I am, so I better bring it in, I guess we'll see, man.
She's a freak like me, I sit on pump, pick up the microphone and run it like a marathoner.
Don't think she knows who I am, so I better bring it in, I guess we'll see, man.
She's a freak like me, I sit on pump, pick up the microphone and run it like a marathoner.
Don't think she knows who I am, so I better bring it in, I guess we'll see, man.
Thank you for listening to Haftler Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over to C-A-R-O dot-E-T for all of us needs.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
