Episode: 888
Title: HPR0888: EMACS Help Sources
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0888/hpr0888.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 04:06:46

---

Let's get to the end.
Good day, Hacker Public Radio. This is JWP. And I wanted to supplement a little bit
on Clot 2's EMAX podcast. Clot 2's been using EMAX a lot longer than I have. I just started
them in my first month, really, of using EMAX. And I come from a nano-brack ground. And
I was very interested about EMAX because of the plug-ins and the different things you could
do. But I found that I needed a few cheat pages and PDF file and I downloaded Richard
Stalman's manual about that. And I started looking in. I mean, you can almost make a profession
of just doing EMAX. I find it quite interesting. I definitely, definitely recommend having
both the X version of EMAX and the console-based EMAX also, basically because the EMAX
window has all of the shortcuts built in. So if you forget something and you can't find
something, it's really nice to have. I built a web page, JWP1.we, man, that's W-E-E,
man, slash, EMAX.html. And it has a list of links in it as well as short history and also
a link to Richard Stalman's book that interestingly isn't on Richard Stalman's site. So please use
that for your EMAX to help helpful information. There's also a video there. I link to a video there
that sort of walks you through and supports some of the things that Klaatu talked about. All right,
if you have any comments or questions, please email me at JWP5 at hotmail.com. Thank you very much. Bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday on day through Friday. Today's show, like all our
shows, was contributed by an HPR listener by yourself. If you ever consider recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the
Digital.Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club. HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com,
all binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages. From shared hosting to custom private
clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is
released under a creative commons, attribution, share a like, read those own license.
