Episode: 207
Title: HPR0207: Vulgar Esperantist Part 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0207/hpr0207.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 13:52:17

---

Music
Hello, welcome to the Volga Esperantist. This is a podcast where we will learn every day
of Esperanto together. The title of this podcast, the Volga Esperantist, is referring to
the word vulgar in the traditional sense in which vulgar means the common people's language,
the language of the commoners, the original meaning of vulgar. And that is all to say that we're
not concerned in this podcast with low-level grammatical issues or debates of semantics. We're
just interested in learning Esperanto, so if you just want to learn Esperanto so that you can use it across
national and cultural and linguistic barriers, this is a podcast for you. Not a linguist, I don't pretend to be, I'm not a grammar
snob, I'm just interested in Esperanto. Minomo is the setko Kashmi Estos via in Twistam. This is episode three. This is the first vocabulary lesson. We're just going to
worry about vocabulary during this lesson. Now vocabulary is an interesting thing in Esperanto because so much of the word,
so many of the words in Esperanto seem to just kind of explain themselves. If you speak whatever language you speak,
you've got your native tongue, and then you've got your language you've investigated in the past. So maybe you've taken
French in high school or Latin or Spanish or German, or maybe you speak two languages. You're going to find in Esperanto
that a lot of the words are going to resemble one of the words in the languages that you've had experience in already.
So it's an interesting study because so much of it will sound vaguely familiar to you already.
Okay, so let's just take some simple words. I think last episode we were talking about Computilo, which means computer, Computilo.
Now let's spell to the K. There aren't any C's proper in Esperanto. There is a C with an accent mark over it in Esperanto,
but in terms of computers being spelled to the C in English, spelled to the K in Esperanto. And you're going to find that in a lot of the different words
where you would maybe in your mind imagine a C in Esperanto. It's a K. Same thing with X. There is no X in Esperanto as such.
It's going to be just a combination of K and S. For instance, in the word for Linux, Luxo. That's LINU KSO.
Amuza. Amuza. Amuza is fun, entertaining. AMUZA. Amuza. In Esperanto you already know that anything ending in an A is an adjective.
So Amuza is an adjective. And if you listen to it, AMUza. Amuza. It's pretty obvious to see that it would mean fun, wouldn't it? It would mean amusing or entertaining.
Computello estasse amuza. That would mean computers are fun. Computello. So the J at the end of Computello makes it plural. Estasse. That's the present tense of IS or R. Amuza.
Fun. Computello estasse amuza. That's a Computello computer. LINU KSO. LINU KSO. Amuza. Fun. There's a three words right there. So we could even say LINU KSO estasse amuza. LINU KSO is fun.
Okay. Let's talk about some more words. La as we learned last time is V. It's a definite article. So if we're going to talk about a certain thing, V computer, la computello.
And then we could use some, let's use some pronouns here. Well, there is me for I. Okay, MI. That is I. Mia would be my.
So if we say la computello estasse amuza. The computer is mine. La computello estasse amuza.
Planedo is planet. Blua is blue. Trey is very. And that's an easy one because if you think about French course très TRES is very.
Well, in Esperanto TRE is very. So let's say la planedo estasse très blua. The planet is very blue. La planedo estasse très blua.
Okay, let's take some more. So if we've got MI is I. And estasse is Am. Let's go with Che. That is C with a little accent mark over E. Che. That means AT or WITH.
Le boro. What do you think that means? Le boro. Yes, of course it means work. Mi estasse très le boro. I am at work.
Mi estasse très dometto. I am at home. Mi estasse très le boro. I am at work. Mi estasse très dometto. I am at home.
Amico is a good word to know. Amico AMIKO. You can probably guess what that means as well if you think about Spanish. Amigo friend. Amico friend. Amikino is a female friend.
So if you want to specifically say that she's your friend Amikino would be the female version of friend. It's not necessary to say that, but it's an option that you have.
The ending I.N. would me. It's a little bit like a puzzle as pronto is. You put different parts of words together to make new words. Just like we did yesterday last episode. Malgranda was not granda. Granda being big. Malgranda was small.
That's kind of a sense of putting words together or putting pieces of words together to make new words. Amikino is the combination of Amik and I.N. and the O ending for your normal noun. Amikino is a female friend.
And you're going to come across that a lot. And as we do more Esperanto, we'll get a better feel for how to construct new words, how to put them together to make more complex words.
Moving right along, we've got Interreto is Internet. That is Interreto. I.N.T.E.R.R.R.I.T.O. Interreto. Internet. Compotillo. Computer. Echrono. Screen.
Linuxo. Linux. Maestrum system. Operating system. Maestrum system. M-A-S-T-R-U-M-S-I-S-T-E-M-O. Obviously, it's just the combination of Maestrum and system to mean operating system.
So, if it would be mi amus la Linuxo Maestrum system. I love the Linux operating system.
Muso. Mouse. Clavaro. Keyboard. Here's a cool one. El Chutee is to upload.
So let's say we're going to upload something.
Mi ashootas dociero, dociero, I am uploading files.
Mi ashootas dociero, dociero is a file, dociero would be files plural.
As you're probably catching on, the AS ending on a verb is the present tense.
So anytime you see you hear a word, like programme is one that we learned last week.
Programme is two program.
Programme us would be programming.
I am programming.
Meet programme us.
I am programming.
Okay, so let's review a couple of the things that we've already been over.
So we've got amuta is a good verb, it's fun.
So just going off of what we just learned, if we tried amuta with an i at the end, it
would be two entertain and then if we said amuta's entertaining.
So we could even say compituloa estas amusa or actually we would just say compituloa amusa.
Computers are amusing, present tense amusing, amusa.
Mi is i, la compituloa estas mía, the computer is mine, mía, mine.
Enredo planet, blua, blu, tre, very, Che is at.
So I am at the computer where I am with the computer, mía estas, I am Che at or with,
we could even say mía compituloa, I am at my computer, mía estas, Che, mía compituloa.
I am at my computer, so easy it is, you just construct sentences, just kind of off the
top of your head, it's a really great language, you're going to love this.
So Che, that's the C little accent mark over it, is at or with, beside sort of together
being with something.
But laboro is work, dometo you could use as house, dometo is actually a small house,
since I within a small house I chose it, you can say domego for a big house, different
different variations on it, we'll get into that later.
But laboro is work, makes sense, dometo, home, house, makes sense as well, if you just
listen to the words in one language or another that you've probably encountered, it sounds
familiar.
Amico, friend, amiquino, a female friend, intereto, internet, compitulo, computer,
acrano, screen, linuxo, linux, master system, operating system, muso, mouse, clavaro, keyboard,
al chutee to upload, al chutee's uploading, me al chutee's dociero, I am uploading files.
So that's a pretty good little vocabulary lesson I think, I would listen to this episode
a couple of times maybe, maybe next time I will just do straight words, I'm not sure
what's best, two bonus words for today, instruisto is teacher, student is student, instruisto
teacher, student student, instruisto teacher, student student.
So as practice, why don't you take instruisto and student and come up with sentences?
So yeah, listen to the episode a couple of times, get a feel for some of the words, hopefully
their words that are useful, those are the ones that I find myself kind of mentioning
a lot when I'm doing like small talk, computer, work, home, friend, internet, you know, these
are the things linux, these are the things that I find myself talking about a lot online.
So I figured those would be good starting points because like everyone else in the world,
I assume everyone else is just like me.
But you know, I mean there are great resources online, again learnu.net is a really great
website to learn Esperanto, they have a plethora of resources for you, they have dictionary,
they have word lists, they have lessons, they just have all kinds of stuff, it's almost
overwhelming they have so much.
So check that out.
And another really good resource that I should probably mention is second life.
If you've ever played the game or the event that is second life, and that's available
for linux, it's available for mac, it's available for windows, if you've ever played that, it's
free.
You can go on to second life.
