Episode: 335
Title: HPR0335: Linux Netbooks
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0335/hpr0335.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 16:39:33

---

.
Hello and welcome to Hacker Public Radio, I'm Monster B and on today's show we're
going to be talking about Linux netbooks. We have a few reviews. I have the
TripWe PC 1000 which is the 10-inch model and I'm going to do my review from
the inside out. I'm going to go ahead and take the cover off the back and take a
look inside and while I'm doing that I'm going to go ahead and play our first
clip. Hello, I'm Lane. You may know me as a smith from the Linux Crank
Podcast. What is in that book? Why would anybody want one? Maybe we can answer
that today. We have a collection of individual reviews and hopefully we'll get
a round robin discussion going on this by the time we're through but this is
just to start off. I currently own a netbook. I didn't think I wanted one. Well it was
one of those. I thought I wanted one but I really didn't think I needed one. I
didn't think it was much more than a toy and my thoughts may have changed
somewhat on that. Now my netbook is a Selvania G netbook Macyl. Macyl, Macyl, I
don't know how to pronounce it. Anyway it's got the standard Intel M270
Adam processor and a gigabyte of RAM but unlike a lot of netbooks out there
this one has an 80 gigabyte hard drive. I have to admit that I'm not sure that
solid state hard drives are there yet. I've had too many come back flashcards
go bad and I'm just not sure I wanted to pin down on the solid state answer to
storing my data. Now the G Macyl has got 8.9 Ninch screen, 1024 by 600 and
a scale webcam on it, 2.2 pounds. Tell you put the battery in it. Never weighed it
with the battery but I know it's no longer two pounds. It comes with a bunch of
netbook remex on it. The desktop on a netbook remex look a little simple. Great
big icons and well a lot like what the original. You know the Xandros that came
on the original triple APC's. It's the one I'm trying to think of. It had a
lot of icons and not what you'd want for a desktop on a machine that's
easier than that. That type of screen is not that bad with a small touch pad on
I hate touch pads anyway but the small touch pad it's easy to get around with
those big icons and it makes it quite pleasant to use. Of course I was familiar
with a bunch of so I instantly changed the desktop off of it and after
trying to get around with the touch pad I went ahead and put the netbook
desktop back on it. It worked well. I ended up putting crunchy on it. I had no
intention of messing with it. I wanted it simple. That's why I bought it with a
bunch of on it. I did a lot of shopping and I got one with a hard drive and
came with an operating system that I didn't have to learn. I already knew. But I
ended up putting crunchy on it just because I was playing with it and stuck
crunchy on a USB stick in it. My life I worked better. The only difference I
can see is the difference in curls and maybe you know they've upgraded
something that does better for real-tech NICCA or that it has in it. I cut a
lot of corners to make it usable. Mostly is take keys off the keyboard. A lot
of the duplicate right-hand side keys like the alternate in control and the
super key. The right side ones aren't there. They're fighting for real estate on
that small keyboard and they were able to make the main typing keys bigger and
more useful that way. So I've learned to live with it. I do kind of miss the
right shift key. I'm not a touch-type or anyway so a hunting pack I get
around and it's useful. I don't make many more types of mistakes than I do on a
full-size keyboard so I can't complain. Well I can but nobody's left. The
Junior Mansell has got basically Intel parts in it. You know the the atom
processor and the audio it has the Intel audio and at that HDA Intel audio
which I have come to hate. It does not work completely correctly. I don't think
I've got the driver's right for it yet. If you're going to use it on on
Boyd you want to get a USB headset and don't even worry about the Intel audio
and it just uses a USB sound system that you put on it. It runs with
well it runs Gizmo and Skype real well. It'll do Skype with video and I've been
happy with with it once I got the USB headset. It absolutely sound like crap
trying to use the Intel card in it but Logitech USB headset sounds fine or so
I've been told and what I've heard recorded sounds fine. Overall impressions
of the Sylvania G-Netbook me so is it's a solid little computer. It's not
it don't feel cheap in any way. It's kind of like a bracket. It feels good when
you pick it up. It doesn't feel like you're going to break it and I've got
big hands used to outdoor work it. It feels like maybe one of the tools in my
shop as far as solidness. The speakers in this are absolute trash. They're
painful to listen to but it does not create a problem for me. I use for where
I would be using that book that's going to have headphones on it anyway. So that's
just just the way it goes. As far as a summary on it I like it. I found I use it
more than I thought I would. I considered it somewhat of a toy or a fad when I
got it but it turns out this is it's just a small computer. It does amazing
things for a size. My six-year-old grandson plays a super-tux card on it. It
works great for it. I did not expect the 3D capabilities in it. Acceptable
battery life. The size of a keyboard and screen. I can't play with it much
much longer than what the battery lasts anyway. I'd get a head-acre or my
fingers would cramp up. So it's useful. I find it going places that I never
thought I'd take a computer. If it was smart it wouldn't do what I needed it to
do. If it was bigger I wouldn't bother to take it. That's kind of the simple
answer to the whole thing there. It is useful. All right. Thanks, Asmuth. Really
nice review. Okay. I have the back lid off. I'm taking a look inside here and
I see. First thing I see is the memory. It has one slot. Right now there's a one
gig stick in there. I can pull that out and throw a two gig in there. It has
too many PCI express slots. One of them has the Wi-Fi card. It's a ray link and
the other one has a 32 gigabyte cell-in-state drive. There's supposed to be
another 8 gig SSD card in here but I don't see it so it must be underneath. So I
probably have to remove a lot to get to it. But doing a Google search it is
removable. It's not soldered in like some of the smaller ones. I think the
700 series are soldered in. But everything is really easy to get to and if I ever
need to replace anything or upgrade at least I know I can do it. All right well I
put this lid back on. I'll go ahead and play another clip. Okay so I've got
this is Clot 2. I've got the triple EPC 900 or 901. I'm not sure which one it is to
be honest. I ripped all the stickers off the bottom of it. I'm not really sure how
to find out whether it's the 900 or 901. But that's what I've got and I've also
got a friend who has an Acer Aspire 1. So I'm going to review those two really
quickly. The triple EPC obviously is, I mean it's the net book. I mean it's kind
of the one that started it all from what I remember. And so there's not much to be
said about it. It's small. It doesn't intimacy small keyboard. That sometimes I
think that's a problem. The keys are really small. But you know I use it all the
time and I work around it. So it's obviously not a showstopper. I could
complain about the trackpad. The buttons on the bottom of it. Just they're so
close to the edge of the actual computer. They don't seem they don't feel quite as
natural as I feel like they should feel. They just seem a little bit awkwardly
placed or something. So I don't know. I have a little bit of an issue with that but
again it's obviously not a showstopper. It depends on what what district you have
on here in terms of what you know the performance and the you know whether
everything works out of the box or not. I think to this day one of the best
distributions that I had on here in terms of just immediate setup kind of
like install it and you're off here you're up and running was Mandriva. Mandriva
worked really really well for me. Everything worked out of the box with
Mandriva. If I recall correctly I was very very impressed with it. This was the
2008 Mandriva. Haven't tried 2009. Currently I'm running Debian on it with some
testing repos enabled so that I can get KDE for a point. I think 1.3 is what
I've got on here right now. And again I'm really really impressed with it. I've
no issues with Debian or KDE. I mean Debian being Debian you have to set up a
bit more than than you would with Mandriva. Now I've heard a lot of good reports
about eBoontu or Ubuntu-EE or the Ubuntu netbook remix. You know all these
different varieties of Ubuntu. I've heard a lot of great things about that.
People say it's running really well and it's kind of again just
in typical Ubuntu fashion. No extra setup really required. So that's cool. The
triple E in terms of portability it's great. It's really really light. Really
really small. I take it everywhere. I forget that I even have it. It's got an
ethernet port, a VGA port, three USB ports, and an SD card slot. So I never
feel like I'm lacking in terms of things that I can plug into it. The camera is
typical webcam, what 1.3 megapixels, whatever. You know just kind of you know
standard webcam. The mic is fine, the speakers are a little bit soft, but most PC
speakers are. Wi-Fi card in it is I believe an aphorose card and that is that's
always worked really well for me. I haven't done anything elaborate in terms of
you know putting it into promiscuous mode and trying to sniff network traffic
or anything like that. Although I don't see why I wouldn't be able to. It's from
what I understand is this is a pre-flexible card and I do I know that 3.30
had Ether-Ape running on his quite well. So you know I think I think there's
some flexibility there. The resolution is fine. The size of the screen is fine.
9 inches for a notebook. I would imagine this plenty of room. I've never felt
that that was too small except on the rare occasion where an application
doesn't seem to resize properly. A fairly rare occurrence so far. The amount of
memory that you've got you know being something like what is it like 8GB or
16GB. I think I have a 20GB version. I keep forgetting which version I have. It's
fine. I've never felt like I was running low on hard drive space. I've been
very pleased with the amount of hard drive space that I've got and for what I do
with it. It's really quite enough and I imagine that if I were ever going to
start using it for a lot of there's KDE starting up on my tribole. If I was ever
going to use this as my traveling computer for digital photos and stuff like
that I feel like I would just be fine with a USB flash drive as spare
memory or perhaps an SD card. The Acer Aspire 1 has been similarly impressive.
The Acer Aspire is a friend of mine and I've I've only been able to use Linux
on it with the USB you know live USB stick. So I've run a couple of different
distributions on that and again it depends on which district you use in terms of
what works right out of the box and what what's not work. Great thing about the
Aspire is that it's not SSD. It's not the solid state hard drive. It's a
normal hard drive or at least they sell the version with the normal hard drive
and that's pretty nice. You get a lot of hard drive space. I know that I just
said that I've never felt like the triple E lacks for hard drive space but I
think that flexibility or that option with to have a normal hard drive in a
netbook is kind of nice and certainly my friend uses all that memory.
You know she's got digital photos on there and all kinds of documents and so
she's using quite a bit of that memory because I guess it's sort of her main
computer so it's it's really that's kind of nice. I think for someone like
that who really just literally they just they want one computer in their life
and they want it to be portable that's a good solution. I think for a lot of the
geeks netbooks are that second or third or fifth or sixth computer that you
have so it's kind of like yeah big deal it's got 16 gigabytes of memory in the
hard drive not a big deal. I can work with that for someone who doesn't have the
other computers in their life they might want the the space on their primary
computer for all their digital photos and videos and stuff like that. So again
it's got the webcam it's got the built-in mic everything seems to be
recognized by Linux pretty easily so far. I haven't had any major issues.
Wi-Fi card was recognized out of the box. The chip is the Intel atom chip and
performance on that has been honestly quite similar to the to the triple E
I've done little animations and some very lightweight blinder work on both
computers. I haven't had a problem with either. They're about as fast and as you
know I just I consider them comparable. I've not had a problem with either one of
them in terms of speed or performance. Oh the ports on the Acer Aspire 1 yeah
again pretty pretty good you know you've got your VGA you've got your USB and
your SD card expansion port so yeah again you've you've got really good
performance there. The battery on both the triple E and the Acer seem to be
again kind of comparable. If my friend and I are out both with our netbooks we
both seem to get a good I don't know three or four hour charge it seems like I
mean we really get good performance out of them. I don't know it's kind of
hard to judge because it feels like four hours but maybe you're not
actually using the computer you know straight for four hours or you're doing
different things on it. So it's hard to judge sometimes but it is it's definitely
an impressive amount of time on the on the netbook on both. Which one would I
get? You know they're both great computers. I love the triple E. I really do
it. It's a good little computer I like the size of it. I've been really pleased
with the performance. I'll stand by it for now because that's the one that I've
used the most and I can really attest to its flexibility. It's reliability and
everything like that. I've never had a problem with it. Just it's been
performing really really well. The Acer on the other hand when I have used the Acer
Spyro 1 I've been really pleased with it. Mostly I've been doing it with
Fodor at 10. I've been really pleased with its performance. I love the keyboard
on the Acer Spyro 1. It's a heftier feeling keyboard. It's a slightly larger
keys I think. The mouse buttons again the trackpad buttons are in a horrible
place on the Acer even worse than the triple E. They're on the side of the
trackpad. It's just not at all ergonomically sound so you'll be tapping a lot
on the Acer. You will not be using your mouse buttons very often. So if that's
something that you're not used to I'm certainly not used to it and that could
be an issue. But otherwise the Acer is really nice. It's a little bit of a
slimmer form factor. I should say it's longer than it is. It's wider than it is
deep. It's a really attractive computer. I like it. I like both of these 10
netbooks. I don't have a problem with either of them. I would certainly recommend
both of them. But yeah both are really good and Linux works really really well on
both of them. So check either of them out. You'll be pleased. All right. Thank you
Klaatu. All right. Back to the hardware on the 1000. Okay. The CPU is a 1.6
gigahertz atom processor model number and 270. It's threaded. Like I say it's
got one gig of RAM. The screen resolution is 1024 by 600. And for storage is
the has 40 gigs of storage. Like I said it has the 32 gig and the 8 gig
cell estate drives which is more than enough for me. The battery is a 6 cell. I
get about I would say I average about six and a half to seven hours which is
very nice. I can take it to work and I don't have to worry about taking a
charger with me. The display controller is an Intel 945G. It has an Intel high
definition sound. It has a 1.3 megapixel camera. And on the outside it has the VGA
out 3 USB ports and SD card reader. And the whole system weighs about let's see
I'll look it up here real quick. It weighs two pounds and 15 ounces. So that's not
too bad. For some reason after listening to Klaatu I want some coffee. So while I
go make a pot of coffee listen to this clip.
Good day this is Peter. Five years might know me from the Linux cranks as Peter
64. Now I know these EE PCs have been around a long time. And personally I haven't
gone out and got one because I just don't have a need for one. Certainly no good
in my job. And if I do have a travel I always just haven't checked my laptop in
the car. Now my mum and dad went out and bought what I quite a few of them for the
grandchildren. Now the grandkids range from five up and two about 14 I think. And from
I don't understand all of them really enjoy it. Now my daughter has got one. She's
seven. She spends a hell of a lot of time on it. Just mainly for doing the internet,
you know the children's sites etc. And I actually do pinch it on occasion. What I
find the thing before is just when I'm talking to the cranks on IRC if I go out
and you know like the Barbie up and I sit out there and cook the Barbie and I chat
on it while I'm outside. The other thing I've also found was originally I intended to put
a myth front end on it. I thought it wouldn't be bad little myth box just maybe just when
I go in the bedroom to lay down just lay down and watch a bit of tele or a movie or something
as I fall asleep. Now actually I didn't install the front end but what I did do I found
it just as easy just as the media drive on my myth box is shared with NFS. I just mounted
with NFS onto the EAPC and I'm able to stream the recorded video and all the movies and
stuff on the myth box without a problem even listen to music on the very rare occasion.
That's come in pretty handy for that for me rather than card the laptop in which is really bright
and can keep my wife awake at night. I just have that little screen sitting on the bedside
chest of drawers with the e-phone in and I just lay there and I watch a bit of cricket or whatever
happens to be on on telly at the time that I'm recording. The other thing that I found pretty
handy is when it is next to the bed I run hey you on my myth box as well which is the home automation
software. Pretty basic sort of stuff but I used to grab the pocket PC out of my top drawer
and SSH into that when I want to turn lights off or maybe even just move water from one tank to
the other etc. And what I found now is with that there it's a lot easier I don't have to use
the pocket PC and and party. I use it now just SSH into my myth box as well and that way I can
control well virtually everything that I that I need to do if I want to turn lights on
off outside etc. So it comes in handy for that just the boots up so fast and nice and quick
oh hold on excuse me I'm just getting a Skype call here. Hello. Hello who's this?
Hello Ms64. What are you talking to me on?
Mr. Scott. And what are you using to call me? What computer are you using?
My laptop. And your laptop is very small isn't it? Yeah. What is it? It's a E-A-E-P-C
this seven inch model. What does that mean? Well that's the size of the screen and how long
have you had it? Since last Christmas we had last year. So that would be about two months now.
And what do you like to do on your little computer? Besides call your dad on Skype.
My mom and mom did the internet. And what are you doing the internet? What sites do you like to get it?
I like to go to dumb and bump one because then you can have a little fun go to other sites in it.
Ah right. And then you can find out a few games and it's always fun to go on to
make the mix up because you can go and play on games. Yeah and you think the screen's big enough
when you play on your little PC. It's not too small. Well if it's too small I just press
SLL. Oh yeah that's right. Yeah so when you're in Firefox if you press the F11 key it makes the
screen a little bit bigger, doesn't it? What? You're very clever. And what do you think compared to
when you play on it compared to when you play on Daddy or Mommy's computer? Is the screen
do you prefer the bigger screen or you don't really care that that screen is little? Well I don't
do because I think there's a just right size for the keyboard as well. Yeah that's a good point
because when Daddy uses it because he's got fat fingers that it's just a little bit hard for Daddy
and he keeps hitting the wrong key, don't he? Jingle bells, Jingle bells, Jingle bells, Jingle bells,
rock. I'm here doing that one. You can also put stars how good it is. So I swear
you can put stars how good it is. Okay so you're using the music application on your PC
and if you like a song you can put all the stars if you don't like it that much just put one
and not there like that. That's pretty clever. And take it back and if it's not good at all
but I don't do that because I think all of them are good but I don't want to do it with
at the same time because I might change my mind. Because you're using the original Zander
operating system that we haven't changed that. And how do you find like when you want to open
something it's easy to go and find if you want to open games and that? Yeah I just go exit
what I'm going to. I want to play something so I go to the top of my computer because I'm going
to play it and they'll say games, go to games and then you'll have it. That's very easy isn't it?
Yeah. Now when you turn your computer on and you come and ask Daddy if you're
there to get on the internet you have to connect to the wireless network, don't you?
I use sometimes not all the time. Yeah and if sometimes the automatic leak connects for you
does not. Yeah. And sometimes you have to connect it yourself. Go to the thing and then
say connect. Yeah so all you do is click on the little icon down the bottom. So you're seven
years old and you have absolutely no trouble connecting it to the internet when you need to do
what? So are you listening to this boy? A seven-year-old has no trouble getting a central
operating system to connect. Because I just got to find the thing down the bottom, click on it
and then add it. Yeah that's right and it brings up the Daddy's network and you just click connect.
Okay so if you want to now go and on get on the internet you go up the top you go along to
what? Internet. Yeah. And then you have to look, you might see a scene a world, I mean
you connect around the world. Yeah but do you know that? And if you wanted to say talk to Monster
Bee on the chat, do you know which one you have to click on then? Yeah. That's good. That's
probably good that you can't just sort of medically connect to the Linux Cranks channel unless Daddy says
you can do it. Daddy has to tell everyone you're going to go in and talk. So everyone's really
nice and on day when you go in and talk to Monster Bee on ASMR. Stuff? Yeah that's right because
Skype works over the internet so you get an internet section. And I'd look across looking for an
S1. Yeah sure. So it's very very easy. Yeah. And they do know it's summer. I don't know it's summer
because that doesn't tell me. No it's just something that you don't need to know at the moment.
Okay then I'm going to go and say bye. Well there you go there's not much else for me to say then.
You got it from the horse's mouth as they say. But the only thing I've really found wrong with it
is the size of the keyboard. That's that can be a bit frustrating at times. I'm not the best
as type but I do touch type and quite frequently I find myself hitting the wrong key. And the other
thing too is with the space bar I find I have to hit it in the middle of it. If I hit it in the
end I don't get a space and I do that quite frequently actually and that can become a bit annoying
or also. Once again if I was going to type a letter or do minutes for the meetings or whatever
then I certainly wouldn't be jumping on an EPC. But for what my daughter used it for it's just
a brilliant little device. And certainly it would never be a first computer and probably not
really a second computer for me. But if I was going to go and travel say around Australia
and the amount of luggage I was going to carry was important to me. I would probably distill that
top and I would buy probably the 10 inch one I think. I really would like just a little I would
sacrifice the space in the car just to have that little bit bigger keyboard if you know what I mean.
But anyway thanks for listening and talk to you later.
All right thank you little Miss 64 and Peter 64. Great review. Okay and back to the 1000.
This is a Linux model it came with Zandros which Zandros is still on there it's on the 8 gig
storage and on the 32 gig storage I put Debian Loney on it and all the hardware works out of
the box with Linux. All the drivers for all the hardware is built right into the Linux kernel.
So that's that's pretty cool. I don't have one bad thing to say about it. It is my secondary
computer it replaced my laptop and that's all I have to say about it. I highly recommend the
trip we PC 1000 and let's play the next clip. Well we're going to talk about the little device
you have here. Yeah I have in front of me the Dell mini nine Ubuntu Edition. Now Dell has
been begun selling Linux based PCs and notebooks about two years ago maybe a half ago something
like that right and now they've got it available in the netbook and I've seen a lot of netbooks.
This is one of the better netbooks I've seen. Very good look and the Dell mini nine is just a slick
solid little package here and the most base version comes with Ubuntu again this this tie to
the the the cheapness which sets me a little bit. Sure sure you can pay another hundred dollars
for your Dell mini nine to have Windows put on it but please the Dell mini nine with Ubuntu is
their entry-level product in the netbook. The one in front of me has what they call it's like
it's Dell's version of Ubuntu Dell's tweaked a little bit. The idea being to make it more
netbook friendly and netbooks supposed to be super super simple and intuitive almost like a palm
powder or something where you just it boots up very quickly you're like 15-20 seconds and as soon
you're up you just click web work play music whatever and off you go and most netbooks do that. Sure
but what's neat about the Dell mini nine is it does run a version of Ubuntu yes so if you go
up to that top left corner and the little circle of three people whatever you want to call it
and you click on that well voila it opens you up to really everything Ubuntu can do wow
packed into this little tiny nine inch screen super compact portable ultra efficient oh long
battery life neat little machine now don't give me wrong netbooks are not PCs or laptops you
really need a full-blown PC or laptop at home but as a secondary machine is a little portable
device to take care of all kinds of neat stuff sure netbooks rock oh it's very beautiful and this
model does not disappoint in fact it has tucks race for the game in it it's a 3d game which it
runs flawlessly really I was shocked it could do 3d graphics I really was it has standard out of
the box version let me let me just really play away this is the entry Dell mini nine right now
and for the last couple weeks on our site it's not a special sale this is the this is the price
the entry price on this unit with Ubuntu Linux installed with an entire office suite oh jeez secure web
browser no worries of viruses or infections all get photo editors all kinds of tools and the ability
to go into your package manager and download any one of 25,000 free packages nice nice nice nice
right to this machine so if you want to write screbus for desktop publishing whoa you know our
never ball I don't know what you want to write really cool stuff this machine is $250
unbelievable unbelievable that's just it's $250 how can one of those netbook computer with built-in
Wi-Fi ethernet eight gigs of on lines in in line storage which is all flash based it doesn't waste
any of your battery instant boot all most I mean if you if you want to stop using it you just close
it it goes in the sleep but there's no moving parts there's no spinning hard drive there's no
spinning fans there's nothing eat of the battery so it really does go to sleep it really does
it will go to sleep for 20 40 hours and come back alive without killing your battery very very
really powerful little machine and I just love that it comes pre-installed with Ubuntu yes well
there's your way to get started with Ubuntu oh it's amazing 250 bucks oh my gosh done yeah
with 512 memory 512 which is plenty to run the the basic Ubuntu you want to add another you know
512 to it running gig that might almost be overkill I think it's like an extra 25 bucks oh geez
forgot say on the site and of course you can add Bluetooth and you can add a built-in webcam and
you know massive 64 gigs solid state hard drive not not regular hard solid state 64 digital hard drive
oh no moving parts that's unbelievable but it's sick you can make this thing do anything but
I'm telling you stick with what a netbook's meant to be very simple basic you're on the web you're
watching your youtube videos you're listening to your pandora you know you're doing your gmail your
google documents running your open office application on here it's $250 that's all you need
if you're gonna get one of these by the $250 model yeah if you ramp it up the 5600 bucks
go buy a real laptop that's true right that's true buy the base model for $250 and be happy it's
probably the best money to ever spent in your life hmm how does I can remember what is the other
thing that we bought a while ago the acer yes yes fantastic yeah fantastic product do they still
make them oh yeah absolutely there's all kinds of options whether it's just the onboard flash if
you want to actually have it a hard drive in it again if you're gonna do all that to it you may as
we'll get the you get a real notebook but the acer as far as a fantastic probably I think as a
modern version of Olympus Linux which is a little obscure oh okay but again it has all the basic
function I built in click web great to do a document very easy game it's very simplistic so
whichever meets your privacy the other one that I'm dying to get my hands on which looks really
good to me is the hp mini oh and the hp mini tan or something it's called I'm not sure they have a
version that I know has a loosely based Ubuntu variant on it but it's much slicker they think
of Ubuntu and they made it you see the Ubuntu studio before okay yes it's real dark and kind
of real kind of cool looking right they've kind of done that they made Ubuntu like really slick
kind of media player looking and they've got that bundled and it's not it's about the same
money I think I think maybe there starts at 300 to 350 but it's a little bit bigger I think it's
like ten inch screen oh okay a couple more a couple more but maybe maybe the cameras always
integrated I'm not sure but I see the hp mini is another real winter to look at so you got the
aces down the new the new models vases are just coming out now the new ePCs it's a little more
bling in them the MSI wind is a really solid unit really as well made big screen for a netbook
I mean ten inch right right amazing product I don't think I've met a netbook I don't like yet
well and they're evolving so quickly too from the one of the first ePC came out well you know
the seven inch ePC screen it was a little bit just a tiny bit too small right I definitely
want to go with a nine or ten inch screen on a netbook because what you've got there is just
what a beautiful machine oh really it's classy looking it's solid it's rugged looking
and it's ready to boot to that is so cool whoo yes yes right here your buddies out there they're
going oh I don't don't get ready for Linux if Bell saw machines Linux on it wake up yeah because
it takes them years to wake up after things are ready so if they're ready to it you're way way
behind mm-hmm outstanding yeah I like it and you know whichever netbook floats your boat go for it
but if you do get a netbook for the love of God get one running Linux oh yeah for heaven don't
waste the extra fifty hundred hundred fifty dollars to have it windows on it that'd be insane
this is going to chug yeah that'd be great well that's the whole purpose the way to get away from
windows is this is your opportunity yeah that little toe in the pond all right pretty cool that
was the gutsy geeks their link will be in the show notes if you want to go check out their other
shows and that's all the clips I have 330 was supposed to send one in but he didn't do it so
330 I told you I was going to talk bad about you if he didn't send one in this is my way of
getting you back I'm going to play this hey Tom I was listening to hacker public radio
episode 299 recently did you have a chance to listen to it no I you know I've got so many
podcasts that I catch but it's so little time to listen to all of them yeah well I think they're
up to like 304 something now but I finally listened to 299 it's one of those it's been posted by
330 one of the people on Linux cranks and is a really well sure sure hacker public radio and I have
to say it was the most painful episode that I have ever listened to all right that was pretty funny
that was that was Larry and Tom from going Linux and there's more today clip I just cut that
little piece out there that was kind of funny just trying to get 330 back but that's that's
going to wrap it up thanks for listening and I'll talk to you next time
thank you for listening to hacker public radio hpr responses by carrow.net so head on over to
okay
