Episode: 117
Title: HPR0117: Bilderberg Group and the Crimespace project
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0117/hpr0117.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 11:42:19

---

Music
Alright, this is Fox Fire with a something different, I think I did a completely different
show last time too, that's not that I've given up on the incredibly awesome, this old
hack project.
It's just that it's been about 115 degrees this week and it has some life stuff going
on, so I really haven't had a chance to work on any renovation projects.
I guess I could go out and, you know, work on the lawnmower, but actually that's going
to be for a new series I'm going to try to go to working on some machines, start with
some simple machines, you know, like lawnmowers and motors and stuff like that and eventually
get into working with cars and do some different stuff.
So, this is an interesting topic to say at least it doesn't have anything to do with
hacking at all, so if you're looking for a technical segment this isn't going to be one.
Pretty much the reason I decided to do this today was last weekend in Chantilly, Virginia.
There was a meeting of a group of people called the Builderburgers, the Builderburg Group
and you can Google right now, Chantilly, C-H-A-N-T-I-L-L-Y, Media Blackout or do something
like go to Google News and type in Builderburg, B-I-L-D-E-R-B-E-R-G, and see how many mainstream
news sources actually covered this meeting and the reason I say that's significant is because
of the guest list, it's really quite interesting, the people that attend this conference and
yet CNN, Fox News, none of these sources actually, you know, seemed to want to cover it.
Of course, I got like the director of the NSA, four minister from Turkey, four minister
from the Netherlands, C-E-O of the Spanish Telecom, the Ben Bernicke, the chairman of the
Federal Reserve, Carl Bilt, the Swedish Foreign Minister, Kenneth Clark, member of Parliament,
there's a hundred on the list here, I'm not going to read all of them, there's some pretty
good ones here, I'm just scrolling through so I don't have to read all of them, this is also a live
kind of a live show, I won't be editing this, I'm recording it on a conference call, this is a
different format for me today, because I put things off and had some side projects, let's see
the chairman and C-E-O of Washington Post, and you've got two good stuff here, there's one that's
kind of important to note, James A. Johnson, the vice chairman of Perseus LLC, he's Obama's
guy that's choosing the vice president, so one of these people is going to be choosing your future
vice president, Henry Kissinger, he's a real winner, I'm going to go down, as I know the prince of orange,
the queen of the Netherlands, Richard Pearl, kind of leaves a rise, David Rockefeller,
I mean there's just like Paul Wolfowitz, Robert Zolecki from the world bank,
and like I said there's pretty much it's a list of all really high level people, oh what's the
guys from Microsoft Craig Mundy, he's there, one of the founders of Google, he was there, and actually
Tony Blair was in town, he's not on the list, but I know he was in town that weekend, and so he
may or may not have been there, also Ed Wood Olmer, the prime minister of Israel, he was in town,
but he's not on the list as well, but I mean you can just Google the Builderbird 2008 list,
or if you want some real interesting stuff you can go to just Google the Builderbird list and go
to the wiki page, and you'll see like Bill and Melinda Gates and all sorts of really people
that have a lot of freaking money and a lot of freaking power, and people say okay well you know
why does it matter, but I mean this is really how do you get a hundred of the most influential
people in the world, foreign royalty, oh Prince William, you know he can't fart without
the second press, oh I can't talk like that on this radio show can I use to my other show,
you know he can't barely move without somebody following him around, you know a lot of these
people you know are very watched by their press, and many of them misled their local news agencies,
and which had to be contacted by people in different places to let them know that what their
representatives were doing, and I'd actually wanted to go back into a little history before I
got into the whole list of everything, but I figured if I'm going to lose you,
I'd better get like maybe get you hooked in with like the current people or maybe you'll be
interested, so I'm going to go into some history here and there's some interesting stuff that
people may or may not know, and this is all factual, you can research it for yourself and check
it out, and see what I'm talking about here, and I'm going to go back to June 18th, 1815, Napoleon
and Britain or France and Britain, you know, so their battles over, and Britain is won obviously,
but the financial markets in Europe, and the news hasn't reached Europe, you know hasn't reached
the mainstream on who won the battle, and so a representative for a certain group was able to bring
information 20 hours before the rest of the country knew, so one man he knew 20 hours beforehand,
because he had a special messenger there on the location, comes straight to him 20 hours before,
and so what he did is he put out the rumor that Napoleon had won the war,
okay, he put out the rumor at the, you know, the British stock exchange, right, that Napoleon
had won the war, well when this rumor got around, everybody sold their stocks, so the stock market
dropped by 98 percent, okay, so what he did was he already had a bunch of freaking money,
and so he bought everything that he could, you know, for literally pennies on the pound, you know,
like a 98 percent of the market, so instead of something being worth a dollar, it's worth two cents,
so he bought everything he could get his hands on for next to nothing, so in 20 hours,
less than a day, this happened, okay, so 20 hours later, everybody found out, oh wait, he was wrong,
and they started buying up the stock again, well that you just, you know, just increased his revenues,
because he owned everything, and they were paying, you know, 98 percent more to buy the crap back,
if they wanted to buy it back, if that's how they did it, you know, but otherwise he had,
you know, everything, and they had to buy it back from him if they wanted it back, and they had to pay,
you know, full price or higher to get it back, which gave him just that much more money,
this guy's name is Nathan Rothschild, he's part of a family that's been around for a while,
and there's still Rothschild holdings and working, and they're in the whole bunch of stuff still,
and today, so, you know, he pretty much ruled Britain financially, which in Britain had defeated
France, so they pretty much ran Europe, and so he ran kind of, you know, Europe,
so then the British Empire, it started to expand, then the previous empire that was
existing in the area was the Ottoman Empire, and they'd reached their peak,
south of Austria around, you know, Bosnia, Serbia, that kind of thing, what happens with
empires is that they can only grow so large with their military and bureaucratic status before they
start to be kind of hollow, like a hollow shell, and they start to kind of collapse back in on
themselves, so the Ottoman Empire reached its boundaries, and it couldn't sustain itself anymore,
so what happens is when these empires start to crumble, and newly formed alliances start to
be drawn into the places where the former empire had been, and just establish their control
over those territories, and so
at Franz Ferdinand, he got shot in Serbia, and he was the, if he was the archduke, prince of the
Austro-Hungarian faction, I guess people will say that the group, the Black Hand,
where's the group that killed him, and people can say that, and I'm going to try to stay
away from speculation here, but people will say that, you know, it was the French and British that
were behind the Black Hand that had the guy killed, that started World War One, which
started right there at the, you know, where the Ottoman Empire was receding, so they've got all
these factions that are trying to get in, and claim all this stuff, it's about to be up for sale,
because the Ottomans are running away, and so of course, then we had World War One,
but in 1919, after this terrible war had gone on, people, the powers that
be, tried to form a League of Nations, it convinced the citizens of the world that they needed
a global governing body to prevent this from ever happening again. The League of Nations
didn't fly in 1919, but in 1921, the Council on Foreign Relations was formed in America,
with the purpose to abolish all nation-states in favor of a world government,
and this was, and if they finally got their foot in with the CFR, and went from there,
but there was two different ways of thinking, with these elites, these powers that,
you know, they run the corporations and the military and the governments of these foreign
countries, and they get together, and they talk about stuff and how they're going to get more power,
or more money. But there was two ways of thinking. One at one group, they decided that they
were just going to, the easiest way would be to just take the world by force, and completely
dominates domination through military, and the other half believe that they could do it through
a slow bureaucratic process, and so they split into the national socialist and the fabby
and socialist, and actually you can look up, you know, Tony Blair, he's a fabby and socialist,
and socialism, the fabby and socialism is still very common in Europe today, obviously,
because the national socialist failed, but they, you know, they caused a lot of destruction,
very nasty stuff. In 1934, the American industrialists that were on the national socialist side,
they approached major generals, Medley Butler, the United States Major General,
with a plot for a coup to overthrow the United States government and set up national socialism
in America in 1934. They wanted him to leave 500,000 men and take over the functions of government,
and at the same time, national socialism was taking root in Germany.
Let's see, and actually even the King of England had to step down. Edward VIII, he abdicated
because he had public support of this German leader. Go on, son!
A little interruption there. Yeah, it's kind of hard to get stuff accorded during the daytime,
sometimes around here, which is a quieter outside. So, let's see, back to where I was at.
So, the national socialism was taking root in Germany, and Edward VIII abdicated. He was
seeing shaken hands with the German national socialist leader. I think you guys might know who I'm
talking about. But the Fabian socialist were able to maintain control of US, Britain, and Russia,
so then you had this like access of national socialist and this allied force of
Fabian socialists. So, with the failure of the national socialist, once again, the same people
got together and proposed a world body to prevent war from breaking out again, just as they
done with the attempt to set up the League of Nations, and then the CFR. You know, these guys,
they make a lot of money off selling bombs and guns to different people so they can go out and
kill each other, and then they can get paid more money to go out and clean up after them, rebuild
stuff because they own the manufacturing facilities for the guns and the tanks and the bombs and
the planes. They own the mines where the materials come from. They own the companies that
build the structures and they own the companies that get the raw materials to build the structures.
They own the companies that sell the gas to run the machines to do all of this. They run the
companies that pump the oil out of the ground, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, and know if some
particular group doesn't exactly go along with their plan, they just, you know, can change that
government to however they want it to be. Like, this actually wasn't even, I didn't even plan on
talking about Muhammad Mosadek, but I think it was 1954. They, uh,
Kermit Roosevelt, um, and the CIA, uh, had the democratically elected leader of Iran,
um, I'm not sure if they had him murdered, but I know they had some of his staff member murder,
and they overthrew his, um, his government there. And I think that's had something to do
with, um, nationalizing the oil, oilfields, but that's not, uh, exactly what I wanted to talk about,
but it's an interesting side note. Um, so in 1945, the, the victors of World War II, they set up the United
Nations, um, and then the World Council began formation of the continental super states.
In the continental super states, that's your, um, like, uh, the unification of Europe. So, uh,
in 1949, um, the, the Council of Europe was formed. This was like, uh, the European free trade
agreement. And it was basically like, you know, okay, we're all here, uh, in the same part of the
world, we're going to set up this free trade agreement so we can open up the borders and, um,
you know, ship goods back and forth and stuff like that. Um, and in 1954, they got together with
the intent, actual intent of forming the, the European Union. And this, they, this group, they met
in the Bilderberg hotel. Uh, I think it was Oosterbeck Holland. Um, no, I can't spell that. And, uh,
so they, they, they got together in 1954 and then they've met until the 1980s without any
real press coverage at all. Okay, you've got your world leaders, royalty, you know, industrialist,
bankers, uh, heads of media, you know, all the big players getting together. And, um, of course,
because they own the media, that's one of the reasons that they don't cover it. Um, so up until the
80s, they hardly got any notice. And then, um, in the 90s, they started getting a little more
press coverage. That's when people like Jim Tucker, um, started, uh, researching the group.
And then Daniel Estonlin, he's written several books on the topic. And, uh, I think Jim Tucker's
been doing it for about 30 years and Daniel used to spend doing it for about 20. Um, and so that
brings me to, uh, me, I've been researching it for maybe a year in depth. And this has been my
main project that I've been working on. Um, I've attempted to had a couple of, a boarded attempts
at setting up the website. And it's really kind of difficult because it's kind of like a rabbit hole.
And the more you look into it, the more interesting stuff you find, but it's kind of hard to stay on
topic and, um, cover one particular thing. And while at the same time getting the overall,
the big picture across to, um, to people. So I, I ran this trip to domain called crimespace.org.
And with the intention of making it like a parody on my space, because at the time I was kind of
upset with my space, they'd just been bought out by Rupert Murdock. And, um, they were censoring
um, anti-news corp, um, material on people's, uh, my space pages. And I actually, I did try this experiment
where you had to, uh, you copied a block of test, uh, copied a block of, uh,
copied a block of text over and, um, and, uh, and put it on there. It was just a big rant that
somebody would come up with against them and everything. And like, sure enough, like, you know,
one of my, uh, I don't use it. So, um, the account, it actually, when I came back and looked at it,
like several months later, what I'd paced it on there was no longer there. Somebody'd come in
and removed it. Um, so it did actually happen. Um, now, like I said, I was, I wanted to make a
parody of my space, because I figured, okay, you've got these hundred people. And then,
you could show how they've got their circle of friends or whatever, you know, you add friends to their
my space page and show how, um, just build a bird member is associated with these groups and, um,
how they all interact. And then I wanted to come up with some way to make a social networking map
of these, um, people, because I mean, like Facebook or something like that, where you've got like,
all these interconnected activities that's not completely obvious to the public, but at the same time,
they're, they're moving and shaking the world and the background through their connections,
just like it works in any other society. Um, and then I, so I just, I just started arbitrarily with their,
you know, with one person at a time trying to do research on them, like I said, it was just an
exhaustive thing. It's like, uh, just so much information. I mean, like the first person I picked
had like, you know, worked for like, I don't know, 20 different corporations and he's been working with,
you know, like the airlines, um, and the water industry and he's like, uh, honorary, uh, royalty and
the Netherlands, um, you know, it just goes on and on and on. It's like, I wanted to research every
connection, every corporation, every, you know, person that he's interacted with and play out the
whole six degrees of separation for that one person and then every connection that he had
and go down the line, you know, and say, I've got a list of a hundred people that's, you know, at
least, you know, multiplies it by six hundred. And if you, you know, that's just the people themselves
and then if you go in and research the corporations that they're associated with just at the time
that they attended the conference and that doubles it to like 1200, you know, and so this just,
for one person to actually have to do this, uh, you know, in any frame of time that's, you know,
conceivable, then it, uh, it's just wasn't going to work. So pretty much the site just idled, um,
I messed with it off and on and mainly just did research and whatnot. Um, I found out a lot of
interesting stuff.
So no, as they did not just stop talking randomly, um, they had a little interruption there, like I said,
I'm not going to edit the show, I'm just going to send it off to the enigma because, uh, well, I'm late once again and I, uh,
didn't want to completely leave him hanging, so I'm going to, you know, if I have to sound dumb, then that's okay. So,
what I wanted to do was, you know, if I couldn't really copy my space, because there's a lot of CSS and flash and all that crap that I didn't feel like,
you know, messing with, because I hate all that crap people put on their side, so I really hate my space and I hate the way it looks and I really didn't want my side to look crappy like my space does.
So, um, after coming to that decision, I decided that I was going to mess around with different, uh, web layouts, you know.
No, I'm not trying to get you to go check out the site, I'm sure you already have by now and there's actually nothing there.
It's just like one page on a blog that I've, um, I've done it because I just now in the past week, um, another thing I was working on is, um,
getting my stuff moved over and I'll go into that in a minute when I finish, uh, finish this up here.
Um, so, yeah, it was just, and then I wanted to put a wiki up and the idea was I'd go on and, um, get people interested.
And get some help with this, like, uh, you know, get one person to pick one person off the list and do an extensive research project on that one person and then post it to the wiki.
Um, and then, you know, the hyperlink.
As you go on, you link back and forth in the wiki like a wikipedia, you know, so where like you've got the same person that's mentioned in this corporation and this event and this other person's bio and then it all links together and you can actually navigate through the wiki and actually see the connections between, um,
like an internal wiki, no external links at all.
So you could actually see the connections internally between just this group of people to start with.
Um, but, you know, I never really advertised that or anything or asked anybody for any help with it because it was just the interface for the wiki was awkward.
I was on dial up. I was trying to move forward with, um, some kind of like a modern sort of, uh, look with like videos and like, you know, media and stuff like that and not just flat text and, you know, make it so.
It would be interesting and, you know, kind of a catchy, but really I mainly wanted to focus focus on the information aspect.
You know, if it's not somewhat aesthetic, then people aren't going to be interested in it at all.
So, um, I just, uh, I started using, um, WordPress on there and, uh, I really, I really liked WordPress.
Um, and I had, uh, my Reddit feed on the front page there.
It was, so it wasn't really a static page. It was kind of dynamic. I did do some blog posting on some interesting research I had been doing.
And, um, and then like different stories I would find, um, about these people and stuff they were doing is I would post it through Reddit and the world news or whatever world politics, uh, world business, something like that.
And, um, and then have a feed of information, um, mainly pertaining to, uh, the actions of these builder burgers.
So, um, and they, they do a lot. I mean, like, uh, pretty much what I do is I set up a Google alert for the first maybe 15, 20 people on the list.
And, uh, corporations that they were, um, linked with. And there's just the boom. I mean, I get, I'd get 50, uh, emails a day from Google alerts with, uh, updates on different stuff that they were doing, um, or their corporations were doing more interesting stuff like that.
They're definitely not just, you know, a boring group of people that meet in a smokey room. They're actually doing interesting stuff that's, um, not necessarily very good. Either, um, I feel like the first problem that it came across was, um,
uh, ETN Devinyan. He's the honorary vice chairman of the builder burger group. He also, um, works with Suez, Jack Bell, um,
and, uh, he's in with the airlines and, uh, auto racing. And he's just like 70 something years. He's like, like 78 now or something.
And he, you know, he's picked your, you, you Google it. It's, uh, has been, you know, it's spelled E, T, I, E, N, E, D, A, B, I, G, N, O, N. And you just do a Google image search on him. He's like this kindly looking old guy with a little pipe.
And, uh, you know, he just looks like your grandpa, you know, but like, he's actually like this, um, world leader. He's, uh, like a lobbyist.
He is for Suez. And he's also like in charge of the development program for Africa. So, um, now this company Suez was mentioned in the recent independent movie called flow for the love of water.
And it's pretty much about the private privatization of municipal water facilities. So pretty much what this one company wants to do is buy up all the water rights.
And that way they can have the market cornered on your drinking water.
Um, you think it's bad with oil, um, wait till you're paying $4 a gallon of water or something like that that you have to have to survive.
And not just like buying it at the store either. I mean like actually at your house, like in South Africa, they've got this new plan where they've put prepaid water meters outside people's houses to where, um, if you want to drink water, you have to go out and put money in the machine to, um,
to be able to drink water. So that's, um, you know, kind of a messed up thing. And, uh, like there was a story, um, five million dead in the Congo.
And it was on like NPR. I, I found this story probably a year before it was ever on NPR. And I posted it around there, but I was like, oh, got it out of that. It's just a bunch of crap. And you know, and then it comes out NPR. And everybody's like, oh, my God, you know, and, um, Belgium and Devinyan, he's, you know, uh, involved with this, the slaughter in the Congo.
The whole African situation is like these Europeans come in. And, um, they want the natural resources. And so they pay the one group off to kill the other group off. And they give the one group the guns to go kill the other group doesn't have the guns. And so then they control this, you know, mercenary force.
And then after so many years, the situation gets so bad where they're just going around arbitrarily slaughtering people and, um, doing much worse things. And I don't even want to mention, um, that some other group comes in. It's like, oh, we're going to fix things by coming in and giving this other group a bunch of guns.
You know, it's just, it's just an ever ending process. And, um, so after I've done research on this one particular person, um, you know, I found out that he's not this kindly old man. He's not your grandpa. You know, he's really a bad dude that's just about the money and the power.
Well, it's just about the power because they've already got all the money. So they just want more power and more land and more resources. Um, so that's just that one person. And I'm not going to go into, uh, to any other rest of them. Um, but what I've done is I've moved my side over.
Uh, I found me and my wife got around sitting around one night and, um, we, uh, decided that we wanted to, she wanted to set up a website. And I explained to her that I can only host one web, one website on my account without upgrading on GoDaddy. And my account on GoDaddy was about to expire.
So I wanted to move somewhere else anyway, because one of the things in their terms of services, you can't have hacking related content. Uh, and that does mean security related content to apparently on hosted on your website on their service.
And one of the things I plan on doing in the future is setting up a security and hacking type of blog, um, for stories along that line, because yes, I do know how to use computer apparently.
Um, but I didn't want to get it shut down. And I didn't want to really do anything with my website if I wasn't going to be keeping it. So I just kind of hadn't left it alone, um, messing with WordPress and stuff like that and how to get it configured the way I want it to.
And actually, I pretty much stuck with the idea of not using a standard website anymore. I don't want to code any HTML anymore. I don't want to have to type in links and references and do any of that stuff.
Um, and then, you know, put it in through the, the W3C verification to make sure it's valid and all that crap, you know, you can pretty much skin a blog to look like a website and all the things valid.
HTML, you know, I can change the theme whenever I want. I can adjust the columns and the layouts and had feeds. I can link to flicker. I can embed, uh, I, I use scribe fire. So it makes it really easy to embed video.
In the site, uh, which scribe fire is really nice. It's a plugin for Firefox and pretty much you hit F8 and it pulls up this little box at the bottom of the screen. And then it's got like a text box in there.
And you just type in what you want to post to your blog down there and inform at it properly. And if you need to edit the HTML, it does have an actual like thing where you can switch over to the HTML view and, um, change things around with the HTML.
But it gives you the option to think the link to flicker and definitely it lets you embed videos from YouTube, but actually has its own separate YouTube preview.
So you can actually search YouTube from scribe fire and find the video and it'll embed it natively in the thing for you. And then you just hit submit and you've got your, uh, assuming you've got your blog information already entered into the program.
It'll, um, submit directly from the browser to your blog and you don't have to actually log into your administrator account and do anything else.
Unless you want to go back and change something later on.
So we picked a new hosting service called host monster. And I'd never heard of it before.
But I think the who is actually came back to some blue host, maybe, um, to sort of might be the same company under a different name. I'm not exactly sure.
Um, how that works. Apparently there's a big struggle with go daddy and domains by proxy. If you use domains by proxy and go daddy, they're in the same building, but they don't communicate with each other.
So they're supposed to send you separate login information for your account and all this. And apparently there's some big horror stories with switching over. But since the account was all in her name.
And she had to take care of that. So she took care of the hard part.
And so, um, with host monster, you get, um, no, I don't work for them. I'm not trying to advertise. I'm just saying they've got, uh,
like unlimited accounts, unlimited bandwidth and unlimited storage, which is perfect for another project. I'm planning on working on the future as well.
Because I think they allow you to do non-commercial streaming audio, since you've got unlimited bandwidth and unlimited storage. And you can host a legal audio and stream it or whatever. So, um, that being said, I've
written installed WordPress on, um, there. And then it failed miserably. And then I realized that they had a one-touch, um, installation, which was really freaking simple.
Um, and so that's pretty much, uh, the WordPress installation on the site.
Um, and, uh, that's pretty much it. So now that I've said all that, if anybody would like to research and, um, any of these people in post, um, your information and your findings on the blog, your welcome to sign up and, um, join the project.
And, uh, this has been another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Thank you.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over to C-A-R-O dot-N-T for all of those of you.
Thank you.
