Episode: 916
Title: HPR0916: HPR Community News for Dec 2011/Jan 2012
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0916/hpr0916.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 04:56:49

---

We will see you next time, bye.
Hello and welcome to Hacker Public Radio.
This is our monthly review show where we discuss what's happened in the past month that
you should be able to speed on in case you skipped any of the shows, and I like a state
of the podcast show.
With me today, we have 5150, Patty Fox, and Ken Fallon.
How's it going, everyone?
So we have had a pretty good month at Hacker Public Radio, it's been a good January
at a lot of contributions, a lot of new contributors, and a lot of interest, a lot of positive interest
in Hacker Public Radio, it's been really fantastic, it's been a great thing to see.
We didn't do a monthly review show in December, we got a little bit overwhelmed with planning
and stuff at that point, so we're going to cover December 1st, we're going to do that
as well.
And Ken or 5150, do you guys have anything to say, anything to add before we get started?
No, no, let's go, I might.
Okay, fair enough.
So yeah, this is a monthly look at what has been going on in the HPR community.
It's a regular show scheduled for the first Monday of every month, so the first Monday
this should be now.
First we're going to start out by welcoming our new hosts, and these are guys we really
appreciate here.
Welcome to Frank Bell to NY Bill and Windigo to Garjola, Ahuka, Akronis, Mordancy, Mr.
X, which by the way, I'm shocked that no one's used that name yet, Mr. X, it seems kind
of obvious, but good name, congratulations on that one for Brockton Bob and for DM Fry.
So thanks a lot to all you guys who jumped in and helped us out, it was really appreciated.
In addition to, you know, our returning hosts, we don't doubt that was great.
So Poki, would you like me to quickly run through the show review without getting into
too much detail?
Oh yeah, I think you're better at that than I am, I kind of doubly on that stuff, so be
careful for it.
Okay, 871 was Community News, followed by Klatu with packaging for Yom, which was almost
the last in his episodes.
We had Philip and Rebecca from CrunchBang Linux, who I interviewed at AllCamp, and we had
the Open Knowledge Foundation, one of Robert Gattling's episodes on how to release data
from, you know, take obscure data from governments and make it available in an open format that
people can download that's convenient.
We had JWP throwing in replacing older hardware show, and they close up of Klatu's
packaging episodes on BSD ports, that was, I guess, one week.
I guess we could go through them week by week, I suppose, if that helps.
Then we had a new introduction by Frank Bell, come on to the network.
We had Mr. Gadgets with his last show of the year open shorts episode four.
That's a great name for his show, well done, Mr. Gadgets.
You know that he had a zone podcast before, and he's now kind of releasing a podcast
here on HPR, so it's good to see.
And we had chock full of useful hips and tricks in that one for the holiday seasons.
I'm actually going to use that to get my nephew something interesting and dangerous for
his birthday.
Nice.
And we had Sunday morning links review and a very nice new show that's coming on here
on the network, given that's on every Sunday morning.
And we have them scheduled now on HPR in an irregular slot, more information on that
ledger.
And finally handbook for the criminally insane, I'd like to complain to this team for
not releasing faster and more often.
We're working on it.
Believe me, we are working on, I had some hardware issues and some about a 13 hour editing
job.
I had to get out of the way, but I think I'm getting back on schedule excuses, excuses
cookie.
And following day we had DWP with a little rundown on the Intel, awesome processor that was
one of the most useful episodes I've listened to in the past year that gave me some insight
in this information that I could not find anywhere else.
And I just wanted to say thanks to JWP for that one.
Short sweetened to the point I like them.
Clat 2 with his RPM format, packaging.
And then we had an interview with Dan Lynch of Dan Lynch.org, Rattle Radio Alchemist.
Yes, that was when you were searching for the Linux outlaws and, yeah, and Alchem 10 held
a lot of camp, a really, really nice guy.
If he comes across as a nice guy on the radio, it's because he's actually a nice guy in person.
So we had to have a chat with him.
Yeah, great, great guy.
Then we had Nightwise with cross-platform streaming and I really liked what he's the way
he's gone through using the Mahi server, DLNA and play music in the living room and that
sort of thing.
John and I see him in with a fantastic episode on redo backup and recovery.
You know, simple application.
Click to do the backup.
Click to do a recovery.
It couldn't be simpler.
Everybody should have a look at that.
The following day was product life cycle management by myself.
The following day was NY Bill and Windigo with basically their introductions and how they
got into Linux.
Yeah, these are also two great guys.
I met these guys last year at the Northeast Linux Fest.
You briefly, I met them both, but they were both just really cool guys to hang out with
and their introductory show was a lot of fun to listen to.
That was a great format that they chose for doing the, for doing the how I get into Linux.
I appreciated that a lot.
Nice, them just chatting off each other.
I think NY Bill went over to Linux outlaws one time, flew over especially for the show.
Yeah, it swings both ways like that.
Then we had JWP and this show EMAX help sources and I really like this because it's in response
to another episode that latitude it earlier on.
So yeah, you can always do that.
Then we had yourself coming on with a quick announcement about the New Year's Eve show.
And Mr. Jay, sorry, no, I was going to say I appreciate you putting that on and I apologize
to anyone who I might have bumped.
But that show announcement was very effective and I want to thank everyone else who responded
to it, which was a lot of people.
And yeah, I think I really think we need to take some time out here and thank everybody
who was in the queue who bumped this month.
It's basically in the apology section, but I've made a complete and not our mess of the
scheduling this month for one reason or another.
The main reason being I've never had to deal with this number of shows before.
So it's a learning experience on my part and I messed up people's wrong names, put people
in at the wrong times, forgot people who had emailed me, shows and stuff.
So apology is basically to everybody you're going to try and get things a little bit more
solid.
It's been a bit hectic here as well over the last few months, but hopefully life is returning
to be too normal again.
So in the, I think it was the November monthly review show, I had made the prediction that
it would be a good problem to have to have too many shows in the queue.
Was that right?
You are, you are right.
It's a fantastic problem to have and let's keep it up.
We still, we were talking about it before the show, but we still have 207 available slots.
So that would be a healthy two years for any podcast and we're going to be putting that
on in one.
So, so there you go, two years, sorry, that would be a healthy four years for any podcast.
So yeah, for any weekly show at your word.
Yeah, Mr. Gadgets, where's my flying car?
Very, very good question, Mr. Gadgets.
And then the next one was the HPR event, the next eight, next seven actually and then
we had the last one, which was kind of the after show, which was quite funny.
I love this.
It was brilliant, Paul Key.
Big congratulations and I know what you're going to say, but it was you who put it on.
When I sent you a female asking you to do the show, I had intended you doing just like
this type of show, but you really took the ball and ran with it.
Congratulations.
Well, I don't know.
It was a massive success.
Well, I appreciate you saying that and I am going to say what you know I'm going to
say and it's that I really had nothing to do with it other than saying that I was going
to record for 12 hours.
What happened, everything else that happened was Hacker Public Radio.
It was the people who listened to Hacker Public Radio, the people who contribute and
the people who get involved, everyone who listens and who participates is Hacker Public
Radio and is Hacker Public Radio that hold it together because I didn't build any servers
to host the show.
I didn't twist anybody's arm to show up.
I didn't even bring a topic.
I just said I was going to be recording and somewhere along the lines of 35 to 45 people
showed up throughout the day in the recording and spoke up.
We had pipe man who showed up with a server that was able to broadcast live which I think
helped tremendously.
I think that really went a long way to getting people involved.
We had guys like 5150 who is here now who recorded the after show and kept it going because
he wasn't ready to let it die yet and put out some great content there.
I mean, honest to God, all I did was show up and hit record and made the announcement
ahead of time that I was going to show up and hit record.
I thought it was going to be people floating in and out throughout the day and I thought
if we were lucky, I'd be able to get two hours of content out of it after cutting out
all the dead air and what happened was people showed up and for 13 hours for longer than
I even expected, people showed up and brought content and just showed love for the community
and it was really, to me, personally, the guy who said I was going to throw it together,
it's touching.
It's an emotional thing for me that everybody showed up and did it but it's also tremendous
pride in the community that's allowed me to be a part of it just to see that people
will step up and participate in something that was even an unknown but that people thought
was going to be fun and one thing that never got said about the whole thing that was really
funny is when it was starting out, we had hit record, everything was ready to go except
that the streaming server wasn't up and that was taken a bit of time and it was about
30 minutes or 40 minutes of just kind of waiting for that for the show to start and there
was about, gosh, maybe 12 or 15 people in the room waiting for it to start and it felt
like being stuck in a crowded elevator that wasn't moving and it was, I don't know if
anybody else felt like that but that's what it felt like and no one that I was the
guy that called everybody into the elevator, I was really panicking at that point and
but everybody stuck around and they made it a great show and I honestly, I just wanted
to say that I don't deserve nor want nor expect the credit for the show because it was
the people who showed up to do it.
I was fantastic, I thought it was funny, I was on the train, I'm away home from work and
you had sent an email out on the panic, I think Dan came in and came and everybody down
so they're well used to things that are going according to plan there and TLLTS and
the pipeline music was fantastic, I shouldn't really even be naming people but it was, I must
say it was really good timing because the new year show everybody was off, at least everybody
could call in for a period of time so it was a great way of joining the different podcast
podcasting people out there on the one roof for a particular event, I think we should definitely
make it an annual thing.
Oh yeah, and you know what's going on.
Well it was also a great, go ahead please.
Yeah, this is where we need that random key interrupt that we talked about but another aspect
of the New Year's Eve show is it got all the other podcasts talking about HPR and letting
folks know we were still around.
Yeah, that was, well two things there, what I was about to say was that it
never occurred to me until just this moment now to consider how many podcasts, you know,
people who put together their own podcasts or their RSS feeds were involved and it was
probably six other shows represented that came out to help us out with that and that's
pretty incredible.
I'm going to have to sit down and count that but the other thing I was going to say was
that was an incredible, incredibly good point that you made about needing the, you know,
the random timer because that's exactly what happens and it was, I had the exact same
thought too, you know, not exactly when you said it but you know a couple days before
while we were doing it, I had the exact same thought that when there's collisions, when
people both key up at the same time, both people kind of let off and everybody waits a random
amount of time and it is random because it's everybody picking their own thing and it's,
I had the same thought that exactly how network traffic works and I thought it was, it was
either insightful of you or I'm just being ego-tistical.
Okay.
Well, I guess just around that topic, I guess a lot of people were wondering is this something
that we should do more often and I don't know, I have my own opinions on that.
So if your, well, my opinion on it is that I think we captured a moment where it was
downtime for everybody, everybody was available and it was like a Christmas event on neutral
territory, HPR being the neutral territory and everybody could join in.
So I think it would distill us a lot if we started doing it on a regular show and, but,
you know, the mobile room is here if anybody wants to do a regular show for HPR, all they
need to do is turn up into this room and press record.
Yeah, so I agree that we did capture a moment.
It's a thing that, I don't think anybody could forcefully replicate that or duplicate
it.
It was something that came together organically and because of the people in the community
and I agree and I think doing it once a year and a year, I think we started a tradition
that we can't stop it now.
So yeah, for sure, we're going to have to do it again next year.
But as far as the live shows for HPR goes, there is a live show coming up, Monster B and
I believe Pegwool and 330 are putting together a live show that they're going to do.
I'm not entirely certain what their schedule is.
So if you're interested in becoming part of that, I would suggest getting over to the
IRC channel podcast planet, which is on the free node server, IRC.frino.net pound
podcast planet or hash podcast planet, whatever you like and ask around in there when the
show is going to be recorded and what the schedule might be.
I think I know what the schedule might be, but I don't want to speak out of turn and confuse
people.
So I'm going to keep it to myself.
What my guess is, anyway, for the time being and say that if you're interested in
being part of that, that is going to be a hacker public radio show.
It's going to be a very, as I understand it, a very loose format.
It's probably going to be not safe for work.
So if you need a place to come speak your mind or you don't have to feel like you're self-sensoring,
that seems to be what they've got going on.
And I think that they're opening it up to folks.
So they are going to do a live show.
It's basically the point of that and they didn't get a chance to come on here to announce
it today.
Everybody's got time constraints, but I thought I should mention it, and I thought that was
a good time.
Okay.
Fantastic.
Again, tell them if you want to reserve a slot for, sorry, tell them if you want to reserve
a slot for a coming out sooner rather than later so I can put it in the calendar.
Okay.
Go ahead, 51.
Well, I think we can all agree that the 13-hour marathon show could probably be restricted
to just once a year.
When Ken mentioned how it was Christmas time and everybody crossing lines and came over
and it just put me in mind of those stories about I think 1917 and Christmas in World
War I where they climbed out of the trenches both sides and shared drinks and cigarettes
around together.
And that just, that can be visions of next year that will be joined by Mac and Windows
podcasts.
I'm not sure that makes me real comfortable, but I guess the more than there here.
You're cracking me up, douche, cracking me up.
But as you know, HPR is not restricted to Linux only stuff.
It just happens to be quite a lot of the Linux people are into hacking and that sort
of thing.
Hey, I'm, I'm the guy from episode concerning, uh, uh, doscripts in, uh, in the queue.
And now the one I'm thinking of doing.
So you don't have to tell me that true enough for you.
All right.
The one thing.
I do want to say one thing before we move on and it, um, 51.50 just kind of reminded me
to say this, um, the way that I view the, uh, the New Year's Eve show that happened and
people keep thanking me for doing it and all this kind of stuff.
I just want to say that the way I feel about it is, I feel like I was a participant in
a community event and I want to thank the community for allowing me to be part of it because
it, it, it, it was, no buddies, you know, it wasn't obligatory that anybody do anything
there.
Certainly not, you know, it was not obligatory that they do anything for or with me.
So I feel like I was allowed to participate in that and I just want to say thank you
to everyone, not only for doing it, but for letting me be a part of it and, and with
that, I think I can stop talking about it.
Okay.
I would just like to say finishing off on this that as for, um, turning the network around
and making it feel like less of, um, less of like a radio show where you're tuning into
a random, uh, you know, you're tuning your radio for one random station to the next.
I think that event really brought, um, bit of humanity to the HPR community where you
had a feeling.
These are all these people sitting in their basements playing guitar listening to HPR
or they're over there doing this or, you know, they're putting the kids to bed while
they're listening to the HPR or, you know, it really gave me a feeling like, okay, there
are actual people out there listening to this show and that is exactly what, um, I tasked
you with, uh, in the, in the previous, um, previous HPR review.
Arie, moving on to the following episode 900, 900 hard to believe, um, we had, um, Car
Gillion, uh, introduced himself and I'm probably brutalizing his handler, but, uh, uh, an
introduction to HPR, the following day, another intro to HPR, these, these are all got
apologies to, uh, and, uh, and, uh, Garjallan for, um, abuttering your names, but B, they
were pushed down the queue because of all the scheduled shows after the HPR, um, Christmas
or New Year's, New Year event and it was difficult to know how to handle the releasing
of that and we'll probably, you know, make it clear next year, we'll reserve a block
of, of shows, uh, for next year, so we know what's going on. Hopefully there will be a next
year. And we had, uh, a return to the network for talk, geek to mean news and, uh, talked
more about that later on and episode 903 was the SOPA protest. I don't know if you guys
had anything to say about that. I thought it was well done and I thought you handled it,
uh, properly ended properly. And by handling it, we essentially, I, I had an email from
the TLLTS mailing list and links and textual guys who were gone black and, um, and we,
we discussed it on our own mailing list and this was the, it was called appropriate,
not to release a show at day. And for that day, we redirected HPR to a, um, no SOPA.org.
Yeah, I, I know that some websites and some podcasts simply went black and had nothing,
but I, I appreciated the fact that you explained that we, we were not participating in the internet
today and this is why I thought that was the right way to handle it. And some people may disagree,
but I, I totally thought that was way to do it. Well, I think we had to do something,
we had to actually release a show and that slot. Anyway, we didn't have the HPR intro or the outro
so as far as I was concerned, it was just, you know, what you would get, you know, this show,
this website has been hijacked and been, been shut down because there's some, um,
some information on here that, um, we don't like our, you know, you could just go through the list
of shows that we have here and you would have ample proof that what we're doing is, you know,
we're hacking and all the rest of it. The fact that our website has been blocked by,
you know, corpus, uh, firewalls, because we got the word hacker in, in our name is, is,
is sufficient already to say that we are, uh, there's censorship on the internet. I mean,
it really don't want to make it anywhere. Agreed. Okay. The following day we had, uh,
frostcasts are sorry, frostcasts, northeast Gnuffin links fest, which Jonathan asked me to pop
out here and syndicate the Thursday. It was a pleasure. And they're, uh, talking about that,
a more information on that later. And the grandest thing, uh, how I got into Linux, another
episode, uh, from a new host, a lot of new hosts can bumped up. And then, um, I bumped this show,
the following show, which was, uh, show announcing Fostem, uh, up as well, because it was, uh, it was a
time needed to get some information out and a timely fashion about Fostem, which is actually going
on this weekend, as we record now. And, uh, unfortunately, I have not been able to go because,
I put my back out again. And, uh, also my wife has started a job, so, uh, working nights,
so unfortunately, I can get down to that. Uh, the guys down there, um, well, I wasn't able to
find somebody who was, uh, able to take over the booth in time. Uh, so unfortunately, uh, I had
to email the guys to say we, uh, couldn't go and they were quite, uh, they were quite nice about
all things. So hopefully, again, next year, we'll, uh, we'll, um, be able to go to that event.
Yeah. And I just wanted to say I, I'm nowhere near Fostem. It was not going to be even physically
possible that I could get there. But I did read all the emails that went back and forth between you
and those guys. And I've got to say they, they were some of the nicest people that I've ever
read emails from. They were really, really friendly and nice in every email that they wrote. And, um,
I, I can't, you know, I can't wish more that they have a good event, uh, excuse me, events,
and, um, and I hope it's going well over there. It's having fun. I hope the guys that are,
that are putting it on, uh, you know, really reap the rewards of such a thing. Not to mention,
I hope your back is feeling better. Um, too. And, and it was, it was, um, it was nightwise,
right? It was supposed to go with you. And he had another, yeah, yeah, that was, um, I don't know if
I was to talk about it here, but that, that, uh, it was heartbreaking as well. Um, yeah, but unfortunately
life does, you know, I mean, this is a hobby. So life kind of gets in this way. Um, so we love to
find some of them. I'm just proud to fab on G plus. So I'm getting a steady stream of, uh, images
from far stem in my G plus a, uh, I wait a minute. Fab, you can't represent HPR. No, he's got his own
shirt. I know he does. That was a joke. And he also managed to avoid an interview with me as, uh,
odd camp. So, uh, I'm going to have to, uh, and then I said, I'll catch up with him on, uh,
foster them. And now, uh, I'm going to have to find some other way of interviewing him. You know
who we need represent as it was them. Next time you can't make it is, is the numerous. Yeah,
he's also gone there and volunteered to come down and, uh, uh, help, um, out with the show from
time to time, but he's actually involved in the video of the, um, event itself. Oh, yeah. So he's
already working. No, I'm just thinking I can't imagine a better face to put on the HPR than, um,
than Mr and Mrs. Newborough. They were. Yeah. They were great. Sorry. Um, oh yeah. No, I'm mixing up my,
um, mixing up my, uh, names. You're talking about Carnival. For a second, I thought he was going
to be going to the show. Actually, um, I was talking about, uh, Gar, Corvus. And they, uh, is this
from the, um, August Planet show, uh, channel, GovNoo. GovNoo. Oh, yeah. Go, go, go, go, hip
new. That's the one you're going to get. It's, it's tricky when once you learn everybody's
online handles and then you have to learn their real name. Thank you, Google Plus. Yeah. And
it's, you know, you got two names for everybody. And it's, it's tough to keep everybody straight
sometimes. I agree. But I have this thing where I just see their names. It's just a, you know,
it's like a, a picture. That's somebody's name. That's some, uh, don't really read the name
as such. But I know what you mean. Just me. And the where it thing is when you listen to somebody
for, for years, and then you finally do see their picture online, it's just completely different
from the picture that your mind has been making based on the voice. So you reject the actual
picture, I think, and still see them as the made up image. Yeah. I know what you mean. But there's,
there's one guy who is the exception to that rule. And that's, uh, it's Resnell from the tech
misfits. He looks exactly like I thought he would. I had that whole syndrome the whole time at
Alcamp. I was just hearing voices and then looking around and the person I thought would be there
wasn't it. Yeah. So, uh, that would be so much fun. Okay. Where were we episode nine or seven
was learning, um, using a text to speech. This was a text to speech episode. And I don't know
Poké if you saw the emails where we got, um, more volunteers to read out episodes. If you,
if you make the script, there, um, there's been now several people who have volunteered to
read the narrate scripts for us. So, um, thank you very much for all those. Yeah. Sorry. I think
this needs some commenting. Um, I, I did see that. Um, and I did see Mordancy submit. And it seemed
to me when Mordancy submitted the show that he, he had already encoded it with the text to speech.
And it seemed that that's the way that he wanted it released. Um, had it been any other way,
I would have offered to read it. And I know that several other people would have offered to read it.
So, I think at some point we need to look at the, uh, making this an easy choice for people who
are going to read, or, or, I'm sorry, who are going to type out their show or script their show.
And they can choose whether to have it read by a machine or read by a human, maybe even let them
pick their host, uh, from the pool of people who have, who have volunteered to do it. Because
while listening to the machine was, was fine. I didn't, you know, it didn't offend me. Um,
to listen to the machine, I know that listening to a machine and listening to a person
is a different experience. And I think it should be up to the author of the show, uh, as to which
way that it goes. And it just seemed to me that Mordancy wanted it read by a machine. So I didn't
mention it there, but I, I do want to mention for anybody else who feels like they would like to
script their show and would like to have it read by another person or by a machine, you know,
please let us know what your preference is. And maybe we can, you know, publish a pool of
available readers and they can pick the person. I think we should probably make it their choice that
way. That is, um, that's exactly why I'm glad we're doing this as a live show because that's not,
that's exactly what I meant to say. What I said came out completely wrong. Um, yes, he, he recorded
the show with text to speech. And I believe that he did it intentionally. And that's absolutely
fine. In fact, uh, one of my most favorite episodes that I've done myself has been a text to speech
episode. Um, so the, uh, the, the Russian cosmoner episode. That's the one, right? That's the one.
And yeah, I was going to bring that up. That's still one of my favorites. And
did anybody else like have the joke back tears during that episode? Because I did.
Yeah, it's, uh, it's, I don't know if you got a chance to actually watch the
video that come along with that to go off an attention here for a moment, but they, um,
they announced on that day, um, the, the International Space Station, they aligned it so that it would
go across the planet more or less the same orbit that he took. And the interest first, they, um,
speech, they, uh, ground recordings that he made, uh, as, as you're watching that, it is phenomenal
to watch. I didn't watch it, but that's why I didn't watch it. I had a very hard time not
getting choked up, just listening to a robot read the story. To have the story actually presented
like that in a video format, I, I know it had a real hard time. That's what I'm going to watch
at home now to work. Yeah, exactly. I can't watch that at lunch. No, no, it's, uh, it's, you know,
and have a fisherman's friend. I don't know. Do you have those over there? Yeah, we got fishermen's
friends. Most people don't know about them, but yeah, I know, I don't understand why they'd be
helpful for this, but they have an advertising campaign here. You know, you've got these really
tough guys and, um, you know, they're at the fisherman come home and they're all on the boat. And
this young lad, you know, goes down the, you know, young fisherman that's with them. He jumps off
the boat and he runs down the pier and his wife runs at him in slow motion and the hug each other
and, you know, then a dog comes up and, uh, you know, jumps up and, you know,
hug him each other and then she turns around and like, she's got a big belly and she's pregnant
and all, and like, all the, you know, the, all guys are on the boat. You know, and they're all
holding back a tear. And the claim is just because the fisherman's friends.
Classic. That's a great, that's a great, that's a great concept. They didn't see the commercial,
but it's a great concept. Very, very good. And Chris, we'll probably put a link to that in the
show. And we can find it. You better be good. All right. Moving right along. Moving right along,
if we ever end. My reference I have for that is, uh,
there we go again. I was, I was going to say the only, uh, reference I have for that is the
pocket fisherman, which they always used to advertise every Christmas, but I don't think that's
the same thing. No, not quite. You know, a fisherman's friend, it's a, um, it's a, it's a
menthol, uh, it looks like a little brown oval shaped lump of nothing. It's really like this thing.
And you, it's really, uh, you don't think anything of it and you pop it in your mouth and it's
probably like 85% menthol. So it really, it strikes you hard and it's meant for cleaning out your
sinuses and whatnot. But, uh, yeah, it could bring a tear to your eye if you weren't expecting it.
So that's all the, and, and then the pocket fisherman can, if you didn't know, was a, a
telescopic fishing rod that you could, you know, stick in the back seat of your pickup truck
or whatnot and pull out and go fishing. Yep. Okay. And then, okay. Well, that makes sense. I could
probably use that. I used to have a tuba wasabi in the refrigerator I used for the same thing.
I didn't even move it on before this, uh, too big a while back at the point. Back at the point,
yeah. Uh, we had episode Riddlebox with TV downloader Ted. Never heard of this app. Um, yes.
Yes. First I heard of those cool stuff. Um, um, sting, steampunking with,
speaking of getting us banned by Shopea. Yes. Oh boy. Yeah. Well, educational purposes,
perfectly legal, I guess. Um, I think I, I think he has turned two pages at once now. What,
what do you mean, speaking of sofa? Well, the, he's referring to downloading episodes,
episodes of TVs. Oh, on Ted. Okay. Sorry. So, um, episode nine or nine was a steampunking with
insta paper, which was a night cast on how to integrate Google reader and various different things.
A bit complicated. I think that download must have failed for me. It's not even ringing about.
I'm going to have to go look for it. I don't know. So it's sorry. Um, uh, yeah, sorry,
why someone had to go check that out? And then we had an introduction to a page kite, which was
a way to bring public IP addresses to your local host. Um, so if you're behind a ISP that don't
particularly want you to have, uh, IP addresses, public IP addresses, then you can use the service,
which is good that it's there, but it's also very sad that we live in a world where you can't
run your own server, uh, from your own home. No, no, no, no, you mean, but at the same time,
that was a really, um, it was an interesting topic because it was like a really simple thing
that everybody should have thought of, but nobody has or a page guide. It was, it was kind of cool
in that way. And also, it just proves that no matter what you do, people will find a technological
way around it. So yeah. Ha, ha, ha, there you go. 9-1-1, um, hobbies by Mr. X, brilliant, uh,
brilliant, brilliant, brilliant show. Um, so I know we're, we really scoot, scoot over a lot of
the December shows and now we're, we're going through a lot of these shows in depth. So I,
I don't know whether we should go back and do the other shows properly, but this was an interesting
one because, um, all those other hobbies, when I was thinking of the show, I was thinking,
all the other hobbies that he's had, haven't had an influence on all the people, you know, you can,
you can make one, actually, that's probably enough correct because, I mean, he was involved in
the, um, in the CB community and the computer community and stuff. So, uh, but anyway, by doing,
I show on HPR, he has at least also had an influence on my life with his hobby. So good to hear.
Yes. Yeah. It's a good point. Um, I think the reason we're talking about these more is just because
they're fresher in the memory, but I don't mind going back and talking about the others because
there, there was a lot of things I didn't say about those and I, I never tire of discussing HPR.
Yeah, I wouldn't mind getting people's feedback on this show. I know we do it and, uh, you know,
I love talking about these shows because I listen to them all and, um, actually, I'll probably
listen and listen to them after most other people listen to them because, uh, well, we don't filter
anything here in HPR. I happen to be just a community member who posts the shows, so I have no
right as much as anybody else to say whether a show goes on or not. If it's spam, I suppose,
if we ever get to a day where we're so popular, and other people are sent on a spam,
then I'll have no problem deleting that, but, um, uh, I'm not going to you best. And he shows a sec,
except maybe for audio quality, which if it's audible, then it goes on. Which, wow, that's a fantastic
transition into Brockton Bob because he keeps submitting saying, for your approval and for your
consideration and, uh, Mr. Brockton Bob, we're posting them without listening to them first.
I mean, I know some people might listen to them just because they're eager to hear stuff before
everybody else does, but I, it, it pains me greatly to do so, but I wait until they hit the feed
before I listen to anything. And, um, you know, we're, we're not going to edit you're, you're a
community member and you have as much right to post a show to HPR as anybody else does. And the
how I cut the cord part one show 912, which is our next show, was a fantastic episode. And, um,
I, I, uh, I don't want to say it was a good example of us not editing it because it was a good
episode. Um, but yeah, I mean, that's, we don't, we don't do that here. We don't listen to shows
ahead of time and say, oh, that doesn't make the grade. We, we trust our community because we're
part of it and to show distrust in anybody else and you do member would be to say that we don't,
we'd have to hold ourselves to the same standard. So if you have a show you'd like to post, you
know, put it up here, please, we're, we're aching for a show. You know, and while the queue is
pretty full right now, that's, you know, no guarantee of the future. And it, it, it's still,
the queue is always short as long as you, the person who is listening and hasn't participated,
as long as you're missing from it, the queue is still short. I see how he got the guilt trip in
there. No, there wasn't even a guilt trip. That was honestly, that was to say that HPR is about
the community in a way that I don't think anything has been yet that I encountered. And the
community, you know, in quotes there means the people who are involved and if people are lurking,
then they're not exactly involved. Don't we don't, we don't mind lurkers. We don't mind people
who want to want to listen in. I still feel that you, person who is lurking, are a valuable
member of the community. I would like to hear from you in some way because I haven't, I haven't
heard from anybody in the community yet. All these people who say, well, what I have to say
isn't valuable or my, my contribution isn't valuable. Those people have been wrong every time,
every contribution to HPR has been valuable and positive, including yours that you're afraid
to, to, to help us out, you know, that you are valuable. And that's, it's not a guilt trip.
It's an honest to God expression of my appreciation for everything that everyone has done for HPR.
And for the stuff to be in hell back. Couldn't agree more. Okay, do realize you just recorded the
show promo for the next year. And by the way, we're still waiting on your mom's episode.
I might have to give you guys her phone number because she's going to need more persuasion than
just me. Did she listen to the marathon episode? I don't know that she did. She moved into a place
that doesn't have any internet connectivity. They don't have any wires going from, from the town
to her little, her little development. And for her to get a cable TV connection or an internet
connection or even a telephone connection, she has to pay to run the wires. So she's been run through.
Yeah, no, it's, yeah, it's, it's pretty bad. So she's been, they, they either go to the library
with their laptop, which is, you know, a half a day's trip. Or she's been doing it through her
Android phone, which is just not, I gotta say, my mom can't handle it. Android is not user-friendly.
Sorry, Android guys. It ain't user-friendly. My mom can't handle it. Every application that she
opens confuses her because there are not obvious actions to take within them. And that's, and I,
I've, since gotten an Android phone, I've checked a few of them out, and I agree with their,
I configured out because they don't mind poking it stuff. And I'm not afraid to break things,
but for someone who's afraid to damage the phone or, or, or, doesn't know how to back out of an
action, nope, Android is not cutting it as far as usability. Okay, fair enough. Sorry.
Have you considered just setting her up with a pure data connection? USB dongle? My second
data bill might be more than what you want to do. She doesn't want to pay for another bill. She
doesn't want to pay for another thing. And, and I can't. I, I would if I could, but I, you know,
it's not really feasible right now. We talked about tethering, but I didn't think we're getting
way off topic. That's the whole other show now. Okay, fair enough. Let's round it off with
Tolkien to me news by DeepGeek. Welcome back DeepGeek. Yes. I have missed you so much. And we're
already, you know, probably passed by one of your shows here, but I have missed you on this channel
so much, and I am so glad you're back. Well, let's, let's talk about that actually. We have
a few people taking advantage of our regular slots. And I think DeepGeek returning has brought
up two points that I want to address. One is that three actually. And one frank brought up.
One is that you can register a slot to have a regular slot on there. And we now have the first
Monday of every month, which is HPR community news. Every Thursday, we have the syndicated
shows, which the first Thursday of the month is going to be the Sunday morning Linux review.
Showed by the way. And yeah, you won 50. You got some, some shout out from them and some props
on their last episode or the last one I heard anyway. And I'm glad you were the one that said it.
I'm glad you got the shout out. But yeah, I think that's universally echoed that.
Sunday morning Linux review is a great show. I haven't heard anybody say anything bad about it,
and I've heard plenty of good said about it. It's a fantastic addition to the to the week actually,
to the Linux, to my Linux podcast feed. And then we have DeepGeek returning with Toki to me.
So what he is doing is I think his own explanation was fantastic. Essentially, he is going to
come back with HPR, HPR only content, so that he's not clashing with, you know, his shows are
or HPR are edited for HPR, I guess, be the correct word. Yeah, he's basically taking
sometimes excerpts from his own show that are specifically geared towards the hacker public
radio end of the spectrum and not towards his own audience. And then other times he's producing
what seems to be exclusive HPR content, which I mean, wow, that's a heck of a lot of work.
DeepGeek, it's shocking that you would do that and well appreciated that. I want to say that.
And I know we've got a couple of other shows in the works, one of which I already mentioned,
that people are contributing to HPR on a somewhat regular basis that I think are just going to go
such a long way towards strengthening the community and towards helping people to get over
whatever fears they have and helping to want to get involved. I think it's going to be great.
Linux and the Shell is a show that's coming up that's going to be an HPR.
I don't want to say exclusive, but we're going to be part of it. It's kind of a bigger show.
I don't know how to explain it exactly. I think Dan will. Well, we'll wait for Dan to explain
how it's going to go. It's it'll be quite a project that I'm really excited about it.
As of right, it'll be every second Tuesday of the every second Tuesday. It'll be on.
So it's fantastic. Now, 5150, you had mentioned something that you were talking about earlier.
Did you want to bring that up now about, you mentioned the five day a week schedule,
because this is where I was going with that.
Well, I've noticed since I'm back to manually downloading podcasts by visiting the websites,
the most inefficient method that the warning and HPR is being posted on the weekend. I thought
there had been before, but Ken disapuse me of that a few minutes ago. So it's always been five days
a week. It does seem, and I think we can credit it a lot of it to the New Year's Eve broadcast
that we've had. We have more shows in the queue than we've had in quite some time. I will remember
a lot of times down to four or five, and when we start, start bringing the syndicated podcast to
fill in, but I guess, Poking, I were thinking the same thing that may be when we can see our way
clear and have a lot of shows built up in the queue to also do weekend releases to help clear
the queue out. Of course, it's Feast or Famine. We could have 25 now, and in a month not have any.
Yeah, and my response to, I know Ken's response was that he hates the Famine, and I get that.
My response to that would be to say that right now, the queue is full, and I think it's full enough
that we may be ready for some experimentation, and we're not making any decisions here. We'll
put it out to the community, and I think I would like to hear, you know, not just Ken and 51's 50,
50, 150's response to this, but perhaps if you have an idea and would like to post on the mailing list,
my thought would be that as long as the queue is full enough, and who's to say what full enough
means, I think that's a community decision as well, but as long as the queue is full enough,
I maybe we could bump the syndicated shows to Saturday, so that we could put out five days of,
you know, five days a week, week days with dedicated HPR content before we start syndicating other
things, and maybe even, you know, not including the shows that have, you know, taken that Thursday
slot and aren't publishing anywhere else and are making HPR shows, maybe they would be like exempt
from that, but I think it's an option that may be worthy of exploring, considering the number of
shows that we have an queue now, which we haven't had for quite some time. Well, my response to that
would be, I would keep syndicated Thursday the way that it is and have the native HPR content
on the weekends, if the number of shows in the queue providing, that way we're not
bouncing those syndicated shows around that we've committed to and say, oh, you are going to be
on Thursday, now we're going to bounce you to the weekend, up the queue's empty, we need you back,
we'll put you on Thursday, I don't think that's really fair either. That's a good point ahead
and consider it that way. Well, having lived through nearly a year and a half of Faman,
I think having one month's shows is just comfortable for me, especially when you consider that
basically, we put it out that way, we think that, sorry, yeah, you cut out real bad 50, 150, we
think that and then you stopped, we didn't hear anything. Well, Kim was talking at the same time,
I didn't want to walk on him. Just my point on that, okay, if we want to consider 25 or 30 shows in
the queue as our comfort point, then we put out the community, hey, if we have 30 shows in the queue
where they're in 25, we'll be able to afford to do weekends and we might run a special header
on the weekend show. This is a special show that we've been able to provide to you because
of your participation and we'll keep doing this as long as participation stays at this comfortable
level. A bad way to look at it. However, we are producing five shows a week, so I don't know,
we still have 207 free shots, slots left. Yeah, let's see what happens. Let's review this next
month and see how many shows are in the queue. That's all I'll say. HPR at hackerpublicradio.org
is the email address for the mailing list. If you have an opinion on this, please email us
at that address. Subscribe if you're interested in following a conversation, but I think it's officially
a topic open for discussion at this point. Absolutely. Yeah, and attach your episode while you're at it.
Oh, nice one. Okay, I'd like to thank everybody and I'd like to say sorry to pretty much everybody
as well for all the mistakes and stuff that we met during the year, during the last two months.
So I know, I think that's it, right? That's the last shows. I just want to go through the events
actually. Well, yeah, no, I don't mean that's it for the show. I meant that's it for the
the shows that we were going to mention. If you wanted to go back to December, we probably
should say a little bit about some of the new hosts. Anyway, I know some of the other guys have
had some comments and some feedback on their shows, but I didn't want to skip over the new hosts if
we could try that. And just to say, I'm looking through here real quick, the JWP, I'm not sure if
I don't think that was a new one of his, but I really enjoyed his shows.
Frank Bell, however, that was his first show. I mean, I did enjoy that great thing. And I mentioned
how much I like that on the the New Year's Eve show and I'm going to stand by that comment.
Let's see. John and SC was that his first show? The redo backup in their
recovery. One point of one that was, and we get to talk about it, didn't we? Was there anybody
that we missed? I really hate to leave people, you know, left out with... Well, of course, some
DM Fry, that's Dan Fry from Tiltz and the MFTV podcast. Oh, yeah, yeah, Dan Fry, you know, he's
that he's a good guy and that was a great show. I think the only two that we probably didn't
talk about was, did we, did we even talk about, um, Garjola and Ahuka's shows, 900 and 901?
Because I don't want to skim over how great those were, not just to hear as far as like the
shows were good, because they were really good shows. But to see two new contributors pop up
right after the New Year's Eve show was like, I mean, it was like such a reward, such like
verification and justification for doing something like the New Year's Eve show that, um,
I mean, that was like, it felt like some of the best feedback ever to get some of these new guys,
you know, um, Garjola and Ahuka and Akrainus, um, you know, just popping up and putting these things
in there as their first shows. That, I mean, that was great feedback, you know, I thought it was,
I mean, for them, it wasn't feedback, but I don't want them to go and mention that way.
Yeah, I think we've, uh, go ahead over. I just want to say thanks again to the other podcast
who, uh, talked up to New Year's Eve event, uh, when we maybe, uh, didn't have a,
didn't release until right before where it was going to be hosted, but we, we got a lot of
talking about it and there's a lot of people I think who started listening to Hacker Public Radio,
not just to people who, uh, uh, uh, weren't sure if we were still around, but I think we picked
up a lot of new listeners and we wouldn't have done that without the support of the other podcast
who, uh, spoke about the event ahead of time. Absolutely. Um, one thing that I was thinking about,
as a result of that was, I think there's a real need for a mirror network or, um, or podcasting,
you know, something where people who are doing live shows like this one, for instance, could get
cost into, um, and it would feed us like a stream of, um, ice cast servers that are host, you know,
if people got hosting plans or whatever and they're not using it that much that we would have
something like, uh, that they could have an ice cast server in our DNS, um, and that would then
play out all these shows and stuff. Yeah, for sure. If you want to add HDR, um, you know,
your live broadcast, if you're trying to fill a stream, you know, 24, seven, please put us in there,
we are creative commons licensed for a reason. Well, I've had an idea for years that, well, not
years for a while, that, uh, I don't really have the skills at this point to implement. If you go
into Google and you type in, uh, TV schedule, you get TV guide and AOL and all kinds of, uh,
all kinds of choices so you can see what's on TV in your area. And really, what I would like to see
is, uh, the same sort of thing for live podcasting that, that would have to be interactive because
sometimes a podcast, even though they have a schedule day of the week that they go on,
they're an hour later, they have to cancel or they go on the next day, but if there was some sort of
interactive site where the, uh, show contributors could log in and update their own schedules,
and then as a listener, uh, if you sat down at your computers at tonight, I want to, or this afternoon,
I want to listen to a live show. Let's see what's on. I think that would be, uh, great boons of
the community. We should, uh, fire something out about that. One other thing I did want to mention
before we go on, I really need to go now because it's, uh, getting late and I have,
yes, sad, though it is with the washing, dang up and all the rest. Um, I wanted to point out a really
good site that I've come across called, um, boss event events.org link in the show notes,
boss events.org and they have, um, a list of free and open source events that, um, they maintain
where you can post your event if it's coming up and they maintain a live or SS feed of, of coming
events. Some of the events that are not in there that I do want to, uh, talking about,
uh, is, uh, let me just give a rundown on those. Is this Southern California Linux Expo, um,
unfortunate, that was on the 20th, 22nd of January. Unfortunately, we can get to, uh,
interview them in time, but we, they've been on all those shows. Uh, this weekend is FOSTEM.
Now coming up on the third of, uh, sorry, 17th of the third, which is in Patrick's Day,
will be the Northeast GNU Linux Fest. And I believe Pokey and Latu are going to be at that.
Am I correct? Yes. At the very least, I will be there. Uh, Clyte too has said that he's,
he's making his best effort to be there. I guess he's got one or two things, um, still up in the air
and contingent upon that. And several other people have said that they want to be there. Um,
and, and they're gonna try to be there. So if anybody's going to the Northeast GNU Linux Fest,
would like to do interviews, would like to put in time at the HPR table,
would like to represent HPR in any way. Please get in contact with me. Um, not that I'm in charge
of this, but I'm willing to step up, step up and coordinate it. Unless anybody else wants
the coordinating job, you can have it, please, you know, honest if you want it. But if not, until
further notice, I guess I'm the one coordinating this. So if you want to participate, please get in
touch with me and let me know so that I can get you, um, like an HPR T shirt with a logo on it
or something. If you want to do interviews, we need interviews. If you want to sit at the table,
while some people go watch talks, that's great. Um, it was, it was a really, really positive thing
last year, not only to be at the Northeast GNU Linux Fest because wow, what a great best it was.
It was, it was a lot of fun. But to be there as part of HPR was fantastic. And to have HPR
there at all was fantastic. Um, a lot of people in the, the change in topic slightly. Anyway,
if you want to get, if you want to participate, please contact me. I'm pda.ly.03 at gmail.com.
That's pda.il.eu.y.03 at gmail.com or hpr at hacker.publicradio.org. It either one will get to me.
Yeah, the HPR is the mailing list for everybody. But if you email admin.attackupublicradio.org
will go to, okay. Yep, that's fine. That's great. And if you want to participate in that.
Now, also a lot of other people have been asking me about stickers. Um, because the sticker thing
was a big thing last year, I cannot personally fund the stickers the way that I did last year.
It was, um, if, I don't want to say it was a huge bill. But if I, if I put it on my budget this
year, it would be, it would, it would break, break the budget. If somebody wants to step up and buy
some stickers for any type of event, that's fine. I will contribute. I will do my part. Or if anybody
can get us a line on some free stickers, that would be great. Um, I think probably in order of
importance, what we need this year is maybe 500 of the little stickers that Klaatu made up that
said, um, uh, I think it was, I learned to be nosy on the inner webs at HPR and had a little guy
typing on a keyboard. It was really, really cool. Stickers fantastic. If we had about 500 of those
and two to 300 of the HPR oval logos that you can stick on your, your car window or the back of
the laptop, um, that would be enough, I think, to get us through at least a good bit of the year.
And that, and that's not just for North East canoe Linux Fest. That would be handing them out at
every fest and whoever, you know, hands them out, mails them, mails the remainder along to the next
fest. I think that might be enough to get it done. Um, we do have an offer, um, name excuse me,
again, turbo with names to have stickers printed off. So let's, uh, let's see about that as well.
Yeah, yeah. And the only thing, um, need to be added to that was that the sticker that Klaatu made,
for some reason, I don't know if it was in the printing or what, but the QR code is not correct.
In that sticker, if you, if you follow that QR code, it, it's like a 404 or something, I'm not sure.
That's because that fix too. Yeah, yeah, but if somebody could, I mean, Klaatu, if you want to do it
fine or if you can't, if somebody else could do it, just, you know, I think like QR Gen, I think
is the command line, um, uh, program that generates an QR code. Um, I can do that part if anybody
wants a QR code, I can send you that, but to edit it into the sticker in a way that's acceptable,
the sticker companies because they like real high resolution stuff. That's the part that's
a little bit above my head. I can do that. It's all a problem. Yeah. So if we can just get that done,
at least we'll have something to give to the people who want to print these things up, or if you
have a design print sticker and you want to help us out, that would be awesome too. And any of
that would be great. If we don't get it, we're still moving ahead. We're still going to go to the
con and the fest, but if you can help us out with that, it was, it was really positive last year,
helped out a lot in the years before. Okay. There's, um, an open position here at HPR, by the way.
I just want to have Jeff. I'll talk off to this. I just want to interject on, uh,
NELF, if, uh, not clock two shows up, uh, anybody who attends won't have any expenses because he'll
be conducting a week long symposium on urban camping. Yeah, yeah, and scoring some free food.
So yeah, it's your expense if you, if you listen to his advice.
Okay. Thanks for that. Um, as you've been listening to this segment, you'll realize that there's
a lot of events coming up. So we have, uh, so cal North, uh, Linux Fest, North West is also going
to be on the fourth on, uh, on the 28th of the, of the fourth. And David Whitman is going to be,
so they're representing HPR. So the URL for that is Linux Fest North West.org.
And we have the whole, how Linux Fest has emailed us saying that their call for talks is open
at the minutes as well. Um, can we, I, I, I see David Whitman's email address here. Do we want to
give that out as the coordinator for the HBR, um, front, uh, yes, and the easiest way you can
contact him is go on the HPR mail list, HPR at hacker public radio.org or his email, David,
Glenn Whitman at gmail.com, which will be in the show notes for this episode. Um, now as, as you were
talking, as we were talking there, it's, and before it was obvious to me that we have, uh,
open space for sharing out some work here. And what I've been trying to think about over the
last while is, you know, how can we take certain chunks of work, put it together so that it can be
given to somebody. It's not too much work to do. It's enough that you could spend a little time
and it'll take, really take the load off our backs. And one of those things is an event manager.
And what the job, uh, would entail would be maintaining a, um, list of events that are coming up,
free and open source events that the HPR community will be, community members will be likely to be
and possibly convincing some of them to go and have a HPR booth, um, possibly contacting
the event organizers, getting their promo stickers and all that sort of stuff and sending it to,
to me or one of the other admins so we can put it on the website or hopefully we'll be able to
have you do that yourself. Um, you know, the general everyday run of the mill things around
having these events coming up because I think it would be a nice resource for HPR to be able to
do that for the community to say, right? Here's events that are coming up and here's where we'll be at.
Yeah, absolutely. And, and we're not looking specifically for people who have experience at doing
this or who consider themselves professionals. If you want to give a hand at this and, uh, you
know, give a try at this and see if it's something that suits you or if you think it suits you, um,
you know, at the end of the day, if you don't like the job that you did, we're not going to blame
you for it because no one else has stepped up to do it. We're just looking for volunteers who are
willing to give it a shot who are willing to, you know, step forward and say, I will try this. It
isn't being done and it's too much for Ken Fallon to do. It's too much for Clack 2 or Pokey
or 5150 to do and, and I'm going to give a shot in any effort that you put in any help that you
can give us is appreciated and, you know, goes in that, in that column of positive things that
you've contributed to HPR, not negative things, even if you think you've failed at it because,
believe me, I think I've failed at plenty of things at HPR and people have said, hey, great job. So,
it's, it's, it's not about that. We just, we want the community to participate. We want HPR to be
a thing that is more than the sum of its total parts and you are a part of, of that sum.
And in this position, I would say is, has been just as service for HPR, but equally other, you know,
other podcasters could, could, could avail of that service, you know, events that are in the area
that we could promote their events. So, if you're looking for the banners, if you're looking for the
promos, just a central place like the way, like the way Dan Waschko maintains the Linux,
Linux link.net, it's just a list of other podcasters out there. You know, if you could,
I personally wouldn't intend this to be on the HPR website, per se, that the philosophy at the
events will get added to FOS events.org and we would use their feed, you know, so that way everybody
in the community wins. So you go to, I don't know, let's just take Linux outlaws there and they
have the FOS events or SS feed in there. The work that this community manager per HPR has done
will get reflected in all these other websites. So, you know, it's, it's a way that without
having to spend an awful lot of time doing it, it's basically just a heads up. These are the events
that are coming up around the world or here's a promo that I heard in somebody else's podcast.
Let's make sure it's on FOS events. Let's make sure that HPR knows about it.
And that means just emailing the list. Is anybody going to this event, you know?
Can, can, would you consider someone who participates in such a thing as event coordination
or some such thing? Would you consider them exempt from submitting their one show over a year?
No, absolutely. That would be, that would be the contribution, absolutely.
All right, there you have it. And speaking of contributions, speaking of community,
and speaking of things we want people involved in, 5150, you wanted to talk about show 1024.
Right, first, I want to say, don't let Polka give you an impression that I've been doing
anything in the background, but this is an idea that I had the other day. I saw the dominer on
the episode tick over 900, and I put a mention out to the mailing list that, hey, 1,000 is coming
towards us this year. I've seen pictures of your cars. That's not the first time you've seen 900
tick over. Oh, I don't even buy them till they've, I don't consider it worth driving till it's hit
200,000. Okay, sorry, didn't mean to kill it. All right, so show, show 10,000 what to come up
or 1,000. But I put a mention out to the mailing list, we want to do anything for 1,000, maybe have,
I still think, be good idea if people will maybe record a congratulations and send it in.
But I think we want to do something a little more in that we've been talking about.
And so we're talking about putting together a panel podcast, not necessarily live, but I think
it might not be a bad idea if we could have a stream running and then have a forum set up so
folks could send in questions for the panel. But I wanted to see if we could set up a panel
consisting of some of the original hosts from today with a techie and Ben Rev and maybe the
first year or so of HPR. And of course a lot of them are still active, still recording HPRs and
some of them we haven't heard from in a while. It would like to get back in touch with. So this,
this, consider this is the initial shout out to those original hosts. I have several in mind
that I always enjoyed and hadn't heard from in a while. Well, I'm going to try to get in contact
with everybody. But we've got, I'm guessing, depending on if we go five or more days, a week podcast,
I guess we're looking at probably sometime in April that we're going to get to 1024. And I
should credit stankdog here. I skipped over that. I said 1000 and stankdog mailed in the mailing
was we really ought to do 1024. So we may want to make some kind of mention to 1000 when we hit that
but the celebration is going to be for show 1024. That is a fantastic idea.
Absolutely. Actually, what would be a good idea would be they let's contact the other podcast
people and see if they can send us in there. This is a blah, blah, blah from the blah, blah
podcast, wishing HPR a good, a good episode 1000. So I have a separate one for one or two four,
which would be the one that you are now responsible for organizing 5150. That's what I was going to say.
5150 is the organizer and maintainer of show 1024. He may not be able to be on it as he's told
me in the back channel. He may not be able to participate in the recording of the show. But he's
told me in perhaps other words that he's more than willing to organize the show and arrange what
happens. Well, I would very much like to be on the show just with my slow connection. I think we're
going to be limited to mumble again. I had an idea of maybe doing a doing on G plus on a hangout.
But I think my connection will drag everybody else down if we tried that. So
going going forward, I think I want to look at mumble. But I would like somebody to volunteer
and not poke and not can because they're busy enough. But if there's someone out there listening,
not to mention nobody likes us. Right. Uh, who'd like to volunteer to be a backup host because
in my situation, I've caretaker responsibilities. There's always a chance. Uh, you know,
I went patrol could come call me and tell me the herds out on the highway or something like that.
I, you know, in my situation, moments notice we are best laid plans. We schedule for
set time. Everybody's going to get together. And then where's 5150? And I don't want to
everything to drag off for my absence. But I do, I do intend, uh, if it all possible to host. But
it's what we probably want to do is find a time that's convenient for everybody to record the show
for the, for all the panel participants. And I, I did think it would be neat. And I, I hate to
commit, uh, Pac-Man music or anybody else to streaming. Uh, but if, maybe if we could stream
at the same time, but it's not, I don't want it to be like this big thing. Everybody coming in
the New Year's Eve podcast, but if someone has a question, that gives you a way for people to come
in, participate, and maybe go along cast planning. If we wanted to monitor that for questions,
also ahead of time, uh, just because maybe I'm not the best one to pick the greatest questions to
ask these luminaries who we hope to be, who hope to be coming in. If people can start sending in
questions ahead of time to, uh, the hacker public radio admin or to the mailing list,
or to, or to me, you can contact me. I'm, uh, 5150 written out, uh, frank India, frank, uh, tango,
yellow, uh, you know, like that, like that, the word 5150, no spaces, uh, at,
Linux based luminaries, which you just eliminated half the people who wanted to put
this thing. Well, some of the, how about any old guy who, who was an original guy, I don't
want to say any old guy, it's, it's actually, you guys mean a lot more to us than that. Um,
yeah, anyone who, who was even remotely involved in the founding of HPR and, and, and been rev and,
and, uh, today with a techie, sorry, today with a techie, yes. Um, that's right. I don't want to see
that today with a techie stickers, Pokey. I don't have any of them. Hello. Um, okay. Let's, uh,
write this up in the show notes. More information will be for coming to, there's a few things I'd
like to mention about the site. Um, if you go to beta, it does, um, hackupublicradio.org,
it's the hubby public radio.org instance is now running on the HPR website under beta, it does.
Oh, awesome. Yeah. We could go. I'm still having, um, some issues with that that I'm not comfortable
with going live. Um, I don't, there's something out with the WordPress instance. So that's why, uh,
in the foreground, you're not seeing massive changes there. One thing that I am going to be doing
is every host will be getting a, uh, your host name at hackerpublicradio.org in the feed rather than
your own live email address. And the reason for that is, um, I think, well, it's nice to get,
everybody will have a hackerpublicradio.org email forwarder. So in my case, uh,
can underscore, file on that hackerpublicradio.org will get forwarded to ken.fala at gmail.com.
There is no way to automatically do that. So whenever somebody sends you an email, uh,
I will set up the redirect. So I've asked the guys, um, to see if there's a way that we can automate
doing that. Um, maybe, uh, if I just do an export for a start or something will, and then
afterwards, um, when all get added, I can just add them manually. So that's that.
And I also updated the correspondence web page where there is, um, we no longer have account
of the number of shows that people have done. There is just the date of the last show that they have
done. That's, I think, that more reflects the community aspect of HPR. And one last thing was I put
the edited date on the calendar, um, text file. So you know, when it was edited last. So if you
uploaded a show and, um, the calendar has been edited since then, and you don't see your show,
please email me as some people have done so that they know what's going on.
That's it from me. 5150. Did you have anything to add?
Yeah. Uh, oh, um, thinking if we can set up a page or, uh, can just cover, uh, email addresses.
Maybe I can set something up. Uh, the project for 1024, uh, I didn't, uh, I didn't intend it that
way, but it just typed it in and came to me. Uh, we do, uh, we, uh, label our episodes,
EP and then a four digit number. So I typed in, happened to type in, I was going to call it
HPR 1K, but EP 1K, uh, looks like epic when you read it. So I think we're going to start calling
the, I, I don't want to turn into another epic podcast, but that's, that's my name for the project
is, uh, EP 1K. Love it. Love it. So we can refer to it that way for shorthand going forward,
and I guess if we can set up a page on, on HPR for that to coordinate and maybe an email address
that would, uh, help us get a start. We do have like four months, three months, uh, to get organized,
which is about as much time as I'll probably need. Awesome. Awesome. Thank you.
Can't be. That's how public radio don't require you on that going 5150.
Did you want just to go to, uh, my to forward it to me then? Yep.
Already set up now. Okay. I didn't catch every bit of when you were talking about that. So yeah,
it's just, uh, 5150 at linuxbasics.com, not linuxbasics, linuxbasement.com. Uh, and as always,
that just because I have a linuxbasement, uh, address that should not be construed as an endorsement,
uh, uh, uh, by chat or by Claudio, and they probably even forgot to give me that address.
And epic at act for public radio.org now forwards to you at 5150 at linuxbasement.org. So if you
email echo papa the number one K for kilo at act for public radio.org, it'll go to linux to uh,
5150. All right. Um, I think it's probably about time to wrap it up. Oh, is this,
unless anybody else has anything to add what you don't, uh, I would like to thank everyone for
listening to, uh, to the monthly review for January 2012 of hacker public radio. Um,
Ken and 5150. Thank you so much for joining me on this episode. This has been one of the most,
uh, fun times I've ever had recording upon a podcast. You guys have been really great. You said,
every time I, I love this. I love doing this. And you guys are so great. Just to talk to and chat
with and, and joke around with and, and you know, I mean, we're getting, you know, real work done,
but we're still goofing off with it and joking about it. And it's just, it's so much fun to do.
And you guys are so great. So, uh, thank, thank you guys for joining me on here. And thank you
to everybody for listening. And this is me. I am out. You have been listening to Hacker Public
Radio or Hacker Public Radio. Those are, we are a community podcast network that releases shows
every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a
HBR listener by yourself. If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find
out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
economical and computer cloud. HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref
projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is
released under a creative comments, a tribute show, share a like, read those own license.
