Episode: 800
Title: HPR0800: WebOS
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0800/hpr0800.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 02:42:09

---

.
.
Hello, this is Sunday Man 1, aka,
H-E-K-A-G-B-B-C.
I last contributed with the historic science
on the short show titles,
sex lines, and so on.
But anyway, today I just want to talk briefly about
that unclamable S.
And why is it even matter?
Basically, in the embedded space for mobile applications
or phones, so in phones,
you have major player, Android,
and you also have major player, iOS,
and to a lesser extent,
Sypian, and to a lesser extent,
Windows Phone 7.
And what I want to talk about today is the fact that
it troubles me that the only
pure Linux stack, or a 90-tulet stack,
but the only pseudo Linux stack available now
is really the first one.
The first file launch, I should say,
is really the Android.
And why it troubles me that basically,
if you look at this space,
and I personally have a Nokia N900,
which I don't know,
and M5 to be,
you know, is good enough
for what I'm working on.
Problem is,
it's not really the version file,
and I'll get to that.
But the problem is,
it needs to have,
my opinion needs to have,
some things that should be honest.
And what I mean by that,
Sypian is,
the only choice we have,
is the answer we have to,
push, go, go,
keep, go,
honest,
go, keep, go,
two,
two,
two,
two,
two,
two.
One,
two,
two,
four,
two,
two.
have been changed ever so slightly since not until we print it on the phone for the sun.
Now I guess we'll put it for you.
So you really need to have one choice if you want to have, if you want to submit it,
but it's quite frankly, you know, as much as I had this day before, when Tom had done it,
and they're attempting to come and explain.
Quite frankly, they were a choice, and they hinted at themselves,
because people who wanted to try a minute snack, who cared about this or anything,
who wanted to have something other than an Android, other than a Wolfring, had a choice,
just like mammal fly and the Mego.
No kid of screw, they're not growing, being a lot of mistakes, but yet it was a choice.
And there is an ecosystem up there that supports those devices that are running mammal fly,
and that made you so, if you don't have the choice, they would typically happen to you.
People do what they feel they need for their show.
And the end of the day is a business.
They are business that's interested in driving people to their advertising,
driving people to their properties when you're running, you know,
to show their science in and some of the other things that make it a little bit more open
or make it less likely that you attract the desk.
But at the end of the day, they're a business, and they're driving them to their shelves.
And they should ask Christopher Bauder how much he cares about freedom.
I'm sure he cares, but he's just one van.
And that basically is my fault.
I thought he was flashing this, because I think it lends us up to a bit more conversation
than what I can give it in a short five to ten minutes of summer.
Of course, it's not a technical discussion.
It's more of a discussion-free.
And a discussion on just my experiences with the embedded space
that have a lot of passion behind it and a lot of interest in it.
One I see from the service standpoint.
Absolutely.
Technically speaking, Android is probably a very fantastic platform,
a technical nature, which is worth it.
But I hope you found some value here.
You found any value if you disagree.
Feel free to send me an e-mail.
So just visit http.ekeg.org, slash blog.
Give me a weird, or should we email?
A green at www.ekeg.org.
Look at Dr. Phil.
And thanks for your time.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
For more information on the show and how to contribute your own shows,
visit hackerpublicradio.org.
Thanks for watching.
