Episode: 806
Title: HPR0806: HPR Community News for Aug 2011
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0806/hpr0806.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 02:51:28

---

.
Hello everybody, this is Ken Fallon with Hacker Public Radio Community News for August 2011.
First of all, I'd like to welcome some new hosts to the network.
J. Voltael, Voltael, who did a show with Stank, Diablo Marks, Mike Hengley,
Gurm, Suzo Man, One and Sarafox.
I'd like to thank them all for contributing shows to Hacker Public Radio.
And let's get into the show review for the last month.
It started off with Mr. Gadgets, technical ethics and open source,
where he discussed running software on Windows and OSX.
Should we make a stand in order to support technological ethics?
The following day we had Libertarian Nizm and IT Amatch Med in Heving,
by Disney's Science, bringing up some interesting discussions.
You can contact with DisneyScience.HPR at gmail.com if you got more feedback on that.
The following day we had the full circle podcast, Part 3, which was the edit.
These are some of the most interesting ones that we've had for a while
and they will be, I promised, Robin that we'll put them on to a separate section on HPR
on how to edit shows.
We had Quibnu with Oral Recording, which was something I had no idea about,
surprisingly enough, and completely lost on me because I download all my podcasts in Mono
because I listen usually with one earbudding and I sped up three or four times.
So I had to go back and listen to the original again and then I sort of got it listening on headphones
at all. Very, very interesting topic.
Then the following day we had droops with some streaming sporting events.
What he wants to do is kind of revolutionize sporting using consumer-grade cameras
to switch between one and the other.
Replied to him as to why he wants to be able to do that, which I don't know if that is useful
but at least now he knows why he can't do that.
A colleague at work worked in an outside broadcasting, one of the outside broadcasting vans
and was able to give detailed instructions on how to do that.
I am pestering him to do a show, but his big conscious of his English being Dutch,
English is not his native language, but if you guys would like to hear that show,
please email me and I'll forward on the requests.
Next day was one of the summer shorts and if you will still run those if you want,
it was a how to grip for tab by myself.
The next day was a GWP who I also had the pleasure of meeting as Ogcamp.
I also met Robin Gattling as well at Ogcamp.
With a argument about Bitcoin and he said that I actually got a lot of negative feedback
about putting this Bitcoin episode on and a lot of people said it was infactual
and referred back to the guy's Linux action show or whatever it's called now.
Apparently said it was infactual but unfortunately they didn't say what was infactual about it.
I believe there was one thing about the Federal Reserve and that was infactual
but overall I felt it was an important topic and even if it was infactual,
GWP went to an add to the discussion which was the whole point of it.
Then we had our syndicated Thursday for that week which was Geeknight's Git,
the fast control system and they are quite verbals.
This was recommended to me by Polky and they there was a lot of banter
but then 30 minutes in it kind of got quite interesting with the rundown on Geess
and how easy it is to work.
Diablo Marcus came in with a quick drop down terminal.
I used a quick quite a lot on Kiri so nice one there.
Then we had an interview with Moose about the Ohio Linux Fest
which is going to take place in Ohio.
I don't have the dates in front of me which is kind of odd but they will be on the website.
Mr Gadgets give us some feedback on by oral recording from episode 785
and the following day, the Monday, sorry following Monday.
We had Tlatu starting a mini-series and server client relationships DHCP server.
Tlatu is sent in quite a lot of shows and because of the scheduling rules,
I also recorded quite a lot of shows on camp but because of the schedule rules,
we still have free slots every week for the coming times so don't feel that.
We have this rule where we won't repeat a show or a series or a whole stunt in any given week
so that means there's plenty of opportunity for you to jump in and climb up the queue and get your show in.
Then we had the full circle podcast, you cubed debrief with Robin Gatling and Les.
I put this out after I came back from my camp and I interviewed Les twice in a camp
and I never met the link to him.
I had that whole thing and all weekends, you just have a vision of somebody's face in your head
when you listen to them via audio and Les was completely different.
I had a completely different picture in my head for Les.
Apologies Les for not making the link.
Then the following day we had one of the first interviews that got us on campers,
John Euren from the about Floss in the UK Civil Service.
The following day I bumped up an interview with Shane Marx which I did over the weekend.
I met Shane on the Friday night and he was telling me that there was going to be a hack space week
in Ireland and I went to an interview and we never bumped into each other then after that.
For an interview so I called him up and we bumped that up to the top of the show
with the time permission of all the other people in the queue.
We put that on the Monday which is why two of my shows are repeating, which normally wouldn't happen.
I want to apologise as well for the clipping on my side for some reason or another.
I hope it's not going to happen on this one because it's late and I need to get this one out without editing.
Then we had Mike Kingley who was one of the people I met at our camp dialed in a show
how to get into Linux.
The following day we had GERM with the IBM Model M keyboard
with various links to what is arguably the best keyboard ever.
I personally hate it. It's too clicky clicky, it makes too much noise from my liking.
Although as a blunt instrument for hitting colleagues it's absolutely ideal.
Not that I'd recommend that or anything.
Then we had the full circle podcast again Robert Kattling with part 4 editing podcast.
Following on from that we had Sons of Manmon with an episode 800 which was WebOS
which is a really short show outlining.
Is it good that WebOS is going to...
It's probably not a good thing that we have a model of culture for an open source mobile operating systems.
Platoon then come in with another mini-series slacker builds which is...
That is going to be doing unpackaging applications for GNU Linux and BSD.
I had an interview with Anna Nielsen on DC software documentation.
This is one of the interviews I took in a camp.
Then we had a Sasha Fox, Sarah, Sasha Fox perhaps.
Sorry handles as you know is not my best thing, not my best thing.
That list is pretty full either how I never know the good sport call.
They made a hundred dollar donation and as a result they got to talk to Jason DeRose
and we'd already had an interview with him back in episode 780.
But it was nice to get another side of this which will hopefully be some good software at the moment.
We have to admit it is very aware so we'll see what happens.
Then the next day we did what I'll be doing, what I plan to do is a Augmented podcast
from some of the interviews that I did at Aug Camp.
I intend to release three types of interviews actually.
You can see them in the show notes.
There were standalone interviews with people of our projects.
So I'll release those during the week as just normal episodes.
Then I did interviews with background interviews with some people.
The organizers and that sort of thing.
I'll probably release that as a just standalone episode as well.
I edited it in together whenever I get time to do that.
Then I interviewed some people who had already presented at the festival.
What I intend to do is do an Augmented podcast on those which will be like I did with winmires and fit in the conniptions
who I had the pleasure of drinking with on the Saturday night and interviewed.
Wayne is a singer in the band, fit in the conniptions and he gave a presentation
but he was also good enough to give me an interview.
At the interview I tagged on the interview at the beginning and then I tagged on the presentation
at the end and edited in one of his songs that we were allowed to play.
One of the other people that I interviewed was, let me see, Steve Lee.
And I got to see his presentation in one of the only presentations I've seen
because I was on the booth most of the time.
He was on about accessibility within Linux and one of the things that he brought out
was Augmented Soundtracks, which I'm familiar with from work, which is essentially narration
of what's going on the screen for the blind visually impaired or people who happened to be on a lawnmower
at any given moment.
So what I did was intercut descriptions of what was on the screen or what URL he typed.
And I emailed Jonathan Nadu, the resident accessibility expert.
And by the way, if there's anyone out there with the cache or with the inclination
to give this guy a job to do open source advocacy for the free and open source community,
I would be much impressed if you did do that.
So let's start a campaign to get Jonathan Nadu employed by somebody.
Ideally, I'd like to see Red Hat, Canonical, OpenSooza, Higher This Guy,
and put him to good work to do an accessibility work for the open source community.
But only that's a by the way.
So he was quite happy with the effort and has made some suggestions which I'll incorporate
into the next ones that will be in these Augmented podcasts.
But they will also be released according to the schedules that they scheduling rules that we have up.
So it'll be on a first come first serve basis never repeating two shows or a host at any given Thursday.
So it might take a while for all these to come down the queue.
And if you want to give me a hand writing, you know, describing what's on the screen at any given time,
feel free to do that. I really, really appreciate it. It's a lot of work actually.
It's a lot of work editing as well.
So if you're only giving me a hand with the Augmented podcasts, I appreciate it.
And then starting how we, closing how we began, we had Mr Gadgets on how MonsterCable got his name.
Quite an interesting episode if you want to listen to it as a short one.
I don't want to thank Mr Gadgets and all the holes for continuing to be the lifeblood of HPR
because without you guys sending in shows, we will not have a network.
If you look at the calendar now, it's actually, you know, as follows, I've ever seen it.
Club 2's sending a lot of shows and with the Aug Camp shows, we have a lot of shows coming up.
But there are still free slots again because of the scheduling rules and the way things work.
So I don't want people to get, you know, too bored listening to either myself or Club 2.
Not that I don't think that would be possible to get bored or listening to Club 2.
So without further ado, I'd like to go to the thank you section.
And I'd like to thank Phoenix for signing, doing the insurance forms for the table.
Tony Laura and Polki from the Ubuntu UK, organizing people who helped organize the table.
I want to thank Hendrick for printing out the HPR stickers and stuff.
I don't have a Dutch trick sprinter, so Hendrick printed them out for me.
He won't arrange me three G cards so that I could be in communication while in the UK.
Polki and Code Crunchier have organized the packs that we had, all the stickers, all the iron-on stickers,
the QR code, the business cards and all that.
Thank you very much to them.
I'd like to thank Manon for putting up a meeting in the presentation.
That's my wish.
For about a month beforehand, every evening behind the keyboard.
I'd like to thank Kevin O'Brien and Ivan Prevensi for suggesting talk names for that.
Door-to-do, geek, Kevin Barry and all the other guys for helping out getting the graphics together.
Then moving on from the old camp, thank yous.
Actually, I'd also like to thank all the organizers of all camp and especially all the crew members.
I was, we were down and we had a table and everything set up and realized that my laptop cable didn't work.
The adapter that I brought over just broken asked Les about a five seconds later cable and power adapter for my laptop appeared on the desk.
I had used that absolutely.
You want to see the way this place was organized.
I have been to many as a professional conference and have not seen the level of professionalism.
That's what I saw at all camp.
It was absolutely fantastic and a big shout out to them for that.
I'd like to thank also Josh Knapp who is our server admin on HPR, I believe.
We had a little bit of downtime and he worked around the clock to get us back up in operation.
Then we had, I want to thank Johan Paul for checking out the RSS feed and prompting me to get it fixed.
I'll again shout out to everybody who gave feedback on what pod catches to use and the people who tested this switch over.
We switched over from the original RSS feed which was built to the 1.0 specification to the 2.0 spec.
Something I'd be planning to do for ages but it had slipped my mind but when Jonathan prompted me I decided,
yeah, now is the time to do it so we did that.
I want to talk to thank Leigh Carrayan for the tip and how to get flash videos linking the show notes.
Oh, and Andy Piper for the website feedback.
Chapa met at our camp UK and I'll be going through some of that feedback later on.
I want to thank our listener who coincidentally has the same initials as HPR, Henry Patrick Riley,
for allowing us to basically use his Gmail account or for posting HPR announcements
on his Google Plus account so if you search for Henry Patrick Riley, good Irish name,
then you will come on to the Google Plus account with information about HPR.
Then I think that's it. I would want to give apologies to Billy Cook.
Sorry for missing your email about S3 command. I got it just before our camp and going through my emails there,
I realized that I missed it. It looks like a very very cool client and I plan to use it.
It's a Python command line tool for accessing an Amazon cloud.
And because archive.org have the ability now to access this like an Amazon cloud,
then hopefully this will work. Apologies to her for the delay in getting your stickers out.
And a big apology to stankdog and lunar pages for not getting their addout faster.
I want to talk to you very briefly about a camp. You're going to be sick to that of hearing all the interviews.
I'm sure people were avoiding me as I went there. Just give you a quick rundown what happened.
I went to work. I had almost stuff ready. I flew out from Scribble because I work beside there.
I flew into Gatwick, got the train down, a taxi to the hotel, then decided to walk out to the venue,
which was in London, Jason Town. The signpost said it was only older shot three.
And I've gotten two things in the 10 years since I've moved to the Netherlands.
Thing number one is that the UK is still using miles and not kilometers.
So three miles is significantly longer than three kilometers.
And thing number two is that there are hills in the UK, which for those of us listening in the Netherlands,
they're like sand dunes on either taller and there's more of them.
So after a very energetic walk, I eventually met it to the pub beside the venue.
And I was just wearing a Debbie and T-shirt with Debbie and Scroled and even said Debbie.
And it was kind of cool. Being able to spot the different people who were obviously there for all camp.
It was interesting because a lot of people don't know, as it turns out, a lot of people don't know HPR.
And don't know of me because I'm not particularly in the community associated with the community of Linux Outlaws or the Ubuntu UK podcast,
other than being a listener from a day one.
So I kind of got to experience what it would be like again.
It reminds me of what it would be like turning up to an event, not knowing anybody, just as a general listener.
And this was the experience that I had a few years ago when I went to the first look radio.
And as it turned out, a lot of the people who had met there hadn't turned up this year.
It is amazingly welcoming crowd.
So you're standing there with a beer by yourself.
And I was talking to Fab and Dan and the guys who went to UK people.
Although Tony, although I was buying them a drink and I just had no idea that Polki looked like what Polki said.
Not Polki.
Alan Pope.
Looks anyway like a mix them up with our Polki.
Poppy and Polki.
Poppy looks anything like what he does in real life.
Even though his avatars is his picture is just amazing.
So I apologize to him for not getting the beer and I got them the beer the second night. But anyway, I digress.
If you're thinking of going to one of these shows and you don't know anybody,
one advice piece of advice is, you know, just get on the IRC and beforehand and get involved with the community.
But the people by day, you know, after about five or ten minutes people were coming up chatting,
who are you, where you're coming from, and this crack was 90.
I had really good conversations with John, your own Vivian Parkhouse,
and she and Marks as well, along with Fab and Tom and some of the other guys.
Really, really good night all around.
I did miss a lot of other people, but there you go.
Then the following day we set up.
Everything was cool. Spent the whole day down at the booth.
Didn't get to any talks except one.
Then we had the night house, Saturday night was a fantastic listening to live music.
It was really good being there, singing along to Creative Commons music that you've heard,
both from William Wiers and from Dan.
Fantastic night.
Met a lot of guys.
Chris Finley and Gordon and JWP and Robin Gattling as well, and loads of people.
Good night.
One way, if you're ever in a situation where you need to clear a building real quick,
is all you need to do is say the bar is closing here, but we've got an extension over there
in the bar across the road, I've never seen a building empty as fast.
The following day was a lot quieter there, obviously, and I got in a good few interviews.
Then some of the night we were back at the hotel and it was absolutely shattered.
I forgot to tell you, Saturday morning I arrived down for breakfast.
There was nobody up except this family, husband, wife, daughter type thing,
and the husband had a Debbie and T-shirt on, I think, and the wife had a Firefox T-shirt,
and the daughter was there on breakfast, and the invite from me over to the table,
because you're going to a talk camp, yes you are, so I'm eating breakfast,
and no clue who these people are, and this turns out to be Becky and Philip and their daughter,
who's going to break some hearts when she grows up, that's for sure.
Of Crunchbang fame.
So the developer, I'm sitting there, the developer of Crunchbang,
and the community manager of Crunchbang lane sitting up my breakfast table
was absolutely cool there, and they entirely adopted me for the whole weekend,
brought me in taxis, made sure I waited around for me, and then this Sunday night,
I had gone back to bed and was completely scubed, and I was there with Philip having a pint outside,
and I was like, who's that voice?
You know, we're talking to somebody, this lady who had a child there, I didn't know who she was,
and so on there, talking to her, coming, I know you're a voice from somewhere,
and yeah, the next thing it's from...
Well, it escapes me from the...
from...
the free as a freedom podcast, Chris from the Free No Project,
and so, when I grabbed my microphone, grabbed an interview,
so the next thing Philip goes off, buys me a pint, comes back,
with Dan, Dan Lynch, sit down, do an interview with Dan, goes off,
comes back, gets Nathan from the Open Hardware Project, so he's going off,
getting all these people, bringing me over, and just getting interviews,
and just sitting there, all I had to do was sit there,
so how are you, and who are you, and where are you coming from?
So all of these interviews will be coming up here in HBO,
and I get progressively drunk, drunker, as the interview's gone,
so apologies for that, but big shout outs to them,
if you've never tried crunch-bang, if they're brilliant people,
and thank you very, very much to them,
for, yeah, for putting up with me all weekend.
So, other interviews I got, I put a list on the site,
Paul B, DJ from the H, Alan Cox, Wayne Myers, Addison Monroe,
JWP, Chris Finley, Chris Finley, we missed a train,
actually, and I was talking to Chris, so what are you doing?
And I think, oh, yeah, software freedom days coming up.
Oh, yeah, that's right, interview.
Steve Lee, free software foundation, Tom Hughes,
Philip Becky, AID, Chris, from Fino, Dan, and Nathan,
and various different people.
So, they're all coming up on HPR, you can skip them if you find them boring,
but they're high-farm, quite interesting.
So, one other thing that came up as well, when I was recording
the last HPR show, I was recording it in my brother-in-law's house,
and he's a musician.
So, I explained to him what the HPR was about,
and he decided to record some new theme music for us,
which there's a link in the show notes.
It's www.rulecoastermusic.com,
and he's licensed the CC by SA.
So, if you're interested in having that as theme music,
I sent out an email, and I'll just read that out.
We have moved providers some time ago,
and we need to include an advertisement from our sponsors,
Lunar Pages in the outro.
I have edited all the X episodes that are currently in the queue,
and to have the new outro.
But going forward, I appreciate it.
If you could switch to the new outro,
which can be found at HECK Public Radio,
this theme music outro,
.mono.mp3.
All versions, there are other versions there,
including the original,
and since I sent out this email,
Slick Zero, who did the original,
is going to do a shorter version of the intro,
which is a complaint a lot of people had.
Anyway, back to the email.
The text for the outro is in the file,
HPRoutro.txt, so if you listen to the end of the show,
you'll get an idea of what it is.
And what I like is for a version from every host
and every listener,
with the idea of editing them in together,
and so we can have multiple versions,
with each line read by different people.
So for this, at least, can you submit it in
what we file or flag format,
with the good spaces in between each line for easy editing?
I got this idea from one of the promos that we've had,
where we have various different people doing it,
which will hopefully give people an idea
that we're a community network,
and that there are various different people
from all over the world contributing to it.
Okay, anyway, back to the email.
After recording the HPR and you sign,
oh yeah, this is about my brother-in-law.
So he has done this, he'd appreciate field back.
Obviously, I'm keeping out of this one because he's family,
and no matter what I do, it's going to be wrong.
So please reply back to the mailing list,
give them a listen, and be brutally honest.
Thank you very much.
One thing I will say is that if it's a 50-50 decision,
I would prefer to stay with the current one,
given the amount of brand awareness that we have
and not to use a marketing term.
One other thing is that it would really help
if you provided your show notes with HTML,
because, yeah, it's a lot of work to make the show notes,
but if you can do it that would be great, otherwise, yeah, it's fine.
And we are now officially CC by SA.
So all shows going forward will be CC by SA by default.
So if you have, like I had with Wayne Myers on,
you just say which parts are CC by SA
and which parts are under different license.
Other things that didn't go on this month,
we just let everybody know we do have an org
and an MP3 and a speaks feed.
So if you go to the syndication page,
you'll see links to those.
We've changed the feed to MP3.
I've also updated the contribute page
to include some of the things that I mentioned
in the presentation at Ogcamp.
We're also going to be going to Derbycom,
so you can expect some information about that.
And if there's anybody,
the organizers of Derbycom wants to do an interview,
give me a shout.
And we're doing Ogming to podcasts.
Just one thing I wanted to mention about the presentation,
which the video of which hasn't been released yet on the website,
but I did want to mention some of the information
that I gathered in that might be of interest to you.
So we've been up five years, ten months, two days at the time.
We've got over 800 shows.
That's the amount of shows we have at the time of doing
Ogcamp was 18 days, 23 hours and 52 minutes of continuous play,
which is equivalent to 343 audio CDs.
The average length is 25 minutes, 34 seconds.
It takes up 18.32 gigabytes of MP3 storage alone
and we've sucked down 16 terabytes of bandwidth.
Our monthly downloads, which might be of interest to people,
is 51,255.
And our daily downloads is 1,689, although it varies.
Let's see.
I think other interesting.
We have 124 shows.
Most popular one is Club 2.
Followed by DigGeep, MonsterB, Myself, Phoenix,
and you see the info graphic.
This presentation is available on the website,
link in the show notes, and also on our Google Plus,
that's our Google Plus Picasso page.
So at the time, we had 266 shows.
And then the rest of the presentation basically goes into
who we are and then how you can record a podcast.
And the information from all that,
how you can record a podcast, group editing,
recording over Skype, Linux Outlaws, or DUR.
And that sort of thing are now added to the contribute page,
which was sorely a need of an update.
I still need to do an introduction to audio editing,
but my time is limited.
And there's a lot of stuff to do.
So two other things I want to read out to emails
that I got that came into the list.
One is from Poké.
And the email will be on the show notes to this episode,
which just for your information is on hackerpublicradio.org.
And he's putting out a casting call for a project that 5150
and some other audiobook producers are doing.
People have responded and they're looking for some voice actors.
And they're also looking for sound effects.
So there are four mail rolls, three payment mail rolls,
six adrom just add a drudge in the rolls.
And he wants you to send in,
if you're interested, send a voice sample in
so that they know what to expect.
Another email came in from the Linux News podcast,
which is Hi Fellow Podcasters.
I've just launched a new podcast.
And he goes on the email of this will be in the show.
Its podcast was designed to fill a needed gap
in audio shows covering exclusively Linux Android open source news.
And the podcast aim is to be relevant, accurate, fair, clear,
timely and interesting and concise.
I listened to the first six episodes today
while doing some work on the attic, which is great,
because I got called up on all my podcast listening.
Links to the feed,
the released every Tuesday and Friday.
So it's kind of nice.
There is a little ad at the beginning,
but it's not as intrusive as some others.
And the Twitter feed connections, iTunes and all that good stuff
is in the show notes for this episode.
One last thing was,
some time ago we were looking at
a hobby public radio and hacker public radio,
whether we were going to go to WordPress,
or whatever.
And in that time,
while I was at Outcamp,
I realized that planets must have the ability
to embed an RSS feed.
So it turns out that I embedded our RSS feed
into the hobby public radio website
and turns out all the shows can be there
and we get all the WordPress goodness
while so the commenting,
all the calendar feeds,
all the show, you know,
a web page for every artist
or every host,
history, searching,
image tagging,
all the rest of that good stuff,
you know, all the web 2.0.
Without having to write a line of code
so we can continue to update the WordPress blog
and it means that we would have less functional,
need to maintain less code
on the generic CMS
that the admins use.
So I would like you to have a look
at hobbypublicradio.org
and tell me what you think.
Apologize apologies for the
whatever quality of this audio.
It's very late on Sunday night
and the show needs to be out
in approximately two hours.
You have been listening to
Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday
on day through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by a HPR listener
by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded
at www.BinRef.com
or www.BinRef.com.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution
at binref.com
or binref projects
are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom-private clouds,
go to lunarpages.com
for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis,
today's show is released under
a creative commons,
and it does our license.
