Episode: 140
Title: HPR0140: LPI Certification Part 6 Device Configuration
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0140/hpr0140.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 12:19:01

---

music
Hello and welcome to this episode of Packup of the Radio.
My name is Ken Fellow and this is another in the series on the LPI certification.
Today we will be talking about device configuration.
This is LPI Topic 1.101.6 configuring communication devices.
Candidates should be able to install, configure internal and external communication devices
such as modems, ISD and adapters and DSL switches.
The objective includes verification of compatibility requirements, especially important if a modem
is a win modem, necessary hardware settings for internal devices such as IQ, DMAs and IO ports
and loading and configuring suitable device drivers.
It also includes communication devices and interface configuration requirements such as
connecting a serial port for 1.15.2 kilobits per second and the correct modem settings
for outbound point-point protocol connections.
T-files terms and utilities include slash proc DMA listing the direct memory accessing
channels and use slash procs interrupts listing interrupts and use slash proc IO ports listing
the IO ports and the command set serial which configures serial port access for internal modems.
At the end of this section you should be able to answer all the following questions.
Which communication devices are not generally Linux compatible?
Why is it necessary to use set serial when using an internal modem for PvP?
What is the purpose of a bold range when setting settings for a modem?
How does Linux handle external ISD and terminal adapters?
Which modules exist for using with internal ISD and adapters?
Which files configure point-point protocol over Ethernet?
And how do you activate a DSL connection?
Section 6 task world, point-point protocol connections.
Networks like Ethernet, Framerary, NATM connect a number of computers together and computer
connected to the network can speak to a number of other computers simultaneously over
the same connection.
Point-point connections connect two computers to each other.
Point-point connections are commonly used for connecting to an internet server-versa provider
and people pay their ISP so that they can join a well-connected network.
There are a number of ways of doing this.
First of all, an analog modem.
We phone our ISP on the standard phone and our modem talks to their modem so that our
computer can talk to their computer.
When ISD and terminal adapter, and that talks to terminal adapter on their side, are via
DSL.
The telephone company installs a special line that links directly to the ISD, DSL concentrator
via local telephone equipment.
And ADSL works in the same way, but it's asynchronous meaning you have faster download speeds
than you have upload speeds.
And DSL is ADSL stands for asynchronous digital subscriber line, types of modems, 6.2.
The basic function of modem is to provide digital text communication channel between two
directions.
The point-point protocol PPP uses the modem connection for networking protocols.
Two machines communicate via PPP, each run PPPD, which sends information to the kernel
for the networking process, 6.2.1, PPP, and analog modems.
One of the properties of PPP is that it is a pure-to-peer protocol.
Either or both sides of the communication can request authentication.
Generally, when negotiation and outbound link, the person dialing will not require authentication
and the server, which enters the call, will require authentication.
So, the diagram shows the client talking down through the networking subsystem, talking
to the PPPD, to a modem across a line, up again through a modem, through the PPPD,
through the networking subsystem, and up to the server application.
In order to dial up an internet service provider, an ISP, you need to find a means to supply
the following information.
The modem, which you use, for example, dev slash TTY capital S0, remember that if this
is a win modem, you'll have to load a working module, which may not be possible.
Also remember that for an internal modem, you have to first configure it using Command
Set Serial.
You'll also need to provide a telephone number of your ISP, usually a username and usually
a password.
There are large variety of programs that can be used to set up the PPPP parameters.
For example, K, PPP, or WV dial, a number of distributions provide an interface activation
script, and a IF op space PPP-0 will activate the link.
0.6.2.2, point-point protocol demon call my ISP.
To activate the ISP link using point-point protocol demon directly, you need to modify the file
EDC, PPP, slash peers, slash my ISP, or the name of your ISP.
And this file is consulted when you run PPPD, space call, space, and the name of the file.
For example, the contents of that file reads TTY capital S0, space 19200, space CTRS, CTS,
mixlinus, connect, space, double quotes, chat, space, for slash ETC, for slash PPP, for
slash chat, dash, my ISP, and double quotes.
Next line is user, space user 42, for instance.
The chat script in the file, ETC, PPP, chat, dash, my ISP provides the modem initialization
strings on the details how to dial the ISP's number.
Which you see in there is a board and no carrier, a board and no dial to all the board
and error, et cetera, et cetera, a board and user password and correct.
And these are all strings that will come back that will indicate that an error has occurred
on the line.
Then we have some AT commands, and we see things like, if it's okay, then you apply back
AT or ATDT5555555, which is the only his command I know, his command are all these
AT commands that you see here on the place.
They go back to the early days of the his modems, ETDT stands for at dial tone, it's about
the only one I do know, and underneath that is connect.
So to supply, you use none and password, you either need to enter it in slash ETC, PPP,
chat, dash, secrets, or slash ETC, PPP, slash PAP, dash, secrets, depending on the authentication
list that you use by your ISP.
And you can put an entry in for both if you choose.
Then you end command, PPP, D, space, call, space, my ISP.
The output is added to our log messages, depending on the configuration of your syslog D.
Section 6, step 3, ISD and adapters.
Internal ISD and adapters.
The kernel module that supports most internal ISD and adapters is the HI-S-AX module,
which supports the HI-S-AX, ISD and chipset, manufactured by Siemens, external ISD and adapters.
There are a number of external ISD and adapters, which are available to emulate functions
of the analog modem.
To connect one of these, you usually have to specify the correct initialization string.
This may be one of the following, but the best way to check it is to look in the .inf file
of the Windows drivers disk, if you're in doubt.
One command is ATB30, the other one is AT, Astrics, PPP equals one, Section 6, step 4, DSL.
DSL uses the technique called point-point protocol over Ethernet or PPPOE.
For the DSL to work, for the DSL to work, you need a properly configured Ethernet card.
And then you run the command, PPPD, space, PTY, space, quote, PPPOE, space, and then the PPPOE options,
and single quote, space, and then the PPPD options.
Section 6, step 2, diagnostic tools.
The following tools are useful for our diagnostics.
I've configured shows currently configured interfaces.
If one of the interfaces is PPPP, something or similar, then the PPPP connection is active.
If the PPPP0 is absent, the connection is inactive.
The command root-n, when the PPPP connection is active, it will be a root to the remote
side of the PPPP connection.
Usually, there will be a root to the network on the other side.
It is a common PPPR to have a default route configured to your local network when starting
PPPP.
This situation, PPPP does not override the default route with its own, meaning your
traffic will go out over your local network connection, and not over your point-point
protocol connection.
To diagnose a PPPP connection using ping, the procedure is ping the loop back address,
which is 127.0.0.1, or just go ping space loop back, ping the local side of the PPPP connection,
which you can find out by running the command IF config, and ping the remote side of the
PPPP connection, and then ping the default gateway of the PPPP connection, and if one
of these fails, you have a root-n problem, or a problem with your PPPP connection.
Okay, that's the end of this section.
The assignment is to obtain a modem and a telephone line, and set up a natural network
connection to your own ISP.
Check that you can use browse the web, the web browser such as links are W3M.
Make notes on how you configure the modem.
To note from me outside of the topic of the book, as you all know, I love modem so much,
not.
You need to know about PPPP and all that good stuff, because a lot of the mobile phones
and such UMTS or HSS DPA users act as essentially a modem, and you'll find a lot of these commands
appearing in configuration scripts to get UMTS to something like that working.
Another assignment, if the Linux PPPP or EE Damon, which is PPPP or EED, originally enough,
provides the same functionality as the DSL modem.
You can set up the PPPOE server and connect it using the PPPOE from another computer
in the network.
Diagnosed connection using techniques described in this chapter, and does the server route
packets for you?
The answer to Question 1 is, what you need to be careful about when talking about modems
is the dreaded wind modems, and that also includes a number of USB devices.
Question 2, use the command set serial, is to turn the kernel, what IO address, and IRQ
is used for the modem.
What is Broadway at all about?
It is to set the speed of communication in bits per second.
How does Linux handle an external ISDN terminal adapter, which is, you know by now, it appears
as an external analog modem for the most part.
Question 5, which module exists for use with an internal ISDN adapter?
The answer is high-sax, HISAX, and you have to tell us what particular chip is in use.
And mod files are used to configure PPPOE, and that is usually EGC, PPPP, PPPOE.
And our final question 7, how to activate an ASL connection?
The answer is, of course, PPPD, space PTY, space, single-quote, PPPOE, space, PPPOE options,
single-quote again, space, and then the PPPD options.
Thank you very much for your attention.
That has been another hack on publicly available.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
