Episode: 987
Title: HPR0987: LFNW: Larry Cafiero - the Crunchbang guy
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0987/hpr0987.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 17:00:42

---

So, um, this is David and I'm, we're just leaving Linnick Vest North West and you are.
I'm Larry Caffirum and who are you with?
I'm with the, uh, with CrunchBang Linnick's.
Okay.
There's a, uh, a Debian-based distribution that's, uh, got open box, uh, window manager running
atop, the, uh, Debian-based.
Yeah.
And so, you listen to Hacker Public Radio?
Uh, I do, actually.
I just started, um, just recently and, uh, it's a, it's a great, um, it's a great outlet
for, um, a lot of, uh, interesting topics and, um, interviews and things along those lines,
especially this one.
Yeah, cool.
And then, um, did you listen to the New Year's Eve episodes?
I did.
And, uh, and Philip and Rebecca, uh, Newbro, uh, really, uh, really put on a good, uh, good
interview for, uh, uh, uh, for those shows and it was, uh, phenomenal and, uh, a
core nominal, right?
Yeah.
It's Philip, Newbro, the, uh, the developer of, uh, CrunchBang.
And so, you're a pretty, um, much of a fan CrunchBang, huh?
Oh, yeah.
No, but, uh, it's one of the best distros, uh, around I've, um, I have a, uh, background,
uh, using Fedora, that was my main, um, uh, uh, distro for years and I changed to CrunchBang
about nine months ago and I really like it.
It's very lightweight.
It works across a wide range of, uh, hardware from old to new and, um, uh, it just, it's
very, uh, very stable.
Cool.
CrunchBang, Crunch Fedora.
That's really good.
That's really good.
So, you would suggest, uh, people try out CrunchBang.
Yeah.
I would suggest people to try it.
It's actually not for everybody and it doesn't, uh, it doesn't portray itself to be and
that's by design.
It's actually probably, if you have a couple of years of Linux under your belt, so to speak,
it's probably, uh, a good thing to try.
If you're brand new to Linux, you may want to try something else first just to get your
feet wet, so to speak, but, um, uh, if you've got a couple of years and more of experience
and you want to give, um, something like a window manager or try, which is different
than a desktop environment, uh, a CrunchBang would be the way to go.
Very cool.
And so, um, do you happen to know the, um, name for the white version of CrunchBang?
I'm sorry, the which version?
The white version?
Oh, the white version?
Oh, uh, no.
So, uh, I understand it's called white bang, so, uh, I'm in a little, uh, humor there.
Yeah, as I can't, uh, I can't pronounce myself.
Yes, I can't confirm or deny that, but anyway, yeah, it's, um, again, it's, uh, it's,
it's a good, it's a good distro.
We, I really enjoy using it and I, in fact, I learned a lot since using it, uh, starting
to use it about nine months ago, uh, as opposed to the, uh, six or seven years that I've
been using Linux, uh, before, um, the, the forums are, are particularly, uh, helpful
and, uh, there's a lot of good answers, you know, the wikis are, are pretty good, and
so there's a lot of information there.
And if you do have a question about, uh, um, CrunchBang and go to the forum, they're usually
answered pretty quickly.
Okay, and did you enjoy the fast air this week?
No, I love this, this show, this next to scale, which is a much bigger show, um, this is
probably the best show on the West Coast, and, um, I enjoy coming out, I, again, I drove
up from California and I, I'd, I'd walk to the show to come to it because it's, it's
that good.
So I, I encourage anybody who's never been to Linux Fest Northwest to come next year.
Okay, real good.
Well, nice to meet you and you, and we'll see you next year, Brad, next year, David,
thanks.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio, does our, we are
a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday and on day through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by yourself.
If you ever considered recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it relieves.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicom Computer
Club.
HBR is funded by the Binary Revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are crowd-responsive
by lunar pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released on your creative commons, attribution,
share a lot, be those own license.
