Episode: 822
Title: HPR0822: Vivean Parkhouse about the GiffGaff Community Phone project
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0822/hpr0822.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 03:02:02

---

.
Hello everybody my name is Ken Fallon and we're recording live here at Hacker
Ours, the Hacker Pokémon Radio booth at Oddcamp 11 and I've been joined by Vivian
who's going to talk to us about Giff Gaff, which is an open community phone
project. Explain to us what it was. Giff Gaff is a community phone project which
basically it's a David among Skyglyans in the mobile phone. They're a small
but they're trying to be big on the caring and support side of things. They're
based in UK which is always a good thing. They're picking back some
top of O2 network, so even if you're on a blog you can still use it with the
Giff Gaff sim with an O2 phone. So it's like a virtual mobile network, yeah?
Yeah, that's the word I want to put more.
And it's run on the open source principle sort of.
I'm not sure if it's open source but it's definitely community based.
So in terms of support you could have got three layers of support. The support team
which is quite small and can do with little requests. You've got the community side
of things which if you get the support crew can't deal with it. You put the
question to the community which will do if it wherever possible. They try and
get questions resolved within five minutes of them being asked and most
questions up to 95% of the song within an hour. If it's of a private nature
developing, not developing, going with the account side of things. They have
agents who deal with specifically the account's private nature side of things.
So what makes it different from another network?
The open community is caring. It's more caring than say vote-of-phone or O2
which is kind of globalized away. A large organization.
Small network. The same with the Celtic Spring. They do things called
goody bags and one of the most recent goody bags gives you unlimited
internet. Truly unlimited. No fair usage policy.
We like this. The same is absolutely free to order from giftgaffer.com.
Yes. Comes in a really cool just basically an A4 piece of paper.
Which is forwarded up to make the envelope. Oh, very nice. I know because my partner
had us wherever he's gone who's got giftgaffer in his black rear home.
Okay, cool. All right. Let's wrap it up there. Thank you very much for coming on to
Hacker Public Radio. No worries. Bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, where Hacker Public Radio does
are. We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday
Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by
a HPR listener by yourself. If you ever consider recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
economical and computer cloud. HPR is funded by the binary revolution
at binref.com. All binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a like, lead us our license.
