Episode: 939
Title: HPR0939: Sunday Morning Linux Review: Episode 021
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0939/hpr0939.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 05:18:52

---

Thank you.
Welcome to the Sunday morning Linux review with Matt Anders, Tony Beamus and Mary
Tomage.
This is episode 21 for March 4th, 2012.
This is Tony Beamus.
Matt Anders.
And Mary Tomage.
So, Tony, what's going on over there at the Beamus Household?
Oh man, yesterday was a busy day, although in the evening we went up to this pet store
north of us and we went to look at a dog for my in-laws and while we there my wife decided
she wanted to get a morky.
A morky?
Yeah.
Is it from orc?
Yeah, we were talking about that, we were like, it's like from work in Mindy.
But you're not even old enough to have actually watched that show.
I have.
Life?
While it was on?
You know?
First run?
Yeah, okay.
Although Rob Williams is my wife's favorite actor, so she knows all about the show.
She's watched it on.
Anyway.
So we're up there and we're looking at it and we're there for over three hours while
she tries to decide whether to get it or not.
Obviously, it's not cheap.
And when that was one of the questions, you know, they had a white one and they had a black
one and the white one looked kind of like the runt.
Yeah, it looked not only runty, but if you've ever seen, because it's a fairly long-haired
dog, right?
Not a total long hair, not like drag on the floor long hair, but it's got some length
to it's first.
First short dog, not a full white pea drag on the floor now.
So what you've got to be where, when you get a white dog, when they're eating, that hair
is going to get in their food and they're going to get all stained around their mouth
and they just, they look like crap.
Yeah.
I noticed you got a white deer.
That's enough of that.
Thank you.
It doesn't get stained by my food when I eat.
Oh, man.
Anyway.
Oh, I think I'm going to die.
We had to get a collar for it.
That's okay.
It just popped into my head.
That's all right.
My picture's on the website.
Everybody can see that I have a white deer.
Anyway, continue, continue, Tony.
We got a collar for it and we got the smallest collar they had there and I shrunk it to the
smallest size.
It can go.
It was still slightly too big.
I think it won't come off the dog's head, so I think it's going to do its job, but it
was still.
Well, you know, you can get those little harnesses there.
Yeah.
That's why you get a choke collar.
I want to get the harness just so I can grab it and carry it like I'm going to go
back.
Oh, my God.
I saw that.
I saw that.
I was at a home depot.
And I took pictures of it.
I might still have more of my phone if I do have 70.
We had a dog in like a hand carrier, like it was carrying like a luggage.
What about the dog guys?
Like just hanging?
Yeah.
Oh, my God.
All right.
That's what I need.
It was a shoulder.
It had a strap on over the guy's shoulder and the dog is just hanging there.
That was a purse mask.
No.
No.
Persons don't lick their ass, Mary.
Well, I guess I guess you got a point there.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, man.
It's black and tan.
So that's why I'm going to call it black and tan.
But my wife wouldn't go for that.
So then I want, I propose Guinness.
BT.
Guinness.
That's a good one.
Yeah.
She didn't like that one either.
So we're going to call it Murphy.
Murphy makes a stout.
Murphy.
I'm Murphy stout.
And they make oil soap.
Yeah.
But so it's.
And it isn't Irish.
Yeah.
So that's where we're going to go with Murphy.
All right.
All right.
That sounds good.
Oh, my goodness.
So there's something going on next Saturday, isn't it, Mary?
Oh, yeah.
Where we record, we record at Gaudier Academy in Inkster, Michigan.
And it's one of my clients.
But next week they're having their charity auction.
Its theme is, less stop Chinatown.
It's going to be a Chinese rat.
Auction.
Do you know what a Chinese auction is?
Sometimes they call it a tailman raffle.
Oh, I was just thinking everything in there comes from China.
No, actually a lot of it probably does.
But no, it's kind of nifty.
You buy tickets.
Like the tickets are a dollar a piece.
And then the stuff you want you go around and you put your tickets in there.
So if you really want something, you put a lot of tickets in there.
Then when they draw the winner of that item, you're more likely to win.
Oh, I see.
Okay.
So that's what they're having.
Oh.
And then there's also going to be a live auction.
And there is a Chinese buffet from five to seven o'clock in the morning.
And it's not that expensive, so.
And it's catered by one of the local Chinese restaurants.
So what you need to do is come to the log meeting.
The maturity trade log meeting.
Oh, yeah.
It's like we're after the log meeting and then we all have dinner at the Chinese auction.
At the Chinese auction, yeah.
Oh, good idea.
But you can't start eating till five, which is a little late for us after the log meeting.
Yeah, we usually eat at what?
3.30?
Yeah.
Well, if we could get away with it.
Yeah.
Well, if we could bring some granola bars and some chips or something.
Yeah.
To get them through.
Yeah.
Then we're going to start recording late, too.
Oh, great.
Maybe I don't know.
We'll have to think about that.
We'll have to try to do that.
Yeah.
Put the big sign on the door.
Live mics, hot mics.
Do not enter.
Right.
So.
So, yep.
God, your Academy, Inc.
Sir Michigan.
Thanks, guys.
Last stop in Chinatown.
Oh, my wife runs it, too.
Oh, and my wife also said to say that if you do show up at the auction and mention that
you heard it on the Sunday morning Linux review, you will get one ticket for free.
Ooh.
Oh.
Which is worth a dollar.
Wow.
You can get a whole item, then, if you're, if your things chosen just because you listened
to us.
That's your good.
Well, you, Mary.
What?
You got going on.
Uh, let's see.
I'm getting ready for the month of March.
I think that's it.
Oh, like a line.
Working a lot.
Working a lot.
Oh, yeah.
Because you have a couple of people out at your work that you're, like, filling in for?
Well, yeah.
We're short handed, so.
Been pretty busy.
So, it's bought it for me.
All right.
Let's light this thing.
Hoshi.
All right.
Let's go.
You got kernel stuff, don't you?
I do have kernel news.
In the kernel news, we have a release candidate that was released on Sunday, March 4th, 2012
at 2.57 AM UTC.
Hey, that's today.
It is.
I love when Linus waits so late.
It's a great thing for my life.
And he announced the release of kernel 3.3-RC6.
He says about it, there is nothing much to say about this RC.
It really is all small fixes and cleanups.
In fact, it's been calm enough that this might be the last RC.
But we'll see how the upcoming week goes.
So, the main line is now 3.3-RC6.
Stable updates.
On Monday, the 27th of February, 2012, at 2045 UTC, Greg Crow Hartman announced the release of kernel 3.2.8.
There were 9 files changed, 269 files inserted, and 129 files deleted.
This update only fixed one bug, a floating point issue with the new x86 processors running
in 32-bit mode.
And then on Thursday, March 1st, 2012, at 038 UTC, Greg Crow Hartman announced the release of kernel 3.0.2.3.
There were 85 files changed, 161 files inserted, 612 files deleted.
And then on Thursday, March 1st, again, at 039 UTC, Greg Crow Hartman announced the release of kernel 3.2.9.
Now on Thursday, remember on Monday, we had 3.2.8.
Now on Thursday, we've got 3.2.9.
There were 98 files changed, 891 files inserted, and 533 files deleted.
My kernel code of the week is not really kernel-related, except for the fact that it's from Linus Torvalds.
So anything Linus says is kernel-related in my opinion.
If you follow him on Google Plus, you'll know that he had a rant about OpenSusa,
and which got him like over 5,000 plus ones, so then he posted a picture of his cat and had this to say.
If I can get 4,000 upvotes for a rant on security people, just imagine what a picture of a cat could do.
I'll get millions of plus ones. Isn't that how these things work? Linus Torvalds.
And he got over 12,000 plus ones, by the way, for his cat.
And including one from you, right?
Yes, I did plus one the cat, and I did not plus one the Susa rant.
And that's all for the kernel news.
Right.
You know, I'm looking at the timestamps on these.
Those are pretty early in the morning.
Well, that's UTC.
Yeah.
So what it is is that you have to take the California time when it was posted, and then add 8 hours.
Oh, OK. I was wondering where Greg was at.
That's why he's in California.
That's why he's in California.
But then I realized, oh yeah, where he is located, it's not midnight.
Correct.
Yeah.
But you know, I do want to make a small correction from what we've said in the past that Linus lives in California.
And he doesn't, he no longer lives in California.
Right.
He lives in Washington state.
Yeah.
So.
Or I think it's Oregon.
Is it Oregon?
Yeah.
And I have to look through my emails again.
One of our users, or our listeners.
Oh, yeah.
And we appreciate that now.
Yeah, we got some feedback.
So you're saying he's slowly migrating up toward Washington state?
I don't know.
That's his way to take over the world.
That's right.
All right.
All right.
So Tony, what's going on with the distributions this week?
We have quite a few releases.
I was surprised.
And it goes off the page for...
Yeah, that's the first time I've ever seen that happen on this draw.
I had to go back through the links on the side to find which ones I had to put on here.
Which starting with WADOS release 5.
It's a Ubuntu release distribution featuring a clean and simple interface customized LXDE desktop.
Except on our recording laptop, it runs...
It looks like a Postage stamp in the middle of the monitor.
That's right.
Yeah.
So that is what we're using for our recording laptop.
And I like it.
I think it's for being a lightweight distribution.
I think it's pretty good.
The problem we're having is we cannot get X to work right on it.
And it's the way it recognizes the monitor.
It does not drive the monitor.
It's not the video card.
And it's something with X because with Ubuntu, what 9.4, it worked great.
And everything passed that if we tried to install.
It doesn't matter if it's Ubuntu or I tried five different OSs on there and nothing worked.
So I have to do like a mod.
Did you try Puppy?
I did not try Puppy.
I tried Crocs.
No, not Crocs.
I'm sorry.
So you say Crocs.
I tried Arch and Ubuntu, Debian, a couple different versions of Ubuntu.
And another one I can't think of right now.
It was another LXDE distro.
But so it's some kitchen.
Can't you put X?
Can't you put in like 9.4 on there?
Force it to generate an Xorg.conf file.
And then save that Xorg.conf file and use that Xorg.conf file in the newer version.
New version of what?
Yes, but the problem is the driver that 9.4 uses is normal.
So if I tell it to use that driver, then it doesn't work.
So they're mad.
How about if we hook the external monitor?
Does it work if you hook an external monitor?
Yes.
That's why I know for certain that it's not the video card that it's the monitor.
That is the monitor is the detector.
Oh yeah.
And moving away.
I think this is going to be a new point anyways because we're going to be moving on to a different recording solution.
Anyway, so in the next distro we have this network security toolkit 2.16.0.
A fedora based live DVD providing easy access to a large number of open source network security applications.
I haven't used it, but I think network testing and security is pretty cool.
Anyways, we have Suci Linux and in price 11, service pack 2 has been released.
It's a commercial enterprise Linux.
That was on the 29th.
Also on the 29th, Minix 3.2.0.
Minix is open source operating system using a tiny micro kernel, but it's not Linux.
And that's really what Linus studied on was Minix, wasn't it?
Yes, I think so.
Yes, and the fact that Minix was closed source at the time is what inspired him to actually write Linux.
And here we have it years later, it's here on DistroWatch.
And then we have freeNAS 8.0.4.
FreeNAS is a network attached storage distro based on free BSD.
I've heard a lot of good things about that, but I have yet to start using it.
You know, I tried to use it a couple of years ago, and it just, it was easier for me at the time in freeNAS development to just build up a Samba server from scratch on a Debian machine.
I think if all you're going to use a Samba, then I agree.
But I think there's a lot of other tools available in freeNAS.
So maybe I'll take another look.
Yeah, we have Plop Linux 4.2.0.
It's a live CD.
Plop it on your computer.
Or does the Alka Celtser company?
Plop it on your computer.
Fizz, Fizz.
Oh, what really?
Am I dating myself there?
Yes.
I think so.
Plop it on your computer.
Plop it on your computer.
It has Fluxbox and Nome 3 for the desktop desktop.
But it's designed to rescue data from a damaged system,
backup and restore operating systems, and automate common tasks.
That sounds pretty interesting, because I, you know, disaster recovery is always interesting to me.
To be able to do that kind of makes you stand out where other people can't do it.
So I think I'm going to take a look at that, even though it sounds funny.
I think that that's interesting.
I'll put you in an acronym for something.
Right.
Yeah, because I haven't looked that in.
I can read for that.
I want to know what you find out.
Sure.
Backtrack 5, R2 has also been released.
No, I have a question.
They're calling that a distribution release.
Right?
Yes.
But it's all an R2 release.
R2, not RC.
Release candidate instead of release 2.
R2 release 2.
I don't get it.
It's probably like the second major update 2.
Oh, instead of doing like a .2, they say R2.
Now I am.
Yep.
So we've talked about backtrack in the past.
Yeah.
Penetration testing.
Yes.
Yeah.
All right.
And then Linux and scratch or LFS 7.1 was released.
Yeah.
It's a book of instruction, which explains why I could never get it into my CD-ROM drive.
I'm looking at that plop Linux.
Yeah.
First thing is they up on the second of this month.
They have a permission remover app that was released on it.
A permission remover app.
Yeah.
So like if you boot it, then you can remove the permissions on the PC I'm assuming.
Permissions for what?
I would say anything.
It's just file, it's just file system.
Right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's for recovering .all the file system.
Yes.
Okay.
But I guess you'd have to remove permissions to do that perhaps.
Yeah, you'd have to have, well, you'd have to have read access to all file spill recover.
So that'd be good then.
Okay.
Linux deep in 11.12.1 was released.
And it's one of the most active community distributions from China.
It was released on leap year or leap day.
Anyway, so Chinese Linux distros.
Is that possible?
I mean, no, I'm just joking.
Yeah.
Because it's all about freedom and doing good things and China.
There's a couple of lives out.
What's that one called red something?
Yeah, red Linux.
Yeah, I know what you're talking about.
But yeah, that was the big Chinese distro file all the time.
I think it's who puts it out.
The government puts it out.
Then I would say it's probably right with all sorts of things.
All sorts of bad words.
We have Oracle Linux 5.8, which is red hat.
Red hat.
Go from the sources of red hat.
They just, they changed the number.
Did you see that?
No.
Unless, unless they're still on the, on the, on the red hat 5.8 as their upstream on that.
Is that what they're saying there?
You think?
Yeah, that's what it says.
Oh, maybe I should read it.
Why is that speaking?
Yeah.
All right.
Well, that's what we have for the distros this week.
There's quite a few.
Yeah, there was.
And I think the last couple of shows I've been giving my little update is as far as how I've
been progressing with, with, uh, Crux.
Oh, Mary's Crux Fiasco.
I, I, I, I heard I think of it as my Crux saga.
Adventure?
It's journey.
It's, it's, Crux is not a destination.
I prefer Fiasco.
Well, but the, well, I guess the good news is is that I did get, uh, I, I was successful
in compiling the kernel and I've, I've, you actually, the compilation completed?
Yes.
It did.
Does it boot?
Um, it starts to boot.
And then it, and then it goes into a kernel panic.
So, uh, which was, um, kind of disappointing, but, uh, part of my situation is, is I'm putting
it on a partition that is, um, well, it's not like the first part.
It's just not.
And you're not using Milo.
And I, yeah, and, and it uses Milo, I think, as it's primary, although I think you can install
Grub.
So I went and, so I'm thinking, um, what I'm going to do this weekend, this is the last thing
I'm going to do is I'm going to just wipe that whole computer, I'm just going to create, um, one
or two partitions and just install it there and let it boot from Milo and just see if I can
pass this because it can't find the, and I made all the changes to the, uh, FS tab and
all the things that are noted.
Um, it just can't find the root file system, which I think is kind of unusual because I was
pretty good.
Well, I assure you updated FS tab correctly.
I double checked.
Yep.
I, as a matter of fact, when you wait partition, but when you wait partition the drive out, it gets a little
hinky, especially if your FS, FS tab is using UIDs.
Is it using UIDs?
Um, no, I've got, I put in there, um, you know, dev, SDA, eight, which is what is being
used here.
Yeah.
That's an FS tab.
But what I'm going to do is, as I said, I'm going to wipe it all off and just do the stock.
Yeah, and that'll make, that'll make that whole, a whole lot simpler because it won't be out there
on SD8.
Because if I'm not successful this week, then I'm just going to throw up my hand and just say,
I just didn't work out for me.
I'm not an experienced Linux user.
I know that's what it says.
I know.
I'll be disappointed.
After this saga, I think I might even have problems with it.
So I'm never going to get anywhere near it.
Yes.
Maybe there was a reason it was on 100 and now off the list.
Well, but then, you know, again, it's, it's just not for the faint hearted.
But I will say this, though, and I'm going to give Krux credit is that it really, I never compiled a kernel before this.
And now I have done it three times and the third time wasn't the charm.
But it certainly gave me greater insight into how those things, how it's put together.
I haven't done it for a long time.
The last time I've had to do it, I think it was about three, maybe three, four years ago,
to get some wireless drivers in that I needed.
So yeah.
So anyway, so yeah, so tell me that's my update.
Well, I do have one more distribution update.
I did install Zoren on a laptop of mine at home, and it's a, it's a distribution out of Ireland,
which I guess is appropriate for this month since St. Patrick's Day is on the 17th.
Yeah, but we've got the real Irish distribution mint with the mint guns.
Yeah, well, I took, it was minty badness on my other laptop.
Because you broke it, you broke it.
But you broke it.
No, I think there were things.
You know, no, no.
You broke it by shuffling your config files from different distributions into the same home directory.
Oh, yeah, you're right.
I did do that.
I was trying to take a shortcut.
Yeah, my system got whacked for it.
So you're right.
I did.
I did.
I can pass.
It was not the minty goodness.
I'm going to try to do a segue and immediate right segue.
Go back to Zoren.
So it's a desktop that's designed to look or to resemble Windows 7.
And I think it would be, I think it would be good for people.
If you've got a friend who's got an older, maybe not an older laptop,
but they've got an older version of Windows and you want to get them off that crap.
I won't show them in there, Matt.
Wack in the microphone with my hat.
That's right.
But anyway, if you want to get a friend off Windows,
I think that would be a great distro to put them on.
Because it's going to be familiar.
I don't throw them in straight devian with no multimedia codec and open box.
Yeah, you will go through the pain.
Anyway, so, yes, I got that.
And I did burn, not Dream Linux, but there's a multimedia Linux distro
that I didn't burn to DVD, but I haven't had a chance to play around with yet.
So it's Zoren based on them?
It's based on Ubuntu.
Another one of those Ubuntu pictures.
Although the Minty goodness does start with the Ubuntu base.
Yeah.
Well, exactly.
So what are you talking about over there?
Wow.
Because when they went, when you know when Mint started with that Linux Mint devian edition,
I was hoping I was like, oh my gosh, this is the wonderfulness.
I'm about to move on to a real distribution as a base, but no.
Well, I think it's because, you know, with Ubuntu, there's just tons of packages.
Oh, and there's not tons of packages in devian.
Is that what you're trying to say?
No, that's not what I'm trying to say.
But I think, you know, as far as the community support, I mean, you've got it.
Oh, and Debbie doesn't have an active community that supports it.
No, that's all I'm trying to say.
Okay, I get your point.
All right, I get your point.
I get your point.
But anyway, yes.
So I did have problems with Mint.
You do because you broke Mint.
No, let me just say that.
Okay, I'm going to stop talking about it.
It's probably the same.
So when you were trying to get rid of Mint and then upgrade your, or update your laptop,
what happened with that?
How did it work out for you, right?
Well, I had to completely reinstall because I could not, I just...
You know, you don't have to reinstall.
If you go in the lot, then just into your home directory and delete the .kde file,
then it'll rebuild those and you'll be good.
Right, but I think there was something else going on.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
I think it manually, manually upgraded to kde480, wasn't it?
Oh, yeah, there was that.
Thanks for helping me out with that.
See, I've already just got rid of it from my memory.
But yeah, I had...
I was, you know, again, cutting edge to the point where I bleed sometimes,
but I had kde480 on there.
I had a number of things going on and I will make an attempt to try to fix it.
But there's a point at which I say, you know, I've put three hours into this
and I'm no further along or a very little progress.
I then just wipe it off and reinstall Kubuntu.
And that's where I am right now.
And I'm happy.
Happy.
Yeah, I have an nkde490 is going to be coming out in August.
I'm going to be really happy then.
Okay.
I've got my little kde490.
It's going to be no easier.
All right.
All right.
Well, we do have a couple...
or the top five of the week for the distros.
Oh, do share.
Number five is open suci at 1474.
And that's a surprise.
They're still on the list.
But I wonder if that really...
That though.
Yeah.
But they're still on the top five.
And I've...
I envision them going way down after Linus's win.
Actually, you know, the whole bad press is good press thing.
I wonder if I don't know if that helped them a little bit.
Keep mine up there.
Well, from what he said, it sounds like they were implementing the distal like...
Yeah.
Where you have to...
Oh, my God.
It was just stupid, stupid stuff, I mean.
Requiring...
And so Windows-like.
Requiring the administrator password to change the time.
I mean, that's a...
On a multi-user system?
Come on.
What if I'm a user on the system?
And I'm in Caracas.
And what if you're a user on the system?
And you're in...
And you're in Portland, Oregon.
Now, you can't set it to your local time.
And I can't set it to my local time unless we both have the route.
That, come on.
Well, yeah.
And a multi-user system.
So, you either can...
You either can have your settings apply across the group or apply to yourself.
So, it sounds to me like they were defaulting to maybe the group.
And then you have...
I don't know, it just sounds like Susan Security was...
Yeah.
...over just getting a little wacky.
Well, then...
And having a regular user not be able to install a printer?
Yeah, that's what I don't agree with.
Yeah, that was...
Come on.
Filling.
Yeah.
Anyway, number four...
Yeah, that's right.
That's right.
That's right.
Part of it.
No.
1518.
Number three is Fedora with 2286.
Janet, you turned it up.
It is.
Ubuntu is at 2454.
And number one with Mint.
I love the Minty goodness at 4039.
Is it 40?
Is this the first time we've broken 40?
No, no.
It's actually kind of a low for them.
They're normally up like 4142.
Oh, all right.
I guess my memory's failing me this morning.
Yeah, and just a one quick comment.
I think we talked about this earlier.
In looking at the list, I think Zenchal was at the bottom of the list.
Not for the last seven days, but for six months.
And we were talking about that briefly.
And that's a very nice server distribution.
Again, it's based on Ubuntu.
Right, but where does it come in if you do the last seven days, is it?
Oh, it's probably a little higher, perhaps, but the default six months.
And last seven days of RARA is the last one.
I checked that out earlier.
And that was a distribution based on the EPC.
Remember that Aces EPC from a couple of years ago?
Yeah.
No.
You bought one for me for 50 bucks.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Anyway, yeah, RARA is based on,
is based on the EPC or is for that particular computer.
So I guess it's...
I don't know if I may get it anymore.
Yeah, where is it?
Do you see it?
I don't even see it on the last seven days.
I'm going back to six months to see.
It's on the last...
Yeah.
Well, I did a control app on the last seven days.
And it's over on the latest distributions.
They must have had some type of a...
They must have had some type of a...
March 2nd.
Yeah, on March 2nd they had a...
They must have had some type of a...
Development release.
But how come it's down on our list?
I don't know.
Just development.
Well, it is development.
Oh.
But it still should have been on the top list of...
It should have been on the top list of...
It should have been on the pre-filtered list,
because that goes back to $2.29 with something.
Yeah, so.
Yeah.
So I just...
Wait a minute.
It says that...
There are two mentions of it.
Let's see.
Well.
Number 61.
Last seven days.
Oh, okay.
Thanks.
Eagle Eye over there.
Thank you very much, Matt.
No, it's called Control-F.
I might keep going.
Hold the eagle and you hit Eye.
Sorry.
Eagle and Eye.
Eagle Eye.
You know what I mean?
You know what I mean?
Eagle Eye.
Oh, yeah.
Give me an Eagle Eye.
All right.
Okay.
We're moving on.
That was bad.
My daughter is King of the puns.
And bad puns to boot.
And that was bad.
I agree.
It was so bad I didn't get it.
All right.
All right.
So I knew it was this week, don't we?
Oh, yes.
We do have some news this week.
And after you know it, you're news.
We'd be at the convention scene.
We do.
All right.
In the news this week, we have
Keep the Arm Architecture Open.
Back in December, when the fecal matter really hit the fan over
UEIF, unified extensible firmware interface, commonly known as
Secure Boot, or as is better known the open source community restricted boot,
Microsoft apparently backpedaled and changed the specification
for the Windows 8 logo certification, stating that
the user must be able to control and disable the Secure Boot feature on any
computer that is not based on arm.
This is still not acceptable situation because the arm processor is the
de facto standard on small portable devices, eG phones, tablets, and
netbooks.
If these devices ship with Windows 8 on them, they will be locked into only
Windows 8.
In the future, these are going to become more and more the computers people are
using as the desktop market becomes obsolete.
The need is now for the word to get out about this to the general public.
We need to let them know that their freedom to a device they purchased,
however, their freedom to use a device they purchased, however they want to,
is being usurped.
You can help this in a fun and entertaining way.
The FSF free software foundation is running a restricted boot
webcomic contest and choose must be submitted by March 17th by emailing
campaigns at FSF.org.
See the complete details on their website, link in the show notes.
You should also sign the petition while you're motivated, link in the show notes.
Do be aware that this is going to sign you up to receive a newsletter on
restricted boot from the FSF, though, if you do sign that petition.
Which is a little obnoxious, but then, now, nevermind.
Moving on to my next story.
The fastest growing desktop, Linux, up 64% in nine months.
Even the biggest Linux fanboy would have to admit that at best,
Linux desktop market share is in the very low single digits.
First Ubuntu, then Mint, have had very good success on the desktop.
Still, Linux has yet to break out into the mainstream on the desktop.
This could be changing, however, if you look at the numbers generated by net market share
over the last nine months, Linux has beat Windows 7 in growth.
Linux has been putting up a fight for the desktop, but has been hanging just under
1% market share for many years now.
That's right.
In terms of total market share, even OS X kicks our ass.
There is hope, however, as if you look at the last nine months,
Linux desktop use has grown about 64% from 0.9 to 1.48 market share.
Over the same time period, Windows 7 has only grown 37%.
The number of Linux desktop installations is obviously currently fairly small,
but if our growth continues on this pace, we will overtake Windows in about 59 years.
We are forced to be reckoned with.
Only 59 years ago, come on.
We are confident that it will happen.
Onto my next story.
As your goes down, as your goes down.
But will it be for the count?
This is only open-source related in the fact that it is what they should have been
running in the first place.
If you're human every once in a while, you're going to screw the pooch.
But if you're Microsoft, this sort of thing seems to plague you.
Let's face it, sometimes they do release something that is usable,
like Windows 2008 R2 and Windows 7 Service Pack 1.
Then sometimes they release something that just makes you go WTF, what were you thinking?
Like Windows ME and Windows Vista.
But every so often, they blow it so spectacularly that you have to wonder why anyone
would ever even consider using them for Michigan critical applications.
Michigan critical applications?
Oh, Michigan, sorry.
Michigan critical applications.
That might be right in Michigan.
At other places.
As an example, the LSE, the London Stock Exchange, went down for over six hours back in September of 2008.
Here is a link to the whole story.
And that will be in the show notes.
If you don't want that, here are the Cliffs Notes version.
They had a boatload of servers running Windows 2003.
On top of that, they had a proprietary software suite called TradeElec running.
This was a custom set of applications written in csharp and .net.
Now, wait for the good part.
The back-end databases were running Microsoft SQL Server 2000.
Wow.
And this is from the practical technology website.
Sorry, Microsoft.
.net framework is simply incapable of performing this kind of work.
And SQL Server 2000, or any version of SQL Server, really can't possibly handle the words,
worlds, number three stock exchanges, transaction load on a consistent basis.
Well, they have done it again.
The Azure platform went down for over eight hours with full functionality,
not restored for about 36 hours, according to sources.
So you didn't have access to anything?
No.
Well, for eight hours, it was down.
And then parts of it came back up and took, according to the sources I read,
it took about 36 hours to get full functionality back.
Everywhere in the world.
So you may be wondering what actually caused this whole thing to blow up?
Well, this is Microsoft and closed source.
So we will most likely never know for sure.
It appears to have been a simple mistake.
Leapier.
Who needs Leapier?
It only comes around every four years.
This is what Bill Lang, corporate VP server and cloud had to say on the Windows Azure team blog.
Yesterday, February 28, 2012, at 5.45pm, Pacific Standard Time,
Windows Azure operations became aware of an issue, impacting the compute service in a number of regions.
Yet, those that had already rolled over into February 29.
The issue was quickly triage, and it was determined to be caused by a software bug, surprise, surprise.
While final root cause analysis is in progress, and we'll never tell you what it is,
these are, I'm interjecting my own comments in there.
You'll have to sort them out.
This issue appears to be due to a time calculation that was incorrect for the leap year.
Once we discovered the issue, we immediately took steps to protect customer services
that were already up and running and began creating a fix for the issue.
The fix was successfully deployed to most of the Windows Azure subregions,
and we restored Windows Azure service availability for the majority of our customers and services by 257am Pacific Standard Time.
February 29.
However, some subregions and customers are still experiencing issues,
and as a result of these issues, they may be experiencing a loss of application functionality.
Yeah, that went on for almost 36 hours.
How is it even possible for this to happen?
Well, let me tell you what I think.
Two few eyes on the code.
If this had been open source software, I doubt that this could have happened,
and if it did, the fix would be in way sooner than Microsoft was able to implement it.
This type of beginner programming mistake is inexcusable.
Anybody out there who even considers using Azure for mission critical operations after this ought to lose their job.
Oh, yeah.
Crazy, man. Crazy.
And when you're talking cloud computing, they're like the number two platform out there for cloud computing.
It's a number one.
Is it an EC2? Amazon's EC2?
Yeah.
Which is Linux.
So, on my next story, assault on the Fifth Amendment won't get its day in court.
Here in the US, we have a little thing called the Constitution,
and within that quaint little document, we have a section commonly referred to as the Bill of Rights.
Part of the Fifth Amendment, which is in the section referred to as the Bill of Rights, says this,
Nur shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself,
which means you're guaranteed the right against self-incrimination.
They can't force you to testify against yourself.
Well, Judge Robert Blackburn of the 10th US Circuit Court of Appeals does not think this appeal,
this applies to encrypted hard drives.
Back in January, he issued an order to force a defendant to decrypt her laptop for authorities.
The encrypted Toshiba laptop was seized by federal authorities from Ramona for Kosoo back in 2010 with valid court warrants.
The case involves a large mortgage fraud scheme.
The judge's order demanded that she decrypt the laptop by the end of February.
He also refused to stay his order to allow the defendant to appeal his ruling.
The whole question became newt this week as authorities were able to get into the laptop without the assistance of the defendant.
It is believed that her co-defendant, Scott Wattcott, gave a list of possible passwords to the authorities and one of these worked.
A copy of the material had been delivered to the Defendants of Ferturny, Philip DeWa, on Wednesday, February 29th.
All of this came to a head a week after another court ruled that a criminal defendant cannot be forced to decrypt a hard drive.
This was the first appellate court to take this stance. The Supreme Court has never heard a case on this matter.
This all transpired in the 11th US Circuit Court of Appeals, so Judge Blackburn would not be bound by their decision anyway as he is in the 10th Circuit.
Maybe the judge's decision from the 11th Circuit will be appealed so this could still get its day in front of the Supreme Court.
I did hear a little bit about that and they said that there are some cases that ask you to decrypt your hard drive.
Sometimes it is considered self-incriminating, sometimes it isn't, that is why they are trying to make a distinction.
But if you are decrypting it and it is against you, wouldn't that be...
The only way would not be self-incrimination in my opinion is if they gave you some type of a guarantee that anything they found on that laptop would not be used against you in a court of law.
Which is I think the deal, because her co-defendant, that Scott Wakakai, even though they have different last names, is her husband.
Okay.
So I think they cut him some kind of a deal saying that we will only use this against your wife.
What you are talking about there is potential evidence versus statements that she would make that might incriminate herself.
It doesn't matter, they are still forcing you to give that evidence to them.
If they are able to crack it on their own...
Then yeah, it is like a locked safe, a combination safe, they can't force you to open a combination safe.
They have to crack it and that is the established law from way back.
Then that would be the same thing.
Exactly.
Well, and there is another thing there in the U.S. where your wife is not really allowed to testify against you and your husband is not really allowed to testify against the wife.
So how does that work, that he gave access to this information that they are not going to use.
Well, not the law, they are not forced, maybe it is.
Maybe it is not compelled, they can't compel you to testify against you.
Right, exactly.
Because they consider it a confidentiality thing because it is like a priest kind of a thing.
Like you tell your wife, your wife or your husband things that you wouldn't tell a friend or an acquaintance.
Yeah, that is.
Well, on to my final story.
The real numbers for Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization Rev may be skewed.
The Enterprise Server Virtualization Market has basically been owned by three players, VMware, Microsoft and Citrix, using three hypervisors, V-Sphere, Hyper-V and Zen.
The result is that we all forget about the Rev platform.
Even though Rev3 was released back in January, we talked about that on the show in a kind of sideways manner as we were making fun of them for requiring IE7 to run the web-based management.
Yeah, I remember that.
Even though they have introduced some real big-time features like live migration, support for up to 160 cores and two terabytes of RAM,
they have only been able to achieve a very small market share less than 2% as a primary virtualization platform using the V-index numbers.
The V-index number is most likely skewed as it only takes into account what businesses are claiming as their primary or first virtualization solution.
According to Red Hat, 80% of rev deployments are being run to complement an existing VMware solution.
This is due to companies getting their feet wet by virtualizing their not-so-mission critical Windows servers on VMware.
Then, after they have become comfortable with the concept of virtualization, they start migrating their more mission-critical Linux servers to the virtual environment of Rev.
So, in conclusion, those numbers putting Rev in fourth place may be a little skewed.
It would appear that the total number of Rev deployments out there could be much higher.
Yeah?
Yeah, it could be.
And that's the news I have.
It's pretty good stuff.
Yeah, thanks, Matt. We appreciate the research you do each week to support that.
I found one thing this week, and then we can go on to all Mary's. Mary has lots of stuff to talk about today.
Anyway.
This is something I heard about that's kind of outside of Linux a little bit, but it's going to affect us all.
And that's that do not track feature within the things.
And Google has been caught in web browsers.
I haven't read anything about this. I don't know what you're talking about.
Well, basically, it's supposed to be a setting in the web browser.
You say, do not track me, and then Google doesn't track you.
Or Yahoo or Bing or...
Right, but they have to say, okay, we're not going to do it.
We're not going to do it.
And most web browsers right now have that disabled, and you have to go in and manually say,
I want this to be enabled to do not track me.
Well, one of the browsers that have that on as default is Safari, Apple Safari browser.
It's on by default.
It's on by default, so it's supposed to be more secure for users, although there's ways to go around it,
and they found that Google has been doing that.
So Google has really taken a lot of...
Google, do not evil?
I mean, they need to generate revenue.
They need to sustain their...
Yeah, to feed the machine.
Well, any company needs to be able to make profit in order to sustain an ongoing concern.
And if they do that by targeting ads, yeah, and I like their target ads, you know,
because maybe I did a search for some stuff, and I didn't find what I was looking for,
and then all of a sudden I get a Google lead, which happened to me last week.
I was searching for air and water type cases, kind of like the one we use here for our...
What do we call it, Recording Studio in a Box?
But I didn't find what I was looking for, and then I got some Google ads
that popped up the next day about different types, and the case I was looking for was in there.
It was more money than I wanted to spend, but it was there.
Well, in your right, that's not a bad thing, but I think that if you indicate you don't want to be tracked, then that's kind of...
Then that's why when you don't want to be tracked, fire up tour.
Yeah, well, and then the idea behind that is if you're trying to hide things,
then people are going to start looking at trying to see what you're doing also.
Anyway, so that's the old news. The new news is that the White House has come together,
and they're putting together some guidelines for privacy.
And they're asking for the web browser...
No, they want the web browser makers to come together and agree on a set of standards,
and that if you're going to do this, then...
Wait, wait!
Does that more government regulation?
Not as government regulation if they get the market involved.
If you get the market involved, and you do it the right way and say,
hey, we really need to do this, and then the market forces themselves come together and say,
this is the way it needs to be done.
Yeah, exactly.
So they're asking Google, Microsoft and Apple, and then the other web browsers.
I'm sure Firefox and Opera, and then there's a couple other in there.
That's the big one.
For that one-eighth of a percent of users are actually used now.
Yeah, and it's funny, and it's Recon, which I think is the reconstituted conquer,
is a default on my laptop or something.
I got to go and change that. I keep forgetting.
Oh, that's the KDE thing.
Yeah, that sweet KDE goodness.
I hear the rough of you. Keep going.
No, that's right. So that's the new thing is that the White House has put together a couple of things about that,
and then asking for the web browsers to come in and agree to these and create standards.
Then some people are asking for a lot to be passed.
Boo! Right.
Well, and some people think the reason they're asking for the lottery passes,
because then the FTC can have teeth to be able to do something about it.
But even the FTC are being expanded in the first place practically.
Who? Federal Trade Commission.
Yes, or they're there to be whacked way back on what they're allowed to do.
But let's save that for all fair discussion, Mary.
But it's a here, it says in the article,
even if Congress approves privacy legislation,
the Federal Trade Commission will have the ability to enforce compliance with the code of conduct
to be developed by the Commerce Department,
or with advertising industries, guidelines,
that companies would adopt voluntarily.
See, but then that gets all mucky.
It's going to get mucky.
We get the government in Congress involved in making laws,
and that's just going to get mucky.
But even if they go voluntarily,
look what's happened to copyright.
Fair use is gone.
Look at that guy recently.
No, it was all over the news recently.
That guy, he put that video up on YouTube,
where he was making a wild salad.
He was walking through like a field and saying,
okay, we can pick, this is called mellow,
and we can put the, you want the younger mellow leaves,
and he was walking through picking all this different stuff,
and you heard birds singing in the background.
Okay.
Well, Rumble Fish said...
Rumble Fish.
Rumble Fish is a big copyright holder for a lot of music.
Okay.
And they said...
Those birds are singing something that's copyrighted?
That's what they said.
They said they don't want copyright on the background music.
So he filed a complaint saying,
no, there's no background music.
It's just nature.
It's wild birds singing in the background.
They denied his thing and took his video down.
Yes, because guess what, people?
YouTube doesn't review it.
When you dispute a claim like that,
YouTube doesn't review it.
The person that said you were infringing them reviews it.
Oh.
Oh, my God.
Now granted, in this circumstance,
the Rumble Fish CEO did the right thing.
Okay.
When he found out about...
Oh, that was all excited, and then...
When he found out about it,
he immediately did an on-the-web press conference
that he answered questions until 2-30 in the morning
about saying, look, one of our reviewers just made a mistake.
We're not out there trying to whack everybody in their uncle.
He just made a mistake.
We'll try not to do it in the future,
but we've lately been very inundated with these claims
and we made a mistake.
As soon as we discovered them,
as soon as the mistake was brought to our attention,
when the fecal matter hit the fan over it,
we put it back up and restored all his rights to the video.
That fan is getting pretty bad.
It is.
That fan's getting pretty bad.
But yeah.
So it's really YouTube.
YouTube has passed in the bucket this,
and what it brings to light now is that
there's a whole industry out there now
that are placing false copyright claims on stuff.
They're telling YouTube,
I own this copyright and it infringes me
because now that gives them three options, okay?
The first option, the person who claimed copyright to it,
they can eliminate the soundtrack,
so it's just the video with no sound,
which actually happened to my daughter.
For a school project, she had to,
they had to make these videos.
She did a video about what happened in Kent State
back in the 60s, remember,
where the kids go.
And she put together this whole big video of it
and she used the Buffalo Springfield songs
for what it's worth underneath it.
And her audio got chopped, okay?
Because somebody complained.
Because part of the project was she had to put it on YouTube.
Right.
And the copyright holder, whoever owns the copyright to...
They found that video?
They do it automatically.
They do it all though.
It's some scripts.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's some scripts that just run in the background.
And then what happens is,
Google scripts run.
Which is Google.
YouTube scripts run.
And then it emails.
It says, hey, we think this might infringe your stuff
and sends that content,
that holder of an email saying, check this out.
So then technically,
they're supposed to come and check it out,
but a lot of times they don't.
And the nefarious stuff,
the nefarious stuff is people doing it saying they have,
they own the content when they don't really own the content.
Because the three options they get are to remove the soundtrack,
remove the video completely,
or monetize it.
They're allowed to put ads in it,
for money.
Oh, that's right.
Yeah, these nefarious characters are claiming all this stuff
in this content.
It's not really theirs.
Okay.
And then throwing ads in it.
Okay.
Geez.
Anyway, I'm done ranting about YouTube.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you for that rant.
And so that's the end of your news?
That was the end of my news before.
And then Tony had his little thing
which led into my YouTube rant.
All right.
Well, you know, this is the first Sunday of the month,
so it's time for the Linux convention scene for March.
Yes.
And I've got a few that I'm going to just kind of quickly run
through here on March 13th and 14th in Berlin,
one of my favorite cities in Germany.
Have you ever been there?
Yes.
Oh, I want to go so bad I've never been there.
It's fantastic.
Have you been there since the wall came down?
No.
But they had, when the wall was up, of course,
when I was last there, which spiced it's a whole lamb.
And we too that I asked about the wall.
They had kind of this attitude about them
because, you know, you think about their ceremony.
Yeah, they were trapped.
Kind of this, not a fatalistic,
but they had this kind of,
lived for today kind of thing.
Yeah.
It's really great.
It's a great city, great city, great music scene.
Anyway, DroidCon 2012 is going to be there
at the Urania in Berlin.
And interestingly enough, Microsoft is listed
as a platinum sponsor.
And of course, we know they're going to be standing
at the door with their bucket out to call it.
They're a platinum sponsor because they make more money off
of Android than they do Windows Phone 7.
Yeah, that's right.
Anyway, the next one.
The next one is the Chemnitzer Linux Tag,
17th and 18th of March.
Linux Tag.
Which means day in German.
That's right.
And Chemnitzer Germany, another one in Germany.
We also have, by the way,
to that same Patrick's Day in Ireland and elsewhere.
We also have the Asia BSDCon in Tokyo,
March 22nd through 25th.
We also have, and by the way,
the Asia BSD Conference is a conference
for users and developers of BSD-based systems,
but you didn't know that.
I maybe could have figured it out from the name.
That's right.
The CE Linux Forum in Japan.
Actually, it's the CE Linux Forum
at the Japan Technical Jamboree March 23rd in Tokyo.
What is CE Linux?
Well, Windows CE.
I think that might be related.
Is it consumer electronics?
Yeah, I think that's it.
That must be it.
I just read this stuff.
I don't research it or anything.
Actually, it was in Japan Technical Jamboree.
That's a form-wide technical meeting of the CE
workgroup of the Linux Foundation.
There you go.
So it is consumer electronics, probably embedded.
And it's going to be in Japanese.
So brush up.
Arigato.
All right.
I'm moving on to the next one.
That was my little musical interview.
We're going to...
You lay off topic.
All right. I got about two more minutes left here.
The next one is Abel Combs, March 24th in Tempe, Arizona.
That's the annual Arizona Business Liberty Experience Conference,
which brings together technology experts and business leaders
to discuss how open technologies can help transform Arizona businesses.
And that's going to be in Tempe at the University Advanced Technology.
We also have Libra Planet 2012, March 24th in 25th,
at the University of Massachusetts in Boston.
That's part of the Libra Planet conference series.
And it's a series of weekend talks by some very influential people,
including Richard Stallman.
I don't know if you're mad, but he kind of got a little teary eyed there.
Oh, yeah.
And then also, but this year, Raspberry Pi developer,
Abe and Upton, and several other key lawyers
behind the GNUGPL and other free software rights things.
I'm using Tony's for things.
We'll be there.
So anyway, I thought that was kind of good.
And then finally, next to finally,
we've got the Polymetal Open Source software conference
down in Columbia, South Carolina.
That's March 27th, 29th, 2012.
And that's a pretty good...
That's a pretty good...
That's a pretty good...
By the way, the links to all these are going to be in the show notes.
But they've got a world-class land of speakers
for technologists, business, government, IT leaders, and educators.
And then the very last one, it's not really a conference per se,
but it's a document-freedom day, March 28th.
This is a global day for document liberation.
It's a day which is dedicated to promote the importance of open document formats
and open standards in general.
So create all your documents that day.
It's at the week, actually, the 28th.
I'm going to send them all to my co-workers
and ODP for that.
Hey, it's open document day.
Well, if they're running...
Actually, if they're running Microsoft Office 2010,
it opens the open formats now.
All right.
That's good.
It can actually save into an open format, too.
All right.
So that's the Linux Convention Scene for March.
You know, I'd like to add one.
Because there's actually one that you...
But I miss.
It's definitely miss, yeah.
I can't believe it.
Is that the one in Chicago?
No, it's Northeast Linux Fest.
Yeah.
It's in the 17th.
And Worcester Mass.
Yeah.
Which is just outside of...
Isn't Worcester...
No, we did this last one.
Worcester is about an hour south-east or something.
Yeah, it's...
It's...
It's off-west, I mean.
It's off-west, I mean.
40 miles, I think, outside of box.
Well, in traffic and northeast, it's about an hour.
You're absolutely right.
I can't believe I missed that because we talked about it last week,
and I did.
I apologize.
All right.
All right.
You don't need to apologize.
Well, no.
Yes, you didn't marry me.
You couldn't have that.
But anyway, so that's a convention scene for this month.
And then I got a couple other little things.
You know, this past week, we had...
It was a very momentous day on March 1st,
because as you know, Google's controversial...
New privacy policy.
That's right.
It went into a fact.
So, you know, I think in the interest of trying to consolidate
and remove legalese and make it easier for people to understand,
Google, of course, undertook this vast, vast task.
That's what they would like you to believe is that they did it for that reason.
They were forced to do it by the SEC.
It was...
Oh!
Right!
Okay.
It was regulation.
Because they had over 60 different privacy policies.
They did.
I mean, it was kind of crazy.
But certainly, that should help clarify it, I think.
In my webbing across the internet...
You were webbing?
My webbing on the internet.
On the internet.
Well, I went to e-week, actually.
And they had a series of things, you know,
because in some ways, people...
Some people don't want to have Google handling all your stuff.
And so, there was...
There was an interesting...
Technical term stuff.
Yeah.
Oh, your stuff.
Yes, technical term for things.
I don't know.
But anyway.
All right.
Go over that log.
Go over that log.
In the interest of time.
But they had some things that you could do in order to reduce the impact of Google's privacy policy change.
And, you know, for example, one of them, they said,
they said, well, while Google gets a billion search hits daily.
Yeah.
And a good person that has were married, Googling, kernel panic help, and rocks.
All right.
I would admit to it, press last week.
It's not the only search engine available.
You can go to Microsoft's Bing or Yahoo, which is powered by Bing.
So, well, if you're going to be doing that, then you've got Bing or Bing.
That's right.
So, your options are Bing or Bing.
So, anyway.
But another thing that they said that users don't want to keep Google from combining their web history with the data that they have about users.
There's a way for you to stop them from combining your web history
and kind of creating that little dossier.
So, that means Mary won't be getting any more of those ARP ads?
ARP, yeah.
I guess not.
I'll have to go directly to the site.
They also suggested, too, that all buying, I believe it is, are buying.
A buying.
There's no L.
Yeah, there is no L in there.
That's right.
Anyway, they make something called protected search, which users can download.
So, that Google.com searches are processed through sort of a proxy.
And Google can't tie them together and tie them back to the searcher.
Well, of course, if you're logged into Google account, they're going to be logging that anyways.
Yeah, that's true.
But it'll not be logged into your Google account while you're doing it.
So, but the clearest way to avoid Google's privacy policy is to avoid Google all together.
I think you can do that.
Good luck.
Do you guys ever try that browsing in Cognito or in private browsing?
No, because I really don't care.
Yeah.
I mean, I know Chrome and IE7 or IE9 has that available.
I've heard about it, but I haven't really tried it.
Yeah.
That's what I'm thinking all that does is turns off cookies.
But I'm not sure.
I don't know anything.
Something in the browser where somebody picks up the browser is not going to see your history.
Well, because a lot of times now they're not even doing it with cookies anymore.
They're just doing it all server-side and logging your unique browser header.
Because the browser header tells them the machine name and everything.
Oh, right.
Okay, that makes sense.
Yeah.
So, anyway, and then I think did you already talk about the...
We did.
We mentioned it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, what did you mention?
There's a big rant on OpenSusa.
I'm going to read...
Tell us how you really feel.
Yeah.
Tell us how you really feel, Linus.
I'm going to read his rant.
And it's...
This is all from Linus Torvalds.
I gave OpenSusa a try because it worked so well at install time on the MacBook Air.
But I have to say, I've had enough.
There is no way in hell.
I can honestly suggest that to anybody else anymore.
I first spent weeks arguing on Bugzilla that the security policy of requiring the root
password for changing the time zone and adding a new wireless network was moronic and wrong.
I think the wireless network thing finally did get fixed, but the time zone never did.
It still asks for the admin password.
And today, Daniella calls me from school because she can't add the school printer without
the admin password.
Whoever more on thought that it's a good security to require the root password for every
thing like this is mentally diseased.
Or running Windows Vista.
Yeah.
It's just wacky, wacky stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah, that is.
That's over the top.
I mean, especially, something that's inane is just adding a printer.
Yeah, printer or the wireless.
Yeah, that's horrible.
Yeah.
So...
And spring...
I don't know where that came from.
Yeah, that's a new word.
And actually, speaking of hardware and computers and all that, did you guys see that ResBerry
Pi went on sale this past week?
Oh, yeah.
It will be promptly sold out in minutes.
Sold out in minutes and crashed both websites that it was for sale on.
Wow.
Yeah, that was...
It might be a little popular.
Yeah, I think so.
It sounds to me like they're going to be back in stock in about a month.
Yeah.
Well, because when you're making a production run like that, you just don't know how things
are going to go and you don't want to wind up with, you know, 10 million of these things.
They shouldn't have had people cranking those things out.
Well...
They shouldn't have taken pre-orders.
And that would have given them an idea.
Like, they did for that...
Yeah.
They did for that new Linux tablet that's going to run straight up Linux with the KDE...
I forget the KDE interface.
It's not the actual total full-blown KDE, but it's some type of a KDE interface on it.
Oh, yeah.
And they did pre-orders on that.
And they actually got so many pre-orders.
They had to shut the pre-orders down.
Like, we just can't get enough.
So we're about to stop taking pre-orders.
Wow.
Okay.
Well, that's good.
Yeah.
That really is.
Yeah.
There were several comments about that Raspberry Pi release.
Of course, we've been commenting about it ourselves over the last few weeks.
The other thing, too.
I don't know if you saw this, but this is from the anthropology department, but from the archaeology.
I don't know.
Well, it could be archaeology.
But, apparently, fossils now show that huge penguins once roamed New Zealand.
And I think scientists have reconstructed the penguin from these fossils.
And they gave it a name.
Actually, they gave it a name that was like Karuku, I believe it was.
So I'm waiting for the Linux distribution Karuku to come out.
And they said that the scientists said that the bird's elongated bill may have been useful
in catching swift prey and poking out windows.
Oh, wait.
I am.
I am.
I am.
And this large body size may likely have helped it swim along your distances and dive deeper than modern day penguins.
So I thought that was pretty interesting.
Yeah, I figured it was about a foot taller than today's penguins.
All right.
And did you see where that name Karuku comes from?
It's Maori, which is the native tongue of the Native New Zealand.
And it means a diver who comes back with food.
Oh, food.
That's right.
That's what we'll be thinking about very shortly here.
Yeah.
So I thought that was a, I saw that and I thought, boy, there's some jokes that we can put with that.
So.
And I think those are all the, all the little bits and bobs I've got.
I have no widget of the week, by the way.
I haven't had time.
Likely story.
You weren't willing to devote the time is what you mean to say.
Yeah.
I'm in the 3A.
I haven't gotten up and looked for one.
Oh, but I will tell you.
And you saw it before the show today and I fired up my laptop.
I got that nice splash thing.
Oh, yeah.
And steam punk.
Mary's gone steam punk.
Yeah, it looks pretty cool.
It does look cool.
It is.
I believe it's available at either.
I'll look it up.
It'll be in the show notes that I'll get to you.
Tony, but it's either KDE theme or KDE apps.org.
And you can get it for Linux.
You can get it distribution neutral or you can get it for Kubuntu.
So.
And that's it for me.
All right.
Yeah.
So all I have.
So Tony, do we have any listener feedback this week?
We do.
We've got a couple of things.
We have one person emailed in telling us how or commenting about how Canada isn't free.
Oh, yeah.
I know that's all about what Matt was saying.
I went off on my Canada isn't free.
But that's not really what he was talking about.
He was explaining something else.
And I don't have it in front of me, Tony.
What do you have in front of you exactly what he said?
Yeah.
Because before hopping on Canada for wanting additional government powers to see this is me reading
without reading it.
I'll be going to episode two.
That was it.
That was it.
It's not that he was writing thing about me saying Canada is not free.
It was me saying that Canada is really locking down what they're doing.
What you're able to do on different things on the internet.
Which is true.
That's what they're doing.
And they're not a free country.
I'm sorry that you live in a non-free country, but you do.
And he went on to talk, and this was chatter, by the way, right?
Yeah, chatter.
And he went on to talk about how this is what they're doing is very similar to what the US is doing with Patriot Act.
Right.
And in my response back to him too, I said, I'm not a fan of the Patriot Act.
The Patriot Act is horrible legislation that was a knee-jerk reaction to a horrible incident that happened to the US.
I agree.
I absolutely agree with you.
I agree.
Oh, wow.
Look at that one down.
And it was.
And the problem with stuff like that is now we have it.
Now it's trying to get rid of it.
Well, here's the thing.
I think in the Patriot Act, there was a renewal.
I mean, it was a renewal.
They do.
And it's been renewed every time.
That's what happens.
Once you have it, then try and get rid of it.
Yeah.
It's a government.
It's a government.
Any government.
It's just, it's there.
Yeah, whether it's a power, it becomes entrenched, yeah.
Yeah.
But then on to Scott, I think his name is Dowdall.
Scott Dowdall.
He also emailed us to explain the Red Hat release cycle, which I never really understood.
And I really appreciate that.
Thanks a lot, Scott.
Yeah, he says how was it for Ralph 3, 3.0, 3.9.
You know, they've had the, even 4 cycle, you know, they had the 7 years.
Oh, wait.
Right.
He explained how it's a 10-year release cycle.
So even though 6-0 is out, they're still having a release cycle for the 5-series.
So 5.8 is a new release, and it will be released even though 6.0, whatever is already out.
Right.
And that's the way it works.
And that's how they do their long-term support for 10 years.
So I appreciate the information.
Yeah.
All right.
Thanks, Matt.
So that's, I think that's all the listener feedback, right?
Actually, we had one more thing.
Yeah, let me go back to the show notes and look at this.
What's his name?
That dude emailed us.
Again?
Yeah.
And it's about his attitude.
His handle.
Yeah, and he's asking about how his pie catcher on Android is not working with our show.
It's giving him an error in this time.
And I think last time I'd asked him what that error was.
And either there was a miscommunication or a problem with my email or something.
But I never got that email.
And now he's, or that the error.
But now we've got the error.
Oh, and Mary has an Android phone we can test with.
Oh, excellent.
So we're going to start working on that and see how hers is.
And hopefully we can get that.
Does he tell you exactly which podcaster he's using?
Yeah, he's using dog catcher.
He's using dog catcher.
So Mary, you'll have to install dog catcher.
And then he says how.
Because you're dealing with a Android phone.
Tony's got a Windows phone.
And if we can't figure this out ourselves, maybe if somebody out there knows the fix,
it's the error is description.
URO is valid.
But doesn't look like a valid RSS feed.
org.apache.harmony.xml.
X4 path, parser, blah, blah, blah.
And the rest is in our, in the, at the end of the show, 20.
So check it out if we don't get it figured out.
I've seen, I've seen errors like that pop up just in, well, I want to see just in general,
the podcast program that's in Linux, KDE.
Just to make sure that he's capturing the right URO.
Yeah, we've got, we actually have three separate RSS feeds on our show.
We have a main RSS feed.
I'll give you the five bucks, Mary.
Okay.
That's, that's been recorded on there.
Probably, it also the insinuation that I've achieved.
Did you catch that intonation in my voice?
Right.
As I say, we have three RSS feeds.
One's the main show.
And that'll catch even if we do updates or other posts.
Like a blog, posting or whatever.
Right.
And then we have two other RSS feeds.
One's for the MP3, or what iTunes uses.
We have the MP3 for freedom haters.
Yeah.
And then we have the odd for freedom lovers.
For freedom lovers.
All right.
All right.
I think that's it.
Well, you know, a leap year.
We had the extra day in February.
And I was trying to think of a way to commemorate that.
And for music this week, it's going to be a gamble.
Oh, mistaken.
Yeah.
So I'm not going to say here.
Just listen to it.
And if you want to know what it is,
look up on the show notes.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
Everybody work well.
Call me my grandma.
I'll call you guys.
Hey, llegue.
Good luck.
Hey, baby.
Get what you're doing.
I can't thank you for doing this.
It's already been cured really well.
Who's sick
It's supposed to be.
Right?
All right.
Come on, baby.
Darling, here.
Who's sick
Come on, baby.
I love you.
Day and night
But I can't sleep, I just have this problem
I can't sleep, I just have this problem
I don't know where I'm supposed to stay
I don't know where I'm supposed to stay
I don't know where I'm supposed to stay
I don't know where I'm supposed to stay
I don't know where I'm supposed to stay
I don't know where I'm supposed to stay
I don't know where I'm supposed to stay
I don't know where I'm supposed to stay
I don't know where I'm supposed to stay
I don't know where I'm supposed to stay
I don't know where I'm supposed to stay
I don't know where I'm supposed to stay
I don't know where I'm supposed to stay
Like why you have a gun again
That's why you take off your gun
I just want you to crush the flagged
I just want you to crush the flagged
Since I'm 1776, I want you to finish records
The night is pushing somebody else's dream
Forget made of this shopping cart
In the wrong fucking direction
Since 1970s it's only due to the track
It's ended night is pushing somebody else's dream
Forget made of this shopping cart
In the wrong fucking direction
Forget made of this shopping cart
In the wrong fucking direction
Forget made of this shopping cart
In the wrong fucking direction
Forget made of this shopping cart
In the wrong fucking direction
Forget made of this shopping cart
In the wrong fucking direction
Forget made of this shopping cart
In the wrong fucking direction
Forget made of this shopping cart
Forget made of this shopping cart
In the wrong fucking direction
Forget made of this shopping cart
This is... oh...
So we're trying to close the show out now?
Well, we're going into the music we close the show out!
That's right!
Yeah, so you've been listening to the sunny morning
We'll end the video with Tony Beamless
Matt Enders
And Mary Tommach
Have a good week
See you next week
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
or Techier Public Radio does our
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday on day through Friday
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener by yourself
If you ever consider recording a podcast
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dark pound
and the economical and computer cloud
HPR is funded by the binary revolution
at binref.com
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages
From shared hosting to custom private clouds
go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs
On list otherwise stasis
Today's show is released on the
Creative Commons
Attribution
Share a like
Feed us our license
