Episode: 166
Title: HPR0166: 10 Minute Mail
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0166/hpr0166.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 12:38:03

---

So
I welcome to Hacker Public Radio.
This is Clot 2 and I found a really cool web service some time ago that I've been using
practically every day ever since I found it.
And I thought I might pass this along.
I guess in a way this is just kind of an extended tip.
It's not a super detailed and complicated episode, but I hope you'll find it handy as
handy as I have.
So you know how when you're going to a site of some sort and they make you register for
whatever it is.
Typically, they will ask you for your name and your birthday and your address and your
phone number, your email address.
Well all the other stuff is really easy to fake if that's what you're into, which I typically
am.
You can just put in whatever name, usually whatever address, you know, just kind of don't
give them really any of the information that you know they don't even need.
Well interestingly, half the time if you think about it, most of these sites don't even
need your email address.
What are they going to do with it?
Unless it's a service concerning email, like it's a mailing list or something that's going
to send you updates or newsletters that you actually care about, although I can't think
of a place that I would actually care that much about to get newsletters from them other
than a mailing list.
So a lot of times what you need to do is just, you know, have an email address to put
in there and most of us have more than one email address and you probably have what you
would consider a throw away email address, the junk email address.
I do this, it's convenient, but the thing about junk email addresses is that even a junk
email address becomes almost unmanageable after you've plugged it into a couple of sites.
And yes, you can go and register forget another junk email address and just kind of keep
going through them.
But what's the point?
The easier way to do it is to go to 10minutemail.com and that is 1-0-minutemail.com 10minutemail.com
is something that some brilliant guy set up or girl, I'm not really sure, but some brilliant
person set up and they, it's a really cool site, there's not, it's been around for
a little while.
It is not ad supported that I can tell I've never seen an ad on there.
It is, they do take donations and the idea is that you get an email address, completely
random email address, for 10 minutes.
So all you do is you go to 10minutemail.com and you'll feel linked about the middle of
the bottom of the page, get my 10-minute mail address, no.
And it shows you what your email address is.
This month it is something like member 573036901 at nybella.com, but sometimes it's totally
different.
It's something like HarryArmpits.com or DerillaTree.com, just whatever, you know, just like random
domain names and you can use that email address, you can copy it and paste it into whatever
service you're signing up for and you have that email address for 10 minutes.
So if it's one of those sites where they're going to send you a confirmation email to make
sure that you're human, as long as they do it within 10 minutes, you're good to go.
If they don't do it within 10 minutes, there's a button on 10-minute mail, you can click
it and it will give you 10 more minutes.
So ideally and typically you'll find that when you're signing up for a service, they
do.
They try to email you the little stupid automated confirmation thing really, really promptly
because they want you to not forget about their stupid impulse site that you're signing
up for and they want you on their site, you know, as soon as possible.
So usually that works out.
So what you do is you keep, you know, you refreshes on its own, but I usually refresh the
page anyway, you know, wait for the confirmation email, click on whatever link they've sent
you and now you're on and you're good to go.
And typically when you're signing in, it's, you know, a separate username, not your email
address.
So you don't have to remember this big long obscure email address and you're in, you're
you're on and you've not given out any kind of personal information whatsoever.
So it's a really good service.
There's also now, and if I recall correctly, this is a fairly recent development, there's
a function to actually reply to an email.
So if it's something that, for whatever reason you have to reply to or, you know, for whatever
reason you have to make a reply, then they do have that functionality now built in.
And it's 10 minutes and then it goes away and you never have to worry about it again.
To check that out, it's 10minutemail.com.
Thanks for listening.
Thank you for listening to Hack with Public Radio, HPR is sponsored by Carol.net, so head
on over to C-A-R-O dot-N-C for all of us here.
Thanks for listening to Hack with Public Radio, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol, HPR
is sponsored by Carol, HPR is sponsored by Carol
