Episode: 774
Title: HPR0774: Full Circle Podcast: Part Two, Recording and Editing the Podcast
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0774/hpr0774.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 02:12:08

---

The Full Circle Podcast on Hacker Public Radio.
This episode, editing the Full Circle Podcast, Part 2, recording.
Hello World. And welcome to our show on Hacker Public Radio.
This is our extra irregular short form show to complement the main Full Circle Podcast.
Be prepared for a healthy dose of British sarcasm.
The Full Circle Podcast is the companion to Full Circle magazine, the independent magazine for the Ubuntu community.
Find us at fullcirclemagazine.org forward slash podcast.
Editing the Full Circle Podcast, Part 2, recording.
The kit at my end, in podcast central, consists of the following.
I use a Beringer C1 USB Cartward mic, which gives me that lovely BBC Radio 4 quality.
It plugs directly into the USB port on the laptop and draws its phantom power from there.
I have this on a semi-sprung mic stand. Actually, it's not a mic stand. It's my old Angle Poise lamp, which I customised.
This is clamped to the window ledge, not the desk. That way, I don't transmit noise and vibration through the desk, up into the mic stand into the mic.
The Angle Poise means it's also fully adjustable for position.
Most importantly, I have a pop filter in front of the mic to catch those breathy, sibilance and consonants.
Spike the audio waveform and distort the sound. Since I work very close to the mic, this is essential.
My pop filter is homemade, from coat hanger wire and the foot of a pair of nylon tights stretched over it.
I didn't tell them in the shop what I wanted the tights for.
The pop filter clamps to the mic stand with mini clamps, so I can fully adjust the position.
My recording station is the Dell 6400 laptop. As this is audio only and not video editing, a dual core with 2GB of memory works just fine.
We currently record the panel segments of the podcast every two weeks. The day and time varies according to when we can all get together.
As we are geographically spread, the panel segments have to be recorded using voice over IP.
Until we find a more reliable alternative, that means Skype with Skype call recorder running in the background.
In sequence, I launch Skype call recorder, launch and sign into Skype, and start the conference call.
Call recorder kicks in and starts recording medium high quality octfiles in 16 kHz mono audio.
For episode 8, we all recorded simultaneously, so I could splice together the three recordings to get better audio quality, which partially worked.
The recording quality on Skype can be extremely variable. Not only can Skype itself be fairly poor, but the participants broadband connection, ISP throttling and the individual recording setup all impact on sound.
Dropout and latency is my enemy. Even when we tried to synchronize the recordings,
the latency crept in through the duration of call and everything went out of sync.
I usually take pot luck and resume myself to fixing what I need to in the edit.
As a footnote, while we're recording, I'm on the lookout for a quirky but relevant episode title, take them from the on air comments.
Once we've all signed out and finished the conference call, I then scooped together all of the recording files into one folder ready for editing.
And that's another episode all done.
The full circle podcast will be back soon on Hacker Public Radio. I'm Robin Kathleen, good bye for now.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
PR is sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over to C-A-R-O dot-N-C for all of those meetings.
