Episode: 817
Title: HPR0817: Installing Linux and Windows 7 to a USB Hard Drive
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0817/hpr0817.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 02:59:49

---

Hello there, my name is OkonDK, and today on HBR I'm going to talk about installing
an operating system to an external USB hard drive.
I have a Dell Mini 10V network with a 16GB solid state drive.
It's great for most things, but I'm the kind of guy who always does too much with it.
Recently, I've needed to use it as my main work PC, while my desktop is in disposed.
I've needed more than 16GB for my system, so I investigate running from an external
USB hard drive.
It works wonderfully, and has also given me the chance to do a bit of distro hopping.
I partitioned by 500GB external drive to give myself a 100GB OS partition.
You don't need to use your entire external drive.
Most stock systems won't exceed 10GB, 100GB should give you more than enough room for
apps and your data.
I generally use Ubuntu, and it's installed always great for this type of install.
Follow the install wizard as usual, and select manual partitioning.
Click your new partition, and click change.
Selecting your preferred file system, checking the format box, and selecting the mount point
as root.
Next select the location of the bootloader as the MBR of the external drive, not the MBR
of the local drive or the first partition.
This will prevent you from messing up your primary bootloader.
What you need to do after installation is to set the BIOS to boot from the external
drive.
If you have trouble with booting from the external drive, or you prefer not to have to change
your BIOS every time, just boot back into a primary OS and run the command update dash
grub and as root.
It should find the new OS on the external drive and update your local grub menu with an
option to boot to it.
You can even move between PCs with this drive, as the Linux hardware detection is very
robust.
The only problem you might have is if you need a proprietary graphics driver, in which
case you only need to install it and reboot.
It is also possible to run Windows 7 externally, but it is not made as easy.
You'll need an existing Windows 7 install to run a script, which uses the Windows deployment
tools to flash the initial setup onto the drive.
Once booted, it will set up the system according to your hardware.
If you wanted to move between machines with this drive, you need to run a command which
resets the setup before you shut down and move the drive.
One issue is that of the page file, which is the equivalent of swap space on Linux.
Doing anything on Windows on my netbook slows to a crawl without a page file, and Windows
can't use a USB drive for it.
At first I tried reformiting my swap partition on the local drive to NTFS, which seemed to
work, and I could set up a swap file on that partition for my Linux system.
However, in the end, I just got sick of how sluggish Windows is on the network hardware.
I have not tried the developer release of Windows 8 in this fashion yet, but from what
I've seen, I doubt I'd get any benefit over using a VM.
I hope this has been interesting to you, and that it might encourage you to do a bit
of distro helping or alpha testing yourself.
I'll note the relevant links on the show notes, along with ways to contact me, but very
quickly.
OrconDK is spelled AUKNDK.
My email is OrconDK at OrconDK.com.
My Twitter and Identical accounts are both OrconDK, and on Google class, you'll find my profile
at gplus.to slash orconDK.
Finally, my blog is www.orconDK.com.
This is my first HBR episode, but I have ideas for a few more.
Let me know what you think.
You have been listening to HackerPublic Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
HackerPublic Radio was founded by the Digital.Pound and New Phenomenical and Computer
Club.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com, or binref projects are crowd-responsive
by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released on the creative commons, attribution,
share and like.
