Episode: 810
Title: HPR0810: Hello HPR!
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0810/hpr0810.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 02:52:42

---

Hello, and welcome to another episode of Packer Public Radio.
Well, turn off that radio, turn that off.
This is Joe Wakumata, and I'm glad to have you here with me.
I'm a new voice on the block. I'm an include on the block.
You know, I've been meaning to contribute to this podcast for a while.
And I actually had the beginnings of an episode recorded for you back in January.
But unfortunately, things kind of got me down in life,
and I was unable to finish that for you.
So, you know, I'm going to commit myself to getting involved here with the podcast.
And instead of doing a topical podcast episode for my first ever episode,
I think I'm just going to give an introduction, because I got to get used to talking to you all there, microphone.
Now, before I do that, I do need to apologize for the audio quality of my recording device.
I, at this moment, do not have anything better than this, like, $10 digital voice recorder.
So, I sure hope this turns out all right, and I sure hope that the background noise isn't overwhelming.
It is a very rainy, very rainy Saturday night as the remnants of the hurricane flies through here in DC.
And my, actually, I'm lucky. I just left. It's in the middle. It's a wall.
So, it's not raining too bad. So, I'm not too concerned about sage or anything.
I'm talking to you while I can mute. I'm going back down to the college.
That the game might journey anyway, so I'm going to stop rambling.
So, how did I get involved with computers? How did Joe get involved with computers?
Well, it goes all the way back to the early 90s.
And when it got my first computer, it was an IBM PS2286.
I used that thing until 2001, believe it or not.
And let's see what were some of the specifications on that guy.
I think, yes, it had a 20 megabyte hard drive.
On it was Windows 3.1.
Yes, Windows 3.1. Barely fit on that thing.
And because of that, I had to store lots of my programs and file them to lobby drive.
I'm glad those days are over.
And let's see what else was in that machine. We had one megabyte of RAM.
I upgraded this video card to an ISA card with 512 gigabytes of RAM, I believe.
I sort of hope I'm right on that.
And see, what is the system clock?
Maybe 16 megahertz, it's been a while.
You might want to double check that if you would remember the trivia on that.
But it was a pretty unslow processor.
Well, I ended that thing until 2001.
And after that, I got myself a laptop.
Now, I don't remember which one it was. There was an HP at the time.
And it served me well.
I ran Windows XP on there for a while.
I believe, yes, it was Windows XP.
It worked pretty well.
And here's layer, fast forward to 2007.
So I'm repairing a computer for someone.
And I stumbled across a Kinoptix bootable Linux disk.
Which was amazing.
When I got this disk, I was blown away.
Because I had to use it in a phase second.
But it was different.
So Taylor, to what I've been trying to do all these years, that wasn't bloated.
An operating system, this operating system, this Linux operating system.
When it booted, it went through screens of information telling me what was going wrong.
What was going on while it was booting up.
I had a command line that I quickly learned the basic utilities.
And it was powerful.
So for a month.
Yes, you won't believe it for a month.
I continued to use on my laptop a bootable Linux CD.
And it all my basic schoolwork on it.
It worked really well.
So, through Slackware on there.
Which was very educational and short-lived.
But nonetheless, I'm really glad I learned.
It's been a whole weekend learning things like how to use them.
I create my xorg.com file.
And there's the whole other thing, you know, appalling software and whatnot.
But that was all short-lived.
After Slackware, I jumped over to...
Oh, gosh, I'm going to have to think, Fedora.
That's right, Fedora.
I went and studied abroad for a semester.
So I popped Fedora on my laptop.
After that, we tried out Debian.
It was all right.
But I didn't like how the packages were...
They didn't feel like they were as fresh as they should be.
Whenever to Ubuntu, which was a little bloated for me.
And I really didn't like all the release like old.
But I used Ubuntu for a couple more years.
Well, fast forward to today.
I'm actually an Arch Linux user now.
A year ago, I happened to...
A year ago, I heard the Linux link texture ranking about Arch Linux.
And since that, I've just used Arch Linux.
I have to say, it's worked wonderfully for me.
I've never found a distribution that really has matched my needs and wants.
And a distribution that's never worked so well for me.
I mean, it's been fabulous.
I don't think I'm going to take the time right now to go into that.
Because I'm not familiar with all of their core values and stuff.
But if you're a fairly advanced Linux user,
I would recommend giving Arch Linux out of trying and looking into it.
I believe the website is Arch Linux.org.
Anyway, that's just a brief cap of me and Peter's.
And I guess that's about it.
That was a brief cap introduction of me, computers and whatnot.
And I hope to have something more planned out for you in the future.
And much more higher fidelity recording because this certainly is not entirely accessible for our podcast.
Some of the ideas I have, let's see, what do I got going on with my mind?
Maybe doing a Arch Linux install, maybe a talk through Arch Linux install.
Basically take a y'all on an installation of Arch Linux and talk you through it.
I wanted to add some information to recording somebody did on binoral recordings.
Binoral recording is a very interesting thing.
However, there are many more commonly used methods of stereo miking in the production world.
And they are...
Well, it might be more dodgy, but I think at least there are often times better for recording things like music and stereo and whatnot.
Anyways, I stopped rambling about that.
Maybe I'll do an episode on the different ways of capturing stereo audio.
What else did I got at my sleep here?
Maybe some programming content interviews?
I don't know. What we'll see as time goes on.
And before I make my exit, I just want to thank all of you for what you've done.
You guys really put out some great stuff.
And I think it's totally awesome that this podcast is user-generated.
There's always...
It always feels like there's a fresh new voice awaiting each episode.
Fresh new minds that...
And there's none of that...
None of that pod fading going on.
Anyways, this is Joe Wakadamata signing off and I hope you all have a great week.
And um...
Well, you'll be listening to me soon.
Take care.
Bye-bye.
Take care.
Please don't sound like me.
