Episode: 749
Title: HPR0749: Full Circle Podcast: Editing the Podcast, Part One - Preparation
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0749/hpr0749.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 01:52:45

---

The Full Circle Podcast on Hacker Public Radio, this episode editing the full circle
podcast, Part 1 Preparation.
Hello World. And welcome to our show on Hacker Public Radio.
We thought we'd bring you some of the material we've recorded over the past year for Full Circle
Magazine.
I'm Robin Catlin, stand by for a healthy dose of British sarcasm.
The Full Circle Podcast is the companion to Full Circle Magazine, the independent magazine
for the Ubuntu community. Find us at fullcirclemagazine.org forward slash podcast.
Editing the full circle podcast.
Some time ago, we received a request to talk about how we record and edit the full circle
podcast. So here it is. Other podcasters may listen to this and say, you've got to be
kidding. I'm not. This is my workflow, not yours. It works for me and it's still evolving.
If you listen to all episodes, there is, believe it or not, an incremental improvement
over time. Some are better than others because I had more time to spend on putting it together.
It's podcasting, not blu-ray mastering. Sometimes just good enough is just good enough.
Also, I am not an audio file. I create podcasts that sound okay on headphones and crappy desktop
speakers. So what if it sounds lousy on your $10,000
bang and oft and set up? This is not Andre Previn and the Boston Philharmonic.
Part 1 Preparation. We maintain a rolling running order from episode to episode. That's our
template for the show. Ed and I prep the list of news items with links in the draft running
order shared on Google Docs. Dave ships in extra news items or not when we get to the recording.
Ed and Dave usually agree what games they're reviewing in advance and will often alert
each other to new releases in between times. We've got a rolling list of opinion topics which
we pick from for next time after each episode is recorded. Depending on what guests and or
interviews we've got lined up or already in the can in the case of the prerecords,
we'll drop an item or two into the running order. I then make sure I've got theme
and incidental music picked out drawn from our regular set. I will also sprinkle our
bits the delightful Victoria reads out and the trailers throughout the show to separate the
segments. I hope this gives us a fairly snappy magazine star format to the show. Dave sends me
the text of his game reviews ahead of time so we know what he's going to say. I'm now posting
these as attachments podcast on the full circle site so anyone struggling to understand him can
read along a Dave so you might be able to understand when he speaks too fast but that doesn't
necessarily help to understand his jokes. I'm sorry there's nothing I can do about that.
And that's how we prepare the show. Look out for part two recording next time.
So that's part one. I hope you found that at least a little bit
eliminating the full circle podcast we'll be back soon on Hacker Public Radio. I'm Robin
Kattling goodbye for now.
