Episode: 111
Title: HPR0111: Steal this movie 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0111/hpr0111.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 11:34:39

---

.
Hey, it's Deep Geek and welcome to another episode of Haco Public Radio.
Today, I offer you a film review of a documentary called Steel List Film Number 2.
Self-professively, it's not a film about piracy or sharing files,
but a film that explores the massive changes in the way that we produce,
distribute and consume media.
The most interesting parts are the films of streetbusters,
pirate movies being distributed, and a brief history of piracy is given.
This history focuses particularly on the similarities between the current war between the MPAA and progress
and the same fight that occurred during the era of the invention of the printing press.
The parallels are further developed as an explanation of current tech innovations
are applied to this concept by examining the development of the internet
as a way of replacing newspapers,
an idea first put forth by computer scientist Joseph Licklider.
The documentary moves into its big finale by examining how the development of free media
leads the need for more people to produce media independently of large organizations,
something that we should all appreciate as HPRListers and producers.
A variety of turns are available at SteelListFilm.com
or you can directly download an ISO at archive.org.
I want to give you also mention the original film or the first part,
which was SteelListFilm No.1.
It's essentially the same content,
although it explores how an MPAA instigated rate against the pirate bay
led to the swung of the ranks of the pirate party in Sweden.
Now you can still easily get the torrent for this film with a little Google searching at SteelListFilm.com
but it is no longer actively promoted due to the unclear proportions on it.
In other words, the man cracked down on the producers so they made SteelListFilm 2,
which is legal and free to view and redistribute.
So I highly recommend you view this film and I hope you enjoyed today's short episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Thank you.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio,
I hope you enjoyed this film and I hope you enjoyed it.
Thank you.
