Episode: 500
Title: HPR0500: 2009 Year in Review
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0500/hpr0500.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 21:49:48

---

Hi everyone, this is Klaatu and this is Hacker Public Radio, year review number two,
where we could call it around table, so I have it done around table in like three months.
On the call is Enigma.
Hello everyone, it's been a while, but I'm somewhat back.
Yes, we almost remember what your voice sounds like.
No, thanks.
I'm not crazy and do 63 episodes, dude.
Yeah, that's right, okay.
Yeah, so I don't know, Enigma, what are we going to talk about?
We're going to talk about, I guess, some of the stuff that, I guess this past year has been season two, right?
Yes, the past year has been season two.
Well, we made it through two years of this, almost 500 episodes, this is the 500.
That's another milestone, I guess, for Hacker Public Radio.
I don't know of another show that has 500 episodes.
I don't know, either, actually. I think, yeah, that might be pretty rare.
Now, I'm granted there are 10 minute clips here and there, and we do some different things, but 500 episodes is quite good.
We did miss a few shows this year, so we don't have our streak of being perfect, but we do what we do.
Real life comes up, and I'll take the blame on some of it.
Real life hasn't been good to me for the last couple months, but it happens.
So, Clot 2 has been filling in for me for post and shows for the last month and a half now, and hopefully I'll be back at the beginning of next year.
Thank you, by the way, for doing what you did.
Not a problem, it's been fun, actually.
I like the sense of control being able to put in my own show notes.
Now, do you think like that?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, you're just power-hungry.
You don't like being at an HBR menu, do you?
Yeah, exactly, correct.
So, I guess we're going to talk about a year in review, starting with the Christmas Special last year.
And I do apologize on this one, because I should have had a Christmas Special this year.
Again, real life comes up, and I was ready to do it, but it was like Wednesday, you know, the day before Christmas Eve, and usually do them on Christmas Eve at like 11 o'clock.
I wanted to also do it live on DDP Hack Radio, however, you know, best late plans, you know, usually go awry.
And this one went awry, so I will say that I do intend on doing a Christmas Special next year, but this is, you know, January 1st, and you don't know what's going to happen in 12 months.
Anyway, and then me and Wintermute did, you know, the first episode of season 2, and we basically reviewed, as we are now, reviewing the last season, you know, season 1.
So, after that, do you have anything that comes to mind class 2 on good shows? You know, they're all good, but, you know, anything that stands out?
Boy, yeah, that's a good question. I've been kind of digging some of Monster Beasts posts of, like, Richard Stalman interviews that he finds.
I don't know where he finds these things, but he always, I'll just post them or append them at the end of the TIT radio or something, so he'll, like, post those. Those are kind of cool, because I don't want to have to go out on the internet and, like, look for these things.
But if they're dropped in my lap, I'll listen to them.
And a couple of things that come to my mind are the round tables. You know, originally, when this first, this idea of HPR, you know, was come up with, with, you know, Dylan Stank actually came up with the idea, it was going to be a round table based.
And we weren't going to do it at a daily show. We were going to, you know, do it every once in a while, maybe quarterly or, you know, once in a month.
I really liked the round table concept and to integrate that with the daily regular shows kind of, you know, merge the two ideas together and make it, I guess, interesting.
Yeah, I like the round tables a lot. I really enjoy them and I enjoy listening to them, because you get all the different perspectives on whatever issues being brought up. So I'm going to do more of this here, although I don't have to be the one to do it either.
I mean, people can certainly, you know, post the mailing list or something and invite more people to the round, you know, just start around tables. That's acceptable.
Yeah, and I'm going to try to get more involved with the round tables, either as a participant or, you know, maybe host if I have an idea.
So, and we also had our 300th episode this year. And it was on the 23rd of February. So we've done 200 episodes since the 23rd of February.
And that was kind of interesting because what we did with that one is took clips of everybody saying, you know, welcome to Hacker Public Radio and, you know, merged them all into one, you know, 10 minute clip.
And you could hear, like, there's what, 20 or 30 hosts and you heard all their voices, which was kind of kind of neat.
Yeah, I like that one. I remember that one. I like that a lot. That was creative and also just kind of cool, because you get a sense for, like, who the people are, who are making HPR.
Yeah. And we've got, we've got people, you know, all over the globe doing this. So it's not, it's just not us, you know.
It's phoenix and fizzle web and monster B and, you know, all over across the entire US and abroad. So, yeah.
So you get quite a unique perspective on different cultures, different people. Anyway.
We could always use more. We always could use more hosts.
And I was going to mention that several times that it is always, our doors are always open for new shows and, you know,
different perspectives on things. Yeah, exactly. And even if, you know, something's already been covered, you know, we don't mind recovering topics just to, you know, in a different perspective.
I know that who did the, there was two people that did Python, right?
Yeah, it was like, Zook did it most recently.
I don't remember who else did, but yeah. Yeah. And there was somebody else that did it. So, and both of them were quality shows. And I enjoyed the different perspectives and the different styles of, of how they presented the information.
So, you know, if anybody has something that they want to, want to talk about and give a different perspective, we're more than welcome to take their show as well, even if it's already covered.
Yeah. So, that's one thing that I wanted to talk about was Zook's Python programming. I did enjoy that as well. So, I'm going through, as I'm going through the list, that's episode 302.
And we had a couple of different series that I wanted to mention, one of which being the DeepGeek series, talk deep to me. I know he's syndicating episodes to us as he releases them. I believe he's doing either a month behind or two months behind to HVR.
Yeah.
Like, he's releasing them on his site and part me DeepGeek, I don't have your URL handy.
DeepGeek to me.us.
Okay, it's talk deep to me, U.S. then.
Yeah, I'm bad.
So, he ditches hacker public radio and goes off to do his own thing and he gets like special mention on the show. What's up with that? He's a traitor.
Well, you know, he's a friend. He's a friend of the show, so.
Friends like that who needs enemies. That's what I said.
Yeah, I'm sure he's going to get, I'm going to get hate mail for him. Thank you. No problem.
Another couple of series that I wanted to mention were the OLS interviews, which you did, right? Collective?
Probably.
And then the self-interviews, I believe. Yeah, those were good.
And we also had, you know, some of the self-taughts were aired on HVR as well.
So, I gave, you know, a few extra shows to play with and, and, er, them.
I believe there, all of them are, again, pardon me for the URLs, but they're available on the self-site.
And also, Phoenix released a bunch of software freedom day Dundee's talks or interviews.
Yeah, those are really cool, too.
Yeah, I did enjoy his one with where he talks about podcasting.
Yeah, yeah.
The overview of how he, you know, sets up in records and edits all of his podcast.
Yeah, see, I love listening to that kind of thing.
I love hearing how different people just manage the sort of the multimedia production side of things.
And obviously, everyone does it just a little tiny bit differently.
So, it's always interesting to hear how they do what they do.
And one thing that, er, another round table that I liked, is there such a thing as ethical hacking?
Oh, yeah.
That was quite good, I thought.
And we had several shows on netbooks.
That was the hot thing this year.
Yes.
335 was, months to be talking about his netbooks.
336 was asterisk with Mark Clark and Darlene Parker.
They did several shows for us this year and all were quite good.
Yeah, right.
Those are leave views from overseas.
Want to say the Netherlands?
Quote me if I'm wrong.
I'm just walking through these shows.
Paul and we had some movie reviews also this year.
Deepgate did Star Trek and I believe Dave Yates did the watchman.
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah, I forgot about that.
Yeah.
And it doesn't necessarily need to be hacking related, Linux related, anything.
I've done game reviews before.
Pretty much anything we'll take.
It doesn't necessarily need to be technical.
It just needs to be something that, you know, is decently produced.
I mean, you know, can't be...
I've taken everything that anyone has ever submitted me.
So...
Good record.
I mean, that's our little area of entry quality.
Yeah.
I remember when I was first going to submit a show to HPR.
I was a little bit hesitant because I didn't know a whole lot about quote unquote hacker stuff, you know.
But it was on video codex and I emailed you guys and you were like, yes, I did end.
And I sent them in.
And it was a lot less, I don't know, intimidating, I think, than I made it out to be.
So people should just submit.
Yeah.
It's been a lot of really cool stuff this year or I might be getting ahead of you, but it's Six Flop.
Yeah, Six Flop did, let's see.
She does the demo or bus series, which are just really, really cool.
Kind of like multimedia projects that, I don't know, put probably most people to share him.
And some of her screenshots are incredible.
And then she does the Uber Wheat Packer Force, where she's basically posting patches and things like that to programs.
You know, that people use every day, like, going to a screen and things like that.
And you just download the patch and you can apply it and try it out.
It's pretty cool.
I'll have to check out her latest, because I don't think I remember...
I listened to the first one, the demo bus, when she first sent it in.
And some of our shows going back to the non-hacker related shows.
We've done some music ones.
We have, I think, two series on just music related.
Yeah.
And basically the entire show is just, you know, one music track.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I believe we call that all songs considered, or...
Yeah.
...which might not sound good.
Yeah.
I like the renderings.
Rather.
India.
Yeah.
And that gave me some cool music that I really, either hadn't heard before or hadn't heard in a while.
And a couple other things.
We have, what's in your toolkit, basically, listing the, you know, the tools you use every day.
Yeah.
That's the good one.
You know, people aren't doing enough of those, actually.
In fact, I don't know if I've done one of those, which...
I haven't done one of those, and I really need to.
Because that's a great idea.
Yeah.
And then we often have to add deviates to a podcast I listened to.
Yeah, yeah.
And then Deepkey's lightweight app, which is a really good series as well.
That's a great series.
I love that series.
And none of these series have to be a single person.
We can mix and match.
So if you want to do something for the lightweight app series, just submit a show,
and we can put it in there.
It doesn't necessarily.
Nobody's going to take a fence by you submitting a show to their series.
Yeah.
Yeah. You can hijack other people's series, and no one cares.
It's really nice.
People like it.
Yeah.
We like when you submit shows.
We really do.
Yeah.
And Monster Bee is doing his TIT radio on HBR.
He's releasing them specifically on HBR, and I don't think he has another...
He has an hog feed, right?
He has an hog feed, but I mean, the Mb3, I mean, and...
Yeah.
I mean, the hacker public radio gets them pretty much first, I think.
And that finished show that I was referring to earlier with the podcasting episode 451,
and it was podcasting from my audience.
Okay.
And just going through here, where I talked about the talk deep to me series,
the TIT radio stuff, Luber Wheat Hacker Force Radio, which I find very...
Great title, by the way, Sixth.
Yeah.
And I think that's it.
All I wanted to talk about, unless you have something glad to hear that you wanted to mention.
No.
I mean, obviously, when you call out specific episodes like this, you're necessarily leaving out like other people.
And I always feel bad about that, but I mean, we can't list everyone who did an episode this year.
Yeah.
We can't list, you know, what, 240 or 250 episodes.
So we do enjoy them all.
I was just mentioning the ones that stood out in my head as ones that, you know,
I personally enjoyed it, and to be quite honest, I don't listen to every single episode.
I used to, back season one, I think I've listened to every single season one episode,
but it just got too many, too quickly.
I mean, we've done a lot of episodes.
Yeah, and it's weird, because it depends on what your real life is like,
in terms of how much podcasting time you have, or podcast listening time you've got.
I mean, now that I've got like this, I got a new job and stuff, so now I'm finding myself,
like, I can't get enough podcast.
You know, I'm just like, give me a three-hour episode of something,
because I can listen all day long, but whereas when I was actually looking for a job for a while,
I was like, even though I didn't have a job, I couldn't actually listen to as many podcasts,
you know, because you're not like just sitting there changing to a desk like you are a job.
So it's weird, just depends on what is going on in life.
Yeah, and this is just a hobby for us.
We don't make this a real-life gig, so.
You don't get paid for any of this, so.
And I always look at it as, you know, this is fun for us.
So whether I submit five shows or 50, as long as it's fun,
I'm going to keep doing it, and we'll keep doing it.
Yeah.
And we don't plan on going anywhere anytime soon.
Correct.
As long as Quad2 keeps submitting shows.
I did not call you a media hall yet, so you can't.
Yes, please leave.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Well, I've been called a media hall before with my promotion.
We're trying to be a little more PR-wise with HBR and trying to get out there and put our name out
and try to get more hosts and more, you know, more different perspectives.
Yeah.
If you want to call me a sellout, you can call me a sellout.
We have one ad on the site for our hosting company, Carol.
And I'm just giving them a shameless plug here.
Good.
And you can give me a hint later, but they've taken good care of us.
And we get paid for putting, you know, the audio ad at the end and the one ad on the site.
So I don't plan on having, you know, got off-lads all over the place on the site.
It's going to be clean like it is now.
There's going to be some site upgrades next year, hopefully, if I get time.
We're going to try to get the next button on the bottom of the site.
And we don't have to look at all 500 shows.
We can actually tap through them maybe 20 shows at a time.
That'd be nice.
What about a search bar or something? Is that really hard to implement?
We have a search bar.
Oh, nice.
That's the top of the site.
Oh, cool. I never thought to use that.
You've been on the site for two years and you've been on the search bar.
This is nice.
Every mention of Python just comes up just like that when I search for Python.
Yeah.
Wow.
Yeah.
And there are a couple of Easter eggs on the site.
And if you want extra credit, email me that admin and hack a public radio if you can find them.
There are, I think, two, I want to say.
Wow.
I mean, would one know it when one saw it or was it really obscure?
Well, they're not public.
I'll give a little hint.
There are links on the site that have some different functionality that isn't public.
And it's not one of the navigation links.
It's a link to a page.
Wow.
Okay.
This has been there all along.
It has been there all along and they have not found it in two years.
At least no one has told me they've found it.
Right.
Yeah.
Someone I'm sure someone has found them if they've been just randomly clicking on the site.
And a couple of other things I wanted to mention were going to try.
Keyword, there's try.
A couple of live shows this year.
Yeah.
That'd be fun.
More info will follow.
We're going to try to make maybe one of the round tables live.
That would tie into another project that I'll announce later.
If the live show actually works well, we might do something on a regular basis that may be semi-live or some type of other.
So we're going to have that project that we were talking about.
And I'm going to try to clap to later.
You know that project we were talking about?
No, I don't know what you're talking about.
No, you're useless.
We'll have some more info later for that.
And that's all I can think of that.
Oh, I forgot to announce the leaders of correspondence.
Class 2 has 63 episodes so far.
He is the media horror of us all.
And now you've called me a media horror.
Yes, I am.
And we appreciate it.
Monster Beers in second with 38 as of this episode.
By the way, you're making credit for this episode.
Class 2, it's going to be me.
Oh, man, that's not fun.
We did initiate it, I guess.
And you can't pick two people or we could do like a various hosting
and neither one of us could get credit.
Oh, no, that would be bad.
Yeah, but I need episodes.
I have only had two years.
And then cynics would be in third with 27 episodes.
Cool.
So what do we get?
You get nothing.
You get my ever thanks for appreciation.
And we do appreciate all of the hosts, no matter if they submitted one or something.
Yeah, absolutely.
So.
Frankly, I like sort of like the one or the two things here or there.
You know, just random stuff from random people.
Just talking about random things.
You know, because you just get this new, you get more information than you had before you listen to the episode.
It's cool.
Yeah.
And it gives, you know, as we said before, it gets different perspectives.
And it's a variety.
I keep thinking, you know, what if people get tired of hearing, you know, this voice or that voice or whatever.
Yeah, they don't want to hear me for two hours.
Yeah.
Or you, for example, for every day.
You know?
Hi, everyone.
It's class two again.
Yeah.
I should edit that in all your shows.
It's class two again.
Again.
And again.
And again.
I mean, let's just start all the joys.
And you want to talk about the calendar, how we're going to go away from the calendar, and it's going to be more of a free form type.
Yeah, you know, I mean, the calendar, I don't know if I'm being pessimistic or what, but it feels like the calendar is not really working all that well.
It does get sent out to a mailing list.
But I don't know that everyone who is, I guess, a potential host is on the mailing list.
And then I don't know who on that mailing list is actually up for an episode that month.
You know, just like, I don't have any sense of, like, availability.
So, Cindy had a calendar turned into kind of, like, kind of almost like, if you want to, you can do an useless activity.
Yeah, yeah.
So, yeah, we might be migrating away from a calendar and just say, look, you have an episode, you have something to say, you have something that you have learned lately.
Send it in.
We will post it as an episode.
And that's that.
Yeah, and we're going to play around with how we want to do the monthly, the monthly slots, because, you know, before it was, you were scheduled for a particular day.
And so, there's drawbacks to having a calendar and there's drawbacks to not having a calendar.
So, we're going to play around with season three on how we want to proceed moving forward with the calendar type.
And I never liked the calendar to begin with.
So, you know, putting it out of its misery is fine with me.
We do have some changes on the bidder reforms and the bidder of related sites coming down the pipe in the next few weeks.
So, pay attention to those if you're interested.
It will just be more of who's running which project and things like that.
We're not going anywhere anytime soon.
So, the bidder reforms are still, you know, very active, you know, from sign up for an account and post away.
I'm there quite frequently if you have questions or comments.
There's a hacker media forum that you can talk about each show comment and, you know, ask questions, things like that.
And it actually reads from our SSP on HBR.
So, it'll post a topic every day for every show.
So, you can just go in and comment on that particular topic in the forum and then somebody will reply.
So, actually, the hacker or the radio forums are really on bidrev.com.
Yes, correct?
Yes.
So, bidrev.com is the parent site for all of our projects.
HBR is one of the projects that we started.
So, bidrev.com, you know, flash forums is the forum for HBR and all of our other projects.
What are the other projects then?
Well, we have, right now we have the main project is HBR.
The bidder reforms is the parent site that is what started it all.
Again, it's very active forum, you know, very tech-hacking related.
We also have Dr. Oppers, which is a wiki.
And we have a couple of other projects in the works that we will probably mention on HBR in the coming weeks.
I have some ideas, but as I said, the best way plans usually are.
So, I'm not committing to anything because I don't want to hate mail.
Well, what does it take when we ask you this?
But what does it take for a project to be a bidrev project?
Just that stankdog and you thought of it first?
I mean, is that like a bidrev project or what?
Well, when I say a bidrev project, I met one of us, meaning one of us from the forums,
came up with the idea and started running it.
And we all, HBR, bidrev, Dr. Oppers, they're all hosted off of the same server.
Okay.
And I say bidrev project, I mean, the sites that are all in that server.
Okay.
So, we, you know, HBR is a community run project.
It is not particularly a bidrev project, meaning a DDT project.
But if, yeah, but you guys are, yeah, I get it.
You guys have the idea, you guys implemented the site, et cetera, et cetera.
Yeah, I'll make a line in the sand there and say, you know, it is a community run project.
Sure, sure.
However, we do host it and we, you and I, are the admins.
Right, right.
The sites that we control, I, towing term, bidrev project.
Gotcha.
So, as I said, Dr. Oppers, bidrev, the bidrev forums and HBR are three big ones.
Okay.
We have some smaller sites that we do host off the box, but those are not prevalent.
Okay.
Anyway.
So, yes, some of that stuff will change and we might be migrating things around depending on our future.
But we're not going anywhere.
Right.
The topic of the conversation.
Okay.
Anyway.
So, I think that will do it for this episode, unless you have something else going to.
No, I don't think so.
I guess that's probably it, yeah.
It was a good year and people can certainly submit new episodes.
And I guess, I guess really, I mean, one of the things I would take away from this episode is kind of like, hey everybody,
there's like this bidrev site out there, you should go over there and like get involved if you're not already on it.
I mean, I know I'm not really in the forums and, you know, you should come post on the forum.
Yeah.
You know, like there's sort of another side of the hacker poverty that maybe not everyone is fully aware of.
Yeah.
And we also have the IRC channel.
You know, we have an HPR of the official HPR.
IRC channel is on IRC.
That bidrev.net.
Yeah.
Pound HPR.
And there's like three people in the room at the moment.
Right.
So, you know, if you guys want to come over and talk to us, you know, I know Clot 2 hangs out there a little bit ahead.
And I'm usually there.
I haven't been there lately, but I'm usually there.
And the official bidrev channel is pounded in revs on that same server.
They're the same IRC server.
And then I'm usually found in pounded length cranks and various other channels on IRC free node.net.
And I just gave them a shameless plug because they're good guys over there.
Yeah, they're good.
Yeah, they're good.
That would be our 500th episode.
Wow.
And yeah, it's been a crazy two years.
So, hopefully we can keep it going for another two or three or ten or however long we want to keep doing this.
Yeah.
Yeah, why not?
And I guess we'll see everybody on Monday for 501 and have a good day and have a great year, have a good 2010 phone and so forth.
Thank you for listening to Hack with Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net.
So head on over to C-A-R-O.N-C for all of us in need.
Thanks for watching.
You
