Episode: 620
Title: HPR0620: Klaatu holds an interview with Tek Systems
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0620/hpr0620.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 23:58:01

---

I'm going to interview people.
I just keep doing it.
Everyone, this is class two, and I'm at Southeast Linnock's Fest, 2010.
And I'm sitting here at the TechSystem booth, speaking to Nikki Watson.
Nikki Watson, I'm Nikki.
So what is TechSystems?
We're an IT staffing firm, and we're nationwide.
We have about 90 offices located nationwide.
And we provide IT staffing for anyone and everyone in the technical realm.
Okay, so this means that I could get a job, potentially?
You could.
Our local office is here in Greenville, South Carolina, which is how we became affiliated with the
the Southeastern Linnock's Fest this year.
But we do, we have offices in every state, you know, have a huge database of local or technical talent.
Okay, so I'm sure this is probably all available on your website or something,
but just maybe give me a little rundown.
Like, so if I wanted to apply or get into your database or whatever, what would some of the steps be?
Well, depending on where you're located or for many locations, really, you can go to our website,
which is www.TechSystems.com.
And that's Tech with T-E-K, right?
Correct.
That's Tech with T-E-K and even S on systems.
But you can click on locations from our website and click on any of our locations and contact that office
and just let the person that answers that local office know that you're looking for a position
and they'll point you in the right direction of a recruiter that can help you.
Okay, so a couple of things come to mind.
So I mean, I'm not looking for jobs right now, but I've been looking for jobs before.
And like, monster.com and all these other sort of like career sites or whatever, they kind of suck
and I get a lot of spam from them.
So how are you different?
We are different. It's always best not always tell people it's best to make a phone call to someone.
Don't just submit your resume via email to like, thank them a job or a monster.
It just kind of gets lost sometimes in cyber spaces.
It's always best to make a phone call and that's a good thing about TechSystems.
You can get our website and you can even do job searches.
So if you're a cobalt developer or if you're a Linux administrator or whatever,
you can type in Linux in the search box and it'll pull up all the positions that we have posted nationwide.
And so if you see a position, there's usually a recruiter's name associated with that position.
Call that recruiter, let them know what you're looking for.
They'll get your contact information.
You can send your resume personally to the recruiter.
And that's probably the most helpful and best advice I can give to those who are looking for work.
So that means that the jobs that are actually posted on your site are real jobs,
that are companies that are looking for places.
So what about, let's just assume that I have some experience in the technical realm.
I'm not like a super IT pro.
I'm looking to get started in this career path, but I don't maybe have a whole lot of,
maybe my resume isn't great.
Are there positions for that sort of thing that you're going to be looking for?
Sure, we do work on all levels of IT positions.
Our client's nationwide will contact us with positions of varying skill levels, entry level all the way to a more senior level.
And what you can do is, depending on the location where you're looking for work,
call those that local tech systems office.
You can call in and just let someone know that, hey, I'm looking to get into IT,
they'll direct you to the proper recruiter and then you can kind of go from there,
getting your resume to that recruiter and just letting them know what your background is,
what you're looking to do, so that when we do have an entry level position open,
we can contact you and give you the details in specific.
Alright, cool. So is this something that you should kind of start?
I mean, obviously it's not. It's probably not going to just you call and then suddenly you have a job.
I mean, how long does this normally take? Or does it, does that sometimes happen?
It does. Sometimes, you know, it can be a really quick process where, you know,
we have a specific job that's open, someone contacts us and the process moves very quickly,
even at a standard something that is a very, you know, just kind of all lines up
where you're looking and we actually have a position open,
it still takes about two to four weeks to get you through the screening process
and hiring process, paperwork, and all that involved.
But I've been working with Section 8 where it's taking me a few months to help them,
depending on what skill set they have.
And that's, you know, I've worked with those who may be working,
but are looking for different opportunities.
That was, yeah, that's what I was going to ask, yeah.
And so, you know, I say in touch with people multiple years sometimes
and just depends on, you know, what they're looking for and what we have coming available.
Okay, well, that is actually really cool.
What's the big catch? Like, why does tech systems exist?
Like, I don't understand, because if you're just helping find people,
helping people find jobs, you know, like,
how do you guys stay in business or whatever?
I mean, yeah.
You've got, like, just, you know, friends who help me, you know, hook me up.
You're the healthier, yeah.
Exactly. We're a career consultant.
That's a good way to spend it.
We're here to kind of tell you what's in the market.
You know, our clients, we know companies all over,
contact us as well.
You know, wanting to know what kind of people are out there looking,
you know, what kind of talent is out there.
We kind of combine the two.
We combine the fact that we, you know,
we have the talent, the technical talent,
and people out there that we're trying to help.
And then also we are in on the company side,
knowing what they're looking for,
that kind of make a connection between the two.
Okay, I got it.
And so it sounds like you are pretty,
you probably cover a pretty broad spectrum then.
It's like not just the system admins or whatever,
but it's like programmers, whatever.
You do entry level, PC technician positions,
development, you know, anything, applications,
very cool.
That sounds, yeah, it sounds neat.
So, okay, I guess your website again,
just so that we have it.
Yes, it's www.techsystems.com, and that's PEK.
Cool.
Thanks for talking to me.
All right.
Thank you for listening to Hack with Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Pharaoh.net.
So head on over to CARO.NT for all of her TV.
Thank you very much.
Bye.
Thank you very much.
