Episode: 100
Title: HPR0100: Hackermedia Awards: RFA
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0100/hpr0100.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 11:30:43

---

This is really critical now.
At the end.
I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't
know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know,
You close your eyes and we're not using you
We're not speaking out loud dream
You're waiting to ask your spouse
straight youranged b To l pay off your bunch of dreams
Again tell her base you're valued
Take a rampage and take your back
Show in Р our dog on your boys
Get your fill, please, you're no good girl
The atmosphere brings you far wide
It's just that I wait for you in the run
Yes, it's not enough
You can tell by it could youление
But your mom tried to wait
I'd goì, no please, I never knew
Your father's revenge
He pushed her back to facto
Take away within
So, welcome to another episode at HBR, I'm your host Enigma, and I have a special guest
host today, want to introduce yourself.
This is Drupes.
And this is our 100th episode, and Drupes wants to give out an award today, so leave it
to you, Drupes.
Okay, well the other special guest is, want you to go ahead and introduce yourself.
This is Dool.
Good evening.
Okay, and probably some of you are unfamiliar with who this Dool character is.
But if you continue listening to the show, we will delve into such things.
The short story is he had a really, really awesome internet radio show before those
terms like podcast, or hacker media, or things like that, and he set us the high standard.
We can actually see the blushing over the phone conference.
And actually one other thing, there's a show called Crowned Pork, and they were very nice
because Enigma and I don't plan well, and they let us use their conference, they record
their show on.
I just want to give them shout real quick.
Thank you.
Oh, nice.
Yeah, thank you to that.
So anyway, we're going to delve into this award.
I run a site called Hacker Media, and Hacker Media lists all kinds of awesome free content.
And we try to filter out ads that are as far as us speeds from people that are less free,
but have good content nonetheless.
And we're doing some work on it right now to, we've always kept to the free stuff on top.
I don't know if anyone's ever noticed, but we want to put, if people that really contribute
a lot, and their stuff's really free on the top, and then the people they get paid for can be down at the bottom.
And anyway, a dual hosted this show called Radio Freak America.
And Radio Freak America wasn't the first little internet radio show, like that was in the now,
and Hacker MIND and such, and I think that they helped.
You get started because you saw that you could do this too.
I don't know what the words in your mouth.
No, that is correct.
And RFA got up to 99 episodes, which Hacker Public Radio has just surpassed as of this recording.
Even though it had more hours of content, whatever.
And RFA was hosted by dual in a cast of crazy, crazy folks.
And we're going to read all their names off later.
I don't have a piece of paper in front of me.
Yeah, it's a massively long list.
I was having to read show notes to find out everybody.
It was like, oh, yeah, I forgot about that.
I forgot about this.
And I found RFA at like episode 20.
And I didn't know anything about all this stuff.
There was no podcasting and such.
And I started listening to the show, and I would have to download the shows,
and then I would have to move them to my little iPod or an iPod, my little iPad.
The little compact, whatever handheld.
And I would listen to those while I was driving, and I thought this was the coolest freaking thing ever.
And it was like listening to a conversation between people that were somewhat knowledgeable about what they were talking about.
And it was stuff I like to listen to.
And I was really glad I could listen to the whole thing.
I was really upset when it died.
I was like, what's going to fill this void?
And fortunately that void has been tremendously filled.
Oh, yeah.
And the last episode of this Radio Freak America show.
Dual was very emotional, and we're going to play a clip later, and you can hear him crying.
Like a baby.
Like a little baby.
As we all were, we were very upset.
But Dual was talking about an idea that he wanted to pursue, and he wanted to, like he had done RFA,
he wanted to move on from such things.
And he wanted to do this thing called Hacker Public Radio.
And Hacker Public Radio, well, once you describe what you're envisioning, Mr. Parallel.
Well, pretty much what you're doing.
Like exactly what you're doing.
I mean, and of course it's an extension of squatting, congratulations to you.
And everybody that makes HDR possible, 100 apps is, you know, nothing to scoff at.
It's exactly, it's just like tight technical shows, like something that you would hear on NPR, if it follow was, was about tech.
So you've been a great success.
Well, I don't know if you've been keeping up with the show, but we're trying to do some of the NPR-esque things,
because they do things very well, like they have all songs considered.
And we have whole episodes of just music that's nerd core, I guess, is a proper term for such things, tool.
Back music, when I labeled it, but, you know, whatever you want to leave that.
Yeah, everything, I think everything is what I love, I love the intro, I love the design, it's nice, it's really nice.
And it's got one of those handy dandy iPod RSS feeds.
It does have one of those handy dandy iPod RSS feeds.
I don't know if you'll partake, but I love my iPod and my RSS feeds for it.
That's right.
I do hate the fact that I have to own like an Apple computer to run my iPod.
I don't want to have windows in the house.
Let me recommend the Mezu M6, I got the 8K and 11, it works great.
So yeah, that's what HPR was about, and of course we talked about the last app.
We talked about it at SLIP's presentation at Hope.
You know, it just never came to be, at least for a while.
But now it exists and it's flourishing, so again, congratulations.
I think the tragic flaw of HPR is that like every other show, someone had to sit down and do it.
So the original idea of HPR, like you were envisioning yourself doing most of this work.
Yeah.
And the whole opening it up to the community has really helped a lot, because we wouldn't be here anywhere.
Like I think I've done like four episodes.
Yeah, and I've done four episodes.
Yeah.
Yeah, it just, it epitomizes community.
And it's like people we don't know.
It's really, really cool.
Yeah.
Yeah, people are bringing it.
It's great.
So anyway, back on to this award.
We want to give RFA an open award for DNRFA.
Like I think that's what we're going to put on it.
And it's going to be at hackermedia.org.
There's going to be a award staying up at the top.
And we're going to be giving it out to shows that have ceased to exist, so that we don't have to listen to hosts
or blather on about voting or tell this guy about this and all this other mess.
And it's printable and frameable so you can, anyone that was involved with RFA,
even if you just sent in like an email the dual red, you were part of RFA.
Are you serious?
That is so awesome.
So feel free to hang it up in your house.
I'm going to hang it up in my house, because apparently I wrote a letter to you,
and it's filled with profanity about the phone company probably.
Yes, yes, those are the best letters.
And those are the best.
I don't think I know that many cuts words anymore.
It was very snake-esque.
And it's profanity.
Very snake-esque.
I've been in a radio, came out of RFA.
I think it was a co-host on RFA a long time ago.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, it was a great experience.
And if I may, thank you very much for the award I'm honored.
And I will be printing this out in color and hanging it in my house.
This is better than a Wikipedia page, which I think is gone now, because that wacko dude is going up the leadership.
But this is really an honor.
And again, thank you and I appreciate it.
All right, so we're going to try to name all the co-hosts.
You got your kidding, right?
There's like too many, like, zany mad cap hosts that were on that show.
Are you really going to, you know, you're joking, right?
You don't really have this.
You know, I'm hobbling around with a hole in my foot from a nail that I stepped on earlier.
I met my wife's grandma in the house out in the middle of nowhere.
Yeah, like you have to turn off the dirt road to get here.
Well, do you want to let me know?
You?
What are you on me to do it?
I'm sorry.
I thought like you had like a paper list.
I was like, oh my god, you made a list.
That is so hard to call her.
So you want me to name it?
I'm sorry.
I'm just going to bring it with me.
I was like, OMG.
All right.
So now I'm going to be very hurt if you forget.
No, no.
I'll do my best.
And if you started episode 20, wasn't that?
I think that was the phone lady episode if I'm correct.
Yes, it was.
Yes.
That is a great app.
She's awesome.
So hosts.
And I think we're all hosts of the show, of course.
The racks condor, right?
The ridge.
And then we had to flip.
We had sappers, stank, winter mute.
Jason Scott was on the last episode, of course.
Were you ever on troops?
No, I was not.
But just the profanity laden letter.
Yeah.
Who?
Oh, man.
I know there were more people.
It was a lockout.
Mary Chan was on it.
Oh, yeah.
Mary Chan and Skyler.
Very nice.
The female contingent.
They were lead.
I think that's a pass.
I'd have to go look.
I know there was lots more people.
So there was a lot more people.
I was going to go look at the phone lady, of course.
Anyway.
Yeah.
A large assortment of folks.
Oh, yeah.
That made the full thing possible.
Like, ah.
And one of the things that really struck me that people
really don't do anymore is that you did this every week.
Like, for a set time, every week it was out.
And like, I knew when to go download it,
because you had to go download stuff back then.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was a lot of work.
I think you missed one and separately took care of it for you.
I think so.
Yeah.
Oh, and meme.
Did I mention meme?
Meem was on.
Yeah.
It was a lot.
You know, what the thing is, because it was fun,
the work kind of, you know, it didn't seem like work.
And I don't want to say it started to become work.
Excuse me.
But.
Well, as has been said many times before.
Thanks.
So how's that?
Things that might have been that long.
That's the episode coming along.
I actually have it.
I have the audio.
I've got it raw.
I've got an AP.
And I don't know if I've ever converted it.
But it's just bad.
It's audio is horrible.
It's painful to listen to.
You can understand.
You can hear and understand everybody.
But it's just so hard to listen to.
I'm thinking about just, you know, making a minute or three
and just sticking it out there.
That would be awesome.
Yeah.
Maybe I'll do that.
Maybe I'll get back.
I love that too.
I like the guy with the afro and the scarf.
So when I get back from my travel, I think I'll have,
oh, hopefully God, I hope.
I'll be at home for more than a day.
And I'll do that.
I'll whip that up.
And good, bad.
I'll just put it up.
And we'll see what happens.
I think that'll be cool.
And so like, you know, in honor of you guys, in honor of HDR,
we'll drop that on people.
Spectacular.
I think we can actually use that for an HPR episode.
So there's more we don't have to do.
But please do.
Yeah.
You don't do rapers out there.
I'm sorry.
I should more work.
I don't have to do.
There you go.
Anything that's lighten your load than England.
Thanks.
Okay.
I would also, we done talk about RFA.
Do you have anything more to say?
The only thing I want to say is that fanny packs are in.
Okay.
They are cool.
That's it.
That's all I want to say.
The views of the SprayLow are not the views of the SprayLow.
Roll a nerd tour.
Fanny pack.
Okay.
I'm actually on the fanny pack topic.
My best friend is a juvenile probation officer in New Orleans.
And apparently they have the required to carry a firearm.
And more of the options he has is a fanny pack.
And he was thinking about it.
He's like, I could have my service pistol.
It's like a clock.
It holds like 15 bullets.
It's awesome.
And he's like, I don't think they would be manly enough
to have a vany pack with a gun in it.
You can't do it like a fruit.
You know, seriously, if somebody's wearing a fanny pack
just assume there's a gun in there.
Spray it out.
Mine.
I carry I get the notebook.
I get the tone dialer.
I got the dash.
Rolling.
Awesome.
So where were you going with this?
I don't know.
Anyway, moving on from this wonderful RFA topic.
I want to add out some ideas off of y'all.
And please leave comments on the HPR site if you have ideas on this.
But my wife and I are about to endeavor to build a house ourselves.
And we're looking at all this stuff.
And it's to, I don't know, it's kind of like software.
Like if you want to be able to do this,
you have to pay this.
You know, if you want to have a plan that can be reviewed
by the people that review such things,
you have to have an official plan.
It can't be something you just drew up and said,
I want to build this.
You have to pay an architect and you have to figure out all this crap.
And I can see if you're building like a,
we're just building like a little house.
And I wanted to open source my house building
so that we could have like weekly updates or pictures
and things like that and put my plans online.
And if someone that's, you know, qualified as an architect
to draw designs could take my plans and make real plans
that others could then take and use for themselves.
And like we watch a lot of that stuff on TV whenever we're around the TV
where they're building stuff in a house.
And I don't really show really what's going on.
Like the whole do it yourself stuff.
And we want to just be more open with the information
so we can talk to people and say,
I don't know how to do this.
Can you show me and have someone over the internet help us?
Kind of stuff.
Do you think that would be a waste of time or?
No, I think it's a great idea.
I don't know if I would trust the internet with, you know,
this structure and mechanical workings of my home
but, you know, making them available online for everyone else.
How can that, how can that, how can it be bad?
Awesome.
Yeah, I think it's great.
I mean, it's not like I mentioned.
We're just building like a little house out of the country.
And we actually don't have to have like a planning commission
or a building inspector or something like that.
We just have to build it to code that the insurance company will insure us.
Really?
Because it is out in the middle of nowhere.
And I'm already going to collect rainwater and solar power
and all that other mess.
Wow.
I think that's really cool.
You know, and that'd be to extend that.
What if, you know, what if, you know, you did have approved,
you know, you had stamp drawings, you had approved drawings.
You know, could, you know, you know, how, I don't know.
I guess it depends on what state and county and city live in.
But, you know, could it, could somebody you just use those
and say, look, these are stamp of this guy?
I can use these drawings.
I don't know.
I probably not.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, if we had the official plan to do with download
and pick them to kink those and get them printed.
Yeah.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, definitely.
If somebody could say, take it and get them to, you know,
get, go pay some guy to get the stamp.
I think it's a rat.
It's going to be where my secret hiding places are.
Exactly.
The bookcase and the...
The information's hard to find.
And when you do find it, it just full of ads and...
I don't know.
I don't really show you what I think you need to know.
I think it's great.
So, and I got asked, so are you going to build your,
literally, like, building this house with your two hands?
Yes.
How long will power tools and stuff?
Wow.
That's, that's wind right there.
Yeah.
Actually, I'm actually, I stepped on a nail today doing some light construction.
Yeah.
Maybe I should invest in some shoes that have, like, a metal plate.
Get some red wings.
You're good to go.
Wow.
That's really cool.
Anyway, I think this has been an HPR episode.
Thank you, Mr. PRLL and Mr. Enigma, for helping me out with this.
And, dual, thanks for coming up with the idea.
It's been in my head for a really long time and we've wanted to do it.
Well, thank you.
Thank you both.
Thank you everybody who makes HPR possible.
Awesome.
So...
Got an episode on my face.
Security alert, all done.
After very careful consideration, sir, I've come to conclusion that your system sucks.
Hey, I don't believe that any system is totally secure.
Remember, hacking is more than just a crime.
The number you have reached, 9-1-1, has been changed to a non-published number.
The number you have reached, 9-1-1, has been changed to a non-published number.
That's what you need to know and I need to know now.
And I might as well tell you what the plans are for the future.
Jason just busted something out and we're going to do the same right now.
I've been talking with BLAND.
There are things that we want to see out of audio that you can get on the internet.
And one of them is much more research, much more in-depth study, right, into a topic.
And then talking about that topic in an intelligent way, right?
Having show notes, right?
Having basically a document that could be a text file itself, right, as input to the show,
having something akin to a well-written, well-produced piece that you would hear on public radio,
one of my favorite pieces of media.
So we are going to create something called Oddly Enough Hacker Public Radio.
That's right, you can look at the logo now.
We already have a logo we've ripped it right off NPR.
You can go to oldscarfreefe.com slash images slash HPR underscore logo.jpaker.j if I'm not sure which.
And that is our plan.
We plan to take one topic, right, and it's not going to be this time, this week, so this is going to take one topic and we're going to delve into it.
We're going to get an expert, right?
We're going to do research. We're going to document things.
And we're going to talk about it.
And we're going to make sure that it is meaningful.
We're going to make sure that it is a little activist's got damage because we want it to be that way.
There's got to be more. There's got to be more than regurgitated in the news and talking about calling cards, right?
There's got to be more.
Having Jason having you on tonight, this was it.
This was it. This was the prototype.
The first episode of HPR was tonight.
This is exactly what I want out of something.
The insight, something that's been around years and years, you know, in the community way before.
You know, I ever thought about it.
That's the kind of stuff I want.
We already have plans for the first episode.
You know what I'm glad I'm glad I've gone this way.
I'm glad I didn't take notes because of what it's stuff to ask me going about the reasons why we're moving on from RFA.
We're moving on from RFA.
We're not quitting.
We're not stopping.
It's not dying.
And I know, and I always, and I've always realized this, you know, just looking at my logs, that the more you do things, right?
You just consistently, you know, do something on the internet at least.
People will come, you know, the numbers will grow and you'll quote prosper.
I realize that.
If the hits suffer, I don't care.
I want something more. I want something better.
I want something more substantial.
Hence hacker public radio.
We already have a plan for the first episode.
That I will not give up right now.
I already have a plan for a guest.
I already have a plan for a topic.
It will be phenomenal to use one of my favorite words.
And I believe you may already have a plan for releasing it.
Yeah, and you want to talk about that?
That's fine.
I'll definitely.
I'll definitely.
Wait until you have all full details, please.
Really? Okay. All right.
That has been well thought out ahead of time.
Yeah, yeah.
Stan, can I have Todd?
Blan and I have talked about this.
This will be good.
This will be changed that is absolutely necessary.
And change that everyone will prosper from.
The information gained, right?
The different format.
Because there are some great shows right now.
There are some awesome shows to fault radio, CCCPR, or Gamer,
and a lot you can find at audios.taxposs.com.
I just want to take it further.
I do. I really do.
That's why I announced it.
Well, dual, if I can say.
Please.
You know, one of the things that I do, obviously,
is a person who runs a site like techsoft.com.
If I look for trends, I look for events, I look for things that,
at the time, may not have seemed as momentous or important
as they were, but in fact, turned out to be.
And I certainly, in just the short time,
that I really came to understand this project,
you would undertake it with RFA.
You know, you rose up from inspiration that, you know,
one can point to the old school of pirate radio
in the 60s and the 70s, and then you look at a manual
taking over, you know, working with Pacifica radio and stuff
and inspiring people that way.
But then you start to see, you know,
the hacker mind inspiring you.
But then you take it to this, you take this online radio,
in other words, one without the infrastructure
of a public radio station like Off the Hook has,
and you take it to this other level.
It's the 720 of hacker radio that you provided with RFA,
because you end up consistently producing a dependable show
with, you know, excitement, with knowledge,
with a place where you don't leave your listeners behind.
They don't suddenly feel like they're listening
in on a cell phone call that they shouldn't have been.
They feel like they're right there.
None of your calls, none of your shows,
ever had a live performance.
In other words, your broadcasting into a wall.
You don't have that feedback.
You're not getting a live call or telling you how you're doing.
You had to basically compose the piece
before you ever heard a note was played.
And that's a skill.
And I can tell you that, certainly, as time goes on,
people will look at these 99 shows at these 4.25 days
of production.
And it will be remembered as one of the great, you know,
creations in this kind of subculture.
And I'm not being exaggerative.
I'm not trying to, you know, paint things up as they were.
I am telling you quite honestly as somebody who has studied
all these people that I have in my pantheon heroes,
like, you know, for various reasons,
Christensen and Wozniak and Goldstein,
even Dark Tangent, even people who in later times
I haven't done along with.
And I can tell you that I am proud to add you
to that group of heroes.
Oh, my.
Thank you for listening to HACRA Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Pharaoh.net.
So head on over to C-A-R-O-D-E-T for all of her team.
Thank you.
Thank you.
