Episode: 985
Title: HPR0985: LFNW: A Short Talk with Thomas Stover
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0985/hpr0985.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 16:58:47

---

This date and I'm here with Thomas Stowler from, well, where are you from, Thomas?
From Birmingham, Alabama.
Okay.
What are you doing in Birmingham today?
I'm doing a talk on the C-development in Linux platform.
And I actually did a talk yesterday and did some more questions and demonstrations today.
Okay.
And how are you liking the Linux tests here in Birmingham?
I am having a great time.
I've had a lot of fun talking to people.
And especially to be able to get rid of the historical book of Alan Turing this morning,
I talked to him for about an hour after his talk and enjoyed that immensely.
A lot of new hardware.
There's the multi-seat Linux setup.
It's pretty impressive.
Let's look at that.
And hopefully we're going to pick up some information from him.
I love fun just talking to people at the after party.
It's a good event.
You know, these are really good things to do this day and meet people and have a good time.
Now, sort of what Linux tests have you went to?
I went to the Atlanta Linux test one year before that happened.
Then to the Texas Linux test two years ago, this happened so far.
It means that you Southeast Linux tests two out of three years that has happened.
And hopefully trust in other branches tongue is on.
Okay.
Did you present it?
Any of those?
I have.
I presented it at one of the at last year's Southeast Linux tests in Spartanburg, Texas.
And at the Austin, Texas Linux test last year in the previous year.
Okay.
Just curious.
Since we have another contributor that is from the Southeast Linux test and has been involved in that,
you met big days.
The name sounds familiar.
I don't know if you've had a face face conversation.
I will tell you that it's a Southern Raw.
That makes any difference.
Okay.
So what's some of the C programming for Linux?
Well, the only thing that's the most exciting thing that there is in Linux.
That's the, that's my brother better to sort of speak.
I think it's the best exciting thing.
It's the core of where the power that comes from.
If you didn't have C programming.
And that's what would be what it is.
And what it means is that you wouldn't have thinking the abilities that you do is the best development platform this day for.
Kind of come merit.
And before it's the tools that you have to use a graduate superior for other platforms.
And this is the most exciting place to be if you really want to get that level.
Okay.
What are some of the projects you've worked on?
Well, professionally.
The last, most of the last decade, I've used Linux in C specifically.
In a state of platform for flood control and flood management and hydro power support.
And that's been a huge success.
As opposed to some of the proprietary blockchain technologies that we use.
And then use Linux and network capacity for extensively far around the structure into that nature.
And on the side, I was used it for personal computing for over a decade.
And a couple of course projects that I have are one of them is a library interface with automation.
You're a POC student Linux.
I have a build tool that's in the process of these leads that helps you render a bonus from project files.
A build configuration in general.
And then the big project that I have it worked on for several years.
As a core component of the scale system is called sensor process.
And that is seemingly where it is.
And that is kind of the overlap between the fields of scale, building automation and network monitoring.
So that's a very good project.
Yeah.
So is building automation and Linux on a big scale has something to do for that?
That is some people have been doing.
I've been doing it in a hobbyist capacity for a number of years.
I think more people would get into it as more things.
The adrenal graph, for example, does a lot of things with that.
And there's some interface in their projects that I'd like to pick up on.
Also, things with an industrial capacity of POCs and also things like the network management and monitoring tools.
That is one of overlap terms in the world, which can be.
You can take those things out of that and make some big tools.
Is there something that you got with all of them?
Yeah.
No good, though.
Well, we're here talking in the hallway.
The painter is removing the paint asking and now he's coming in from, I guess, out working.
There he goes.
So, where do people find out about you online?
The business is my website, which is Thomstover.com.
And I have my contact information and this project information comes in.
I have a few articles on there and some minutes of office.
I have several there.
So, do you believe it's not there?
No good.
And so, thank you very quickly for having your public radio and, you know,
put up your own show with your projects and that when you get a chance.
We're nice to have you here.
Thank you very much.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital.Pound and the Infonomicum Computer Club.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
All binwreff projects are crowd-sponsored by lunar pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released on your creative commons,
attribution, share a life, lead us our license.
Thank you.
