Episode: 907
Title: HPR0907: Learning
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0907/hpr0907.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 04:44:21

---

in Ruby, it is not just just 여기는, it is puppies, it is still big.
Hello, this is modern to see with my first hacker public radio episode.
I wanted to take this time to tell you about free cool learning websites.
The first site code academy.com is a new site that was brought to my attention by a coworker.
They have cool interactive courses that teach you how to program without having to download
an IDE and without setting up an environment on your machine.
You just follow a lesson while you type in an interactive version of the web page.
The one I'm going through right now is specifically for Java script, but they are making
Python and Ruby lessons.
The next site.we.mit.edu is open courseware from MIT, which if you haven't heard of it already
is post-free lecture notes and videos from MIT.
And although the classes do not count towards a library, MIT recently announced that you can
get certificates for completing courses from open courseware for taking these classes.
While it will not go towards a library, it is a certification from MIT.
It couldn't hurt besides how many of you listening to HDR are interested in free knowledge.
The last site arachnoid.com is a member site that I found in the last and is arachnoid.com.
The site was created and is run by Paul Lootus, who used to work at NASA and has an amazing
perspective on technology and life.
He wrote and maintains a cross-platform text editor that has syntax highlighting and if I remember correctly, code completion.
This was the first editor I used in Windows, and it helped me out a lot.
He offers most, if not all, on his code under a Careware listens, which I recommend you read about on his site.
You should also read his article called Internew with an Extraterrestrial, which an alien reports back to his people and describes the backwards and primitive inhabitants of Earth.
So please check out code academy.com if you are looking a quick, easy way to start programming.
Check out open courseware from MIT to learn more about learning for free.
And check out arachnoid.com because it is an amazing site created by an amazing person with amazing perspectives.
This has been Mordancy and you if for some reason you want to contact me, send email to hbratmordancy.com.
You have been listening to HackerPublic Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on their free Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
HackerPublic Radio was founded by the Digital.Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club.
HPR is funded by the Binary Revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are crowd-sponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released on the creative commons,
attribution, share alike, lead us our license.
