Episode: 871
Title: HPR0871: HPR Community News for Nov 2011
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0871/hpr0871.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 03:52:25

---

.
.
Hello and welcome to another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is our monthly review slash state of the podcast show.
I'm Pokey and I'll be your host for today.
Joining me today, however, is the illustrious Ken Fallon.
Good afternoon.
And Klaatu.
Hi everyone.
We're going to start off with the review of last month's shows.
And then we've got some other topics to head into the state of the podcast.
This month is going to be pretty important.
So if you don't normally listen to this whole show,
you know, go ahead and fast forward through the yeah, the reviews of the shows.
If you're not interested in that, but we'd like you to at least stick around for the state of the podcast.
Because we think this month is going to be pretty some pretty important topics that we're going to be covering.
Making stuff.
Yeah, some pretty exciting stuff actually too.
And in addition to being pretty important.
And we need you for that when everyone who's listening, we need you for that.
So we're going to get started with the review that part now and fast forward if you don't like that part.
Try skipping forward to about 23 minutes and 20 seconds or so if you don't want to hear the month,
the review part of the show.
Shall I begin?
Sure.
Okay.
I think the last episode was the community news course.
And then we had a GNU EMAX series, Platoon, which has got a lot of feedback.
That was episode one.
And we have the man himself on.
I'm afraid to say, Platoon, I'll never switch to EMAX.
You only say that because you haven't given it a fair try.
You're supposed to do all the exercises in that show and be converted.
Yes.
I'll do my best.
I'll give it a try sometime.
It's on my list.
Right after clearing up my shed and all the other things I have on the list.
The following day was one of the ones that we got the most feedback on.
Was the Patrick Volkordink Slackware Linux chats with Latoon.
Excellent show.
Excellent.
Absolutely brilliant.
I put a post on my blog about this one.
This is the perfect example of a HPR show.
Not because the audio was a bit dodgy and there was people walking in and out.
It went way off topic and there was a bit of tech there and it went various different.
But for me, if you like that show, you like HPR.
If you didn't like it, well, you're going to have to pick and choose your episodes.
I thought that was so cool because much like Slackware, which if you don't know Patrick Volkordink,
Volkordink is the guy who created and runs and manages Slackware.
Much like Slackware, it seemed intimidating.
I would have thought that approaching a guy like Patrick Volkordink would be real intimidating and real scary.
And he just sounded like the coolest guy in the world.
And that's kind of like what Slackware is.
It's really like the coolest distro in the world.
But its reputation is that of a much more difficult to use distro, but it's really cool.
Yeah, but that's kind of like Linux and generally I think.
I mean, I know that when I'm at festivals and conventions and stuff,
I always get nervous about talking to that maintainer of whatever program that I use.
And then the next thing you know, you're talking to them and you're just hanging out with someone whose application you use on a daily basis.
And you think this has literally changed my life, but here I am just talking to this person.
I've always liked that about Linux.
And if you haven't been to any of the festivals, it's an absolute thing that you must do this year.
Try and find a festival local to you and choke it in.
And then bring a recorder and record us some shows.
Yeah, they're popping up everywhere these days.
So yeah, it is a must do experience.
Okay, enough about that.
Let's move on to should cars get smarter by city.
And this this was a cool because he had promised to send in this episode and took him a while to get around to it.
I guess it was amazing how much has changed in that in that single year.
So the following day we had actually for your distro by Mike Hengley.
Anyone here at this?
I was fascinated this one.
Yeah, me too.
I thought this was a really great episode.
Actually really cool stuff.
Good information in it.
And it seemed like such a good idea.
We have all these, you know, application stores and Rebels and all the rest of it.
Why not put a repo there and you just get a book or a yum install, you know, counter Monte Cristo or whatever.
Just fascinating idea.
Yes, of course we should do that.
And then we had the following day, a new Emacs 2.
And then we had Sam took from the free software foundation, you're who I actually need to contact again.
He sent me an email, followed what email about that, about the work of the free software foundation.
You're doing over here for us.
I don't remember what they mentioned.
They mentioned some big campaign that they'd done that I'd even heard of.
And he mentioned that it wasn't even from the free software Europe group.
It was like just one of their sort of like little, you know, one of the groups there.
Sort of claiming FSFE affiliation, but that it grew into like this big much bigger project.
So it was a really great interview. I really enjoyed it.
So I poke a go ahead.
I was just going to say I've liked all of your interviews that you've done from over there.
They've all been really interesting and really enjoyable.
Well, there's more to come.
Leave me this more to come.
And then we had Mr. Gadgets coming in with the pre-micro computer tech in the home number two.
Any of you guys ever have a glimpse of the golden book of chemistry experiments and chemistry sets like he was on about.
But it was great to hear about.
That was really cool.
No, I didn't know about the golden book of chemistry.
However, in some of his later shows, he was talking about electronics kits.
And I did have a few of those.
Yeah.
I would have loved and also loved stuff.
But last I didn't have that when I was a kid.
Chemistry sets are hard to come about nowadays because there's so much stuff they know about chemistry now that they didn't realize, you know, just vapors and explosive compounds.
And you know, God forbid our kids become terrorists with the chemistry set.
So it's just you can't get away with the same stuff anymore.
Yes.
Yes, exactly.
Not to mention when you were when you were done with that stuff, everybody just dumped it down the toilet.
That's probably pretty bad too.
I'm just reminded of some stuff we did when the teacher left our chemistry class.
That's not to say that on the air.
The following day we had the source trunk on cloud episode, which is syndicated Thursday, obviously.
And I don't know if you subscribe to Demetri Show at all.
Yeah, I love that.
That's literally one of my favorite shows.
It was probably my first podcast I ever heard, actually.
He's really good about putting out really, really quality content on a fairly infrequent schedule.
Yeah.
When that music starts playing because I don't look at my podcasts in the morning, I just kind of throw them all in a folder and hit play on my way out the door.
And when that music comes on his, it's just it's like opening a Christmas present.
I love feeling.
Yeah, same here.
And I love his beer review.
Me too.
And I don't even drink beer.
Never.
And I can't stand other people's beer reviews like on other shows when they do them.
I'm just like, I don't care.
Well, no, it's not not what you're well.
Yeah.
But anyway, I like his beer reviews.
And I don't drink.
Yeah, his beer review is the inspiration for that little segment in the in the book club.
It's, yes, I think it's brilliant.
And he reviewed OpenFlout as well, which is something I think I think I'd like to install and play around with.
And the following day we had another of cities.
FScon's interviews.
He was talking about customized book books, which was kind of interesting.
Pretty, we need, we need it, but it seems like an idea.
New Parallels as well and some shameless plugs.
So, yeah, go on.
I don't remember this one specific.
I remember enjoying it a lot, but I don't remember the specific topics except for new parallel, which was really, really cool.
That sounded really awesome.
Now, he said that that was, did he say that was in the kernel now?
Was going into the kernel soon?
I forget now.
I can't remember.
I can't go into the kernel.
It's a ship and not.
Yeah, yeah.
I don't, I mean, I don't, I don't know if it's shipped yet or, you know, I don't know where it is, but.
Well, I think all it does is it just, um,
usualizes different threads in the kernel.
So it should all, everything you need to do it should be there.
And the customizable school books was about, um, where you would modify a chapter of the book.
Oh, that's right.
Yeah.
And you modify the chapter.
And if somebody has a, if it's an audit of who learns through audit of, you would put in audio sections in there.
And if it's visual person, you draw pictures in there.
And then bit by bit, the book improves and that you have 15 different versions of it.
It doesn't really matter because the child.
Um, you know, if you do it for that type of child in one school, then it's available.
Other places cause the greatest license associated with a lot of work.
Yeah, that's, that's great stuff.
I love stuff like that.
I just think that that, that's where things need to go, you know, that kind of collaboration and participation.
Yeah, I do remember that.
Now that one, that one did kind of touch a nerve with me because back in school in a good way, back in school, I could not read a textbook.
I had to learn what the teacher was saying on the chalkboard.
It was drawn on the chalkboard and what they were saying or I wasn't going to get it.
I'd have to go for extra help because to sit down and read a textbook.
It just did not work for me.
It was, it was like around pagan a square hole.
It just, it never worked.
And I mean, I read those things, pay, cover to cover, but I just hated them all.
They were just so badly written.
I remember just stinking thinking this is not worth reading.
I really did not like my school books.
Oh.
And then the following day, we had EMAX Part 3, the reckoning where Klaatu forces us to use EMAX.
How could you have slipped through my fingers?
It's because I also had to use the AI, but I have to, the AI, but I have to use it.
I, I laughed my tail off at the beginning of that show, Klaatu.
Your intro to that was hilarious.
I recorded it so long ago.
I don't remember what that was, but I'll go, I'll go listen to it again.
We're talking about how proud you were of everyone or the, just me, how proud you were of me for coming along
and being so good that I come nearly a EMAX master that was brilliant.
We had, we had, oh, Kevin Grenade, who was a new host, we haven't welcomed our new host yet,
who gave us a breakdown on TFTP.
I loved this episode.
I loved this episode.
Yeah, I'm so good.
This was hard.
I knew Klaatu.
I mean, this, yeah, this is just, this was, this is great.
This is stuff that, I mean, he sounded like he knew what he was talking about and, you know,
it's just really good information and the nitty-gritty stuff about it.
It's just so cool.
And I sold it.
Yeah, I sold the buckets on my head.
I sold the headers.
It was very good.
It was very good.
And when I was listening to it, I remembered, Klaatu, I remembered your, was it HTTP protocol show that you did?
Yeah, yeah.
And I could just picture you listen to this and someone knocking on your office door and just going, go away, go away.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
This is exactly what I wanted to be doing, but he's done it like the, you know, so well.
It's, it puts, puts me to shame, puts it all to shame.
Anyway, the next day we had a Tony who's from Freestyle, which is another interview I did at our camp.
And Tony actually, you know, from the interview was busy selling the mugs and stuff
and selling the t-shirts for the guys to raise some cash.
And, you know, I was, as I was plugging everybody for, you know, doing an interview,
come on, HPR, record a show.
It's easy, it's easy.
And then he just comes out and gives me this interview about all the stuff that they've done and software freedom day and blackpool and everything.
It was just a gem for you.
He sounded like a really fun guy.
I'd like to go fishing with him.
Absolutely.
The salt of the earth.
Met so many nice people there.
It's amazing.
And then the following day we had open gattling with the open tech conference with some interviews with there and good old less pounder as well.
And I, it's amazing.
I had spoken to less pounder the whole time through a camp and never twigged that he was the same guy who's on the full circle podcast.
I just, I also strongly believe he's the wing commander.
I can either confirm tonight.
I don't actually know who the wing commander, I thought the wing commander was Tony.
I'm pretty sure it's Robin.
You can hear his voices is real.
I don't know for sure.
I'm only, you know, I'm half a world away from the guy.
But his voice, I'm accusing him.
He's the wing commander.
I have to listen and, and give my, give my opinion next month.
Then we had new host Delta Ray.
Well, with a show on desktop and transparency, no less, this was interesting.
I like this a lot.
It was like oral history of, of sort of Linux.
And I mean, I don't know if, you know, how much, I mean, like he says himself, it could be true.
It could just be his impression.
It's kind of like hard to really say, but that's what history is anyway.
So this was pretty interesting.
Yeah, I was just going to say it's exactly what history is.
So it's, it's completely legitimate in my view.
And it was really excellent.
It was fun to listen to.
And it's, we need more of that.
And he, he tricked me too when he, when he came on and said desktop transparency.
I was thinking, you know, this was going to be a lesson in how,
kind of like political transparency came about to, you know, free software and open source software.
So I was like, oh, I've heard this before.
Do I really need to listen to it a 20th time?
And then it was, you know, literally how, you know, your windows are transparent on your desktop.
And it really was cool.
It was fascinating.
And what's cool is, he, in the show notes, he has the actual image of that, you know, fake background that the guy took and posted on the news.
Yeah, that's so cool.
Speaking of which, we're trying to, I don't know if you're looking at the show notes on the website.
Recently, we're trying to add more HTML images and, you know, links and stuff.
So that we, I should have a bit for people watching.
And then, um, tattoo with publicant, a, a, a, a, publicant user friendly prop front end to duck smell.
And I swore to myself that I, that day, come out of work and had spent,
uh, basically we're doing a lot of testing XML recently over the weekends and everything.
And I was going, oh my god, I do not want to hear this.
But nonetheless, it was, uh, it was very excellent, um, episode.
And I'm actually interested in, in looking at the book, XML format.
Yeah, it was interesting.
You've, you've convinced me if I ever write anything down, I should use that.
Let me tell you, I used to myself because just the other, well, it was a, it must have been a couple of weeks now.
But I was doing something and, and, and I thought this is, this is just one thing.
It's going to be simple and wouldn't you know, like the next day some people were asking me,
oh, I want a copy of that. Can you give it to me?
And I'd written it very specifically in like, I think it was plain text or something.
And they, they wanted it like with all the, the screenshots and stuff like that.
And I was like, man, if I'd done that in dark book, I could have just exported it to PDF and sent it to them.
And so, yeah, from now on, I, I don't use anything else.
But, yeah, how do I open a dot TXT?
What is this tattoo?
Well, they wanted the pictures in line.
So, all right, right?
And then we had Mr. Gadgets again with GIFs, GIF guide for electronic engineers of the future.
And I want to apologize to Mr. Gadgets for not putting up the show links with the show notes.
I'm really, really sorry.
He has been stepping up the pace, sending in episodes, I don't know if you've noticed.
And the reason is not to take over the network.
He's doing it because he's heard me ask or show submissions.
And he's never filling in for other people who otherwise have not done it.
And I'm going to, may I take this opportunity to remind people that you can call and show is just like Mr. Gadgets is doing.
He's just picking up his phone.
He's dialing the number that you can find on the website.
And when he's done recording, he presses pound.
So his show gets put in our queue and gets posted.
I don't know if anybody's tried to call in a show and forgot to hit pound.
If you don't hit pound at the end of that recording, it doesn't go in.
But it's very easy to call that in.
And I'm sure you've enjoyed his shows as much as we all have.
So if you're holding back on recording a show because it seems too hard or because you're, you know, real picky about sound quality,
he's just coming in over the phone and it's still very listenable and very worthwhile.
It's the content.
It's what's in his head that he's sharing with us that we're all listening to and enjoying.
And you've got the same thing.
So, you know, that's, that's my sales pitch right now.
Please call in a show if you can't record one and send one in another way.
Do that.
And be afraid that it's going to go in the air straight away.
We probably won't do that if you wanted to send us send an email out and to edit out something or edit out coughing or whatever.
And we're more than do that.
That's not an issue.
So, if you find the whole concept of recording a show online over the telephone, you know, doing it live on air,
which is actually what he's doing.
You know, he's, he's speaking on the phone and it's going to go live.
If you find that a bit daunting, then just press record on your MP3 prayer and send us in that file.
Okay.
The following day, we had EMAX console by JWP.
JWP I met as well as our camp.
Very, very nice gentleman.
And he wasn't actually by a tattoo's episode to give us some EMAX tool stuff.
And while I was talking to him, I discovered that he does the vast majority of his computing in the text console.
Email, or SS, all the rest of that stuff.
So I'm hoping to get more shows from him on that.
Yeah, voice-like shows.
I'm a big fan of JWP.
I find his voice and his tone and his pace very, very easy to listen to, very enjoyable.
Yeah.
So the following day was the counter mode crystal.
And yeah, it was the syndicated Thursday.
And what do you think of that, by the way?
I don't know.
I haven't heard it yet.
It was pretty, it wasn't bad.
I mean, it was drastically abridged from the story that I go over sloughing through in high school.
And the links to that are in, sorry, when we said that, the links to the counter-month crystal,
both the book, which is out of copyright,
to the Vox project where they have recorded a book word for word straight through uniridged.
They're all in the show now.
And what frustrated me about this show was that it was published in 1938.
That's 1938.
And it is still under copyright.
Yeah, how do we get away with that?
Because the least inferences had the decency to put it up under a creative commons,
and it was published in non-commercial, no derivative works, 3.0 license.
So excellent, except I had to take the ad out.
So there was no advertisement at the end of that show.
And I wasn't allowed to edit or trim or modify it in any way.
So I was extremely annoyed about it.
No, I'm really glad that they put up, of course.
But I thought that there was a lot of radio drama that might get people inspired to do some radio drama.
I think lost and broncs would be happy with me doing that.
But it was a bit sad and depressing.
To think that there will never be a work in our lifetime that will come out of copyright.
It's a bit sad and depressing.
Well, that's why there's new stuff.
Yeah, but that's why there's new stuff that is already creative commons being created right now.
That's the only way forward really.
And then we had the second show from Delta Ray, who by the way, Delta Ray,
I don't have your email address, but I suspect your Delta Ray on Identica.
And if so, I love your command line tip series.
Yeah, that's the same guy.
Are you sure?
Yeah, I met him at Indiana Linux Fast.
Oh, fantastic. Super, super.
And going on about computer memories, Apple lease, TS80, Commodore 120 and Amiga 2000.
Very nice show as well.
Fun foot show.
I'm about halfway through it.
I haven't heard all of it, but the first half has been a lot of fun.
Nope, that's it's a news roundup.
I got the apologies in.
Welcome to new hosts.
So I think I think my work here is done.
Pick it over.
Well, that brings us right into the community news.
And that's probably our primary topic this week is folks.
Ken's work here is done.
He's stepped up.
He has revived hacker public radio from the point that it was almost dead and almost gone.
And he's pulled in more hosts, new hosts than I can count.
And more people have come back to host than I can even count.
I mean, what probably 50, 60 new hosts since Ken stepped up and revived hacker public radio.
However, and I want to be clear this is not me, you know,
saying this in a in a in a drugatory way.
This is, you know, at Ken's request here, hacker public radio is not Ken's project.
And it should not fall solely into Ken's hands to run it, which he has picked up the slack and done that because no one else has shown up.
And we need folks to show up and do what Ken has been doing.
He's would it be fair, Ken, to say you're burnt out at this point?
Well, the reason I took on the job is because I wanted to get the shows flowing again.
And I mean, I have I have series for hacker, I'm not going anywhere.
I'm still more than happy to post the shows every day and help out and go to shows and do interviews.
But there are also HPR after I promised people to do and have them done, you know, pointing a satellite dish,
the completion of my bash programming series.
I also want to do an introduction to Pearl programming series.
And I find a lot of my time is recording other shows as fillers, you know,
urgent shows, rather than the ones where you can take a month to do your study and your background work and prepare the script.
And I want you need to do a complete show.
So basically I'm also a bitch afraid of being referred to HPR as being Ken's thing because I'm just host number,
whatever 36 or whatever, whatever I am.
And there are other people listening to this you right there.
You this is your network, you have as much right to be on here, putting on shows,
running community news as I have.
Not just right, but responsibility.
Folks, it is our responsibility all of us to make Hacker Public Radio work.
If you love Hacker Public Radio, please help us out with it.
That's why it's here because people love it.
And, you know, I mean, if you don't love it, that's another thing.
You know, help us out because we could use the help, be a decent person about it.
It would be great.
But if you love Hacker Public Radio, if you're that person, this is yours.
Come take it.
Get your hands on it.
Be part of it.
We need Hacker Public Radio to become more of a community in order for it to survive.
Right now it seems like a very federated thing is at the right word,
where it's everyone seems to be like an island among themselves.
And we just kind of dump them on Hacker Public Radio.
But it's time that we kind of bring the community together.
More collaboration behind the scenes and more participation from the people who care about it.
And the first thing is, of course, we need more shows to come in.
Ken and Klatu have done probably more shows this year.
Each of them has done more shows than any other two people put together.
Mr. Gadgets has stepped up and filled in a lot.
You know, you can only put out so many shows in a year, each person.
But for the guy who's listening now who hasn't done any, we really could use your help.
We really need your help.
How would someone be more involved in the community other than just submitting a show?
Like, could people just email like admin at Hacker Public Radio?
And say, hey, I'll do the community news this month.
Or like, what are some ways that people can get involved?
Absolutely. We've got a load of ways that you can help.
Let's just run down to some of the things that you can do.
First of all, you can join the mail list involved over there.
Second of all, you can do promotion and other podcasts.
Now, some people might not want to actually do podcasting,
getting in front of a microphone might be embarrassed.
That you're not in clean knowledgeable enough or that you're.
The speaker, your native language is in English or whatever.
You can always suggest show topics.
You can send us in articles and we will read them out for you.
Don't have a problem doing that.
We'll do text-to-speech on them or we'll narrate them.
You can put HPR at represent HPR at shows, at events,
line up interviews for other people.
Do artwork, do stickers, solved in the redesign of the website
were in the WordPress side of it.
I could go on.
There's a list.
We can put a list together of stuff that would be useful.
I just want to comment and something you said that you said if maybe
someone's first language is not English.
To me, that's no excuse because as an English speaker,
and I'm going to speak for all English speaking people here who is first language English,
we love accents.
We love to hear people who have learned our language and speak it in an accent.
It's the coolest thing in the world.
Even if you don't think you can do that, if that's the only thing holding you back,
please, we love accents.
That's no excuse.
Yeah, I mean, Ken's first language is in English.
All right, that's all I can do.
It's very close to you.
Actually, it is.
Oh, darn it.
There's things behind the scene.
If you can code, we need your help with the website.
If you want to moderate, if that's the kind of thing that you can do,
we really need help.
Ken, the website is going through some changes behind the scene right now.
I'm going to do, again, if I don't want to make it clear that I'm not going away or anything,
I just would prefer not to be as in front of everybody as I have been over the last year.
And actually, in any community, in the Debian community,
in the fedora community, this cycle through, I don't know,
the people at the front, whatever you want to call them.
And I think we need to do that here in HPR,
to be taken seriously as a community network, which is I think what we need.
So what we're going to be doing is we're going to be splitting the two things.
For security reasons, we're going to be trimming down the content management system
that actually does the RSS feed and does the show submitting.
And we're going to try and automate that as much as possible.
And then we're going to remove everything over to a WordPress instance.
Running on hacker public radio.
So if you already want to go to hobby public radio.org,
you can see what we have in mind.
And we'll be trying to move that over over the holiday period or shortly afterwards.
So this hobby public radio site is based on WordPress?
Yes, and it just taken the enhanced feed with the HTML embedded in that feed.
And it displays it up on the screen.
So that they're from us going to view the two completely separate zones in there.
And the users are the hosts are automatically created.
We've got all the WordPress goodness.
We've got the calendar there on the right hand side.
If you want to go back and say,
what date was, you know, there was something last Thursday.
And you click on on Thursday and you'll be able to see the show.
So we'll be able to get all the nice things like they, you know,
those cloud tag things where you have the most common words and bigger letters,
that sort of thing.
And we'll probably try to get into things like better tagging and stuff on the episodes
so that we can make a little bit nicer for everybody concerned.
So essentially hobby public radio is hacker public radios website 2.0 beta.
And that's the other thing we need right now is some beta testers.
We need some people to come over to hobby public radio and help out with that.
Whether that's just feedback and you can tell us what you think of it.
Just testing stuff out to see if it works.
Because am I right?
Can hobby public radio is just the name is going to change?
It'll become a hacker public radio.
And that's what we're working with at some point from that point.
You'll be setting hobby public radio to be the same as hacker public radio.
And we'll do a search on Apache search and replace for wherever you see hobby.
It'll put in wherever it says hacker it'll put in hobby.
And the reason for that being if people are caught behind firewalls
and they don't want to go to hacker public radio, then hobby public radio will come up.
So it'll be a very, very, very close mirror of hacker public radio
just without the word hacker in it.
So it's working.
So if you see it'll be hobby, which might make things look a bit like.
But it's a great or a hobby.
So yes, that's it.
I just thought of another thing people could do is like we need taglines.
Hacker public radio, your podcasting network.
I don't know.
You know, some of these cool one liners will describe HPR because I come with the shows.
I've had difficulty explaining what it is.
It's a community podcast network.
Well, it's a network that you do for your community.
No, it's your network.
So one liners, if you're good at using one liners, send them all in all this stuff.
Admin at hacker public radio dot org goes to everybody who basically wants to be on the admin team.
Or just into the mailing list.
I imagine because that way we could bounce the ideas off of everyone.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And yeah, and now we discussed also Ken that you were looking to kind of step back from being the the mouthpiece and the
the community manager type position of hacker public radio.
And we're looking for someone to fill that spot.
Now, I personally would like to nominate Dan Waschko for that because I think he's such a good community leader.
He does a really good job at that.
But you know, that of course doesn't mean that that's him.
But you know, just we're looking for someone to do that just to let Ken slide back a little bit from the position that he's taken up of doing
everything that nobody else has done.
We got to get some load off of Ken's shoulder swarm.
What exactly would this community manager person do?
What's the job description more or less?
Yeah, I get a bug that bug people to submit shows.
Well, bug people to submit shows and then write your own job description.
Because I mean, we're trying to change things up a little bit and make it more of a community situation.
More community driven so that that person, you know, taking that spot would be more like a cheerleader than a leader of a group of people.
Because that's not what we're looking for.
And that's not the feeling that we have ever tried to put out.
That about right?
Sounds good to me.
But then again, just remember myself, Tattoo, Pokey, nobody's going away.
We're all going to be still here.
But I think in order for it to be more of a community thing, we need more community involvement.
Simple as that, I guess.
Absolutely.
And there's some stuff in the works and the new website to make that open, right?
Ken, some tools that are going to be there.
Well, first thing, let's get it moved over.
Let's get the process of posting the shows down.
So we're not in, you know, 20 gigs of stuff down to people.
And then, you know, we can...
It's up then to the WordPress team, whoever it may be.
You've got WordPress experience, want to admin a WordPress site.
Then it's up to you guys to, you know, take it around with it, basically.
And then I'm happy to go back to, you know, checking the shows, making sure everything's going on in the background, liaising what they've been revved, dudes.
And then going back to do my one show a month where, you know, I have the time to do the in-depth stuff.
That's been on kind of the back burner for the last year.
So, sorry, glad to go ahead.
Oh, I was just going to say, I for one, I'm very excited about the new website.
I think the less, the less of a sense that there's like a bottleneck and that that bottleneck is this guy named Ken.
Or the guy named Enigma or whoever, you know, it's just like, oh, here's the site that we're all participating in.
I think that's a really good thing.
And if anyone has any suggestions on how we can facilitate that, then, yes, want to hear it.
Or we want you to do it if you're capable of making that change, you know, come on and make that change for us.
Yeah, exactly.
Okay, shall we move on to the next topic? I think we've done this one today.
Sure.
The, as it's the last last month, the last month, we're already into December.
I would like, you know, people to send in their suggestions for the, you know, the best, their best feeling of, of HPR.
Send it in or we'll arrange for a round table that you can join here on Monday next month.
Yeah, so if you've got any suggestions for, you know, a community type topics or you want to talk about, you know, how good some show was, you know, or you got suggestions for how you'd like to see things go in the future.
Or if you've never participated in Hacker Public Radio before and you'd like to not have to do it on your own, and you want to join in, you know, with a group of people who've already done it, who can walk you along your first time.
That's going to be an excellent time for you to come and try to do that.
Perfect. So we'll, yeah, put out some in the mailing list and on the website and probably added to a few shows when we're going to do that and wherever we're going to do that.
And also I was thinking of reviving a tradition that Chess Griffin had.
Um, sometime back where he would, uh, he asked people to donate to causes.
And, you know, if they sent him a, they sent him in a receipt that he would send them a DVD of it, which would be no, no, I think.
Um, thinking we're reviving that here. Um, now obviously we're not going to send them out a DVD of our shows.
They wouldn't fit on the DVD to start, but we will give you a shout out on the community news section next month.
So, uh, yeah, just get people to donate to some, uh, floss or open sourcey type.
Um, like organizations over the holiday period.
Hey, you're cutting in and out a bit there, Ken. So I'm just going to go over one more time.
What we're talking about here is financial contributions. If you want to make a financial contribution to a free software project or an open source project.
Um, and you want to give us some sort of proof we're not looking for names and credit card numbers.
Just something so we know we're not being, you know, be asked will be more than happy to give you a shout out and give you your props on next month's show.
You might even send you a sticker and find some.
Yeah, he's, yeah, Ken says he's, he's still got some stickers left.
Uh, he may be the only guy in the world to have any stickers left.
And, uh, yeah, let's, uh, let's do that.
So I think that pretty much that's my microphone folds off my microphone stand.
I think pretty much runs it up for this month.
Cool.
Cool.
So Ken, thank you very much for all the work that you've done out front for hacker public radio for reviving it for bringing it back.
Um, HPR is truly something that I love and it's bringing it back to life the way that you've done has been a great gift to me personally.
So personally, I say thank you and from the community. I say thank you.
Well, thank you very much, but a little thanks needed.
Um, as I say, I'm going to continue on working on HPR so there's no change there.
It's just we need a more people contribution and more from people.
This field of community into HPR, but thank you.
And other than that, um, I think that probably wraps up our show for today.
Uh, Klaatu and Ken, thanks for joining me.
Ken, thanks for walking me through how to do a monthly review show.
That was great.
Merry Christmas to everyone. Happy Kwanzaa.
Hanako, whatever I'm missing and a happy new year.
And I hope that everyone does have a great new year.
And I hope that everyone submits their show for 2011 before it's too late and starts thinking about submitting a show for 2012.
Thank you, everyone.
Bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever considered recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binrev.com.
All binrev projects are proud to sponsor by lunar pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under a creative comments, attribution, share a lie,
details are released.
