Episode: 899
Title: HPR0899: Sunday Morning Linux Review - New Year Show
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0899/hpr0899.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 04:43:41

---

Welcome to the Sunday Morning Linux Review with Tony Beamas and Matt Enders.
This is episode 12 for the week of January 1st, 2012.
Happy New Year!
With us this week, we have Mary Tomench, sorry Mary do you want, can we use your last name?
We use our last name.
Some people are a little security parent, you know, installment, who shall remain nameless.
But anyway, we're not wrapping our Wallace and Tinfoil or anything here.
Or a third-day cage.
Yeah, I'm broadcasting from a third-day cage.
So no, Mary's here.
She's got this nifty saw-reason laptop I'm drooling over.
So she says that she's not been able to use the 64-bit flash.
She's had to drop back the 32-bit.
That's right. When I ordered it from saw-reason, it came, of course, with 64-bit Linux installed.
I persevered for several months.
And then finally I just decided to reinstall 32-bit because I just needed the full functionality of my browser.
And now I've got it, so I'm pretty happy with it.
Rock solid laptop, though.
Yeah, that's the biggest complaint I'm hearing about the 64-bit.
And I haven't tried it on anything yet.
I've even got a couple of servers that I'm still running 32-bit Linux on.
Just because I know that 32-bit is rock solid and works perfectly.
And again, we've got a few more years we can give 64 to mature.
You know, then 2032 is not right around the corner.
Well, then give it just a couple of years and flash will be no more.
Oh, you know, if you take it all over, then it won't even matter.
No, it won't matter. That's true.
But when I went to Adobe's website to download it, they had this little notice for 64-bit Linux users.
And you had to go to this other little page and you had to do...
There were just a few more hoops and I was going to go through it at that particular time.
But as I said, it's working great now and I really like it.
Excellent.
Cool. So, New Year's Day.
My wife was trying to figure out any kind of reason to get me not to come.
I'm like, but I have all the equipment. She's like, just cancel it.
You're not the one kidding up in the morning.
Oh, the last night this was happening.
Yeah, because my wife's not even up when I leave.
So yeah, but I don't know.
She didn't give me any crap about it either.
I guess I think she's like, once you've ridden me a lot of the times.
Well, so how far do you have to go?
I only live about 20 minutes away, so it's not a long drive.
It's closer than you.
Yeah, I start off in Detroit.
And I've got that massive 10 minutes.
Well, anyway, so here we are.
Yes, we are.
Matt, what's happening with the kernel?
So, what have you got this week for us, Matt?
Right, in the kernel.
I didn't have a chance to actually put together any notes on it,
and read Linus' announcement.
For the latest R.C. releases 3.2-RC7,
and here's what Linus has to say.
There it is, likely the last-RC before the final 3.2,
so please do check it out, and in between your holiday festivities.
Most of the changes are fairly simple one-liners,
but some QLA for XXX driver updates stand out,
and in fact, account for about 40% of the diff.
That, together with a VMware DRI driver update,
and some DVB updates, and the regular random driver fixes,
means that 80% of the changes are in drivers.
Some net updates, some SH updates,
and then a tiny smattering of other stuff.
The append short log gives the fairly boring details.
And that's what Linus has to say about the release,
and there were no stable kernel updates this week.
And I also have no kernel quote this week.
Oh, but this isn't really kernel news,
but I have to look now that I'm done with the kernel news.
I have to apologize to the Mint guys.
I was going to do this at the beginning of the show and forgot.
But I went on a big rant against Mint 12 last week.
I take it all back.
I've been running Mint 12 with Mate,
and I did the one file redirection somehow.
I must have had an old config file laying around,
and it was pointing the shortcut in the start menu
to Pacman, which was no longer installed instead of Nautilus.
That's why Nautilus wasn't starting.
So once I change that direction,
it's working perfectly and beautifully.
I've been using Mint 12 with Mate for a week now,
and my productivity is back up on par.
So, right.
My apologies to the Mint guys for that rant last week.
You know, Matt, I have been thinking about using Mint,
but as far as audio and video files,
how does Mint handle those?
Out of the box, they all work.
You don't have to go find any codecs, anything.
It's a beautiful experience.
That's one of the reasons I switched to Mint from...
I was running straight up Debian,
and then I switched to Mint because I was running...
Because you can do it with Debian 2,
but then you got to install the Debian multimedia repositories,
and it's still always a kind of a hacky thing.
But Mint right out of the box, boom.
So...
All right.
Well, I think maybe there'll be a New Year's project
for me this week is installing a virtual machine.
Yes.
And they do have another environment.
They also use Genome 3 with what they call the MGSE,
which are the Mint Genome Something Extensions.
I figure what the S stands for.
But what it does is it makes Genome 3 work almost like it was Genome 2.
So...
Yeah.
That's what the S stands for, Shell.
Good job, Tony.
I think about it.
Good pick up.
Two minutes later.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's the Mint Genome Shell Extensions.
And...
Because it gives you your bar back down here at the bottom
and in Genome 3, which they did away with.
But the thing I don't like about it that really annoys me is
you got to go to three places to do stuff.
You got to start menu down here in the lower left.
You got to menu up here and the drops more stuff down from the upper left.
And then you got to go to turn it on and off over here to the right.
The upper right.
The upper right.
Yeah, so that was a little annoying.
I just wanted to make sure I plugged those in as you were gesturing.
Oh, yes.
Yes, the listers cannot see me pointing at the left on the screen.
He was pointing at the right corner of his screen.
So just to clarify that.
Yeah, yeah.
It was lower left, upper left, and upper right.
That's right.
So, yeah, so that kind of annoys me.
But mate is actually perfect.
It's mature enough that I have used productively all week.
Had no problems at all.
So...
Sweet.
So, yep.
That's all I have for the kernel and my apology to the mint people,
which kind of slid in with the kernel stuff, so.
Tony, what's going on with the Linux distributions this week?
We've got a ton of releases this week.
More than last week.
And there's actually a release this morning.
No way.
Yeah, right.
They have to be overseas.
Yeah.
Okay.
It's kind of like the first baby born out there.
And I can't even say ATPOSID.
Aptosid.
Aptosid.
This is all on DistroWatch.
And it was this morning?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
There's two actually releases today.
Yeah.
And Susie released also the Edge Life.
Well, yeah, the Aptosid.
Aptosid?
Okay.
All right.
We'll go with that.
Mary, that's as good as anything else we can come up with.
They say they're referencing the coordinated universal time or UTC.
But they're the first distro that was released after UTC switched to the new year.
That's what that says.
Yeah.
So go for them.
I'm trying to look here.
I don't see anything really that stands out, you know,
opposed to other ones.
No, I just think that they wanted to be the first ones of the new year.
Yeah.
And then seduction was released yesterday.
They're a desktop oriented distribution and live CD based on deviance unstable branch.
SID.
SID.
And seduction.
Yes.
And seduction on my amazing how that works.
We have Linux deep in, which is a Chinese based.
Yes.
I know.
And then there's what EXT.
Yeah.
You skipped it because you didn't want to try and say it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That runner is another one and that's kabuntu based.
Fisher it's featuring carefully tuned Katie desktop and integrated Katie and no
implications.
So I guess it has all the no libraries to make sure everything works right.
So let's just throw all that bloat where in there.
That's what these guys are saying.
Right.
Well, let's just blow that distro right up the two gigs.
Well, I think it's not as much of an issue these days as it might have been maybe five
or ten years ago, because I subscribed to the School of Thought, I get the best tool
for the job.
And so, even though my desktop is KDE, I do have, I have on occasion put a few known tools
in there.
Yeah, and I do the same thing because I really like the KB3 burning utility.
So even though I'm running, I install the KB3 burning utility, which drags in, you know,
the KDE with it, so yeah, I'm kind of being a little hypocritical there, but I don't
care.
Sure.
I've done that a couple of times to try it.
When I was looking for some good email clients a couple of years ago, I was doing K-Mail
and a couple other ones, but I ended up going back to evolution, because I wanted some
evolution was running slow.
Oh, that was a hog, right.
But I wanted something that could do both calendaring and mail and multiple mail accounts.
So that I was going through a bunch of things and nothing really stacks up to running both
of them in the same client.
You know, and you know what personally I've gone to is I just use the web interface for
Gmail, because Gmail is my main, I have a couple other, but mostly my Gmail accounts
what I use for everything.
And I just use the web interface.
I've gone totally, I don't even install an email client anymore.
Oh yeah?
Yeah.
Yeah, because I have like five different emails, I check, and they're not all with the same
email.
With Gmail, you can have them all come to Gmail.
I know.
And actually, I do that for my wife, but I don't want to like have it all coming into the
same email account, because there's like some organization I do between the account.
And that, because the sender address, if you were going to reply, then it gets, or you
reply out through the Gmail account.
But you can tell Gmail to send ads that other account.
Yeah.
And that's how it can set up.
Does it, does it do any checking to make sure that it's legit?
Well, because you're receiving mail on that account too.
Okay.
But any, really, any client you can tell it to reply to as a different email address and
it never checks.
It just, you can always move that.
Oh, because my internet service provider, I know I have to go in and set things up in
order for other email addresses that I have to, so that it'll be sent out to them.
Otherwise, it just says that that might be because I had to do that before, too.
Well, and a lot of ISPs blockport 25, so that could be a problem there too.
No.
That's only if you're running your own web mail server.
You know what?
I wasn't running a mail server and I had a problem with it on my AT&T DSL.
This was going back probably six or seven years with using Gmail.
I had to switch from port 25 to something else, or it might not have been Gmail, it might
have been some other web mace mail, but I think it was Gmail.
Hmm.
Well, and I know when I set up Thunderbird, I tried to set up the SMT server.
Because I was using Evolution, and actually, I was at the time, I was using Evolution.
So, I wasn't using the web interface, so it was actually using the ports to get them
sent mail, even though I was using Gmail, so I just switched over to Secure, to Secure
ports.
That's what I did.
Yeah.
Four, four, three, I think is what it was.
No, that's the web.
I don't know what the email meant.
Nine, nine.
Yeah, it's like nine, 53 years sometimes like that.
Right.
I always have to look it up every time.
It's just one of those things.
Right.
Were you about to say something, Mary?
Well, I was only going to mention that when I set up Thunderbird, you know, this is going
back along the email lines, that AT&T for some reason, they, I wanted to set up my SMT
server for one and one, which is the hosting server, so the service where I've got my domains
and my email and all that.
And despite the fact that I had all the information set up in Thunderbird, I could not, I cannot
use that.
And AT&T kept on me while you, you should be able to use it, but for some reason it never
would go up.
They're blocking, they're blocking port 25, and they tell you they're blocking port 25,
so I don't know why they would say they're not, I was using a different, I was using a
different port.
I only used four.
Might have to go look it up, but.
Four, four, three is the Secure for website.
Yeah.
I don't know what it is for.
So you know what I had to do, it's when I was using the AT&T's SMTP servers, and I wanted
to send it out as a different account, then you had to go onto their website and register
every single account that you're going to send it out of this.
And so that was, because I have my five, and then my wife has one, and then, you know,
so it was a lot of work.
Now I was trying to run my own mail server at that point, I'm like, well, this is just
a waste.
You know, that now is on a residential line, so it's not like, you know, they didn't want
me to do it in any ways.
But yeah, it's a lot of work.
Anyway, our next one is Indian Firewall 2.5, that's a Red Hat based distro for Firewalls.
So it looks like there's a Firewall based on just about every major out there.
There's a Ubuntu one, there's the Debian one, which I think was last week.
And PSense, which is based on FreeBSD, and then this one.
There's an OpenSUSY one too.
I can't think of the name right now, but I don't care.
Anything besides PSense sucks anyway.
Tell us how you're really good at it.
I generally don't hold back, right?
Yeah.
And then we have Calculate Linux 11.12, it's a gen2 base distro with focus on desktop
and server computing.
It's a gen2 base.
Who would ever use anything gen2 as a server?
You'd spend every day, you'd be using so many cycles to compile your updates, it's just
crazy.
Yeah, well, that's why I thought the whole thing with having a gen2 is to compile everything.
Right, that's why is there a distro based on that?
I don't understand.
Because you're compiling and doing everything custom anyways.
Right.
So I don't know.
Anyway.
Do you have a core that has another update this week?
Have you ever used that?
I have not.
I installed it one time.
I was, because I was, for one of them, for a client, I needed to get a thin client going
for them, because they switched with server thin client kind of setup.
And I was looking at using Tiny Core and like Ramina to do the, and when you install Tiny
Core, you get busybox, and that's it.
There's nothing else there.
And it is really small and really fat.
Yeah.
But that's it.
Yeah.
My ISO is 11.9 megabytes.
Yeah.
It's small.
Yeah.
It's small.
Well, that's even up from what they, they used to be, to fit on a floppy, used to be three
mag.
And they've update that, so now they're getting bloated.
And then we have SMS server, which is the super mini server, 1.6.3, which is Slack
we're based for servers.
I heard that's pretty good for like small and business, but I haven't heard much from
it.
Well, I know what I've really been, there's that one that's based on a Ubuntu called
FyDora or FyDora or something like that.
It looks like it's got, it's got a really nice interface to set everything up as a file
server, whatever.
It's looking pretty nice.
I still do all my stuff by hand, like, for a file server, I'll install straight up
Debbie and then install Samba and then I'll install, and I do it that way, but if, if,
if the free package server just shows you, I've never, I don't really use them.
I installed, I want to say a long time ago, but it was like eBox or something like that
that, and it, it was kind of nice because it, again, you, I mean, it put in place several
different packages or several different server-based packages and things, but I, I may give
that a try.
Yeah, because I was looking at it because, because I was trying to simplify my process
because it takes me a little while to do that.
I mean, when you do that with Debbie and you install the basic Debbie and then you start
installing all the services you need to either do a web server or do a file server, I mean,
you're putting some time in.
It takes you, it takes me probably a good three and a half, three and a half to five hours
to get a file server up and running.
After installing all the updates and installing all the stuff I need, so, yeah, I was looking
for a simpler way to do it.
That's why I was looking at that fire door, I think it was what it was called.
But if you're, all you're looking for is a file server, all you need is Samba and maybe
NSF, and that's built in anyway.
So really, you'd be doing that updates.
Well, and SSH, because you need to make sure it's got SSH running and things.
Well, if you install server, well, I guess Debbie and doesn't have a server.
I just install the, when I install Debbie and I just install the total base and build
from there.
So that's why it takes the, I'm sure I can pick those packages to install at the time
of installation.
Yeah.
But I like doing it.
What I like about Debbie and is with the app, you can choose like the group package to install.
And so if you want to install LAMP, you know, the Linux Apache, MySQL and PHP, you just
install that one package or tell that one command and it installs everything for it that
you need.
So it's really convenient.
I know that a Red Hat does that also with Yum.
But it's a different command.
It's not actually Yum.
It's like Yum group or something.
Clat 2 was talking about that a couple weeks ago.
Clat 2.
Is that his name or is that a handle?
That's a handle.
Is it because I hear him on like five different podcasts and I've never been able to
figure out whether that's his actual name or if that's a handle.
It's a handle.
I don't know anybody would have.
Well, some of the, I mean, you getting over there in the Ukraine and Chikolosovakia,
they got some pretty wacky names going on.
I know he's around here.
He's actually from the Midwest, I think.
Oh, is he?
Yeah, because he went to the West.
Oh, you know what he is?
Because the ones the one podcast I listened to him on, the one guy's on the East Coast
and the one guy's on the West Coast and he's in the Midwest, so they have all the regions
covered.
On Haggar Public Radio, he did a lot of interviews at Ohio Linux Fest and then we posted him
there.
Yeah.
Anyway, we got Simplice Linux 2.0.0.
Why do you need two dots for zero in there, but yeah, we talked about that last week too.
I think it's implying that they're going to have a little builds.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
That's what Tony said because something last week was like 2.3.0 and I'm like, dot zero.
What the hell do you need that dot zero for?
And Tony said, well, maybe they want to show you that it's the actual first one of the
dot three.
I'm like, well, there's nothing there.
You kind of get that too, you know?
Right.
I don't know.
I think they're trying to be grandiose.
Yeah.
But what's interesting about that, they're you doing the open box window manager and they're
unstable, also said, Debian said.
Anyway, and then there's GRML.
GRML.
I've used that.
It's a good, it's a rescue desk.
Huh?
Yeah, that's for scripts for system administrators.
The distro of the week, according to distro watch, calculated by website hits per day.
Let's see.
Who's in first place?
You got to update it.
You got to.
I know.
I can do that.
I can roll up here.
And you got to change just the last seven days and then refresh.
Well, I've told somebody else it just tell me.
Start.
Number five is Debian.
It's really.
They have 1172 hits.
Oh, man.
Everybody is down.
It's not going to be the holidays.
No, no, no.
You got to change it.
Not everybody.
I'm on the last seven days.
Oh, I accidentally updated for less 30 days.
My bad.
Sentos is at 1223, which they're down to.
And that foot to wears up for 1284.
You've fun twos at number two with 1571.
And they're up.
At mint is.
Even.
Even at 3909.
Yeah.
Got to love that minty goodness.
I guess.
They must be having a lot of people link into mint.
Well, and then, you know, and we talked about it too, those hits, those hits are the distro watch pages.
Not the actual page it.
So.
Yeah.
Yeah, I can remember a few years ago when I was on the Memphis bandwagon and actually I do like Memphis.
Is I would hit every.
Are they sold around?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I would hit their links.
I'd hit all their links.
They can know.
Hopefully I'll drive up that.
That popularity.
Yeah.
Obviously that was years ago.
I have.
Because I haven't seen a Memphis release in a year and a day.
I think they still are.
I mean, a few months ago they were.
Yeah, but what's the last time they had a release?
Well, their cycle is probably different than a release.
Yeah.
Eight years.
Come on.
What's the release cycle?
It can't be longer than Debian's.
Debian's is two years.
Yeah.
The last update was Friday 23rd December 2011.
So they're mad.
Well, how come we didn't talk about Tony?
Yeah.
That was just a release guy.
I don't know.
Because I don't think he would doubt about it.
Maybe it's updated, but it's not.
They just wrote it because you kind of missed a couple there.
Because we recorded it early last week.
So we didn't get anything that was released on the 23rd that you.
Oh, no, here.
Cause I thought he had a release on the 23rd.
Whatever.
Whatever.
No, we talked about that last week.
When did we record last week?
Oh, we recorded on the 23rd.
On the 23rd.
So we got.
So we got the morning ones.
Yeah.
Well, we didn't get grimmel.
Right.
That's why I skipped the body.
All right, my bad.
Oh, here we go.
Even though their page was updated.
Their last distribution release was May 5th of 2011.
So it's been over six months.
For Mepis?
Yeah, I guess there's not keeping up with Mepis.
What can I say?
Well, they're not mint.
No, but they have a soft spot for them.
And I did run Mepis for a little while.
And some older systems actually installed antics or anti-X.
I don't know whether it should be called anti-X or antics.
But it's based on Mepis and it's a lightweight for older computers.
It works really well.
And it works.
It does work well.
I think.
As a matter of fact, I just used it.
I just used to live my old.
It's like eight, three or something.
Because I wanted to see the boot messages.
And because I was having a problem with my wireless.
Remember?
Yeah, yeah.
Because I'd switched back to.
And my wireless stuff working.
It was RF kill.
Ever hear of RF kill?
Uh-huh.
Go to the command line.
Type in RF kill.
That's it.
It doesn't kill anything.
That's the name of the.
You don't get.
You don't say for help.
Do RF kill slash question mark.
But what it does is it allows you to interact with your wireless radio directly and turn it on and off.
Uh-huh.
And I just went in there and it tells you what parts are turned on.
If you just do RF kill, it tells you what's turned on and what's turned off for your radio.
All right.
I'll try it.
That could be useful.
It might not be installed.
I had to actually install it.
Oops.
I got to say you have to say list.
See?
It's a task list.
And now they're all.
I'm not.
I'm not software block.
I'm not hardware block.
And I'm not software block.
And I'm not hardware block.
Everything's turned on.
Yeah.
Because the first time I did it.
Because I posted on the on the on the on the message boards and I got back.
The guy replied with just RF kill.
Which is enough for me.
You tell me I go find out how to use it.
And it worked.
Because when in the first time I ran it.
Two of the things were turned off.
So the other thing is like.
Yeah.
You do unblock all.
And then bam.
It turns everything right back on.
Oh, that's good to know.
No.
So, um, hardware block.
That would be an instance if you had kind of the.
I have a lot of switch.
Yeah.
And I have a hardware button.
Okay.
And pushing the button did nothing.
It didn't wouldn't turn it back on.
Really?
So, but when I did the unblock all.
Turned it right back on.
Well, what distro were you using at the time?
I'm going to have to slap you, Tony.
I'm going to get out of the way.
I told you.
Didn't I tell you?
I said that distro probably doesn't have the drivers.
No, no, it had the driver.
Somehow the switch got turned off.
And it wouldn't turn back on.
It was the problem.
Because when I first installed.
Did you try reboot?
Sorry.
No, he actually installed.
I actually installed two different distros.
I did more than just reboot.
It was making me crazy.
Because the first time I tried Mint 12.
I was working in mate.
And I'm trying to be productive.
Or surfing the net.
Take your pick.
And every three minutes it would pop up.
Because I was working in a wired environment in my house.
But I'm close enough to my neighbors and I could see their encrypted connection.
Every three minutes it would pop and say hey,
put your password into connect to this.
And I was like, go away.
And then three minutes later, go away.
And so I went on to the mint forms.
And they said, oh, just turn off your wireless.
So I turned off my wireless.
And they could not turn it back on.
And it started all day.
So it was mint.
It was not mint.
It was not mint.
It was not mint.
I'm going to have to say it was a complete peb-cac error on my part.
OK.
I will take the heat.
All right.
Because for those of you who are not like administrators out there or technicians,
peb-cac stands for problem exists between chair and keyboard.
Right.
So you're in the ID-10.
ID-10-T?
Yeah.
Definitely.
Peb-cac slash ID-10-T.
So that's all I have for the distros this week.
All right.
Oh, I think I'm going to install that SMS server, that distro,
and just check it out.
Because I've got a del-box sitting upstairs on the floor of my house.
And it's just sitting there doing nothing.
Well, it was my server until I took it offline for issues.
But I'll give that a try.
Yeah.
Well, if you can find that.
I just tried Google for it.
But I can't remember what it was called.
I've got it at home on a disk, though, so I can find out what it's called.
It's based on a bulletin when it's called like Fio-der-der-der-der-der-der-der-der.
I can't even freaking think about it.
I'll go the one.
But I'll send you an email.
OK.
Two, sir.
All right.
All right.
It's time for the tech news of the week.
If the vote on SOPA was delayed until mid-January at the earliest, the SOPA stop online
piracy act vote scheduled for 12-21-11 was postponed until January.
A committee spokesperson said that they will not set a new vote date until they return
from breaking January.
This means that the earliest that a scheduled vote could take place would be mid-January.
This is the second postponement of the committee vote on SOPA, which requires ISPs, search
engines, and other content providers to alter DNS records and search results.
Resulting in the censorship of foreign websites supposedly air-quote dedicated to providing
copyright infringing material, the committee has already had two marathon sessions that
ended abruptly after opponents expressed staunch opposition.
The artists are not the one behind this law.
The huge corporations, lawyers, and boards who are pushing this incredibly bad legislation.
Here is a list of the companies behind just one of the lobbying groups pushing SOPA.
Now this is a huge list and it will all be in the show but I'm only going to read a couple.
ABC, the American Broadcasting Corporation, BMI, big surprise there, CBS Corporation, Disney,
Publishing Worldwide Ink.
Yeah, that's also a big surprise.
EMI Music, also another big surprise.
ESPN, Major League Baseball, and the NFL, NBC Universal, and Viacom.
And like I said, the list is probably five times as big as that.
So check it out in the show notes.
Now you know who to boycott but you also have to let them know that you are boycotting
them.
Several grassroots organizations along with a few tech companies are putting forth a strong
effort against this legislation.
They have had some effect as arguably the most egregious section has undergone a quick
rewrite by representative Lamar Smith, the Judiciary Committee Chair, and sponsor of
this bill.
The changes reveal on Monday, 12-12, make the definition of air quotes again rogue websites
more narrow.
It also clarifies that the take down provisions only apply to foreign websites.
There were also several changes intended to alleviate concerns that this legislation
would interfere with the architecture of the internet because as it stands, this bill
would force American companies to break DNS.
The net coalition which counts AOL, eBay, Facebook, Foursquare, Google, IAC, LinkedIn, Mozilla,
and DNS, PayPal, Twitter, Wikipedia, Yahoo, and the Zingga Game Network.
And really, amongst all those websites, where else are you really going on the internet?
So as members is proposing a blackout day where all of these websites would go down and
just show an anti-soap message to visitors when they come to these sites.
Claims Mark Erickson who heads the net coalition trade association.
If all of these sites went dark at the same time, it would bring national commerce to a
screeching halt.
This action would also totally disrupt the lives of the majority of Americans, hopefully
alerting them to this serious issue and causing them to act.
Matt, I'm just going to jump in.
Did you read Amazon in one of those lists?
As supporting it or as a member of the coalition.
Amazon was not a member of, listed as a member of the coalition.
Okay, I was just kind of curious where they, where they, uh, I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah, I have no idea where Amazon comes down.
Okay.
Thank you, Linda.
You know, you got to get your Facebook apps.
That's right, I'm telling you.
And Facebook itself, do you realize if Facebook went dark, what would, it would cause panic?
It would cause panic in the internet?
It would be a lot of my time.
It would be.
Me too, actually, it's not.
They, they post, they're both that there's uh, 800 million users now.
I believe in it.
Everybody's on Facebook.
There is still time to try and defeat this horrendous legislation, and the people at
daily costs, that's KOS, have made it incredibly easy.
If you click on this link, and it'll be in the show notes,
and it's too long to read, it will take you directly
to a page.
They have set up that will walk you through sending
your representative an email, telling them to vote no
on this steaming biopiacal matter.
So you know what's funny about people,
I got an email from my web host this week, a one and one,
and they said they're coming out against it also.
Well, because after what happened,
let me get to the next story then,
because it involves GoDaddy's actually
participation in SOPA.
Really?
Yeah.
GoDaddy rescinds SOPA support after a huge boy
caught initiative.
GoDaddy actually supported SOPA.
Oh, I read that.
And now full disclosure here, I have a domain registered
with GoDaddy, but they are just the registra
and not the host.
So I'm not moving my one domain that is registered there.
So that's just for full disclosure before I go into the article.
On 1222, the fact that GoDaddy was actively supporting SOPA,
the really egregious part was that not only
to GoDaddy support SOPA, they actually
took such an active role as writing parts of it.
So a boycott was started on Reddit, which took off
like wildfire across the internet.
One day later, they announced that they
were withdrawing their support for SOPA.
It is, however, too late for many high-profile domains.
Wikimedia Foundation's Jimmy Wales announced on Twitter
that all of Wikimedia domains will be moved off of GoDaddy.
Cheeseburgers Ben Hu also pledged to move
his 1,000-plus domains off of GoDaddy.
Hundreds, maybe even thousands more people across the internet
joined them in leaving GoDaddy.
Why Combinator founder, Paul Graham,
issued a ban on all employees of any company
on the official list of SOPA supporters
from attending the YC demo day.
Here's what he had to say about the ban.
Several of those companies on the list
send people a demo day.
And when I saw the list, I thought,
we should stop inviting them.
So yes, we'll remove anyone from those companies
from the demo day invite list.
He then went on to say this, if these companies
are so clueless about technology
that they think SOPA is a good idea,
how could they be good investors?
Warren Adelman, GoDaddy's CEO had this to say
about them rescinding their support for SOPA.
Fighting online piracy is of the utmost important,
which is why GoDaddy has been working
to help craft revisions to this legislation.
But we can clearly do better.
He went on to say this also.
It's very important that all internet stakeholders
work together on this, getting it right is worth the weight.
GoDaddy will support it when and if the internet community
supports it.
This is a huge win for the free and open internet.
It shows that when you can manage
to hit a company where it counts in the bottom line,
you really can make them change their position.
When you read GoDaddy's statement,
the weaseliness jumps right out at you, however,
which leads me to believe that they're just trying
to take the heat off right now and we'll jump at supporting
the next minor revision of SOPA.
So yeah, I don't think GoDaddy's still in the bag
with SOPA to be high.
I think that it was a complete reaction
to the huge monetary hit they were taking.
Well, I think when you do transfer your single domain,
I've got to believe that's going to be the breaking point.
You do think that will be the breaking point?
I think so.
I'll keep that in mind.
OK.
And my next story is called The Debian Administrators Handbook.
I'm going to try and synopsis the information for you.
However, if you go to HTTP, colon slash slash Debian,
hyphenhandbook.info, you can read the whole story
about the book.
The book is currently published in French under the,
and I do not speak French and I'm going to butcher this,
but I think it is Cahier de la Admin, we think, Mary.
I think you butchered it.
I don't speak French either.
All right.
Debian, it is the work of two Debian developers,
Rafael Hartzog, who maintains deep package
along with several other packages, and Roland Moss,
who maintains our guy and a few other packages.
They attempted to have several editors take
on the English translation, but none were willing
to take the risk.
The two then decided to do the translation themselves,
and then self-publish the work.
In order to facilitate the translation,
they did a crowdfunding campaign, which
raised almost 15,000 euros.
They expected translation to be done
around April of 2012.
They however wanted to take this further and release the book
under an open source license acceptable to Debian
so that the book can be included in Debian
as an installable package, making it a simple app
getaway for anyone running Debian.
They have set this goal at 25,000 euros.
You can make a donation to the Liberation Fund.
That's what they're calling it.
Here, and again, the link will be in the show notes.
If you donate 10 euros or more, you're
guaranteed a copy when it is ready.
If they meet their goal of 20,000 to 5,000 euros,
then everyone will be able to get a free copy.
I made my donation already.
If I remember correctly, it was about $13.74 US dollars.
So I will get my copy.
But if we can push this over, it will be a great thing.
The last time I checked, they were at about 65% of their goal.
And I'm sorry.
Go ahead, May.
I was just going to say, and at the way the rate the year
is going, your donation will even be a peer bigger.
I think he's a really cool idea to have it on the app.
Yeah, just that app getting all the way.
And from what I've read some stuff about the French book,
it's very, very comprehensive.
So I'm looking very much forward to getting my copy
when the translation is done.
Because I use on servers, that's my preferred distro.
I just, like, as we talked about a few minutes ago,
install based Debian and then build the server from there.
And now a little bit about the book.
The book requires no prior knowledge of Debian.
It will cover all the topics that anyone
needs to become an effective Debian administrator
from installation and update to compiling your own kernel
and creating Debian pathgages from sources.
Along with backup migration and advanced topics
like SEO Linux, automated installation, and virtualization.
The first half of the book is for anyone
who wants to run Debian.
It will teach the basics like installing Debian
with the Debian installer, finding documentation,
basic troubleshooting, and problem solving.
Then the second half of the book is server,
is for server administrators.
It will discuss things like securing the server,
automating installations, using virtualization,
and setting up common services like Apache, PostFix,
OpenL.dev, Samba, NFS, and many more.
You can check out the complete table of contents here.
Again, link too long to read.
It'll be in the show notes.
There is also a free sample, chapter available,
the apt tools chapter.
If you would like to check this out to ensure
that the book is up to the quality that you would expect,
then you can click here, again, link too long to read.
It'll be in the show notes for a PDF of this great chapter.
It covers all of the apt tools like aptget, aptitude,
and other associated tools.
Now let's answer some questions that you may have
about this book.
You may ask yourself, well, who is this book really for?
The answer is anyone who's interested in Debian
from a regular user to the administrator of a small network
or that of a large corporation.
And again, it walks you right through from the beginning.
You need no prior Debian knowledge.
How long is this book?
The French paperback was about 450 pages.
So I don't know if that'll give you any idea
of how long the English version will be,
but the French paperback was 450 pages.
And what version of Debian doesn't cover?
The current book covers the current stable version of squeeze.
Now this book came out in French quite some time ago.
It came out back in Sarge, and they've updated
every time.
So it updates and covers the current release.
So what I believe will happen is if we can get enough money
to make it an aptget install away,
just a totally open source book,
that the next time that Debian updates from squeeze
to, I don't know, what's the next one going to be called?
Whatever toy story story story story story story.
Anyway, when they update to the next stable distribution,
the book will be updated also.
So come on, people.
Let's get out there and get your copy today
and move that project much closer to their goal
of open sourcing this book.
Well, man, I'm a big supporter of donating the project,
so thanks for making me aware of it,
and I'll definitely contribute.
Yeah, and if you contribute anything you want,
but if you contribute 10 euros or more,
then you're guaranteed a copy of the book.
So that's why I went with the 10-year-old donation.
Sweet.
That sounds reasonable.
All right, and my next story, 2011,
the year of the tech giant passing.
2011 has been a year in which we lost more tech giants
than ever before for a total of 14.
We'll start the list with arguably the best known on this list
and end with the one that I believe had the biggest impact.
Our first tech giant that we lost this year
was Stephen Paul Jobs, February 1995 to October 2011.
Jobs experimented with different pursuits
before starting Apple computers with Stefan Wozniak.
In the Jobs family garage, Steve Jobs vision
in the consumer electronic market is unparalleled,
hence Apple's many revolutionary product,
such as the iPod, the iPhone, and the iPad,
which are now seen as dictating
the evolution of modern technology.
And that's one thing that Steve Jobs and Apple did have,
even though I really didn't like his policies,
I don't know him as a person,
and I don't like Apple for the same reasons is,
when you think of closed source,
a lot of people think, oh, Microsoft,
well, I'll tell you what, Apple and Steve Jobs
makes Microsoft's build and build gates
look like Richard Stolman.
Okay?
Because Apple has their stuff so locked down
and they pursue it to keep it locked down so hard,
and Steve Jobs himself actually was an anti-open source.
He was actively anti-open source.
And to the point of that the only open source package
left in Apple up until recently was Samba,
because they needed to communicate in the Windows world.
And they've been working for years
to rewrite Siffs in Apple in the Apple OS
so that they could rip Samba out
which they completed this year,
and they ripped Samba out this year.
Because Steve Jobs was the very first
GPL enforcement action, did you know that?
I don't know.
Yes, he was the very first person
that was when he was running next.
He had a GPL piece of software in there
that he was not abiding by the license for.
So, and whenever the GPL people find this stuff out,
I think it's a free software foundation
that administers that.
But whenever they find that out,
they always send like a cease and desist
or a police comply letter,
and then they take the legal action well,
he didn't comply and then they took the legal action.
So, and then-
So it's been a vendetta ever since?
Yeah, yeah.
So, but you gotta give him do or do,
whereas, and his vision for consumer electronics
was just unparalleled.
The devices he created
are just became the standard.
So, yeah.
Moving on, the next one is gonna be Robert Morris.
He's the Unix encryption guy, July 1932 to June 2011.
Among the Bell Labs researchers who worked on Unix
with Thompson and Richie was Bob Morris,
who developed Unix's password system,
math library, text processing applications,
and crypt function.
In 1986, Morris left to join the NSA,
where he led the agency's National Computer Security Center
until 1994.
A little bit of a step there from Bell Labs to the NSA.
And our next is gonna be John McCarthy,
the originator of AI.
He's also the creator of the list programming language
and the father of artificial intelligence.
He coined the term in 1956.
In 1957, McCarthy started the first work
on time sharing on a computer.
The original project led to Maltix,
which then led to Unix.
In the early 70s, he predicted online shopping.
This prediction led researcher,
Whitfield Diffie, to create public key cryptography
used in the authentication of e-commerce documents.
Wow, 1970s.
Yeah, and to inspire Diffie to actually write the encryption
that he wrote, I mean, that's, yeah.
You can't get a, and because a lot of these people
are gonna mention real behind the scenes guys.
Like, I'd never heard of until I started researching this.
And so, and our next is gonna be Ken Olson.
Ken Olson, yep.
Do you know, but I didn't know about Ken Olson
until I did this.
The digital man, when he worked at MIT's Lincoln Laboratory
in the 50s, he took note of students
queuing up to use an older model computer called ATX-0.
Even when a more modern and much faster mainframe
was available, the big difference
and the reason that the students lined up for the ATX-0
was at the mainframe ran batch jobs,
and the ATX-0 allowed for online interactivity.
And by online in the 50s, I'm assuming they meant
with the computer itself.
No, no, no, no.
So, in 1957, he and a colleague, Harlan Anderson,
ran with that information and $70,000 in startup capital
to start deck, the digital equipment corporation.
Deck went on to create the PDP series of computers
of which Richie and Thompson created Unix on a PDP 7.
And the deck backs, too, that was it.
Yeah, yeah, oh, yeah, Deck made a ton of them.
I just, I needed to keep these fairly short.
So, I only mentioned the PDP series,
but yeah, Deck has, up until their demise,
I think, in the mid-80s, when I think
compact bottom in the mid-80s, they were,
it was IBM and Deck, and that was it.
If you had computers, you had an IBM or you had a Deck.
Oh, yeah.
Then we have Paul Barron, the packet man.
Barron, while working as a researcher for the ran corporation,
in 1961, came up with the idea that messages
can be broken down into smaller pieces,
then sent to a destination, even via multiple routes,
if necessary, and then put back together
when they arrived to ensure delivery.
Arpenet adopted packet switching as it means a communication.
Arpenet then grew to the internet,
and eventually for local area networks
in the form of Ethernet.
So, basically, it goes back to Paul Barron.
I always like to talk about, my favorite guy,
when it comes down to this level,
has always been Vint and Surf.
Vint and Surf was one of the two guys
that originated the TCP-IP protocol.
Okay, without the TCP-IP protocol,
we wouldn't be doing anything.
And I found out, when researching this,
without Paul Barron, we wouldn't have TCP-IP,
because he started rolling with packet switching.
So, yeah, these guys, and they,
and we've lost all these people this week.
And now, Jean Bartek,
last of the first programmers,
she's also the only woman on the list.
She was the last surviving member
of the original programming team for Anyac.
If you guys remember, Anyac,
it's the big giant computer that takes up
like a city block, but that understates her work.
She was the only female math graduate
in her 1945 college,
and she served as a lead programmer on the Anyac project.
Bartek also developed circuit logic
and did design work under the direction
of any X hardware developer, J Pressport Eckert.
So, but, and I didn't include this here,
but she retired at the age of 26
to become a homemaker.
So, she did all of that.
She did all of that before 26.
Wow.
So, yeah.
And then we have Jack Kill Wolf,
the disk-driven man.
Wolf did more than almost anyone else
to use math to cram more data into magnetic drives,
flash memory, and electronic communications channels.
In 1984, he moved to the new center
for magnetic recording research
at the University of California, San Diego.
It was a good choice.
Wolf and his students dubbed the Wolf Deck
cross-pollinated magnetic drive design
with information theory applying compression
in increasingly creative ways
and spreading wolf's ideas throughout the industry.
Basically, he was one of the guys
that originated hard drives.
Without his compression algorithms,
hard drives would still be the size
of the table we are broadcasting from.
LAUGHTER
OK.
So, and we've seen how his work's been taken
and just jammed down smaller.
Then next, we have Julius Blank,
creator of the Silicon in Silicon Valley,
June 1925 to September of 2011.
Julius Brank, blank, one of the traitorous eight engineers
who founded Fairchild Semiconductor 1957.
He and his seven colleagues had acquired that unsavory nickname
when they left Nobel Prize-winning physicist, William Shockley,
just a year after being recruited
to create a new kind of transistor as Shockley Labs.
Before going to college, he had been trained as a machinist
along with the eventual venture capitalist, Gene Kleiner,
Blank built Fairchild's machine shop
and created the manufacturing machinery
that would produce the first Silicon-based transistors.
So, yeah, him and the company that was founded
by these guys, Fairfield Semiconductor,
they started to use the Silicon-based transistors
which then became chips.
The machinery he built worked so well and was so adorable
that he did this in 1957, right?
In the 1980s, they opened a plant overseas
and they took all the original equipment
from the original plant,
shipped it overseas, sandblasted it, repainted it,
reassembled it, and it's making chips.
Wow.
That's so impressive.
Yeah, so, yeah.
And then we have Robert Galvin,
breaker of the AT&T mobile monopoly.
Galvin broke AT&T's monopoly on mobile phone service
in the US when he demonstrated a motor role of phone
for President Reagan at the White House in 1981.
Ronald Reagan then pushed the FCC to approve
motor role as proposal for a competing cellular network.
By the time Galvin retired as motor role as chairman
in 1990, the company dominated the cell phone hardware business.
Yep, because up until that point, AT&T had...
If you needed a mobile phone prior to this in 1981,
it was AT&T and that was it.
You had no choice in the US.
And motor role, they rose to prominence
and they kind of hit a decline a bit
and now with the droid series.
Well, because Google bought them.
So...
Any time you get an influx of cash like that, it's...
But, and next we have Gerald Lawson,
creator of the video game cartridge
and also our only African American on this list.
Born December 1940 to April 2011,
Jerry Larson, a six foot six,
more than 250 pound African American,
which was even more of an IT industry rarity
in the 70s than today.
Lawson's creation, the Fairchild Channel F,
arrived in 1976, a year before Atari's
first home game system
and sparked an industry of third party video games.
Lawson discovered the biggest challenge
with plug-in cartridges
was satisfying the FCC's radio frequency
interference requirements.
In a 2006 interview, he describes the process.
We had to put the whole motherboard in aluminum.
We had a metal shoot that went over the cartridge adapter
to keep radiation in.
Each time we made a cartridge,
the FCC wanted to see it
and it had to be tested.
Its biggest impact was on Lawson's friends at Atari
who rushed their own cartridge-based home system
into production
and the rise of the video game had begun.
So...
And then next we have George Devil,
the man with the robot arm,
February 1912 to August of 2011.
George Devil developed the first digitally programmable robot arm.
He also invented a system for recording sound
for movies in the 1930s,
then switched to systems
that used photoelectric cells to open and close doors
and sort barcoded packages.
Devil turned his inventiveness
to factory automation in the 1950s.
The large programmable unimate arm he developed
used magnetic drum memory
and discrete solid state control components.
It made its factory debut in 1961
on a General Motors assembly line in New Jersey,
stacking freshly die cast and very hot metal parts.
Within 20 years, Devil's unimation
was the biggest robotic arm company in the world.
And you know, have you ever seen any videos
of the car plants with those welders,
those single ones?
Those are his.
That's that machine.
Once it moved around quickly.
Yeah, and well those unibody cars,
dig dig dig dig, that's his arm.
And how your program is super cool.
There's a video out there on YouTube,
which I came across when I was doing this research
of not him, but like his lead guy at his company,
demonstrating this arm on Johnny Carson.
He may all fall and sinks it.
The arm also opens up a beer and pours it.
And then the arm conducts the band.
And the guy shows how you program it.
It's just, there's no programming.
And my 17-year-old daughter could program this arm.
You hook up a controller to it.
You plug it into the side.
And it follows the movements that you make the controller move.
And that's how you program it.
You say, like, it's something that says, remember.
And then you move the arm the way you need it to move.
Be this controller.
And then when you run it, it moves to the exact pattern
that you moved in it.
Oh, that's cool.
It is.
So it's super easy.
And it was an incredible innovation.
And if you get a chance, look that video up.
If you Google Unimate or Unimation and Johnny Carson,
I'm sure you'll find it.
It was pretty nifty.
And then Lee Davenport, any aircraft
innovator, December 19, 15, to September 2011,
Lee Davenport didn't invent battlefield radar.
He developed an anti-aircraft gun that
combined radar with a computer to control anti-aircraft guns.
At the Battle of the Bulge, the radar system
was also used to spot German ground vehicles
in the snowy terrain.
In addition, the SCR 584 was used in 1944
to defend London against German buzz bombs.
The SCR 584 crews were very effective
in shooting down the buzz bombs.
Something else I found out when I was researching him too
was those crews weren't initially very effective
in shooting down the buzz bombs.
Because he was in England at the time trying
to help him get these things up and running.
And he said he was in his wandering
rounds.
And when the buzz bombs were started coming in,
he would see crews reading the manual.
That's right, they're out of use.
They're shooting down these incoming buzz bombs.
So yeah, there was a lack of training.
But once he said, once they got all the crews up and trained,
the buzz bomb hits on London practically.
They just effectively took out the buzz bombs.
Sweet.
Then we have Wilson Great Batch, the heartbeat of the century.
September 1919 to September of 2011.
In 1956, Wilson Great Batch, an electrical engineering professor
at the University of Buffalo, made an electronic mistake
that led to the invention of the pacemaker.
He was building a heart rhythm monitor
for the school's chronic disease research facility
when he attached a wrong sized resistor to a circuit,
causing it to produce intermittent electrical pulses.
Great Batch realized that this might be used to regulate
a damaged heart.
Two years later, doctors at the Veterans Administration
Hospital in Buffalo demonstrated that a two cubic inch
implantable device built by Great Batch
could regulate a dog's heart beat.
In 1960 in Buffalo, 10 patients, including two children,
received Great Batch's device.
And its battery lasted two years or more.
In 1972, Great Batch was able to re-engineer the device
with a new battery that worked for more than a decade.
Now, he wasn't the only guy to come up with this,
however, you know how sometimes great inventions,
like if you go back to the...
Independent.
Yes, like radio.
Marconi wasn't the only guy,
but he was the first guy that got it out there.
So where, but in this Great Batch wasn't the only guy,
there was also a guy in, I think it was either England
or Germany that did it at the same time.
Because in 1960, he had actually implanted his device
in some patients before Great Batch,
but his only lasted like two months.
And Great Batch is at his down to where it lasted longer
than two years.
So that's why his took off,
because it was just technically better.
But, but yeah, it was, he wasn't,
there was another guy that did it simultaneously,
but Great Batch is the guy that did it.
And now our last person is Dennis Richie.
He's the original, an originator of Unix,
and he invented the C-programming language.
September 1941 to October 2011.
Dennis Richie is one of the authors
of the Unix operating system
and designed the C-programming language.
And he promoted both starting in the 70s.
You may ask, how influential all of that work was?
Well, just look at the number of close source Unix
clones we have today.
Not to mention their open source brethren, the BSDs,
along with Linux, which is a Unix work alike.
Not to mention C, of which eight of the top 10 programming
languages today are descended from.
So, I don't know.
I think that if we hadn't had Dennis Richie,
we would, the computer, and the computing we know today
just wouldn't exist.
It just wouldn't exist in the way we know it.
So, that's the person that you mentioned earlier
had the most impact?
Yes.
Gotcha.
So, yeah.
Well, thanks, Matt, that was quite a list.
So, I can see all those people alonger with us.
I just, you know, it was just something I thought
about researching.
Certainly.
We certainly appreciate their contributions.
Oh, yeah, it was, it's, it's, I can't.
Appendously.
Yeah, and if it, you know what I think the cause of just
having so many of them passed from us this year, too,
probably is, is that all this innovation really started
at about the same time.
So, they're all of a certain age and that age is old.
Yeah, so that's why the most of them were in like the mid-20s.
Yeah, yeah, that's one of them.
It was 99.
I'll look back to the 11.
Devil, or was it 11?
12, I think.
12.
Okay, nice to meet you.
Okay.
Yeah, he was 99 years old.
It's amazing.
So, yeah, and that's all I have for the news.
All right, I've got a couple articles,
but Mary, do you have something you want to talk about first or?
No, I think, I think I've pretty much covered what I wanted to cover.
All right, so I've got a couple here.
One is the Raspberry Pi.
That's that tiny little powerful computer.
Yeah, we talked about that a month or so ago.
Yeah, they, yeah, they, they're going to come out with
an updated version.
It has 128 megs of RAM, and the version without the network
is going to be 25 bucks.
It's without a little portal.
Yeah, yeah, because we, and if you look back,
I talked about this about two or three months ago.
Yeah, but it's supposed to be released this upcoming month,
they're supposed to.
Yeah, because that was just, that was all pre-release stuff.
They were, yeah.
And then $35 for the version with the Ethernet.
So something like this, you could literally get your
toaster running on Linux.
Yeah, and you could have a whole computer in your pocket.
You can walk around.
Well, it's like this big.
Yeah, it's size of a flash drive.
Just like, you know, I do.
I do seem to recall something on it.
Now, I have played around with the Tonito server, but that's
the power source for that Raspberry Pi server slash system.
Is it completely self-contained?
Do you have to plug it into something?
No, it's going to be, you have to plug it in.
So even though it's in your pocket, you're going to have a
cord to the outlet.
Right.
Yes.
All right.
Well, it's the Raspberry, the one that runs on USB.
Like you plug it in.
I think it, I think, yeah, I think if you plug it into USB, it'll run.
It powers itself into USB.
That's cool.
This one's showing, it has the running HDMI ports.
And they have 1080p video running.
So you can have it built into a, like, into a TV and have full
computer usage.
Yeah, that's pretty cool.
Well, thanks for mentioning that, I'll check that out.
Yeah, check it out.
Oh, yeah, check it out.
It's running.
They're playing Doom on it.
On the one I'm looking at.
Oh, yeah.
At least that looks like a Doom maze.
If I remember, my Doom maze is correctly, but it looks like
they're playing Doom.
Did you say, and Tony, did you share the price at this?
Yeah, the Ethernet version is $35.
At least that's their price.
And not even at $25.
Yeah.
Oh, wait, here it says it's powered by a 5-volt power supply.
So that could be a USB port or a battery.
Yeah.
OK.
So long as it works.
USB runs out of 5 volts.
OK.
Right.
We also have, I found, the year in review for Linux desktop
development in 2011.
That's on thevarguide.com.
Have you guys ever been to that website?
Thevarguide.com.
I ran across it when I was in the Yahoo News.
And it looks pretty interesting.
This article is by Christopher Tazzi, T-O-Z-Z-I.
It's Tazzi.
I don't know how to say his name.
I just went to varguide.com, and I got, please,
come back later.
Is it that varguide?
Oh, it is.
I'm sorry.
OK.
Yeah, I got the same name.
Oh, here we go.
Now it looks like it's going somewhere.
Yeah.
So he's talked about how Unity switch,
or Ubuntu switch to Unity, it's made a lot of changes.
Just they're from in the 11.4 and then 11.10.
They made updates, but.
It's still hated by everybody.
You know, it's amazing that.
No comment.
Unity sucks.
Unity sucks.
It's definitely a bit bad, man.
Hey, have you used it, Mary?
Have you used Unity all?
No.
I haven't.
I mean, I've seen the dust top.
I've used it.
I've used it.
I use it.
I use it, because I have the Ubuntu
network remix on a little network.
And I use it there, and it works well there.
But for the little bit of that I use that network, it's fine.
I can't imagine it being my daily productive working environment.
Well, I think what I like about it is the fact that all those icons
over on the left side, because I'm left-handed,
it's very convenient to have more on that side of the screen.
But again, I haven't really used it so much.
I don't know.
You can get me away from my traditional bar at the bottom
and my desktop with my windows that I can move around.
I'm pretty much hitting it.
I'm using it, and I know you're using it.
I don't think it's that bad, although I'm not sold on it.
I want to give it a couple of releases to try.
Although I do want to try out Nome 3.
If you try Nome 3, I would give the MGSE
extensions a chance first, and then turn them off.
Because you can turn them off one at a time.
And I think I would go in the opposite direction.
Really?
Yeah, try what they suggest.
See how bad it actually is.
Because I've heard a lot of people talk about it
and how they like it.
So, it's better than how they liked it, and then took it all back.
It's better than the, you know, a lot of people say
it's better than Unity.
But my thing is, I use like five programs.
I use the terminal, and I use Chrome and Evolution.
And past that, maybe two other programs.
So why not just have a hot, I mean, I
had the launchers at the top on Nome 2.6, or 2.8,
whatever, in the last version.
So it's basically the same thing on the side bar.
Because I use more than that.
On a regular basis, I'm using Chrome.
I'm using the terminal.
I'm using G Potter.
And I'm using LibreOffice, Calc, and Writer, and Presenter.
I'm using those, what was that?
Four or five apps?
So, but I don't know.
I just don't like it.
All right.
Well, the other thing is that you hit the logo,
and it pops up the lens thing.
That's pretty confusing to me.
It's an easy search.
You just type in, you want to change the monitor screen,
you just type in monitor, and it pops up right there.
I mean, if you're not averse to using the keyboard,
then it's actually pretty confusing to keyboard at all.
And perhaps you could get to like it.
No.
I have found mate, and I'm in love.
Yeah.
But he also talks about how the Nome 3 update is coming out.
And then in the summer, we had the Linux 3.0 kernel.
The Ubuntu software center, they started,
they came out with that a couple of years ago.
But now they're having pay versions of programs in there.
So you can link your PayPal account
and buy software through it.
So it's very similar to a marketplace,
or the App Store and things like that.
LibreOffice had their first official release was in January.
So coming up will be their one year mark for their first release.
And then the Ubuntu pre-installations.
It says even though it's not something new this year,
but ASIS has came out with a set of their networks
that are running Ubuntu.
Again?
Yeah.
Because a member of Windows paid all that money.
When Netflix first hit the market,
and I forget that big China tech show,
and they were all shown there, and they all were running Linux.
And then Microsoft, behind the scenes,
went to all of the manufacturers and basically given,
not really money, but they said we'll sell you Windows
to run on there at such a rate that they just all went with it.
You know what I mean?
And it kind of crushed Linux in the netbook at that point.
Well, it says I'm here.
It's only being released in China and Portugal.
So it's not like we're going to see it.
Unless Gibby, with his famous Chinese purchases,
that's, oh my god, with a netbook running it.
Right.
So it's pretty interesting.
And that was my two articles I could look up while I was waiting
for the ball to drop last night.
Yeah.
So yeah, that was some pretty interesting stuff, Tony.
I especially like that pie.
That Raspberry Pi.
I'm probably going to get the $35 version of that.
Just check it out.
Yeah.
That's pretty cool.
I think I will, too.
I didn't see any pictures.
So I don't know if it's going to be a house.
I saw like three different pictures of it.
Oh yeah.
Oh, but they were all of the beta version.
So there was no box ever.
There was no case on it.
So yeah, I'm curious to see what kind of case it's going
to be on.
Be very cool to run that into your home theater PC or something.
Oh yeah.
Be tiny.
All you do is like, you can fill a cart right to your TV.
How much on board storage does it have?
No on board storage.
So except for it's got enough to run the OS.
Right.
So it's got some flash storage, I'm sure.
Yeah, so maybe $5, $12.
That's got probably more than that.
Probably two gigs.
OK.
Because even the really lightweight stuff nowadays,
here it doesn't show the flash it's on it,
but it says for RAM has $12,000 next to RAM.
So it's really light work stuff.
Yeah, you're not going to be using this
as a desktop replacement, right?
Well, I've either of you heard of the Sheva plug computer.
The Sheva plug.
Yes, I have heard of it.
You were using it for a while, were you, Mary?
Well, I think I was using a branded version, Tonito.
OK, yeah, yeah.
And it worked pretty well, but eventually,
I was maintaining it in a room that was too hot for it,
I think.
I think I burnt it out prematurely.
But I broke it.
So I haven't replaced it yet.
But when it was working, I liked it.
You just plugged in, I just plugged in.
At the time, it was 500 gigabytes with a hard drive size.
So I plugged in one of those in.
I had all my music and all that, so I could stream it.
Yeah, and the nifty thing about it
was it had that web interface on it, right?
Where you could do it.
Even if you weren't inside your house,
you could do it across the internet.
That's right.
So yeah, that's cool.
And I use the non-standard port just to try to hide it.
That old security by obscurity trick.
We all know how well that works, huh?
So that's what I did.
Well, that's pretty cool.
Yeah.
I didn't notice any real listener feedback come through,
although we get a ton of spam.
So if you make a comment on the website
and it gets deleted, then email us
that show at smlr.us or go onto our website
and use the contact form.
Let me know.
So I can look for it or something, otherwise.
Because I'm using Ask Mitt.
And it goes through and it's pretty aggressively
hunts for spam on our boards.
So if it thinks you're spam, it all is going to dump you out.
So if that happens to you and you've made a comment,
just let us know.
We'll get it fixed up for you.
Yeah.
Or what about putting maybe a certain keyword
in the title of the comment?
Can you program that you're spam?
Yeah, put in that this is a real person.
Not spam.
I don't know.
It might be something to try.
Yeah.
I'm not familiar with that particular spam filtering program.
It's whatever comes with WordPress.
OK.
It actually works pretty good because there's a ton of spam.
And I generally read most of it.
But if you type something that says, oh, I like this article
and don't say anything about what the actual article is,
it's spam.
So I delete it.
So you got to put some actual thought into it
or make it so it doesn't look like spam.
So maybe use those spammers.
That's what they do.
They go, man, what a great show.
Now check out Wooji Booji by this now.
I put a big link in there.
A lot of them don't put the link in there,
but their link is their signature file.
Yeah, their signature.
And I'll tell you a couple of days ago,
I can't recall what I was searching for,
but I came across a couple of spam blogs.
I mean, it was clear that happened to me.
Yesterday, and it was the second link down in my Google search.
How does that happen?
It had no information about what I was searching for at all
and just tons of spam on the page.
How does that become the second link in my freaking Google
search?
Really good SEO.
Yeah.
The search engine happened to me.
There's actually a lady that was,
I can't remember the full story, but they were talking
about an NPR that she was convicted of slander.
Because she had some beef with a company
and then made up like 10,000 websites
that all said how this company was bad.
And new SEO.
So she was hitting the first 10 hits with her websites
before that actual company's website came up.
So she got convicted, but what she tried
to do is go to the company and says, no, I know what it's saying.
She was trying to say that she's not the person doing it.
I see all this bad stuff.
And for $10,000, I can get rid of it for you.
They can, you know, her as a person.
So she really told her to blackmail the company.
That's what she got convicted of.
Yeah, you know, I think it was.
It was blackmore back then.
Right, right.
And that was she in prison?
I think she just had, you know, I honestly
can't remember the whole story.
It's been about a month since I heard it.
But yeah, it's something strange like that.
All right.
All right, that's all I have.
Yeah, I think that's about it.
Yep, same here.
Thanks for joining us, Mary.
And hopefully this will be from normal.
Yeah, we'll look forward to it.
I, well, I'll tell you, I enjoyed myself.
All right, excellent.
You've been listening to the Sunday Morning Linux review.
This has been episode 12 for the week of January 1, 2012.
Mary says she may make up our intro music.
On her Thera-men.
We're working on her because we've
been looking for that intro music.
So we started.
Mary does have a Thera-men.
Featured music of the week.
Yeah, but for our outro music, I found this song.
Now, this was hard for me to look at.
So I was trying to find something that was new years.
But there was nothing I could really that I liked
that I could find.
So I just found this artist.
It's called, his artist is of the eye.
It has a picture of like an artistic eye.
Look, it's interesting.
But it's called Stopping the World.
So have a listen.
I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice,
I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait
to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear your voice, I can't wait to hear assistance.
A Sasha opened to you like this, you go away
Even worse I did, you know xR
And Ver of beating this unhealthy%,
Feel something, and here and again
Stop it now or else
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of this
I'm proud of you
I'm proud of this
I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so
sorry I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm
I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again
I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again
I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do
it again,
I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do
it again, I'm going to do it again
I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do
it again, I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again
I'm going to do it again, I'm going to do it again,
Today's show is released on the Creative Commons Attribute Show, Share a Like, Read Us Our License.
