Episode: 811
Title: HPR0811: creative commons torrent tracker
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0811/hpr0811.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 02:55:49

---

Hey cool, everyone. Welcome to Hacker Public Radio. My name is Klaatu and with me,
Viam Mumble is, well I know him as Thistle Webb but he insists his name is Gordon. How
are you Gordon? I'm actually Gordon, but yeah, everyone calls me Gordon, but online,
oh my, my next and that, oh, that's a word. So it's one of the same thing, you know what,
no worries. So Thistle Webb, I wanted to talk to you today about a project that you're
getting involved with and it's got everything to do with torrents. Why are you
interested in torrenting information? Torrents, as you know, it's an
efficient way of spreading the bandwidth of keeping the cost down
essentially and allowing people to create their own larger files without having
the cost of hosting it, it can basically be spread out quite a lot. What
occurred to me was, I'm sure it's occurred to other people, it's just a society
but there's like a gap that needs to fill. If you go to Torrents site now, you'll
find that a lot of the content on it is a legal content, it's movies, it's music,
it's games, it's whatever and there's also some legally-free stuff there as well,
but it's sort of a mix then and I figured that surely something was
specifically for a free legal-free content that would be a bigger thing, it would
also be something that acts as a set-danger because one of the things that
self-publishing or self-creating always limits, also limits, is in getting the
word out to people. Traditional industries have a whole network of stores, TV
ad-version, movie ad-version, TV theme tunes and whatever, they've got a whole
network to get a new song and new book and whatever it is under people's
nosies that self-creating, self-publishing, whatever it is, doesn't have that. So
it was sort of a two things in one that was to create a kind of set-danger and
to split the bandwidth and to use the term protocol, which is really a
fashion. That's definitely where the whole cliche of, or sort of the stigma of
torrents, I think, comes from and I think you're right, there's a noticeable gap
there in terms of torrenting being such a great idea and being such an
efficient method of distribution, especially as formats get larger and files
get larger. It's just such a great, great way to get stuff and yet there's not
really a central hub where we can find like the good stuff and so what's
what's your project? What's it? How's it going to fill the niche? One of the
things I noticed, if you go, for example, going to a torrent site and research for
other more Fedora 15 or whatever, and you find seven different torrents all
claiming to be Fedora 15, they're all different sizes, they're all ice
languages, they all appear to be the same thing, but they're all different sizes,
they're all posted by different people, they all claim to be legit, which one is
legit? Are there any of them legit? Are there any of them? Have they been
modified or they've been as a spiral of put into them? You know that type of
thing? So, the only way you can be guaranteed to get the proper legitimate
version is to go to the project site. So, the idea was to create, let's
actually, it's a few things, first off it's a we're going to create a content
management system, let's get back a bit and let's say we're going to create a
content management system. Now, Drupal is, I love Drupal, I do a lot of stuff
with Drupal. Drupal is a jack-of-all trades, you can do a lot of with it, but it's
not specialised in any one thing. PHPBB is a forum software, that's what it
does, it's a forum, it doesn't do much else. WordPress is a blog software,
well there's nothing like that for a website, there's a few bits and pieces as
I understand, but I'm not that great, the licenses are very restrictive, the
codes are mess, so the idea was to create a CMS that's designed around the
website with the ability to have plugins and themes and like Drupal, like WordPress,
so that people can download it and set up their own
websites, and the other thing is we're going to use one instance of that
website for our main website. When you say creating a CMS, what is that
encompass? To me, that sounds like a really big project and I'm curious, what
kind of functionality would you need in that framework? I'm not a developer, I've
tried to have a go-around in PHP, so as far as the actual work that's
involved, I'm not sure, and I expect that you're right, it will be a lot of work,
it won't be an overnight project, that's for sure. The idea is to try and build
it up over one term to build in different, but I want it to be an out-of-the-box
thing that people can install and it will work as a term, say, right out-of-the-box,
as a bare-bones term, and then you can add in various functions with modules
that come later on, it certainly won't be an overnight event.
Actually, you say that out-of-the-box will be functional on everything, so other
people can in theory use the framework that you're talking about for not only
a torrent-tracker or a torrent solution, but maybe for other stuff too, right?
Yeah, it's like building a car or building roads, that car can be filled with
anything and driving anywhere, and using it strictly for our own instance is
going to be very strictly legally legit torrents and legitimate content, but
putting that with various basic maintenance model on our instance of it. But
yeah, I mean, certainly anyone can download it and put on their own torrents, say,
in torrent, whatever they like, basically. And that's up to them. And if they're
learning legal issues, legal combat, on then, that's their problem, you know,
it's nothing to do with us. What I'm going to do, as I've
wanted to do, is when you first run transmission, the torrent client
transmission, it comes up with a lot of warm and you've got to accept, it's
basically saying that there's got content in some of the content on
cons of the legal time, aware of this, say yes or no, and meet, say yes to
help the work. And it's basically saying that on your own head there, and I'm
talking about doing the same thing as well, we're doing things very strictly
legal, but if people want to use it for other things, that's entire lot to
then, and it's their legal head that's in the loose.
Okay, let's step back for a minute, because like, if I were to go to a
completed version of your project, I say I'm looking for, I guess, any kind of
content, really, I mean, free culture content, whether it's a podcast or a
video cast episode that I've been following, or some clip art, or just independent
music, whatever, I go to your site, what do I see? Just a list of torrents?
Or is there something more to it than that?
Well, any torrent site is basically a search engine with categorized
links. I'm going to do the same thing. The first site is going to do the same
thing. It's going to have sections for Linux distributions for audio
cast, for video cast, for audio books, for e-books, and, you know, what
other else? The difference being that there's only going to be, we're also going to
use tags as well, I believe, it's probably going to be tags. And that way, you
can actually narrow down a few like, for example, Scott Siegler as an author, and
you want to get his audio books, and you can actually search for that, and
because it's not just any random josh mode that's uploading it, you're guaranteed
that each file is going to be unique. It's going to be correct. There's not
multiple grotties of it, and multiple different grotties, and there's quality
control essentially there. And the whole idea behind the maintenance model is that
people can maintain our package on a distribution on one
expression repositories. They basically keep an eye on whatever package it is,
Firefox. They keep an eye on Firefox, and when there's a new version of Firefox,
they go and package it and do whatever they need to do, and they've got the
reauthorization to get it up onto the repos for everyone using that
distribution to refresh and say, oh, there's a new Firefox. But I'm talking about
doing the same thing, the same concept, but with new content, where there's a new
Fedora, ISO has been released. That's my, that's my jawline onto that, go and
create the term, and put it on so that people can find it. So it's that type of
thing. So you've got the team with the quality, and it's so much easier to find
those new duplicates than that. Yeah, I mean, that's a great idea, first of all,
because I mean, maintained lists, I find, are typically very, very nice. I mean,
they don't have to be exclusive or anything. It doesn't mean that the
maintainers get some kind of ban hammer, where they can say, no, I don't like this
content, so you don't get to submit it or anything, but at least there's some
kind of quality control. So that's a very cool idea. The other reason that
they maintain a model is sort of a sort of obvious after you think about it, is
we want to make sure that all of the content is legally free and legally free to
distribute, because what I don't want is people to be able to upload
calculated content for a version of Windows or whatever it is.
And on the off chance that it'll get people to download it before it gets kicked off.
I want to avoid that all costs. I want to make sure that it's all legally
freely distributed. That's why no one anonymous can go upload.
That's a great safety to have. It's also really nice that, because I mean, that is a classic problem.
You go on to a torrent site looking for, like you say, the door of 15 ISO.
There's something labeled Fedora 15 ISO. Well, more accurately, there's 10 things labeled Fedora 15 ISO.
You have a one in 10 chance of getting the right thing. You click on the one that seems
legit to you. You download it, you open it up, and yeah, it's like a cracked copy of Photoshop,
or something stupid like that, or the ISO doesn't mount. The MD5 sum doesn't check out whatever.
There's like, there's so many different versions of them, and who knows which one is the right one,
all that kind of stuff. That's annoying. What does that, with the distributions, what I want to do
is include MD5 sum in the description as well, as well as include that in the torrent itself,
so that when you download the ISO, put a text file there that has the MD5 sum of that ISO in it.
I want to make sure that there's that. Another thing is well, there is actually a site in the name
escape me at the moment. There is a site where you can download my next torrents, or Linux,
ISO torrents. I don't use that. I've found that anything of check that it's always been at least
one addition behind. There've always been kind of a date. Sometimes you don't have very much.
I think it's kind of half abandoned, so it's not really that great. I say, I would rather
go to the project itself. For the people who maintain us, or whoever releases it, whoever makes
a final ISO for Fedora, or whatever, and they make the torrents for Fedora from the Fedora project
itself, it's just a case of adding an extra tracker URL into it. What I don't want is some
exclusive thing that says you can only choose our tracker. Don't use the ones you have been using.
I'm saying use the ones you have been using to add errors and rules of method as well,
so that it just adds more basically. We're not interested in an exclusive thing. We want to help
basically spread the word. Speaking of spreading the work and stuff, that is kind of a classic issue,
at least in my experience, when you go out to a torrent place, you find exactly what you want.
Sometimes it's even off of the official distributions site. You find exactly what you want,
and then you try to grab it, and it turns out there's one cedar from Australia on a dialogue
modem, and it's just why am I even bothering torrenting this? Is there anything that your idea would
do to ensure or to help, I guess, that there are actual cedars for the content that is listed there?
Right. You have the torrents that need cedars, that are only as good as the number of cedars,
and they don't have the bandwidth that the cedars have. I know exactly who you're coming from.
You get down to one or two people on the dialogue, but it feels like that.
We've got two ways of doing this. First of all, we are looking for donations. We're thinking about
setting up our page on Kickstarter to help get some donations, and do we get this off the ground?
The next thing we're going to do is open up donations with a flat-off paper. Now, what these
donations and part are going to go to is seed boxes we want to have at least taste that off with.
We want at least one seed box that's officially paid by the project itself, and it exists
to have a one copy of every single torrent that's on the site, so it's going to be at least one
seed. Even if everyone else has dropped off the face of it, as long as a seed box is up,
there's at least one, and the more donations we can get, the more seed boxes we can add to that.
The next thing we're going to do is a lot of content, a lot of user-generating content,
especially in forums. You get what the ranking systems for the number of posts you make. That's
kind of a bit sort of a bit false, or it can be manipulated by people who just add the next
to a forum post that says, yeah, good one. It doesn't add anything to the thread, but it's just
there to notch up another one post to the total. What I thought about doing was having an incentive
system. Some look at that, but based on seeding that way, and even have top 10 seeders per month,
top 10 seeders per month, well, yeah, probably per month, but I want to do it in such a way that people
small connections can still get into that top 10, and they can still compete against the people
with super far broadband pipes, because it's a percentage ratio of how much the shape, how much,
how long the time I failed for, how many fails that they see. So that's the idea. I want to make,
to hopefully get some sponsors in as well, and or prizes for that, and things that I might
be looking for is, I don't know, it depends on how the donations come and how the sponsorship
comes and that type of thing, but even things like a month of a seed box free for their use to
use whatever they want to use, use it for, or prize for a year, maybe Chromebrook or something
like that, but it depends on how the sponsors can come, and if we can get donations of prizes
to offer as incentives for people to see. How much of this project exists so far? Like,
today, where are you on this? The project, I should have actually said this at the start,
where Cobra2 is doing, he's doing a lot of the coding for us, a lot of the sort of behind the scenes
coding for us, I don't do coding, so I'm sort of doing the front end and trying to, trying to
organise a site, and all the sort of PR staff that's me that's been the public face, the public
voice, even, getting the world out and preparing to do blog posts, and we'll do that type of thing,
and really answer people's questions and whatever. But at the moment, we have a page
I've set up, this will be in the show notes, unseenstudio.co.uk slash tracker, and this
basically lays out the whole pretty much the plan as it is at the moment. A lot of it is still
details that need to be figured out and need to be discussed, but at the moment we have that page,
we have an IRC channel as well, which is on Freeload, it's pound, as you can see,
as we say in brown, and pound CC tracker on Freeload, so it's basically they are starting
discussing and start organising things, and we've got a lot of the actual ideas, the concepts,
we've got a lot of them down in broad brushstrokes, looking at them over and this, and this HPR,
a lot of the staff is basically still at common, we don't have any code yet, we did try,
we'll cover two, we did try, there's a tracker and a CNS, he was aware of, and he did try that,
and the trackers find they can use that, but the CNS is not feasible, so that's sort of back
to the drawing board, and that's why we decided we may as well do it right, going to be in for the
long slog, and we'll do it right, and we'll create something that's going to last, so at the moment
there's not much other than the concept and the enthusiasm and the sort of the places for start
to discuss it. Well, and a tracker, is that correct? So you actually have a working tracker that
you can use? We do have, we do have a tracker, yes. Okay, so I mean, so really at this point,
like if I had the nail you down and say, okay, I've got a team of people I can donate to you,
like what do you need done? Really your answer, if I'm understanding you correctly, would be,
we need a CMS designed for, as a front end for this tracker. But that would be correct, yes,
and the CMS, so a lot of the, a lot of CMSs are done in PHP and designed to hook in my SQL database,
as I said earlier, I love Drupal and Drupal as PHP about my SQL, but I'm well aware that that's
a more common denominator in terms of the more people that have those skills, the bigger pool
of people that we can call on to help. It's not necessarily the best thing for the job,
but it is the most widely used and it's always a case of if you're contributing to something that
already exists, then you're working in the language that's been chosen to build it in the first
place. Since we are building it from scratch to say the best thing to do is be as
agnostic as we can here and say we're open to suggestions on language and things like that.
It might be that PHP does sit at the best, it might be Ruby, it might be Pearl, it might be
anything, but the point is to keep an open mind and go on there rather than just, oh, that's
speaking of open-minded, how about if people were to donate, well, obviously they can donate
their programming skills if they want to help out on this, but what about if they were to donate,
for instance, you said you need dedicated seed boxes and stuff like that now. First of all,
I don't know what exactly is needed to be a dedicated seed box, I would think that it would be
you need a static IP and a server with some bandwidth and that's kind of like what you need to be
able to have for a dedicated seed box. So what if they donated, you know, if they said, hey,
I've got this, I've got that, I can be a dedicated seed box for you. Would that be the equivalent
of saying, hey, I've got some money here, here you go, why don't you go buy yourself a nice box
in an IP address? We're rooting for any help that people can give. As far as I understand with
term seed box and certainly the way that I'm using that term, it is basically a term client
somewhere that's on 24.7, that's what it's job is and it's simply that it may have thousands
and thousands of tons on it, but it's constantly seeding. That's basically why I mean there's
basically something that acts as a server and that it's switched on 24.7, it doesn't need to be a
static IP, it just needs to be connected all the time and if the power gets cut, then it gets
powered up reasonably quick and after the vacuum quit, it needs to be done and it's unplugged,
as long as it's plugged back in reasonably quickly. It's not an emergency situation, but as long
as it's plugged in reasonably quickly and fired back up and back to seeding, then it's fine.
And so yeah, I mean, anyone that can help out where seed boxes, that would be great,
or even just seeding the a lot of terms after they download, especially the more obscure stuff,
because anytime there's a new version of something that's really popular, it's going to have a lot
of seed there's a new way that the key is to keep the older stuff going, the stuff that's not
exactly new. So that would be useful developers, yes, that would be most welcome and most appreciated
designers, again, people for CMS, sorry, CSS, is a wonderful thing, but buckles your brain,
turning narrow down, and it's like, you change one certain, why is that not changing?
In a lot of what's your way through various trees, various branches of a tree to figure out,
but sometimes all the right things, CSS is a bit hairy at times, but we're going to do it right,
we want to do it, we're going to do it right, we're going to be fully standards compliant,
you know, so any, any kind of help and madagab would be, would be helpful as well.
What about clear bits, and I think Vodo, or something like that, aren't those free
torrent trackers that I'm, that I've kind of heard of, or legal torrents, something like that,
I've heard of some of these things I thought. I've never actually had a lot of errors to be honest,
I should mind you, and so I've never had a lot of errors, and part of the thing that sort of
caught my mind is sometimes I'm looking for clear commons energies to use in something,
and they only place it that I'm more of to go and actually look for them as clear commons.org,
and they've got their own search engine, which is terrible, absolutely terrible. There are only
those lunatic things, only those damages, clippart, and not too well. So yeah, it's basically
to try and be what they should be, product by torrents. Nice, yeah, that's a, that's that search engine
on, on, on there is really, really bad. I remember being very underwhelmed by that. Yeah, I mean,
a lot of things that, yeah, a lot of people would, they can't, don't really think about the
bit of which media, as you said at the start, with audio cars, with video cars, with large files,
especially if they're getting hammered a lot, and then worried, and awful lot on a short time.
People don't really, they forget that they don't understand how much of a strain that is in
server, just how much of a pounding a server takes to actually do that. So they think, right,
okay, it's just that, it's just a, it's just a 50-meg audio, audio track. What's the difference?
You know, I'm all with them one at once. What's the difference? Why isn't it just on, on the website,
you know, search, createifcomments.org, and more like download the log file on MP3 file or whatever.
But people just don't realize how much of a strain that is, you know, that's why it's, it's a,
it's a barrier, basically, and people putting these things out, they've got a voice as a barrier,
and I think I'm starting to repeat myself. I don't know.
Uh, no, I mean, I, I agree with you in terms of, of torrent is just, it's the smart way of doing this.
It's, it's, it's just a smarter way of downloading period. And the fact that it's almost a,
it's not the de facto, you know, it's something that you have to almost go out and look for,
you have to say, gee, I would rather torrent this thing that I want to grab from the internet.
Now, how can I go and find a way to torrent it? And that, that frustrates me because I really,
really like the idea of, of torrenting. I like that protocol. I like that concept. And it,
it, it's silly to me that you have to go out of your way to make that happen. So, again,
I think that your project idea here is, is a great, great answer to that prop where you say,
you don't have to do that anymore. You come to our torrent stop, our little hub, central thing.
You find the file and you, you download it. And it, and it is a torrent. And there are dedicated
seeders and, and there is incentive for you to keep seeding, you know, the whole nine yards.
I think that's a really, really brilliant idea. So, what's the, what's the first step? I like
workflow. Is I want to hear what do you need to happen first for this to, I guess, to take off?
Or what's first on your to-do list for this project? Right. I was just waiting to quit by
in there. And one of the things that, that we are looking to do longer term is to have it so that
you can actually subscribe to audio casts, to video casts with Tompede. Nice. So, I'm not sure
how we're going to do that, but I would like to be able to do like a Tom type of an audio cast
tape thing to say that's, that's somebody I've been wanting. I'm not sure if we should ever
do that. That would be fantastic because it's not like my show, my little canoe world order,
aug casts, suffers from too many downloads by any means, but I would just love to be able to
support the idea of torrenting and getting it out there and saying, hey, you can RSS,
subscribe, you can subscribe to my RSS feed, get a torrent file delivered to your pod catcher,
and then it will start torrenting that file, and that's how you can get my show. That would be
so cool. So, there's another thing that we'll say, I don't know if I mentioned this earlier or not,
but there's another really key thing here is when most of the people who create Creative Commons
content, they're just average men and women, they're not professionals, they have a voice,
they have something to say, they've often got other things to do with their time, you know,
they get an hour, once a fortnight to the court, a quick half hour sub talk on whatever subject,
whatever the hobby is, and they put it out. The one thing that the traditional publishing method,
the legacy publishing method have, that really in their favour, that it's need to find some way
to get around us, is they have the ability to get, to spread the word, to get those shows
into the under the nosies of people who are interested, and that's, they really have that nailed
down all of this aviation. Anytime self-publishing, self-publishing seriously likes that, unless you've
been recommended to a show, you might not even know exists. I mean, I've come across a show called
If I think excuses because Marie from Flutter, she dented, she lessons to that, but all that says,
we're interested, I've got an F as an interest, they like that, I never knew about that until she
mentioned it. So that's one of the things that, because it's a central sort of hub of stuff,
free, legally free stuff, it sort of encounters that, it makes our own little distribution network,
to allow people to explore and find stuff, but they would never even have heard about before,
but it's creative, it's creative commons, free, they can bound, without even subscribing,
whatever. And not only that, for people who are creators themselves, who are looking for,
for example, music to put on, to put on different kind of their own shows, they know that anything
they find on our search engine, our tournets, I think, is legally free, and they can do that,
they hear a touching, they can play it as long as they respect the licenses that's on it,
and that that reminds me of another thing, there's going to be a section on each description for
exactly what license that's on that as well, so you can see that in the description.
So, what's the first step here? What have you gotten in mind? What's at the top of your little
to-do list? Right, the to-do list, the very first, for the start of this, is to get some names
going, and what I wanted to do is instead of just going, and we're just on my site and starting
building it, I wanted to actually put this out to the people, and let the people who are interested,
submit names for sites and names for projects, because one thing that I do not want to do,
I've seen accusations of project sites before, where they've got to start off with the greatest
intentions, and then go and look in their IRC channel or their forums, all they seem to be doing,
trying to discuss, what do they call ourselves? Yeah, I've seen those projects, I know exactly what
you're talking about. Yes, a name is important, but that's only the very start of it, and I'm
perfectly well aware that I don't want this project to be carved with that blush, I want to go
out of the way to ensure that does not happen, and the only way I can think of doing that is to get
out over and done with the right of the start, to say, to lay at the project, the names of
suggestions, and how people submit suggestions for names, at which point, because they're off,
not all day, not all day, not all day, and then register the site and start building,
and start actually doing stuff. Okay, so you're going to get people to actually come up with name
ideas for you, which I think is great, that's very democratic of you actually. Do you intend to,
I don't know, manage the rest of the project in a similar fashion, or is it just sort of feedback
from the community for a potential name, and that's it. I mean, I'm sure you'll be open to
community feedback, but I'm just wondering how the structure of the project will be, I guess.
Yeah, well, we're actually looking for a few things as far as names are concerned, but the reason
I would say that we're doing that is we want to get that all one done, get that settled, so that
can move on to the actual creation of the code and getting that done. As far as the rest of the
projects concerned, I mean, I can only go on what I've seen of the way that some other projects
have run. I'm all in favour of a community, I really want us to be a community than this,
this is not about me, a lot of it was my idea, but that doesn't mean anything really, the bottom
line is this is a community thing, and I want people to remain that way. We have things that we want
as sort of lines in the sand, and things like, I mean, I don't want to use a model, for example,
for the code base, I don't trust model, I would rather build something that does not involve
the agility and poverty over above me, you know. Things like that, you know, draw the line at
and say, no, we're not doing that, and there are other things that make them, of course,
somewhere around the line that we say they're definitely are going to do. I mean, I want to be
fully transparent about this as well, to make sure that any donations are not coming to me,
they're coming to the project. I want to do everything as open and transparent and as
democratic as possible, as that's actually the key. I mean, I'm looking at things like the
Driftle Project, where we've got a key group of people who are Driftleistas, they are basically
the veto, when people submit new things, it's them that check the code, it's them that make the
and the key decisions, but the whole community involved. So it's sort of a, that's kind of what I'm
going on. As I say, the details, details, details, everything's open for discussion at this
stage. I want to be as transparent. I'm not interested in doing any of this as proprietary or any
of this as we'll have a little secret cabal, you know, IRC channel, the only staff are allowed
into and we're we can have a laugh at other people. I'm not interested in doing that. I'm just
not going to do that. So it's going to be as democratic and as free and open as we possibly can be,
but with the ability to put the food down, and I was wondering if it's going to be.
Okay, so where should people go to? Well, I think you gave the website already. We should probably
mention it again to find out more information about it. What about suggesting the names for the
project? Where should people contact you for that? Yeah, the website is UnseenStudio.co.uk
slash tracker. UnseenStudio is a different project, but I'm also doing with Kerry, which is
a lot of your cast network. I'm on other things. That's not what we're going to talk about.
That's what that site is, and I wanted to put up a page that goes through some of what we're
talking about here in more sort of laid out way and a more logical way, because we know that
I've forgotten some of the stuff that's written here. So yeah, if you go there and what we're
looking for, there's a few suggestions for names. There's a web form and click on and submit it.
So I'm looking for, first of all, I'm looking for a name that's the project name, and that would be,
and then the project name is, for example, Mozoa.org as the Mozoa project, and their products
are their packages are by folks and from the top, whatever. So I'm looking for something,
a name, something that's catchy, something that's funky, but clean. I mean, I'm quite happy to
swear this. I want all these names to be clean and family friendly. It's important for branding.
So we're looking for a name that we can mark it. We have to go to download the CNS once it's
ready. We have to go to take part in the discussions in that type of thing. I'm looking for that.
We're looking for a name of the software itself, like Firefox. We're looking for something that's
catchy that people can download and go, I want to set up a font, say, a bone download, X,
whatever that name is, and we sort of completely build that up into a brand itself.
The next thing we're looking for is, and I'm really going to have to resist the temptation here
to try and influence this one. But the next thing is a naming scheme. They've got the
visual ECs named after Toy Story. So we've got screen use and crazy and various other ones.
I'm going to skip over that in case I let my bias slip here. So we're looking for
some sort of a funky naming scheme that's kind of unusual. We're looking for
that. The other thing we're looking for, I forgot to mention, is we're going to have an audio
curse attached to this. We're looking for a name of the audio curse as well. What's the audio
curse going to be? The audio curse is sort of two sides. One is, I'm looking at maybe a monthly
kind of round table where it's not the same host every time. It's just where they're available
at that time and wants to join in on whether a mumble and group conference call or whatever
to discuss things for about an hour or maybe a little longer, I don't know, again details.
And basically the idea is discussions on things around the surrounding
copyright and changes to laws and the protected IP and act on. All these types of
things, maneuvers by the legacy industries to block out torments and block out sharing
and speculative invocating and copyright, dubious copyright claims and DMCA requests and
all that type of stuff. The more socially, politically, that sort of stuff. So it's discussing
any of the new stories that have taken place over that month about that. It's just whatever
happens. So that's the main thrust of it. To educate people is to what the legacy industries do
to screw people over, basically, and how badly they treat people. The flip side of that is
what I want to do is have a sort of a best of when a new audio cast appears on the
torments side. Then it's basically saying, oh, there's this new show and it's about such
and such and it's hosted by such and such and person to a couple of episodes, it's quite cool,
so it's to take them a little bit of a promotion to new content, new shows, new
distributors, new, whatever it is that I've came on to the torments side. So it's sort of
as well as discussing stories of certain such as release the creative comment, like Trent Rezner
or whoever has released his new album on the pirate barrier or whatever. So it's that type of thing.
It's a whole discussion, sort of partly looking at kind of legacy stuff and partly promotion of
what creative comments and that type of thing. I didn't catch, you probably said it. What are
there, you're looking, the audio has to be a fairly open cast of hosts, is that correct?
Yeah, but want it to be sort of the way that I perceive Golanics Cranks to be
fair by, there's all different hosts and you've been on Golanics Cranks a lot,
where it was when it was going, but every fortnight it would be maybe different hosts,
you know, there's some people with either the last nine that they couldn't call in,
called in for two or two episodes or three episodes in a row and then they didn't hear from them
for six months. So it's basically whoever's available at the time and whoever's interested
and taking part. Got it. Well, while you were talking earlier, I checked out that little web
form for the name suggestions, seems to work, seems to be pretty clear on what you're looking for.
So I guess that's really where people should go first and then they should hit up your unseen
studio.co.uk slash tracker for really a complete, I've been reading through it and yeah, I mean,
it's very, very complete, it's really nice. So I don't know, unless we skipped over anything that
you can think of, I think this is, I think this gives everyone a pretty good idea of what you're
thinking about. Yeah, there's only a thing that I think, of, that we haven't really mentioned yet,
there's, I want to tie in to the existing, the EFF and GNU and the SFLC and things like that
and Creative Commons to help cross-promote them and hopefully get them involved as well and
and then help them cross-promote us and say, well, if you want to go and get taught the music and
you know, this is ASite and probably will be ours. Hopefully after a while, once we get a work
and CNS and other people will be able to set up and do exactly what we've been, but on their own
way and hopefully that'll be Creative Commons as well. I mean, I keep saying Creative Commons,
but I'm talking about anything that's legally free to distribute. BSD, MIT, Alliance and stuff,
GPL, AGPL, whatever, you know, Apache. It's all good. Now, Creative Commons or whatever. So yeah,
we want to tie in to other free culture and civil liberties, open rights groups and all that.
So with that, I'm talking about, I didn't actually get it, I'm not a gamer anymore,
but the humble in-day bundle, then your partner, then you go to buy that, you can select a certain
amount of word donation or your fee to go to a believer's eFF. But what I would like to do is
something similar to your people, if they want to donate money to us and they can have a drop-down
menu and give a certain percentage of that to whatever, you know, Creative Commons itself. You
know, all these projects, whatever one or that they that they like, so they can donate us and
others as well. And it's all, it's all good cause basically. Cool. Great. Sounds good. Well,
thanks for coming on the show and talking to me about this really, really cool idea. Best of
luck on it. I'm sure you guys will do really cool things with it, whatever, you know, whatever,
however, quickly or slowly it progresses. Look forward to seeing where it goes. Yeah, this is,
this is the school bombing, I think, for all of the best way to put it, but yeah, this is
as often, often I start and I should take off once more people hear about it. And this is a
suppose, I suppose this is the start of the PR grid and not naturally a PR grid, but we'll go
over a bit. So thank you right now. I've kind of long given myself above. Yeah, well, thanks
very much. We certainly look forward to the event of you and now we'll see you later.
Cool. Okay. Thanks a lot. See you.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, where Hacker Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday and Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it
really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and new phenomenal computer
club. HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are crowd
disponsored by linear pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunar pages.com
for all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative
commons, attribution, share alike, details or license.
