Episode: 258
Title: HPR0258: Xmas Special
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0258/hpr0258.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 15:04:06

---

.
Recorded live.
Hello.
Greetings.
Howdy.
What's up?
Who's on the phone?
This is Totem Puff.
Hi, guys.
How's it going?
Not bad.
He said he was calling in.
He's singing, right?
Yeah.
I don't exactly know what I'm doing here, so I'm just laying around with it.
So far, again.
Yep.
Good, good.
I think this is going to be a complete cluster, but we'll go with it.
Yeah, it'll be like a freak factor.
Yeah, yeah, something like that.
That was the general gist of what I was going for, the freak factor thing.
And it's going to be up on tomorrow's episode.
So it's an easy way to do an episode for Christmas.
Nobody's doing anything.
Yeah, I think this is going to be my first show of the year.
I think so.
Back in the day.
It's like, you know, a holiday at 10 p.m.
That sounds like a time I could handle.
So you're not working in other words.
Right, right, right.
Exactly.
Yeah, I don't know this, this talks you things new to me.
So I'm, yeah, I had to figure out how to put in a pen and I'm confused.
Very, very confused.
I failed the internet.
Oh.
And where's my other shows don't cost.
I just finished with school for the semester.
So now I actually have time to do another show.
Even though I have to sort of throw together a nodicon talk.
Do you speak in a nodicon?
Huh?
Do you speak in a nodicon this year?
Yep, yep.
I don't know if I will make it out to nodicon.
I'm going to try it for Defcon.
Oh, Defcon should be pretty fun, especially since it's at the end of July this year.
Yeah, it's usually the end of July.
I'll have to try to make that.
I have almost too many personal days saved up.
Looks like Mr. Scots having a problem.
Yeah, that's deep geek.
I don't know why he's saying it to the whole list, but okay, whatever.
I was looking up how many shows you actually had.
Well, you have one this year.
And it was on, yes, this year it was 0206.
Really?
Yeah.
Oh, that's right.
Yeah, I was forgot about that.
That was back in February.
And you know, we still haven't missed a show yet.
I'm impressed.
You win it in 157 up there.
But, yeah.
And I've only done seven, which is amazing.
And class is done nearly 30, but we won't go there.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, 2029.
And deep geek is a 21.
And Dave's deviates is at 19.
That's the top three.
So, yeah.
I don't know if anybody else is going to show up, but I'm going to hang out here for a while.
Feel free to go and come as you please.
I have nothing really planned for tonight, other than talking about what you're getting for Christmas.
Actually, one of the very few things I asked for was an Arduino.
So, that should be fun.
Oh, nice.
Yeah.
I'm pretty excited.
Yeah.
Oh, what?
Go ahead.
So, that's what Drupes and Morgana talked about, an autocon, right?
That Arduino thing?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, did they talk about is this an autocon or a Freaknik?
Oh, I think they're scheduled for an autocon this year.
Yeah.
It was Freaknik.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Looks interesting.
I want to see Morgana put together one of those shirts he was talking about.
He was going to hook me up with some HBR shirts that had the...
That had LEDs in them.
I mean, flash different colors.
Yeah.
He never got around with that.
Yeah.
It's pretty cool.
I don't know if you know OpenFly, but he made...
He took...what is it?
What is it?
One of those old camo jackets that they use in the Army.
And putting some LEDs in has scrolling messages on it.
It's pretty cool.
It's on the New York resistor website.
Nice.
Yeah.
I know OpenFly, I've seen him at 2600 meets.
Yeah.
Well, I think was he in the event and autocon this year?
I know he was a few years back.
Is he what?
We all took a event and autocon from the New York area.
Yeah.
I know he was in the wrong bathroom.
Yeah.
And I think he's doing it again this year.
Okay.
Anybody else having trouble with IRC or is it just me?
No, I'm connected.
It might just be you.
I think it's just me.
I see Coder and Enigma connection, timed out, connection reset.
It looks like he's going back to bed.
He got fed up.
Did he ever finish his arch and stall?
I know he was talking to Coder.
I know he was talking about arch earlier.
He was trying to install it.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I don't know.
He's talking about the other day too.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
It's like a 10 minute process.
I don't know.
I don't know what he was talking about.
I don't know what he was talking about.
He must have been a rough week.
Yeah.
A bunch of people said they were going to show up with the tank.
I guess I can expect much for Christmas.
For Christmas Eve, but, you know, hey, what the hell?
Right.
Well, I want to hear some clotsy singing.
Yeah, I know.
I know.
And he said he was all fed up, so that should be rather entertaining.
Well, the back story about that was he told me he wasn't in the thing.
Oh, so you're just...
Yeah.
Nice.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, he didn't want me to hear him sing or something.
Oh, okay.
Good times.
Anyway.
We got to try to force it out of him.
Yes.
We can force it out of him.
And I don't know.
My free-node connection is just like totally host.
Good times.
Like I connected, but when I joined him from Alacon,
it was only one in the channel.
Once I spelled it wrong, which is very possible.
Oh, there we go.
I must have spelled it wrong.
Because I feel all at the internet.
Actually, that's a different nickname now.
Yeah.
Oh, you have up to now anyway.
It kicked me to that.
It's always like...
Somebody stole my...
I named my nick on...
It's an error on free-node.
So I have to go and nick the zero.
Okay.
Okay.
All right.
My house caught it.
He was supposed to stream this.
I guess we're not streaming now.
Because I told him my internet might not be too reliable.
Because I didn't know where it was.
So he was going to stream it on the DDP Hack Radio server.
And yeah.
It's not going to stream.
Oh well.
We'll do it.
I'm going to try to do more of these like live shows,
like once a month for that season.
Because season two starts in January 1st.
Okay.
It's pretty cool.
Have any topics lined up to that,
or if it could be sort of...
We're like seeing it by ear.
Round table type discussion.
Okay.
So we were just going to pick a topic every month
and then we were going to talk about it.
And then I was going to use the mail
to come up with the topic.
We all want to talk about it and see if it's available for us.
Did anybody else start it here?
Is that a Gecko?
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Okay.
Yes.
Somebody else started it.
Yeah.
I'm going to pick Killer Smurf from Canada.
Oh, hey.
Who's that?
It's Killer Smurf from Canada.
Oh.
Okay.
Hi, Killer Smurf.
I'm Ignorant.
So.
Hey, Merry Christmas.
Guys, how you doing?
Oh, not so bad.
How you doing?
Not so bad.
I'm going to have to make this call short.
Oh, I just wanted to pop in.
I'm going to pop in a bit later.
Are you going to put the kids to bed?
Try it with you guys in a minute.
Alrighty.
We'll be here.
Okay.
A lot of better.
Anyway.
I'm not going to be so good at it.
Um, I, I, I, he might have just put his phone down.
Yeah, I'm almost waiting for that static to go away.
Yeah.
Oh, I'm looking at the chicken here.
Alright, I'm, yeah, that was him.
Okay.
Okay.
Much better.
Yeah, if you look, if you're on the web client, you can see who's connected.
And then I can unmute and mute people.
Okay.
Um, he, I think he muted himself.
He's still connected.
Interesting.
Because you guys are anonymous.
Because I guess you don't have to talk to your accounts.
And he died.
Right.
So yeah.
Yeah, but it shows where you're from.
That's kind of interesting.
Hmm.
Like it's, well, it shows that you're in Tampa.
And you're in New Jersey.
That's close enough.
Well, for a second, I was, for God, I moved.
I'm like, I'm not in Jersey.
Well, the phone number is registered for New Jersey.
Right.
That's true.
My phone has always been with the 973 set.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's kind of cool.
And then if you have a talk to your account, it actually shows the user name.
Hmm.
The first time I ever used this, so it's interesting.
Very interesting.
Anyway, back to what I was talking about.
I wanted to do a round table type thing for season two.
It's an easy show to do.
And I figured, you know, it would be somewhat entertaining, I guess,
rather than me putting, you know, logs up for something, something differently.
I don't know.
Yeah.
You got any ideas?
Any other ideas you can toss at me, as you don't like about the show,
like about the show, whatever.
I'm doing it.
Because I've got nothing better to talk about right now.
Well, let me usually very fresh out of ideas for anything.
That's no fun.
You're killing my airtime here.
So, yeah.
I'm killing dinner.
So I wanted to do that.
Those are the round tables.
And I wanted to do lots of measuring thoughts, things for season two.
Well, a lot of you is going to be helping me out now as my backup.
So he's going to be the admin, I guess.
My little code monkey.
I'm okay.
What do you want?
Yeah, he doesn't show up the first night.
He's officially a code monkey.
Thanks a lot, too.
I'll see you later on there.
Thank you.
Okay.
Anyway.
So within on board, hopefully I can get a break.
It takes me probably five to twenty minutes a day,
depending on the show, to post.
And then if you have to go in and mix it in,
then it takes a little bit longer,
but it's fun times, good times, good times, I buy all.
So what else are you in for Christmas time changing the subject now?
I think I'm getting one of those gluey pads from Sparkfun,
which should be pretty fun.
So I have no idea what else I'm going to do.
I don't know, I didn't ask for too much though.
I'm getting my parents a new monitor,
because they're using a CRT from God knows how long.
It does a whopping 1024 at 60 hertz.
This friend just called, I just chimed in.
Hi, this is Lexi.
I got some top-signophonial.
Yes you are.
Hello.
Hello.
Greetings.
So it goes by the curry coat of the collar.
She's sitting right here next to me,
so I figured it went by the area.
I don't know my physical location,
because I am not in South California.
Interesting.
This is on here.
Is Guadaluo?
No.
Nope.
He's an easy lady.
It's Tottenham Poss and Lico.
Hello.
Welcome.
Greetings.
Lico.
Lico.
Great.
It's a name right.
We just dropped your dots.
I know, damn.
I'll edit that out,
because we're not streaming live.
Right.
No, I won't.
I'm lazy.
I don't do any editing.
All of a sudden I get a huge influx of emails and stuff.
Yes, yes.
You get the crazy stalkers that are...
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
I want to stop the quality.
You can talk to me about...
I have a presence for Christmas.
Yes.
Okay.
When dealing with a hacker you can never go wrong with electronics.
Exactly.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
We're like an easy thing to make.
You shut up.
You're not getting an EEPC.
That's just a box.
Okay.
She's next to me.
Yes.
Yes.
Don't tell her.
She just told about a thousand people to let me download and show them her.
Okay.
They will tell you.
Until tomorrow.
Until tomorrow.
And then you'll have a look at this, right then.
Good point.
Yes.
Yes.
OK.
Yes.
Really?
It's pretty cool.
Here, let me try to find a link real quick to post in the room.
I don't know where I'm at.
like five or six different rooms right now, pound podcast.
Yeah, that would be one that I told you.
Okay.
So what the hell is going on?
I just got this link off of 4chan and I decided to come troll you guys.
4chan, damn.
Yeah, this link is all over 4chan.
There's going to be like 50 people showing up any minute now.
No.
It would be more entertaining than what we're doing now.
So what are we doing now?
I don't even know what's going on.
We're talking about Christmas and techie gifts and stuff.
Also, who are you guys?
Totenkov.
Totenkov.
Totenkov?
The name sounds familiar.
Isn't that like some character from a video game or something?
Nope.
Think Prussian and Napoleonic Wars.
Oh, you might be right.
I do study history so that might be where it's coming from.
So who else we have here?
Flickr.
Flickr, isn't that like a photo sharing site?
I don't know.
You know, I came up with the name so long ago I had no idea what it was from.
Oh.
A Nigma and what?
A Nigma.
Wasn't that one of the, isn't that what the Polish state defeated the Germans by reverse engineering
and the Nigma machines?
Yeah, something like that.
And Plexi's phone died so she just left.
And who is this?
This is Bill Cosby.
Ah.
Bill Cosby.
Bill Cosby.
Where are you getting that name from?
London putting, sir.
Yes.
You see, you see no people say putting old people remember the show.
Why won't you kids just leave Christmas Eve?
And they had the token white kid on the show.
That was funny.
Yeah.
What was his name?
Bubba or something?
I forget his name now.
I think his name was Bubba.
He was like the token white kid.
He couldn't talk straight.
You white boy.
That was pretty funny.
Yes, you are.
Yeah.
You just broke up.
What?
This is frustrating.
I give up.
That would be, I see you having up for tonight.
Oh, fail.
Yeah, I heard you.
I give up.
Yeah.
She was talking on the phone next to me.
Anyway.
So, who is the still Cosby?
What's his real name?
Who is Bill Cosby?
My real name is Adam Wythop.
And I'm from Bavaria, Austria.
Yeah.
I don't buy it, but okay.
Whatever.
So, we're talking about Christmas.
Yeah.
Something like that.
Right on.
Christmas is freaking awesome.
Yeah.
So, you got the three wise men.
And you've got the virgin son born.
And so, the three wise men preceding the birth of the virgin son is actually the free star.
And I can mute him too.
It's cool.
Yeah.
Damn it.
I needed that.
It's actually the three stars in Orion's belt pointing to the sun rising in Virgo.
It's all astral theology.
There's actually a really interesting lecture on this called the Pharmacratic Inquisition.
And it details a lot of the astral theology because all main religions are based on the knowledge of earlier man.
And so, the stories that we have today are based on earlier stories from earlier times.
Where they watched the stars and the rising of the sun and the moon.
The reservation of the sun is literally like the sun goes away and then it comes back.
Oh, wow.
I always thought it was just the three wise guys seeking out this virgin milk that they wanted to bang, bang, bang.
So, the sun rises in Virgo and then the three stars are pointing to the location where the sun will actually rise in Virgo.
The three days in the tomb or the three days after the solstice where the sun spends before the new year begins.
And so, it's all ancient knowledge that has been converted to make people be able to understand it a little better in different ways.
It's pretty interesting stuff.
And like Christmas time, the packages that mysteriously appear under the Evergreen tree are actually the Ammonita Mascara mushroom, which are red and white, which is also the color of Santa Claus.
They're psychedelic mushrooms and it's also a favorite food of reindeer, which Nordic shamans heard.
So, the reindeer eat the psychedelic red and white mushrooms and they make them fly.
It's actually, well, all this is actually pretty well documented stuff.
It's just not relatively common knowledge.
But the pharmacratic in the Inquisition, it's a free lecture.
You can get off the site, pharmacratic-inquisition.com.
There's a low-quality Google video there that you can get and watch the whole thing.
The guys that did it, they actually wrote a book called Astral Theology, which is available on Amazon for like $17.
And I don't know.
I haven't read the book, but I've seen most of the lecture. It's pretty good stuff.
Okay, I don't know where that rank came from, but okay.
Well, it's Christmas time. That's my Christmas time rant.
All of this stuff is based on different traditions.
And most people don't really understand the ancient traditions of Christmas and religion in general.
Because I had already been doing research on ancient religions before I ran across the stuff that they were talking about in the lecture.
And I was like, well, yeah, this all makes sense, because I'd already learned that the traditions of Christianity and most other religions
dated back to the time of Zoroastor and Metheris, which is before the Egyptian times.
You sure are the most intelligent four-chantrol I have ever met.
No, I troll four-chant. I'm not a four-chantrol.
And then I just realized that trolling four-chant is like shitting in a toilet.
What he does is, you know, it's like, it's pissing in a sea of piss.
So I gave up on that. Oh, I did it for about three days. So I'm most recently a four-chantrol.
Yes, yes. And you found us through four-chants.
No, I just made that up.
Really? We didn't know that. Really? No idea.
Yeah. That's okay. That's okay. Merry Christmas, everybody.
Merry Christmas to you.
By the way, this is Foxfire.
I kind of got that by the voice, but it gives it away.
Yeah, it's kind of hard to cover that up, I know.
Yeah, from the old school hacking or what's your series called?
This old hack. This old hack. Yeah.
Okay. Yeah. All of my equipment is shot right now.
So I am out of the podcasting because I don't have a microphone or a computer to add it on.
You wouldn't have to. Both of my desktops are down.
I'm using a fucking like a thousand megahertz.
I'm a little bit quieter while the door's open and making sure.
Okay. That was interesting. I love conferences.
You never know what you're doing.
Actually, I did try to start a four-chant podcast last night.
Nobody was willing to join. Yeah.
I guess they're kind of anti-social people. Go figure.
Who would have gotten it?
Yeah. Who would have gotten it?
Again. Never would have gotten it.
You never would have gotten it.
I mean, it's just called the assholes internet.
I can't imagine why. Who knew?
I don't know.
I even went to their IRC channel and tried to get them to join.
No, no, no. We're too busy fapping to gore.
You know, I used to think you're the man now dog was the end of the internet.
I was wrong.
You were wrong.
What is the end of the internet?
Well, the chance in general.
Well, that's only when I'm familiar with.
Yeah, I try to stay away from the whole chat of the dot-chance thing.
Yeah. I realize this morning that I like to, you know, interact with people that are above my intellectual level.
Not bring me down to their intellectual level.
The sewage of four-chance.
Yeah, definitely.
Let's see.
My feet.
No, you're adorable.
I'm going to call on the conference close the door.
It's already parties over.
I'm on the phone.
Okay, it's not there.
But it will be out on the screen.
Yeah, this is back in the free factor days.
What's the Christmas Carol?
Well, it can have the Christmas Carol time.
He's missing an action.
I don't know where he is.
That's pretty lame.
I know. He ditched me.
I guess the threat of Christmas Carol was capping him a wire.
Let's see, I'll sing a Christmas Carol for everybody.
Oh, my soul and edge.
They feel afraid of the world.
A vector on edge.
Hey, may all salt don't penetrate.
They got it.
I don't believe my dad.
And was that in French?
That was French, yes.
Okay.
That was in French.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Maybe I have Google fail.
Internet fail.
My Internet has been okay lately.
It does normally have Internet fail.
We have new people on the chat thing.
But nobody's actually called in.
No, there goes one.
Guess 13's gone.
Guess 13, you have bail.
Weeks or whatever his name is,
W-E-E-X is on the chat,
but he's just keen to be called in.
So what is the chat hosted?
It's the talk show chat thing.
What is talk show like a free conference service or something?
Yeah, that's the bridge you're on.
They've got a web interface too,
so you can go CGI, IRC on the web interface.
Kind of like a what is that,
a U video, but inside the U-Shit.
There's a podcast called WinxCring
that does a show on here every Saturday night at midnight,
I believe, 11 o'clock.
Saturday night at midnight.
Be there.
They would actually make it Sunday.
Yeah.
Well, actually it's 11 o'clock,
central time.
So it's Saturday, but it's Sunday.
What's different than 12 o'clock Saturday?
12 o'clock Saturday.
Yeah, 12 o'clock for me,
because I'm on the east coast.
Right.
Well, the east coast is fucking rocks,
that's why.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, that was a while ago.
So when we dial out,
we do some prank calls,
call up some mall sanders and...
I don't know if you've been dialed out.
This is the first time I've been on this bridge, so.
Yeah, most bridges probably don't want you to dial it out,
because then you're going to call fucking prank calls
and get their bridge out.
Like they did a million and one times on three factor.
Oh, yeah.
We've done our Walmart calls too.
Some of the most fun we had though
was shit like three or four years ago,
when we started prank calling the televangelists.
That was a good time.
Oh man, that's that.
It's got to be fun.
That was a good time,
because shit, we called up one time
and it was like a,
this guy voltage X,
and he's from Australia,
and he got his sister on the phone.
His sister had some kind of like
a cult book by E Weight
from like the 30s,
and if you ever done Tarot,
most Tarot decks are AE Weight decks,
and he was an occultist back in the day,
and that's why we have the AE Weight Tarot decks.
And she had a book by him,
and she was reading like some kind of summoning
of some kind of demon.
And like we got on the phone with the televangelist,
and like he started off as like,
I've got a problem.
My faith has been really shaken,
and it was like this Southern Black lady
that was answering the call, I think,
and like, and then like his sister gets online,
and she starts reading this incantation from the book,
and it was the weirdest thing,
because like the lady had a fucking exorcism spell ready.
Like if she started like,
well, seriously,
the televangelist answer phone lady,
she had like a fucking exorcism spell ready,
talking about the blood of Jesus,
I spilled the blood of Jesus on you,
and power of Christ,
and she had, I mean it was like,
you know, she didn't have to look it up or anything,
it was like they've got a script just for this event,
you know, pre-prepared.
Yeah, it was fucking crazy, you know,
and there's a vision of recording of it,
you know, and I haven't been able to find it lately,
I've only seen voltage a couple of times since then,
I don't know what he's doing,
but he used to have it on his site,
but his site got taken down,
or he's rearranged,
or something,
so the recording's not there anymore,
but it's the power of Christ compels you,
got away, I think, you know,
because at the end of the thing,
she's like, the phone lady is like,
I poured the blood of Christ on you,
I poured the blood of Christ on you,
and the girl's like,
I'd like to drink that blood,
and then we,
and that's pretty much the end of the recording.
And then, another time we called up,
and there was two guys,
and one of them was like,
yeah, I'm an narcotics and anonymous counselor,
and this is my,
I don't know, the person I'm sponsoring has a problem,
he can only find guides when he's high.
And so the other guy comes on the line,
he's like, yeah,
I can only find Jesus when I'm high on heroin.
What should I do?
So I don't know,
that one didn't get recorded,
so I don't know exactly what all happened,
but it was,
it was pretty funny.
It was our list, you know.
So was that,
that was on the Bellsman Bridge, right?
Yeah, that was,
that was back in the Bellsman.
Is the Bellsman not doing anything you say, is it?
No, we,
I think not very,
we had some issues with this DID,
and I couldn't do it anymore.
I don't really know what happened to it,
but he had to buy a new bandana.
What?
He had to use the money to buy a new bandana
on a new trench coat.
Yeah.
That's something like that,
maybe a new trench coat.
I haven't talked to you in a while,
I don't, I don't know exactly what's up with that.
No.
I saw him in Spooker last year,
I didn't talk to him,
I don't know him personally.
Yeah, I've never met him personally,
I,
I've talked to him a couple times on RC,
but,
yeah, I've met him,
but I just don't know him.
Why?
Just like one of the things
is like somebody,
you know,
but they don't know you,
it's like hey, yeah, yeah,
you're like Jason Scott,
you know,
it's like I went out and said,
hey, you're Jason Scott,
yeah, I know you,
you know,
I'm plucking love the,
love the shit you do,
you don't know me,
but you know,
I just wanted to say,
I interrupted him talking to some girl too.
That was a fucked up part.
Wait, where was this?
This was at Spooker last year.
He was trying to get his Mac on on some girl,
and I was like,
oh yeah, Jason Scott,
I love,
you know,
looking forward to the new documentary,
he's, you know,
he's trying to put his pimple on him,
fucking,
I just totally interrupted him.
Yeah, you just,
you really want to tell a Jason Scott story,
but this can end up online,
so I don't think I should.
I don't think you should.
Okay, so I'm telling this story,
second hand,
from when I heard it.
Okay, so,
are you guys familiar with starting?
Yeah.
Okay, so,
I think it was not a con a couple years ago.
Shardie had,
gave some girl some money to go and troll Jason, right?
Like,
try to lead him on just so that she can reject him later or something,
you know,
something along those lines,
just the mess with Jason.
So,
I guess she did something like she turned around
and made eye contact with Shardie,
and Jason caught it,
so he walks up to Shardie
and gives him a big kiss,
right on the window.
And later,
when asked how it was,
Jason said,
it was musty,
sort of like old books.
If anybody knows all documents,
it would be him.
Oh, snap.
Jason was calling tonight too,
so I'll be,
be sure to,
really now.
Definitely.
You can ask him about that incident.
That would be,
just be like,
so how is Shardie?
You know,
how does,
how good of a kisser is Shardie?
Shardie,
sing my way.
Shardie looks good to me.
Oh, no.
Hold on.
Wait,
I want to,
um,
the conference over in Germany.
What's that?
The CCC?
Yeah.
I don't know.
I like to fucking go to that too, shit.
I know, right?
It's expensive.
Well, everything is expensive, shit.
Yeah, seriously.
I'll be lucky if I get a schmuck on
and take it this year.
Actually, I fucking skydog
better hope that he brings dolomite
along for backup,
because I might just show up anyway.
The CCC one is outside, isn't it?
The CCC seems like in a hangar,
or something, isn't it?
It's a camp?
That was the camp.
The conference is,
um, at a hotel.
Oh.
Well,
I'm all about the camp.
Oh, yeah.
But yeah, I fucking have to
the last round of sales
for the schmuck on tickets.
I'm pretty fucking pissed off.
Because like,
I was like waiting for him to go on sale
at 10 o'clock.
I was refreshing every fucking,
you know, like,
10 seconds from 10 o'clock.
Just hoping that they'd
put him on sale early.
They got totally fucking
de-daw after, like,
the first 15 minutes,
and they had to shut the sales down.
Oh, man.
And they hadn't put him back on sale yet.
So they've got, like,
you know,
all the tickets they didn't sell
because they're shit crashed
at the last round.
And so they're putting the rest
of them on sale.
Um,
I'm not going to say the date
because hopefully nobody
is going to fucking buy them
because I'd like to get some tickets.
But, um,
they're going to put the extra tickets on sale
at the next round, you know.
Because they've got, like,
three levels of tickets.
They've got the early bird tickets
for the people that buy them right
up front at the first, like,
ten minutes of sales.
And then they've got, like,
the regular tickets,
which are seven-yellers more.
And then they've got, like,
the wheel of a schmuck on tickets,
which are $300.
And it was fucked up
because when they went on sale,
they didn't even have
any early bird tickets available.
And then later on,
they had the early bird tickets available,
but by the time you tried to get
to them, the server crashed.
So, you know,
I called, I kind of called
shenanigans and got kind of pissed off.
I wanted to give them
the benefit of the doubt.
You know.
But, uh,
and I'm going to try again.
And if not,
fucking, I'll just go up there
and hang out at the hotel.
Shit, it's not that far away from me.
Because last year,
I didn't have to buy a ticket.
I got mine from Larry,
Larry Pesci,
because he got a paper submitted.
And so he had already bought a ticket.
And so he gave me his
spare ticket.
And I gave him some shiny rocks
and return.
And then, here before,
I didn't go to the conference.
I just went up and drank in the bar
for a night,
and then drove home.
So, I was looking to buy a ticket
this year,
which is kind of fucked up,
if I can't buy one.
I don't like the way they do that.
Like, they put the piers out,
early tickets.
Yeah.
That's kind of hope.
You know, you can buy a ticket at the con.
And I just don't,
never liked the pre-order tickets.
They can't get anything at the door.
Well, man,
I think you should get them at the door.
It's movecom,
but you got to pay the $300
for the,
we love it.
We love it.
We love it.
If I run up in,
if I run up in a G string
and say that I'm from out of country,
you think they're going to give me a ticket?
All right.
I don't know.
Oh, yeah.
I don't know.
I mean, I mean,
what is this?
This is like the fourth or fifth year for smoke on.
You know,
and so,
if it's getting this big
and they're running out of tickets,
maybe it's time to come up with a new venue.
Yeah.
You know,
I like the Wardman Park Marriott.
You know,
it's a great fucking hotel.
You know,
but if they're running out of space,
maybe they need to,
you know,
find a new,
find a new venue.
Yeah.
So, who's doing the call?
Is it Bill Cosby?
I love Bill Cosby.
Oh, that guy.
I love that guy.
He's another person on the call.
So, who is it?
It's also a great comedian.
Oh, I kill a smurf butt duck in.
I kill a smurf butt duck in.
Oh, I kill a smurf butt duck in.
Ah, I am.
You were able to get the kids to sleep?
No, no.
I'm back on the highway.
I just,
I popped in to see him drop off some presents.
Now, I got to go to the hotel.
Awesome.
Oh.
Yeah, I'd put the kids to bed.
And then the wife called,
and she told me,
did you remember to put the milk and cookies out?
I was like, no.
Oh, no.
No, I didn't put the milk and cookies out.
She was like, well, get the kids back up,
and put the milk and cookies out.
So, I had to get the kids back up,
put the milk and cookies out,
and then she called back again,
and she's like, get them up again
and let them run around the house
so they'll get plenty of rest.
Yeah, either of that,
or you'll be waking up at like five o'clock
in the morning.
Daddy, daddy,
look at the presents.
Well, they're not that old.
They normally,
they normally get up about seven or eight anyway.
Regardless of what time I put him to sleep.
And so, it isn't really matter,
but hopefully if they stayed up later tonight,
then they'll go to sleep earlier tomorrow night.
Oh.
That would be just a bonus.
Which would be a bonus.
Definitely.
All right.
Well, what I'm thinking is,
I told them I'm heading back to the hotel,
but what do I think I'm going to end up doing a double in thought
because I'm still going to get all the stocking stuff
put in and under the tree.
So,
and the axe said that I could come in to do that.
So.
Yeah, we got,
but we got most of the presents wrapped
under this tree,
and then we've got like a little stock pile of stuff
that's tucked in the closet,
that's not wrapped,
that we're going to stick out tonight.
And she's at work.
She's coming home early from work tonight
so we can do that.
And it's going to be a big fun.
You think five years old is too young for a triply?
No.
No.
Because I mean,
should you put tux paint on there
and fucking the whole G can pre-sweet?
I've already got it all pre-loaded for them,
so it's there waiting for them.
Oh, yeah.
I think that would be fine for them.
Yeah.
And pretty much chuck it across the room,
and...
Yeah, because of...
I mean, you have all state ones.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, my kids are four and three.
The girl just turned three a couple days ago.
And they fucking,
they can use the mouse and fucking G can pre
and fucking the boy he can type in URLs
and fucking all sorts of shit.
So, yeah.
Yeah, fine.
Yeah, don't worry.
He'll be shredding down all your firewalls in no time.
Yeah, yeah.
I know.
Yeah, I know.
This can be fun.
Which one did you get?
First, the 701.
Oh, I just...
I just grabbed the 701 and the 4G, so...
Yeah.
Yeah, that'd be more than enough for them.
And Frog and Bubble is my favorite game.
Oh, you know what?
It looks great on that screen.
Even though I...
Even though I suck at it so bad.
I'm in a town of 1,500 people.
You think I could find whipped cream anywhere?
I don't know.
That's kind of a small town.
Do we have two stoplights at one?
Actually, they just got the first one.
Oh, really?
That's good.
Is it a full stoplight or is it just a flashing yellow one?
No, no.
It's an actual full stoplight.
Oh, really?
Wow.
Yeah, it's...
There is a reason I don't live in this town.
Let's just say that.
Holy crap.
There's nothing open.
No, it's Christmas Eve.
They probably closed it five o'clock.
Well, it's...
Well, I don't know what time zone you're in, but...
Yeah, there's probably not much open.
Maybe it's time for our Walmart?
Oh, really?
I don't have a Walmart, but it's like 55 minutes away.
Yeah.
Walmart can't stop it.
Yeah, I'm surprised it's...
I'll be surprised if the Walmart's open shit.
Maybe like a 7-11?
No, 7-11s.
No.
Even the 24-hour gas station is closed.
You could find a bowl and maybe make your own whipped cream.
No, I...
Do you know what?
I'm not seeing anyone that.
Thanks.
Thanks for the offer anyway.
No.
I would just be alone.
You didn't say he'll meet me.
Yeah, you would be funny, because I just would eat it, but...
I'd be feeding it to my ex-in-laws.
You think that would be good enough to do?
Yeah, they're your ex-in-laws, you know?
They're ex-in-laws, you know?
Oh, hell yeah.
Do it.
You have no obligation to keep them happy anymore?
Yes, I do.
It's called my kids.
Oh.
Yeah, they could make his life so little uncomfortable.
Oh, yeah.
Hey, you mean...
Yeah, that's the thing.
I haven't been able to chat with you guys for nine months, because it's been uncomfortable.
It's just starting to get comfortable again, so.
Yeah.
Like the guy who was complaining about his in-laws coming over every time they come over
and they caught all one of his kids.
Oh.
To where the point that his kids...
His kids getting hurt and thanks coughing and shit to get attention from the in-law.
Oh, no.
My suggestion was...
My suggestion was feed her ex-lags.
Oh, oh, oh.
Give her the shit.
And then tell her that she's got a stomach virus and she has to stay away from the kids.
That's brilliant.
I love it.
You're not condoning that.
You're not condoning that.
We're not condoning it.
I'm just saying it's brilliant.
That would be illegal in Canada, would it?
It works in a pinch.
Everything's illegal in Canada, I think.
Oh, now, now, now.
Aww.
I'm sorry.
Give me a break.
I didn't mean to insult the Maple Leaf.
I apologize.
Hey, I'm sorry.
You're America's hat.
What?
You're America's hat.
Yes.
Here we go.
Give me a break.
I couldn't figure out the difference between a single quote and a thought tick the other day,
so I feel like an idiot.
I'm sorry.
I could not figure out the difference between a single quote and a thought tick the other day,
so I feel like an idiot.
Okay.
How are you going to confuse?
You know what?
No sleep and try to do it.
Okay.
I can't say it looks similar.
Yeah, no sleep and try to do it.
That's like, you know, I try to get down to root and I'm using commas instead of fucking periods.
ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha
ha ha ha ha ha ha
We're down in Florida no but then again the specific Northwest is getting hit by the worst fucking snowstorm in 100 years you know
What is the news yesterday on the Chicago airport it was like they had like 6 or 7 inches of snow on the ground Oh No I missed that but I did
I did see the story about how there was like a lot of people trapped on an Amtrak train for like fucking 24 hours
hours with no bathrooms and I'm like fucking first of all you tell me I can't
get off the train I'm kicking the window out and you want to go take a piss
okay same thing would be entrapped on a plane like those stories with the
people that were stuck on the plane for eight hours fuck that I'll pull the
emergency hatch I'm going out the plane you're not keeping me locked in unless
you've got fucking a gun in a badge and I've committed a felony and even then
hopefully I have a spoon and some fucking was the myth myth busters did with
with the salsa in the battery
used it to eat to the bars grease myself up with my own
lard and flip through the walls now that that that was a pleasant thought but
thank you for that thank you for playing please play again and then that
reminds me and speaking of um slipping through the things greased up in your
own law apparently Jason Scott he said he lost a bunch of weight in the
making of his his most current documentary the the get-lamp which which he
did a presentation he did a presentation on that it's smoke on which was
pretty cool because he said he had to lose a bunch of weight to go spill
onking to fit into the cave because apparently the the game that get
lamp is based on what is it the the grue game adventure it it was based on a
real cave system and so he had to go track down all these old splunkers to
actually go get them to lead him to the cave system and like all the stuff from
the game is actually like a real cave system there's no vending machines or
grooves down there but the the cave system is actually accurately mapped out
in the game and apparently there was some girl those able to like play the
game just by the knowledge of the of the cave system or something like that
so it's pretty interesting I'm looking forward to so I didn't see the bbs
documentary either but you know it was pretty interesting stuff pretty well made
you know props to Jason I guess he directed the mc frontalot video
pitch black that you are likely to be eaten by a grue oh wow if you watch the
video at the end of it it says directed by Jason Scott and I think there's
like some clips from the movie in there too he did one hell of a job on the
bbs documentary I still haven't seen it yet yeah either it was really good
it's I've been threatening to buy everyone beer when they come down to the
states to deathcon or not a con or something and I was telling low tech last
last week that maybe I might be able to get to not a con we'll see you
should it's a lot of fun yeah I haven't been to a smaller car and all I've
been to the deathcon in hope I didn't see we always wanted to go to that's worth it
going like a smaller one yes not a car you know the bigger ones like
deathcon and black has all have their good points but if you want to actually
sit down and talk with the people I highly recommend the smaller ones like
not a con absolutely why I talk to a bunch of people with a smooth
con I mean it's just you know I mean it's a it's a different atmosphere you
know yeah and then again smooth times like 80% federal agents too so there's
a different type of people that you'll meet right because like they try to
recruit me when I was it but I ended up like in a hotel room with some guy
driving the city and he was like you know you like like interviewing me for
government like fucking three o'clock in the morning I was like yeah well you
know I don't have any networking skills and he's like that's okay get your
Cisco cert and we'll give you a job next time you come back no the benefits
aren't so bad no the benefits are I mean it's the way the world works it's not
about what you know it's who you know and how much money you have so yeah you
know you make the connections in the fucking world you know you do your social
networking and then you pretty much get yourself a job if you've got any kind
of social skills you know if you fucking spend your time on a fortune and then
you might not have someone to deal with it he's not in the floor trad now hey
me yeah cuz then we're going to get fucking attacked
it's gonna be a fucking shit but a fucking four-channel okay I see a new
collar in so is there someone else on the one yeah hey buddy what's going on
hey here's what's up hey groups are late to the party hey groups how the hell
are you I am thankful Christmas is almost over are you still a coonass am I still
what are you still a coonass I am never been a coonass my I thought you were
living in lousiana I live in the state of Louisiana that makes you a coonass
I don't know actually technically coonass is designated to residents of
southern lousiana but I extended to every resident of the state well that's
okay I call everybody north of Louisiana yanky oh that's okay this is Adam by
the way what's going on buddy he's doing all right I am doing all right and
happy christmas oh happy christmas to everybody else guys don't get too much I
got a drop all right okay I'm a Christmas present for everybody if you don't
mind engaging in some discourse with me as I formulate what this Christmas
present is okay okay I use an iPod some really crazy but a lot of people that
enjoy syndicated contents from via the interwebs also use RFS feeds I just
iPod people and these RFS feeds show like the latest 10 or the latest 20 shows
of whatever right and so let's say I wanted to download episode four of
Hacker Public Radio and put it on my iPod no problem but it won't go in the
little podcast directory so I'm gonna have to like I can go to podcast the HPR
I won't show up there I'll have to go somewhere else to find it it's just a new
oh crap I know what you're talking about I've oh man how do you do that give me
a second I'm trying to remember I had a better idea because iTunes like it's
hard to see podcast description isn't shit it's a limited little screen and then
the iPod of course as well limited little screen so I built a little tool that
lifts it's paying the ass to set up initially but it lifts all the episodes of a
certain show so we'll say here's episode 300 all the way down to one of
twat tech radio and I go check spot tech box beside it as who the host was when
it was the title in the description and you click the check box for all the
ones you want and then you click at the bottom to generate an RFS feed and
it generates RFS feed of just the stuff that you want and you can rename it
before you add it to iTunes like it has a little form field for this so that I
can have my HPR and then I can have my actual shows in HPR I want to listen to
then I call full HPR so I kind of build your own little RFS feed and build
the RFS feed that's valid for like I haven't set a time on it yet but I was
taking like a day so that you could just go and select shows you wanted to
grab real quick have your time catching clients whatever you could just grab
the ones you wanted and then you could go about your business that's kind of
cool and I'm gonna use it heavily and I was gonna share it with everyone
else for Christmas or holidays or quans or quans are fuck yeah whatever people
celebrate Hanukkah best of us awesome best of us yeah that's a very important
one best of us yes and it's gonna be up at the Hacker Media website awesome just as
soon as I remember that password yeah I just I just use secret or password and that
way I can't forget or God yeah or lover you know
that's where it's all I need to ask yeah
yeah
do you still have any of those on this thing on this can stickers I do have some on
these can stickers
sweet you know I still have the blue triangle on my laptop
those are the most well built terrible stickers ever yeah yeah you know we
always use the better market yeah
not to be I'm a I'm very careful with what I put my omni scan stickers on
because I have a very limited number of them yes I think I'm all out if you
need some I can like take a picture and show it to you oh no I have a vector
image of the omni scan logo I could just have them reprinted I think there's
some all on some street signs in Vegas or something oh I'm sure of it actually
know because those were the shitty ones they probably got pulled down your
original ones the that started the whole randomness of it there's still like
the very first one I think that got put on felpin is still like in the in the
NYC subway system awesome yeah it's a where's it's like between the L and
one connection in a little tunnel there but yeah that makes no sense to me
but okay yeah well the L train goes from Manhattan to Brooklyn and the
one train goes from Bronx down through Manhattan to the South Fairy and pretty
much it's just a little tunnel that you walk through to go from the one line
to the other awesome you've never been on the New York subway and I was in New
York this summer so never got to it yeah I've only been in New York one time
myself and they wouldn't let me out the car
well we we we we stayed like a week in in Western Massachusetts and it was
this guy I was working for and his son and his daughter and then coming back
from the vacation it was like you know like holidays like Christmas or
and coming back me and the the girl we'd split like a quarter of a gallon of
whiskey on the way between Massachusetts and New York we really wanted to stop
and get more whiskey in New York and her brother wouldn't let us so that was my
only time in New York City Manhattan it wouldn't let me out the car yeah I
would much have the car either but that's yeah it's probably probably for the
best yeah so any interesting tech boys for Christmas troops no I've been
mainly taking things apart and playing with the Arduino but apparently the
Arduino made everyone else's list of things tech toys you should buy for people
yeah make mine already right I fail I see the hardware hacking we know I okay
I only pick a development environment and a couple of big chips and I own a
propeller development environment and a couple of propeller chips and then I have a
bunch of our tweenos and the other ship like I'm reading it and it's like I
don't understand the first chapter of the book I just don't get it and then I
look at the Arduino and it's so easy I said that going for y'all I'm not the
middle of nowhere no it doesn't sound too bad a little bit but I think that's
because 3.30 came in okay if you want to look it up on the map I'm an
acid Louisiana nice in the middle I know where okay I don't know what that was
but all right pretty online hello hello hey what happened I don't know the
hello roll call just such a bad episode I swear no this is fantastic it's the
way it should be you know it's organic yes the whole you know Bill Cosby
discussion good it's Bill Cosby it's freaking awesome
and what I want you to go to sleep
so you were saying it's called the house of Cosby's and some dude really liked
Bill Cosby so he made a cartoon about him building a cloning machine and just
making all these different Bill Cosby's and a family of Bill Cosby's lawyers
did not appreciate such use of his likeness I'm sure they didn't Google for
that it's awesome okay it's 3.30 back yes I'm currently here okay just
checking how you do gentlemen and possibly ladies but I'm assuming not no there's
a lady no there's soon to be ladies actually more than one I've been plural wow
that's that's weird for the internet no no telephone not the internet hmm it's
getting me a telephone call not an internet so exactly there's more there can be
ladies on the line girls I use phones so that's you're again a new snack machine
B and that was going to be the other girl
yes maybe I have to tell you this whole interface here this first time I've done this
off to you interface and I just figured out how to mute people nice let's
handy especially when you've got like a call that might get this number posted
before Chan you might get a bunch of assholes on here like you you know like me
exactly yeah fun me with you by the way you are my my test on the test mute that's
okay I thought it would be fun to pretend to be one of those death
use anyway yeah so any cool tech toys 330
or crystals uh no actually
they things have been tied around my house uh my my last awesome tech thing was right before
OLS I got a triple E900 nice I have one under the tree but you know I can't
are you gonna put that track on it me lead
what would that you put that track on your triple E
the triple E I have a two E E on it the triple E that they all have a
ethero's Wi-Fi sets don't they um I think so actually I was going to check that
yeah I'm pretty sure yeah I have 100% sure they do that that's why that's why they're
uh chose in platform by the the backtrack community
plus it's so creamy you can war walk yeah well I actually they they've um they've
ported limits to the iPod touch now but I don't know if the I don't know what
the Wi-Fi chipset is in the iPod touch so I don't know if you can crack
web or do injection or anything with the chipset but you know there's a lot
of other fun stuff you could do but there's already been people running like uh
I don't know if they're I think they're running kismet on it and stuff already so
you know there's a lot of fun stuff you can do there if the chipset does injection
that would be fucking awesome just like use your iPod to crack somebody's
web it just sounds cool
that on my uh in 800
and that that's quite a bit of fun yeah they were actually I was reading today
where they were comparing the N800 to the iPod touch because they're they're
pretty much similar um the like the the touch has like a 400 megahertz
processor and the 800 has like a 350 and the RAM is the same the only
difference is the you know like like the storage capacity but then the N800
you can use sand discs for storage yes you know but uh and the
I think the screen is actually bigger on the 800 oh it's quite a bit bigger and the
resolution is higher too
but that's that's is that a phone or is that just like a web device it's just a web device there
and there's it would be awesome if I had uh a phone man but it's just
it's just an internet tablet nice yeah I don't even
hardly use my iPod for music you know a lot of time I just use it for a pda
for checking memes on the interwebs and that kind of stuff
makes it very handy yes yes it does
um so I just went into that air again that's okay that air we need to get some some cricket sound
effects if it was some or time I could just walk outside and we could naturally have organic
cricket sound effects there yeah or your uh saw or you know or the saw or the power drill or
you know any number of things yeah I've got I've got I've got plans to start a new a new series
hopefully this spring some kind of um uh auto mechanics type uh type show I don't know though
because I got this car that I was going to work on and do a show on it but different sitting
out there for so long now I'll have to rebuild like the whole thing do I actually do it so
they might be feasible doing for a series like um uh round table type series where we have a
different topic every month and it would be more like a conference where we would have you know
like four or five people on the conference line and and do like this but a little more structured
that wouldn't be a complete free for all it would be a little more structured and it would be an
easy show for everybody well that that sounds like chrome fork radio yeah something like that
but it would be HPR yeah exactly shameless plug is shameless I know yeah old meme is old old
meme is old that's right but I guys I guys pimped you out the last time on uh whatever
for me in groups didn't use your conference line yeah was you guys yeah it was yeah I share the
love yeah actually we've got we've got a guy now who works for a telco out and he's out in
Minnesota or something somewhere and he's actually setting up a dedicated well it's not dedicated
just for us but you know where we've actually know the guy that runs the service as opposed to like
using a web service and we can get custom a custom interface they what is
shit they're using some really cool shit too um it's not uh it's not asterix either and I can't
I can't think of the name of it now but it's um it's kind of like the the phone equivalent of an
IRCD where you can add different modules to it and do different kind of things one of the things
you can do is you can like add an interface to IRC to where you can like have the color
information pop up in a channel on an IRC server for example instead of having a web interface
right it'll connect to um an IRC and IRC but I fucking I got a fucking can't think of the name of it
now now I've got it written down on one of my tablets but I don't know where the fuck it's at now
so anyway it's cool and that's all there is to it but it's not asterix
and I just saw more gallon popped in so is he is he there oh fan has to we're gonna have a big
freaking party party time party time
I hope he brought us some oven baked sandwiches and some uh did you bring any Christmas presents
troops brought his uh oh what he bring I got some sort of uh we know powered uh
phallic vibrating hey no mphosher yeah I finally found somebody to be the model for it
so I made a cast and we were able to uh actually produce it
excellent yeah not to make presents for it sorry thank you Jason Scott
that's wrong yeah I got some cool stuff here I got a uh a cordless dremel
but power tools when you're damn powerful I know power tools are freaking awesome as you
cordless dremel that's like that's fucking awesome okay I got an electric stapler
nice pool box you know fucking awesome not any uh tech toys for for you for Christmas I asked
everybody no I know I'm getting nothing for Christmas that a bunch of switches and a pile of
coal but at least I can build a fire so it's it's even a good thing if you get sticks and
coal for Christmas at least you can build a fire yeah there's a lot of people that wish that
you get coal for Christmas like fuck up coal I wish I had some coal I could start a fire
I got a a non tech thing but kind of still cool uh I got a set of bits that I go on my drill so
I can build rustic furniture if they're kind of like big pencil sharpeners they go on the drill
at high speeds I was very excited about that there they're big pencil sharpeners that go on the drill
so like you use the drill to sharpen the sticks to build the furniture yes that's pretty cool
so you can like make pegs into like holes so you drill a hole and then make a peg and it slips
into it something like that yeah and they're like not little bitty ones like what I'm
inch and three eight and another one's an inch and that was a little smaller that's pretty cool
so I can build like large stuff nice how's that open source uh house project or house
plans project incoming troops well um apparently if you want to build a house you have to be able
to afford and some method to build a house yes I understand that you know if you build a house you
have to be able to afford it the step I'm on as soon as I get off that step I'll tell everybody
okay I have an announcement to make me and my wife are going to have another baby awesome
awesome freaking awesome do you have a child or it's gonna it's the it's the number three it should
be doing August sometime and apparently the um the process of crew making babby fought through the
birth control and made babby anyway awesome and so it is it's that much more awesome oh that's
congratulations yeah I'm excited yeah in 18 years I'm gonna be completely gray and probably have
like three strokes and a quadruple bypass but that you know especially if we have another girl
but you've got one girl all right yeah one girl already and she's contributing to my ill health
I'm sure and if I have another one then I'm definitely gonna need to invest in a life insurance plan
or just like a rubber band if I'm sorry wrap around your test goals no I yeah there's been
suggestions of the the medical procedures to prevent further um incidences you mean blessing
yes for their blessings that's right but they know they say they're cheaper by the dozen so
yeah we have we have two blessings ourselves and the little talk has learned a new word she is trying
to say fork with with the use of oh mom he's your way
right
that's fine she's asleep stop I'll hit her demonstrate but it's pretty much she just says
fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck
fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck FUCK fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck Fuck hell fuck fuck fuck Fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck.... fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck Fuck fuck fuck fuckcl
more Melanie you back. Yes sir, it's there I'm back. Okay, it's just wondering as
long as you drop off. Hey, who's all on here? What's the need to sound off since I'm
all late? I don't know who else on here. You're late. Well, yeah, what's new? Well, that's
true. This would be an Igma you've heard me before. This is Adam. What's happening?
Hey, this is Drupes. This is Slick the Ear. Wow. But yeah, it's like it's a good crew going
on here tonight. This is one thing you showed up. It's just one step up from your new
show last year, I think, without the gunshots. Yeah, now I may have to see if I can get the
laptop again or webcam or something like that again. That was too much fun. Yeah, that
was a pretty good time. Although, I think I might have contributed myself to doing a
Reddit podcast for the New Year's. I'm trying to put together a podcast for those guys.
Maybe I can get the people that run Reddit to give me some money eventually.
Lucky. They're probably not going to sponsor it though. We're going to call it Reddit Nation
and we're going to talk about top stories on the internet. There's not a million shows that do
that already. And I'm going to call myself Charles Cressanthanumum. Wow, that's so wrong.
Actually, I thought about getting stank dollars on there for the first show to bitch about
fucking Kevin Rose. But then again, he was on the first episode of HPR. So that'd be like too many
number one episodes for him. We need to lay off there. Yeah, he ditched me for the first episode
of season two, HPR. Oh, he's too busy hunting sharks with his wildfire. Yeah. That's what he's doing.
Sure.
Hey, everybody. I'm telling you to stick and shoot a shark within. Then use your fucking
work to track it.
If anybody wants to be on the first episode of season two, let me know. I'm shooting for a call
here. Is it season two already? I'm getting old. Oh, season two will start January first.
Will them vote for 62, I think, to 61 or 60 somewhere around there? Wow.
Yeah. Well, I've been really recording a lot of episodes of the show.
Yeah, I know. Then it hasn't been you, droops.
I know. It really has. I appreciate everybody for doing it. I try to listen to every one of them.
The day they come out, but I'm usually a couple days behind.
Yeah, there's just way too many. I haven't even listened to them all, and I'm usually pretty good
about it. I probably have missed about 50 of them. Well, it's pretty obvious you don't listen to them,
otherwise you wouldn't have published my episodes. I do listen to them.
If you weren't going to say anything about that.
Good.
Yours weren't the worst. Let's put it that way.
Well, we've said it from all along, that Ignita doesn't know what's good or bad,
so he kind of didn't put it all on.
Oh, me.
Well, none of us do. We all have different desires and interests.
Yeah.
Well, I know there's something that the new, the music thing, the kind of like the NPR.
All songs considered.
All songs considered. Yeah, I need to get up with Smebli again and get him to do some stuff and
post that on there, because apparently Smebli was pretty popular.
I actually changed it from, I was originally going to do a series called Tech Music, and then
I went with the NPRS All Songs considered.
Well, it started as Tech Music, didn't it? And then recently,
it's become all songs considered.
I'm going to learn how to dial out.
You know, I think that's a conference sale right there.
It's going to give us an error message.
Sorry.
Or not. Did we lose anybody?
No, I'm here.
No, thanks though.
Oh.
Interesting.
Weird.
Weird?
Weird?
Yes, we are.
Weird?
Strange?
Uncanny?
Right.
Uncanny.
Anyway, yeah, I originally was Tech Music, and then I went, I went with all songs considered,
because it just sounds cooler.
Yeah, we should really rip off NPR, we should really rip off NPR.
Exactly.
Yeah, because then you and NPRS do it all.
Like, I really think we should do a clone of, wait, wait, don't tell me.
Wait, wait, don't tell me, everybody's funny.
I really think that we need to have our own little internet home companion, and after every
episode, Adam could just give a long, rambling story.
Yeah, I could probably do that.
I've got seven long rambling stories.
We need to find some like, like, Carl Castle that will be willing to put their voice on your,
your answering machine.
We need to find some of the really obnoxious voice though, and that'd be even funnier.
Like, you always need a glass of water.
Oh, yeah, you mean, um, uh, fucking Gilbert Godfried.
I used to not really like Gilbert Godfried, and you guys ever listened to social crime radio?
No, yeah, social, it's a comedy stream with adult comedy.
And I'd never heard the aristocrats joke told by Gilbert Godfried.
You guys know what the aristocrats joke is?
Yeah, I've told the joke.
I made a kid throw up in his mouth.
The aristocrats joke is like the most epic joke ever told.
And like, I heard Gilbert Godfried tell it, and it was totally fucking insane.
It was like watching the internet told by a guy with a really crazy voice.
And the aristocrat joke is like, is the, is the comedian world version of Goatsy.
We'll make mixed in with tub girl and two girls in one cup.
Only it's all one's family, and they're all related.
Pretty much, you got one family, they walk into a talent agent's office,
and they did Goatsy tub girl and two girls in one cup.
And at the end of the thing, after they cut each other's arms and limbs off,
and use them for different palaces and different orifices and the dogs and the rats and their vaginas,
and at the end of the act, they say, the guy says, well, what's the name of your act?
And they say the aristocrats.
And that's the whole joke, there.
And you know, I never really liked his stuff because his whole routine was just a bunch of like old jokes.
It was just like a bunch of one liners.
Like a guy walks into a traveling salesman goes and gets a room with a farmer.
And the farmer says, I don't have any room in my house, but I can put you out in the barn.
So the next morning, the traveling salesman gets up and he tells the farmer,
I had the most interesting night.
I talk to all the animals.
And the chickens told me that you come at exactly six o'clock in the morning and get their eggs.
And the cow told me that you come at exactly six thirty in the morning to milk the cow.
And the goat told me, and the farmer says, that goat's a fucking liar.
Yeah, but it's just like, you know, like one line, like kind of like a guy walks into a bar joke.
You know, it's like his whole routine and into the very end of it.
And then he gets to like, he does like a 15 minute, 20 minute aristocrats routine.
Where he just keeps going on and on and on.
And it's just fucking hilarious.
Yeah, it took me 45 minutes to tell it.
Yeah, yeah, the longer and more intricate it is, the better.
The better it is because everybody's like, nobody knows what the fuck's going on.
And then at the very end, it doesn't even matter that it's like, oh, the act to see aristocrats.
Because you got them to sit there and listen to you talk about all this crazy shit for fucking 45 minutes and laugh their asses off.
And that's why it's funny.
Well, it's just that's a whole lot better for the person telling it.
Yeah, it has the listen.
Yeah, because it's a lot of grimacing, there's a lot of grimacing and fidgeting going on.
Like, oh, God, that's fucking terrible.
There's rats in a vagina eating a cock.
And so the name of this show is the aristocrats.
Gris too special.
Okay, moving on.
Okay.
Hey, I'm going to have to jump off of here, guys.
All right.
Yeah, he's going to eat it much.
Well, he threw up and he threw up in his mouth a little bit there.
Someone's yelling, uh, please take over.
Oh, yeah, yeah, this bike hasn't been hasn't went down hill enough.
Hey, crazy guy.
Why don't you take hope, crazy guy, take over for a little bit.
All right, well, well, I get to drive.
I never get to drive.
All right, well, uh, what do you mean you never get to drive?
You drive for the living.
You get paid to drive.
I've got one more joke.
Oh, fuck, it's raining here.
At least I'm not on a void line or my internet will be crashing right now.
It's going down pretty good because the fucking satellite hates the rain.
Well, that's because satellite sucks.
Yeah, well, it sucks unless you've got dial up as you're alternative.
That's true.
So a woman walks into a bar and, uh, and she tells the bartender, I bet any man in this bar,
I can piss higher on the wall than them.
Oh, so she hikes him for scart, six of the leg, pisses on the wall.
First man comes up so like, I can beat that, he goes whip it out, pissing the wall,
and she says, I didn't say he could use your hands.
I'd actually thought about telling people to do that to make money.
Oh, yeah.
Cause they're probably worth.
And now we turn it over to the crazy guy.
We're crazy yet.
What you want?
Yeah, are you saying I'm like the Gary B.C. of IRC?
I'll take that. That's fine.
I don't know.
Well, you'll be able to do a hot beer and then they're on this, on this episode.
So anyway.
So it's Christmas.
Everybody got new high-tech toys.
Not yet.
Not yet.
No, no, I got, uh, I got me a high-tech toy.
Well, kind of, uh, I don't know.
I opted for an interesting gift this year.
You know, normally, like, you know, it's definitely, I mean, what this is high-tech, too.
But, uh, yeah, I opted for a car receiver that's got the little, uh, five inch screen on it.
Like on the front of the stereo.
And, uh, it's got video input.
It's got video output.
It plays DVDs, uh, and paid pours, and MP3s.
And, uh, sweet little stereo system.
And it was like 200 bucks.
Nice.
And so, yeah, like, I'm kind of in the process right now of trying to install it.
So if I sound scattered, that's what's going on.
Oh, you're trying to install a, uh, a head unit in your car.
Yeah, and talk on phone.
And talk on phone.
Did you get it from Crutchfield?
Do what?
Did you get it from Crutchfield?
Actually, I got it from Amazon.
No, did they, did they sent you like the, uh, wiring harness and everything for it?
Or you're gonna have to do, they sent you the wiring harness.
That's cool.
Yeah, we got everything I need, so.
Cause that's one of the, what led model is it?
Uh, who's the manufacturer?
It's a pile.
A pile?
Okay, pile good.
So I'm hoping it's not a pile of shit.
Uh, like, I don't know.
I'm not much on car stereos or anything like that.
Yeah.
But it was kind of cheap and for the price.
And it was like, all right, well, I'll take a gamble on it.
And it looks kind of cool.
Cause, uh, I think, I think piles kind of like a mid range.
It's not, it's not like the, uh, the low budget, uh,
car stereo brand piles.
I think it, I think it's a decent brand.
I don't, I used to be into it when I was young, a younger guy,
you know, the whole, the whole car stereo scene and everything.
But, uh, I, I know pile was a pretty common name.
So I don't think it's like, uh, like a fucking off brand or anything.
I know, I, I had a JVC unit and like a JVC fucking dischanger.
And like, that was a pile of fucking shit.
Like the dischanger died after like the first fucking three weeks.
And so like, I had to send it off to him to get it fixed.
And I had all my discs in it.
And so I had to wait for all my music to come back when they finally fixed it.
And then once it came back, it broke like the next fucking three days after they send it back.
And I just fucking ripped it apart and got my CDs out of it and just ate it like a hundred bucks.
And I was like, fuck this.
And then I tried riding around with my boombox and the back seat and it ended up scratching my discs.
Yeah, yeah, no, I don't, I'm a, yeah, real familiar with that method.
Man, I had this down, I had a little walkman with the, uh, like those speakers.
The, uh, headphone speakers had them strategically placed around the car.
Like, yeah, yeah, it was awesome.
Like, it was so awesome as a matter of fact, they got pulled over once for, uh, headlight being out.
And the cop just laughed.
He just laughed and laughed and laughed.
And then when he saw, he said, he fixed your headlight.
That's why I pulled you over and then walked back to his car, laughing.
And wow, I guess that's good.
Well, uh, well, you know, I'm sure he sees you every night driving around.
They just decided to pull you over this one.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah, no, yeah.
Like I said, uh, for good or bad, whatever, uh, I didn't know, uh,
a lot of the cops we live in the small town.
And, uh, I used to work at a gas station, third chip.
So I know a whole lot of the second and third shift guys from when they come in,
board out of their mind, because there's nothing to do with the small town.
Yeah.
They hang out all night and just talk.
So that's kind of one, uh, good benefit.
I guess of living in the small town, between like getting to know them all,
at least know them all in a good way.
And then between these delivery, I had very little trouble with the police.
Yeah, that's, that's very nice.
Yeah, it does work like that too, because, um, you know,
like if it's the cops that you drive around all the time and you're delivering
pizzas and you've got a tail light out, you know,
they know you're delivering pizzas.
Eventually, they're going to stop you for it.
Give you a warning or something, you know, and expect you to fix it.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
So this time of year, I guess they're trying to make their end of the year quarter
or something, I don't know.
Yeah, no, yeah.
I really try not to talk around at all, like anywhere.
Once it gets like the last week of the month,
yeah, it's just pretty much good behavior times, because they're looking for reasons at that point.
Yeah, you know, I mean, like the whole system is set up just to generate revenue
for like the towns and the counties and stuff.
I mean, like the average cop makes like, you know, like $20,000 a year,
but he generates like $50,000 a year in revenue.
Well, writing tickets.
Where wasn't it?
It was somewhere in Houston or it was somewhere in Texas.
I want to say it was Houston.
It was one of the larger cities.
But I remember reading a new story a couple months back where they had set up the traffic cameras
to stop people from running through yellow lights and red lights.
And then they were a year later or so, whatever, when the story came out,
they were taken them down because they worked too well.
And they cut it to the revenue because nobody was running lights
because they knew, hey, there's cameras here.
So like they weren't making any money off tickets.
They just hit down.
I think well.
That's an interesting angle on that story, because I'd heard that some places were taken
down because it's not legal, because in a lot of places you actually have to have a cop sign
to take it.
It's like an outdated or something.
And so like if there's not actually somebody there signing the ticket,
like, you know, a witness, then it's not legal, so they can't do it.
And in some places like Austin, like Austin, they decided they weren't going to take him down,
even though it wasn't legal.
I know I met one guy.
I don't know if it was a schmuckon or a freaknick,
where he was like, he had to contest a traffic light ticket, because like the camera had taken
a picture of the car next to him running the light.
But he got to take it because he was closer to the camera.
And so he had to go to court and contest it.
You know, it makes it because he got the ticket for it.
Which was kind of fucked up.
Invasive privacy.
I want my fucking fourth amendment.
I don't give a fuck.
Well, Austin kind of back to that.
That was part of the reasons why I opted for this particular head unit.
One of the things that I was thinking that would be cool to do is here in my house,
to put up like a camera like watches my car or something like that, maybe another camera
by the front door or something.
Yeah, yeah, just like a little wireless kind of, you know, RCA plug-in, plug-out,
and have all that going.
Whoa, somebody out in the rain or what?
I was like this.
No, not me this time.
But yeah, so yeah, so I was thinking it would be cool to have a way to integrate cameras
and stuff like that into the vehicle system.
Yeah, that's an awesome idea.
Yeah, so if I had a convenient stereo with, you know,
that had all these extra features and it had the screen,
well, that would be kind of neat.
So I'm kind of wanting to, I don't know if you guys remember,
I don't know which one it was.
It was one of those little Kevin Rose video shows.
It was either from the shadows or it might have been one of the broken,
but that was, in this particular episode, they built like a wireless video scanner.
And they were riding around in the car picking up wireless camera feeds.
Yeah, they're getting bigger than that.
They sold up somewhere.
Yeah, so I was kind of thinking, well, it needs to do something similar
with, you know, some hardware and electronics guy now.
So why not go ahead and, you know,
be cool to set up a little assistant since I'm on the road so much while I'm driving around
delivering pizzas.
It'd be cool just to leave it scanning.
See what pops up, you know.
Hey, oh, look, there's a camera here.
Oh, look, there's a camera there.
Just novelty factor, more or less, you know.
Oh, it'd be kind of cool.
Yeah.
Or you set up like a dash cam like the cops have.
Yeah.
Not like a, you know, like a camera somewhere inconspicuous and nobody can see it.
Just, you know, on your daily drive around.
Just, you know, like a, like a Google street thing.
Make your own rural street.
Oh, no.
Yeah.
Well, that's the thing.
The, uh, the stereo's got RCA in and the RCA out.
And, uh, have one of those digital camcorder,
dash camera daily, but they, uh, they use SD memory.
And, uh, like they have, uh, like the particular one I have is capable of recording up to like 720p.
High-definition video.
But it's, uh, capable of recording on RCA inputs or component inputs.
And so I was thinking, well, that would make a really cool recorder device.
So if I get some cameras or something like that hooked up in the car,
then I can use the RCA out and record to that little camcorder device
in a real-time stream.
So like Adam was talking about was like putting the camera up to watch the road.
Well, then I could record that feed to the SD card.
And if anything like happened, you know, it's, it's a solid state.
I don't have to worry about anything bouncing around.
So bad, you know, bad scenario.
Something happens.
I get in the rack or whatever.
All I have to do is, you know, I've got my own, quote, unquote little black box.
I don't want to pop that up in the car.
Then we have somebody tries to rob you, then you've got video evidence, too.
Yeah, at least, you know, if I'm in front of the car or in camera range.
But yeah, you know, if somebody pulls out in front of you or does something,
you know, one of those, it's your word versus their word kind of situation.
But like, oh yeah, with her.
Let's watch the tape.
Which makes it probably throw out.
Oh, oh yeah.
I don't know.
I don't know how at all admissible it would be.
But if, um, let me ask the expert here.
If somebody had a camera in their car and videotape the accident,
would it be a missile or a court?
I'm asking the expert here.
Who would the expert be?
Yeah, the person who falls.
The person who points it?
Yes, hold on.
Hello.
Hello.
Okay, so if somebody had an accident,
if somebody saw an accident and taped it,
or if somebody was in an accident.
One of the vehicles in the accident had a, um,
board black box type device.
Possibly.
I mean, it probably depends on the jurisdiction.
You know, I'm sure it's, it's very possible because, uh,
uh,
safe police, for instance, um,
they carry these little pockets, um,
camera remote control things that turn their cameras on in their car,
and it picks up audio and everything,
and that's all admissible in court.
So I would say probably.
Very highly possible.
Great.
So, Morgane, you could do that.
Excellent.
Hi, Morgane.
Hello.
How are you doing, East?
I'm doing okay.
I'm sitting here playing Lin City, trying to achieve greatness.
I'm addicted to it.
Everybody knows that Lin City is.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Just check it.
Yeah, I'm addicted to it.
What do I do?
What do I do?
What do I do?
10.
I like it.
I like it.
So we're 10.
I think it's a really like door.
It hates my computer, though.
Or my laptop.
Does it really?
Yeah, we're going.
I'm sorry.
I wasn't even a bunch of you for a long time and decided to try the door,
and I like it just fine.
Yeah, one guy.
Oh, the red guy.
She's playing her game.
So she's going to give me the phone back.
No, we have a verdict.
Yeah, it's a miss.
We have what?
We have a verdict if it's a missible or probably a missible.
More likely than not admissible.
Yeah, it'd be a missible.
Apparently, it's a felony if you videotape the crash, though.
Oh, right.
Didn't you tell me that?
Well, I think it's a Mr. Meanor.
What?
If you take pictures of the cops at a crash?
You can't take pictures of the cops at all, can you?
I don't think so.
But it's in public, so what?
Permission?
Right.
What if you're just taking a picture of a crash?
What if you're driving down the road?
It's illegal to sit and try to grab a crash and just find a truck and get out of the car randomly.
Because when we were going down the road that day and I was taking a picture of that crash,
you told me that the cops would call us over.
We're taking pictures.
It's a catch here.
Oh, good stuff.
With the military, something similar along the same line.
Like, you can't just randomly take pictures of youth in their military,
in all that light stuff.
Yeah?
Yeah.
I don't know, I take pictures of the military all the time.
But usually they're falling over my house at 400 miles an hour, so.
Yeah, if you're on the base, you can't take pictures.
And that has to do with the whole national security issue.
Yeah.
Which they did relax that for a while.
And then they might have reinstated it.
But now, if you worked on the base, you can't take pictures of, obviously,
you can't take pictures of certain parts of the base.
You know, that are restricting areas.
Right.
Any restricting, after a certain class, you know, class is secret.
You can't take pictures of it.
Anyway, I think we're going to wrap it up here in a couple of minutes.
Nah, no, we still got it.
We still got a good another hour to go there.
Well, the Santa hasn't finished his route around the Earth yet.
Yeah, well, yeah.
Me, I'm going to bed.
But everybody got, everybody got Arduino's for Christmas then.
Every time.
No, I got my, I got my triple EPC.
That's what I'm, what I'm going for.
That, who's I get a triple EPC?
What?
Who is that? Is that a Nigma?
Yeah.
That would be me, standing in a triple E.
A Nigma?
Yeah.
Oh, that's awesome, dude.
Guys, which one did you get?
The 901 series.
The one gig, 16 gig solid-state drive,
and a fleet little laptop,
or an effort, whatever.
Well, yeah, I know, love it.
I know I love mine.
Yeah, solid-state's where it's at.
We just had to replace the hard drive and her laptop.
That's one of the reasons she used to put her Accors
because the hard drive is fucking failed.
And she replaced it herself.
Well, who she says?
She replaced her own hard drive in her laptop,
because it failed miserably.
But it was, it was under warranty from Dell,
so we got a free hard drive from Dell to replace it.
And I blame the kid for dropping the laptop
for making this fucking...
For wrecking the hard drive, you know.
We didn't get the solid-state model.
I don't even think we got the model with the free fault sensor.
Because we got the Dell from the refurbished,
Dell was the Dell warehouse.
Oh, yeah.
The Dell outlet where you get the refurbished models.
It's like, if you look at the top of it,
like it says DEL with 1L,
and like, there's an L off to the side, on the side of the thing.
Here the lettering got misplaced and it's off to the corner.
And for the longest time, I wondered why this L was on the side of the box.
So what the fuck is this L doing here?
It's still me, it's still left side with the fuck.
And then eventually I realized that it was like the L from the logo
that it just got unstuck from where it was supposed to be
and moved over like fucking eight inches.
I don't know.
Oh, well that explains it.
But yeah, solid-state drives definitely fucking, you know,
nothing more about the vibration and all that shit.
Yes, you can chuck it across the room and it still works.
I turned my EPC into a car PC.
And those little guys for something just like straight out of the box
make a fantastic car computing platform.
The screen gets broad enough to see the light.
I mean, like I made a little platform for mine and I put some Velcro on the bottom.
And so like I literally just, you know, I'd get in the car
putting my platform on the dash.
It's the Velcro with EPC on it.
I had GPS, internet, all that stuff going because I had my own
dongles, the EPC for internet,
had GPS going in killer.
And you don't have to worry about road bumps or anything like that.
Like I could wear my sunglasses and still see the screen on a bright sunny day.
Fantastic little, uh, our unit.
I hadn't really seen any other people doing that.
No other people's pens on the belt,
aren't interested in it, whatever.
Yeah, like it was super awesome.
Great.
It sounds like it.
So does anyone have any closing words for the, for our listeners, I guess?
Don't smoke crack.
And to continue that thread, don't smoke meth.
Yeah.
Watch the con.
I can't breathe right.
Freebasing, okay?
No, freebasing is not okay.
I'm sorry, I asked.
Cocaine is God's punishment for people with too much fucking money.
Okay, in the hell of a drug.
This is the worst episode.
And, and to continue that thread,
Apple is punishment for geeks with too much fucking money.
Yeah.
And it's just, it's, it's Linux for geeks with too much money.
Yes.
Yes.
Oh, yeah, this is the worst episode ever.
No, this is the worst episode ever.
What are you talking about?
It just don't know about how awesome this show is.
It's a bitch who don't know how awesome this episode's been.
Yeah, it's just a crash.
This is a crash, no.
Well, the next time, the next time I do a live show,
I hopefully will be a little more prepared and, you know, have stream working
and Klausu will actually show the hell up.
Tested him by flight.
See, he's still pissed about Klausu.
That's why he thinks it's a bad show.
Here he is.
See, he's almost the same.
Klausu is on IRC.
You want to give him hell?
Oh, yeah.
No.
Yo, dog, I heard you like to listen to headphones.
So I'll add it a second headphone port so you can listen to your headphones
while you listen to your headphones.
He always the crazy people lasted that one.
It's like the crazy cat.
Okay.
You, you are a crazy cat and we're going.
Hey, yeah.
On that note, I think we're going to call it a night.
That's okay.
We can call it a day if you want, it's fun.
Yeah, I'm going to call it a day and if everybody wants to, you know,
wish everybody married Christmas and then, you know, drop off the call.
I appreciate it.
Thanks.
I appreciate it if you'd all hang up now.
Appreciate it if you get the hell off my concert.
Merry Christmas, everybody.
Merry Christmas, y'all.
Happy festival.
Best of it, yeah.
Happy non-denominational holiday, everyone.
Come on.
Congratulations on waking up and breathing another day in a row.
All right.
Call later.
All right.
And now if we don't get to sleep, Santa Claus isn't coming.
Try that.
And I think we are done.
Hey, hey, hey.
Thank you for listening to Access Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by tarot.net.
So head on over to C-A-R-O dot-E-C for all of us to meet.
