Episode: 369
Title: HPR0369: UCLUG May Meeting
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0369/hpr0369.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 19:16:36

---

.
The Southeast Linux Fest is a community event for anyone who wants to learn more about Linux and free and open source software.
It is part educational conference and part social gathering.
Like Linux itself, it is shared with the attendees of all skill levels to communicate tips and ideas and to benefit all who use Linux and free and open source software.
Linux Fest is a place to learn, to make new friends, to network with new business partners and most importantly to have fun.
Come join us for the first annual Southeast Linux Fest on June 13, 2009 in Clemson South Carolina.
Register today at SoutheastLinuxFest.org.
Welcome to the Upstate Carolina Linux User Group Podcast.
Yes? Yes.
Well, hey, y'all. Welcome to the Upstate Carolina lecture group.
My name is Jace. You can call me Jace. Just call me Jace.
Today is, let me get to, for recording purposes, May 13, 2012, May 12, 2009, and what?
So today we have Mike Major giving us a new session on the new cache and then later on, our fearless leader Rick Smith will be giving us a little presentation on the Google phone.
I'll probably end up being a kind of book.
A lighting talk?
I'm not sure.
Well, it's a Mac.
Oh, you got Linux on Mac.
So, without further ado, Mike, if you'll take it away.
You want to start that?
We'll do that in the middle.
Okay.
Once again, I'm Mike Major and earlier in the year, we talked about, well, what do we want to know about this year?
We made a big long list.
Jace said, well, what do you want to know?
And I said, I want to know about new cache or new cache, as it's called again.
Does anybody know about it?
Nobody raised their hands, so I got the volunteer for it.
So I spent the last several months working with the new cache, trying to figure it out, essentially, because of my mom, who's right there.
She's still in the Windows world, and of course, probably if you know about Linux, you know there's a couple things that hold it back and cache management's one of them.
So if I get her convinced, then she'll come over to the Linux world with us.
So that's why it does.
As you can see, it's not going to be in-depth. It's a new recession.
Of course, I can't go into it anyway, because I don't know a lot about it.
I am using version 227.
This talk is going to be geared more towards the personal user, as opposed to the business user, but the new cache will do business functions as well.
I can talk a little bit about that.
Like I said, it's not going to be an in-depth exploration of installation or customization or anything like that.
We're going to talk about these things.
Double entry county, and what it means, split transactions, transaction import, you can imagine, load manager, and schedule transactions.
Budgeting reports, online transaction support, and touch lightly on business topics.
So that's a preview of what's to come.
So double entry county, what does that mean?
If you're to count like my mom, you know what that means. Maybe we should have works like that.
It doesn't want to get a presentation mode for some reason.
Double entry county means there's always two accounts involved.
The money's got to come from some account, and it's got to go to another account.
So, for example, your paycheck comes from an account called income salary, or you can set it up for...
I work for company XYZ, you can say income, company XYZ, and it goes to assets checking, or whatever you want to set up to be.
And by the same token, payments go out.
Mike from your electric bill goes out from checking to expenses, utilities, electric.
And you can set all these categories up to be anything you want them to be.
But what's kind of nice about good new cash is he comes pre-configured with several charts of accounts.
And that's account to speak for where you want to put all your money, how you want to categorize it.
It's called a chart of accounts.
So you've got income, you've got expenses, you've got liabilities, you've got loans, whatever you want to... how deep you want to get.
So you can start out with a checkbook.
If you don't want to get your feet wet with it with too much else, you can add in education, car, mortgage loans, homeowners expenses, like utilities, investments, CE, money markets,
spouse income, if your spouse works, then you can have an account that says income, primary income spouse, business accounts, and then I was working with the portable apps version of this that work today at lunch.
It looked okay on the windows side, but coming over here, it's a little bit different.
So that's why some of the formatting looks so weird, but additional accounts will be added later.
So if you just start out with a checking account and you say, you know what, I like this a lot, I'm going to keep going.
I want to add all my household accounts, things like that, then just start typing away, add them in later, so problem.
This is a screenshot of the first set-up screen you set up an account.
So common accounts is pretty much what everybody gets, you get assets, equity expenses.
If you have C's and money market, all you do is get the checkbox and you get that one too.
I really wanted to try and find a way that if you start out without a child like me, and then you have a child later,
it'd be nice if you could go back and just say, well, I want to add the child care set of accounts, but I never could find a way to do that.
Maybe there's a way, I don't know, but I wasn't, wasn't successful.
Split transactions.
We talked about your paycheck earlier.
To be really honest and detailed about it, your paycheck doesn't just come from income and go to check it.
It comes from your company and some of it goes to federal withholding.
That's what you pay your taxes with.
It goes to Social Security, it goes to State withholding, maybe it goes to 401K if you got that.
And then what's left over goes to checking.
So a split transaction is you get income and then it goes to many different accounts.
I just thought about this morning, I don't know if you could have a split transaction where you have multiple incomes coming to the same destination account.
I don't know if that would even make sense.
My accountant bought the same note, so I'm going to say, I'm going to go current.
And this is a screenshot of what a split transaction might look like.
So you might make $1,000 in salary, but you only get $900 in your checking account because 33 of it goes to taxes,
10 goes to Social Security, so on and so forth.
I think you probably get the idea.
You've been around long enough.
Transaction importing, that's a fairly big deal.
We all want, I mean everything's computerized today, so why can't we just make it as easy as possible?
Transactions can be imported into a new patch, just like everything else.
The two big formats are OFX Open Finance Exchange, which is actually proprietary,
and you have to pay a company's pay license to use that format to quicken or intuit.
And QIF is the quick and interchange format.
It's an Open format, it's the predecessor OFX, it's non-licensed.
But there's some issues around that, which causes them to create the OFX version like
if you're dealing with multiple currencies or something like that.
If you've got a business and you're selling stuff in Euros, QIF doesn't really allow you to say,
this transaction is in Euros, but the next transaction is in dollars, and the next one is in Chinese, whatever they use.
You want or something, right? Something like that.
So that's why OFX is used, and it's pretty much the main one nowadays.
When you import transactions, if you're using a new patch every day, you're typing stuff in,
or just so you don't forget, it will match transactions if they already exist.
So when you bring something in, and you've already entered your $24 Wal-Mart purchase,
because you're so happy that you went to Wal-Mart, you haven't had it down.
It'll find that transaction.
The parameters for matching are customizable, so if you say if it gets within a dollar and a day,
that's close enough to match it up.
Or if you want to be spot on, you say you've got to be within a penny and you've got to be within,
maybe I don't know if you can go less than a day, that really makes sense.
But you can customize those parameters.
And the big thing really, like if you're in the Windows world or if you're using another software package,
you can export your current system in either QIF or OFX,
and then you can import that into a new patch.
And it will bring with it all of your existing categories or accounts, something like that.
So that's where I got started.
Really, I used, well, I had Monday 7, I didn't use it.
But export from Monday 7 in OFX, bring it into a new cache,
and maybe you've got an expense for your snapper lawnmower.
And that's probably not one of the normal accounts that comes set up.
It'll say, oh, is this a new account?
Do you want to set it up?
And you can say, yeah.
Or you can probably map that to a different account.
So that's really the big deal on transaction importing.
And that's pretty much all of that.
So you can see right here Walmart Supercenter, we are really happy when it went home,
had already typed in our Walmart expense for 1799 on 324.
And when we went to the bank, I banked with Bank of America,
you can go to their website and get any list of transactions you want in OFX format.
And you can see that it matched that transaction already.
So it won't duplicate that transaction over a double dip, however you want to think about it.
Forage loans.
I was pretty happy about how it handles mortgage loans.
I think there's still got a little bit of work to do here.
But overall, it works quite well.
You put in the loan amount.
Obviously, when the loan started, the term of the loan,
the interest rate, that sort of thing.
And it'll automate your amortization.
So every month, it'll get the interest in the principal portion correct.
It handles adjustable rate mortgages.
It handles fixed rate mortgages.
So if you have a 5-1 arm, you can put in, it's a 5-1 arm.
It restats every June.
For the next year, it'll do that.
It'll handle it.
You can hit it'll ask you if you want to use escrow accounts for taxes insurance,
private mortgage insurance, things like that.
And then if you use the scheduled transactions, it'll pop up and say,
ah, you should have made your house payment by now.
It'll pop it up and it'll say, and you can redo it.
So there's a great shot of setting up the loan information.
Here's the loan account.
So it's under loans.
Mortgage loan is just real simple.
It could be anything you want.
You've got multiple properties.
You can multiple property names up there.
There's your amount.
You're fretting your interest rate.
If it's fixed rate or adjustable, whatever.
Start a link in years or months.
And then it'll tell you how many years or months are remaining.
That's where you could choose to use an escrow account.
I didn't get real deep with that, but it does do it.
And of course, if you check those boxes and it says,
well, what account is your tax account?
Which account is your PMI account?
That's the first thing.
Here's the screenshot of the improvisation.
So I didn't find where they documented that formula there.
So if you want to use it somewhere else, they probably do.
But it says, OK, you want to make payments for this loan out of what account.
Pay the principal to this account, the interest to this account.
How often do you make your payment?
Is it not a five-weekly status or a monthly status?
What do you do?
Do you pay every week?
Some people pay twice a month to cut down the principal.
That's what I mean.
And then when you're done, it says, well, here's your memorization schedule for the next so many periods.
Which I think is pretty nice.
Schedule transactions are similar to the loan.
If you want to go ahead and set up, well, I got to discover magazine subscription
and I paid them $3 a month or whatever.
You can enter that in.
And it'll enter that in for you as much as you want.
Typically, when you start the program, let me swap over to your desktop.
That's just a little, you can see a little UC load play area I created.
It wants to create the loan payment that we saw advertised and then also the satellite TV.
So I start up the software and it says, oh, you've got schedule transactions.
If you want to, you can review them before you accept them or you can just accept them straight in.
I think that's pretty nice.
They can have multiple frequencies daily, weekly, monthly, every two weeks, every three months, every seven days, every two days, whatever.
Whatever you want to do.
From any account to any account, they can have splits.
Anything you can do, it can be a schedule transaction as well.
There's a screenshot of what I just showed you.
Yeah.
Do a number of just telling you you need to go and do them.
That's in the online transaction support.
Some financial institutions support that.
We'll see that in a couple of seconds.
It doesn't.
It doesn't.
Yeah.
The buy-challenge is going to be if it's something that supports an online transaction.
Yeah.
Otherwise, it's just like a reminder that you need to write your check.
Yeah.
But it does the M340.
But it will also export.
If your institution supports it, it will export an OFX to your institution that says debt with this account.
It's in it to these people.
Budget.
I'm just now getting started with the budgets.
You can enter budgets by category.
Maybe you want to be very detailed.
Maybe you want to be very far from your information.
You can use it also if you're in a business.
I saw a lot of discussions on the internet about are we talking capital budgeting?
Or are we talking just check-book budgeting?
What are we talking about here?
Capital expenditures over the next three-year business plans, something like that?
Or what?
It'll handle both.
You can tell it to use historical transactions.
So if you've got a bunch of data in there from last year and you say, well, our electric field goes high in the summer and it goes down in the winter because we have gas heat.
You can tell it's pulling starting from January last year or actually this is May.
You tell it starting from May of last year, clock in for what I paid last month or last year in this month to this year this month.
And the same thing.
So it will carry on out for you.
I think that's pretty nice.
And it provides a standard report for you to compare your actual spending versus your budget spending.
Now we get to online transactions.
It does support online transactions for all effects, importing directly from many institutions.
I tried Bank of America.
I didn't get it to work yet.
It's probably something that's set up because other people claim they got it to work.
It claims to work with Scott Trade and Discover Credit Card and other stuff.
I have a Discover Card and I did get it to work with Discover.
It imported all my transactions from like a year and a half ago.
Everything they had, they brought in, which was pretty cool.
I don't use my Discover Card a lot, so it's not a lot of typing, but still.
Once it gives you those transactions, it will remember how he's already got those and I go back and get more and it'll say,
give me the ones that I don't have.
Some institutions do charge for this. Bank of America charges for it unless you have a certain kind of account.
I happen to have that certain kind of account, but you do have to keep minimums and that sort of thing.
We've fell into a minimum of ones and they charge you ten bucks for it.
They call it quickness for it, but the only problem is if you call them up and they say,
well what's up for you writing you some, we'll just don't worry about it because you don't know where it is.
Are you running money? No. Are you running Quicken? No.
What do you run in Linux? Okay, bye.
That's okay. We like Linux, so we like getting the details that you can add on our own.
There's a pretty good website that Vinikash maintains on setting up the effects direct.
They've got all the bank codes for a lot of institutions, including Discover Card, Bank of America.
Some pretty obscure banks out in New Jersey, whatever. Credit cards, ScottTrade, whatever.
Just go to that website and it'll help you set up your transactions online.
There are quite a few standard reports that are set up, but in my experience standard reports don't really do what you want to do.
I haven't really used a lot of reporting other than tax time.
Really, the only time I ever use this is a tax time. At the end of the year, I want to run a tax report and say,
tell me everything that's written tax related. And you can do that. Every account that you set up,
it has a little flag that says tax related. And if you flag that, you can run a report.
It'll tell you if these charity donations, you spend this much interest, you improve your rental property for $2,500, all those things that you can take them on your taxes.
Including, you know, obviously federal state holding.
On the business side, the intangibles, customers, suppliers, employees, invoicing, and payments.
We have a little side business that I actually thought about trying to make an invoice in here.
But I don't know what it would do if you made an invoice for someone who hadn't actually ordered something.
It was just essentially a quotation. So I didn't try it yet.
So I'm kind of still trying to get my feet wet here as well.
So that's the new cash in 20 minutes probably. 25.
Any questions?
I guess so.
Can you turn off the double entry stocks?
No. Why would you want to do that?
Because it makes my head hurt.
I mean, I tried. I tried getting a cash. I tried.
I tried it. I ended up settling on a money dance, which is slightly proprietary.
They've opened source of plug-ins. It's $29.
It's more like quick ink. It's more for dummies like me.
No, it's double entry stuff. I don't understand. I tried that.
It is a little bit. It takes some getting used to.
But once you get it working, I like it.
It makes you account for everything. There's no fudge in stuff.
I think the idea of the double entry is that everything balances out.
It comes from one place that goes to another.
Right. Go down to the bottom line and sum it all up. It's got some zero.
Something comes in and it goes out some other place.
That's why it's done that way.
It's an easy way for the account to make sure that you've got everything right.
It may be some money's understood too. I may make it required.
I think the thing about this is that when you put in a transaction, it takes care of both sides of that.
If you pay for something with a credit card, it's going to market when you credit card account
and against whatever budget item you've got.
If it's gas, then you can keep track of how much you're spending on gas.
Then when you pay your credit card, it's going to take you out of your check.
It will subtract from your checking and add it back in so that your credit card back comes up to zero.
That way it keeps.
You really need to understand, like, debit some credits.
Because a debit is not always a down.
One thing I found in here that I don't like is sometimes it depends on what kind of account you're talking about.
If you talk about your checking account, it'll be an increase or a decrease.
If you're talking about a loan, it's like they use other terminology.
If you talk about another kind of account, like an equity account, it's different terminology.
So I'm forever being confused about which column the numbers should go in.
That is difficult to understand.
Well, I'm just a checker and a savings kind of guy.
Money didn't suit me.
The problem is that you have, if I give dinner tonight, my charge into give Joe's on my credit card.
If I'm one else.
Yes.
So if I charge it on my credit card, then one of two things happens.
It looks like I pay $20 and then I have this separate expense called paying my credit card bill, which isn't there.
And that's one of the things double in three account accounts with.
Or it looks like I'm just tossing gobs of money at my credit card bill and I'm not seeing that I'm spending 30% of my money on it.
You didn't get the transactions to make your credit card current.
That's what I did.
I brought in everything that was just related to checking account.
I didn't account for everything that was in the credit card.
So my credit card looked like they owed me about $7,000 when they really didn't.
I just hadn't entered all those transactions in yet.
And it would come from checking to go to the credit card and it would bring that to zero, hopefully.
And then you'd have the associate transaction for dinner from the credit card to the dining staff.
All right.
So if we review the transactions that I wanted to create for the loan, it says the principal should be 388OA for this fictitious loan.
The interest is 375 and our total payment was 77783.
Nice.
And then, of course, our satellite TV.
And again, here, they're using total funds in, total funds out.
Let's scroll a little more to the left.
Here's your phone.
There you go.
Just try.
So, like I said, it's total funds in, total funds out here.
Whereas if you look at the checking account, they're talking deposit and withdrawal.
And to me, that gets a little confusing.
So you kind of got to just look at what's going on.
You can show, you can show splits on any transaction you want.
You can have, you can have it always show splits for whatever transaction you're on.
It will do.
Double line is how you put in a note.
Let me turn off that split because it's a little confusing.
But if you want to say, artistic cutters.
There's that now.
Where is it?
So, here's your note.
For pet smart, the note came in because of the import transaction, OFS, whatever.
You can say, well, that was for the cat decline or whatever.
And it'll save that.
You can duplicate transactions, which sometimes comes in nice if you make a mistake on something.
And there's a big long split.
And there's only one thing's wrong, whatever.
You can duplicate, change the date, whatever.
That's really nice.
If you're looking here, like in pet smart, it goes to miscellaneous.
You can hit jump.
It'll jump over to miscellaneous, which is nice.
You can toggle back and forth.
The count says we have set up here.
We have assets, equity, expenses, and that's where most people add their stuff.
If you want to look at, like, maybe under insurance, like health insurance,
is probably going to look at, if you want to edit your account.
We have an HSA, so that, for us, is tax related.
So if I hit tax related, that'll show up on my tax report at the end of the year.
So if I go into health insurance and just make a transaction, I'll fast.
Wow.
And this is really nice too.
If you just start typing the category, it'll pop up assets.
You say colon, current assets, and you go down, it's from checking.
And let's say we spent $78.
So now at the end of the year, you do your tax report.
It says, oh, remember that $78 you spent on health insurance?
Well, don't take that account in your taxes.
So that's kind of nice.
I like that.
Somehow, I missed reporting in here.
Well, I guess the only thing I wanted to say about reporting is,
you can customize reports if you know the scheme.
I've not run across scheme before, but probably other people have.
It sounds like it's fairly well known.
I don't know.
I don't use a lot of reports because, typically, the one side fits all report,
doesn't fit exactly what I wanted to do.
But, like I said, I'm not a power user yet.
Now, when you start out, how do you start out?
I mean, you could say-
It's zeros and everything, and I don't know.
You say file, you file.
It's got a wizard and helps you.
You're going to deal with-
I mean, do you look at your current bank statement with that number?
That's, I think, another part of the issue where you might get screwed on.
If you just pick a day, January 1, 2007,
you start importing all your transactions from there,
your bank account wasn't zero on January 1st.
It had some kind of balance in it.
I think there is an account.
I know there is an account that has something to do with equity opening balances.
So, I just kind of have treated that as a track account.
If I needed to have a track account,
so everything that I need an opening balance for, like my car.
My car loan probably started maybe in 2000,
and it's going on until it was win, because the keeper of the answer is whatever.
It needs to have an opening balance on it.
So, I've just thrown a whole bunch of opening balances in here.
So, if you say checking account,
assets, checking account,
and again, see you see it here, increased decrease, it drives me crazy.
So, I don't really know where to put it to say that my checking account
had 1789.56 when it started.
And you would, you could pick the date on when you wanted that.
Maybe it's January 1st this year.
So, that was just your way of working around a starting point.
Yeah, you got to start somewhere.
Yeah.
From the name of the account opening balances,
I took it to mean that's what this is for.
It's just kind of a track account.
Do you agree with that?
Accounting mother?
Yeah, it's probably good.
Yeah, he's going to do it.
It's what he's trying to do.
What?
He's trying to do it.
He's trying to do it.
He's trying to do it.
He's trying to do it.
He's trying to do it.
He's trying to do it.
He's trying to do it.
He's trying to do it.
He's trying to do it.
He's trying to do it.
Yeah.
He's trying to do it.
He's trying to do it.
Yeah, it's a track account.
How does that work?
It's just going to step into it.
It's going to step into it.
Yeah.
So, basically, we have never met before.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We should.
I'm trying to use this all I've got to do is work on it for maybe an hour, so it's not very long.
But I was able to import stuff from her.
You mentioned the account providing all that stuff I could never prepare for you to do with it.
How do you start?
You know, we don't have anything to do or from that sort of setup.
Yeah.
And, like I said, I've brought all that stuff in.
I started a bureau.
You just start interconnecting all the treatment money.
As you go along.
You know, I think that these things are so hard to find.
You know, it's probably what you'd be able to do to choose one of those targets.
But if I have several things to do the other side.
Yes.
I would say my target is that one.
I might have to do one.
You know, just have a time you can actually have time.
Like that.
But, uh.
You can go to say that.
Yeah.
My.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think.
Yeah.
Basically, the turn of accounts is each account that the list is a list of accounts of the things
that you want to track.
Right.
So if you want to track a food separate from everything else, then you'll want to make sure that you have an account for that.
Underneath.
You want to do your checkbook.
And if you want to keep your balance, then you can create an account to say, things I spent money on.
Yeah.
You know, because you're going to go out of your checkbook and it went into things I spent money on.
Yeah.
And that keeps it balanced.
And you're done.
Okay.
But if you want to keep track of your food, your gas, that's something else.
Then you'll want to separate accounts for that so that you can track those things as you go along.
Right.
When it comes to budgeting, then you can say, I expect to spend $200 a month on gas.
And so whenever you have a credit card bill that is for gas, that it takes it out of that $200.
You can say, ooh, I'm getting close to my limit, you know, of what I expect to spend this month.
And now I've, you know, budget is just planning what you think you're going to spend.
And then, you know, you may allocate $100 a month for car repair.
So you don't spend that much every month.
But then you can track it.
And how am I doing this year?
Have I spent my, you know, this is fifth month.
Have I spent $500 on repairs this year?
Ooh, no.
Well, we're doing okay.
So in our budget, and we're not going to go bankrupt.
The reason they have a chart of accounts out there is like, you want to go get a loan and then ask people to go to your house to make some donations.
And then they said, um, they do a hand card, they're asking you, how do cars do that?
And you get a problem and all that.
And you just want to keep that money to take this, like you said.
Like you said, checking the account.
And all that's going to happen.
That's like, I don't know if you do other accounts.
You know, if I keep it simple.
It's like, does it work?
Does it work?
Remember, like, $2,000 is the power.
Does it see that again?
We'll remember and automatically put it there.
And you have to do that.
Yeah.
The other time.
No.
Did you start, did you start traveling?
Did it work?
Did it work?
Sometimes it did, and sometimes it did.
It doesn't always do that.
No, that's it.
I know, money does.
And that, I was a little bit disappointed on it.
Sometimes it remembered, and sometimes it didn't.
Exactly.
Not a power usage yet.
I can't tell you why it did or why it didn't.
But I don't have a lot of transactions.
It's okay for me to just go through every month and say,
did 20 or 30 things we spent money on.
Here's what they did.
Here's what they went.
Good.
What I'm going to add is it treats it just like the accounting system,
where your two credit sides or your left column
are even going to be a cash derivative.
And then your credit columns are going to be an expense
of liability or an equity.
So your positive balance is for your cash derivative
and for what you pivot, remainder going to be a credit cent.
What if it's a credit card account?
If it's a credit card, then it's an expense.
You probably just had an accounting class, didn't you?
You probably just took an accounting class, didn't you?
Two of you know.
Right.
Right.
I took an accounting class probably 15 years ago,
so it's not so fresh in my mind.
I know this is not set up.
It's not in the first account.
If you were to move an accounting and exchange that,
so it's an assistant, what do you want to do or not?
Did it make sense to you?
I mean, your accounting.
No, it's very difficult to move because of the accounting system.
The terminology needs to be consistent.
And they can definitely prove that.
That is a program.
It takes a lot of time.
I'm just a little figured out.
That's just welcome.
Since we're throwing out alternatives,
if you don't mind having your money or transactions
out on a website, you can try bint.com.
It's web based that will work on it.
Let's fill it up.
Bint.
Like a year has been.
Why are bint and gt?
Am I easy?
Like my usbint.com?
Yep, bint.com.
Bint.
Bint.
Like the usbint.
Experiment.
Experiment.
Bint.
Bint.
It's in the corral.
I mentioned it a while ago.
Did you say that a while ago?
No, I mentioned money dance.
I don't think I said it was cross-platform.
It runs on Linux.
Yeah.
It does cost $29.
That's a job of programming.
Yes, Java.
And you pay $29.
And then it's free upgrades for life after that.
I had the problem getting online banking working
and the developer, the main developer emailed me four or five times
helping me through it.
Nice.
Real good support.
Yeah.
You know, it's worth $29.
I've been using it for two years.
It leaves it for my insularies.
So it doesn't matter what the person has.
It's probably how to use it as being a Java agent.
It's really easy to make.
The money dance is really simple.
If you're used to using something like Quicken,
you just get chicken and say even this.
That's what I've been doing.
We actually praise Java and John here.
He's done here.
Right.
It's okay.
We're recording it.
Wherever he is, he'll be ready.
He'll be ready.
Thank you.
Well, thank you, Mike.
We appreciate it.
All right.
Well, I'd like to welcome everyone to do this here for the first time.
It's good to see some new places.
This is my bride.
She's Mrs. Chase.
She's a new face.
So I guess now I'm for the news.
Would you like to give us something on the...
I've seen...
Yes, Mr. Jesus.
I've not seen it.
I'll even stand up for once.
I think I just can't.
I think I just can't.
26 people here.
And how many of you are not registered for this apathy clinic space?
What is your name?
All those people with their hands raised.
How many are going to have self?
You should.
You should.
Very ill.
Impossible.
Everybody in this room must do this.
You can make it June 13th.
It's a Saturday.
Does anybody in here know that it is when the clinic space is in a conference?
A conference is something you go to.
When it's over, you go home.
The clinic space is something that when it's over, you stay there a little while.
There's like a party after.
We're going to have two of those.
It was one Friday night and one Saturday night.
We've got...
We're going to have 18 speakers.
I'm really bad at names.
Krista Bona.
Wendy Seltzer.
Wendy Seltzer from the...
Songers.
Yeah, we're going to have two distro community managers or project leaders.
Look at that tile.
Mr. Paul Frills from Fedora.
And Joe Zonker brought Meyer from Open Suitsa.
Greg DeKonisberg.
Greg DeKonisberg.
Senior Community Architect for...
Right hand.
That's title.
We're going to have a lot of...
We're going to have a lot of good speakers.
We're going to have a lot of good speakers.
We're about to fill up our Expo Hall.
We can hold about 20 booths this year.
But I've got my laptop set up over there.
And if you want to go to the Southeast links, this registration is free.
That accounts to dime.
If you won't dispense some dimes, you can spend $50 and become a supporter.
And that will get you a teacher and the satisfaction of supporting the first year Linux
fast in the Southeast in our backyard.
And some drink tickets.
Yeah, I forgot the important thing.
And drink tickets.
It's where the people who are registered as supporters will get...
It's probably two free drinks to start with.
We'll see what that goes from there.
We've got a pre-party and an after-party before.
I'm proud of you.
Hi.
I'm Frederick on the Internet and say that I wanted to go on to here.
I need to go back to the Internet and website and see what needs to go on to here.
And I wrote this at office.
I don't know what needs to be done.
So I can't say I'm going to the cooking room.
I don't know if it's new cash or whatever.
You need to talk to Kevin.
Yes.
Talk to Kevin.
We need volunteers for things such as...
We're going to...
The Comfort Inn in Clemson is the official hotel of the Southeast East East.
We've got a block of rooms.
I think 40 or so to start with available to us through May 30th at $70 a night.
So if you want to stay there where the parties and stuff is going to be,
you can make your reservations at Comfort Inn.
But we'll need somebody there Friday night to maybe pre-register some people.
We'll need somebody at the event early Saturday morning to register some people.
We'll need people to pass out stuff.
We'll need people to stop the brochures in the bag.
We're going to need a good double handful.
10 or 15 people I would think.
Did you dig up or did you dig before?
Both, yes.
Yes.
Before?
Yes.
Yeah, we're taking that out too.
But this is it, Nathan.
I'm serious.
If you want me to just on the dial, let me know.
And I'll start doing it.
Okay.
And we've got a couple of choice positions.
We do need to have, I think, a list of what is needed.
Well, first off before we get further off topic.
If you are going to stay to Comfort Inn, you need to mention us.
You get a discount.
And if you don't mention those, you won't get a route because they're running out of rooms and hurting them.
Yeah.
They turn away some of our, they turn away some of our business already.
But we've got a couple of choice positions on the Friday proceeding and the Sunday following event.
We're bringing in virtually every speaker is flying in.
And so we're going to have to make some runs to the airport back.
So if you want to sit in a van with someone either from GSP or from Atlanta.
Charlotte, maybe.
Perhaps Charlotte and, you know, have the chance to bend some open source limitaries here for an hour or more.
We can hook you up with that.
You do have to drive a van for a while.
You do have to be about 25 and, you know, have a driving record with doesn't.
All of them to want to charge us about 1000 bucks to what you're in the park.
What are you talking about?
I have 12 van to the van.
I'll put the foot of the hatch and you can leave.
Well, definitely.
I'll send you an email.
Probably tomorrow.
Thank you.
That's for you.
Did you have a question?
I also make a suggestion.
I'm going to be doing the driving.
Make sure you do not leave that van unless the person comes up to the van.
I've worked at the airport.
Oh, yeah.
They will give you tickets.
Well, we've got so many people coming in and coming in from different places.
Well, I'm saying it.
I mean, if nobody's there, do nothing of that van.
Yeah.
This is what the most that they do not put up.
But it's part of our care goes.
If you just want to say, I'm available to help the day off.
We'll find something for you to do because I'm sure there's something we've not thought I'd get that needs to be doing.
It's all a guy.
See, see Kevin if you want to volunteer.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
So we have the first official, I guess, technology center in Charleston, which was.
But that's what we're going to do.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, okay.
So we have the first official, I guess, technology center in Charleston, which was put together by a number of groups.
Actually, mainly the Charleston South Carolina.
I choose groups.
Yes.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yes, he looked at work.
A lot of really good about there.
They go down with Austin.
And he got some computers from CDC.
And they partnered with the city of Charleston and the folks who run the Gussie Green.
Green Center.
Chickery.
So we're on one of the Chickery communities and we're talking about in the Charleston area.
So Ian, this 10 to 15 node lab at the community center there calling the Gussie Green Technology Center.
Basically, they're going to partner up there for months and a half in Charleston.
They do offer the classes.
I mean, they're actually starting this week.
They're teaching.
I mentioned it all to both the source-based curriculum.
They're going to teach some basic web skills of an office.
I think they're lining up and kind of with the curriculum.
They're going to start teaching for seven years.
So the user group is kind of thinking on the wing.
They're going to be kind of helping the administrative staff there.
They're going to lay out on a kind of regular plan of teaching.
And get some job skills going.
The goal is it's going to get people into a better and any job.
Kind of get more force-development in that area.
And so we've got a lot of buzz.
A lot of the press down there.
And they are held.
We're now in the process of starting that.
So Shade is going to be helping that up.
I don't know if they can help you.
Kind of help you.
They can help you.
And Freelink Species is going to have a booth that sells these slums.
That's the hope.
Yeah.
I've got a bunch of volunteers.
I actually run the booth.
So it's probably about two people.
You know, kind of thing out.
Yeah.
We're going to do that.
And we are going to have some pictures of videos there.
And we've got the Green Technology Center.
We've got a new website on Freelink.
It's really easy to get out the war.
If anyone is interested in volunteering, then I'll fill that.
Please, please.
We don't have a problem there.
So, yeah.
So, come along.
Well, if you do have a booth that South East London is best,
will you be taking donations?
Well, for those who may be attending.
Yeah.
I'm going to go.
That does the webcast.
We've got text.
I think we've written more.
Text at you.
For Freelink Species.
All right.
You're going to get this.
So, it's true.
I don't think that's right.
Yeah.
Well, we are going to be seeking nonprofits.
So, I'm just going to help with that moment.
I call with myself, basically, the half of the website.
And kind of get the idea out there and give them logs.
Involve the concept of, hey, here's an easy way to go out and create a good,
direct people on board.
If you want to do it, you know, go to the website and learn.
You know, you're going to see what we're going to do.
Yeah.
I mean, as far as the donations go, we will definitely accept, you know,
people who want to, you know.
And that was the time I went with them, you know.
But, yeah.
We're in the outstate.
So, it's kind of a thing.
I'm, you know, the squirrels are local.
I've never tried the donations.
Right.
So, yeah.
We'll work it out.
One more thing, Jake.
Okay.
I just want to remind people, again, that the laptops over there that want to register.
It is free.
It's only going to be credit card number if you want to give us $50.
It's, it's completely free.
And this is just a South Carolina thing.
This is a Southeast thing.
We hope to have 500 people there.
There's going to be free Wi-Fi at the event.
There's going to be free Wi-Fi at the comfort end.
We're going to have three simultaneous tracks to speakers.
There's, there's something for everybody.
If you don't want to listen to this speaker, there's two more you can listen to.
In between the Expo Hall and the other, hopefully, 409 on people that will be there beside you.
There'll be somebody to talk to you that you will enjoy.
Yeah.
Virtually the entire Slackware development team is showing up.
KDE gas.
KDE showing up.
Stormy actually declined this, I think.
I don't remember why.
But we almost had the executive director of the Venom Foundation.
We've got, we've got some impressive speakers.
And there are a lot of conferences with the, the links gaming industry.
The entire Linux gaming industry is showing up.
Yeah.
There's a lot of interesting things that we've had comments from several other conferences that essentially said,
How did you guys get such an awesome return on your call for paper?
We haven't heard that much about it.
And we're very happy I think with.
For a first year event bringing in the kind of names we're bringing.
We will have some free books as well.
A press is going to be offering.
There will be really easy giveaways.
Yeah.
Zenos is giving away a Dale Mini 12.
They're also giving away these little squishable zippers.
They'll have lots of those.
I'm sure everybody can get one of those squishable things.
Okay.
There has not really been a Linux,
you should say Linux,
a convention festival show.
Gosh.
And it stays probably a little late night.
The late 90s, yeah.
The last one with the one I went to was ale.
In 1999.
Yeah.
In fact, and then there was one in Raleigh,
which you know,
I think the biggest stuff.
They were like in 2000, 2001.
You know,
that was the last time around.
I mean,
of course you see it all a little bit of Boston and New York
and San Francisco and Las Vegas.
These are seven.
Sure like them.
If there's anything about English,
they're literally,
say, artistically gifted.
We have a need for creating large stencils
for covert operations with spray chalk.
If you have a penchant for graffiti,
we need you.
Essentially we're going to edit this from the podcast.
We're going to deliver the interstate
and the highway with chalk.
And the chalk is going to be a pink one
with the word self right underneath it
and a directional arrow.
So that you don't need your GPS.
You just look for the pink one.
And you follow the pink one.
And this is to be on what you say,
the interstate.
The interstate.
Yes.
The interstate.
Yes.
I'm just a fellow.
My head will raise the screen.
I'm sweating and realizing it.
I'm going to be thinking.
Alright, well,
the rightful arrow.
Yeah.
The follow the bloodshed.
Yes, really.
It's a long street.
It's the red streets that's blood.
Doesn't he grin at?
Yes.
Yes, we're distraining agnostic.
The, uh,
the bailable list today,
I sent out an notification
that we're having this today.
Wes had said that he would be
able to show.
I've never forgot.
That's okay.
I'll tell you.
I mean, I had all of a sudden
I had this weird little heckle here.
So if I look like this,
it's just an integral one.
So no, um, you know,
um,
don't want to research it.
Yes, I'm doing a little bit of research on you, too.
Nothing, nothing.
I'm scenerying me.
But I'm pulling out some really cool old
songs.
Blue songs.
It's really what I'm looking at.
And I'm pulling these down.
It's like, you know, this is great.
Wow.
This is fantastic.
You know, we got all this great stuff.
And, you know,
I'm learning,
and this is really cool.
And, gosh, I wish I had this in.
Some of the other four of that
than in P4,
because I really don't want to play it on my,
I really can't play it on my,
can be three players.
So I was looking at this research and now,
this doesn't necessarily apply to things in YouTube.
It's just a really good example.
And first of all, say,
don't download anything,
copyrighted material,
and don't write it and sell anything.
Because I don't.
Okay.
Now, if I had downloaded some good blue songs,
some songs that some guys have worked on,
you'll see what I'm talking about in a second.
But do be careful with that.
The more importantly,
if you ever wanted to take like a format,
like an P4,
any of the other video formats,
gosh, this is great.
Let the audio from it.
You can always go online and do that.
It just, sometimes it doesn't work.
It's a little bit out of tune.
And I was looking at that because I want to,
I want to play along with it and I'm out of tune.
So I know this has got to be a better way.
It's got to be a length way of doing it.
And so,
our research and most of what I saw was
using a couple of things,
one of them's FFM peg.
Anybody ever use that?
Yeah, FFM peg.
Yeah, well, I did.
Using FFM peg is more or less,
I can be converging.
It can also be in the live race to be used.
And we use it in a video surveillance solution
to where we would be able to take in frames
and using in-player libraries,
using the FFM peg libraries,
be able to take in sample frames
and then drop them into ADI format
or a DDI format,
whatever you want to do.
You can be able to bring them in
and drop them into this format.
So there's a great little conversion tool.
This is what we're going to show you.
So y'all, please, sorry for what?
The content,
if you're offended by apologies.
Nonetheless, it's the usage of the tools.
And there's only one on the show here.
Okay.
So to be real quick about that,
yes, you can go and you can put this little thing
in your little bar here,
so it's just the videos.
That said,
first is this guy right here.
And I'm kind of looking at a couple of things,
cigars and cigar box guitars and blues,
especially.
This guy has some really cool stuff on Delta Blizzis.
His song was phenomenal.
It was really just great.
Just dirt.
And you're there in the Delta.
You listen to crickets and chirping.
On a porch, you know.
And it's really cool.
So I said, gosh, let me grate.
Download that.
Learn from it.
Listen to it.
Perhaps lightning happens, right?
Perhaps a blind boy-fuller.
It was another one that I was downloading.
Okay.
So this is great.
So I'm going to do that.
I'm not going to go through,
because I already did the process.
I can go.
Pulls it down.
And again, I'm not going to explain all that.
And that's not really the important part.
But what is, and the cool thing,
is that once I've gotten down,
what am I going to do with them?
Well, they're video.
And like I said,
I don't really want to be able to put them
onto my MP3 player.
First of all,
they won't work.
Believe it or not,
it'll actually play a video,
but it has to be converted to Windows.
Media.
And so we'll do the MP4s.
But I do want to play the audio from it.
So in my little directory here,
if you've already got one,
right above,
next to it.
Push.
And he's correctly.
I've got one with stuff in it.
MP3.
And that happens to be
where I'm going to dump my MP3s out.
You also see
that I've got on there.
Cover.
Okay.
Can you ask me this?
Okay.
I'm going to make sure
that the game is a screen that doesn't work.
Big particles.
The game that doesn't work.
The game's a choice,
the game's a choice.
The screen's okay.
The game is a choice.
It's a choice.
It's a choice.
But it's very good.
Sometimes the,
if you only know,
the largest stuff we're probably going to have,
the two of them.
So,
so I have MP4s.
Convert MP4s.
Convert MP4s.
Okay.
I just like to call things done.
They're staged.
It's all on the way.
And if anyone has,
So James is on treatments on the shell, right?
This is very simple.
Does it involve Shakespeare or Bacon?
Yes, it does.
I couldn't.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't really get that.
I didn't tell it to, right?
I couldn't do arguments that way.
right?
I couldn't do arguments that way.
This case is just doable.
I can't do this.
This case is just doable.
This case is just doable.
I can't do this.
I can't do this.
I can't do this.
I can't do this.
I can't do it.
I can't do alerts.
I can't do an everyting.
This case is just doable.
This case is just doable.
This case is just doable.
This case is just doable.
Of course, I can also put in a removed.
Of course, I can also put in a removed.
Of course, I want to remove.
Of course, I can also put in a removed.
is naturally gone to remove.
says okay to this argument here you're going to take everything in front of that
and that's the base name of this file. That's the name before you add it on
whatever extension based on the argument. You got there. So for I and however many
dot NP4s you have, this is a loop, this is a for loop. Now you went through for loops,
right? For loops, right? Anyone that, anyone miss out on that? You missed out on a lot.
Anyone choice you want to explain? I'm not really yet, but nonetheless, we learned
from the best writing. So basically it goes to those and it takes anything
NP4 and it doesn't look like I'm converting it because you want to know what's
doing and you don't have to have all that. Now the next one, if that's okay, dash
A, B, A is for audio because you want to be able to pull the audio out and B is a bit
right. Now 192 and as of this website that goes into different bit rates, 256 is
really apparently the ultra high quality then you're really going to want to get
but they said 128 or 192 is very sufficient. It really wasn't the mention of
the difference between 128 and 256. So I settle the 192 and of course in the input
file is naturally going to be that first file or that first argument in that
loop. Okay. And then of course the output is whatever base the base name is
going to name it the same thing, right. I don't have type in the name all
all the time. We're having a clobber the other one. And of course it's going to
write this dot NP3 and done and of course it's going to say, oh yeah, everything's
good. So let's start that.
So what's going to do and hey, while it's clearing this out, I was actually
just converting it. You're going to see up the top. This is an epic version. I
wish you can say you quite don't want to hear all that. More importantly is to
say the input file. Okay. Of that song name or that video name. One thing that
caught me is the why I didn't want to begin with. And first of all, I had to take
the FFM tag and compilers. Anyone who's not compiled software is. Oh yeah. Now go
ahead and raise your hand because I'll tell you when you when you when you
first compile software is frustrating. It's absolutely frustrating. Gosh, when I'm
missing, I just can't understand this, right. But then you get a little bit used to
and you go, well, see, it says it stopped. There's another format of the audio. Well
it's it right there. The audio was AAC, right. Anybody know what AAC is? I don't. I'm
not an audio. Say again, okay, right there. See, that's a code. And so we know
that if by the way, if you've ever downed, if you ever wanted to download FFM
tag or play around with it was really great to do, I suppose. And there's better
ones I'm sure. To correct me if I'm wrong, it's under in player, right? That's
main code. And I mean, I mean, I'm in code. I mean, I'm in code. It's like they're
own sort of FFM and they think the only. There's a third one called Transco, but it's
mainly used for really high quality video production. Oh, really? That's me. It takes
like four times longer than FFM tag to do anything, but when I'm
transco, it's got a bit of TV. The quality is notably better with transco. Wow. It's
like having high depth versus very granular TV. No, nice. See, we should use
how you write in in code. That's right. Because we were using that too. We're
kind of a cross library thing. So FFM tag and you download that, it goes with
compiling planes and everyone says, you can get binaries if you want. I don't really
want that done, but it also did not have the codex support. And then also in this
case, you'll see what my configuration wants. Live FAC, live FAB. What's FAA? I never
could figure out what the heck that is. Some like some other libraries. Also, live
MP3 lane. Does anyone ever download it audacity? Yeah. So you know, you've got to download
the lane libraries too, right? Okay. So I guess that's the support for the
MP3, right? Because if you can't afford MP3, you have that. Well, it's going to use
those. Now, I tried also compiling audacity and playing bitterly, but whatever. And also
FFM tag complained about not having the MP3 with the lane libraries. Okay. But it
complied, nonetheless, we don't think. In this case, what we have here is to get back,
we have our audio AAC. And that's what it was hanging up on to begin with. That's what
you know what? Let me think. I ran this before. So I knew that I had to have those libraries.
I knew what FAAC was, right? And FAB. This had to use those before. So let me try those.
And I pulled them down and installed them, you know, compiled them and installed them
and left them on the new RPMs and are pissing the world. Hey, you know, they work. We've
had some great discussion, by the way, if everyone has not seen a great discussion on
non-package management, right? And everyone has their arguments, but they worked.
They were great for me. But I installed and now, and with a line of three lane,
it converted. And now that I have my D3. And there they are. Now, I get sound on the
thing, but I still don't have anything really worth the darn that will play these.
So I wish I could play them for you. Nonetheless, they converted. When I moved them over
to my thumb drive, my windows drive, they played beautifully. Not only that,
and what's really, what was really important to me is that, you know,
they're shooting out of these websites. Oh, it's good. I'm sure you two video to an
MP3, and I'll shoot you a little MP3. And everybody's happy, but it was off key.
It was like a half a note too high. Yeah, it really was. It was strange. I'm like,
it didn't sound right. I always have to go into audacity and drop the, they did
a picture. They probably did. Right. Yeah. They screwed it up. Yeah.
So, right. And so I'm trying to play along with it. I'm going, this didn't sound right.
So, anyway, this works out great. Okay. And again, like I said, really,
the point here is not, don't get on the YouTube and download a bunch of copyright control.
No. But if you ever have any MP4s or any other formats of video, and you want
to extract the audio, this is a great tool to do it with. Okay.
And that is your FFMP.
That question. Yeah.
Hello. Hello. Still spirit. The village of FLB version.
Really? Yeah. Okay. Okay.
That's the way I understand it is. The MP4 is embedded or wrapped inside the FLB.
Probably is. And FLB is your flash videos, right? Yeah.
So the flash video is just a wrapper of the MP4.
Does he have an MP in the memory?
You're inside of the FFMP.
Well, let's look for that. How about that?
This is what I did. Hey, everyone else, right?
Yes. In fact, you can, if you, if you notice, if you ever like a few top quality
or watching back a flash video, you see views like really nice, if you download the FLB
and you play back with the employer, it's like your system's almost completely idle.
Employers like just ignoring the flash box.
And there's, in both distro repositories, there's a curl script called YouTube-DFDL,
which does that. You feed it to URL and then chance out the FLB 40.
I see for Carlos.
So I guess using, and I'm going to say it like this, I think this would be,
I know we're trying, that's really good.
I have no idea what they are.
There's a video on it, I'm sure.
You can put file with the, you know, that, that shine with the input file.
Hey, or I know what the R is.
I don't know what natural they want to find out.
I just didn't know.
Man, FFMP.
Now, I did the compile.
DoofusMe didn't put the man pictures in the right spot.
So this is showing up.
I don't care about that.
But anyway, so FLBs.
Now, I have, I've done a little bit of flash scripting.
So, you know, pop in, and MP3 or pop in some kind of audio.
I do know that it gets embedded into the Swift files.
And I think it would probably be the same thing as FLBs.
Okay.
You mentioned earlier that you didn't have any really quality games after like 120,
a little bit.
The standard flash quality is like a year, 96, a little bit.
But if on YouTube, there's a high quality link.
And the video does have high quality.
That is encoded at a higher quality.
But the YouTube download script won't get it standard.
So what you have to do is get Firefox.
And get the video downloader extension for Firefox.
Play in high quality.
And then the video downloader will see the high quality FLB.
Then you can download it.
Then you can get out of your actual decent quality audio file.
See, that's really interesting.
I don't think of why.
Just for grins and giggles.
And I don't know what, what difference this makes.
Okay.
First of all, now, you know, down here, oh, I don't want to cut that off.
I don't really want to cut that off.
Okay, normally there should be the high quality button right there.
However, do you know how to get it high quality?
Do you know how high quality?
I love this.
Now, this is a high quality.
Before we had high quality.
Now, I love that.
FMP equals 18.
I love it.
Now, I know this is actually going to do anything with this one.
It all depends on how they upload it.
You know, if it's too old, they haven't gotten to it yet.
Chicken salad, right?
Okay.
So, let's see what this does.
Let me just tag it on.
Oh, it did that.
Take a look.
Yeah.
Take it right there to your URL.
FMP equals 18.
Okay.
Now, oh, you also notice what happened there.
Yeah.
I know.
I know.
I know.
I know.
You know, that's going to be good.
You know, you do your URL over on the right and down.
It didn't change.
I'm trying to cut.
That URL.
Is that right here?
No.
Yeah.
Damn.
Damn.
Damn.
That's right there.
That's right there.
Compare it to the non-hotpots.
See if that actually changed.
I don't know.
I don't know.
But I don't know.
That's on the, uh, just above the embed.
I don't know.
You are right.
I'll say I don't know.
You're changing.
Right about the embed, right?
I don't know.
Take out the FMP.
See if it changed.
I'm pretty sure it's slightly different.
Well, you can definitely tell a difference here.
I mean, you know, you see a little...
Well, I don't know if you can see it on the red dot.
I said, me.
It's a little fun.
It's a little fun.
It's a little fun.
It's a little fun.
It's a little fun.
It's a little fun.
It's a little fun.
It's a little fun.
It's a little fun.
It's a little fun.
It's a little fun.
It's a little fun.
Yeah, right there.
It's too fun.
It's too fun.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
We're just giving it aile bit back.
Again, this first time saw this.
I was like oh, it's regular video, bany,
It was like looking at Hat Definition TV.
It was like looking at high-definition P.E.
See, a little bit better definition.
So, if y'all ever want to, you know,
it doesn't have the HQ button.
What do I want to do?
So, what you're saying is, if it comes down in high quality,
the sound may be better.
It wits encoded at a higher quality.
If you get the high quality version of the YouTube,
it's encoded at 128 kilobyte.
Theoretically, this would be, we would hope.
Therefore, if I were to do...
Well, within the YouTube data centers,
they have everything you upload.
They don't just get rid of it after they transcode it to an FIB.
They keep it to when they upgrade quality.
They run through everybody again,
dump the new FIBs.
And some of them, you go to it's already high quality.
Some of them, you have to actually...
You have a button, some of them, you don't,
but you have to know the little code thing in it.
And simply, right there, the little piece of office scripting
which is, hey, say the follow.
That's all it does.
That's what I mean, yeah.
But I've been doing that.
I've been doing the high quality, pulling it down,
saving it, and then listening to it.
But this guy, like I said,
this guy was incredible.
And you see this little home video.
That sounds great.
I love it.
I can turn it off.
I can turn it off.
I can turn it off.
I can turn it off.
I can't really hear that well.
I can't hear it at all.
That was awesome.
So anyway, point being is,
like that, you want to convert your videos,
you want to convert your MP4s,
or whatever other formats.
If that's in bag, or other tools.
Right?
Does it?
He's a great...
Well, audacity, do this directly.
Not to my knowledge.
In fact, have tried up enough MP4s?
Not.
There's a program called WinFF.
It is more like a graphical front-end for most of these converges.
If MPF will do, you can choose input output formats
from a drop-down list.
I mean, it's...
What is that called?
WinFF.
Well, I'm sure it would be like, like, if MPF,
and there's also an FFM-packed player,
if I'm not mistaken.
There's like something, guys.
We had a...
And it came out as a FFM tape,
but it was for Windows.
And it really was to be able to play the video surveillance
over on this video surveillance package.
That's another little Linux thing I was doing.
That we wouldn't pull that down to be able to play the video files,
the APIs that it would create,
so that you can go back and review them,
but it was a simple player, so.
And it was kind of...
That would be a question.
Yeah.
Just trying to get something on to you, too.
Is it not like MPG files are here?
I wish I could.
The funny thing about it is I've got a good YouTube to do this kind of research.
I don't know if I'll pull it.
You think?
You have a multiple formats to you, too.
I'm sure you're good.
I mean, you know.
That was great.
I'm not a...
You know, YouTube is one of those nice,
double-edged swords.
It's really fun to look at stuff.
But you get quite addicted to it,
it's like Facebook or my space,
but then you also see something really nasty.
Something else you're able to look into.
I've only seen one video like this,
but YouTube does have HDL supports,
so CD of some of yours has HD quality,
because that will be any higher audience.
What?
Well, YouTube is regular.
There's high quality.
There's also HD.
If there's anything that was uploaded to it,
then high quality.
But I've only seen one video ever
on YouTube that's been HD capable.
There was one on here that I saw.
As you see, I got a lot of...
Why do I have a lot of guitar stuff?
I don't know.
It's not a lot, too.
There was one on here, I think I believe it.
And it was one of the first ones I saw in my depth.
It was actually a clip from Ferris Bueller's Day Off.
It was a short clip when they were in the museum.
It was on a label.
It was like looking at how definition TV only this big.
But it was absolutely super fun.
You have a CS3.
You can do that.
You can do that.
You can do that.
You can do it well.
Yeah.
Really?
Hey, look at it.
More magic.
What does that mean?
Yeah.
When you're a YouTube search for Sydney Fireworks 2009
and that's the HD version,
don't bother to play back.
You don't have a serious process
or a graphics card though.
It'll not miss the thing right now on.
Probably.
Well, there you go.
I'm done.
Thank you.
And now we have Rick.
He has some short points.
Yeah.
Is that right?
Yeah, sure.
What do you mean by Android?
Just like there's a presentation.
What else do you mean?
I mean, just the Malibus Vibola.
Nope.
It's a really cool picture.
So Android.
Android.
Android.
This is like data.
Enterprise, right?
No.
No.
No.
It is.
Yeah.
You guys.
Oh, yeah.
Should be open.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Should be open.
Yeah.
Oh, yes.
Be our office.
In that weird way.
It's like apparently there's a branded version,
non-branded version of open office,
for a window like an ice freezer.
Kind of thing.
Yes.
I don't know.
Sit down.
Okay.
Well, I have to apologize.
I have to apologize.
I haven't done any labs and presentations in what about
three or four years.
At least.
But usually pretty incomplete and pretty unprepared.
And I failed again.
I put a bunch of prepare.
But anyway, the shows that I did at least start the effort.
And, anyway, I've always looked for things that are running
on limits.
Everybody's, you know, we use our desktops and our laptops.
And one of the areas that I think is pretty strong,
in spite of the economy, is mobile devices.
And if you've looked into developing applications on mobile devices,
you'll find a lot of it.
It's proprietary.
A lot of the development tools only run on windows.
And when I heard about Android, which is.
That started by Google.
And there's a consortium group of people companies that got together.
About 30 of them.
And they formed this alliance to develop this open source
of mobile platform.
The thing that's the interest to letting people is that it runs
on a Linux kernel.
Right now, I think there's only one, the G1 mobile device
that it's actually being sold.
But what they're doing is they're getting development tools going
and doing a lot to make it available to developers.
One thing with the applications, if you know,
it's like iPhone, they're kind of restricted
about what applications they're all allowing to sell.
And what, you know, they've banned some and there's been stories
about, you know, baby bashing acts that they wouldn't let go
after the public and things like that.
But not that they're going to have baby bashing Android applications.
But it's not as restricted.
You know, they're more open and it's the kind of thing
where if you want to get into it running the development tools,
they really do run on Linux.
I have it set up at home and I probably should have just brought
my desktop in and show you the calculator and all that good stuff
and how to set it up on NetBeans runs IDE for Eclipse
has a plugin for it.
So, and of course they run on Linux.
Funny thing with things like NetBeans running on a Linux machine
is that when you download the mobile development tools,
go to run it, it says, oh, you need a .exe file
in order to actually develop and have an emulator that works.
So, a nice thing here is that you've got the emulator
that does run on Linux.
The device itself uses Linux as the kernel.
And that was open source, software platform,
multiple devices.
And it's open handset alliances, the group that's behind it
with Google.
And it runs on Linux ARM, a little bit more about that
a little bit later on.
And there's two ways that you can write applications for Android.
One is that you can write them in Java.
That's what most of the applications that come with it are written in.
But you can also write like the core applications in C.
And it uses the GCC for the compiler.
Now, since you've got a lot of applications
like Linux OS and software,
they have two licenses for it.
One is primarily for the GTO or the Linux operating system.
And the second one is the Apache software license
for the platform itself, minus Linux.
So, it's kind of a unique licensing situation for that.
Now, one thing that I think is kind of neat
is that they've gone out.
And they're using some pretty good solid technology
things that are used on other places like the WebKit browser
that's used on Mac for Safari and Icon.
So, you'll have a lot of support in that area.
The database that they support is SQL Lite.
I don't know if anybody's heard of it.
But it's also the default database for Ruby on Rails.
You're familiar with that.
Everybody should have removed the ad presentation.
Okay, good.
And it's been presented here.
So, and then the graphic support.
It's good.
Oh, you have support.
And then, of course, we have SSL from Apache.
Now, this is a little bit more about the city application
development.
It's using the SorceryG plus-plus Lite addition for all of them.
And the ARM platform is a 32-bit risk processor.
And everybody knows that RISC is not the SAMS4
structure set.
Thank you.
There you go.
So, GCC compiler.
These are issues I'm wondering is ARM none?
It's the new data GCC.
And the linker.
And read that.
It's on it.
And now here is your hello world application in C for Android.
And then the file.
Unfortunately, I can't.
I'm going to put it in.
Now, the kicker, because of the static compile and linking,
it's 568,000 during 31 bytes just for that hello.
So, wow.
Yeah.
So, not too good for mobile devices.
So, anyway.
See now that you should have to have it set.
Yeah.
That was just something I was reading about that.
So, anyway, for the most part,
the application development is going to be in Java.
And why do they do that?
Well, Java is, well, that's actually on the next stage.
The virtual machine that they use is the Dalvik virtual machine.
And employee services on the Linux kernel provide a rich environment for Android applications.
And, of course, the primary language since it is a JDM is Java.
Android itself is not operating, so it has to have Linux.
It's a Linux kernel.
Right.
It's a platform that sits on top of Linux and Linux provides various services
that it needs.
Yeah, Android is more like a framework that sits on top,
and then, of course, they're using it.
So, anyway, so forth.
That's it.
Let me go back for a second.
Yeah, let's not send it in.
I'm going to go back for a second.
So, the question?
No, I just started.
I'm sending it.
Do you pass this back?
No.
I'm...
A paycheck will be to the previous slide.
How is it coming in?
I don't know.
Let's just...
That's every person that's a JDM that has invented a sort of kernel.
Well, it's like any virtual machine.
The idea is that you have a common development environment,
a job, a job of language,
and then the virtual machine itself takes care of the operating system
that it sits on so that you don't have the portability issues
with trying to develop C applications on multiple platforms
and there was problems with the size of the signatures.
I mean, normally if you have JDM,
so you can use your specs or something.
Did I understand that this Dalvik VM
is more closely tied into the kernel?
It's really not...
You know, general concept,
it's not much different than any VM that runs on
any operating system.
But it's, again, it's the idea right once,
run anywhere, kind of, you know.
Okay.
It's good for Linux developers
because of all the tools that are available that do run on Linux
and there is support for eclips and netbees
or I couldn't get the netbees to install.
I kept finding out on these.
So I think I just had a memory problem.
I was encouraged to move from the virtual layer
and then you could write this for Android
and run any other platform.
Well, now, well, for another platform idea,
let's say, you've got the mobile device,
Linux running on a mobile device.
What they're working on right now,
net books being so hot,
that Google is coming out with Android running on a netbook.
So what you're going to have there
is you'll have virtual machine
for the Java applications.
There's a certain structure that an Android application
goes through.
There are certain events that take place
in the lifecycle with an application
and it pretty much is controlled by Android.
You don't have control in your program.
So you can't say when it starts,
when it stops, when it pauses.
Those are things that, you know, a person using the device,
they can start an application
and that is an event that you do certain things,
initialization, stuff like that.
Well, they can also switch to another application
that's going to pause your application.
Then there's also the limited memory
in a mobile device.
So the platform is going to control
whether or not your application gets killed
because it resources
or if it keeps it in the background.
And you don't know,
it's from a programmer standpoint,
where these things are going to happen.
So there are different events
that are available within the API.
And there are certain things that you should do
at different points, like if it pauses,
you should, if you want to save the state
of where your application is,
that's the time to do it.
Because you don't know if it's going to get to
the killed event,
where you might want to do that,
because it might just decide
that it's going to kill your application
and it never goes back into your application.
If you pause, you pause.
Well, it's your pause,
but you see,
you can have killed within your program,
like you can say,
okay, somebody can help you.
The program had to have a button
that shut turned the program on.
But the platform can decide
to kill it and never goes back into your program.
So it's structured in a kind of a different way.
So you wouldn't really have
just your regular,
difficult job application
that would run on Android.
It has to follow a certain structure.
But I'm sure
when they get to the netbook,
which isn't, you know,
it's obviously not the same as a mobile environment.
There'll be differences in the API.
And I think that's part of what they're working on
just to get to that point.
That's a couple months out, isn't it?
Yeah, it's an ARM processor.
Well, there is one that's out right now,
and I read a little right up on it.
They said it's very limited.
Battery life is horrible.
It's a fairly weak machine.
But it was the prototype.
It was a start.
Now, another thing that I found out
that I think is kind of neat
with Java being primarily the only language
that Android or that Google has available for it.
I found out that there's also a company
that's put together a Ruby framework
to run on Android, BlackBerry, iPhone,
with Cimian to another platform.
Anyway, it does.
There are new frameworks coming out,
so I wouldn't be surprised if you find a Python framework
that comes out at some point
that it becomes a pretty popular.
The bottom is, is this J.M. Limitinian
that it won't run, J.Ruby, J.Fon, Scala.
The J.Ruby guys are playing around with it.
Okay, so it's not...
It's not important.
It's...
They said that they're...
You know, they've looked at the...
at the platform and the API,
and they said that they think they can...
they've had some people working on...
I'm doing that, so.
One of the things that I got to kick out of with this...
Romobile is that the applications are written...
in HTML and Ruby.
HTML for the interface.
So it takes your HTML page and generates the screens for you.
I mean, it's kind of bizarre.
I haven't played with it yet,
and I kind of want to just get in there and pull around with it.
Well, the next step was being able to look at the Angular
and then I apologize that I...
I have some problems getting that...
getting that going.
But maybe another, you know,
have it all working.
Maybe have some real applications to show you.
Regarding battery life, that should be improved...
T-Mobile version 1.5.
Yeah.
If T-1 soon, it's supposed to be a 25 to 33% gain battery life.
If you have an unlock for a death, so you can already get it.
It's already pushing out to customers.
People in Texas were reporting it as a last time.
Well, this definitely don't have it yet.
Yeah, my watch doesn't either.
I sat there looking at it last time.
Come on!
Any other questions?
Currently Google is pitching Android for OLPC.
And I don't know where that stands if that's going to happen or not.
It's an interesting application.
I've also seen an article in the Times where this distortion is pushing
it not only for netbooks, but voice phones and karaoke machines.
And that probably wouldn't be possible if it wasn't for Linux.
It's probably just better.
The only thing I have to do is tweak their B-M.
That's right.
Well, thank you.
Great.
Why would someone run Android?
Why would you run Android?
It's just putting the job work machine to find a job.
Well, and I probably should have covered some of that.
I think part of the advantage is that there's different things that are available
just on the basic Android platform, the applications and the different services.
What you can do with Android that you, that's probably harder to do.
What other, just plain Java, is that it has some really nice tie-ins
with their Google mapping kind of stuff.
GPS is available, and there's a lot to tie all that together.
So it's a lot easier to pull that into your application.
You do.
Is Android providing the screen services?
In other words, it's not running.
It's probably something along the lines of a swing kind of.
Yeah, but I mean, I guess it's not running.
It's, you don't have, next one goes for say,
which is fairly heavy, right, from mobile device.
But they're providing around display drivers.
And that's part of what would come in with the virtual machine.
If you run a Java virtual machine on Linux,
it's going to expect high-vex ones there to provide the display,
which for mobile devices, you know, I think.
When it sounds like if you can write stuff in HTML that shows up on the screen,
then WebKit must be in some ways related to being the X11 replacement or something.
That's my stuff to this one.
Just to get rid of this, I'll work it for the browser type of app.
And there's a, if you get in, just grab one of those articles on it
or I don't know how to put some of the documentation,
just the different things that they're trying to make available on it.
I think I read some sort of two,
the kind of walls down to this ARM processor,
and even farther down to eventually this system on a chip.
And, you know, these ARM processors,
for that most of the price point is going to be like $150.
Yeah, that's the other thing right now, 50 bucks.
And if they're really, really loyal to the power of the ARM,
yeah.
There's some impressive ARM stuff out there.
There was a vendor at scale that had to be close to us.
And they had, they had essentially single board,
just a few chips on the board, ARM boxes that were capable of doing 27,
28 frames a second.
And that's pretty impressive out of something that doesn't have a heat sink,
doesn't have a dedicated video chip.
So, what is ARM today for?
I have to leave this and that was advanced with risk microprocessor.
Yeah.
Yeah, you really tried to hear it.
That's more recent than RIS, right?
Is that what it is?
Is that what it is?
Is that what it is?
Is that what it is?
Okay.
So, first you got to do what you did in Boston.
No, scared me.
What did I do?
Oh.
I didn't know it was wrong.
Which is from your laptop for it.
I didn't get the reaction there.
You've been getting on it behind me.
This is Carpenter's best stuff now.
My display is messed up.
You know, I've thrown this thing like 70 times.
I've thrown it on concrete.
And I have never had my anything this old guy had it all.
Oh, far bit.
Oh, far bit.
Actually, he is inside his violence.
He is super innocent.
I have no idea.
So, one of the things that has happened.
OPC ran, give one, get one again this year.
And it was not successful.
They're kind of a victim of their own success.
They weren't two years ago or two Christmases ago.
There were not a lot of netbooks pervading the market.
Unless you considered the very expensive to sheave a libretto and things like that.
What they essentially did, they were playing on selling a lot.
And they did not.
More than an order of magnitude difference in what they expected and what they actually sold.
And as a result, they laid off a lot of their engineering staff.
And one of the things they've done ahead of time was to essentially split the software
and the hardware divisions.
And so, the software sugar labs, which runs on top of Fedora, which is swam involved in it.
So, if Fedora has taken over the North American developer thing,
we've taken over to the program whereby you can get an XO.
Maybe not.
I won't do that in a minute.
It'd let me see this.
So, essentially, what we're looking for is people who, A, know Python,
are willing to learn Python and, by August, turn out, a fourth grade math activity.
So, essentially, we're taking the state of Massachusetts, fourth grade math curriculum.
And we are writing small software applications that teach that curriculum.
So, we've got one application that, for instance, is a role-playing game.
And you come up and you find these monsters, except to win against the monsters,
you have to demonstrate some knowledge of basic math.
I mean, we're not even talking algebra at this point.
And you advance in the game by continuing to answer questions.
There's a number of others.
We've got five students at Clemson.
The Rochester Institute of Technology has a 25-student class that, in game design,
is doing nothing but working on activities.
We've got a group in Utah activities.
Well, it shoulder applications refer to as activities instead of programs or applications,
because it's about doing something, not about how it works.
So, if you're interested in that, I received a pallet of these.
So, generally, I throw them on the floor to show how robust they are.
I just failed this time.
Yeah, we'll work on it.
Anyway, if you're interested in that, and either want to learn Python,
or already know Python, what is generally very relevant?
And it's really taken a lot of abuse from me.
Machine for free, and get involved in some open-source software development.
If you're interested, let me know.
We've got, it's got to be a math math.
Yes, it is a fourth grade math.
That is the curriculum we're targeting right now.
I don't know what the tons of documents and whatever.
There's a guideline.
There's not a whole lot of guidelines as long as you're willing to just jump in and do it and get it done.
No, because, essentially, there's no textbooks, fourth grade math textbooks,
that are freely redistributable, which is one of the problems that we're coming up with.
We've got, South Carolina has 50,000 of these going to some of the challenge schools,
most of them on the corridor of shame.
But they can't distribute content with them, even if the state paid for them,
because the exos make sharing so easy.
As a matter of fact, if I had a look open, and I wanted to show you what page I was on,
there's two buttons to click, and you get to see what I'm seeing.
And I'm essentially sharing the entire document.
So since there's no open content, we're essentially writing some of that content,
although not necessarily all textbook.
You can't even think of what sentiment.
You can, but Tux Math doesn't map very well to a specific curriculum.
And so we went and grabbed a curriculum that was freely redistributable.
And we're building small applications to teach each of those objectives, essentially.
You know, California is going to know those first, all their textbooks.
And they're in a process of property that, yeah.
And that will be a huge win, because right now your options are essentially wiki books,
or something that's really, really old, which doesn't work for a lot of subjects now.
They will be their own publishing company.
Well, publishing companies, I mean, if they print your book, they hold,
or you're leasing them the copyright.
But publishing companies, I hear my content, I want you to print a book.
It's just going to cost you a lot, because they're not going to make,
you know, they don't make as much money off of it.
So if the state of California develops the text, they can go to any publishing company
and say, you're going to want credit, and you're going to want a passport.
It's the rest of the e-mails that you need for.
It could be.
Yeah.
Is it freeing the comments a lot since?
I mean, I just sent more to them.
The public domain.
Public domain?
Yeah.
Because most of the states can't publish copyright material first place.
That's one of the reasons we went with the state of Boston.
It's all public domain because...
Massachusetts.
Yeah.
There is no state of Boston.
That may be the only thing in Massachusetts, but...
I've been to the country of Asia.
I've been to the land of them.
Well, we don't really tend to go to Indigo, Joseph.
You're all welcome to come.
It's all from...
He's using his credit card.
Are you going to swim different?
Yeah.
Does anyone else want to go swim different?
Sure.
Who's going to go first?
I'm just armed.
Nobody can lead to the register for the Southeast Linux.
I'm going to leave over to the beach.
Thank y'all.
Thank you for everything.
What?
This is good to see y'all.
I think you've got some power digital.
I don't know that thing.
Please.
Thank you for listening to Half the Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net.
She'll head on over to C-A-R-O dot N-E-C for all of her TV.
Thank y'all.
Thank y'all.
