Episode: 506
Title: HPR0506: TiT Radio 016 - HPR Potluck Roundtable
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0506/hpr0506.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 22:02:12

---

.
How do you tell when we start anyway?
Because we say hi.
Oh, hi.
Well, we got that out of the way. Let's go.
All right.
Welcome to Tit Radio Episode 16.
I'm Monster B.
And at the table tonight is Asmet.
A good evening, Monster B, and the round table.
J-Man.
Hello.
Klaatu.
Hi, everyone.
And 330.
Hello.
Our Fedora ambassador.
That's the rumor on the street, is that true?
It is absolutely true.
And what is it?
Fedora.
Did you used to hate Fedora?
I did.
I was a big kind Fedora hater, but it has changed my ways.
What changed your ways?
It seemed like, okay, we went to, well, how unexpressed.
And then just a couple hours later, you were like totally into Fedora.
What happened?
Well, I was already pretty upset with some of the other major
districts.
They're kind of lack of daisicle view of software freedom.
And I was in that talk where Tom Calaway was talking about licensing from a hacker's point of
view.
And he was talking about the way that Fedora tracks licenses.
And they have an entire mailing list devoted to, hey, does this work in Fedora?
And people were explaining, no, you can't incorporate that because of this, this,
and this parts of these licenses.
Wow.
And I was like, you know, somebody's got a database of licenses.
I mean, they're, you know, they're pretty serious because, you know, it's kind of a pain to build.
And they were tracking 20-some variants of the BFD license itself.
Or, no, it's the MIT license.
I'm sorry.
So I didn't even know there were 20 variants of it.
So I figured it was probably the place to go.
Why is it enough Fedora on that list, you know, for the free GNU Linux distributions,
like they have on the, you know, the GNU.org site?
I think it's because Fedora Project doesn't call itself Fedora GNU Flash Linux.
No, I thought it was because of their kernel.
Like, isn't, don't you have to have like the weird sort of like stripped kernel in order to qualify for that?
Where there's no binary blogs in the kernel or microcode or something?
Is that what I was hearing at one point?
It may have been true at one point.
I'm not exactly sure.
Because I know GNU synths, they have the Debian Linux style of, hey, if you point us to the non-free stuff, we'll pull it out.
But otherwise, yes, they pull it out when they find it.
Okay.
And for everything that I know, it seems that Fedora is actually seeking it out both for quite actively.
Release.
Yeah, no, that means they were going through, I think it was before Fedora 10, possibly 11.
They'd gone through like a lot of their code.
I forget if they were like, I don't know.
It was, what's the term?
Like a review or like an inventory or like an audit.
They did a code audit.
I thought they had gotten really quite a few things, actually.
But I don't know.
Well, Fedora half mono in there, GNU, are there no messed up?
For 11, they didn't.
They didn't for 12 either, did they?
I don't know, I'm running 12.
As far as I know, they've not gone to mono.
I mean, I don't really run the GNU version, so I wouldn't swear to it.
But no, actually, you know what?
No, it's on their blacklist.
They're like, will not be allowed in Fedora.
No, it is not.
And Fedora seems to be pretty serious about making sure that everything is distributable.
Because you know how the Ubuntu's and Debian's and all this.
They have the third party repositories that you can just go in and enable.
For Fedora, you have to actually go out and seek these repositories.
Like they won't even link to them in the distribution.
So they have like a total hands-off approach to it.
They're like, you can do it if you want.
You know, they're not going to stop anyone from having free will for these people.
But they will just kind of wash their hands of it and go on.
Yeah, that's one of GNU's issues with distributions.
If you make it easy for someone to access that stuff, even if it's not enabled by default, they have problems with that.
I kind of like the way Fedora does it.
I mean, then again, a lot of people love the way Ubuntu does it.
Because I mean, it is just so easy.
And there's a place, I guess, for both.
Yeah.
Well, Fedora, it's just...
If you go to the RPM fuse and size, you can copy one string and paste it into a terminal and power it there.
Yeah, but you say that, and I say that.
But not everyone says that.
Yeah, I've heard, I think it was someone I was listening to the other day on a podcast.
They're like, I still can't figure out how to get DVDs to play in Fedora.
And then I'm like, you install live DVDs?
Yes, that's...
I mean, it's not that hard.
And this is the podcaster who I figured, you know, would kind of...
I knew what they were doing.
Yeah, but...
Say, and that's the thing with the DVD thing, is that's even in another repository,
because RPM fusion wouldn't even touch that.
Yeah, yeah, that's right.
So everything else is questionable.
We can argue whether it's legal or not.
Like, we can't even argue that one.
Yeah, I remember that, actually, you're right.
If you enable that repository, live DVDs, CSS is the only thing that's in it.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah, that's right.
But isn't that an argument against the other distribution, too?
I mean, if you grew up...
I mean, if you cut your Linux piece on one of these distributions where it says,
okay, so now we're going to sit here and install all these extra packages for you
that we couldn't think of these distributes.
But, you know, we got this little shell script or whatever,
sets it's birthed, you know, run on the first boot,
and we're going to install this DVD, CSS, blah, blah, blah,
MP3 support, you know, proprietary video drivers.
I mean, where is the user?
I mean, like, what is the user learned from that?
Like, nothing.
You know, so then you go on to a fedora system,
or a flapper system, or archer, or whatever,
and it doesn't do all that stuff for you automatically,
and you're an idiot.
You know, you're like, oh, I don't know how to get DVD support.
Yeah, you don't even know where to begin, you know,
because you never had to think about that before.
So, actually, that happened to me.
I couldn't even figure out how to get DVDs to play.
Yeah, I think it probably happened to everyone who,
I mean, it happened to me, you know,
you have to figure it out at some point in your life.
But once you do, you're like, cool, like, got it,
and now I know more about Linux, and how to do things.
You know, you just learn whatever you learn from it.
But if you don't ever have that adherence,
then you just never learn that little trick.
I guess some people don't want to ever learn certain tricks.
But I don't know.
I think it's a good thing to have down in your repertoire.
Yeah.
And the sad thing is, is that DVD CSS is actually
completely free software.
Yeah, it's just like lame.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it's free software, but it's not legal.
Right. Well, yeah.
I guess some people say it's not legal.
Well, it violates the anti-circumvention part of the DMCA.
Yeah, okay.
I guess I mean, I don't really believe in the whole illegal, illegal thing,
but I do.
Yeah.
Oh, these are the violins.
I leave all of it.
But...
Well, there's one to do, or a reloaded episode
that I'm not going to be able to record now.
We'll just cut that out.
Well, let's skip the feedback for a second,
and go on to Asmeth's story or topic,
because he might have to take off early.
Okay.
Well, mine's kind of a rerun.
Well, I gave a simple server setup, you know,
using alias and everything or a couple episodes ago.
And I found myself using it so much that I decided,
well, I'll just put that in permanent, you know, into the...
Because it's a complicated enough for an old man to remember
everything you got to put in.
And I'd have to go look up a file and paste it.
And, you know, that's a pain.
But in the process of finding that,
yeah, I could put it in Bash RC,
or if your Bash RC happens to check for...
does a check for a file, which is a Bash-Dash aliases,
you can put it in there.
But in my research board,
I find that just about everybody recommends changing alias
is like that.
They say it's just better to do a script, you know, a Bash script.
So I turned around and started reworking it.
And so I did do the Bash script.
I've got it, well, I don't have it in the show notes,
but let's see.
I've got it in a paste bin right there.
I'll put it in the IRC.
It's a simple, one-line Bash script.
And of course, you know, well, then most of my Bash scripts
are set around to my home directory.
You know, they're kind of cluttered up all the corners
and everything.
But this is one that I just can't run from the home directory
because I've got to run this stupid thing from wherever I'm going to...
whatever folder I want to share.
So I ended up, you know, making the Bash script
and putting it in a USR local S bin,
which is in my path.
So it would always go look for it.
And all you got to do is you throw it in there
and make it executable.
And you've got to command from whatever directory you're in.
You just tell a web sharing
then you can help use Peter64's bandwidth.
That was my fault, by the way.
Oh, really?
Yeah, you tell Peter64.
You've got good stuff that he likes.
And boy, he'll burn up everything between here and Australia to get it.
What kind of stuff does Peter64 like exactly?
Let me talk about it here.
Oh, there's some.
Well, yeah, a lot of woodworking shows
and stuff that he can't get.
Ladies right around, lawnmowers and golf courses.
Well, I may be responsible for the sprinklers for all I know.
No, well, that's just what I wanted to go to.
You know, I've all the recommendations that I was getting in my research
that not make a permanent alley.
As even though there are ways of doing it and they're fairly simple.
But that it is better to just make a bash command.
And then it's there.
And it's simple.
You put it, you know, you can just throw the thing on any machine you have.
And that simple server works really nice on the land
because you don't have to set up FTP server.
You don't need FTP server.
You know, anything from any machine,
you just put the stoop at that end there.
And then you can make that directory available to everybody just on the land,
all the computers, or if you open up a port,
you're firewall, you can get available to your friends on the internet.
And it's just, well, you know, I run it on its own little terminal window.
And you get feedback going on in it as well as when you're through with it
and don't want to serve it anymore.
You just hit Control-C and it's all over with.
And your system set back got it locked up right now.
You're not feeding the internet that you maybe don't want to.
That's pretty cool.
Make it even easier.
It was a brief visit.
Well, I hope all that turned out because I had a hard time hearing you ask.
I don't know if it was my connection.
It was his, I heard it as well.
But it was my band.
Yeah, mostly just towards the end.
Well, let's go over all again.
The script being the show notes.
If anybody wants it, they're welcome to it.
The original how to and for this thing came from from FOSSCAST.
He mentioned it on one of his screencasts.
You know, how to use his Python command and it's just made a bad script out of it.
Very nice.
Anything else before we move on to the feedback?
No, that's it.
Okay.
So we got some feedback.
I caught you.
Yes, we got about two feedbacks.
But one of which I'm feeling for my code of the week.
So our command of the week.
But one was from a listener who says that he says,
I think you guys did get something wrong when you said that before,
the Ubuntu forms came along.
Most of the answers people got from Linux Geeks were RTFM.
I thought I should correct you on that little misconception.
In the late 90s, I was a member of the Sioux users mailing list pre-Novel.
And I can assure you that I have yet to see any source on the internet
that can compare with that group.
The list generated 300 to 400 emails per 24 hours,
but posted fix and fetch mail to ultimate power tools.
And there was never a day I didn't learn something new.
I can't remember a single instance when someone got a brush off.
There was an equal mix of nubes and power users on the list,
and they all got along really well.
The quality of answers was much higher than most of the answers on the forums today.
Well, that's my two cents worth.
And then he says,
Peter, did you ever think about getting a GPS for the mower?
What which he has?
Who sent that in?
That's from Rod.
I thought it sounded a little bit suspicious that Ubuntu forms came along
and made Linux more, you know, completely different and friendly.
I can't imagine people would have gotten into it much at all
if there was never any help out there.
Yeah, I think the whole RTFM thing was overexaggerated there.
Yeah.
I didn't support for at least two years straight in Slackware on FreeNode.
And it takes the type of person that comes to the IRC and asks the question
without doing any kind of research to get that kind of reply usually.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, in my limited experience,
RTFM has often been used more like,
look, learn enough to be able to ask an intelligent question
and then come back, you know,
which is fair because if you don't even know what you're asking,
then you're probably asking a question too far ahead of yourself, you know.
You need to back up and kind of like do a little bit of research.
And I like to think that I did that before I went into some place to ask questions.
Yeah, it's a lot easier just to do your own search real quick
and not look like a fool.
Yeah.
I mean, even before the magical days of Google,
I mean just a little bit of research,
you could get far along on some technical issue
before you go into some place and start asking questions.
Yeah.
And as I can't say the name,
J-Squall, J-Squall in IRC is saying,
you know, a lot of times it's just a question of doing a dash dash help or something.
You know, we're just man, food bar,
and just kind of just doing that much research,
and not even going on to the internet,
actually read the manual.
Is that all the feedback?
Yeah, so the feedback.
Like I said, we did get one more,
but I'm going to just swipe that for myself when we go to the code of the command of the week.
There's two from six left, all right?
Or just the one?
Well, you know what they're...
Oh, yeah, there were two left there.
Yes.
No?
Hold on.
I don't have it in Fermi,
but I'm pretty sure Six Flops said that referring to me
because I said it took 20 hours to compile a full work and desktop.
Right, yeah.
That's right, yeah.
And yeah, you can use binaries instead of doing it from...
Piling like KDE.
Right, and I think that's what PCBSD does.
Yeah, you know.
That's how I got it.
Up and running so quickly, I think.
I just use the binary.
It's good to have choices.
You can never have too many choices.
You really can't.
It's right of what some people say.
But the source code...
Did you do that because you wanted like the most recent version of KDE?
Or did you do it simply because you wanted to compile from source or what?
And like is there...
I mean, obviously there's an advantage to doing it,
but was there some advantage that you just couldn't sacrifice
to go to the binary?
Well, the only reason I did because it was a newer version in the port system.
Okay. Yeah.
But after a while, I think that the binaries will catch up to the port system.
Yeah.
But with PCBSD working on theirs,
they're going to have the latest one in binary.
So as soon as they release PCBSD number eight,
it'll probably be up to date.
Yeah, I'm sure.
Yeah, they put a lot of work into their little KBI's or whatever they are there.
It's pretty cool. It's pretty nice.
And while we're on the topic of free BSD,
one of the news site that I check all the time is freeBSDNews.net
and they reported that BSD Magazine is going completely free now.
They're going to be an online magazine only.
Oh, okay.
So they're no longer going to have the print version.
That's too bad. I mean, in a way.
Yeah.
It's good, but it's also, I don't know.
I was having the magazine is kind of nice.
It is nice having the magazine,
but I still think that tech magazines are dead.
I mean, if you ever eat anything, what's that?
Like magazines are dead.
It's just too long to print.
And they're so outdated by the time you get them.
I mean, everything's so old and outdated.
Yeah, I don't really find that to be a problem, though.
I still learned quite a bit from tech magazines.
I mean, and I get it.
I have it pretty bad because I like to get limited format
and they're a month behind in the States.
We get the issue a month after they come out in the UK for some reason.
I mean, I don't subscribe.
I ride off the news stand.
But even so, I mean, I learned quite a bit just because a lot of what they're talking about
is either still applicable or the concepts are still applicable.
But I imagine BSD magazine.
I mean, that's probably a pretty niche market,
so it probably makes a lot of sense for this to go online only.
I'll just get it on the PDF now.
Yeah, I mean, I also throw it on my Nokia and I'll still have it,
so I guess it's not so terrible.
But I don't know, I like getting the magazine with the disc.
That's just like a little thing I have.
I just like going to the news stand and buying the magazine
and getting the DVD with whatever, you know, whether it's just the OS
or a whole bunch of extra those or whatever,
and just checking it out.
Looks like their site isn't even up yet, huh?
ESDmagazine.com is that what it's going to be?
It should be BSDmag.org.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, not only thing you have to do is just sign up for their newsletter
and they email you a link.
Of course.
So you can download the PDFs.
Okay, I didn't know that this was by the same company who does,
yeah, it is Hack and Nine and Linux Plus.
Yeah.
Because I know Linux Plus is now going, I think, lit.
They're doing part print and part online.
Like every other month they're going to be online or something like that.
What do you have for us tonight, Claudio?
Well, it's not as much as what I have as it is,
so much as what I'm going to challenge everyone to do.
I was listening to Tux Radar podcast the other day,
and I think they'd all switch to Katie for a week or something.
This was an old episode.
But I got to thinking about different window managers
and kind of how lost some people are when they switched to a different GUI.
And I thought it might be kind of interesting for each of us
to, and this doesn't exclude Peter 64,
even though he tried to ditch us today.
But we ought to maybe, for the next two weeks,
until the next show, maybe,
we should just drastically change what window management
or what desktop environment we are using.
So something a lot more drastic than like me,
trying to know for a week, I mean, speak to you,
you know, we should do something, I don't know,
something that we're not really familiar with at all, if possible,
if anyone else wants to try this.
Yeah, it's obvious to try it.
Yeah, I mean, I was going to try, like, rat poison, maybe,
because I wanted, I've been meaning to try it,
not to hear, that could be a good thing to try out.
I'm gay.
I mean, I was looking into, you know,
possible desktop environment,
and there were actually a lot more than even I realized.
I mean, you hear, and you think about the big ones,
like Flux Flux and Alex,
C-E-N-X-F-C-E, K-D-E, you know,
and maybe window maker.
But there's actually, like, a whole lot out there.
Hey guys, we're a lot out there.
Pardon me for interrupting, but I've got to take off.
Okay.
You guys have a good show, and I'll catch you all catch.
Cool.
Alright, see you later.
You've got, like, some links to different ones
on MonsterBee.org, don't you?
MonsterBee?
Yeah, it's not updated.
Some of them are, like, old projects,
but I'm going to put, like, a new list in the show notes.
Okay, cool.
I mean, there's probably, like, 30, 40 window managers,
and I think, like, 10 desktop environments
that are all active projects.
Cool.
So, again, there's something to choose from.
Yeah, I mean, there's a lot out there.
I mean, it was kind of surprising to me when I,
and other podcasts that I've done this to,
I think LogGradio used to do this,
but they would all, you know, change to, you know,
this other environment that they're not used to,
and then they'd come back on the show and, like,
talk about how horrible it was,
and how confusing it was.
And I was just like, my gosh, they sound like new, you know?
It's like, okay, you change your GUI,
but certainly you're not entirely lost, are you?
And it seems like it almost underscored the weakness
of the idea of a GUI, you know?
Because, like, I mean, you get fairly intelligent people
switching just, sort of, the look and the feel,
or the, you know, the user interface of the system,
and suddenly they turn into idiots.
So, I think it's probably not a bad idea to kind of, like,
try out a different one and kind of get used to adapting
to your environment, you know?
I mean, I don't ever want to sit in front of a Linux box,
and just because it's running, I don't know,
XFCE instead of KDE,
it just looked like an idiot, you know?
So you're going to try the red poison?
I'm thinking about it, yeah.
I mean, they're, like I said,
they're actually a lot more than I kind of realized,
so I might, I might try something else,
but I'm thinking red poison,
because I've been meaning to try that for a long time.
My downloader today is, like,
438 kilobytes or something.
It has to get tiny download.
Yeah, I'm off for it, and we'll talk about it in a couple of weeks.
Yeah, and not like the Linux cranks coding challenge, either.
Well, that's still going on.
That was just extended a little bit.
Right.
It extended, like, by 10 years.
Oh, yeah, some of us need more time.
Yeah.
Well, this isn't going to get extended 10 years,
because it's worn everyone.
Yeah, and if you don't do it,
and you can't prove that you switched for a week or two,
you get kicked off the show permanently.
Damn.
Should we do, like, a daily screenshot?
Yes, you have to do daily screenshots,
two units born to record, you know, to show your progress.
Or lack thereof.
How about just two screenshots?
Daily seem like a lot.
330 has to do daily.
You can do two, because I trust you a little bit more.
I think how it is.
And no virtual box things, either.
I want you doing your actual work in this environment.
How can we prove...
There's got to be something we have to put on the screen
to prove that we're doing it.
Do an LFPCI.
How would that prove anything?
Exactly.
Because if it's an virtual box,
you want to read, like, whatever virtual PC,
it is.
Okay, how about you do that?
And a screenshot of your browser showing, like, TitRadio.
Website, TitRadio.info.
Why would that prove anything?
Well, because how many screenshots you're going to find out
there with TitRadio?
I see what you're saying.
You're trying to get it.
Okay, yeah, that's fair.
You can still cheat the other way around.
You can make the new window manager
you're working environment
and then run virtual box on top of that,
with your usual working environment.
Whoa!
You guys, if you're going widely...
That much trouble?
Okay.
Was there a desktop environment you have not tried J-Linsey?
I think I did.
As I looked at the list,
yeah, there are quite a few that I haven't.
Okay.
That's it.
Yeah, cover it.
So, over two is the thing we could do, like, a PSU dash,
capital C, capital X,
to show all the processes,
the process time of X.
Yeah, there are ways to prove this.
It's like nobody trusts anybody around here.
I know it's kind of sad, isn't it?
So, what's 330 going to try?
I was thinking about trying a new step.
I thought there was just a...
It's a neat one.
Is that a new step?
I'm sorry, go ahead.
Go ahead.
I was going to...
You're going to say the same thing.
The new step is just a set of, like, libraries and everything, I think.
If window maker is the actual name of the environment, like a...
Well, I guess I will be going to MonsterBee.org to find some more.
Yeah, just try window maker.
It's...
You should be able to find it pretty easily.
That was in your list of ones that weren't allowed, sir.
No, it wasn't.
Oh, was it?
Yeah, it was the very last one you said.
Well, if you've never tried it, then you should try it.
I retract my list.
I will dig through this list, and by tomorrow I will be running something totally off the wall.
All right.
And people can go look at my blog, because I'll start a two weeks with daily blog thing with screen shots.
Nice.
I was thinking about ICE window manager.
Yeah, you know, I was kind of thinking of FVWN, because Dave is always like raving about...
Dave Yates is always raving about it, but I don't know.
Well, let's you know in a couple weeks.
Yeah, ICE is supposed to be pretty nice from what I've heard.
Well, you got a story for us, GMN?
Yeah, I've been playing with something called ENNA, which is yet another open source media center.
And on the second, they did their first public stable release, which is 040.
And this thing is built on a large chunk of the Enlightenment library.
Interesting.
They have packages out for a karmic, but if you do the compile, this is not a very pleasant compile.
I'll just say that up front.
When you do the Enlightenment libraries, the ones in the Fedora repo were not new enough.
That I could compile this thing.
So basically, you're going to have to pull the SVN of the Enlightenment tree and then compile them that way.
Wow.
Do you have a link?
So I have something to look at, what you talk?
Yeah.
It's a random link to just any web page.
Just want someone to look at it.
This is where I know and trust anyone.
Wow, just look at that.
They keep it quite weight using all the Enlightenment libraries.
Enlightenment has all this, they have their own scripting language that's like C.
And just things like alpha blending and anti-aliased text.
So they build on all these libraries and they've come up with a pretty nice interface.
Still buggy because, you know, it's early.
I managed to get it to hang on some images.
I'm not sure what the problem is there.
This is really nice.
But it stores the metadata in the SQLite that they run.
So once your media is accessed, it'll get the little images it shows that says the dvx or whatever.
They'll be surround counter when they're visiting.
What distro did you install it on?
I did the build on my Fedora laptop.
Do you think it'd be easier on Ubuntu?
They actually have packages for Ubuntu.
I assume that the Enlightenment libraries are up to date, maybe.
So maybe it wouldn't be that much trouble.
Yeah, I'm just looking at the website and you're showing Ubuntu repo you can add to your source list.
Ubuntu has all those PPAs and everything.
I'd be surprised if you had a lot of trouble getting it going.
They mentioned that one of the features is done as a configuration that you can configure in within the program.
But I couldn't get that turned on.
And in the configuration section of the screen shot, they didn't actually take a screen shot of that.
So I assume it's not in there yet for the stable release.
Because that would be pretty important to take a picture of, right?
Yeah.
So the configuration file is really straightforward.
I mean, when you look at it, you'll understand where to put your media path and how to change the city for the weather and all that.
Like when you play a video, what is it used for the player? Is it their own custom player?
Yeah, it's built in there.
They use a lib player for the backend. It's one of their own libraries.
Yeah, it looks really nice.
Yeah, they don't have everything in yet.
If you look at the features page, you know, they're going to add the podcast support and the TV to pull from your DVR.
It's an interesting project to keep track of.
Have you tried planning any games or anything with this?
Well, the games aren't in the stable version yet.
Oh, you can't use like any different games on your, like if you had a bunch to install.
You couldn't pull like a card game or something.
No, that support isn't even in the interface.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, too bad Peter wasn't here. He would like this.
Yeah, this is definitely something he'll be interested in.
Jaylen, have you had any experience like with either what was that other one?
You know, Eliza or whatever that one was called, that Peter 64 was talking about or X, B, and C compared to this.
Like, is this noticeably faster or is it just more of the same but different?
I couldn't tell you. I really don't have the experience there.
Okay.
Let's move on to 330.
I've been playing with this thing all week and let me in a nice link for the IRC.
One of the GNU generation projects is a thing called tinyog.com.
And what it is is a flash video converter that converts to Aug Theora and then allows you to play it using the HTML5 video text.
It's written by a guy called Osama Kalad and it's really straightforward.
You take your, it only supports YouTube right now.
He says it's really easy to add other streaming sites but no one has done it yet.
And he's asking for help so that anybody that's interested should go to tinyog.com and look in the fact and see how to contribute.
But it only holds the videos for 48 hours because he figured that people are going to convert them in either watch them once or download them because there's a download link.
And yeah, there was no sense in holding absolutely every video that everyone had ever wanted to see for ever for most part.
But it's all AGPL version 3.
All the text on the site that isn't, yeah, someone else's stuff is a creative comments attribution share like 3.0 license.
It's actually really cool. It takes a little bit of time to convert the video.
But I mean, this is a totally doable way to not have flash.
Yeah, this is pretty neat. I mean, it won't actually load for me right now, but it sounds neat.
And one of the cool things that has is you can queue videos so I can start just opening a whole bunch of tabs and doing the same thing over and over and over.
You can just queue them and it'll show up when they're done.
So the input file necessarily has to be a flash file?
Well, what you do is you just take the link from YouTube.
Like if someone sent you a link, they're like, how do I look at this stupid video?
And they just flap a YouTube link in there and you're like, crap.
You just take that dump it in here and it'll save the file from YouTube.
Convert it to the aura and then present it to you.
Very nice.
Yeah.
I mean, this isn't the first piece of software to do it, but it's the first that I know of this completely free software.
Now, is it the first one like this that you know of?
I mean, this seems like a very sort of turnkey solution.
You know, you just, you get the link, you paste it here, you get to watch it.
And it's free.
There's a lot of video converges, you know, YouTube video converges.
Oh, okay.
I didn't know about this.
Yeah, but, you know, they output to MPEG4 or, you know, AVIs or something like that.
This is the first one I've seen that's a turnkey aug converter.
And none of the other ones would let you watch it on the site.
You had to download it then.
Well, yeah, no, I think that's the real selling point right there.
That's what it seems to me like really, really convenient.
Because I mean, you know, that's one reason I don't watch a lot of YouTube that people boost in me,
is because I just don't want to bother downloading the stupid thing, converting it, watching it, and deleting both, you know, or whatever.
Yeah.
Just having it all just, you know.
Well, actually, I don't actually convert.
I just don't want to bother downloading because the in-player should, I think, plays FLD.
Yeah.
But the in-player will.
Yeah.
And I mean, it takes, I've had anywhere from three to five minutes.
I mean, it's long enough that you go, man, this is kind of taken a while.
But it's not long enough that it's not worth doing.
Sure.
Yeah, it sounds pretty nice.
It sounds like it really needs a little service.
Yeah.
And the thing is, the URL is short enough.
And it, it puts like a, you know, how the URL shorters have like a hash at the end of their URL,
and then it expands.
This looks like a shortened URL.
So it's great for, you know, posting into, you know, IRC without flooding a channel
with a big long string of crap, or into, you know, a micro messaging service like Identica.
You're talking about the URL of the video after it has been converted.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because you can link right to it.
And it's there for 48 hours.
48 hours, okay.
That's cool.
That's fine.
Do you have the option to download it if you want to?
Oh, yeah.
There's a, you know, as the, you know, it has to go through the entire conversion process.
But when you're watching it, there's a link underneath this as download video.
Is there an option to then re-encode back to Flash and then repost to YouTube?
No, there isn't.
Sorry.
But I'm using it then.
What is, what is doing is running a FFN peg to Seeora in the background.
Well, there's a new Seeora encoder that is supposed to be like substantially better.
But I don't know if it's faster.
But I guess they know what they're doing.
Hey, it's, it's a young kid.
I mean, if you, if you think you can help him,
it's a little message, let him know.
I mean, even if you, you can save him, you know, 30 seconds of conversion.
Yeah, really.
I think it's a problem about it.
Yeah.
No, I mean, I highly doubt it.
What I might be able to conceivably figure out is parsing, you know,
whatever other media site is out there as part, you know,
going through what the typical way of calling that video is, you know.
I imagine that's probably why he hasn't added more sites than YouTube.
It's probably simply a matter of looking through, looking at what happens
when you say, okay, I want to watch this video and, you know,
figuring out where that little media file is that you need to feed it
in order for it to be converted.
But YouTube, obviously, it's the big one, I guess.
I mean, that's the best one to use.
He says that all the other ones would be really, really easy to do.
Yes.
But I have absolutely zero-properatic skills that I haven't looked into it yet.
Yeah, I think it's just literally, like, if you, if you get HTTP Fox plug-in
for Firefox, you can basically look at the incoming and outgoing, I guess,
like, the type of traffic that you are seeing when you go to a site.
So you can go to, like, YouTube or whatever, or I can't even for the life
when you think of the other media sites right now.
For example, Vimeo Daily Motion.
You know, you can go to there and you can possibly see, you know,
a lot of the traffic and see what it's doing at that moment when you're saying,
okay, play this video now.
And if you kind of parse that, either in your mind or whatever you have to do,
you know, to plug into Piniog.
And then figure out where these videos, how that little string is stored,
then you can probably write a little, I guess, a plug-in.
It would be four Piniogs so that when you say, okay, I want to load a Vimeo,
it knows where to look for that video as opposed to how it's going to look
for a video on YouTube or whatever.
That's what I'm anticipating.
I can't get Piniogs to load right now because I've been kicked offline by Comcast.
Thank you, Comcast.
Oh, yay.
We already have links going up in IRC from it.
Oh, cool.
That's a very nice find.
Yeah, that's a good one.
Nice clean website, too.
Oh, yeah, it's very, very nicely designed.
But you can just look at it and go, he's doing everything in his power to stay out of your way.
And there's also a, they're looking for someone to make them a logo.
Richard Christ.
Okay.
Actually, how is he going to send him a message and see what he thought he could do?
That guy's got an axe for logo.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah, this is a nice website, actually.
Yes, they're really nice.
This is cool.
Okay.
And he's got to be between 13 and 18, or he couldn't be a part of the new generation.
So it's interesting that there are people much younger and much smarter than I.
Doing really cool stuff like this.
I'm looking at his CSS work on the website.
I'm looking at the rounded corners.
I might take a look at his code.
Those aren't, are those CSS rounded corners?
No, I'm looking at the source code to the page.
I think it can conquer even.
So, a lot of times I don't see rounded corners in there.
Finn, another feature of pine August, there's a random button.
If you click that, it'll just go to a random video that...
That's a horrible feature.
Why would you want to do that?
I just got Rick rolled.
I got the collision on Wellward.
So if you're bored, you know, you're still going to YouTube and trying to find something to watch.
Just watch something random and someone put up.
You might find something interesting.
If you're bored, you should be writing a plugin so that you can...
Let's just have different sites go through this thing.
Shouldn't be clicking on random YouTube junk.
So I'm actually interested in getting this running on my own and having it stay for longer than 48 hours.
This is just a drop-dig simple way of getting all this to happen.
You could literally make a free YouTube in like 20 minutes.
Could it be because it's a good thing for this?
Yeah, I bet the whole 48 hour thing is because of bandwidth.
This is probably going to eat a lot of it.
Yeah, I can only imagine.
Well, that in storage space.
Well, that in his processor is converting it.
Okay, that can think about that.
All right, see, the random one just takes you to something that's already been.
Oh, yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
That makes a lot of sense.
Okay, it makes that very clear.
Yeah, I thought it would just go out to YouTube and pull a ramp up thing and then...
Oh, man, I would eat it.
It makes much more sense.
That's what I mean.
If you're bored and you're looking for freeism, freedom, content,
maybe under copyright or something, but...
Right.
Yeah, the way that it was was just that funny.
Very nice.
Fine, 330.
I'm going to...
Well, I have a command line application called INC.
Did you guys ever use this?
No, I don't know.
That's not in there.
Command line tool to check your INC levels and your printer.
Oh, wow.
It's...
Linux and print.
Yeah.
All right.
Yeah, it's very easy to use.
Of course, you got to install it.
The web address is INC.sourceforge.net.
And most likely, it's going to be in your distro's repository anyways.
But as root, you just type in INC-P.
And my printer is a USB, so I just type in USB.
It hit INR and it tells me the percentage of all my cartridges.
Like, I have a black one.
It's 56% and my color is zero right now because it's empty, of course.
But it works pretty good.
And it supports Linux and Open Solaris.
And it supports all the major printers like Canon, Epson, and HP.
And there's a huge list of all the printers that support on the website.
That's great, nice.
So it works on network printers, too.
So I haven't tried that.
I have to give it a try, hook up to printer to my BSD box and see if I can connect to it
from my Debian box and get the INC levels.
I don't know if it's possible, but I'm going to try it.
I wonder how accurate it is, because my perception or my perception of printer ink stuff
is just that they lie to you half the time about the ink levels.
It was really not easy to me at all.
I think this is pretty accurate, because I was using this.
I want to say 2003.
I was using this.
And the Windows computer said it was empty with the HP software.
And this showed it had like 12%.
All right, yeah, that's what I'm talking about.
That's cool.
But it could actually save people a lot of money.
I know.
But you actually have to get a printer now.
You probably want to watch it, though.
You don't want to keep printing if it's, I would say like 1%, 2%, or even 3,
just consider it empty.
You don't want to actually run it completely dry.
Right.
Probably clogged with the print head.
Yeah, but yeah, if you needed to sneak out with a couple of more pages,
now I don't know how many times you've been printing like a paper for school.
And you're like 10, 11, all come on, it's only 12 pages.
Get the last one out.
Yeah.
And guys, I think I've decided on rock filers for that.
They're not rock filers.
Rocks, that's that.
Oh, yeah.
That's supposed to be really nice.
I think I've tried that.
I know I've tried parts of it.
I don't remember if I tried the whole thing.
I think that might have been someone's tick one, one time.
On either tick or length.
Right.
Someone was talking about that.
I know that like three quarters of quilts has been, you know,
big rocks by other people for a long time.
I think length one of them, you know, one of those people.
Yeah.
Well, Rock's filer was one of those that was, I guess it was ported over to the Evo OS,
that I used to use before.
I used clinics.
And it was, it was therefore pretty easy to install.
So I did use that for a little while.
And I remember liking it a lot.
I think it's on diabolical, well, I think it's the default.
Maybe Rock's filer, I think it's the default file manager in diabolical.
So Rock's is a complete desktop environment then?
Yes.
And I found an RPM for it.
The file manager is actually so popular that people don't know that there's a desktop.
I never did.
I knew of the file manager.
And like I said, I think I'm either cranked or hit.
Someone mentioned the desktop.
I was the first that heard of it.
That's a kind of good problem to have.
Some so popular is that people don't know about the other thing you did.
Yeah, really.
I wouldn't complain at all if that was, yeah.
Well, let's get on with our commands of the week.
All right.
It's just you and I, class two.
Okay.
Nobody else did their homework.
Yeah.
I think yours.
Do you want me to go first?
Yeah, you go first.
Mine's pretty involved.
All right.
Well, the other day I got this book, an HTML dog.
The best practice guide at HTML and CSS.
Take it to work with me.
And then with the triple E, where actually the book has a lot of links in it.
And a lot of times I can't get internet access on the triple E computer at work.
So what I did was, I don't know if we talked about WGIT before for somebody's command.
But you can actually download that whole entire website.
You know, and put it into a file and you can view it later.
You know, without being on the internet.
So I went to the HTML dog website and downloaded the complete website.
I mean, it's a really long command.
I can just run through it real quick.
It's a WGIT dash dash recursive.
Then no clobber.
And then HTML extension.
Convert links.
And then domains HTML dog, which I guess that's a.
That just means don't follow any links outside of the of his website.
And then you just put the name of the website in it.
The complete website took like five minutes so I can view it at any time offline.
I'll definitely have to put that in the show notes because that probably made no sense at all.
That's a hard one to explain.
Well, now isn't the mirror switch?
Doesn't that like grab a lot of those switches and kind of put it all into one?
You know, if you just do WGIT dash dash mirror, I think that like includes the recursive switch for sure.
Does it?
Yeah.
I'm trying to think of what else it includes.
Yeah.
If you can, if you have a shorter way of doing it without having to type all this in, that'd be great.
Looking through this.
Man, page.
Yeah, here's mirror.
This option is suitable for mirroring.
It turns on recursion and time stamping.
I don't really know what that is.
That's infinite recursion depth and keeps FTP directory listening.
So that might go outside of the site then.
That might be a little bit dangerous.
But like I said, the book has so many links in it that refers to his website.
Yeah.
So it was nice just to have it on the hard drive now.
How big was it, do you remember?
Like it was this huge thing to download?
Well, it took like five minutes.
Let me see what size it is.
I think as long as sites don't have a whole bunch of walls in me on them and stuff,
I think probably I would think they'd be pretty manageable.
If you ran this with like a cron job, you could have like a constantly updated,
cashed version of the door project which is ready to go at all times.
Yeah, that's true.
Well, here's a command for you.
How do I get the size of a directory?
Everything that's inside of it.
Everything is inside of a directory?
Yeah, they get the size of the directory.
What's the option for LS?
Oh, like LH?
Yeah, LH.
That would give you the listing of everything with human readable files.
Is there anything that would add up to total?
Probably.
How about a disk usage period?
Wouldn't that do it?
Yeah, with a disk U.
Do you, period.
No.
Do you dash H in a period?
Yeah.
That does that.
For capital H, if you went around that for something.
It was 7.7 megabytes.
How many?
7.7 megabytes.
Oh, wow, that's funny.
That's great.
I love that.
I mean, that's nothing.
So it's about the size of an e-book.
It's not that at all.
Oh, I got to remember that command.
Do you dash H period?
And then I just gripped the folder.
That worked?
I was doing that like, because I was in the folder.
I don't know if I did that in my home directory.
Cobra2 says that you can also just do an LF-SH.
And then pipe that to grip and grab the word total.
And that seems to do it.
I guess because S is sorting it.
I guess S must give you a total, which I did not realize.
Let me try that one.
He didn't do the H, but I like human readable stuff.
I can't calculate bytes.
This isn't telling me nothing.
Oh, yeah.
Again, I'm sorry.
I'm assuming that you're in the directory that you want to calculate, I guess.
It's just telling me the total.
Let me go on to the directory.
Oh, yeah, you're right.
Actually, I think he's wrong.
Well, there's an easier way to go about this.
If you do DU-HS, human readable, and summarize, and then the directory,
it will give you the total.
Yeah, that's what I did.
Okay.
Just like what we did before, right?
Yeah, except instead of just saying period, he said the directory,
which is probably what I should have said to be clear.
No, but if you do the summarize, the S, it will actually give you the total.
Yeah.
You don't have to grab for anything.
Well, no, I didn't grab for anything either.
It gives you even without that.
No, he grabbed for it.
Oh, sure.
Sorry.
Well, they all put the same.
I don't think...
Okay, here it is, an IRC.
No, I said the same one I'm using.
But use the S.
All right.
The summarized option.
Perfect.
That's going into show notes.
That's a good one.
That is a good one.
C.J. Lindsey did have a command after all.
Should I put that, your name by that command in the show notes?
Sure.
I don't want Clot 2 to get credit for it.
No, because I didn't do the S.
Sorry, I lose.
Clot 2's was way too long.
R.S.S.
Piped, grep, total.
My goodness.
Okay, rule of how do you dash us?
Well, the one C.J.
just gave me the total of the...
the total of the folders and files.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, again, it kind of depends on where you are.
Like, you're just out in your home directory.
It doesn't no matter why.
Even if you're inside, it just tells you how many items are in the folder.
Isn't that what it does?
I see...
I'm not...
Yeah, you're right, I think.
I'm not quite getting the...
Yeah, the R.S.H.S.
does not work.
Grep total does not work.
It's giving me a different number than DU.
So, I trust DU.
Like, my document folder is like 483 megabytes.
Jeez, what do I have in there?
With DU, and then when I do an LF on that,
it gives me like 215 megabytes.
So, I don't really understand.
Well, the size option for LF is actually specified in blocks.
Oh, okay.
So, the number will be way off from...
No, okay.
I never knew that.
I didn't know they were specifying it in blocks.
Just think when this is posted on HPR,
so he's going to listen to this and say,
wow, these guys are amazing.
You guys have no idea what they're talking about.
They just blew my mind with that command.
You want your mind to truly be blown?
Go ahead and try.
Yeah.
Big, rough email that gave me this command of the week.
I was going to try to play it off like it was mine,
but really, no hope does no one believe it.
So, it's basically using a 4 loop in order to download sequential things from a website.
You could obviously do this with other...
I mean, obviously, a 4 loop,
you can do lots of stuff with it.
I wouldn't know how,
but here's how you can use it to download sequential files for instance.
So, over two told me last night that I should listen to some of the old twat episodes
that speak with the tech episodes.
And there's a lot of those, actually.
You know, of course.
Old Joan, they had like 100 episodes or something.
We're probably more.
So, if I wanted to download like the first, I don't know,
10, you know, to listen to tomorrow.
I could do 4, the word F-O-R,
F-S-S,
F-N-I-N,
and then 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
all safe, still limited.
Then my colon,
do, W-Get,
http colon slash slash www dot plot tech dot org slash f slash
dot zero zero,
dollar sign f f dot mp3,
then my colon is done.
And what that does is it's going to say,
okay, so for F-F,
and then that F-F variable kind of becomes
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10,
and then it replaces that F-F
in the due,
the W-Get,
it replaces the dollar F-F,
the end of plot zero zero,
with whatever number you've specified in the four loops.
And I guess at the point of the 10,
it would actually break down.
I would have to start a different loop for that
because I have an extra zero in there.
But certainly for the first nine,
I could do all that with 1 for a loop command.
And that's it,
that's how you do 4 loops in BASH.
Are you going to put that in IRC?
Yeah.
These guys are going crazy in the IRC
wanting you to post it.
Yeah, I'm going to let them beg for it a little bit longer.
And I'll finally paste it in.
And they think they just can't hold out anymore.
That's a pretty complex command.
You know what it really is.
Oh, once you write a couple of four loops,
they're all pretty much the same.
Yeah, it took me a couple of emails back
and forth with SIG for up to understand
what she was trying to tell me.
But yeah, once I realized that it was the F-F,
and I guess that,
I mean, that could be anything.
I don't know what made her choose F-F.
It really should just be FUBAR,
four FUBAR in 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
Submicro and DW get URL,
slash,
plot, 0, 0,
valor sign FUBAR.np3.
Submicro and done.
So, yeah.
Yeah, and J Rule was pointing out that BASH Potter
has really good four loop examples.
And I agree, BASH Potter,
and what I'm using right now,
BASH Potter.
I mean, just if you want to see BASH scripting
done really well,
but in a way that you can kind of almost understand it,
look at those,
because you kind of like,
you know what's happening.
You just need to get written out
in a script,
and then you kind of figure it out.
And you need to type Done at the end.
That's part of it.
I've never tried it without the Done.
Yeah, you do need that.
Okay.
Oh, Jesse James has a shortcut.
Yeah, I guess you can just do it as like a
squiggly bracket,
one of those things you call one dot dot eight.
Just close squiggly bracket.
Yeah, there's a lot of ways to get the sequence of numbers in there.
You can also put commands in there,
so you can get the results of LF's start-up,
whatever evaluated into the expression.
Wow.
So, for each file that matches this in this directory,
do this to the file.
File.
That would be pretty cool.
Great commands.
I think the best so far, best yet.
Yeah, they just keep getting better.
It really helps that someone, you know,
like a program I wrote in,
and provided a commands a week.
I can only give so many interesting switches for like, you know,
LF or DF,
and call it a command of a week.
Yeah, it's like my WGit command.
It looked really simple on paper.
Then once I start reading off all these options,
Yeah.
It's just like, what am I talking about?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, should we end the show with a few phone calls?
We could try that, yeah.
We'll give it a go.
All right.
If they're awake.
It might only be busy debating for loops and do while.
Yeah, they've been on hold for a while,
so they might be sleeping.
It's not Gorkon.
I don't want this.
I don't want to hear them.
First caller.
Cobra.
Open it up.
Hey, how's it going?
Makeover 2.
You're not asleep.
No, I'm not.
Sounds like you're up north.
I am.
Your voice is changing.
All right.
Sounds like a northern.
Yeah, you kind of sound like New Yorkish or something.
Or Vermont.
Like a Yankee.
Yeah.
Oh, well.
Yeah.
So you having fun up there?
No, really.
It's freezing cold outside.
I'm sitting in the house and it's about 35 degrees inside,
and I think that's warm.
Yeah.
What are you doing?
Are you renting?
No, actually, I'm staying for free at a house per sale.
Exactly.
How are you doing that?
Weak.
Very good friend.
Oh, okay.
I thought you just broke in.
I thought it was just squatting or something.
Yeah.
Yeah, that'd be nice, but slightly illegal.
Yeah.
First you wouldn't have power and stuff probably.
No problem.
Is there internet?
Pretty good internet, actually.
I've got my...
I don't know if you saw my setup up and feel high on it except,
but pretty much doing the same thing and pulling about.
One megabyte a second down and about 500 KBS up.
Are you using it now to call in?
Are you on your cell phone?
I'm on my cell phone.
On the cell.
Oh, nice.
Yeah.
But do not name the platform.
Do not name the platform.
Do not name the platform that you're using.
This is a new...
Not new.
Yeah.
No mentioning the platform,
but I'm going to say that I am over the data connection of the cell phone,
not a wireless connection.
Oh, what the heck?
What kind of phone do you have?
I'm sure it goes.
I guess there is the new Motorola-owned Verizon.
Is it an Android?
Uh-huh.
No, how is it?
Do you like it?
I love it.
Do you think keeping me from an Android phone is the cost of the data plans?
They're like 80 bucks a month.
You can get this account pretty easy.
It doesn't really amount much.
Through my college, I've got a 20% discount off of data plans and voice plans,
so it cuts down a little bit not much.
I've seen all your screenshots, Unix porn.
Can you actually install anything on that,
or are there certain, certain special Android apps?
Uh, it's basically Java,
the phone top of some C libraries.
So everything on the application layer,
which is like everything you would use,
that you use your interface and everything is Java.
So you just have to do everything,
all your coding and any application you have to do,
you have to be through Java.
Oh, okay.
So, like, I couldn't download this source code to,
I don't know, rocks filer, for instance,
and compile it and compile it.
Correct?
Uh, as far as I understand you, that's correct.
Okay.
No.
It's still good if you're tuning though.
Well, I've kind of hacked around a little bit,
and I actually do have,
I have to configure,
and some other things that were not on the phone,
on the phone now.
Okay.
But I'm doing that through a busy box.
Right.
Yeah, I imagine the command line apps,
I would imagine you could probably manage to get in there.
Yeah, I'm working on getting the air crack on it right now,
because that would be fun.
Yeah.
You'd be useless to me,
because the wireless card on the phone does not have
monitor remote, which sucks.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
But in terms of compiling stuff on the phone,
like, you get to download other development libraries
that you can download pretty easily for it,
or do you have to go,
do you get the SDK for Android or something?
I mean, how's that done?
Uh, what do you mean, like, compiling on the phone?
Like, actually, don't compile on the phone.
Or you cross compile on your computer,
and then put it over on your phone.
No, you would compile it on your computer,
and then put it on the phone.
Uh, okay.
And you do that with the SDK,
or you just say, um,
file this for the ARM process,
or whatever chip it is.
It's a Motorola.
Uh, you get the SDK.
Okay.
Uh, I think we're kind of talking about two different phones here.
Like, the SDK,
it's just for the application layer itself,
like everything else though.
Yeah, no.
I mean, let's say you want to get, if config,
I have config on the phone.
You've got the source code on your laptop,
so you just invoke GCC and compile it,
but you say you tell GCC
that you want to build it for ARM,
or whatever processor your phone has in it.
Is that what you do?
Yeah, what I had to do,
what I had to do is I had to build it for ARM,
and put it on the phone.
But I have to invoke another script
to actually run it inside the phone.
Oh, interesting.
Okay.
Yeah, it's a little strange,
and that's not a lot.
Okay.
Wow.
Well, it is interesting because,
I don't know.
I mean, it seems like you,
we kind of saw Java as the GUI layer
in a lot of, like,
demonstrations and stuff,
but I never really saw one that was actually,
you know, the user space
on top of an operating system.
But now, I guess we see it.
I mean, it's just what it is.
You know, it's like Java actually
being your entire user interface.
Yeah.
So it's actually Java layers
running on top of something else.
Yeah, it is a,
it's a Java layer that runs on top
of once with these batteries,
which is an actual
Linux operating system.
But it is like you're saying
it is the entire user interface.
Yeah.
Interesting concept.
Like cloud computing for the most part,
when you think about it,
I mean, you have a server
that runs on something,
you get a little interface
into it,
and all the applications
can run pretty much on any machines
because you're all linked into a virtual machine.
Anything I said just makes sense.
Yay.
Yeah, I just be on me right now,
but I think I see what you're saying.
What's the name of that new phone
that Google just came out with?
Nexus 1.
No.
Okay.
I mean, it's a new mobile,
and they say I can get it for $180.
But if I didn't get the data plan
with that,
would that be pretty much like an
N800?
I mean, I could probably do
all the same things on it, right?
Yeah.
Because that would be a heck of a lot cheaper.
Because you really think you'd be able
to not, I mean,
live without a data plan though,
I mean.
What has Wi-Fi?
Oh.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, yeah, you're right.
Okay.
The only catcher
is if the mobile is actually requiring you
get the data plan itself.
Right.
That's probably part of the
mobile network.
Yeah.
It's like, with Verizon,
it's like,
it will sell you this phone
for achieving,
give you a nice big rebate,
and we're going to require
that you have a data plan
as long as you're on our network.
But they're saying $79.95
or if I sign a contract for two years,
and I can get the phone for $180.
That's what it is.
Awesome.
Yeah.
It's awesome about that.
It's a little bit short.
That's the,
the thing that weighs me away
from the next is that
it doesn't have a physical keyboard.
That would be kind of buggy.
Yeah, I'm kind of tired of
how to physical keyboard lately.
I just, I don't think
that the touch keyboard
are really where they need to be.
Or maybe they'll never be
where they need to be.
I just, I like the physical keyboard.
It's like your own key mobile, right?
Yeah.
You might want to look at
it speaking around for a photo
of a mouse phone.
So yeah, the G7 version
of the joy.
And I could just probably
put my SIM card in it.
And you'd be able to use
even if you got the
European version.
You'd still be able to get
onto a 3G if you wanted it.
Probably going to wait
about June or July.
Maybe you look into one.
That's when I,
when I can get a new phone
for free.
I think that's for my time
is where I can get a new phone.
So maybe I can get
something like this.
You know, the discounted price.
Well, let's, let's take some
more collars.
Well, art hung up on us.
I don't know who this one is.
A little mystery collar.
Yeah, the mystery collar hung up.
How about this mystery collar?
Yeah, it's not that big a
mystery.
Like a stalker.
I know.
Well, I got a reprieve.
You didn't have to,
uh, babysit after all.
No, I had, uh,
I'm the laptop, uh,
or my network, all unplugged.
I was headed out the door
when the son and daughter
and law got home.
So, uh, I just let them
relieve granny.
Well, at this time,
they'll be sleeping.
That'd be an easy job,
wouldn't it?
Yeah.
That wasn't the problem.
It was just as it turned out
to be the wrong night.
Podcasting night.
Don't go by the barn.
Right.
My, uh, talk quality.
Sometimes really good.
And then sometimes there's like
a weird noise.
Yeah, it's a little bit
variable, uh, this time.
Weird.
Yeah, sometimes it sounds like
you're, like, downloading, you know,
a lot of stuff on your,
on the network or something.
Or, you know what I mean?
Like, like, something
to eating your bandwidth.
Yeah, the place where I'm sitting at,
I'm sitting right in the
22 towers.
So, it's probably fighting for
one tower and the other.
Oh, you're not,
you're not, oh,
that's right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's pretty cool.
That's why I called him.
I could.
Yeah.
And does anyone, I mean, like,
does, uh, T-Mobile or whoever you
said you were on,
do they know that you're doing
that?
I mean, if they're okay with
making subcalls via data plan
or they don't really know that?
Oh, I'm on the horizon.
And it feels bad that I was talking
with when I bought the phone.
I was like,
I was like,
I was like,
I'm on the horizon.
And it feels bad that I was
talking with when I bought the phone.
He told in my intentions to make
subcalls over the data plan.
And he's like,
not really blocked, man.
So, have at it.
Wow.
Nice.
I mean, like, he can go into
your subcline settings and change
the ports around to whatever you want
to drive.
Okay.
So, if I change to like 50,
61 for my port for my subcline,
it won't register.
Not real sure why.
So, I don't have any tools to check
and see what's going on.
All right.
But 50, 60 registry is just fine.
So, I'm assuming that they're
cool with it.
Yeah.
I mean, if they weren't cool with it,
I'm sure they would have had
the foresight to somehow disable it
from being done.
So.
Oh, one thing that I can't do.
I do have SSH drop there installed,
which is SSH server.
And I can't SSH from the data
plan into my phone.
I can only do that on a local network.
That's interesting.
But I can understand why that is,
because I mean, if you could SSH
into your phone,
it could be vulnerable to all sorts
of little hacks and whatnot.
But only if you leave it on, right?
Well, after your phone,
my phone stays home 24-7.
That's more out of habit.
Are you ever going to SSH?
SSH into your phone.
I mean, don't you not really need
an SSH server?
You only need...
I mean, I'm just trying to say that
it wouldn't a hack into your phone via SSH
require that you're running an SSH
game and allowing incoming connections.
I am running a SSH game.
Allowing incoming connections via SSH.
Oh.
Allowing incoming connections via SSH.
But why?
You're not going to SSH into your phone.
Are you going to SSH into your remote box,
via your phone going out?
Oh, but, of course,
you need to get the data back.
Well, I find it easy to...
easier to SSH in,
like FCP,
music,
astro-cap.
Oh, okay.
What if...
Stuff on my phone.
Stuff like that.
And also,
you can't really access the shell
in a native way.
Like, when you're doing it from the USB,
you always have to preface everything
with, like,
ADT,
which is the development terminal.
And that gets annoying.
Really fast.
Oh, yeah.
Wow.
So, it's more of just the use of use things for me.
Talk about something else.
I think we can talk about anything other than Android.
Once you mention it,
you're bound to talk about it forever.
The show is now
a hit radio Android hour.
Hey, well,
I'm starting to hate it right about now.
You're trying to get tough.
Getting rocks is harder to pain.
Oh, is it?
Yeah.
Even...
I mean, aren't there...
Isn't there a package or something for it?
No.
It's not.
I don't.
Kind of caught in the...
the repos at all.
No.
Man, it doesn't...
It has regular installiness.
It's going to work around a bunch of BS.
I'll get it though.
What if kind of expected it to be in the repository?
But I guess not.
It's not in Debbie and either.
It's just the file manager.
It's the file, yeah.
Oh, wow.
And...
Rock's term.
Yeah, I got rock's term.
Well, anything else, guys, before I end this show?
Nope, I'm good.
See what kind of magical song Terry F. has for us tonight.
That'll be interesting.
Hopefully the better than Dan's last take for sale.
It's like, is Dan even trying?
If he's trying to get somebody a kill with himself, then what do you know?
Well, I think our...
our song's going to be good.
If it's not...
somebody, uh, send Terry F. an email and let him know.
Or you can just P.M. and I or C.
Yeah.
So I will see you guys in a couple weeks.
Yep.
See you guys later.
Later on.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Hey, this is Terry from the Juice Penguin.
Kaplan off another tip radio.
Uh, tonight's song will be off the Jamando site.
It's by Berk Jarrett.
A song called Broke Down.
Um, this song sounds a lot like Sammy Hagar.
I don't know if you're a Sammy Hagar fan or not.
But I am.
Um, if you are, you'll like it.
If you're not, you won't.
Have fun.
Take a lesson from the past
with everything that's moving fast.
There's nothing worse than falling in
with everywhere it's where you've been.
Just try to leave.
Just try to breathe.
Breaking down is overrated.
Building up so high from all to see.
Just once more and I'm satisfied
with chicken state I promise that
now I see reality
is closing in no time for me.
Just try to leave.
Just try to breathe.
Breaking down is overrated.
Building up so high from all to see.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Breaking down is overrated.
Thank you for listening to HACRA Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net.
So head on over to CARO.NAC for all the birthday.
Thank you for listening to HACRA Public Radio.
Thank you for listening to HACRA Public Radio.
Thank you for listening to HACRA Public Radio.
Thank you for listening to HACRA Public Radio.
Thank you for listening to HACRA Public Radio.
Thank you for listening to HACRA Public Radio.
Thank you for listening to HACRA Public Radio.
Thank you for listening to HACRA Public Radio.
Thank you for listening to HACRA Public Radio.
