Episode: 70
Title: HPR0070: Dr. Who
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0070/hpr0070.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 10:58:56

---

If you like the video please don't forget to subscribe dearly beloved all the channel's
This is Soak, and we will listen to her public radio, and this is very important.
Don't turn around.
Some of you will know immediately what I am going to talk about, but for those that
haven't, that was a clip from a television show, one of my all-time favourite shows ever,
ever, ever, ever, ever, ever.
The show started a while ago and has been running for a long time.
It's a science fiction show.
Following the adventures of a mysterious character who is from another planet,
and his travels around in his spaceship, yes I am trying to be particularly obtuse here.
Tell you what, we will do the first, second or so of theme music, if that helps anyone out.
Well if you know the series, that would be enough.
If you don't, you're not going to get anywhere with it.
I am, of course, talking about Doctor Who.
It started in the 1960s, 1963.
It was like the day after Kennedy got shot or something.
So it got really bad ratings for the first day, because everyone was worried about that.
So it's been going on for over 40 years so far.
They had a brief hiatus in the 90s where they stopped doing it.
They tried to do a film, it didn't kind of work out, but they're doing a new series now.
And I'm going to go over some of the brief, things about Doctor Who.
Some of the main enemies and things like that.
Doctor Who's just in the name of the show, he's not actually called Doctor Who.
He's just known as the Doctor.
And he's mentioned it several times.
You know, who are you, I'm the Doctor.
Doctor Who.
No, just the Doctor.
Kind of a running joke.
But he's just known as the Doctor.
He was born in Gana Frey, which is another planet.
His race is called time lords.
They are lords of time, basically.
They have time machines called Tardis's T-A-R-D-I-S time and relative dimension in space.
They can travel through time and space in their tardis.
The Doctor was born with life on Gana Frey, and he decided to go traveling.
At least it's the backstory.
So the time lords were all stuffed shit, kind of boring people.
They like the status quo they don't like interfering at all.
The Doctor decides he's going to go and interfere and actually help the universe out.
So he steals an old Type 40 Tardis.
The reason it's old is they can then say, oh, oops, something happened and it went wrong.
That's why, because it was in the shop for repair.
That's how he got access to it.
It has a chameleon device, for example, which is meant to make it blending with anything around.
But it doesn't.
It's stuck in the shape of a police box.
So that's the basic plot, like he travels around time and space.
He picks up Ferris companions along the way.
Normally humans sometimes robot dogs, sometimes aliens, sometimes humans from other planets.
And they go traveling around basically fixing stuff.
So it's really open-ended that they can go anywhere, do anything.
Now for those of you that haven't watched it, you're probably wondering how on earth you can get going for 40 years.
The main actor, the player's doctor, first of all, is William Hartnell.
And he played it for several years.
Then he got a bit old. He started forgetting his lines.
And they decided to replace him.
So they started looking around for someone else that looked similar to William Hartnell.
Sounded the same to try to replace him.
They then decided to screw it.
This guy's an alien.
Let's make him do something and change to be someone entirely different.
So they called it regeneration.
So the doctor regenerators when he died.
And cheated death.
And he regenerated into Patrick Chalton.
An entirely different person didn't look anything like, you know, he was like 20 years younger than the previous actor.
So an entirely different person, different personality, different everything.
And they've kept this up and they've now had 10 different people play the doctor.
Well, he left but will ignore the Peter Cushing film.
So we started off with William Hartnell, the first one.
The second one was Patrick Chalton.
The third one was John Pertree.
The fourth one was Tom Baker.
The fifth one was Peter Davidson.
The sixth one was Silveste McCoy.
The seventh one was...
Wait.
No, back up.
The fourth one was Tom Baker.
The fifth one was Peter Davidson.
The sixth one was Colin Baker.
The seventh one was Silveste McCoy.
The eighth one was Paul McGann.
The ninth one was Christopher Eccleston.
The tenth one was David Tennant.
Yeah, I'm a complete fan by here.
I can read to say you recite them off by heart, almost.
So they've all had different personalities.
The first one was a sort of grandfather,
a little crotty-ty kind of person.
The second one was known as the Galactic Hobo.
He enjoyed playing a piccolo.
The third one ended up chopped on earth.
It was a master of Venusian Akido,
apparently one of the very few two armed beings to actually master it.
The fourth one, floppy hat, big scarf, Tom Baker.
He was the doctor for many, many years,
and he is possibly the most famous one,
because he's the one that a lot of people remember growing up.
He was the one with the robot dog, by the way.
He told him off a bit, except for the longest time.
He then passed after Peter Davidson,
who was a quickter, very breathy, sort of character.
Oh, hello, I'm the doctor.
We're going to run over here.
Oh, cool stuff.
Yeah, you know one's a wooden earth, am I?
He would run around and run in,
and he was very breathy when he did his acting.
That was his doctor.
The next one was Colin Baker.
He was very smug for him,
and it seemed to know a fair bit about what was going on.
We have Silvestre McCoy,
Wanderbrand with Numbrella.
They all had their own outfits, you see.
The eighth one was Paul McGahn.
As I said, he played it in a film.
Didn't think a huge amount of the film.
It was a little too American,
if I can use that without annoying all the American people.
The dogs were very British,
and it was about British people and all that,
and then all the British actors.
And then to turn around and decide that you're going to
set it in American, have a bunch of Americans there,
and it didn't seem quite right.
They just did one bit.
They made a comment about the dogs became half-human.
He was half-human, half Gallifrein.
I was supposed to pure Gallifrein, then it was before.
After that, they then had a rather long hiatus.
This is in the 90s, they did the film, and that was it.
Then early 2003, I think it was,
they decided they were going to do a new series.
That came out with Christopher Eccleston,
and he was Northern accent.
He had leather jacket, and again,
a more not quite as outrageous outfit as the rest.
But as I said, he was from the North.
If you are an alien, how comes you sound like you're from the North?
Lots of planets have a North.
After him, they then had David Tennant,
who's the tenth and current doctor.
So that's basically the doctor's regenerations
or incarnations we've gone through those.
So let's talk about some of the bank guys.
There are three main ones,
the master, Dalek's,
Subman.
They're probably the three main ones.
So let's start with the Dalek's.
Exterminate!
That was basically their catchphrase.
They was threatened to exterminate people.
They were created as a soldier race
by a guy called Davros.
He was a maiden scientist for the Khaled race,
the Khaled Anagram of Dalek.
They're from Scarrow originally.
They were fighting the Thales.
They've been fighting them for thousands of years.
And long story short,
the Davros wanted to make the Daleks
at any cost so he betrayed his own people.
So the Falska attacks to say,
oh, look at that.
Let's get them back.
I've got the Daleks.
So he sends the Daleks off,
and then there's a sort of love-hate relationship
between the Daleks and their creator, Davros,
depending on which episode
and what's going on,
what series they either love or hate
and what there's two factions and various things.
They ended up going around in space,
trying to conquer everything,
and ended up fighting for power over time itself
with the time Lords.
And that was known as the Time War,
which was explained partly
in some of the more recent series
they haven't gone into the whole detail about that.
But there's not many time Lords
or Daleks around left.
But there's still a bit of wiggle room
that they can bring some back,
should they want to.
As I said, the Daleks were very big on exterminating.
And if you get several of the minimum together,
they can get a little antsy.
That's basically it on the Daleks,
at least for this brief overview,
after what I can't really get.
All the 40 years were for Doctor Who History
with all the books,
all the spin-offs and everything.
So I'm just going to do a brief overview here.
The next one is we have the Sidemen.
The Sidemen were originally from the twin planet
of Earth called Wondas,
which is the tenth planet,
although there's since been redone
in the new series to be an alternate Earth,
but basically the idea is that
they're possibly what we might become
maybe in the future.
The Sidemen are very ball-like.
They talk about becoming like us and very similar
to the ball, in fact.
And if you look at it,
there are lots of similarities.
Every citizen will receive a free upgrade.
You will become like us.
So as I said, very ball-like in certain ways.
And they do like killing people,
except of course being robots
and all digital is not killing people.
It is.
You will be deadly trapped.
Finally, we come up to the master,
as I said, the master is a time-lord,
except he is an evil time-lord.
He's permanently trying to take care of the galaxy,
whereas the doctor is trying to save the galaxy.
Another one of these ones that you can't have,
one without the other.
Now, haven't got any sound quates for this guy,
but if you really want to go and see some of the
who I would consider the true master,
you've got to go back to the John Pertwy area
and have a look at the Roger Delgado master.
He is my favourite version of the master,
has to be said.
And in the show notes, I'll come up with some good episodes
for you to watch if you want to enjoy that.
I'm going to quickly go over some of the other bad guys
that they have.
We have one episode where an alien spacecraft
re-created some weird Frankenstein-style monster,
so I've did maybe even more freaky
because it was a child,
and this episode in fact entirely freaked my wife out.
So if you're listening, honey, cover your ears now.
Please let me a man once down at the farm.
They've also had various other things.
We've had the ood,
and they turned into some weird
foot soldier for the beast.
And in fact, that was the bit that said
don't turn around to the very beginning.
The beast and his armies
shall rise from the pit to make war against God.
We are the Legion of the Beast,
and you will worship him.
We've also had clockwork bad guys.
And we've also had some really, really bad impressions.
This one was actually meant to be bad.
This Billy Piper and David Tennant,
David Tennant goes back into speaking
with his normal Scottish accent,
and then Billy Piper tries to pretend to be speaking
with a Scottish accent.
So that's about it.
That's been the brief overview of Doctor Who.
I've just got a few things left to say before I go.
First of all, the official site is www.bbc.co.uk slash Doctor Who.
You have a lot of stuff they can download commentaries
and listen to the commentaries whilst watching the program and things.
They also have a ton of sounds,
where I've got basically all these sounds from.
I should actually say the BBC have really got their head screwed on
when it comes to this whole web thing.
For example, they had one episode they went to this house.
They met Queen Victoria and a web wolf.
They actually made websites for the episodes.
So they have one episode they talk about,
who is Doctor Who rose in the episode.
Called Rose goes to see this guy.
He explains that he's been trying to track down the Doctor.
And they actually made the website and you can go and see the website.
And if you go to the Wikipedia page,
I'll put this in the show notes,
but you can go to the Wikipedia page on spin-off websites, I think it is.
And they have a list of every single one.
Basically every single episode they've got a website about it,
most of them.
The ones in the future they haven't, because it's in the future.
They have an episode about geocomptex.
And you can go and see the website about geocomptex.
You go and see lots and so it's really pretty cool.
They've got their head screwed on this.
And you can actually go and look at the websites and various things.
Okay, I've got to add this bit in.
I need to apologise.
I've got a bit of a call to if I sound weird, that's why.
But I just found out some stuff.
My episode will be coming out on Monday and on the Saturday two days before
the new series of Doctor Who was actually out.
So please go and watch it if you're in the UK.
You can grab it off the BBC iPlayer thing.
Not quite sure what else I could say about Doctor.
It's really fantastic.
Pretty much everyone in the UK loves it.
Everyone I know that likes science fiction even a little loves Doctor Who.
It's just, he doesn't have any guns.
He always walks around and he uses Sonic screwdriver,
which is a screwdriver that's Sonic oddly enough.
But he uses that.
He doesn't actually use any guns.
Most of the time there's a couple of his regenerations have.
But most of them don't use guns.
He doesn't go in all guns placing.
He thinks his way out of problems.
It's got funny bits in for the kids.
It's got jokes for the adults.
It's just the whole thing.
It's very funny.
It's very good.
I highly recommend you go and watch it.
Again, thank you very much for listening.
I hope you enjoyed this episode.
I would just like to thank everyone for all the kind words.
I've had nothing but praise for my episodes.
And so I hope I'm going to do several more.
And I really am going to try and do the Linux one soon.
I promise.
Honest.
I'd like to thank everyone who does podcasts that I'd listen to.
People like Dave Yates.
Who've been nothing but supportive of me doing this.
Dan, I know I'll make fun of you a few times.
But thank you very much.
Chess Griffin.
Just like to say, you shall be sorely missed.
If you haven't heard Chess does a Linux reality podcast.
And he's stepping down so I'd like to give a quick shout out to him.
I'd like to thank everyone else at the Hacker Public Radio,
especially the other people that are submitting podcasts.
Thanks for listening to me.
This has been Zoke.
You can go to my website at zoke.org.
It's xray osca kiloeco.org.
Or you can email me at zokesorrygmail.com.
That's xray osca kiloeco Sierra osca Romeo uniform at gmail.com.
Thank you very much for listening.
Until next time, have a good day.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by tarot.net.
So head on over to CARO.18 for all of us in need.
Thanks for listening to me.
Thanks for listening to me.
