Episode: 317
Title: HPR0317: NewsCast Ep 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0317/hpr0317.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 16:07:41

---

Music
How could public radio news cast? Hello and welcome, need to be honest,
thanks to all the short episode on news about us around in the canoes slashings world,
freeing our own source world, or frankly anything I find adventurous. I'm your host,
Phoenix. First up, Gmail announces multiple attachment
outward capabilities to its email service. On February 25th, users made notice that
they now cannot load multiple attachments rather than one at a time as before.
Over in the UK British telecoms began its family rock great tour of its business customers.
The upgrade marked attention due to it enabling its BT Open Zone service.
The upgrade in a nutshell has a second access point to the business hub
that Open Zone users can connect to. It has been enabled by default for 20,000 business
customers and a further 200,000 business customers will weigh upgraded over the next few months.
Many claims of BT and essence charging twice for the same bandwidth have been heard once
to the BT business customer and again to the Open Zone customer. The two 8P points do share
the same bandwidth, customers do have the option of turning it off, however many customers
are wondering exactly how to do this. My advice would be to call BT technical help desk
on 0800 800 154, that's 0800 800 154 and ask them to show you how to turn it off.
The other point that I may be wrong about here, but I also think that the Open Zone AP
is protected by the same weak web 64 bit key as the BT business customers wireless router.
So in theory hackers could attack the Open Zone wireless network and gain the wet key to both.
Also in the UK UFO hacker gang McKinnon once again had his hopes stashed by the British
boss circuiters over his extradition to the US to answer charges of hacking.
The UK prosecutors decided that there was not enough evidence to support a conviction in the UK.
Even though his defence team had sent a sign conviction for McKinnon himself.
I like many other British citizens are wondering why a sign confession isn't enough to guarantee
a conviction in the UK, however I am sure that there will be suitably complicated answer
to that by the Crown Prosecution Service. McKinnon's four-year fight against extradition has seen
widespread support for him to be tried under UK law, including those hackers as 8 British MPs
and the London Mayor Boris Johnson. With police that in any prison tie and given to McKinnon
should be served in a UK jail where at least his family could visit him.
His case has also picked up a lot of support due to his recent diagnosis of Ash Burgess syndrome.
And many autism experts are arguing that he shouldn't be serving any jail time anywhere.
A judicial review has been scheduled for some time in March.
For more information on the case and the circumstances relating to it,
then you can visit www.freegarry.org.uk
Tom Tom are in the brown stuff again, but this time it's Microsoft who are after them.
The satnav makers have had a patent infringement case filed against them in the US District Court in
Washington. It is a letter that Tom Tom have been using Microsoft's fat long file name patent
without license and have refused to sit down with Microsoft and negotiate a settlement.
For those of you that can remember in October 2004, Tom Tom were in trouble with a GPL
violations project and in the end made its modifications to the Linux kernel public.
And finally, hacking scholarships announced by the EC Council.
The EC Council announced on 28th of February that it will be donating $100,000 US dollars
to helping the fight against cybercrown. The US Council are well known in the
security industry for their certification products, such as the certified ethical hacking qualification
and the computer hacking firms that investigate the qualification.
The president of co-founder of the ECC Council said, while the nuclear arms race is a logical threat,
it is limited to nations and certain organisations that possess the technology and the massive resources
for cyber arms races open to anyone and everyone that possesses the right knowledge.
Therefore, we must empower cyber-defenders to stop the escalation of cyber terrorism.
And we hope that this action of the EC Council will also be a timely way of investing in the future
of young leaders that will be pioneers to defend the nations globally through the new frontiers.
For more information on the scholarship, visit www.eccouncil.org.vote-secure-aid.
That's eccouncil.org. Vote-slash-secure-aid.
The closing date for the applications is June 30th 2009.
It is also worth noting that the fund can be used for other qualifications
out with the ECC Council structure, such as CISSP, CISM and CISA events.
As usual, if anyone wants the use group meetings or events announced,
or if you have a store you want me to mention, then please drop me online at
phinicsatthelinicsociety.org.uk. That's phinicsatthelinicsociety.org.uk.
I have one event for you this week, the UK's Unix and Open Source System Users Group,
UKUUG's annual large installation system administration conference is going to be held at
Park Crescent Conference Centre London, the 24th to 26th of March.
For more information on the event, you can visit www.ukUG.org.vote-secure-aid.
Vote-slash-secure-aid. That was www.ukUG.org.vote-secure-aid.
Vote-slash-secure-aid. I would also like to give a shout out to
these people this week, zero signal, night wires in 330.
Thank you for all your kinds words, they were great and fully accepted.
That's all, I hope you've enjoyed listening and I'll catch you all again soon on Hacker Public Radio.
