Episode: 206
Title: HPR0206: This Runs Linux
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0206/hpr0206.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 13:51:15

---

Music
Hello and welcome to another sort of Hacka Public Radio, my name is Ken Fanon, and today
I'm going to be talking about a site that's called DisronesLinux.org.
A while back on our Linux Cranks episode 330, the idea of creating a web location where
people could upload videos that promotes Linux, I also released a Hacka Public Radio based
on that in reply to Microsoft ads.
I think this is a fantastic idea, and we should so much so that I registered to site
thisrunslinux.org.net.com.
Bear in mind it's at Bayshire right now, so don't go promotionless anywhere.
I would like to get feedback from the HPR community on how it can be improved and what
you would like to see.
So please keep comments constructive, I know the artwork is terrible, so if anyone
comments, it's kind of also, I'd also be willing to accept help to update the site.
Anyway, here's how the site is broken down, there's three things you need to do, there's
the upload part, there's the register part, and then there's the, sorry there's the
make, there's the upload, and there's the register part.
So essentially the make part is you create a video yourself, and somewhere in that there's
the theme, thisrunslinux.
So this PC runs Linux, I run the mix, whatever, there's going to be right now you're going
to need to go out on the internet to find out tips on how to do your camera work and stuff,
so this is an area I see here where we can expand this section of the site with tips
on how to do, with links on how to give more information on doing straightforward home
videos, stuff such as lighting and positioning of screenshots and that sort of thing.
Okay, once you've got your movie, want to go ahead and upload the movie in its raw format,
so whatever format it comes out of your video camera, we want to upload it onto the internet.
In order to do that, I don't want to be host and all these big video files and probably
need the DU, so given that the work is going to be registered under Creative Commons or
a public domain license, we can use the internet archive for this purpose, there's specifically
allow that, so I know a lot of podcasters use that instead of using something like Libsen
for instance, so that gets me onto another point, well let's continue on with the upload
section first, so you upload your movie to the internet archive, you can create a count
up there in the some screenshots on the site to show you how to do that, and then just
because everybody's doing it, you should also upload your video to YouTube, and when you've
done that, then you go ahead and you register the links.
Now all you need to do is put in the part that isn't specific, you'll see it on the website,
and then you need to take the box that will allow you, will say that you're releasing these
under a public domain or an attribution share like, or Creative Commons license that allows
commercial use, this is a kind of important point, it's not because I want to make money
on this, in fact I'm no intention to make money on this, but what I will do is it will
allow the redistribution of these videos for people who are charging money, so for instance
if Red has a selling promotional material on DVD, they will be able to redistribute it.
Now the reason this is important that I'm putting this in here is because I was working
on a project to roll out IPTV here in the Netherlands, my previous job, and one of the ideas
I had was I was going to create a radio station, initially possibly a TV station in Toronto,
that would be fed by podcast speeds, podcast speeds, so I had it working on the pre-production
platform, it would use bash potter, read a list, basically my list of podcasts, Linux
podcasts, take them in, convert the M3s or whatever the files are, they are files into a format
playable by the system, and it would chew them up and play them.
Now unfortunately that never took off the ground because although most of the podcasts
had not all of them are released under a Creative Commons license, they were not released
under a license that allowed commercial use, and this was a commercial, while we were
a commercial company releasing this, and therefore a lot of the podcasters that I spoke
to consider digital commercial use, now all of them said no problem, we can go ahead
and use the, use the work, not a problem, however when you have 50 or 60 different
feeds and all of them wanting a specific permission to use the work, the legal department
said no, there's no way we're going to touch this, so that is why I would like to ask
people to use the commercial license, if you're not going to use commercial license, just
put it on narcive.org, but don't put it in here, don't link it on this website, because
it's essentially going to be useless. The reason we want to keep the files up in narcive.org
and the highest quality possible is that then it will allow down sampling to things like
YouTube for instance, but it will also allow us to create DVDs in the best possible quality,
and even if we're doing something like streaming to a mobile phone, having the original source
file at the best quality possible allows for better encoding on smaller devices, so that's
the reason for that. At the moment there's not a lot there on the website, and what I plan
to do is when people upload a few movies is have the five most recent uploads on the main
page and then have a page where you can browse 10 embedded videos or whatever. If you're
going to offer suggestions, then feel free to also offer help, and at the moment, on the
enough, although the site is this runs linux.org, is actually running on my BSD hosted provider,
so that will probably change over the coming months as well. Anyway folks, I'd appreciate
your feedback. Again, it's ken.phalan at gmail.com if you want to get in touch with me.
The site itself is this runs linux.org, and I'd appreciate it if you could give me your
feedback on either the Hacker Public Radio site, email me directly or post comments on my blog,
whatever you want to do. This has been another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio,
and we'll talk to you all again. Good night.
Bye Carol.net. So head on over to C-A-R-O-D-A-N-C for all of us here.
Okay Dave, this is not very funny. Your plan to hide me behind a net fire all didn't work,
now to find out where I am, links what is my IP.com, interesting, very, very interesting,
195.240.113.180. Okay now to see where that is, links maxmind.com, paste, get location, country name
Netherlands. This is definitely not South Carolina Dave.
