Episode: 450
Title: HPR0450: TiT Radio 009 - peggy, piggy, and pat
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0450/hpr0450.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 20:55:42

---

Truth is stranger than a picture, and this is the truth. This is replays. Believe it or not.
King Henry II of England in a campaign to wipe out Robert Barons, destroyed 1115 castles. They leave it or not.
In a moment I'll tell you about a gruesome wedding ceremony.
In a moment I'll tell you about a gruesome wedding ceremony.
In a moment I'll tell you about a gruesome wedding ceremony.
In a moment I'll tell you about a gruesome wedding ceremony.
In a moment I'll tell you about a gruesome wedding ceremony.
In a moment I'll tell you about a gruesome wedding ceremony.
In a moment I'll tell you about a gruesome wedding ceremony.
In a moment I'll tell you about a gruesome wedding ceremony.
If the wedding announcement appeared in the local newspapers there's no question it would be the news story of the day.
For Elizabeth Kelsey and Jonathan Titus were married in a graveyard.
It seems that day before the Salisbury Vermont couple were to be wed the bride's brother died.
It was decided however that the late brother would attend the wedding anyway.
So the couple exchanged their wedding vows beside his open grave.
They leave it or not.
Hello everyone welcome to Tit Radio Episode 9.
The only show in heikern public radio with supertime powers.
Let's meet around Table of tips.
Clot 2.
Peter 64.
Art v61.
You doing everybody?
Pat.
330
howdy howdy
and everyone's favorite
midget and stuntman
peg wall
look it's hard fit into the cannon man
and we are on hacker public radio
and i just want to mention
uh... hello
uh... you're on
hello
i thought you were missing again
no i'm kind of busy at the moment
i'm still
sitting on the white computer
even doing that for two hours
i just want to start
because i wanted to make sure he else is squared away
i hope you backed up everything
first rule
so if you done best
in the fine day
you didn't have
linux on your wash computer
you said it scared the shit out of anybody
alright
okay that's the joke
joke and that's the joke
hello
okay a few people in the IRC
were over the last couple months we've been doing the show
they've been asking about the august
i want to let everyone know
this show will be the first aug
so if you go to titradio.info
and underneath the cow
and click on feedback
there will be
an mp3 feed
the hpr feed
the augurbis feed and iTunes
so i think we got everybody covered there
and
it's going to be nice when people don't have to wait
like three or four weeks for the show
you know they can get it right away
to hacker public radio
who doesn't subscribe to hacker public radio
come on
a lot of people i talk to say they
they just download what they want to download
what looks interesting to them
that is true
so that way they don't have to like sit there and wait
just as soon as i post it they can get it
yeah
okay and i just want to mention one thing real quick
this is hot off the press
there's going to be a wedding
at Ohio Linux best
on friday
September 25th
around 5 p.m
and i just want to say congratulations to ranny
no enluy
good for you
you getting married each other
yes wonderful
i didn't know what gay marriage was legal in a Ohio
i don't know if it's legal or nothing
they're doing it
i don't know all the details
but that's all i really know
so you guys go for it
good for you
all right you want to kick it off
what too
I will. We're starting with a storage, right, but not the command of the week.
Yeah, we'll do the command of the week later. That's our new segment.
Okay. Yes, actually I do want to take it off then. With Qt 4.6 being released, which
isn't like yesterday is news, but it's kind of developing news. I think it might have
been released earlier this month, a little bit earlier this month. But the cool thing
about Qt 4.6 is that it's going to be multi-touch, so that things like MAMO and I guess even
Symbian. I guess any touch surface that runs Linux could take advantage of multi-touch
shittiness, which is really cool. Very cool. Is it in Fadoria or in the repo?
No, I don't think anything's taking advantage of 4.6 yet. That's like a really obvious
question that I didn't actually think to look, but I'm pretty sure that the KDE 4.4 I
would think would be based on 4.6. I'm not really sure. I don't keep up as well as
I probably should with what version of Qt KDE is using from release to release. But I
know that 4.6 is adding support for like the latest. I mean obviously Qt is multi-platform,
so you've got like OS 10 just came out with no leopard. So Qt 4.6 has support for that
for the latest features I guess, or I guess the latest system calls or whatever for that.
And then Qt 4.6 is from what I understand running really well on Windows 7 for people
who are installing like Conqueror on Windows 7 and stuff like that. So it's really, I
just like the whole Qt project. I think it's really, really cool multi-platform. The more
I hear about it, the more I'm impressed with the way that it apparently just works on
all the different systems that you're writing software for.
What I want to know is how many views do the Qt 4 dance? That was a great song, but
I admit I have not done the Qt 4 dance myself.
It's a catchy tune. Super catchy. It was wonderful marketing, I guess. There is a really
great tutorial on some Qt stuff on tuxradar.com. They've got a coding project where you can
use Qt Creator to make a front end for FF impact, which is kind of nifty. And it'll kind
of show you around Qt Creator. You can download the source code, kind of look through it,
try to understand vaguely what you're doing. It's a pretty cool little project. I want
to do that and send it to someone who uses Mac and see if it'll magically run on there
and how hard it would be to get it running on there and stuff like that. I think it would
be pretty cool.
So, Qt 2, have you exhausted your discussion on Qt 4?
Yes, I think so. Pretty much all I had for that topic.
Okay, I have a non-story. Carlos Schroeder, one of the editors from Linux today, she
posted this story about sexism and FAS. She claims that it's really bad. She says that
there's only 1.5% of participants are women in FAS software. She says sexism is rampant.
Even women, she sites the issue with Linux Journal with the ad saying that she won't go
down on you like the server ad, the infamous ad. She also lists some mailing list postings
and some forum postings. All I have to say is yeah, it's a source of such party. If
you go to most of the time, when you go to Linux, that is changing slowly as far as stupid
people on IRC and mailing list and forums, welcome to the internet.
Okay, it's more like welcome to life. There's sexist everywhere.
Yeah, I mean, I don't know. I've never seen some big cat act in a photo tool, but then
again, I don't have a pair of tips. So, there's some, some, some porny geek who, you know,
who barely talks to women and he did some trick that comes on a IRC channel, you know,
he can't control himself, I guess.
I'm with 330 on that one. I mean, it's a pretty broad issue, I guess, in general. It's
almost, yeah, I mean, same, but it exists in open source, it's kind of just like, it's
like, yeah, obviously. It exists everywhere.
I'm not trying to make it sound like it's not an issue because it really is. But it does
have as much as an issue here as anywhere else. It's what I think you're trying to say.
Yeah, but it's an issue everywhere. And yeah, yeah. I wouldn't throw one community under
the bus before another.
Exactly. It's like if there's a woman at a, you know, a Linux conference or something
and you have an interaction with them, just treat them, you know, like you would treat
anybody else. Talk to them intelligently, you know, respectful. Don't be a dick.
No, but that goes through anybody you need.
Yeah, all the women I've seen at Linux conferences were treated like queens, but that was just
because every nerd in a 10 mile radius was throwing themselves at them.
Yeah, but I mean, isn't that in serious form of sexism as well? I mean, it's, you know,
that's treating someone differently because of their gender. So, I mean, that's kind
of part of the problem. I mean, it really shouldn't even be an issue. I mean, you see a human
being in front of you and they're talking about, you know, some new ideas that they have
for, you know, plasma and KDE and you simply talk to them about it and that's that. And
if they happen to be a, a female or a male, a gyro girl, whatever you're going to say,
I mean, so be it. It's the idea and the, you know, the idea of the, the code that matters.
Yeah, if we have anyone that we should treat differently, it's space aliens with blue
hair.
I wouldn't go so far as to say that they should be treated differently either. I think all
by diversity and open source is important. Hey, aren't they doing a diversity and open
source panel at O.L. left this year? There you go. Those are good boys. I never noticed
any issues in the cranks channel. No, seriously, if a woman, well, like Mrs. Oak is in there
now. Nobody's harassing her. It's the art, but we always harass her, so. No, she's not
in there. No, well, that's why we're harassing her. Yes, yes, she took over Zoke's computer
ways, growing her's all up. All right, we better move on for this gets any deeper. Peter
64. What do you got for us? Just a bit of a heads up this week. For those who didn't
know, Arch Linux has produced a magazine. Start it coming out this month. Now, if you
wait two seconds, I'll bloody get it. It's available as a download as a PDF or you can
read as HTML, which I'll just put the link somewhere there. Now, it's not just for Arch users,
so anyone is running Linux. This would be worth downloading or reading online. By, for
instance, this one, this, and this one is a little short on content as well, because two
people that look like we'll be putting it together. Well, a lot of people will be contributing
to it, but one of the blokes as a way, or didn't have internet access this last month,
so it looks like this one they want to just rush to get it out. What has it got? A few
tips and tricks, stuff like that. It's got a review on video editors, although there
are any sort of reviews and they're very, very short reviews too. Like Abby D. Max,
Sinalara, Kino, and Lives. So they've obviously left quite a few out. But anyway, just for
anyone who wasn't aware of it, if you're like reading stuff, especially on Linux, then
get over there and do yourself a favor and download it and have a look.
That is cool. Did you paste the link in the IRC?
Oh, I didn't get through it. Yeah, I got it. I can't.
Like I would only imagine this would just keep getting better and better as more people
start to contribute to it. Yeah, really cool. I'm trying to find the PDF.
Oh, I'm sorry. I'll put that link into it. Yeah, what do I understand? I used to do a news
letter. Now, I think this is going to replace the news letter.
Yeah, this would be better anyways. Yeah, well, the more stuff out there, the better.
When the tax made, well, now we talked about this before, tax magazine, the one that was
produced as a PDF, which unfortunately folded, that was a really good magazine.
Yeah, from the Linux journal, people. Yeah, you had the blank on the Linux link
picture. Did you pass a lot of money? Yeah, that guy eventually became the editor of
Linux journal for a while. That was his name Nick Petraly. Yeah, he was a sad to say
that one. And then he got shit canned. I don't know what he's doing now. Yeah, it just
wasn't economically viable. I think that what they tried to get the furthest from the
magazine or something. But no, that's right. That's very well done. Yeah, it was.
And then they asked. Yeah, they charged up. Yeah, the first 12 months was pretty well
free. And then they had the charge, but obviously they just didn't get enough. Anyway, let's
just take this one, doesn't get the same light. And imagine anyone who's into it could
certainly contribute articles to it. It probably would be happy to hear you from people who
wanted to contribute to it. But don't they expect the articles to be specifically
on arch? No, quite too. Like I said, this one's got the obviously going to have a section
called software review each month. This particular one was on video editors, but I'd imagine
that will continue, you know, with just about anything. They have a fun section. Not
quite sure what that looks. I don't know what that's all about. I don't know if I should
down and read that. A tips and tricks section, piping without the plumbing. Once again,
I'd have to sit like the stuff that's there. I don't understand. I've never seen before.
So I'd have to sit down and read that. But no, it's not specific to arch. There are obviously
going to be sections for that. They talk about Pacman in there and looks like they're going
to they've got to feature interview with this Lou Chang, whoever he is. I've never heard
of English. Yeah, cool. It's cool. It's good. There's obviously a community highlights
with you, but the ask community are the better. Sure, yeah. Yeah, I get the feel for it.
Yeah, it's got some arch-specific things and then it's kind of more general articles
that could apply to anything. Yeah, very cool. Anything else? No, not for me. Let's move
on to art. Be 61. Okay, I found a cool item that should make every techie. Enjoy themselves.
HP came out with an arm-based digital picture frame with multimedia capabilities, internet
radio, and clients for Facebook and Pandora. It's a 10-inch screen and they're also coming
out with a 13-inch screen. This thing gets Wi-Fi, has dual readers, dual card readers.
I'll paste a link in the IRC. That should be there. This thing is really the only thing
they say it's not running on Ubuntu that the HP uses on the mini. They said it is more
like a Linux-based Chumbi alarm clock computer, which I've never heard of. But it has a little
handheld remote control that you can use. I mean, we talked about that one nitbook that
with the detachable screen and stuff. This thing is like, it's not a touch screen, but it's
like an all-in-one computer. It's a really cool little device. It'll take SSD cards, memory
sticks. It'll also take comeback flash. As two USB ports comes with two-gig of flash memory in it,
which you can, because of the system on it, it's got one and a half gig useable. But like I said,
it also has USB ports on it. It's really pretty sharp. I could see something this. Now this would be
something to stick into your kitchen and hang on the wall. We talked about your cooking shows. I think
this would be pretty neat. Does the MPEG 1, 2, and 4, H264, MP4. Also, HP has a smart radio service,
which I never heard about either. They say they have live internet broadcasts for more than 10,000
radio stations. Stereo speakers in it also has a headphone jack. And it's good to look in a little
piece of device. It has a 10-inch screen on it, 10.2-inch, and they're making a 13-inch. It's got
the 800x480 display, wireless and wired. Also, let's try to look out. 250 packs. Yeah, it's
pretty sharp. Yeah, I know. That sucks, don't it? I think I would get kind of annoyed at it, though,
after a while, because wouldn't you want to break into it and start hacking around. And it seems
like it'd be hard to see that. It doesn't seem like they give you a whole lot of flexibility.
I don't know. You can network it. Oh, that's true. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. You should be able to
access it into it or hack it into it somehow. But I remember when those digital photo frames
come here. They were 150, well, they were like $150 for a little 5-inch one. Well, yeah, I
tried for 100, but we're on. Right. As I've mentioned before, she's got a feature
learning up against it, so I have to get it out of the way to the money. Well, I just need
about this. Yeah, I mean, you can stream video, audio, you know, from your network server.
I mean, I don't even just sit next to your bed. I've also mentioned this before, but we don't
have a telly in the room because it's my wife away. And I often used my daughter's EEE
feature because the screen's little. It's on the bedside table, you know, put it in. But I could
say this thing easily. Pushing that into it with the little handy remote. It's quite
a little. It's quite a way of the light. And the 13 inch. Doesn't it look a little bit
sticky, you guys? I don't know. It doesn't give you any actual dimensions on it. It looks
the screen of like a 1,000 netbook, doesn't it, months to be? Yeah, I'm looking at the
side of it on a screenshot. And it's just a little bit thicker than a cat 5 cable. If
you look at that picture, we're done. Oh, yeah, I see. You're right. Wow. But you see
here being an awful least. I mean, it's not uncomfortable to lie in bed and hold a novel.
But yeah, this thing is now in here. It's a novel. That's true. And that's another thing.
You can probably read, you know, I mean, you put PDFs on it or you pull down PDFs from
your server. You could read in this with this thing. Yeah. Hey, I wanted to get cranky
and try you in the bean. Sorry, bud. Ruined your night. Yeah, yeah. I'll go back and
be right there. You know what a damn 60 device fan. Just do our code 5 tablet. Have you
seen the specs of this thing? No. It's really sweet. Let me show a couple of stories
that have been the R6 on it. It can now put a high depth 720p. It's got an HDMI connection.
And it's coming in a whole bunch of different versions. There's going to be a low, the lower
N1 flash-based storage and the higher N1 has an actual hard drive. Well, I can see. They
have a bunch of, what? Oh, the ARC. On the one page. The ARC? It looks about 7, 8, 9,
5. It's kind of like in the vein. It's kind of in the vein of like a Nokia. Yeah.
4.8 inches, 800 by 480 screen. We could do 720p, including Windows, Media, HTTX4. It has
an optional DVR station that the device can do VGA TV recording. Has 802.11 and Wi-Fi. And
it's running Android. Okay, now we can't get in Android. It does, especially since Nokia
kind of like left the internet tablet. Oh, they dropped the ball on that one, did it? Yeah,
I've kind of walked away from it. So I could see me on the mouse. That's an idea. You can
whack in your pocket when the boss has come along. I could see you. I could see you killing
people watching this, Peter. Yeah. Well, that's a good size. Once you get up to that size,
that's what you've got. Peter, you could probably make a thing to hang off the front
of your mat and watch this thing. Yeah, but I have to be able to get in your pocket real quick
when like the directors applying it. Yeah, that is what I'm doing. We'll just tell them it's a sunshade.
Good point. Yeah, you know, you mount it right under front of your helmet there and you have it
like a sunshade. And this, you said, has HDMI out too. So you can put on your media. I don't think I'll
plug it into your tele or your projector or whatever. Yep. That's about the same thing. That's nice.
250. Yeah. 50 to 440. Yeah, depending on how much storage you get. That's got a touch screen,
right? Yep. Yeah, both touch. Resist the touch screen. Yeah. See, that other one that I was
talking about doesn't have a touch screen. But it also has an optional dock with a keyboard.
Oh, like the old palms had like that type of deal. Kind of, yeah. Well, I tell you, these netbooks
really caught a new new market. They've got people think this is even a netbook. This is
the internet outlet. Well, yeah, this is definitely in the vein of like the Nokia line, you know,
in 800 to 810 to 770. This is the phone to now. Okay. All right. So that's the one that's what
Nokia is doing. Nokia is a phone now. Yeah. That's the one thing. I'm recording that if you wanted
if you wanted to talk about that. I really, you know, I have an N800. I love this thing. I think
it's a great device. But I think the N900 is doomed to failure unless Nokia can have a carrier
do a subsidized price for $200 or less. If they don't get it below that around $200, I think
they're not going to pull shit. It's kind of sad because you know, it's probably a quality product.
Well, it's probably too quality of a product, you know. It's too damn expensive, you know. Yeah, well,
with people changing their minds on everything and all this new shit coming out, like you said,
I mean, you say 200, but I think people will spend close to 400, but even on a subsidized product,
you know. Well, but I have an Android phone, man. And I think it's absolutely great. I absolutely
love this thing. Motorola has that new phone. They just announced a click. Yeah.
Supposedly on T-Mobile, that phone's going to be free with a geocontract. Oh, sweet. Yeah,
the click looks really nice. Yeah. For I think one is supposed to get about that be announced too.
Yeah, they're supposed to have two of them rising. Yeah, they're supposed to have two, you know.
And there's going to be two on palm, also. Excuse me, gentlemen. Yep, that's it.
I'm sorry. Android violation here. Yeah, we got five minutes in the bin for Pat.
You continue with the Android violations that you'll get three minutes. And I think 330 chirp
in there, too, didn't you? I said, that's one minute. No, I was talking about Motorola.
Is that a telephone? 330. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, two minutes for arguing with me plus the one minute,
the original one minute, that's three minutes as well. God, you got to watch these guys,
any bloody phones. Man, it took you a long time. Sorry, I got caught up in it. I should send
me something to the bin. In fact, I'm going in two minutes. That was very noble with Peter.
All right, before we move on to Peggy, I just want to let you know, Clot 2, you're
disconnected from IRC if you didn't know. I did know, and my battery just kind of
cocked out on me, but I've pushed back in and I will be back on momentarily. All righty,
what do you got for us Peggy? Actually, this is from the BBC News. It's a cool little device that
I found. It's actually for blind people. It's a poem that reads, especially design labels for it.
Actually, I'll post a link for I get good and started reading this. There we go.
It allows them to attach audio labels on too much anything, and then the pen reads it,
and it will play an MP3 file, say, you went to the pharmacy because you had to get, I don't
know, a scientist of medicine. You have someone, you know, like, oh, hey, this is your
scientist of medicine. You slap on those labels on it, you know, use the pen, record, you know,
you're saying, scientist of medicine. So when you picked up the box and touched the pen to that
little label, it would just say, find this medicine in your voice. That way you wouldn't confuse it
with, say, laxatives. You know, it kind of reminds me really of the smart pens, like the one that
a 330 treats better than people because it's better than people. Those who should have been the
bin. I was unmuted, sir. I don't understand it either. You weren't just long open and I went,
all right, fine. The people that made it, they also make, you ever seen those interactive
children of the books that have the little pen and you had touched on the page and they'll, like,
save part of the story? Nope. They didn't have books when I was growing up.
Okay, so that was a stone. Well, the people that designed those books and everything with those
pens, they thought, hmm, how else could we use this? So they adopted it to read especially design
labels for blind people. I don't know about this. How are they supposed to find a label?
Especially if it's like a bag of dog food, like, where the hell is it? It's going to be all over
that bag. So they can probably feel the labels. It's going to have a little detector on it,
but it goes BBB BBB BBB, we're going to get closer to the barcode. I'm sure a lot of
probably. Talk about seeing impaired people, man. Once they start driving an electric car,
once they become more prevalent, they get a problem, man. Blind people are not going to freaking
hear them. Yeah, that's you're right. Well, I mean, people could wear these stickers
when they get close to on the car stops. Yeah. Yeah, I thought it was really cool.
That was just a crap doll over it. It is pretty cool. I'm impressed.
C'mon, Peggo, where you got to think of all the positives, too.
Yeah, it's kind of neat, but one of the kind of, I mean, that would be so
tough to get all these stickers on all the items. Well, no, if you're blind, I mean,
it's actually pretty handy because you come home with something new, or you know, you've got
a bunch of stuff on your desk or whatever. You know, yeah, you've seen a little bit of time
putting stickers on them, but I mean, you know, if you're not blind, you've seen a little
bit of time organizing your stuff, too. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought this was going to be on at the
store, and then they would go into the store with this pen and then like scan it, okay, this is
the brand I wanted. I didn't know this was for at home. I'm pretty sure that's for at home,
okay, never mind. Sorry, great idea.
I think they ought to have a, I think they ought to have it on a Dick Tracy watch, and you just wave
your arm by it, and it tells you what it is. Well, that wouldn't be a bad idea, frankly. I mean,
people who can't see what they're, you know, I mean, think about it. If you can't see and you
go into a store and you want to do some shopping, I mean, you know, we take it for granted.
You can't see the stuff. You have to have someone there shopping with you every day. That's right.
You can go out. It's ridiculous. I mean, having things, little things like this, we have the
technology. It's not like we don't, you know, we can't figure out how are you people going to be
able to see what they're buying. I mean, the least we could do is put braille stickers on stuff. I mean,
these products are being manufactured in mass, half of them are junk anyway. They can afford to put
a braille sticker on the box, but they don't. There's no reason for it. They just don't. We have a
braille on those shelves, either. We could. We, you know, it's a simple thing. So what about technology?
Now, if we add some kind of little sticker, we have barcodes already. It's not a big deal for us.
Look at the, not to go back to the A thing again. Look at the, look at the little program they have on
that phone that you can take a picture of the barcode and it tells you where you can get it.
It gives you the information about the item. Yeah, I mean, you know, we've got, we've got it,
and we just need to implement it. I don't understand why we, we have all this cool technology. We
don't seem to be doing anything really good with it. We just keep kind of like making digital picture
friends. You know, this is really, all right. It's just like Kajari said that people who work on it
don't give a shit about it because they're not blind. They just always broken. Oh, okay.
Well, these are broader than that. People just don't care because the bottom line is always the
dollar. Right. And, you know, if, you know, if 95% of your customers are not blind and 5% are,
you're just not going to care about the 5%. Yeah, but the store doesn't have to do anything because
it's already there. An outside entity's got to do something about it. The barcode down every product
and every shelf in every supermarket. Yeah, but I mean, it's going to still boil down to, to the
money. I mean, if there's nothing, you know, blind people who have to shop anyway, they're going to
just make them go find someone to take them shopping. You know, they're only 5% of the market or,
you know, whatever you anticipate they are. So it's just, yeah, it's just a lack of social
responsibility, I reckon. Well, if they took it and see, now, see, go, let's go back to somebody
doesn't have to take them shopping if they take a taxi. You know, here they can be so totally
self-sufficient if they have an item like this. I mean, yeah, exactly. Because when they go to
the checkout, they're going to scan a barcode anyway. I mean, it's all, you know, it's sad that
that they give Microsoft all this money to build a freaking bridge and they can't put that money
billion to billions of dollars towards, you know, development of technology that's already there
to benefit people that they're saying in our handicap. You know, it's really, it's Asuna, I know,
the way the whole country is back afterwards. Yeah. And coming from a guy that, you know, has some
epically bad visions, you know, don't talk about me like that. Yeah, I can't see too close anymore,
but I can't, I can't see too far. You can't see too close. So together, we can see damn
near everything. I'm not getting together with you. You just put them in a backpack and you guys
go. There you go. Then launch me out of a cannon at the aisle you want. He doesn't go in a backpack,
he goes in one of their little wagons. Do you guys remember, I think it was nine years ago,
10 years ago, Radio Shack had this little gimmick. They called it the QCAT that you couldn't go
into a Radio Shack store and get it for free posted in the chat room here. Yes, I remember,
I remember that month to be. Yeah. And you could use your mouse, right? Well, this was like a little,
it was shaped like a cat instead of a mouse. Yes. And then you pointed it to your USB and you could scan
any label, any barcode, and it would pull up the website. Yep, they give you a little disc to
load into your computer if I had one of them. I still have the CD somewhere. I've seen it not too
long ago. It was free, so I went and got one. And you still have it now, right? No. I think it broke
after I scanned like 10 things. What exactly, I'm not following what this is, so it's a... It's a
piece of picture. It's a handheld scanner. Barcode scanner. Barcode scanner, that's cool. You could
take like a can of Mountain Dew and scan it and it would pull up the Mountain Dew website. Oh, okay.
I mean, anything with a barcode, it would, it would search the internet. Yeah, give you
information on it. Oh, that's pretty cool. And that was 10 years ago when the internet really
wasn't as... Yeah, really. And they gave it away for free. Yeah. What do they do that? They got you
in the store. Yeah. You're talking about the shack, man. Yeah, and it never caught on, but there
are a lot of nerds that still have them and just use them as barcode scanners. Yeah, that's pretty cool.
Well, there you go. See, there are 10 years ago to technology. You know, it's crazy. You know,
it's a cool thing that you start to see. They have these barcodes for a certain operating system
that you can use for your roles and links to downloads of apps. Oh, that's right. So you scan
the barcode on your monitor and it will automatically download it on the device. Oh, sweet. Yeah,
that's really cool. Yeah, that is nice. I think it's QR codes. Yeah, QR codes. I'll put a link,
you could see what a QR code looks like. I've been seeing them lately. It's like taking a lot of them.
They're pretty neat. Some magazine has them now where you can scan that in. It might be a Linux
format or maybe it's wired, I don't know. But it's cool to tell, man. If I can have the barcode,
like on my computer, my desktop monitor, I just go in and scan it. And I hope it'll either go
directly to that link, you know, or a little download a app or something. That's like you net bootin.
It's like you net bootin. You know, you can go on your net bootin. Well, yeah, but I'm just saying
that the same principle where it takes you right to the website downloads the ISO and puts it on
your USB stick, you know, on one fell swoop. Wow, it's a whole new idea for delivery of viruses.
If that catches on, you just get some stupid Windows user, like some Windows user. Hey, hey, hey.
Someone who's done, they'll just listen and stop.
But you know what I mean. They're all stupid. That is not true. There are some very intelligent people.
I'm sorry. I thought I was muted. I was just getting anyway. They are all stupid.
Because I think of myself and talk about you guys. What happened to the old fashioned command line?
What old fashioned command line? You know, they're getting all this new stuff. Everybody's trying to get
away from the command line. Instead of a command line, I'm going to give you a key, the pipe key.
What are you talking about, Pat? You use the pipe key, man, and your golden. It opens up a world of
possibilities, too. Pipe key. I don't know. Don't know. Yeah, it's that vertical dash that
above the backslash. Oh, are you like trying to hint around a little less promo again, saying that the
editor of the Unix pipe will be at Ohio Linux Fest this year, and if you want to go. That's
fun. Did I mention that? I totally did not go in there. All right. Making sure that the pipe is
a great key, man. It is a great key. I love it. I thought you meant something else when you said
key. I was like, I think he's got something new here. I thought that was the last story, wasn't it?
No. No, of course not. Are you a lot of people left? Pegwall, are you done? I didn't want to
cut you short. No, you're short enough now. I don't know if those are likely. How far are you?
Four foot six. Three foot. All right. Come on. He's four foot. Three, thirty, four foot. No, he's
only three foot three. Pegwall, we're just kidding. Sorry, I wasn't actually listening. I actually
put the phone down to go pee. It's all right. We were just kidding. How far are you actually?
I'm five seven. Bull. Jesus. I don't believe it. That's what his hair on.
That's where he's wearing his flat pants. Stopped into place. Don't be hating on the pufro.
He's like that guy in a N.I.B. there, you know, men and black. His head grows back up out of his body.
Okay, were you done? Pegwall? Yeah. Okay, let's move on to three, thirty.
Well, I know I risk going back to the bin, but I want to talk about cell phones for a moment.
This is actually a little bit of meat eating pro, too. I'm going to tell people, enjoy it.
It came out, I think last week or so, to see us. Pauldry is actually spying on its users.
It's actually sending your GPS coordinates to Palm, and no one knows why, because Palm doesn't
actually offer any services that would be useful for them to know your GPS coordinates for.
Oh, no other phone sends out their GPS coordinates. Well, actually a lot of them,
there are a lot of them that do, but like almost every one of them now.
For example, Android. Google has a reason. Because they do run a mapping stock,
you know, it would make sense, but Palm doesn't have any mapping software or anything like that.
And they apologize for doing it, but didn't say they were going to stop.
And I just, I just kind of heard everybody say Android, Android, Android, and then I can.
Bop, bop, bop, bop, bop, bop, bop, bop.
Okay, first let me hear it, man. Get in the bin.
What's with the helmet made of bin someone?
Right, sorry, you continue to write 30.
Oh, but I just wonder what everyone else thought, because everyone knows that I wear a tin foil hat
and I'm absolutely ridiculously paranoid, so.
Well, I do, I mean, if you're asking about the palm tree thing, I think that's crazy.
And that's weird and scary stuff. I can't imagine why they would want to receive your GPS
coordinates, but that's bizarre. I mean, I'm assuming they will probably claim it for
marketing and to better your, you know, to make sure you get better service or some nonsense
like that, but I mean, give me a break. They claimed it was said, they take privacy seriously.
They said that it was to deliver a great user experience.
Of course, that's always the excuse. So it's done for your own good, right?
Yeah, it couldn't have been not looking out for you and you're going to walk into a sort of
dangerous part of town. They'll ring you and say, hey, listen, don't go there.
Well, yeah, that would call you.
A dangerous part of town all up to the person's discretion. I mean, there are people in this
country that if, you know, they're the quote unquote wrong color, they shouldn't be in certain areas
of town when someone wouldn't know. Well, that have an idea, you race and color and all that,
because they would have kept an eye on your shopping habits for a while and they'd be able
to sort of work out what sort of race you would. Yeah, you're still a demographic.
Yeah, you're always looking on the dance like these bikes.
I know. I know. For a genuinely good reason.
Quite possibly. They might have like a sort of a superhero, like a vigilante kind of guy
who actually does, like, you know, maybe it's whole team of them following their customers around,
you know, and when they see that you're in danger, they send that superhero to your coordinate.
No, that was the reason does. They have those guys following you around all the time.
Oh, okay. I didn't notice them. That's how I used to race. But, well, I don't know. It just
doesn't surprise me at all. I mean, to hear about it. But, yeah, it's...
Well, all cell phones can be tracked, can't they? Just through what cell tower you
haven't been connected through. Well, yeah, but that's how the owning cell phone.
I mean, I watch CSI. I know that you've got to actually add to your cell phone when you get
a Q someone. Yeah, but see what that's the thing is they know where you are because they're giving
you a surface for it. You're giving up a little bit of your privacy for a convenience. It's not
even... You're not even... You're getting a convenience from Palm when they do it. They're just
collecting data for data's sake. Well, they're probably selling it to someone, I guess.
You know, and I really don't want them knowing how often I eat at the same freaking place over and
over and over. Well, yeah, I don't have one. She's loyal. That's why it's a picture today, right?
Well, yeah, but you're on an island. Everyone knows where everybody does. You can see it.
Well, I think you should probably be a little bit concerned about a Peter 64. I mean,
I know it doesn't seem like it's a big deal right now when it's in its infancy, but I mean,
these companies are just collecting all kinds of data on 330. And they're going to come and get
them at some point. So we should all be very concerned for his safety. I'm actually...
Well, I'm even trying to... They're not at the door now for just me telling you about it,
because they are listening. I know. I'm even a little country-tans. Everyone knows they're going
to business anyway, so this would be nothing to you. They'll probably never meet by the state.
God, I hope so. I mean, what? Well, the crazy thing is that these companies, even if they're not
selling it to other people or whatever, I mean, even if they're just storing this data somewhere,
that's now in their possession and should anyone hack their system or just decide to go looking
through files randomly, because they're at work late one day. I mean, who's the data you have that make?
I have to go. Yeah, really. You lose this crap all the time?
Yeah, all the time. Yeah. So that's not necessarily... I don't know. Yeah, it's definitely a good reason
not to use your real information on pretty much everything you ever sign up for these days. That's
what I try to do. You know what bothers me is Google has my full security number.
Why did they have your social security number? About two years ago, I was doing their ad sense
crap. You know, I had to cruise away. Yeah, they have to send you a check, because you have to pay
taxes on it. It's like income. Oh, I see. And I ended up with 200 and something bucks, and they
took it away from me, because I had too many clicks from the same IP address.
So you sold your identity for $200 and then lost the $200 on top of that?
It wasn't even my IP address. Somebody went on there and just clicked it. I don't know how many times,
and it flagged it. Wow. Hey, Monster B, I had ad sense for a while, but I never filled out the
rest of the form. So if you want to stick your social in mind, you can have whatever money I made.
I wouldn't feel any safer doing that. Yeah, but if I've already go, you'll take the richer.
It'd probably be fraud. I'll probably get no price. Nope, you can't have the money.
And now they got my social security number for fraud.
But is anybody ever made any money for those ads? I've never tried it. I mean, just like
when all the podcasters selling that go-to meeting and oh, yeah, they make money on that.
Yeah, they go daddy, but they have somebody has to buy it and put a promotion code in.
So you get paid, right? They don't actually pay you every time you do a show.
Somebody's got to use your promotion code.
That seems really lucky if one person did that once a year.
Usually they pay you just for doing the ad because it's an impression.
Oh, I see. So the more times you hear about Leo going on and on and on and on about Audible,
or you know, Jason Callacan is having an audible gatham.
Yeah, that's an impression.
God, he does. It's disgusting. You think about it. I mean, we know what ads Leo does because we
all sit around and bitch about how horrible the ads are. I mean, it does work.
I used to listen to cranky geeks and like right in the middle they used to have like five minutes
worth of ads. Do you remember that a big five minute? Oh, so annoying. But now he,
back then it was okay because I could fast forward it. Now he like puts them in every 10 minutes.
Although the ones that they did on cranky geeks and some of the other stuff that
if they this was doing, like I never remembered but the ads were because it was like a real like
normal pv ad. Like at least, you know, Leo, you know, making up his own, I hate to say content,
but it is. You know, and talking about the stuff like he actually uses it, I end up remembering it.
Yeah, to me, when they trick you like that, I don't know, I just kind of, you know, it's like
when you start talking anything else, you know, it's like, is he telling the truth or is he just
doing it because he's paid? Yeah, because it's good. Like this Linux thing that I keep mentioning
on all my shows. I don't actually use it, but I'm point someone's going to start downloading it
and I'm going to get paid. So I'm just waiting for the check. Every time somebody downloads
Fedora you get paid, right? Exactly. I'm not going to use the thing, obviously. He just boot up Windows 7 here.
Everyone took a second to laugh there. I know because they're scared. They're afraid it's true.
I know. I know you're on the state. Yeah, they're like, is he kidding around or...
Inaudible. Because when you want DRM with your books, you want Inaudible.
You all right, you got the audio books? I get all my audio books from the great people at BitTorrent.
Pete, for absolutely nothing a month, you can get as many books as Google can find for you.
Not from the pirate beta, right? Have you been there lately? Not that I frequent such sites myself,
but I guess I got finally bought out or something. That finally goes through? I guess. I mean,
it's a different logo. It says something weird on their page. Actually, I just navigated away.
I didn't bother searching for what I was searching for. The new pirate bay model was supposed to be
that whatever you downloaded, they were going to keep track that it was downloaded by someone.
They weren't going to necessarily let everyone know who you are. Then they were going to
use the ad revenue from the site to pay the RIA and the MPA and all other
manner of people to care. We're not suing them. Yeah, the extortion begins. That's ridiculous.
Now it says, instead of the traditional pirate bay logo, it says openinternet.se.
Yeah, that's what it says. It's kind of weird looking that didn't really want to continue my
visit there. It looks all core pretty. Yeah. Well, I just went one click in. I went to the
TV shows thing and the pirate bay logo shows up like it always did. Yeah, it looks normal once
you're in, but it's kind of weird. Kind of unsettling to see that logo on the front page.
Pirate bay, I just kind of thought it would never be touched. I thought it was
floating out there in the ether, never to be affected by any of the real world legal troubles.
I just can't believe people actually download movies and code them the DVD. I don't even have
a DVD player anymore. I watch everything on the DVR. But it's been like DVDs kind of like
so five years ago. Yeah, pretty much. But Paypal died in Latin, and then he cut it.
That's right. They're watching on the TV. Yeah, on your media. They're rather ex-vids or
devices. Yeah. Well, most of the funny thing is that BitTorrent is so far ahead of everyone
off. I mean, if you think about going to the, you know, God forbid, iTunes movie store, whatever
they call it, and downloading your stupid new, you know, your DRM to movie to your Apple TV,
you know, I mean, they have a kind of kind of working sort of quickly. But I mean, BitTorrent,
I mean, all the content is right there, and you can just grab it and start watching it,
and it just works so well. And, you know, the rest of the industry is just not getting it.
They're just not tuning into the technological possibilities that is, you know, BitTorrent and stuff
like that. And I just wonder why not, you know, like, wait, why are they fighting this and not
utilizing it to their advantage somehow? Well, that's what BitTorrent.com is all about.
I mean, BitTorrent.com is a for pay thing that just happens to use BitTorrent, the protocol.
Yeah. Make everything download quicker. Yeah. Well, what they're not getting is the fact that if
people watch your stuff, you're going to make money. Yeah, exactly. I mean, that's what you
want is for people to consume their products. And I mean, if let's, you know, let's use box,
for example. Yeah, if they put out, they do 24, right? I don't watch TV much. Let's say they do.
Okay. We'll say that they do 24. If they made a BitTorrent, you know, they made a Torrent
file of it. And let's say, left the ads in, or only put like one per break, and then put them out.
Most people wouldn't go through and edit it out. That's what I'm thinking. Yeah.
To say, it would take longer to edit out each of those little bitty clips that would just watch
the damn thing. And people are generally lazy. I mean, that's why TV has taken off so much.
If you give people the easiest way possible to do something, they're going to do it. And even if
it's, you know, kind of a pain in the ass. Yeah, I agree with you. I think you're dead on about that.
And you can get metrics on, you know, how many times it was downloaded because everyone else
has metrics on it. I mean, look at Torrent Freak. I mean, they know round about how many people
downloaded this certain, you know, the certain Torrent file. Yeah. And if you're talking about like
a TV station who deals with Nielsen ratings, which is such a ridiculously imprecise way of measuring
things, I mean, you'd think that they would love to have metrics on something like a Torrent,
where you know that people actually did download it. And chances are they bothered downloading it,
they're watching it. You know, I mean, that's, it seems like ideal for, for these companies.
I think we should charge people for this kind of stuff. I mean, we, I know, these ideas are,
I mean, we just like took an obvious thing and dropped it in their lap. All right, now go make
$100 million. Yeah. I think we're consulting for it. Don't mind us. We'll just sit over here and
starve to death. So when you, when you download these bit torrents like, like you were talking like
24 with the commercials, you would just fast forward them. Well, say, like, um, I was thinking kind of
like, who is where, you know, I don't even get up to pee because I can't pee in 15 seconds.
Yeah, it's, you know, make your commercial, you know, to the point and just get through it.
Or what if they made like a mini series, kind of like what Microsoft was doing,
make like a mini series where you want to watch the commercial to see what happens.
There you go. I mean, clever advertising would be, you know, a really good way to do it. But,
you know, still most people are, you know, going to thoroughly enjoy just getting through it
as quickly as possible and going on. That's been, that's been a thing that the, a lot of
filmmaking groups have been talking about for years and years now, just about like how,
in theory, commercials could be such a great avenue for beginning filmmakers to do like short
films that are geared towards selling a certain product, you know, because basically commercials are
just bad. They're just short, little films. They're very short, but they're short. But it's just,
I don't think it's really taken off. You know, you don't see that many commercials that are like,
like, little mini series of commercials that engage the audience enough to actually get
them interested in it, you know. But I do think it's a good idea in theory.
Well, when it comes down to it, they're really just greedy because in half the shows you watch,
you okay, they'll be sitting at the table talking in the movie or the sitcom, whatever.
And there's a Pepsi can sitting there. That's a good point. I mean, how much are they getting
for that Pepsi can? A lot. They could probably, probably skip 60 minutes worth of commercials.
Just with that one thing. Well, while we're on the subject to talking about this, I found,
I just found this today. I don't know if anybody tried it. I'll post it in the IRC. It's called
My Media System. It looks like, what does that look like to you, Peter, 64? Would it be compared to,
well, it's got a gap. You can compare it to just about any of the media applications,
like X, B, M, C, and Boxy and all. And it's sort of one of those, it's just a media aggregate,
but like I've only just started to read on it. But what interest me here is that says it can be
display and place media content such as video music features and more. And we'll run on
set of boxes connected to your TV set. It's a little bit like an embedded media.
It's a little bit like an embedded media, almost. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Boxy. Yeah. Yeah, the
screenshots are nice. Yeah, I mean, I would love to put this on something and hook it up to my TV.
That would be pretty cool. It's just that it has games, too. Plus a bunch of plugins for weather,
pictures, movies, audio. Yeah, I like this. See, this is something that I would be more
interested in than anything missed because I don't need the TV part of miss TV. I just need the
miss part of it. I just need the, you just want to, you just want to media front end.
Yes, exactly. Yeah, well, you'd be happy to face white Xbox media center cloud two or something.
Yeah, that's right. Yeah, Boxy, Xbox media center. Yeah.
Yeah, even a Lisa now, what's that called? Yeah. Oh, yeah, I think it's a Lisa.
Now it's changed. Now it's it's called. Yeah, I can't remember. I installed it the other day.
You think about now? I'll find out. I'll tell you in two seconds.
Let me just put it on it. Is that the invite linked in you? No,
sort of an essay? Alisa for Google says it is. Now, I didn't, Maria,
a Lisa media center. It's Maria or something. Shit, can't be this stupid.
Yeah, it's stuff to go on that. What a Lisa media center. Yeah.
Moved Vida. Moved Vida. Moved Vida. Moved Vida. Wow, it's looking kind of fancy lately.
Yeah, I was starting to play around with it just. I actually thought I might use a
tick thing one week. Just to see what they've done different with it. It does look nice.
The problem I used to have with the Lisa was a very CPU intentive.
Oh, yeah. Just for the, even just for the, you know, the GUI.
Don't worry about the video playback. Just to run the GUI, seem to use a lot of CPU and RAM.
I want to see if that fits that. You know, we haven't really talked about these
little media front-ends for a year. We should probably revisit that topic at some point, really.
Like, kind of revisit all these again, because I mean, obviously they've come along
way since we talked about it this time last year. I think it was. Yeah, we'll miss 0.22.
You should be at the next couple of weeks. Oh, yeah.
Just heard your listen to you. Yes, but I actually missed a big cast.
It's going to be awesome. Yeah, we'll.
So I'll queue for base down the GUI's. It's going to support the PVR 1212 high-def
capture box out of the box. It's got VDPAU, which is the shit. Yeah.
You might watch like those hardcore H264 1080i on a little atom processor. In fact,
I got my little little eye on box myself, and it's awesome. I have it set up as a
mis-front-end box. It's awesome. All those high-def file fans, you could play them no problem.
Very nice. Hey, handles, Dolce. It does the MPEG 2 high-def files nicely.
It also has all the playback to the graphics processor. It's freaking awesome, man.
That's how if you got the Nvidia chipset, that in a light-up model.
I'm sorry. You didn't tell me anything, which is a bit unfortunate.
No, you're SOL, my friend. Yeah. Get a real graphics card.
One of the paid freedom. Yeah, it should be great, man. I'm looking forward to it.
Yeah, but those, those media front-end boxes are nice little boxes, man. They, you know, they
didn't need for it. Some people don't want to record shows, so, you know, they have their
videos that they pull down, or for big torn, or whatever, you know, or rip DVDs or whatever,
and they just want to pull them up and watch them. It's perfectly fine for that.
What's the status of HDMI and Linux? Like it is. It works.
It works. Yeah, it works. Yeah, it works. You got a lot of yellow over it. It works.
Nice. You know, HDMI is actually a pretty nice cable, you know, what it is.
It's kind of like a next-gen colax cable. The problem is that they're implementing
encryption and copy protection on it. What things, those copy protection schemes on the cable,
it blows chunks, you know. Yeah. Now, DRM is crap, you know.
But the camera itself and the technology is nice.
Yeah. Or is it cheap? That's all they have.
Has your Dell got it? Yeah, you bought it. You bought the XDS, didn't you?
My laptop? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I have my laptop for a year. It's got an HDMI connection. It works.
Yeah. Yeah. I've never tried one. I didn't spend the extra $600 to get the blue right
player in one there. But still. Oh, that's ridiculous. Yeah.
You know, I have an HD DVD player. I paid like, I don't know, 170 bucks.
And then after a bit the bullet, they kick back another 50. Plus I got like, I don't know, 12 movies
for free, whatever. I don't know. That's all right. Yeah. It's an upscaling DVD player.
I just, I don't know. I have no desire to rush out and get a blue ray player.
The parties don't seem to be coming down very much.
And I don't know. I don't know if this is going to be around.
What is it? Say it's three. If you were in the market for a game,
that's fair enough. Don't spend that money and get the blue right player. It makes it worthwhile.
I know that shit. So I'm not going to be getting one. Yeah. I just, I have no desire to rush on,
get a blue ray player. Isn't physical media just pretty much dead anymore?
That's the thing. You know, how long is this stuff going to be around?
Well, a couple of years, maybe. But if you're talking, if you're asking that to this panel,
yeah, that's two minutes almost dead. But had you said that and mom and dad were standing here,
that side, well, what else is there? And there's a lot of moms and dad there,
you know, my sisters say they can't believe they go home after they come here and they might get
one or two movies from some grouply or, you know, I won't say where they're getting from.
But then they forget. No, probably better off getting one of those,
one of those Roku boxes and just watching the streaming videos from Netflix.
Well, for them, it's still easy to get a video place to shop and just hire one.
All right. I don't know. Best blockbuster video, which is one of the,
the oldest video places, chains in North America. They're going down the tubes, man. They're
closing a shitload of stores recently. They're just not making money. They're too expensive.
Again, so Netflix. The problem cost. Yeah, direct TV. They're doing a pretty good job on your
on demand. I have their, what they thought from movie that well, it depends. Most of the stuff
so far is free. Probably like rentals. Well, they have like five or six pay-per-view movies a
month that are free. And then if you want to buy them on demand, it's probably like three or four
bucks. That's one thing. When I used to have direct V-main, I used to get coupons for free rentals.
All the time, like every other month, I get a free movie. The cable companies never do that.
Well, mine won't do it either. They're, even though I have direct TV, because they told me there's
no competition in the area, so they don't have to. If you live in an area that other things are
available, you know, like Comcast cable or whatever, then they'll send you coupons just to keep you
as a customer. Well, one annoying thing that the cable companies are doing, cable, they transmit
the digital feed with cam, you know, QAM. They're basically, they're starting to encrypt everything,
except the over-the-air channels, you know, the regular network channels, all six stations,
whatever. That's about it. Literally from like, I run from like 30 HD stations in the clear
to like overnight to like six. But you can do over-the-air. The over-the-air HD is pretty good,
supposedly. If you're close enough to the transmitters, you can get a really nice picture.
That's how I get on mine, Pat. All mine come over the air. Yeah, TV. TV,
beeps, dash, t, threshold. So you use what the Europeans do, basically? Well, yeah, yeah, we use
the same system, I think. That's all digital. Yeah, all digital with all the major broadcasters,
broadcasters, standard definitions, and or have high definition channels as well. We get, I think,
now about 15 for the air digital TV channels, and half of them are high definition.
That's not too bad. Yeah, we get about six. Yeah, when I say that, a lot of them broadcast the same
shit on, you know, three different streams. But we also get the electronic programming guide broadcast
with it for four weeks. Right, right. The DVB system, you have the guide embedded into the picture.
Yeah, in the transport stream. Well, I think you have now an extension. Yeah, we got to get our
guide information from somewhere else. Yeah, you've got to pay that money. Yeah, we get $20,000
a year though. Nah, good value. It's not that bad. Yeah, that's why you're going to have to get
the PVR 1212, man. That thing is a breakout box, and it's an encoder box. It does age 264.
I'm going to fly via a component. So that'll work with everything. That'll work with satellite
boxes, cable boxes, whatever. And that will be supported by default. Next time you see a
fail for the PVR 1212, buy it. I ordered an HD home run. That's a pretty cool. That's
a dual tuner camp box. Yeah, that has that has my feet. And it's actually just more or less
plug-and-pike with myth TV. Plug it in and it just... Pretty much, yeah. It shows up in the setup.
The funny thing about that, that's manufactured in New Zealand from what I understand, and
has been available over in the States. We've gotten those hell on, and there's only just become
available in Australia, so it worked. That makes no sense. But there's New Zealanders for you,
but I won't say nothing. Hey, they're looking to make a nice little part box. I'm going to have a sheep.
Actually, I was going to say Jake, the son told me Jake the other day. He said, what do you call
a New Zealander with two sheep under each, one sheep under each arm? And I said happy, and he said no,
yeah. Say the punch line, then you cut out. I can't remember who it was. In the chat, he said,
what do you call a New Zealander with a sheep under each arm? And I said happy, and he said no,
a pimp, but I don't know if that's a pretty good one. Oh, look, this looks like a very beautiful
country. I love the golden point. Well, there in Australia, I love the golden point of some time.
There you go. What do you call a sheep type to a lump post? Right, a leisure center.
Well, speaking of sheep, we better move on to the command of the week. I would you like that
segway? That's good. What is command of the week? That's spelled capital C, capital O,
little T for 10, capital W, which is pretty cool. If you squint your eyes, it looks like cow.
Yeah. What's an egg clever? I just clever, but you could just omit the completely
inch command of week, and then have it be cow. Yeah, but then you wouldn't get the T for 10.
Radio. Got you. You've been an arty bluehead teacher. You know that sort of shit.
Yeah, you think so. How did you get that job?
I can't my way into that. Well, claw two dazzle us with your command.
I have to use a first. Yeah, you have to set the standard.
Okay. Well, I use probably a lot of people know the PS command, right? The, you know, just when
you want to see what processes are running and stuff like that, you do PS, and then a series
of different flags, and that the flags that I use on it the most are F-A-X, and what this does,
or even if you want a lot of information, you can do F-A-U-X, and that'll show you lots of
the columns that numbers and confusing abbreviations. But the important one for me is the F,
and that's F as in Frank, we're actually full, because it's showing you all the,
it's showing you the processes that you're running, and then it also shows you the children
of those, you know, which, which process is a child of what other, you know, parent process.
So it's really kind of nice. You do it, and it kind of looks like a, you know, if you can imagine
like a family tree or something, or a flow chart, it kind of looks like that. And it's very clear
as to, okay, so I've launched, you know, this session of a, of a, of a terminal, and in this terminal,
I'm running, you know, some command, and this command is invoking, you know, another little
application, things like that, so you get a really good breakdown of all the stuff that you're
running. What was that? Okay, so I'm going to go to, and then it's like a dog. All right,
as long as I run, okay. It's different for people to see around here. A quick little bonus
command from the same, you know, PS thing is something that actually Monster B pointed out to me.
Last night when we were talking about this, and it's PS-P, and then $2 signs. And I have no
idea what any of that stamps works that didn't bother looking it up, but what it does show you
is what show you are currently running. So you might think, oh, well, why don't I just do an
echo dollar sign shell, right? Well, that tells you what your environment is set, you know,
what your default shell is set in your environment, not necessarily what show you're actually running
right now, because maybe you switched over to some other show. So PS, space, dash, P, and then $2
signs. We'll show you your actual currently running show, and then the PS-FAUX will give you all
the information you could ever want to know on the processes that you are running. Thank you.
Very nice. Peter 64.
It is just so many to me. It's like, but my first one that I want to talk about was one that I've
been mucking around with. There a bit. It's HW info. Now, you may have to install this.
I'm not sure if it comes as a default application on, I think it does with this, but it wasn't with
art. And once again, there's a hell of a lot of different switches. The first one you can,
and what this is going to just tell everything about its information on the hardware in your computer.
If you run like HW info, space, dash, dash, short, it'll give you a short list of all the hardware.
Now, if you leave the short out, you're going to get pages and pages of information. Now, specifically,
okay, for instance, for me, I was genuinely talked about UDev Rules the other day. I was setting up
UDev Rules for an infrared remote control. Now, I needed to know the mod alias of this thing when
I plugged it in. And there's several ways of getting that. And one of them was to run
the HW info, space, dash, dash, keyboard, because this thing registered as a USB keyboard and mouse
when I plugged the infrared receiver in. And then I was able to look up and find out what the
mod alias is and use that in my UDev Rule. And therefore, now when I plugged this thing in,
it registers as an input device. I am infrared remote. And it'll always create that
simling every time I plug this in. Therefore, I can now use that with work. So, anyway, just to have
a look at all of the hardware and your computers worth running. And there's a lot of switches,
like I said, so run HW info, space, dash, dash, help. And it'll give you, like, you can run,
you know, BIOS and, and, uh, network and all these other, uh, commands after it, just to see.
Have a play with that. Is this like a shell script that someone, like, put together, or is it,
is there an application all on its own? Ah, glad to. I'm not sure. All I can tell you is that,
uh, it was on my MISBOX. But when I wanted to play with it on Arch, I had to install it. So,
I don't know what it is, sorry. Yeah, I'm kind of poking around for it in Slackware. And I'm,
I just finding a lot of results that I can't really identify if it's exactly what you're talking
about. But it sounds like a pretty neat little command. Um, I'll tell you now, I'm going to run it on
Hannah Montana Linux. So, you've got to build into that. Sweet. Hannah Montana Linux is pre,
pre fully packed. So, it's probably on there by default. Okay. And guess what? Get the lock
and then pop them going, man. Yeah, it's not. So, there you go. I'd have to install it on
Hannah as well. Yeah, it's not undead. You can buy default either. I want to say it's like some kind of,
you know, ad users, like a little sort of like a, I guess technically it's the shell script or
something invoking user ad. I'm just wondering if it's something like that because it sounds,
I mean, doesn't it sound like it's taking like LFPCI and CPU info and, you know, some of these
things and kind of like, you can run them all together. Yeah, you know? Yeah. Either way, it sounds
neat. I just wish I could find it. It's actually the one that you're using. I guess I'll look for it
on the arch site and then try to figure out where I can get it from myself. Yeah, I can't recall
ever running a dumpster there. So, yeah, I don't mind. So, quick show your hands around the room.
Who's going LLF? My hands are raised. My hands are raised. My hands are up. My hands down.
As is mine. I have two things sticking up right now. One's my arm.
I only have one sticking up and it's not my arm. Just how does it fit into the new statement anyway?
Yeah, we're getting a beam. What's going on here?
I'm going to put me in the bed. I'm staying at night. No, no, you've got to take a beam. I'll give you
a king of all commands, pal. Come on. Come on. Give us a command.
Grap is the king of all commands. What is the search out phrases? Yeah. G-R-E-P-Grap.
Grap is very useful if you're doing like an L-S-Mod or D-Message or, you know, any command what
you do is you put a pipe in there and then you'll do a Grap space and then a string that you want
to search for. So an example would be say you have a capture card, a hop art capture card.
It uses the IVTV module. What you could do is you could type D-Message, type Grap IVTV and you'll
see all the entries coming back related to that. Very useful for searching stuff when you're doing
some commands. Even more useful sometimes is Grap-I to make a case
insensitive so that if you are searching for, you know, you know, like, sort of, today,
leave a abbreviation or whatever that you're looking for but you're not sure how it's going to be,
you know, capitalized and stuff, just to adapt to that. You learn how to use Grap-Man,
you will be a command line master. Yeah, it's true. Yeah, even Grap, or you use Grap sometimes
just to go back and grab the logs of the lineage cranks I see when I know someone has mentioned
a command or something. Yeah. Grap, Grap Sposh, Dash, Capital H, little in, I think it is,
then quotes put in the typically, I put in J-Linty because I know he's usually the one who said it
and if it'll go and it'll spit out everything that J-Man has said. So yeah, a really handy command.
You really like J-Linty, don't you? Can I make that?
I'm meeting. Where is the J-Man? Why can't I sleep at night now and he's not in lineage cranks?
He was making us today too. The question is, who's going to be Dan Watchko's new man
creature in all of us this year? Big wall. No, no. I already got threatened with a mouthraping.
So are we taking a pool to see how Dan is going to be drunk beyond comparing a non-function?
The next morning in time for his talk. What's the point? I think we have to.
I think we have to. Hey, Peter, he didn't learn his lesson.
I'm going to say goodnight, you've immune me. Dan, be not in fact.
We have answers to go now. I'll see you there.
All right, see you later. How are you? How are you?
I love Walmart. Good night.
Good night.
Nice, no pot later. Well, that was interesting.
That was like, like, like, I did a chat. He doesn't like a chat, huh?
Now, because he probably ran into bloody hiding the last time he got sent there.
No comment. I forgot about art. He's been in the bin for like a half an hour.
He likes it in there. He just kicks back, kind of settles in.
What's your command of the week, Art?
I'm passing.
Pegwall?
Artim-RF. Don't run it.
Oh, I'm not even putting it in.
I'm not even putting it in.
He's showing them on.
Someone would do it.
That's why I said, don't do it.
330, just disconnected. He tried it.
He's going to bed.
Did he go to bed?
Yeah, he did.
Makes sense when I said in the chat, or I'll know.
I haven't actually left my room.
Yeah, right.
Oh, and my command is df-h.
This command reports how much free space is available for each mount you have.
That's all kinds of handy.
It is. And what does the dash fight you do?
It prints the sizes in human readable format, like kilobytes, megabytes, or gigabytes.
Is that the lowercase h-ring capital h?
Lowercase. I learned that lesson last night.
What does the capital h do?
It's got something to do with instead of using a 1,024 B2U as a 1,000 or something.
Yep, yeah.
Like around a gallon or something.
I'm not sure what the actual heart rate is.
Well, when I come to the heart rate, they go and mark it as a gig,
but they're only using a 1,000 B2U so they're ripping off.
They just rather know the truth, like the 1024 rather than, you know, I would rather know
the real number myself, but I guess people don't care so much, I don't know.
But yeah, that's a great command.
I do that obsessively.
Quite a bit of information, h-w-info.
It is actually, this is why it's installed on Zeus.
HHW-info is the hardware detection tool used in Zeus Linux.
They must have no veil must have something to do with writing it.
Hey, try a dash-dash CPU on that hardware info, HW-info.
On hand or on arch, it doesn't matter.
On arch, it doesn't matter.
It just shows you all the features of your process.
Oh, yeah, that tells you everything.
It really is a handy to me and to know.
Backware doesn't have any of those cool commands.
Backware is stupid.
Let me post this in the chat room so you guys can see.
This is just like just two lines of it.
There's actually like 20 lines of output, but I thought the features was kind of handy.
I won't read them all, but it shows stuff like, you know, P-A-E and 3D now, MMX.
Yeah, and you'll see there that it says module I-L-Y-S.
And that's one of the things you need to refer to like when you write those U-Dev rules.
But we always have been for me.
All this information could be found in SlashSist or SlashProc, I would assume, right?
Well, yeah, that's right.
So CatProc input, keyboard or whatever it is, will spit out probably one tenth of the information
the single spit-F.
Yeah, have to go, then use that time U-Dev, U-Dev admin or U-Dev info or whatever to get another
one tenth of it.
And with this, it just, the worst thing about this is it bombards you with information.
And if you specifically don't know what you wanted to look, what you were looking for,
you know, you might give you too much.
Right, yeah.
And that's where the grip comes in handy.
You can start.
Yeah, exactly, yeah.
If Cat hadn't left, you would have been around for that tie-in,
for that wonderful union of command, so you're just a scarred.
I think HW info is a pro program.
I'll bet you anything.
And I bet I can find it on D-Pan or something like that.
Well gentlemen, I'm going to take this time and hop off here and say goodbye.
Well, goodbye, Peg-Wall.
Good day, I'm Peggy.
You guys take it easy.
That'll be a nice day, Peg-Wall.
And since Peggy's leaving, I'm going to wrap this up.
I think so.
I think another tip is in the can.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night, everyone.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
Good night, Peggy.
One great life's a great life.
Try and change this view.
And pay all I've is a fly.
Then hold it, except for anytime.
In love with the costumes and planes.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
And fly again.
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shoo
Shooooo
Shoooo
Shooooo
Shooooo
Shooo
We are sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over to C-A-R-O dot N-T for all of us in need.
