Episode: 301
Title: HPR0301: News Cast Ep0
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0301/hpr0301.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 15:54:30

---

Um.
Ok,
Until next time.
Bye-bye.
Hack a public radio newscast. Hi Hack a public radio listeners and welcome to a short
episode on things happening in and around the Linux and open source community and your
host Finix. If you haven't heard through the usual community jungle drums, Ubuntu is
named the next plan release of its ever popular distribution.
910 will be named Karmic Koala. Markshaw or Wethon Adams this week. Karmic Koala will be released
in October of 2009. In front of you that are unsure about Ubuntu's version numbering works this
way. The year makes the first part of the number and the month makes the second part of the
version number. Hence 2009 makes the 9 and October makes the 10. Which promises of clouds
computing being supported, there should be a very interesting release.
Also over in the UK petition has been launched over at petitions.number10.gov.uk asking the
Prime Minister to look at adopting free and open source operating systems in UK schools.
The petition states the following, the only vector recommended operating systems for schools
is Microsoft Windows, but there are several reasons why this is not the best choice
for use in an education environment. Firstly the vast majority of malware exists for Windows.
Secondly the cost of a Windows computer may prevent some learners from having one at home
which is compatible with the ones they use at school. Thirdly Windows restricts the
user's choice of settings as languages and characters supported based on an addition broad.
Finally Windows doesn't is not designed for education.
For those reasons it is believed that the primary OS used in school should be a free and
open source alternative. Many operating systems that are more secure than Windows are available.
Although there is currently only one specifically designed for education.
Many of these systems are Linux based and so there are alternatives to many Windows software
available and where there is not it is even possible to run Windows applications.
If any UK citizen is wishing to read up or sign the petition, the new URL is
http, colon, fault slash, fault slash, petitions.number10.gov.uk, fault slash non-ms schools.
And finally our very own special 33 goodies first ever hate mail.
Congratulations dude, wherever so proud. It's with regards to his HPR 299 episode which I think
is starting to become quite infamous on Twitter. I'll link to his blog post in the show notes.
I'd also like to finish up with events. If any listener wants to,
they use a group's meetings or events to be mentioned, then drop me in line and I'll read them
at the end. You can catch me at Finix, thelinuxsociety.org.uk, that's Finix, at thelinuxsociety.org.uk.
Same goes if there's a story or anything you want mentioned.
So this is the first show during events that I have for you, the local to my community here in
Dundee, Scotland. On Thursday, 26th of February, Mr. Robert Swifty Ladyman will be talking about
squid at the University of Arbitite, Arbitite, Dundee, Linux Society, 7pm. The talk is open to
everyone and details can be found at thelinuxsociety.org.uk, fault slash content, fault slash, squid,
dash, Robert, dash, swifty, dash, Ladyman. Also at thelinuxsociety, Gavin Hendry will be given his
talk about OpenL.replication strategies and more information that talk can be found and the
linuxsociety.org.uk, fault slash content, fault slash, Gavin, dash, Henry, dash, OpenL.dap,
dash, replication, dash strategies. That's all folks, my show notes will be released at thelinuxsociety.org.uk
and on HPR as a comment with this episode. Please feel free to drop me a line or you can
grab me on Twitter. You'll find me on Twitter under the username Finix, which I've spelled F1NUX,
as F1NUX. Thanks for listening and I'll catch you the next day.
