Episode: 204
Title: HPR0204: EC Lug October 9th meeting
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0204/hpr0204.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 13:51:42

---

Ah, uh...
Welcome to this week's music group, today is Thursday, October 9th, this is the second
official start of the program, the program on the theme music, we can do a little music
and we're going to be going to do that right here, oh yes, hello, how are you doing?
Well, how are you doing?
Yeah, that's good, so long for us.
We just started.
We want to start doing the theme before we start talking about Ohio and its best.
Sure, sure.
I just bought a color laser printer.
Oh, we got one?
Yep.
Oh, I didn't know.
Just now.
No, a minute before we left.
45 minutes ago.
Oh, okay.
So you already had it at home?
Oh yeah, I got the super express ship.
You're like only available.
Yeah, actually I downloaded it.
They had a direct download.
Okay, well that's a man.
I just got one of these random buildings.
Is there a new one?
They just mixed two things together and got to download it.
It's just not vertical.
Oh, so it looked pretty good.
It was only 300 bucks.
It does duplexing.
It makes a color laser printer brother.
Oh, god.
It's got wireless, so.
How much are the cartridges?
About the same price in the printer.
So the print.
Well, the initial...
It actually comes out to be about the same rate since.
So it's not that bad.
For full color page.
For full color page.
Oh, that's not bad, really.
So next year we will print your house.
Sure.
8 cents a page.
Okay, I'll ask my work.
Cool.
Anything else?
Not really.
Gary made that circuit board for me that I designed in that software package.
Ego.
Nice.
It looks pretty nice.
For those who haven't seen it.
You get it?
Do do do.
Manly.
Manly.
Manly.
It's etched.
No, it's etched.
Yeah, it starts off with an all copper board.
And then you put it on a chemical that dissolves when it sunlight hits it.
You put it under a lamp and you have a transparency there.
And then you rinse it up with that.
It looks pretty good.
So very nice right now.
Hopefully I can start a couple of fires with this.
It's not burned out my personal trace.
As long as it's outside of your house.
I think it's made okay.
Oh, yeah.
That's about it.
That's about it.
Yeah.
Cool.
Not one is strong.
Not a whole lot.
So we need your back on the job situation.
I should know by tomorrow also.
I thought you already had a job.
Another job?
A temporary job.
A temporary job.
Oh, you have a temporary job.
Oh, okay.
Oh, I hope that it will go well.
Yeah, sure.
It's not that I'll hire you.
I don't have any.
No, Gary will hire you.
You can be drawing blood for me.
Yeah, there you go.
How about the blood sausages?
I'm sorry.
I apologize.
Just give me a chance to learn.
Alright, I know I had a lot of...
Not much.
14?
Any plans for the weekend?
I'm going to try to shop.
That's what boys say there.
That's what all guys want to know every day.
You know, we are going to be there.
Y'all gonna be there. Yep, cool, right?
Um, myself, I am moving all in.
As, uh, my fiancee took a job in, uh, just the side of the city, so we'll be driving back
before it. Which means I got very much trucking, unfortunately, because I was too much to drive.
I'm gonna be getting a nice car. So the price of the gas is going down right now.
So everybody drive your saver now. Yes, so you should be driving a lot.
And that, um, we kind of want to go into machine, got the stores, so we're gonna try to sell
a little more. Just bought some of those, uh, shadow, like, 27 atom-based computers.
Superb item? I don't know. Just, just, just, hopefully, that's cool.
So we're gonna put a boat to hunt everything and because I thought there was a foresight on that,
on the box. What's that? Is it coming with operators too? No, no.
Because I saw that, uh, they're selling Linux on it by the foresight.
I'll read a plot on it on the bare bones. Okay.
Don't want me to put all the water on there.
So that's water? What do you say? What do you sell it for?
Uh, happy to hear that. Okay. Okay, don't, don't, don't sell any MDAs to me, please.
Anyway. Don't tell me any MDAs. Yeah. What's an MDA?
Nah, I'm the exposure to you, man.
Oh, please, you can tell, but you can't sing in the middle of it.
Nah, I can't sing in the middle of it.
Yeah. You're gonna have to kill me with this.
Oh, I'll just give all that. I don't know. I don't know. I haven't calculated everything.
Hopefully I know the chase you know.
Cool. Uh, did, uh, that person, uh, gather, uh, the duplicator, gather his mind?
Yep. Cool. Yeah, he stopped down and he grabbed it when he saw it.
He did a pretty nice job. He does sing. He did a nice.
Sorry. I got rid of all the man's soul.
Yeah. I tweeted his whole horn. How good he was and uh, he was happy too.
So it was probably mutual happiness.
Yep. Hopefully I'll do it. We'll just go next year.
Yep. Yep. Cool.
And we have you guy here. Yeah.
Carlos.
Adding what Todd said, uh, we just got those little chattel computers.
Uh, in order to keep pushing, uh, a boom tool in it, we got, uh, say, 47 point two inches LCD.
So we can actually just don't tell people that it's easy because we can actually show it to people.
Um, probably hadn't played with it for a little bit.
So they can realize that it's not hard to use it.
Well, yeah, that's pretty much it.
It's very nice. But I saw that you guys have the, uh, the flyer on your store,
both Linux user group. Yeah. Very nice. Thank you.
And some people stop by and read about it. Yeah.
Some people actually ask. They win.
Sometimes they stop and I, you try to just, you know, tell them, oh,
you just want to better or something like that.
But they don't know how to use it.
Oh, I always refer about this group.
And you can go there. You don't really need to know much about it.
They don't teach you there.
Who do you guys like to have some flyers in your store?
As you could do that.
And you know, I refer a lot of people today.
I want to open up a one.
Uh, I refer a lot of people today.
I'm getting some classes at, uh, slow university.
Today was my lecture of open stores.
Say, well, open and systems.
I showed them, uh, before class,
to use Ubuntu.
Yes. Yeah.
Yeah, many.
Many, whoa.
Everyone, before class, they don't know Ubuntu.
Oh, yeah. Now they know how to install that.
It's part of their network.
But you guys are doing this stuff. Actually, there is, uh,
canonical to sponsoring Ubuntu.
But they actually have a course.
And it's, uh, introduction for people who have probably
done no anything about Ubuntu.
It's actually PDF file.
Would you guys be interested in that?
Yeah, I was saying it over.
You put it on the computer images.
Yes, it is, it is as a, like, how to get up and going.
Yes, how to get up to going.
How can other system, uh, uh, really, I'd be interested.
We're, we've seen that before, uh, uh, it used to be on a web.
But I think the image is is broken right now.
So I have a copy on my computer.
Oh, it's fairly large.
It's like, uh, 16, the mag.
It's quite large.
Oh, excuse me?
That's a picture of that.
Yes, yes.
It is about, you know, 50 pages.
It's as a book.
It has a seven chapters.
So it's like how to use a book to all around them.
How to know your computer way.
Have your stuff, uh, which applications you would use for
how do they work, uh, and that you update your computer,
how you maintain your computer.
You know, fairly easy, uh, for regular people.
I have a question.
I probably, I should know by now, at this time,
I think it just came up to my head now.
There, uh, Spanish installation of the book, too.
Yes.
Yeah, when you, when, when you insert it, it tells you
choose the language.
It's choose the language from the installation process
or choose the language for the whole thing.
I think it's for the whole thing.
Yeah, it's still for the whole thing.
Yes.
So then when you,
as long as you download installation packages,
that include
our Spanish vocabulary,
a lot of everything.
We have a small Spanish
title status.
And all what it is, is just there are some supporting files.
So I don't know how to do that.
But I think that you should be able to install
additional locales or languages
on your, on your installation already.
Uh, you would have to look around on how to do it.
But, uh, but those are just additional files.
And then all what do you do?
You just switch to different local.
Yeah.
That's good.
We get about 30% Spanish speaking customer there.
Cool.
That high, huh?
Yeah.
What are everyone's there?
It is because you guys are by close office.
Actually, it's not good for us to be down here
because they can't find their way around town.
Oh, also in our room, you know, our canary or something like that.
Okay.
Cool.
Thank you, thank you.
Oh, thank you.
How about you?
How about you?
How about you?
I have a, uh,
I have to go and play around with some mac ports.
Mac ports?
Um, the Mac port project is pouring on
Alexi Groves and you have it.
Okay.
Where, um,
yeah, I hear sir, it's just, I can't lose his voice.
But, um, I was trying out some network.
Oh, I can't lose you from it.
I actually think that you can put into any, uh, switch,
you can put into a water out there as long as you have to.
It's just what products, what are you, it's something
or read, it's just what we've got to call
and it's over there.
And I'll have to pull that one out and play what
in the name of the switches and what for
on the structure what these means.
It's a great way to say that.
It's a great way.
And just one of the things that we're going to be
is that the open solar is working for you?
Yeah, I haven't played around with him for a while.
So,
do you, do you like him or?
Yeah, I mean, it seems
about saying this is in the gnome, like in the out of gnome.
Like in the other gnome.
Yes, that's the same thing.
It's installed, but you know, the only real back is
that as far as I'm saying, the real back is
with the layers are the process for which
the ZFS is, I think it handles
who is only able to see it.
I was blind to you, but a little like,
they've made me realize that you don't know how
he likes his current access.
Like, you may say, so I think it was a better
thing.
Somebody animals, you can hear him in their hand for me.
Some of them are talking about that being able to make
up what they call it.
Containers.
Well, I mean, I think it's possible to make
anything specific here or somewhere.
I'll say what you're like if you're
running an application server, or if you're
trying to stay up just in that part of it,
so it's okay.
Yep.
Try to go something like this,
see if you can move it over there.
Yep.
Cool.
Anything else?
No, I don't know.
See, I didn't bring you more beer.
I should have.
Yeah, I should have, I don't know.
Cool.
Oh, I'll take them.
What about your beer and that?
You're not good?
Yeah.
Well, probably on Monday, I'm going to bottle again.
It's always going to be through our back.
You already heard something about it?
It's pretty good.
And I'm still alive, so it should be okay.
But I should just be really good.
Is it?
Like, taste any particular kind of beer?
It has a much more taste than any particular kind of beer.
What is so great about, you know,
home brewing that you can make any kind of beer you want,
you know, and I mean, the bad part about it,
that you have to wait, you know,
two or three or four weeks,
you know, for the time it's done.
But I get pretty pissed.
Well, you shouldn't be hydrate, you know.
Here's water in between.
Yeah, oh, there's a saying, relax.
Don't worry, you have a home brew.
And if you don't have a home brew,
you have a commercial brew.
You could stagger the beer.
That actually?
Yes, exactly.
That's why you have to brew every two weeks.
And if it's not enough, then you need to buy more fermenters.
Yeah, it's hard to name brew every day, and then, you know.
That might be a little excessive.
The very voice to concern that I'm already drinking more beer
to get you bottles,
to put your beer in between your beer.
This seems like a really dangerous cycle, so.
Yeah, how's it going?
It's pretty slow.
How do you call it slow?
It's the machine which is going on its own,
but then it joins on.
Oh, we call that.
It's a very special motion.
Very special motion.
Yeah, that's what it is.
That's what it is.
It's nothing perpetual.
It just goes down, and you have empty bottle, and I'll refill it.
No, it won't go forever.
Eventually it'll stop.
When?
One way or the other, it'll stop.
Do you mean when we run out of the hops?
Or?
Yeah, what?
One way or the other, it'll stop.
Oh, okay, well, you guys are a lot of fun.
How about you guys?
We've been doing depth routes, and there's a price list.
So we have cucumber.
Oh, there's the cucumber.
So we have cucumber.
Oh, there's the cucumber.
Oh, that one.
Thank you.
I'm sure like those.
Take a cup of it.
I'm going to get one of those.
It's a bad, it has to be bad too.
That's what I'm going to say.
Oh, I see the big one.
Yeah, I did see you guys.
Well, we're really down.
We're running out of time to finish some of the projects
with the drive-in in the backhouse, so.
It's not going to stay in the 60s and 70s
for very much all of you.
That's right.
We've tried to have a lot of handling,
and that's the best.
Why don't you just have to let me know.
I'll take a couple.
Oh, yeah, well, you can either pass it around
or take them on the way out.
Yeah, I'll see.
I just like, I've rolled on a way out.
You don't have to be playing with your cucumber.
Might not be appropriate here.
So Doug, that taking care of?
Well, not quite.
We're getting close, it's really coming out way.
I thought he could pass it over.
He closed like a month ago.
Well, I'm not going to build these things.
The run turned out to be...
Can I use it for cooling beer?
A lottery?
Probably not.
Oh, Dars.
I think our dip would be more important.
We got a dip, really.
It probably, yeah, it's too warm.
Oh, then, then, ah, that's, that's not good.
You guys should dress that way.
You should find yourself a cave somewhere.
Yes, cave.
Your eggs are a cave.
Absolutely.
Cool.
Well, I didn't do a lot without the bellonix.
I guess, I don't know.
I didn't do it too much.
Planted trip to Ohio.
Planted trip to Ohio.
Planted trip was really long.
I told everybody that everybody needs to register
and didn't register yet.
Somebody didn't register.
I was you.
I didn't register yet.
You can't.
But it was today, fine.
Is it?
Yeah.
Hold on.
I don't have a com there, but I was just a bit
of a registered yet.
So you guys will have to feed me then.
We are waiting to have a webcam.
We've got to be a car.
We've got to be a car.
We're watching those shows.
I know I was watching them, like,
two people from Old Flare.
Why didn't you register?
I didn't know you're waiting.
You're going to register yourself.
You're the one who told us to register.
I know.
Me bad.
Sure, but you see that.
5, 4, 7, 4, 3.
Yeah.
There you go.
You're you're on there.
They actually have a map that shows where everybody is.
I'm sure he's closed.
I wanted to register.
Yeah, I have a clock today.
That's what it's better than sight.
I'll leave.
Why did you reach so long?
I don't know.
Why is this point on?
Ohio lyrics.
I was just printing too many maps.
Just didn't want to get lost.
I printed whatever data.
Doing, you know, the car already registered.
So it doesn't.
If you can, you can go in.
No, that's what I thought.
It said on the main second.
I mean, oh, hey now.
Can you click on there?
Well, we start this off.
Okay, let's look.
I swear, it said it on there.
I was looking at that word.
Last chance to register.
Ohio lyrics best registration will close on Thursday at 5 p.m.
One time.
Corangal scroll scroll.
You're like four four things out.
There you go.
Please long in.
Oh, yeah, as you could see me.
That's good.
Maybe that's fine in register.
So hey, no one has nobody to see.
You could have gave him a bonus.
It's a great car.
Great car.
What do you really people see in you for?
He's not in a car for us.
I wanted to pay 65 dollars of what I read with.
And I wasn't working at 65 dollars to go wander around.
Or is that included in your room?
I, it includes your food and drink.
And four dollars, honestly.
And T-shirt.
And we want to be selling out to the T-shirt to you for about 80 dollars.
Yeah, maybe.
Heard dressed.
I'd tell you a lot of that.
Okay, well,
we might splash down to 75.
Fashionable package there.
You would get the O.D.I.
I was like number one in that.
Yeah, so many lunches over there.
So that's why it's so cool.
Well, that, that was about me.
See, maybe I should actually write it down what I'm doing.
How old are you?
Do you remember what we were doing?
Me?
Yes.
Well, I haven't done very much.
But I got a question, of course.
Yes.
Do you know how to vote?
Well, now why?
Why didn't I come up every week?
I may have asked this before, but I'm putting this this computer
together for the neighbors who just want to go on the internet
and just want to do email.
Would you use a boom tour?
Would you use one of those simpler ones?
Yeah, a little icons at the bottom.
Let's say like GOS.
Yeah, is that simpler and more?
You can pull a proof or not.
You can put icons on of this top here too.
If that's what you care about.
So you take this guy, you just double click on it and you drop it on this.
Well, no, yeah, I know I realize that.
So that's what you want icons on the bottom.
Well, I'll drag it here on the bottom and it can be icon on it.
Oh, but do you remember that?
The big nice bar across the bottom.
You can't do that in Ubuntu, huh?
You can't get a doubt of that too.
I think Ubuntu is good choice and if they want to have a document, it's so dark.
I say install whatever you're comfortable with because you're probably going to be
going to be the textbook on it.
Yeah, I know, that's what I'm saying.
You can hit the door up.
I have no idea how long before I look like.
All right, let's hit that.
It's big.
Yes, just the hat.
Possibly yes.
So, okay, now that's it.
I didn't do much.
That wasn't too much.
No, I didn't practice your wallet.
No, I didn't.
My wallet is fine.
Wherever you go, two bolts together and bring them over will give us time.
No two bolts.
There's more than just the three or four.
Cool.
That's very reassuring.
All right, good.
I showed you what I want to go.
You did?
But, apparently, you want to think that I'm made of tension or what was it where?
I have some kind of structure.
They tell me that it was like a shelf of supporting
none right now.
All right, way far away from that.
Oh yeah.
So, just keep on practicing.
We had to keep on tracking.
Talking about beer.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Well, you know, you do welding first and then you get beer.
That's a guy, you know.
Get me empty box.
All right, you're like, what'd you do?
I can't talk about what I did because I was on the dark side.
Oh, okay.
Well, let's get out of here.
That's just a by chance me.
Really don't want to know what I did in California.
Did you enjoy yourself?
Ah, that was all right.
Was it all right?
Did you learn a lot or not?
Yeah.
You did.
Not a lot.
Learned a lot.
The dark side is becoming more and more like our side.
What was that being?
Almost every snazzy little speech they tried to show us on this, there was
relatable to something that existed already in Linux or Mac.
But there are a few things that Linux needs to work on in comparison.
You know, Linux is really good for end user.
It's hard for a business to do business-wide security.
It's not as straightforward.
But otherwise...
I don't know about that.
First of all, it's a good thing that lots of enterprise service.
First of all, it wouldn't give you a nickel food window security.
Miles.
It's good, I'm better.
It's, yeah, it's the best thing that I don't talk right now.
I just did come back from, wait, but we could brainwash itself.
Did they do some of that or is it more just education?
Or is it more like...
Oh, no, it's not, it's like not a Microsoft course.
It's just, the guys there are teaching,
certification, teaching, you know.
It was a good course.
I mean, you know, it was up to 60 hours that week,
because training for the two tests.
Did you take the test?
You did okay?
All right.
Good.
Yeah, it makes me feel better about having a company paid seven hotel for you.
Yeah, it's a fail, isn't it?
Well, it's a little better.
Get back to the well!
There's too much time to bring it over all your money.
I would feel better about that.
Yeah, I would feel better.
Yeah, it's good to do something for, you know.
They send you there and you pay all your money.
So did you see a seal at the Fisher?
What is it?
Fisherman's work?
Water?
No, you know, I went out of the ocean, but the ocean...
is cold, and it was cold that day, overcast.
So I didn't spend too.
I drove down to Santa Cruz.
I didn't go down to Santa Cruz.
So you wanted to see Santa Cruz, uh, operation company.
Who's that?
SCO.
No, but okay, the one cool thing about that was,
I was in San Jose.
So my driving directions were,
okay, take a left Yahoo.
Go pass, go pass Intel.
If you see the AMD building, you've gone too far,
and don't hit Nvidia.
Yeah, this goes over the airflows out there?
Yeah, everything is within literally just a couple
of little mile area.
You have the entire tech industry.
Yeah, I mean Citrix, AMD, Intel, Nvidia.
Yeah, uh,
Lost I see Yahoo.
Wow, I see Google, I'm more than Googleist.
Oh, it looks kind of like a giant.
Yeah, they have a, are they out there too though?
Google in that area?
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, it was just like in the building they're having our
training at, you know, every day was just different
tech seminars that would come through.
I mean, just everything was in that building though.
So yeah, part was kind of cool.
I didn't have much time to go around and do any
sites and techs on Sunday.
That and I got a little sports card from around it.
So I was like, what's going on?
I didn't get to say this, of course, normally.
What a California answer to that?
All sports cards.
Yeah, absolutely.
So that's it.
All right, it was pretty good.
All right.
Uh, how about that?
Well, you guys, you need to shout because we
need to have a microphone.
How much over here?
I tried desktop Linux again for the first time in a while.
And it ended in a massive hardware driver failure.
3D acceleration has never worked for me.
And HDMI was quite interesting in the way of Linux
handles it, because it never got it right.
And I got it wrong in so many different ways, different times.
So it was more amusing than anything else.
But in that, I ordered a laptop, which I'll hopefully use Linux on.
But I haven't got any of this for you tomorrow.
What do you order it from?
The private auction.
Oh, okay.
Just for the cheap one.
Okay.
Something off.
It's up to me.
All right, that's good.
Welcome here.
Thank you.
And the quality laptop.
Nice.
What are you down here?
And I hope you have windows on.
24 of them for you guys.
And put a bunch on it.
We'll need 3D acceleration works on it.
And just pray now if you're going to have to kind of get
the last required to boot.
What?
The ultimate.
One of the works.
Everything out of the box.
Everything looks like it's full of intelligence.
One thing that I want to throw on my search for.
Okay.
With the model for you.
It's a HP EV 2915 off NR.
It's an X-30100 graphics.
Intel wireless.
Everything works.
If that one isn't working.
And when full compass is running,
it's the video playback.
But everything else works fine.
That's it for me.
Whoop.
Oh, Mr. Adam.
I can't talk about the things that I've done this week.
Oh, okay.
So we have done there.
I've been ordered to silence.
Wes.
Who ordered me to silence?
You did.
I did.
I don't remember.
I didn't play with the few things and someone
claimed them for the user letter and told me they could talk.
That's what it is.
You always sell the beans.
That's all what it is.
Other than that, I just feel like it really did
doing is that
playing the product can figure it or read it back
with the hands of the player.
It's pretty simple.
You start with the, there's some more bands
that you're going to be able to automate.
My name is set up some of them.
You're back now.
It's whatever.
Cool.
Cool.
So, uh,
I was not even going to talk about it.
Oh, I got those bit cards working.
That's pretty cool.
Do you remember you're recording right now?
Yeah, I was downloading files from my friends.
Oh, yeah.
Just the Linux.
I saw files.
I know.
Exactly.
Yes, yes.
And that's why your neighbor wants to have the
boot to computer.
Is he?
Yeah.
Good man, Charles Brown.
Good.
Good.
Yeah.
We are.
Oh, I was talking, uh, to
what is his name?
What does he look like?
I was talking to Ben that we will be probably looking for
different place.
So we will be probably
moving from here.
Uh, and one place was duties, which is possible.
Where is it?
That's on the water street.
That's where all camaraderie used to be.
Uh, they have a backroom, they have projector.
I was there once, I don't know, year ago.
And, uh, the same was that, well, I didn't spend a lot of time there.
But, uh, I didn't see, uh, VGA port on the projector.
But maybe they have it.
I just, you know, didn't spend a lot of time.
We got cables that go through VGA and SGA.
Yeah, I saw the regular three-prong, you know,
like projector.
So I think I got one of the cables later on.
Well, that's like four, four RGA things.
I think that would be pretty good.
Uh, yeah, but there's actually two different types.
I think mine had the ones we returned them in, and they pushed them in and twist them.
They're like blocking ones.
That's actually a different type of thing.
Oh, it is.
P and Cs, that's what they work.
They sometimes put the RC8 plugs on them.
They sometimes put the normal plugs.
They're the same signal, but one of them, the sink is merged with the green channel.
And the other type, the sink is not merged.
That's where it has four wires.
The thing is, what's coming out of your, uh,
VGA port does not have the sink merged with the green,
but virtually everything else uses the sink width degree.
So unless you have a projector that explicitly takes that signal,
they might not match up properly.
This doesn't even have that option, does it?
This is a studio.
Actually, it might.
Because there's actually that input has the RGB and the sink wire.
So you can get an adapter that goes directly from that to those four wires.
Well, let's not worry about that until we know all the details, uh.
And it's the sun more.
Yeah.
So if somebody else has any other suggestion
or meeting place,
the way it is to...
Is that somebody called the Irish place?
The Irish place.
I think it is the Irish pub right now.
So if they serve the ear and some drinks,
um, you know, I'd like to probably go to a school library,
but they didn't sell the cell.
You know, that camaraderie, that burned down, didn't it?
And then they rebuilt it?
Yes.
It's quite different than it used to be.
Yeah, I remember it used to be kind of an old rickety building.
If they don't have John Wayne doing it,
he already liked it.
He did, I hope so.
Yeah.
So we got six to go there.
Feeling thinking I wonder about it.
Thursday nights,
during sport, sport, you know, season.
Well, maybe we'll have to meet on Wednesday,
or, you know, Tuesday, or Friday.
Well, I think we're on Monday.
We're in the back of the room.
Yeah, let's make our home.
Yeah, let's make our home.
Yeah, let's make our home.
Put them all in there.
Did you talk to them or
you just, I, it's not, I couldn't talk right now to them,
but how do they rent it?
Or do they, you also, you're going to buy beer or what?
You, you do not have to pay any money for that.
So what do you need to do?
We need to put your, so we need to reserve it.
We need to reserve it.
So you reserve it once a week.
Okay.
So they're just hoping they'll sell you some beer.
Most likely.
So no, no, no problem.
How far can you reserve it?
Excuse me?
How far can you reserve it in advance?
You say that we are going to be there every weekend.
Okay, the hour works.
And probably sometimes it's like a first come first serve.
We only reserve one week in advance.
And then somebody else jumps in there.
Too bad.
It was tough.
Well, then probably you don't have to reserve it.
So if somebody knows about some other place, you know,
hopefully you won't have there.
I got another bar.
If you go too low, you get much letting stuff.
And it's a good thing.
It's just a tiny bar.
That's my secret.
Then we'll see if we ever get bumped more.
Yeah, I can't.
We're ready to say it right now.
We'll see it.
I like him cheating.
Probably shouldn't elaborate on the topic right now.
Should he?
Not ready.
Okay, okay.
So let's let it not be kicked out.
Let's let's find a steady place.
How about that?
Cool.
Yeah, well, yeah, I mean, I think it's okay.
No problem.
I'm just trying to think about it.
I think I'm more concerned about like what fire in the spring,
you know, it would be the kind of the regular.
Yeah, that's why I think I don't think too.
And I think that, you know,
if you talk to owner, if I talk to owner and say,
you know, we meet every week and it's on, you know, schedule.
So, yeah, cool.
Cool.
So when are we not welcome here anymore?
No, we are always welcome here.
Oh, okay.
It's, you know, this place has been very nice to us.
We've been doing it for over two years.
And yeah, I'm not really moving that changing ownership.
And, you know, you don't know exactly what is the intention
of the new ownership, so.
Okay, okay.
Cool.
All right, now we better rehash the way we're going to get
down to the Ohio Festival, you think?
Yeah, the pipeline.
I, I, that's the yellow grid road.
Purple.
Yeah, we'll talk about that after that afternoon.
You know what?
We'll talk about how we're getting to Ohio later.
Since most people are 70% of the people here, don't we?
Well, they might be just excited about that.
So, who's going to see anyone like waving their hands?
Like, does anybody else want to happen?
Or are we going to get there?
No.
Well, you know, you, you come twice on the other side.
He gave us all the gear.
We have the power converter.
We have GPS, we have GPS charger.
We have the only thing what he did, what he didn't give us
was the espresso machine.
Yes, one.
Yes, one.
Hey, hey, hey.
You know what, I'm chasing the army.
I brought the order.
Well, I was in college.
We loaded up two cases of beer and hit the road.
We didn't have all this other thing.
Well, it was easy then.
That's what you're going for.
I'm telling you, no, that's why I have a backup
and I printed the paper copies.
I know, where's your signature?
That's true, you know?
Yeah.
How big is that for making our own three-man turn?
Five gallons.
So, we could fit that in the back and bring it
and we can set up a booth, sort of.
You know, the booths are over like 75 bucks.
Is it?
Yeah.
You would know because you didn't register.
That was very easy, it's true.
But, you know, I'll snake in.
So, who is going on this exhibition?
You, you two?
Yep.
And Shadow Bay.
Okay.
Well, really, you know, we wanted to see you go
because you can vote if our car would be our guy.
That's a good car, too.
Yeah, because you don't need free.
Yeah, no gas money.
Yes.
Now, we do just attract too many inner city people
who want to throw up.
It's the munchies they want to throw up.
Right.
That's right.
Yeah.
Whoo!
Newsletter.
What about newsletter?
Wow, we're on the ball tonight.
Well, I'm getting tired of one of our better shows.
805.
805?
Oh, two minutes of fame.
Hey, somebody calls me.
What do they call you?
Yeah, hey, we are here.
How do you call somebody out there?
Well, because you say somebody's home.
Okay, here's somebody else.
Somebody's supposed to say hi to me.
Yes.
Oh, okay, you are talking to them.
So, let's go back.
Get off me.
Oh, no.
When I was printing the maps,
I was in Ohio and they have ads there.
And one of them was divorce in Ohio fast.
Orson, what?
Ohio, what?
Fast.
Oh.
But I didn't put on it.
You have a little moral trouble.
Is that when you get there?
I suggest you something.
I don't know.
Is he in Ohio?
I don't know.
But he can wow.
So, it does good.
So, what do we have here?
Oh, there was a Linux 17.
You didn't set up your resolution, right?
We can't read that.
It's okay.
You guys are going to read.
All right.
There we go.
That's going to be better.
Good enough.
You got a bit of glasses.
Did somebody read about that?
Well, I just read the highlights there.
So tough.
It's just that it's turned 17.
That's all I read.
Oh, okay.
I never really got that.
Midics 1.1.
I never heard of that.
Don't install it.
Leave it existing.
Is that all you have to do?
Yeah, Midics is still there.
I think two something levels.
Just like a two.
It's pretty basic.
But you can do things with it.
They're quite interesting.
Like a DOS or like the shell more like?
No, they actually, there's a Midics X version now.
Oh, there is.
Don't try.
No, I'm not.
Midics is a micro-carnel, isn't it?
Yeah, it's a micro-carnel.
And it's, I mean, it's very unique.
I mean, you really wouldn't know the difference.
Because some of the commands, the arguments are different
for the commands and things like that.
But you know, Linux, you can use Midics.
Actually, the old installation discs
for some of the early distributions of
Linux booted off a Midics kernel for the installation discs.
I guess we are done with this.
17 and we're still hungry.
There was another article about Picasso 3.
For Linux, Picasso 3 was for Windows for some time.
And this is beta, like anything from Google.
I actually installed it.
I think it's fine, you know, saying that it can read raw.
But I thought it could read well before.
That it has a facial recognition, which, you know,
how many people I have there.
So you can recognize four faces.
I've had that for 26 years.
And if I cannot do it, you know, I'm done.
What else is there?
Ah, but they take up that part of their license
will fit 88 to put on here as far as ours forever.
I didn't know I'd read this.
I'm a scaryer and scaryer.
Like they're recognizing the people
out of the pictures you take and presume
that we're going to be able to, like,
implement that.
Big brother, 1984.
We're doing it with a video now, too, I guess.
So again, or you can, it'll do the recognition.
And then I'll give you some stuff.
Actually, let me tell you one more thing about this.
There's several versions of Minutes
available as virtual machines.
If anybody really is interested in it, you can just go out of their minutes.
There's two main websites.
There's like two different people going to maintain it.
There's a different version, but there's seven.
There's several virtual machine versions
and, you know, live in my CD versions.
If you want to fool around with it, come on.
Hey, there's a new version.
Three.
Oh, yeah, I can see three.
Right, right.
Three, four and five.
No, that's not enough.
That's not enough.
M-I-N-I-X.
You know, Minutes, M-I-N-U-X, that's a distribution of a Linux.
See?
Three.
Linux, yeah.
I'm trying to do this three-pointer, three-pointer.
You can have a screenshot, even.
Yeah.
What do you want?
Yeah.
Yeah.
The blue.
The interesting thing is, I think the thing is, there's a book about how to
develop an operating system.
And actually, I think if Torvalds hadn't
known Minutes, I don't know that he could have done Linux.
So I mean, that's why he started.
That's really true.
And it's also the nature of that micro-curl thing.
I don't really understand what I've heard is that if you're
interested in learning how to write a device driver,
that's a good place to start because somehow the micro-curl makes
that easier to do.
Well, with a micro-curl, it's kind of the same idea as a module,
except for your module actually runs in user space.
So it's like your driver is just a program as you compile,
and then you just run it, just like you were a program.
Yeah.
So I mean, that is true.
So I'm going to say if you want to learn
device driver writing, this is a way it's a kind of a
place in that you can take.
Yeah.
Why do you start writing his own current?
Was it because of many flysens?
And he put an extension?
No.
I think he just warned.
I think he did it as a project for a course.
Is that in school?
Is thesis, wasn't it?
Yeah, I mean, I don't know all of it, but I remember hearing
was that he wrote it as a project for a course,
and it was going to start, he used to start it.
And Linux is not a micro-curl?
No.
Linux is the exact opposite end of the spectrum.
That's what was there, 91?
Was there just Windows, or I mean, Mac?
It was like, was there a limited version of Windows 3.10 or
not?
No, Windows 2 maybe.
Yeah, it was like, more or two maybe.
I think there was like a 3.10, which was 3.10.
Windows 3.6, 3.1 was in major.
But Apple Computer had the most of the graphic interface
back in the late 80s or not in your web.
It was, like, 90.
Was it?
Yeah.
So it was like, what was that?
Well, they had, well, before that, what did they have?
They do like Apple computers, like, with this fake.
I mean, I mean, I mean, it was.
They had the OS, they had the OS.
Yeah!
There was a 3.10 version of Windows 3.10, which was
1, 2, 3, 3, 4.
Right, it's 6.
I didn't actually have a printer at the first time.
I had a browser.
It actually had a browser.
It was a little gray boxes, got this fake.
When the classics came up, 91, they started with 6,
and then it was inside of the pool.
OK, I don't know.
So I wanted to see some projects.
I couldn't put anybody at Lisa.
They had a dual booter, but they had, like,
100 set of operating systems set up on the pool.
I think this slide could be able to do it all.
We did something so bad.
It would be very confusing for me.
Yeah.
In my network design class, it says,
we have a 50-car loss, or we can think of one out of 98,
it has to be 50.
I don't have 50.
Two rooms in the works.
I'm doing very good.
How many browsers do you have?
I have two.
Opera.
And the same browser.
And every app, really.
Cool.
Another article was about GIMP.
And somebody wrote in GIMP, we trust.
Did you read it over on?
It's asking you.
I got a question.
I'm not quite onto that one yet.
I'm still looking at...
Because of us?
No, I'm actually looking at it, operating systems,
like, trees and stuff.
But you can find out.
That's enough.
You know, how they actually created,
and how they got merged, and all that stuff.
I'm not really finding too much of that.
Anyway.
Yeah, the GIMP 2.6, it's got some nice updates.
Finally, they're doing other color spaces.
It's just room and entry support right now,
but it's the room and entry support that has to be there.
So, you know, later on, that'll be really important.
Yeah, that's about it.
You know, on the GIMP, I've got an old version of it.
Works just fine, but...
How do you update, like, the GIMP?
You know, you do your own...
Yeah, you do your own...
Save your GIMP directory and your home directory.
Throw everything else away.
Reinstall it, and then go through the stuff you have
in your GIMP directory, and find out what works
and what doesn't work.
That's basically...
It's all going to work.
Most of it works.
They're pretty good with that.
But, yeah, just uninstall the old one.
Save your GIMP the new one.
You don't even have to uninstall it.
You can go through multiple synaptic or whatever.
I thought I was wondering if that'd be a repository?
Yeah, that's in the repository.
You should do it on its own, though.
It doesn't pop it up, as you...
Unless it is backpore.
And what else was there?
There was...
Actually, release notes, so whatever they had.
We were talking about that first-shot
filters we were working.
Yep, you know.
Was it actually with this release?
Or was it also with the old one?
I don't recall.
I've been a beta for, you know, a pre-delease of this one.
Introduction user in the phase.
It might work at this one with a particular plugin as well.
Like, you might have had to have this certain plugin
that was a wrapper for the
Photoshop plugins.
So here you have, actually, whatever change is there.
I like my...
Underdashboard.
Yeah, that G E G L is supposed to be the major upgrade.
They're completely replacing the back-end code with this.
It's kind of like its own little programming language
for image manipulation.
So that's supposed to allow them to then do different bit depth of color,
different color spaces, CMYK, all these other color spaces and such and that's
been one of the big complaints from everyone that the game is just you know
24-bit RGB and you can write your own blanking if you pair?
Yep, I think a Python, a simple Python, so I'm going to crash as you don't have to
have to age it disappear, okay there's two different ways you can actually
write it you can use this strip food which is not Python or you can write a
straight-up Python program as well in case you want it to just go away if it
errors this actually I think pops up an error message, that was a sland on
Python, I heard that. I do have to say that's one thing I could have done, I did
jacosha, jacosha really uses Python and it doesn't just go away anymore so it's a
Python God, God will save it. Just stick around. And that's saying what is planted, a
planet, so whatever, and now all the people I'll work on, that's solving, that's all
the people who work on it, well not all the major contributors probably, real
photo or has it been stitched? The good-looking group I'll have to say, it is the
game, so you got to guess that it was static, you know, people take it all over the
world, they buy just a bit of their picture, yeah I think so, when you look, it looks a
little out of it, that is beautiful, what do you want? It's a game, okay, what else
do you want? It kind of looks like it's a little bit, I mean it's pretty good. There was a
release, a new release in mono 2.0, and any longer of the mono, we'll enjoy. I read it,
well I kind of looked at it, and is there a lot of development? There are some, some
people claim that there is a lot of business applications written in visual
basically, and so it is just so that the people who are developing this enterprise software
are using it, my grade, yes, the number of these subsides are fairly well known, Linux apps
that are written in one of them, yes, that's such a bad idea, it's not just VVS, it's
just VVS, yeah, C-sharp, C-sharp, actually if you want programs, C-sharp you have to use
it with the .NET framework or model, because it's similar to Java, it has to have a good
time, and actually, Sharp C was because of that, wow, it was developed because of Java,
actually, oh, this, okay, here's where it came from, Microsoft made their own Java,
two plus plus, they got two, the paid a billion dollars, they got pissed at some, say hired
them, they hired this guy, they're own language that was an exact copy of Java called C-sharp,
they hired a guy from, yeah, there's a couple of other, there's like a D language too, I
never really caught on, so there's a mono 2.0 as well, if you're asking, there is, what is
the Banshee, is the music player written in mono, one of our new own boys, what are the
P's with crash-brem machine, no more Dp, so what does, what does top, point, when those
as well as B and C, as a stage, but, somebody wrote a handbrake, a user in the face, never
wants to start a tool program, what do you want, that's where you go for it, you go there,
go for it, it can go for four days, does anybody know how mono manages the forms for a graphical
interface, this way work with GNOME and KDE, with WF twins, there are others like G2K
Rackers for, as I understand it, you can take a monologue, you can show it, you can file it,
you shouldn't believe it's a file, yeah, it's like Java, it actually compiles to
bytecode, and then the bytecode is what runs on the computer environment, so that's the idea,
a C-sharp of the C++ program, or all the same thing, well, C++ is like Z's
the management code, and it all gets compiled with the same thing, and in Microsoft.net
studio, you can actually take a VB program, and it will translate into a C-sharp
program, and you can switch between the two, because the compiler is the same on the
end, right on the back end, there's really no difference, it's just the semantic
of writing it, and the big thing before was, if you use Windows forms in order to
display anything on-screen, it wouldn't be cross compatible, because yes, model,
or the data framework is an open standard, but there's parts of it that are not, and the
Windows forms was part of that, this 2.0 version actually comes with forms, so
that's what I know, it's not as curious anyway, because that's one of the things that
I've seen lately. There's always a buggy about legs, it's so hard to write something that
will work every week. It's GTK, it's really about dealing with GTK, like the
X-Witches are the only things that are going to be cross compatible, but it needs
to work with GTK, and QT is just recently cross compatible windows, like there was a
version that worked for Windows, and then for the longest time it didn't work as
in on Windows. Now, yeah, there's a Windows version again, but GTK has been
consistently releasing Windows versions for work. Again, I think
you've got all these major packages that are using GTK, but Windows users are
interested in it, so there is some support there. And there's the
Arika. Arika, how do I have to go? I guess nobody found it, right?
We all found it, so I thought it was referring to a smell.
So, there was some particle of that, and it goes down like,
where it comes, like, stuck it in there. I like using it in storage
data, I don't know if I should get any information. I've got some
program for you to try out here. I can help you use the space.
Yeah. Well, really? Bring it on over. By the way, we are recording.
Okay. No, no. I know. Those are just the ISO images.
I could write a compression algorithm for you.
It has like a negative percentage.
It expands your 8.5 bits to maybe about 256.
Oh, yeah, it's just encrypted. Yeah. Try decoding that.
There was article about tomato, tomato firmware, or WRT54G.
You know, all these packages for routers are nice, but it's my router.
I'm not going to touch it. It works. But a lot of people like it.
You have to have two so that you can play with one.
Yes. While your other one is actually giving you the website,
it tells you how to play with it. Because if you screw it up,
you're stuck. You go into your friend's house.
I haven't paid voted before you attempt this.
I'm out of it. I'm out of it.
This is a big problem. No new firmware in your router.
D-E-W-R-T is rock stock.
Never having a problem. Never having a problem.
What do we do that for? Well, some people like you can buy a $70 router
that does stuff that $500 routers do.
I can plug a printer right into my router and use it as a printer.
Because you have a USB port.
Some of these router companies make the firmware or the hardware is all the same.
They just give you different packages.
Pretty much you run a full Linux box on there and you can do anything that Linux can do.
That's the hardware.
The hardware is obviously not the same as PC.
It's limited.
Because it's the same.
You can do all sorts of things.
You can set it up into a whole server.
You can do all sorts of things.
Wow.
I know that some people like to model.
Tomato.
Let's go.
You are like genius.
You can post a website.
Yes.
But you have the PC in the back for more memory.
You can plug a USB stick in and you can go to a website right off the USB stick.
Wow.
That's kind of neat actually, isn't it?
They come in 16 baby.
16 baby.
They're right there.
We're the one here.
They are the ones who move together.
Next to nothing.
Oh you did go in here.
Here's the...
No, no.
Is that the mouse?
No, no, no.
That's the mouse.
It was a...
Is there any club all broke down?
Hey, music here.
Music there.
There was that broke down.
There is a driver.
broke down and they'll said that they're they'll one of those cards we have
wrote come cars cars they work for me now the one thing about that though they're
not truly open source and they never will return read or release them as true
open source because they can't their FCC whatever it's called you know
verification or whatever with an open source driver because they have to put
some limits on the power and such so they can never open source it legally
and still have an FCC applied well you know if you own one of those cards
you're just very happy person you know what I tried that well I have
broadcom the open one is just does not work I mean I get a connection and I get
maybe you know through put of one megabit maybe yeah I blacklisted the free
one put on NDS rapper having had any problems and this one actually hits the
biggest frame we'll see I'll have to try it out again and see if it got me
better but I don't know based on four so that's one right here covers what it's
so that's actually good news you know and we already have decent
drivers on the new and pretty much everything we have in that ship that is already has a
similar life's driver for these cool what else there's some applications we
did talk about Amahi then we and we're server two was released few
few weeks ago so there's an actual link to download they're talking about
Alice that was that thank you everyone figure out what's in DMware that it's 600
megabytes that anyone snooping software but it works because there what there is
somebody at work that they were trying to get the Mware installed working and you
know it was it be a hassle they're not really a Linux person Linux actually
wiped out their windows partition that's supposed to be I know it the Linux
partition game smarts for a little bit there and wiped it out so he installed a
Ubuntu and he was trying to get the Mware work and having problems problems
problems and I told him download virtual box and said yeah I downloaded 20 you
know 20 megabyte file versus 600 and it just works oh so virtual boxes you
think it's a better program right now it's a lot easier to use it simply virtualized
it depends what you want to do this guy wasn't wasn't an idiot either I mean he
knew what he was doing and he was having problems with the Mware or virtual
boxes so you're running it yeah so I don't know let's see you've got right
right yeah that's what I use I don't know I'm till somebody can tell me what
the other you know 570 megabytes is for okay you know I think somebody
actually wrote the implosion algorithm oh that yeah that compression yeah
they're the compression it's just not very efficient yeah and they have all
the same features so I it just doesn't make any sense yeah 60 megabytes of
job around yeah yeah we're doing a lot more advanced thing Tom that's it isn't it's got
the you know it's got five meg V&C what's it got in there?
what's a Tom that's it's a first time so it's actually the more actually it's a lot of
tricks you can do they just don't release what you can do with it like if you go
online there's a guy who's got a list of all these commands that you can do and he's got like
a thousand of them and VM engines will not acknowledge the phases to prove the
big work so VMware is an operating system not a piece of software for your
essentially they do a Linux ISO image that's 190 meg so I don't know what exactly that is
but that's useful it's in the install here so it's a network ISO well you know it's a software
house so yeah writing code so I think it's like pre-configured environment
it's set up so I think I don't use it for nearly any of what I can do
so a lot of this stuff I can pull it down just gonna take some of this is that that's the
where it's normal that's VMware
they're trying to figure out what VM is I'm sure it's a property feature that you know
two percent of users see that they could have had in the separate package but those two percent
I'll stick with virtual locks virtual box yeah I really like that that's free to
work we had the the applications was so high did you talk about it last week
I don't know if we talk about it it's actually applications they're like it's Google spreadsheet and
writer and whatever it is and this is coming from our friends from India so it might work but
I think all the way to where your data is there's a web so web-based it is what they deal and okay
yes it's always you know whatever the services you are using think about what kind of data you
are putting there and if you really care if you lose the data with somebody who is snooping about
that so I would advise them to put your tax returns better I'm always running through a compression
algorithm yes an inefficient compression and efficient yes it's kind of funny one of these you
could almost take and reinvent yourself and see you know if you start getting mail you know
it doesn't have you know that you see that I do that regularly we use you know we put crazy
things on calendars and stuff again we get a whole bunch of you know junk mail in Chinese and
Sanskrit yeah exactly right I did that once I had an alternate I like you know when I sent it
up for mail let's say I do they're starting you know I know they're a brush okay well I got a
selective service is a thing for her brush and me I'm a long confused I'm like okay I've got
what am I supposed to look at two of these so the government apparently just mines data to and oh
I don't know just say I don't want to buy it from someone well I didn't know that like
being four or five years ago that they were mining data to send those and those people
well this is more than four or five years ago but didn't you didn't you watch them be here
it was about the Vietnam War and they were getting yeah so you're supposed to do the same thing
what he did he got a musical yeah it is musical okay they they was also musical not move
yeah it's not so far okay it's not far in the musical what they they made a movie
is a genius genius I like that movie that musical
hi how are you doing there was some articles about booting limits in five seconds
there was something about it
I know it's a trickly PC but people will try and do something that would roughly make ten seconds
which when we talk about it there was another article and it was something
Monter Vista and it was about Dell yeah so I wonder if
is it the same thing what they are talking about okay okay well upstart upstart is supposed
to get rid of in it and because we want to start it to do upstart and then we got quite popular
so they I think they are they were rewriting it because it doesn't use in it sequence it does use
so if they pair that with that new intel drive they could probably boot that in more
second half you mean solid state yeah that the 250 megabyte a second solid state drive
that's what we needed so they also use a package called s3dehead which it does it's reading files it doesn't
read the whole file it only reads the portion of the file that actually needs it's way too geeky
that's the five second of luthu they've been working on this for a long time I remember a couple
years ago there was this program you could run at startup and graphically show you what was working
you know when your CD was yelling when you were getting okay they've got an aversion right there
you know they've been doing the same thing windows used to have it though can't find anything about
that anymore it's not important anymore it's not about work do they have anything for trying to do
that much I never shut it off so just put it in sleep mode sits there for like three or four days
so I get coordinated before I open it back up it's fine I'm always running in sleep mode
I mind don't work your sleep doesn't work I don't actually go to see if our
hibernated actually goes into like a suspend what type of sleep does it actually do does it do
it's like this they got rid of their suspendable it went to sleep and their sleep is a combined
like hibernate and suspended rights to hard drive and it keeps the memory actors
so that way if you lose your power lose power you can still just power on it'll be right back
where you left whereas you know stand by mode is dangerous because if you lose power you just lost
everything you're working on the bad thing about two though hibernate is slow especially when
you have a lot around but see that's why it does both it keeps your memory active and
when you close the lid it takes at five minutes to hibernate like this thing takes probably five or six
minutes to hibernate to come out of hibernate but what would you have to shut it long five
what would you have to have to have to shut it off shut it off shut it down you walking away or
what you open absolutely yeah that's true so who cares how long it takes to right down the memory I'm
not sitting there I'm not shutting my laptop I'm going okay well right is still on does it
right of one or two gigs to the hard drive yes yes it has to write all ram to the hard drive
and then and all the interstates to all the hardware to the hard drive so that it can restore them
when it starts back up the hollows it take the right two gig it does take a long time but I mean
only does like 75 meg a second or so that's about the max speed you're going to get out of hard drive
so it takes a while yeah 13 seconds a gig yep okay the opportunity
but see that's why you know if you do a hybrid of a tube where you're doing the stamp you know
you're doing your straight hibernate and a standby mode and you get the you get the redundancy of
hibernate yes so if you lose power your data still safe but if not you get right back into it
you know I don't think it's not hard to set that up in my experience you're probably going to
mess with your gig scripts and yeah yeah power scripts right that's what's the fact I learned
at the dark side yeah it's something that they're spouting oh this is such a great new feature
and later you can switch around three lines and a script that's done
all right so we don't have apps oh I know we can take 10 years for somebody to go
it'll take 10 years for somebody to write the three lines script that actually do it but
you can do it in three lines of script oh that script will be okay is that going to be in purl
doesn't know oh it'll be a shell script and nobody can read you that
I think it should be a project yeah oh yeah of course sure nobody can read that
let's move on we are getting you to beta area all news okay 9.6 is out I downloaded it
is it getting in the movie or is it getting your movie out the movie good movie I don't know
I'll tell you how it is later okay no I downloaded it at the beginning of the meeting actually
you have so much work while we're there cover apparently you downloaded it at the beginning of
the movie too movie yeah it's a musical that's right the musical you guys are just some
based on the poem can we move on are we done can we move on
we went to beta was released and Fedora 10 beta was released so that's hard because
if somebody is so adventurous pretty I can't
doesn't look like there's a lot new in Fedora that's really all interesting
then they work
no actually that's the one that the installer was so messed up on
the buttons were about that big yeah Fedora you kind of overlapping it
it just didn't work you kind of got to read whether the that version is good or not
like five was good version then eight was good version so by that eleven should be the next
good version it's good yeah Star Trek movie developers for developers I tried to
Ubuntu 810 beta on one of my other HDMI screen at 1920 1200 and it recognized the
loop resolution and everything worked fine but the actual windows they were putting on there
were beyond 1920 12 on it which is just amazing well you know you get two full prize in one
of the other left-hand corner and resize them down and drag them back out and they go work
they get through it but I wonder if we would Fedora when you'd like your bags
because that would probably be the buttons were just jamming up in these stuff
they don't have fun in the text stores they like
like
you know maybe those developers are maybe to go with the BAC huh
if you don't get a big A
if you guys don't want clock that's not yeah BAC
if you get a BACs and BACs we go together
we have to go with the A
oh the trash can and the A
is that the other one?
the BAT?
I'm counting with the one
he has trash?
I got rid of my calendar actually
I got to see the same day I just had a big clock
and one of his trash can
I think like 30% of you right?
I was like 15
okay 15
but yeah good good manager
here's a surprise article huh?
actually we told you about it two weeks ago
but the real network is saying that there was a precedence in the court
and it was about I think the name of the company was
and you want a court
you know so that's what it is
well there's another interesting thing there there was that
that file downloading case in Minnesota
where they were in Peru
now it's up somewhere up in that area but
the judge came back and he said he made an error because they literally
said that the music industry did not have to
prove damages and some of them actually came up with this
$22,000 that this lady had cost the
music in this country
now it's $22 well anyway
the judge came back and through the case
or through
or said it was going to be a mistrial
they'd have to be done over because
it is the responsibility of the industry
the RAIA or whatever it is
to show that
that the person who gave the song in the internet
did cause
damage and how much damage did they cause
I think it was actually that they had to
have proof that someone downloaded the song
from the virtual computer that was the original case
but now in order for the industry to get money
out of the people they have to show a real damage
that the per-people caused
the two might be kind of a layer
they're pretty sure they said that they would not be able to prove
individual accounts of
download of online
right right and this was just news like a week ago I read
because they were only providing
it there's no they didn't have any way of tracking
who actually downloaded it so based on that
they can't actually prove any
lost sales because they don't know how many people downloaded it
it could have been zero it could have been the
right that was why the judge said the case
he decided the case needed to be retried
because he originally told the jury
that it was not the responsibility of the
RAA to prove how much they were damaged
and now he came back and he said it is the responsibility
of the RAA to show that
they were damaged and how much were they damaged by this person
which makes more sense I mean how do you just randomly come up with a number out of the sky
you know
how much does the lawyer want
add this much percent
there's the number right yeah that's that's probably
what they did do it so I thought that was kind of interesting
yeah to me that's interesting because
I made download something but I would never buy it
so is that a lost sale because I would never buy
no I let's say let's say I don't I don't know what even
what people listen to now it's actually too much
you know let's say I downloaded something
well I may never buy it so is it a lost sale
no they'll make a proof that it is that's no that's exactly right
so all right it's like listening to someone in the radio just because you're
out of the radio you're not going to run by it yeah
in fact there's probably a good chance you're not going to buy it because you didn't like it
and that was actually it works a little way too if you download that song and you like it
you might get a lot of chance you might go and buy the CD
right they don't look at it that way I know I'd prove these songs on the
if I can prove these songs on the internet
there's a lot of different CDs that I would know right now
yeah but you can't hear stuff either I do it yeah
literally I go through last FM and I look through
30 seconds doesn't get you what a song is all over
well no like yeah unless it gives you an idea
gives you the entire song for a couple of these albums
like seriously here's my list of
bands to go look at based on last FM and I'd never heard any of these on the radio
and I never would have heard any of these on the radio you will have a
probably hear about that one I mean I never will hear about them on the radio
but because they don't have some young check good looking check out in front of
the video
there you go
there you go there you go
what's that you know a radio station to place a song
to a radio station they buy it
radio station have to wait see like my place I support you have to pay
all right but one thing
a radio station shame worry but the
the artist who know about the selling and now
they gave a radio station to play the song hole one over again
they don't think they pay them but they charge him less the place they're
really cynics yeah in some case they're paying
I don't actually have that on the list actually
I said on my space page so what did it say about that real
easy thing just to know they're in court
and the real real life work is saying there's a president
and uh they did a good thing to win it again
well it's just a you know to think it's just a
stalled act in a way that they're trying to
bank from these little companies it is it is
there's a lot of money but I think you would think they'd be run
the CD sales I think dropped 20% last year
yeah but the 17% or something huge number
well there's a lot of people I've done
I'm directly buried with by the
yeah I said that's one of our clients
he said use my space as a tool where you can preview
songs if the artist lets you if you can download
seven songs and three and there's a tool
I don't know what the name is but look at the selling
if you two so you can can buy it directly
because they collect the money which is my space
so and that was much easier to set up than anything to iTunes
I can tell you that's less complicated
uploading it was all the way up
it was like the whole plan you just put the code in
it's right there and it might be a page that's all I think
it's all pretty civilistic just what everybody's
getting rid of the Rm you know the Rm yeah
it's a Walmart cutoff the Rm yep
that's what this is all right here yeah
you have uh uh this isn't about the Rm
well sorry about the Rm it is about the Rm that
it's not a typical Rm stuff
well they are selling the Rm and if they shut down the iTunes
there's no service to authenticate your
the Rm so you guys want so your screw you have screw
you like it on that so many people they would lose so much
right on their reputation well look at all the ones that are very shut down
there's apples already because they have the happy day and the Walmart day
yes yes but how is this the Rm work you log onto the internet
to validate calls no
there to be the Rm label it has to validate
against the Rm so you might have a timestamp but that
the music is valid so like in these i5 players and you
don't iTunes you feel only good for
you need to use your musical stuff
yeah it's good forever but you have to authorize
through the Rm server how often do I know this is what we need to do
you need to take the song you need to burn it to
CD and then you need to rip it to an empty three
and then you add that okay
yes how do you know if your music is DRM depends
what you bought it from and the file extension if it's a regular
mp3 it's not DR what will what will the extension be for DRM
DRM
what is AAC or ACC has me around various depending on
what type of DRM it is
but you can have you can have AAC or WM
VM is not it's not DR right you can't necessarily tell just by the
exactly by the extension but certain ones are
able to yeah you're putting on your brother's computer and if it plays very
exactly
okay if you don't have a brother
yeah the player pretty much calls on before to play it
yes make sure that down the same so it's kind of
I don't know how it's in a special form how does a
how does a player hold home it over the internet
how do I know it's copy so little iTunes things are
it's a lot better for those who actually can't even copy to the device
unless you have the you know permission to actually copy
but then once it's copy to the device is it
accessible always it's accessible on the device level is
but you can't copy it off because they're software to copy it off
some of these things you have to plug the device into the computer
keenly to re-authorize your stuff with the files
like for sure you know like yeah well then you need to buy
about a music player so there's another
certainly
they never got the Apple plan ever after
I mean I know that they didn't start to carry some
I feel like well music is fun but with some type of
encryption I don't know they don't know you know
hardware basically they don't know how to do this
but that would be so horrible
yeah for hot see hot would drive this
like but now all of a sudden it's normal
everybody can see what's easy I mean the way we have the handles to
with iPod's knowledge and all of them at the speed
place because soon as the box you don't know
you know if you walk in isn't it a walk out isn't a
van there isn't a van I'm sure you can track it quite a bit
well let's see what's the newest idea that but more
often on the regional stream your
rechargeable device is individually coded
to your particular device so if I steal your iPod
I cannot use like my same clock and be able to
reach our pocket that's in the old probably because
that's the same as situation that's not going to go up
but see that's the pressure going on because that's so easy to steal
because probably I know you just walk you replace your
to make this your 5-mac in a store
that's great that's one marks problem not the consumer's problem so stop
making it the consumer's problem no but that's the problem well
that's the whole problem though is that instead of
you know going after the thieves they're accusing everybody's
problem is iPod is not going to do anything about it
iPod is going to do anything about it is going to
make sure the signal that everyone wants to see is this
is this my uh for nettles or I mean is this Walmart's proprietary
oh it's not just I mean just I'm at Walmart that's one of the things that
happens to everybody to reach out to it's an issue
and become the biggest problem with company issue because in the
previous thing if you stole something to store it
it was usually not a big dollar problem because iPod is it's like $4.5
now it's a criminal fact because of the dollar problem
look at that from a legal standpoint you reach all this kids reaching it
totally different level and before you walk in and store a piece of
candy or something like $10 but now you store a fact
and it's a little bit you'll be able to come to
20 different people that's the power of the problem
yeah then you get the car or something good
well so there's no one
give more gills let's more gills here
let's move on let's take more coffee and move on
yes no more rubbish to be whined with gills
send them to Soviet Russia okay we got more people in jail
what are they doing oh crap we're over there
shall we move on yeah you will get this
probably the clutch in it did you watch debate
let's look fire to you up okay so let's move on
okay let's move on
now let's move on last week we talk about
apple doesn't require NBA for their SD day
of course not if they don't like what you made me just won't let you have it
no they wouldn't just publish it because you have to
actually buy it through their store so yeah
and you can you have to submit it to them
yes for approval yes because otherwise you can
but now they don't have the NBA on their you know
no we're not just or put it on the store
so what they'll do is they just won't put any
information on that then it doesn't matter
that you didn't sign the NBA or anything because
there's no information there apple is good
let's move on there are a few how-tos convert
a flash video to DVD ISO in Ubuntu
I'm not really sure what would you do that because you probably don't have
very high quality flash movie
unless the new movie is actually pretty high quality
yeah we should have it on the 720
720
you don't need 720p for a DVD yeah DVD is only 480i
so here's the how-to we do that install xbox media center
on Ubuntu I think it's xbox media center it's
all in the project and then shell script
to back up your database this is really long
so again actually there's how-to back up your database my
school with everything data tables pretty much
do the data thank you could a wrap that link a
few more lines I wanted to but I hate only
only once yeah okay and then
data recover to the test it is
we cover windows right we cover windows
partitions we talked about it last week
that's why that's why that's why Adam cannot talk
right now because he would just close
he's not listening to you I know the test is
so and that would be about it for a newsletter
this week so right now we can talk about
fully for the day
so be Russia yeah okay so I think this is
okay don't ever ever say that again
I think this is about end of the recording
so thank you for listening and see you next
thank you for listening to hacker public radio
hpr sponsored by caro.net so head on over to
c-a-r-o dot n-e-c for all of us
