Episode: 519
Title: HPR0519: TiT Radio 018 - moooo! Baby
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0519/hpr0519.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 22:23:58

---

Tip Radio, episode 18, is recorded live. The only hacker public radio show with super cow
powers. Move, baby.
Can we have that one more, but I'd like the move to be a little bit longer, please?
They'll help move you.
Haha, that was good.
Hello and welcome back to another exciting episode of Tip Radio. Let's meet our round table
of geeks starting with Kla too. Hey everyone. Peter 64.
Yeah.
Asmuth.
How do you do?
And J-Man.
Hello.
Let's jump right into listener feedback. DJI writes in. And this is all he said.
The Python web server plus pi parallel and pi serial could have some real interesting
possibilities. That's all he said. And I wrote back.
Have any links or more info. And he sends back a bunch of links. And the main one looks
like pi-serio.sourceforge.net slash pi-parallel.html. There's a bunch of other links. Have you
guys looked into this?
A little bit. I don't really know much about this kind of thing, but I think the advantage
I almost want to say we talked about something like this before where we were talking about
faster downloads or something like that. Possibly just being a web server that allows a Python
database web server that allows lots of concurrent connections and stuff. That's the only thing
I can figure out. But I really have no idea.
Yeah. I haven't even looked at any of the links that I sent.
I'm not a rook to them, but I just, I don't really know. I mean, like pi-parallel literally
sends out a web server via the parallel port. Yeah. I mean, it's not, you know, the easy
web server that is access to via the parallel port. So maybe it's just, maybe it's just
a simple being good for bolder machines. You know, I don't, I don't really know. I
might just be it. It might just be a new group. You kind of, like, just because we can.
Then I was trying to equate with something that we've mentioned before that the maybe
this is just like random, like, hey, look at this guys. Feedback.
Well, I'll go ahead and put everything into the show notes. And if anybody could, you
know, send us a message, you know, the feedback at titrido.info. Let us know what exactly
it is and how to use it. We'll go ahead and mention it on another show, because I thought
it was referring to the topic that ASMIS was talking about. Would that simple server thing?
Yeah, yeah. I think that could be it. Well, simple server is simple, and that's why
I use it. It's very uncomplicated, which I need. I wonder how the fact that it goes via
the parallel port. I mean, is that still needed to this TCP IP talk to parallel port? I
didn't even know it could do that. I guess it doesn't really matter in the long run.
It's pretty cool, I guess, even though I don't understand it.
Well, we'll check back once we get some more info on it. Any more feedback?
Well, there's the one about the search engine or whatever. I think you're 64-staffed
at that. Yeah, I was just looking for it, but I won't meet slackway system. And talk
about yourself, and I'll go and get the laptop. Now, Cloud 2, you're using a new phone today.
How did you set that up? You got two Nikans fishing line. Yeah, and plugged into the
parallel port. It doesn't sound that bad. No. Cool.
You might want to go to Campbell's soup cans. They work better. Yeah, they resonate better
because of the cheap plastic line eating or whatever. Well, they resonate a little better.
They're not quite so bassy. Oh, yeah, bass is a problem with my voice, too.
It is tonight. Really? I'm going to yearl it. I can't wait to hear my voice.
I thought you were right. I thought you'd stand like, jack, we were caught. Cool.
Not really.
Well, fine. I've got that sexy, what's that berry white thing going on? There's a key
through itchers. Who's key through itchers? Is that the guy from Kiss?
No, he's like a guy from Rolling Stones, and I actually haven't heard him, but people tell
me he looks and sounds like he should. He's probably dead, but he just doesn't know
it yet. Yeah, I know who he is. He's like 70-something years old and still rocking out.
Yeah, yeah, exactly. Did you find that email, Peter? Yeah, just open it now.
He splikes got this. No, is this an email for tip radio or for Lennox Cranks?
I think it was referring to Lennox Cranks actually. It's quite to mention on the previous Lennox
Cranks episode that he was looking for a new search engine to use other than Google.
I've been using a site called alltheweb.com, which uses Yahoo Search, and as we referred to
the other day, no one wants to use bloody Yahoo because of that in the front page you got to go to,
but this one gives a new interface that's much cleaner and simpler like Google. Now, what are you
done here? He says here, I think the paranoid cranks should put their money where they're
mouther and switched to all the web as their search engine for two weeks. Now, I've actually
started to use this, and guess who this was from? This is from RMX, would you believe?
RMX? Yes, his name. Well, I take it, I can say his name. He put it in his email. Richard,
Montabar, Starman. Anyway, I'm going to take him up on his challenge, and from now until we do
the next 10 in two weeks, exclusively, this will be my webpage. Okay, what's the address all the web?
Why are you this? Well, I don't know. I think the paranoid cranks should put their money where
they're message. I think because we're always dogging on Google for being big brother, so we're
not supposed to use all the web.com. I'm going to use it. I'm going to test it out. Why not? Why? I don't
like it. He hasn't even got it yet. It says Yahoo at the bottom. Correct. If the front page
for Yahoo, that's what the email said. There's only a few search engines I'm going to use. That's
Google and Clusty. That's it. Now I'm just a front end for other ones too. I like it to be wrong.
I'm going to give it my test. Peter64, and depending on what the first link says, I'll use it.
G'day. That's a good one. Any bloody web search that comes up when you type Peter64 on the first
word you see is G'day has got to be good. That's what he used it. Hey, and it knows my podcast.
I could end the bad apples and it was actually cool. I might use this forever now. Okay, and I'm now
making this my search home page. So, RMS, the challenge is on. In natural fact, he's not even
talking to me because I'm the only bloody crank that's not paranoid. I'm the one who always says,
I don't give a shit. What people are watching me do. Why don't I understand who's watching on Google?
Well, that's in 330. Do you always go on about it? But you don't say it. I don't like it. I don't
like it. I don't like it. You don't like it. I mean, I don't like it. I'm just excited to leave the
curtains open. I don't care if it sees what I'm doing. That left your speechless, didn't it? Yeah.
Pretty much. I'm still trying to picture it. I know. I'm trying to get that picture out of my mind.
He's very nice to me. Yeah, I don't see what there is to be paranoid about. All the web
has a lot more ads than Google does. I don't know about that. If you type in just type in RMS in both
of them. All right. The first result with Google, you get something from Wikipedia. The first four
things you get on it, all the web is for ads. Those are pretty easy to filter out visually,
though, because I imagine they're always going to be up there. But you're right. You just
about download like Firebug and like zap that that section or something and script it to do a
crime job. So every time you search, it eliminates the sponsors links or something. I don't know.
On Closteter's only one ad. Oh, well, that's a good point.
Well, we'll do Vendee Boys. There's only one ad. A Vegemite. They're probably not going to
matter what that is. Two ads at the top for Vegemite. I finally got one and then the next one's
Wikipedia. The top one's Vegemite.com and the next one I get Wikipedia.
I'm going to try it. I'm going to try all the web for the next two weeks. See what look I have.
I imagine I'll be doing fine because I haven't used Google in almost three weeks now. I haven't
wanted for any kind of information. As long as that star page is nice and coin, that's a long
really concerned event. Yeah. Let's put basically what I want. I mean, I think all the search engines
at least as far as I can tell so far, I think they've all kind of come up to speed. I type in
something that I need to know about Linux or whatever. I type in an error message into Closteter
or Google or whatever I'm trying that day. I pretty much get the same. I have the same success,
you know. I get the answer in a couple of clicks. That's what I rely on them for.
I don't have to make any difference to results. It's obviously got to. You know, when you use google.com
Ford slacks Linux. So all your results are pertinent to Linux. I take it. That's what's supposed to
happen. Right. Yeah. It'd be interesting then to compare doing that and Google and all the web.
I've never actually done that just to see what happens. Yeah, but would be interesting because that is
that is cool. You're right. Yeah. It's been such a long sense. I've had to really do it. I'd
used to have to do it all the time when I was bloody learning. I'm still learning, obviously,
but you know what I mean. What's that other one, Jaylenger, you've talked about and Closteter,
not Closteter, Kajari has mentioned at many times that probably a dog pile. Yeah, dog pile.
And what's that do? That's a front end to typically a lot of a lot of search engines.
Is that right? Yeah, it's like an aggregation. It searches them all and then combines the results.
You would have to say that that's got to be the best. Yeah. We've had even used them.
Yeah, I mean, I'd be willing to try it, although its page is actually coming up really,
really badly rendered and conqueror right now that I'm trying it in, but I don't much care
for the layout. I don't think it's a dog pile. It's got a super bowl bloody 20s. What is it, 36 or something?
Add to that would turn my office straight away. Yeah, after looking at all these, Google looks like
the best one. Just a matter of opinion. Sure. Well, I just love the nice clean interface.
All the web has a nice clean interface. Oh, I don't think so. You know what? And
besides that, you can always override that CSS stuff with your own browser style sheet. Why don't you
why don't you use your CSS prowess and write your own front end for all the web? That's too much work.
Just a search. It's for freedom, Monster B. For freedom from the crying eyes of people.
I still don't understand all this freedom crap you guys are talking about with Google.
Rob 330 told me that Google was spying on me and beyond that, I don't really think I need to explain
myself further. 330 said that his mother's father's brother, Uncle, worked there. Oh,
he used someone to work there and I watched you. That's right. Because they're going to get
very bored watching where I go on the net. Yeah, that's what I said. If people want to watch
what I'm doing on the bloody net, well, we're going to go for it. They must have very sad
loss. Yeah, I mean, for the search, I really don't care. But I think if Google collects
like how many searches come through it's little engine, I don't know. I don't have a problem
with not being one of those people supporting Google. They're just, they're all as money for no
good reason and they're kind of a weird company that freaks me out. So I'm not interested in like,
I don't know, being a part of the Google family, I guess. Let me check my Gmail account right now
while I'm talking about it. Well, I'm going to put Clusty in second place.
Yeah, actually, Clusty is not bad, but all the web is not attending me. I'm going to try it.
I'm going to give it a good go. Have you ever sat there typing and wondering why your
bloody keyboard's not working? And then you realize you're on the wrong computer.
I've definitely added a lot to the wrong IRC channel. That's easy to do.
Yeah, waiting to get you to do. Now, back in the day, did you guys ever use Winamp or that
XMMS in Windows a long time ago? I remember winning. Then the one for Linux was the XMMS,
where I looked the same and it shared the same skins and you said that all the time. That was
the audio player back then. Would you see the project QMMP? I mean, it looks just like it,
but it's written in QT and it uses, well, you can use Paul Sardio, what supports Paul Sardio
and Jack Audio, and it uses all the same classic themes and skins. That's cool. I mean, a lot of
people still use XMMS, but it's hard to get it now because nobody wants to maintain the GTK1
deck and, you know, there's meat media player, but a lot of people don't like that. There's some
reason. My favorite has always been GM player, but they're not developing that anymore, are they?
I don't think I've ever used it. No, I don't think they included anymore in the employer.
There's a lot of other front-ends and they're just all bloody ugly and I always like GM player
and it has some nice skins with it too. Yeah, FM player has a huge following. I mean, a lot of
people like that. Well, Peter, you're using awesome, right? Yeah. Yeah, I just thought this player
would be pretty nice, you know, because it's lightweight, you know, just something that loads
fast, there's nothing fancy about it. Yeah, I must admit, I don't listen to a lot of stuff on
the computer and when I do it, it's typically just a, you know, I might put a, I'll cast on
in the background and honestly, in-player, I don't have playlists and all that. I've never
bothered to set any of that sort of stuff up in like Amarok or any of them. I'm just usually
happy just to start in-player with the foil or occasionally VLC. VLC seems to do just about
everything you ever need. Well, VLC, it'll play a video that I can't seem to get to play
in other players. Mostly they, my other players don't seem to pick up the audio off of the local
PBS station here and some programs say they've got some weird audio encoding on it and VLC's
the only one that'll play it. Of course, when that happens, Peter's the one that gets the
brunt of it because he gets a lot of issues VLC and make a bug, the or a file out of a woodworking
program that he gets from me that he can't play on his PC, but that's always good for the
sprinkler heads. I've never actually used VLC to transcode video. I have used it when I want to
pull audio out of a video, but it's such a versatile application. You could almost just
limp with it, couldn't you? Yeah, it's about the first thing I add to any system I set up.
I've taken video direct from my analog to digital card and taken it off of a VHS camera or
or taken a Mac digital off of VHS tapes and it works great for that. I found it, it's pretty nice
for converting, especially if you want to go to OBS, it really works nice there.
Yeah, I remember using VLC on Windows because it was the only way you could stream
movies across the network. In fact, I think that was my first introduction to VLC. I've often
wondered why they used the witch's hat as their icon. Now, old witch hat. That's a traffic cone.
Yeah, but that's what we call a witch's hat here in Australia.
Are you guys really our backwards camera? Well, they still have active witches in Australia.
The hands that come up with that, there must be a story behind that. Oh, hey, they've got a good story
behind that. Should let Jay Lindsay tell you, I queried him with a trivia question and he
come back with a real nice answer for it here the other day. How about that, Jay Lindsay?
Yeah, if you look it up, there's a forum post. Someone said that the student organization
that the video land thing was part of, some of them came back drunk with traffic cones and then
they started a traffic cone collection and that's how they came up with traffic on my phone.
Well, it is a very distinctive icon and you don't mistake it for anything else on your desktop.
That's true. There's a lot of media players just very logically have a movie slate or a musical note
or something, you know, and they all kind of look the same. Yeah, what the heck is that?
Yeah, a traffic cone. You see it, you know, no matter when it's traffic cone.
You're like, there it is. That's the program I wanted.
Yeah, of course, I've heard they have quite an impressive collection at VLC of traffic cones.
I don't think France has any more on the streets. Well, hey, if you're going to play with VLC,
you definitely want to play with AUG also. And maybe you want to go check out playAUG.org.
Yeah, I think it's right. It's going to be a FSF sub site, isn't it?
Yeah, it's from Freedom Software Foundation. They've kind of have an AUG campaign going.
And they're not proud. They'll let Microsoft and Apple use it too.
Yeah, that's all the web. First result. We just had slash traffic cones.
All the web knows what I'm talking about.
If you're going to all the web. AUG. Yeah, I'm not stupid.
And as far as playAUG.org monster B, we need to help promote them. How would you like to put
their icon on the kit radio dot info site? Yeah, we can put that on there.
As soon as I do an upgrade to the website, I'll throw it on there.
Yeah, they've got four different icons you can have there, depending on the size and how fancy you want.
I find it kind of hard to believe that Windows and Apple don't include AUG,
Vargas Codex because of copyright concerns.
It's just striking that it's much more just the regents on their part.
I think typically you hear there's possibilities of patent restrictions and stuff like that,
but I just I wonder about that. It seems to me that Vargas is pretty well established as being
free at this point. Yeah, I think when those are just doing it or Microsoft, just the control
your music, but they don't want you encoding your collection in the AUG. Yeah, even your personal stuff
that you're getting in your garage bands and your various other music cleaners. But isn't that
what it comes down to? They've spent millions of millions of dollars trying to get people to implement
WMA and Apple have spent millions of dollars on their use. What do they use? I know they use
M-O-V for movies or whatever it is. What do they use for audio content?
Well, yeah, quick time in AAC is the one that they're pushing right now, but
or in for A and in for P. I think they've got a couple of different ones actually.
They're big into MPEG 4, but they're also big into how they can possibly do RN the format.
So it's kind of like outwardly there that sort of here's our open standards compliant stuff,
but then behind the scenes turns out they're inserting all this DR in into it. But yeah, I do think
you're right. I think that they're trying to make their own big stamp of approval codex,
like the de facto formats. You know, they want to be the big codex brand on the block for whatever
Well, theoretically, that you can't play WMA files in Linux.
Tenor. Played just fine on the VLC. Yeah, but you're not supposed to, are you? You have to
use that Win32 codec pack, which is either illegal or illegal, depending on who you talk to.
As far as I know, the only Linux distribution you could legally play WMA on was Linspire.
Didn't they have their big court case with Microsoft and they lost?
Well, Microsoft lost and part of the deal was that Linspire got to use the WMA Cadix.
I don't know about that. That sounds pretty cool though.
Yeah, I'm sure if you go and look at the history of it, and they could act in that
clicking month's door, there was stuff for sale.
Is that codec even popular?
Oh, shit. WMA. Yeah.
Well, obviously MP3 is a hell of a lot more popular, because every single device you buy plays
bloody MP3, but with those media, Audio Cadix is actually a pretty good Cadix, isn't it?
Like for space and, you know, file size and quality?
It's not bad. I mean, in my experience, which has been limited, but they come across it every now and
again. Yeah, quite often, it seems that it's pretty low. You know, all the stuff seems pretty good.
And since we're on a topic of media players and codecs, does, from the chatroom,
posted a media player called GogglesMM to roll that in the show notes, that,
that looks pretty good. Goggles Music Manager, that's what it's called. Never heard of that one.
No, I hadn't heard that either. Looks pretty nice.
It's the GPL version 3, that's kind of neat. Yeah, it looks like it could be cool.
I might give it a shot sometime. Do you have a topic, Clot 2?
Yes, I do. And then the topic is actually multimedia related as well.
It turns out that there's a cool little pearl script if you get the latest. I think,
I think as of today, which is February, it was 6th, 2010. I think it's the latest Linux,
Linux Pro Magazine. There is a little article in there that marks surely about a pearl script
that he wrote for what I call video forensics. I don't know if it's technical or if there's a
term for it, but where you not to find out information about video files and stuff. And a lot of
this stuff you can get kind of like from metadata or whatever, you know, which we've covered before,
I think. The service is a little bit harder to get and previously I've always done it with
VLC, because if you start up a movie in VLC and you open up the information window and VLC,
it gives you all kinds of cool information. But there's a cool little pearl script with this guy
wrote that you can download and install. And it's brilliant. It gives you all the information
about a video file. Just one screen in your terminal. It gives you everything from frame size to
bitrate to framerate to the codec that it was using. Just everything you could ever want to know.
And it's really, really cool. And I will hop.
They finally got them. I think the mothership just arrived. I should probably type in that we lost them.
Just in case he's still talking. Maybe he's still talking. I like Dan when he meets him. So
that's frustrating when you keep getting disconnected. Wow, he snowed under anyway.
There he is. Yes, sorry about that. How much did that come through?
I think you were just about ready to give us the link.
Okay, yes. So I just pasted the link into the IRC channel. And it's just basically an FTP. You
can just FTP in public folder of Linux Magazine and download the pearl script. There's a couple
of different dependencies like other pearl modules that you need that those are really easily
gotten from Cpan. So you just kind of install it and then you can run it against any video file.
And it gives you, like I said, basically all the information you could ever want from a video file
really, really handy. And there really isn't that much code.
Yeah, no, it's it's it's I mean, like I said, there are some dependencies. So maybe there's more
more code in there, but yeah, it seems like seems pretty simple. I've kind of impressed with
pearl lately. I've been downloading various pearl scripts and running them and just I don't
know, I get really amazed that all the things are able to do with that thing. And not to
pimp my own site, but if you go to slacker media that info, you can find installation tips
on that site. It's called video dash meta is the name of the pearl script. So if you do a search
for video dash meta, you'll get installation tips if you need it. And speaking of slacker media,
so how's that going? That's going really well, actually. It's I think the text for it is
basically pretty much all done. It's just a big, if people don't know, it's a big tutorial on how
to set up limits really, but I specifically did it on software for modern media use. And then
they're also kind of I'm hoping that it teaches you a little bit about how it all works together
and how to get things, you know, kind of actually talking to each other, different music applications,
actually interacting with one another stuff like that. So it needs to be a little bit better
organized. It's not terribly organized right now, but I am working on that and I'm also working
on porting it over to just pure XML and doc book so that I can make it into a PDF as well as a
proper website or a website book almost. But it's yeah, it's looking really good. There's
instructions on all kinds of stuff like real-time kernel, how to patch a kernel and compile it
to be real-time, how to start a DAW, get all your soft synths going within that, how to install,
you know, custom compile fsin bags for the greatest flexibility, just all kinds of different stuff.
I'm going to see you have a live Slack build on here. That's the one that you put together, isn't it?
Yeah, well, you know, like everyone and their mother makes the next distribution,
I figured if I was going to do something kind of like, kind of like, it was sort of a distribution,
which Slack immediate isn't, but I like to call it a distribution from text. I figured I should
probably do a little bit of work, you know, like, actual work. So yeah, I did a live Slack build,
I did a three-talk Slack build and a hand-break Slack build and I think another one.
So if you are using Slack or if you want a really easy way to install some of these applications
that I talk about, you can just FBOPKG or however you want to do it and install those applications.
And right now, the lives one is the most current build. It's the patched build that they released
fairly recently, so it's the latest and greatest. Well, obviously, yeah, when I heard the Clutter
made the Slack build for lives, I was interested to try it out and I did install it and had no trouble
at all installing it, but I didn't really have a play around with it until this morning when I come
home, I thought I want to give this lives a go. It's a little bit different, I've played close
all the web pages in there, thanks. It's a little bit different in that it opens up in this
Eclipse clip view instead of the traditional timeline view that I've been used to.
Now, honestly, I don't really understand the clip view of what their intention was with it,
whether it was supposed to make it easier to use, which is sort of what you would think.
It's where you import the clips and you can do stuff to, I wasn't even sure what you could do to
them because I'm quite happy to import clips in the timeline view and then start editing in there.
So what I found I had to import the clips in there, then I had to switch over to the timeline view
and start actually doing the editing. The other thing I found was it's compared to Cadene Live,
it's a little bit slower. Well, actually, it's not a little bit slower, it's a fair bit slower.
I actually thought my machine had closed it, froze a few times before I was actually about to
bloody drop down to the command line at 2TY2 or whatever and killed a bloody pro, maybe I thought
it had frozen that bad. But I think given the time, once I get more familiar with it and that's
half my problem is just not being quite familiar. I think I'll enjoy it a lot more.
It certainly would function to do what the majority of people want to do that.
I'm curious, Peter, 64. What do you see? You're running a live software system.
Did you do a custom compile of anything like clips or not custom compile of clips?
Did you have everything installed or did you custom compile like in-train stuff?
No, the other thing I did a custom compile of was with FFMP because I needed the aim, aim
our support in that. Well, why do you think it has an impact?
Yeah, I was going to say. That wouldn't affect it.
Yeah, with lives, I actually can't remember quite to what dependencies were there,
but it actually wasn't very hard to get it running.
Well, it doesn't use that MLT framework, does it?
No. Maybe that's why it's a bit slower.
Quite possibly. That's a good point.
Yeah, just think of that. But once again, don't get me wrong either.
Don't take this as gospel because really I've only started playing around with it today.
I did pop up a message saying I needed to increase the hard
space for something at one stage, which sounded like it was using the hard
space as a swap file. Sort of anything wrong.
Well, it only suggested to increase it to a hundred meag.
And I thought with three gig of RAM and I wasn't paying any attention to how much RAM I was using,
I was more interested in just reading through the tutorials and that sourceboards
and getting used to the program more than actually doing anything at the moment.
The only other problem I had too was
quickly opening up the bloody read me so because I don't call it a timeline view or
I just want to get back to the first view is called a clip view, I think.
Yeah, there's the clip editor and then there's the multi-track editor.
Yeah, that's it. That's what they call the timeline.
Yeah, like I said, the multi-track editor and the other thing too, which as I need to rectify,
is that when you're in the multi, I'm going to call it a timeline view.
Timeline view, you cannot preview audio unless you have pulse audio or jack installed,
which is a bit of a pain considering it works fine in open shot and cat in life when you're doing
that sort of stuff. Yeah, that's a little bit surprising, but then again, I don't know
anything about this sort of thing. I always just assumed that jack was required to keep it
frame rate, you know, really truly constant frame rate between the audio and the video,
but now that you mention it, KDM Live does that just fine, so good point. I'm not sure what's
going on there. Well, once again, that's going to be to do with that MLT framework or I can
all list. Yeah, I've got your, I'm sure you're right. What's MLT, maybe a Linux somewhere
other? I can't remember what it stands for anymore. Yeah, it's something like that. Yeah.
Cloud 2, is this blackboard going to keep you pretty busy? Well, actually, it has been lately because
the guy, the developer, you released like four different versions all within like two months,
but really a track build isn't that complex, so it's not, I mean, it's not like I'm a packageer
now. You know, I just, when he releases any version, I'll make the changes as needed, test it,
and submit it for an update, and then it'll be updated, and that's pretty much it. The
wise one was the most complex one I've done because there was a little patch that needed to be
done before it could, you know, before it would build properly. So that was actually the most
complex one, but otherwise it's, it's all pretty simple. It's just a shell script. The only
dependency for it is GDK picks up whatever the hell that is. No, that's the only dependency
on top of what comes by default with GDK or anyway. Oh, I agree. Yeah, if you put it on something
else, you never know. Yeah, right. Yeah, it was a very simple installation. It was at all the
video editors I've played with. It was definitely the easiest to get running. I've tried
for bloody days to get Kate in life to run under Slackware. Oh, yeah, I remember that.
Yeah, I don't think I've tried it on Slackware 13. I hope to God that it's a little bit easier
because it didn't matter what I did with bloody in 12.1. I couldn't get it to run. I had all the
dependencies, everything. It just would crash. Oh, I could ever bring up what's the splash
grade. I got farther than that, but I never felt like I was getting all that much from my travel,
you know, because it was never that easy. And then looking at rise and seeing how easy it was to
install and get things up and running, I was just, I just kind of switched, you know, I was like,
why bother with Katie in life at this point? I mean, maybe when they're, when it's easier to install
it and when it's a bit more polished, but for now, I'm kind of a blinder editor with lives,
kind of on the shelf waiting to be played around with more. Yeah, I must admit just, and this is
once again, only based on the very short time I've played with lives. I would take Kate in life,
over lives purely on the performance base for what I've seen so far. It just happens to be too slow.
But did you mention that it was HD video as well? Because I have not seen performance problems
that I'm not doing HD. Yeah, well, okay. Yeah, I was doing a 720p film off a HD cam quarter.
However, it's the same cam quarter that I import video with in both open shot. I may not have
edited actually high-defin open shop, but definitely Kate in life. But again, so for those who
are not cool? Yeah, exactly, yep. So that could be the big one, eh? But at once again, it's just,
just goes to show you what's out there that there's something for everybody. And on someone's
particular system, you know, it might be faster than Kate in life. You wouldn't know. Snacky's
asked me if I've tried it on Arch. And the problem I found with Arch with any video editing software
is the fact that it'll work today. And then tomorrow, I'll do an update. And unfortunately,
it must be something that libraries have been updated. And I tried to run Kate in life or
open shot or PDV, and they just, they won't work. And you cannot rely on it. So what I've
thought, and I got this idea from Slack and Media, was because I don't update or install a lot
of stuff on my Slackware machine, that I'm going to make it my multimedia distribution. And just
have it for video editing. Because I know with Slackware, if I get something set up to work today,
it's going to be working next month. Yeah. Can you build in more? Yeah. I mean, I know about
Slackware about being 994 or whatever. I actually do enjoy Slackware when I'm in the mood for it.
Yeah. Well, I mean, I'm typically in the mood for it. But, you know, if I wasn't in the mood for it,
the times that I would enjoy it would be when, when I was setting up a system for a specific
purpose, like mostly a media, or I don't know, desktop publishing, or something. A production,
like, must turn this on, must work without issue kind of situation. Whereas all the other ones,
I mean, I view them more as like distributions to play around on, you know. And it kind of helps me
almost divide the two from each other, you know. So I can play around on my Fedora box. And
there's something breaks because of something stupid I did, or because something a little bit too
cutting edge that they did, it doesn't really matter. Whereas on Slackware, I just don't do stupid stuff
on it. And then they're not going to do anything stupid on it. So it works. Yeah, exactly. Yep.
Perfect. I like this packaging system, the package manager. In Slackware? Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, I started to, I'd never really dealt into it. But once you start looking at it, it's a very
good package manager, actually. I don't know. The only thing you've mentioned when you've talked
about on the bad apples is you're the actual manager. Whereas in you manage the dependencies,
where you're going to get them from, whether you're going to pull the ones from SVN down and
compile them, or whether you're going to go to the Slack builds and grab them, whatever. And you know
exactly what's going into your system. Yeah. I like that. Yeah. With Arch, I have a tendency when I
get bored to quickly peruse you are and have a quick look and say, Oh, yeah, that looks like I'll
have a look at that. And I store it. And then I go into the next thing and next upgrade I find out
I've got like two and a half give up dates waiting for me because I've got everything installed
in the kitchen seat. And that never happens in Slack way. Yeah. I mean, not unless you like
switch over a current and sit there and update an upgrade, you know, every day or something.
Yeah. Well, that's something I definitely wouldn't do with Slack. Yeah. I mean, I do. I'm sometimes
I'll do that, but not again, not on my, not on my real Slack or machine. Yeah. Even with Slack
or current, it's very stable compared to some other distributions. Yeah. Yeah. That's true.
Well, let's let's move on to J-man. What do you got for us? I've had a quick mention of a podcast
called the change log show. Their website is the change log dot com, but for some reason I don't
think the the feed over there has just the podcast in it. So if you go over to get hub dot com slash
explorer, that RSS feed has just the episode in it. And the shows basically about open source
development, different technologies that are in that area, you know, last show they they discuss
things like connecting into MongoDB with closure, jQuery validation, the JavaScript implementation
of fly actually called Gordon, you know, just different development topics like that.
It's a real geeky podcast. So you'd have to be into that sort of thing. This sounds pretty cool.
Is it like a GitHub, it's the GitHub podcast event or is it just hosted on GitHub? I'm not sure
about the connection there. Okay. They've had a guest on before from GitHub. Okay. But I'm not
sure how they're related to that, but their feed is on GitHub dot com slash explorer. So I assume
there is some connection with the player. The player is right in that page. Cool. I'm going to have to
add that to my master partner. Can't that come doing it right now? Did you set that link?
Glad to have posted in there that it was just referring back to that the multimedia cadets for
Windows and that. Lens buyer got the Windows Media 10 cadets, the Microsoft two tight fonts,
and about $20 million. This goes back to when they used to be called Lindows. The Microsoft
suit them for the Lindows name. Yeah. You know, back when it's a cavity or whatever you
name as the CEO of it all. So you wonder what happened if they end up got the rights to all that,
what happened to it all? Does Lindows have a question? No, no. I think there's a lot of questions
about what happened to all the stuff that Linds buyer either acquired or had. I think to be a big drama.
These are not the big drama, but it seems to be a source of drama for the Linds buyer people.
What didn't Zantrol's buy them? Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. They got bought up and there were accusations that
some of the people were running off with Linds buyer money or something or the sales of the
company or something. I don't know. It's a big mess. Yeah. I remember some of it. Yeah.
It went to trying to sell that click and run, stored to other distributions too. I think it
opened source to do something and let other distributions have it, I think. Or maybe you
could buy it from them. I don't know. I don't really recall. Let's say an ask. It looks like it's still
high here. You can go there and buy stuff. Someone's still got it. I just searched for Linds buyer on
all the web and it says to please refer to Google. Oh, shit. He will fall for it.
How am I going to buy some Tadex while I'm over here from a Slack box?
That'll be a waste of money. This is all C&R-wise, really. It's just a website where you could
use it in style. Yeah, well, and don't get this is my old memory. But click and run when they sold
Linds buyer, I think I always thought that Carmody bloke kept the click and run side separate.
And that was a totally different business that he was going to try to sell to some of the other
distributions. Yeah, I think you might be right. I kind of very good recall stuff about that,
like interviews with him on shows like two years ago or so. Where are we ready for the
command of the week? We are ready for the command of the week. All right, class two starts off.
All right, my command of the week this week is where it's an SFH flag and well-known SFH-X,
right, to forward the accession to the screen that you're actually looking at.
Well, there is an SFH-Y which forwards X but as a trusted connection, so that basically it's
supposed to be from what I've heard and I haven't actually been in the research to verify it,
but it's supposed to be a little bit like quicker to send the information because we don't have
a bunch of security verification going back and forth. It assumes, you know, after you SSH
over, give your password or you have your SSH key or whatever you're doing it. It says, okay,
this is a trusted connection and it doesn't worry so much about the, you know, verifying the security
settings or whatever. So it's supposed to be a little bit easier on the bandwidth, I guess.
So that's my command of the week, SSH-Y and whatever server you're SSH-Y.
Now, I never used the dash X. What can you actually do with that? I mean, what kind of apps
are you launching? You can launch anything like if I've got a server or a computer across the room
right now, I could SSH-X over into it and like it's in that terminal, I could launch like, you know,
K-Rite and the K-Rite in the middle would open up on my screen or I could launch a vital
app or whatever, really. Yeah, I typically use 40-year accession when I'm working on the
myth box because I don't have a monitor on it. Sometimes I want to run the GUI myth TV setup,
so you just run your SSH space dash X, IP address and colon zero, isn't it to get it to come over
and display on your particular desktop? Yeah, that I used to use it a lot.
Even to run Conqueror from the myth box, I used to display it so I could move
larger video, lots of video files around before I got, you know, started using SSH-FS
and, you know, and mounting drives and stuff like that. I don't use it as much as I used to.
That's pretty neat. Is there anything special you have to set up on the other machine?
No, no. You have to have X installed on the other machine. Well, actually, I get you don't,
really. So you don't even need X running? I'm trying to think now because I know you don't,
because the X that it's using is your X server, so you wouldn't need X on the remote machine.
I don't know if I've ever tried it. I'm not 100% sure. Yeah, I'm trying to say, I don't
don't need a machine I've ever set up without X as the Astrics box. Well,
modern machines have X on them. I could try it later on my free BSC box. I don't have, well,
I don't even have X installed, so I wouldn't have any X apps. Oh, you get installed on either
you're not, I mean, just, but it's going to pull down on how much you don't see, right? It's
going to pull down all of that. Can you get some, can you just download the source of like
XPDF or something and install that? We could search on all the web to see if you do need X installed
on all search on Clostancy. I'll probably get better results. I don't know what it is about
that all the web. I just don't like it. But I like the name. I hate the name. I don't like the
look of it, but I do like it. It doesn't look like Yahu's front page. And I hate that color.
It's very attractive. Yeah, the colors are really horrible. I'm telling you, Mustardy, if you're
going to do a CFF, this is the kind of thing you're going to start doing. Modifying the pages
on the browser side. That's the power of a web browser. If you're not going to take advantage of
that one, you just use a link or something. But I don't think I would have to like customize
a web page just to use all the web when I don't like it to be in web. But you'll learn to like it
after you've gone to all that trouble to customize it. I'll just use Closty and be done with it.
We're Google. I don't have a problem with Google. So, matter of fact, I'm going to search for my
social security number right now. Well, that was a very interesting command class, too. I'm going
to have to try it later. I'm interested to see what it looks like. Is there any lags? Yes,
there might be. Yeah, depends on what kind of application you are trying to use. Actually,
I don't think I'm going to try it because I can't think of a reason why I would need it.
Yeah, I mean, it's not something I use every day, but especially at one of my new jobs,
I use EMAX for a lot. And I mean, you'd think, okay, EMAX, you can run that without X. But
there are some customizations and stuff that they've been to, not customizations, but they're.EMAX
file really, really takes advantage of a lot of the X features. And so, we run it with X. But
we run it also with the development server. So, you know, it's just the best way to do it. We use
the SSH-Y to minimize the lag time, actually. Well, it is pretty neat. It's good to know in case
I do any of it. We say, no, it's there. Yeah, it's nice. And I'm sure you know it.
Somebody listening to this is probably saying, thinking it's pretty neat. So, hopefully,
somebody can get some use out of it. All right, let's move on to EMAX. Okay. Well, for anybody's
using awesome out there, I know you've messed up your configured file. Well, while you're learning
to get around in it, but there's a quick and dirty way to test a configured file before you
actually loaded up and try to run it. And that's with the awesome Dash C. And you've the file name
and followed up with a Dash C. And it'll go through and it'll test out the configured file. And
if it has a bad line, which is easy to do and a little files, but the syntax is a little weird
sometimes. And it'll give you a line number where it fails. And it'll try to tell you exactly what
failed in it. But it makes it off easy to go back through and find where you messed up your
configuration. And you can do all this before you lose your present configuration and get
run back to default somewhere. Good idea. That's about two weeks too light-ass. You could have
told me that one before. Well, I did, but you weren't watching an IRC. Yeah, I did.
And trust me, I've used it too. Well, you don't want to tell you it is to get used to the
Lua configure or Lua syntax with popping out the line number where you screwed up. It just
makes it so much easier. Yeah, it is because it's a lot of easy to stuff it up. Isn't it just
the common in the wrong spot? Well, but after you screw it up and find where you screwed it up,
while all of a sudden it starts clicking what you got to do and that syntax keep it right.
It was just short and sweet. Go ahead. Is anyone running a distribution that has screen able to
split screen vertically by default? If you run screen in Terminator, you can split the
thing, can't you? Yeah, but that's Terminator. I mean, I could split screen in
conflict, too. I'm sure, but I'm talking about playing vanilla screen, making a new split,
vertically, anywhere, or you have to patch it because I've read that some distributions patch it
and allow the vertical functionality and playing vanilla does not. I'm just curious what
distributions those are. I'm just curious. Yeah, I wouldn't have a clue. I'm just happy to get
back into my screen session. If I can do that, I'm happy me. You can set that up. You can set
that up in screen configuration. If you want to do a vertical split when you start it,
you can put a lot of stuff in the screen of what the dot screen RC file. I don't think in the
plain to no one as you could be right and I could be totally wrong, but I was researching it and
it looked like you needed a patch to get the vertical screen split function. Well, you may have to
go ahead and open a program in your screen RC and then split it, but I'm sure it'll work in
a screen RC file. Interesting. I look into it. It's worth a try anyway. Yeah.
Whenever I open screen, I always open it with programs. It's not a big deal there.
Maybe even easier just to install a DBTM and use that inside of screen rather than patch screen
itself. That's a good point. Okay. I didn't mean to sidetrack us or anything. I was just curious.
How in the heck do we get from awesome to screen? I have no idea. I just was curious about screen.
My fault. I didn't mean to sidetrack us. Well, speaking of screen. They're both awesome programs
with screens. There you go. On the last episode of Lennox and Hamshack, Russ talked about screen
at the end for like 10, 15 minutes. It was pretty good. Do you guys hear that? I haven't heard
that my podcast for this week yet, but I'll probably listen to them tomorrow and stuff.
Yeah, they're doing a great job over there. Yeah, they are. That's a really good show. You don't
know like a lot of it. I don't understand in terms of like the radio stuff. It really is a cool
show. Yeah, they're like, uh, they can't stay on topic and they they may start with radios,
but they're exactly the same time. Yeah. Yeah. That's good to see Dave Yates is back too.
You put another happy. Yeah. Yeah, I was missing all the road noise.
Well, we have airplane noises tonight. Hey, does that make us late? It does.
All right, awesome command. Asmith, let's move on to G-man.
Yeah, I was going to mention at it's another schedule for like Cron, but at is you would more
likely use it if you were just going to do something once rather than every day. And the time
specification you can use actual like real words to specify this rather than going into the
Cron configuration. Like you can say at now plus three hours do this or at three p.m. tomorrow,
something like that. But you got to start the the app service of course at the just like Cron
D. And you got commands like at Q and at RM, which look up jobs and delete jobs. So it's pretty
simple to get used to. That's cool. I could definitely use that one because there's almost
getting something to do. And then I'll sit down where I'll just keep working. And then the time
just flies by. And if I could like set up an app to just do something like echo, echo, you know,
how you've got an appointment right now. That would be great. Could you set up a Cron job to start?
Diamond. Jamie? No joke. That's like running screen within screen.
Anybody that it's ever SSH then to a screen session within a screen session running on your local
machine. You'll know that screen gets very confused when you start sending it commands because
it don't know which one it's supposed to get at that. You know how I say T time and you
Blake's wondering what I'm talking about. And I had to explain it to dinner. Did you realize that
you can set up the app command to run it by the midnight noon or T time? So I'm not going to
any person who says it. No, look at that. That's that's 4 p.m. right? No, it's six o'clock. Do you have
T? According to a man page it's 4 p.m. in theater. No, it's going to take one ticket right this bloody
program. Where's bloody T? It's four in the afternoon. A German. I don't know. That's the English.
That's might be what time you lied to Barbie. But you don't check the meet-on until six.
Did everybody get their command in? Yeah. No. No.
All right, Peter, what do you got for it? No, I'm going to peel potatoes. Bye.
That was just like the first show that I had.
This thing shows them one big outtake.
But I tell you now you think they're shit and when you see them and cut it out,
they actually don't come out okay. No, you're right. You're right.
Yeah, absolutely right. Yeah. It's such a degree that I actually listen to them again.
You know, like, you know, I was on the thing. I still listen and get more out of it, I think.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, you go back and say, I can't believe we said that.
Just checking a good theme song at the end and a little bit of a good show.
Mike, I mean, yeah, okay, just quickly. Going back on the awesome. This isn't specific to awesome,
but when X prop is my command and what that obviously is short for us, the X properties,
it's a utility display for displaying window and font properties on the X server.
What I've used this for is when you want applications to start on specific
desktops or workspaces or tabs, or depending what windows manage you're using,
you often have to find out the actual window name. And without that, you're struggled to get
it to pop over to the right desktop. And just quickly, it'll be X prop, then pipe,
grab, space, dash, eye, space, class. And that will bring up that WM class string,
whatever that is. And it'll actually give you the windows name, which quite well.
It seems to be, but probably not typical. It is the actual command that starts it by conversations.
Windows name is conversation with a capital K. And unless you use that name, you cannot send that
to a workspace when it starts. But I'm sure it can be used for a lot more than that.
As if you type it in and then your cursor becomes...
Yeah, and click on the window that you want to find out what the name is.
Okay, okay, see.
And then when you're like, flexbox and awesome both, you need to put that name in
when you're setting up your configuration files. And I'd imagine it's exactly the same in KDE
and shit like that as well. Interesting.
Yeah, when you've been around as long as me, Clad 2,
you know, the right people are asked, because JLNG told me he had to find that out.
Could you pop that in the chat room for everyone?
Yeah, I was just looking. JLNG, how do you cut and paste?
Thanks, Clad 2.
Yeah, one more awesome version to it at the moment.
And once again, I'm hitting all those key strikes that don't do anything.
Snacky say an x-clip, which I take it as similar.
You know, that's for copying and pasting.
Oh, I see. What are you talking about?
I don't have it.
Well, I think it's time to wrap this mess up. What do you think?
I hit the year at end, but yeah, I think you're right.
I think we're at the end.
We're getting warmed up.
Come on.
Yeah, good on that.
We're hitting the asteroid now.
I think I should attempt some upcoming events.
Let's come up for the next one.
Month or two, yeah, PyCon coming up February 17th through 25th in Orlando, Georgia.
Skill 8x, February 19th through the 21st in Los Angeles, California.
Floresch, March 19th and 20th in Chicago.
Texas Lennox Fest, April 10th in Austin, Texas.
And Lennox Fest, Northwest, April 24th and 25th in Bellingham, Washington.
A lot of stuff coming up.
Yeah, it was.
And our email address is feedback at titradio.info.
And check out the show notes at titradio.info.
And it's time for Terry F's song of the week.
It's going to be a country song, Peter.
Thanks, Terry.
This will be the first one I'll listen to then.
Okay, I'll talk to you guys in a couple weeks.
Okay.
Yeah, everyone.
Good night.
Tada.
Good night.
Hey, this is Terry from The Juice Penguin.
On the last tit radio, there was a request by Peter 64 for some country music.
While I rummaged around and I found some,
this is a song by Hank Grant.
It's called Stuck Again.
And Peter 64, this one's yours.
We'd had about three weeks of rain,
when suddenly I got this pain to get,
my four-wheel drive out in the lift.
Now me and Tim had dipped a few,
that for a minute stuff caught through,
and I said Tim,
get out and mop those hooks.
There we were in the middle of the night,
slinging mud,
left them my drink,
and beer and having so much fun.
When all at once we heard a thud,
there we were,
but a deep and mud,
and we proud out to see what we had done.
We're stuck again.
Stuck again.
Having so much fun,
it oughta been your sin.
I can't help it,
little money,
I need your truck.
You got that right,
me and Tim,
we're stuck,
so help us money.
We're stuck again.
I need your truck.
My wife said,
honey,
it's a sin,
as much as you're stuck.
You need a win.
I'm gonna get you one for your anniversary.
So she bought me one of those fancy jobs,
silver table,
and all promos,
it was the prettiest thing I'd ever seen.
Then one night at half past 10,
there we were,
me and Tim drank,
and beer and having ourselves a part.
I'm fine.
And I don't believe our dang look
wasn't long till we were stuck.
My witch was home against the bedroom walk.
Stuck again.
Stuck again.
We're having so much fun,
it oughta be your sin.
I call it hello,
money,
I need your truck.
You got that right,
me and Tim,
we're stuck,
so help us money.
We're stuck again.
There's no way we can get stuck.
We'll just went out from the new street.
Between our legs was a can of bud
We finally got out to the mud
Tim said, man, this is a place to be
It was Teflon's lick and bellied deep
Out among it we did creepin' to all those watcher we did stand
But it didn't take long we couldn't bud
Tim growled out there in the mud
And hollered, hanged, there ain't no trees around
We're stuck again, stuck again
That was a muds fun and oughta be a sin
Oh, hello, money, I need you to get better at me
Tim, we're stuck so help us money
We're stuck again, stuck again, stuck again
Stuck again
Help us money
We're stuck again
We're stuck again
Oh
Thank you for listening to Hack with Public Radio
HPR is sponsored by caro.net
So head on over to see aro.nc for all of us in need
Thanks for watching
