Episode: 27
Title: HPR0027: How to Record a HPR episode
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0027/hpr0027.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 10:26:50

---

music
Welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I'm your host Enigma and I will be talking today about basically how to record an episode
of Hacker Public Radio.
Yes, yes, I know this has been done before on pretty much every podcast known to man,
however, I'm going to go over it just because Hacker Public Radio is a little bit different
than any other podcast.
As everyone knows, we have a list of hosts, we produce a show every day, however everybody
does it a little bit differently how they record.
I'm going to tell you how I record, not to say this is the correct way, this is just
how I do it to make life easy.
I use a free software called Audacity and basically I have it on both my Windows boxes
and my Linux box.
It can run on Linux Windows and Mac OS X and I use it because it's fairly intuitive and
it's free.
I know other hosts use various software packages but Audacity is easy for me so that's
what I'm going to explain.
When you get into Audacity, I just use everything all the defaults for my shows.
I use Mono 44,100 Hertz as my default bitrate.
I know Stank uses a lower bitrate because it's better quality, however, I just use all
the defaults and my shows come out fairly well.
I can't hear much of a difference but I'm no audio guy so don't take my word for it.
Once I get done recording a show, there are an intro and outro that I'll have in the
show notes that you can download and tag on to your Audacity file by basically going
into my version of Audacity.
I go to Project and then Import Audio.
The newer versions of Audacity have it under the file layout.
I know my new Ubuntu distribution has the newest version of Audacity that they've changed
a few things so I'm going to talk about the older version of Audacity and I'm sure you
can figure it out.
After you import both the outro and the intro, I just basically move my show in between
the two and then basically just go to File and then Export as MP3 and I'm pretty much
done.
The only caveat with Audacity is you have to download the lame library and there's
different, it's different for each distribution.
I just on my Ubuntu box, just go AppGet install lib lame.dev and lib lame I believe.
I have to install those two packages on the OS X and Windows versions.
You can go right to the Audacity page and download the links from there and that's pretty
much it.
Also, you have to add your ID3 tags and the format we use for HackerPublicRadio is we
do HPR and then the number in the title and then dash whatever the show name is and then
artist would obviously be your name and then the album is HPR Season 1.
And then once we go a year we'll Season 2 and so on and so forth.
But other than that, that's pretty much it.
Have a good day and we will see you tomorrow on another episode of HackerPublicRadio.
Thank you for listening to HackerPublicRadio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net so head on over to C-A-R-O dot E-T for all of us in the
