Episode: 952
Title: HPR0952: How I cut The Cable Cord Part 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0952/hpr0952.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 05:27:47

---

Hello Hacker Public Radio, this is just Brockton Bob again.
This is part 2 of my 3 parts series on how I cut the cable cord.
Now if you recall in part 1 we installed the Rho Crew 2 XD set top box.
This was a simple setup and it was a wife friendly.
Now part 2 we are going to build upon that by adding a second set top box.
I got the NetGear Digital Entertainer Live.
But you can also use an Xbox, a Playstation or a Western Digital Live TV Box.
They are all good choices.
You also need a network connected PC and it has to be running Windows.
This is because you are going to be running Play On Server software.
And last episode I failed to mention that you need an HD antenna when you cut your cable cord.
I didn't buy one, I made one of my own, it is the Bowtie antenna from Make Magazine.
If you would like to make this antenna, just go to Google and type Bowtie antenna and
you will be able to find the Make Magazine copy of it.
The cost of this antenna was about $5 just for the connectors.
So the body of it I used coat hangers and a piece of 2x4.
When it was all done I plugged it into my TV and it worked beautifully.
It picks up all my local stations crystal clear.
So let's continue.
You will also need an RF modulator because you will have two set top boxes connected to
your TV.
I got my RF modulator from Walmart for $12.
It is an ACA with room for 4 inputs.
So if you wanted to, you could have up to 4 devices on your TV.
I have 3 because I have a DVD installed also.
Now you are going to go to your PC and use Google one more time in the search bot type in Play
On Server software.
In the search you will find you will be able to click on the first link and download the
software and install it.
I suggest getting the Play On Premium software for a lifetime license.
It is only $49.99 and that is a lifetime license.
You get all the upgrades and updates.
It gives you all the channels that they offer.
Then you can get even more channels by clicking the links on the play on page.
You can get channels from playonscrips.com and playonpluggins.com.
So once you have done downloading all the software, you are going to plug in your digital
entertainer live or whatever box you choose.
Now this box has a network connector jack.
So it is hard wired to my router.
It uses broadband.
Once it starts up, you will see all the choices that you have with Play On.
So click on something and you will be able to sit back and enjoy a lot of TV.
Now on the digital entertainer live, you will notice you have two USB ports.
What are they good for?
Well, you can install a USB hard drive.
I have a one terabyte hard drive made by Western Digital installed.
You can use the hard drive to store music.
I have about three gigs of music on mine.
And you can install all your digital photos and watch them on TV as a slideshow.
And boy, pictures look good on a wide screen big TV.
And you can also backup all your DVDs to the hard drive and make copies of everything.
No more lost DVDs.
In my last count, I had over 200 full length movies.
Now in part three of my series, I will tell you how I use my PC to download all the TV
I want going to website called easytv.it.
And you will put it on your external hard drive and watch it using your net ksceptop box
using Play On software.
So thanks for listening.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, or Hacker Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicom Computer
Club.
HBR is funded by the Binary Revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are crowd-responsive
by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments, attribution,
share a life, Strategy does our own license.
