Episode: 138
Title: HPR0138: Bee Soft Commander
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0138/hpr0138.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 12:16:31

---

.
Hey, it's Steve Geek and welcome to another episode of Hack-A-Public Radio.
Today, another now ongoing series of lightweight applications.
The lightweight application series is open to all contributors to Hack-A-Public Radio
and is operating system agnostic.
Today, I want to review for you BeSoft Commander, also known as PackageName BSC,
if you want to do an apt-get install BSC is the way to get it.
BeSoft Commander is a QT-based file manager based on the old Midnight Commander file manager.
So, well, there's a mouthful. What do those things mean? Well, QT-based.
You know, there's the GNOME desktop and then there's the KDE desktop and there's, you know,
a bunch of lightweight window managers.
That means that all the graphics in this set are really made to go with the KDE,
but I don't run KDE anymore, but it happens to just like this particular file manager.
So, what I mean by it's a Midnight Commander style. Well, it's one of these things where
you kick it off and you get your graphical window, which is the application,
and there's two columns of files.
And you can change the directories for either half of the screen and then you highlight files
and you can move them back or forth or delete them or, you know, all the different functions it has.
But BeSoft Commander is more than just a graphical version of a kind of old style, you know,
80 by 24 column text mode file manager.
It doesn't just purify it. It does a few things more that I really like.
One of the things I really like is that the package has a drop-down menu called Languages.
And this program is ready to go and whatever language you happen to be familiar with.
It does Czechoslovakian, German, English, Polish, Russian and Spanish.
So, with the click of a mouse, all the commands and all the boxes and all the things that are displayed
changes to the language that you know best.
So, the other thing I like about Midnight Commander is that it has a built-in FTP client.
So, you can kick off a manage FTP connection, FTP connect, click new,
type it, get a bookmark going for FTP site you use frequently.
And then you can just choose that one and one of the panels becomes the remote file system you need to access.
Fantastic. So, not only is it a file manager on your local system, it's also your FTP client.
It does all that without bringing in a whole bunch of dependencies that log down your system
with all kinds of word statements you never asked for.
There is also a third feature that I really, really like.
Now, all file managers have a delete option.
But, in Vsoft Commander, when you delete and you're on your local system,
there's a checkbox called Wipe Files.
And it will overwrite the file before deleting it for greater security.
And as hackers, we should all appreciate that.
So, that's my mini review of a software package, lightweight software package called Vsoft Commander,
also known as Package Name BSC.
Thanks for listening to today's Hacker Public Radio.
Hacker Public Radio is Community Radio, so please consider recording your own episodes and contributing them.
We'd love to have more up there.
Thank you and have a great day.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over to C-A-R-O dot Anything for all of us here.
Thank you very much.
