Episode: 892
Title: HPR0892: 2011-2012 Hacker Public Radio New Year's Eve Part 2/8 (A Bit About Fedora)
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0892/hpr0892.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 04:14:49

---

.
All right, glad to.
Fedora.
Not me.
Ken Fallon.
Ken Fallon.
Did I own knowledge of this stuff?
No, no, no.
You know you've been requesting it for the past hour.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's true.
I'm going to say it.
I like it.
I use it.
You should too.
Only if you're desperate.
Well, back in when was the tattoo that you posed that question to me?
I don't know.
I barely remember it.
Was it like a year ago?
Well, it's actually longer.
Way back when I was doing some distro hopping at the side.
I'm a Debian guy anyway.
So I decided I would try out Fedora on the request of tattoo.
And I installed it.
And it just went absolutely wrong badly.
And this is Fedora.
14.
A posting.
Is he dropping out or is it just me?
No, Ken is cutting in and out.
His light is even blinking on and off.
Okay.
Hello, can you hear me now?
Yes.
Okay.
I tried Fedora 10-11.
11, I think it was.
And I had a bad experience with it.
And insofar as it didn't install.
And I got into dependency hell.
I think which tattoo claims doesn't exist.
So when I brought that up to tattoo, he, of course,
the bad apples claimed that that was something that didn't happen.
And determined to prove that he was wrong.
I decided to install Fedora.
And obviously I was going to install the KDE version of Fedora.
Now, NOS, a lot of you will probably be surprised
when you hear that this review is about Fedora 14.
When in fact, Fedora 16 has been out for the last,
I don't know, two or three months.
But as a devian guy, one of the things that is touted mostly
about the distro is the ability to do a dist update.
And so my plan was I was going to install the latest Fedora
on my machines.
I was going to live with it for at least one release cycle.
And then at the end of the release cycle,
I was going to do a dist upgrade or a, excuse me,
I was going to do an update to the next release.
And I documented my journey, word for word.
And I have it in a text file which I'll go and look up now.
So the install actually was, I bought a bit of a cheat.
I don't know what you think of the install to the fact
that it just seems to copy the ISO image onto the hard disk.
But I guess anyone got any comment on that?
I've always rather liked it, to be honest,
because it's just so fast, it does mean that I think
sometimes there's a lot of setup afterwards
because you might not have applications that you want to have on there
because the ISO images are pretty small,
at least the ones that I download.
But I mean, I don't know, it seems really fast to me, which I like.
Personally, I thought it was a bit of a cheat.
But then, you know, after thinking about it for a while,
I thought, well, you know, why bother?
Why go to all this trouble of actually installing everything
if you have a base image that you can do that from?
So right there, I was a bit, I was a bit,
one way or the other really, as to how it was,
how I was thinking about it.
I didn't really think it was that good way of doing it,
but actually now, I think, well, you know,
why go through the trouble of doing a full install
if you can get away with that?
So anyway, shall I go through the list step by step on what I did?
And I just wanted to say that I also then went on after a while
and updated not to Fedora 15, but I updated to Fedora 16.
And these are my experiences.
And to be fair, I also did a fresh install of both of them
on different machines just to validate what I was doing
and was right around, okay?
So one thing that I did like out of the box,
and that was that both Fedora 14 and Fedora 16
allowed you to tick the box to do an encrypted disk.
Now, anybody at all listening to the show
who has got a mobile device laptop, form, whatever,
should be using a little encrypted disk.
There is no excuse for anybody, any IT industry,
not to be running a little encrypted disk.
Anyone disagree with me?
Speak now or forever, will you please?
I am not going to specifically disagree,
but I'm going to take the opportunity to ask you a question about that.
And I'm going to ask if having an older machine
with a slower processor is an excuse for not encrypting a disk.
No, it's no excuse.
And the reason for that is because I remember reading about it
and if somebody wants to do an in-depth HPR series,
that would be great.
But once you do the unlocking, then everything is just a fairly fast hash
that goes down to your disk.
So there is no loss of speed that I can see.
And I'm running on really slow machines
that I found on the junkyard-based gamework and at home.
Actually, the machine that I'm recording doing this one on
is an Acer Aspire 1, the original series.
Admittedly, I've updated the hard disk to be a actual fast
or a real hard disk.
Although it's something like an iPod, the original iPod,
hard disk.
And I got this with one gig of RAM.
And the reason I didn't upgrade to Fedora 15, actually,
was because it ran the KDE version of Fedora
on this little mepook is just so perfect
that I didn't want to touch it.
But then when I came back from Ogcamp, I thought,
well, OK, I'll update to 16.
And that has had no, you know, the full disk encryption
has no effect on speed.
OK, I'll move on.
The Fedora 16, sorry, on Fedora 16,
they make USB disk utility, didn't create a USB boot disk
from a Fedora image, whereas Unit booting does.
So there you go.
That has not been my experience, just FYI.
Documented with screenshots box.
No, I don't have screenshots of that, but that is on
16 on Fedora 16 on my Isra Spire 1
and on a Dell machine.
I literally just made like three boot USB drives
over the holidays from Fedora 16.
Updated, I guess, is probably all updated.
But I mean, it works as expected.
You mean from like a Fedora dot ISO or whatever,
you create a USB image?
Yeah, you download the image of Kitty,
and then you do it.
On Fedora 14, I didn't have this issue.
On Fedora 16, I did.
But the same image, if I use Unipooten,
it would create it now.
I will probably say this isn't necessarily Fedora issue.
It could be that, you know,
it's not doing all the funky checks.
That's, that's the USB disk,
a USB floppy disk, a USB CD room or whatever.
So it might be just that USB Unipooten
has more of those options.
And I'm trying to boot it on crappier older hardware.
Interesting. Yeah.
I mean, I do a make FS, make DOS FS first.
I don't know why I just do.
And then I do the live USB creator.
And I've made two without a persistent partition,
and one with a persistent partition.
And they boot fine.
Okay, well, it's not a showstop, right?
Because if you do Yom search Unipooten,
actually doesn't install.
There's no use.
There's no, sorry, I let go of my finger.
I pushed it all thing.
There's no Unipooten in the repositories that I could find.
But I was able to install it from the website.
So one thing that was different in Fedora 16 to Fedora 14
was that the open SSH server was already installed,
but not running, but it was definitely a nice addition.
And I will go down to the list of the applications
that I installed in the order that I installed them.
And I'll give you the reasons why I installed them in this order.
So I install open SSH server first.
And then I install Synergy.
And I don't know if anyone knows about Synergy.
This is the mouse thing that spans different screens or says some mouse.
Yeah, that's the one.
Yeah, cool.
It's a cross-platform, a new utility that runs on Windows, Mac, and Linux.
And it allows you from one machine to run the server
and all the other ones connected.
The config ball is really simple to use
and it allows you to move your mouse over to the left-hand side of the screen
and then it pops to the right-hand screen of the machine that's on the left.
And then you move the mouse back and you pop it over on the right-hand of your screen
and come in the left-hand side of the screen that's on your right,
regardless of the operating system.
Hours and hours and hours are fun to be had with your coworkers
if you install that on their machine.
That is insanely cool.
I had no idea Synergy was a new project.
I am sold.
I don't think it's a new project.
I think it's licensed.
I'm going to hold on.
Let me just check that.
Actually, somebody in the chat room checked that.
I may not be sold then.
I definitely don't think it's a new project, but I think it's a...
It's definitely open source.
Okay, cool.
Sorry, it didn't mean it's directly.
No, no, you go ahead and confirm that while I'm waffling on here.
So the idea being that I have open SSH and Synergy running
and the idea being that you can do anything from your main machine
via the console, obviously, to do the setup.
And then if there's any clicky mousey stuff that you need to do,
you run out of it Synergy.
Synergy's install will tell you that if you want to do it
over to secure connection, that you should tunnel it via SSH anyway.
So that's the way to go there.
So there was actually no problem getting, obviously,
SSH running on Fedora Red Hat based machines.
The only thing that you need to do is set it to run all.
Run on reboot.
And you do that by typing C-HK-C-O-N-F-I-G.
Check config space SSH-D space on.
Now that was in Fedora 14.
And since then they've updated their system.
So you use system control space start space SSH-D.RUS.
And then system control.
That's S-Y-S-T-E-M-C-T-L space enable space SSH-D.Services.
And that helpfully was on the article dashbase.com articles
Linux Fedora installation PHP to a website.
Links in the show notes for this episode whenever comes available.
Everyone following me so far?
I am.
Yes.
So cool to be able to get some feedback from the audience.
Anyway, one thing I did really, really like about Fedora
out of the box comes with a firewall.
And it also comes with something else which I want to talk to you about later on.
Pipeman, I hear your music in the background.
Yep, you've been on.
I can hear you.
I think you're not on push to talk or something.
My mixer was turned down all the way.
Okay.
Don't worry about it.
Anyway, you can continue playing in the background.
Something bluesy.
Yeah, it's touching.
Yeah, it's like Ken's journey through the world.
Yeah.
So the firewall was really cool.
Good complaining class.
Are you posted the challenge?
I don't remember this.
Ken is telling me I challenged him.
I don't exactly remember challenging him.
But I'm not going to.
I don't want to argue that point while we're arguing Fedora.
There was a whole period there where there were more Fedora ambassadors in the August planet.
IRC channel and there was a real ambassadors in the U.N.
If that's what we said.
Anyways, so the firewall was really cool.
Didn't really have a lot of problems with it.
The only thing I needed to do on both occasions was both Fedora 14 and Fedora 16 was to do a reload restart when I started at Hitch.
But other than that, you can get in the way at all the entire time.
Yep.
You happy so far?
I'll do.
I'm all right.
But I'm sensing, you know, it's the column that's before the storm.
You're going to lash out any minute now.
I'm waiting for it.
Now, pipe my music.
Could you change to the yes.
Change the theme background theme music now because we're about to get to.
And then it all went wrong.
So controversy.
Yes.
And then I did this is Fedora 14 now.
We're reviewing Fedora 14 at this point, remember.
From a default MD5 checks on website installed approximately a month or so after the release.
And I went to do a package update.
And it aborted on the GUI.
With your message, two packages provide the same file.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
And then it was suggesting that I erase NTFS dash 3G and erase case KV multimedia lips, which wanted, which then fixed everything.
Yeah.
So this was, this was a bit of a downer for door 14 because I thought, well, you know, here, here is really dependency hell.
And as a Debian guy, you never, ever see this.
However, I do want to come back to that measure.
Then I went into the console into a new tab.
I added myself to the pseudo group.
We started all that good stuff.
Then I went over to RPM fusion to add the what are, which would be equivalent to the Debian multimedia archive.
So these are the perfectly valid, new applications like, what's this?
I'm not a lost here, what's the MP3 code called anyone?
Name.
Thank you.
And those type of things over at RPM fusion.org.
Now, the only, I know Fedora have a very strict stance on their definition of free and they don't want to distribute anything that's illegal.
But stuff like that, I think, you know, it should be, if you're in an area that doesn't have software patents, why should we suffer that somebody else is in an area that does have software patents?
I totally agree with that point.
If I think we should be using lame just for that specific reason that software patents are wrong, specifically the one against a thing like lid lame.
I think, I mean, I'm sure that it's probably because Red Hat is hosting most, you know, a huge portion of the Fedora infrastructure.
So, I mean, they're on US soil, so I'm sure they're playing it very safe for that reason.
I'm not saying I agree, but I'm sure that's the reason.
Yeah, I agree from, you know, not being a lawyer, I agree from my perception of what's a legal standpoint, you know, that they have to do that to protect themselves.
And they've got lawyers, I'm sure, to understand that and are good to go as far as that goes.
But as far as a user, I think we should be installing and using these codex, you know, whenever we can.
But sorry to digress.
Yeah, but see, I don't, I mean, I'm digressing here, but I don't know if I agree with that either because honestly, I kind of like having a Fedora system where the support for proprietary codex is optional.
But it's not a proprietary type of system.
I might not even bother putting it on that system, depending on what I'm going to do.
Yeah, and I think I fall in between the two of you guys on that perspective where I, I agree, I much prefer having a system that's all free software or at least open source software, not proprietary.
But LibLane is free software and, and I like it for that.
Yeah, as you were saying, yeah.
And then in Convergence is a legal issue and I am not a big fan of lawyers.
Same.
Okay, so now that I've stirred it up a little bit, then one thing that this did bring up that was quite annoying.
And I've seen it still in Fedora 16 is the pop under authentication button.
So if you, if you need, and you're in the giddy gooey and you click on something that requires a privilege escalation of privileges, quite often you're sitting there wondering what's happened.
And then underneath there's a prompt that's prompting you for the administrator password.
That might be because that might be because you are, you have window stealing set to be very what it would be low such that the time that what is it?
Focus, you know, the time that the focus is stolen from your of the current window is is very infrequent.
I don't think that's a Fedora issue.
I think that's because it's well, yeah, but it's a kitty Fedora distribution distributed me this out of the box, but that's setting on.
Right.
But it's not that it's not again.
It's not the end of the world.
It's just a minor thing.
It's annoying. It happens to me on Slackware too.
Okay. So I clicked that typed in the stay root password because at this stage, the pseudo password doesn't work.
Although if you reboot or log out and log back in, then it asks you for the pseudo password will also work.
So that's that's one thing.
The young updated asked me to require they asked me to acknowledge the keys and it resolved all the dependencies without any problem.
However, when I did it on Fedora 14, no, Fedora 14 that was fine.
So the following, I then I installed the following packages or SDFFFMPEG, SOXM player, Inkscape, VLC, VIM, Firefox, Popper, Utils, WGET, SSHFS, KDIF3, Terminator, K3B, Speaks, Tools, Files, Zilla, and GIMP.
Anyone not know any of those problems.
You listed them too fast, but I think I know them.
Repeat them again, Ken.
Ken, are you still there? I don't know if you heard.
Oh, sorry. I'm not pressing push to talk.
Okay, someone just asked you to repeat them again.
Sure, I'll do that.
So we have audacity, which is a audio editor, very lightweight sort of notepad for audio.
Also runs Windows, Mac, and Linux.
Then my favorite program.
Then we have FFMPEG, which is absolutely the coolest piece of software ever.
For video editing on the command line, I had to edit right...
I'll give you the scenario, right?
There's ten minutes to a train leaving.
I have five minutes to edit this video.
All I've got is this paperclip and FFMPEG.
What am I going to do?
I need to edit out somebody speaking in a video conversation at a particular point.
So I played.
Mark down the note.
Extract the audio out.
Open the audio track and audacity.
Mute that track.
Put it back.
Export it as a wild file.
Import the wild file, combining it with the original video file in...
With FFMPEG and boom.
Editing a video without transcoding, without only messing, without skipping or anything.
In five minutes, literally put it on the USB stick.
Got on the train, went out, given the boom.
I'm a wife, did her presentation.
All thanks to FFMPEG.
I'm waiting for FFMPEG to play something.
Something that...
Try on that.
Yeah.
So the other thing I installed was...
I think I'm muted all the way now.
No, you're not.
Just still...
I can still see your red lips.
Yeah, I don't know what's going on with the lips.
There's no...
They're popping on it off for no reason.
I don't know what it's doing.
Very weird.
That's all right.
I have no explanation for that.
That's okay.
It's not going to cross an audio.
So...
It's fine.
Then I installed stocks, which is...
I don't know.
They Swiss Army Knife Audio Editor.
We use it to...
Say, somebody uploads an org file,
wild file, speaks file, whatever.
Then we just use it, stocks, to convert to MP3,
org, and speaks for the shows.
M player, because it's the best audio player,
Barnon.
It's the best audio player, Barnon.
It's really, really, really cool.
Like there's...
You can stop podcasts while keeping the same pitch.
You can...
I don't know if you listen to the cchits.net show.
Oh, yeah.
So every day...
And there's a really long bit where those two...
And then it goes...
Right in your ear.
So I use that to fast forward the first 60 seconds
and then you have the robot talking to us
and then it plays the song.
Absolutely brilliant.
Inkscape is the next one,
which is the Vector Graphics program,
which if you haven't been to screencasters.hethenex.org,
you should do...
If you...
If anybody you know is into Vector Graphics
or drawing or whatever,
burn those movies onto a DVD,
get them a copy of Inkscape,
and hand it to them, saying,
there you go.
You're going to have a career.
You don't need any training.
Here's the training.
Here's the program.
Here's the sample files.
Good luck.
Bye.
And the next program is VLC,
which is Video Land Client,
which we use just to check that they...
It's also a good video player,
but it's also a good audio player as well.
And then I install the best text editor in the world,
bar and on.
DMX.
No, actually, I could care less...
I could really care less about video editors.
My...
Our text editor...
My favorite text editor is actually Kate.
So I'm...
Use Kate all the time.
But the...
The MIS on every machine that you're at,
so it's...
It's useful to have it.
Install Firefox,
because...
Hey, even install Firefox.
And they...
Popular utils are...
Who will go with utils that does something,
which escapes me right now.
So I'll just Google.
I'm going to play the imaginary trumpets again,
because I finally just succeeded in the task you set me out to do.
Go ahead.
I had to download the source code to find it.
Synergy is released under the GPL V2.
Yeah, so I knew that all along.
At least we know for sure now.
But yeah, but you can't find it on their website anyway.
I had to get it in the source code.
I mean, it's...
Referred to elsewhere on the web,
but I don't like to trust, you know,
secondary sources for that kind of stuff.
Anyway, thank you.
Moving on.
No, I was...
I remember hearing...
Oh, what was this?
Dimitri, all about the...
He did a...
A show about it.
And...
Which really annoys me.
He really annoys me,
because he always picks...
He always says to do...
That I have intended to do a show as an hacker public radio,
and he does them far better than I would ever do them.
So...
I think we...
Anyone who podcasts knows that feeling from...
From Dimitri.
Oh, my God.
Yeah, Dimitri, Lermosel.
If anybody isn't of who we're talking about,
who does the Source Trump show.
He is...
Yeah, he's the...
The goal.
I don't know.
He's the goal.
Yeah, but he's the subject killer.
You know, once he's talked about it,
you're like, yeah, it's been done now.
It's been done really, really well.
Why do I...
I can't top that.
He, still,
is a man saw that you...
Have turned off if anybody else did it,
and he does it in such an interesting way.
And see, either the whole time going,
I can't to try this.
Which...
Which I...
Which I...
Which I didn't remember at all him talking about synergy.
He didn't show...
I think I do.
Yeah, I kind of...
I think I'm pretty sure I remember that.
I think that's how I heard about it, actually.
Do you use it, Clathu?
Do you use synergy?
I keep meaning too,
but no.
I usually do at least have two computers set up on my desk at all time if not three but yeah
I just I don't know for some reason I I not bothered I have meant to use energy for so long
It's not even funny and I didn't know the name of it
So this would be my next task. You know when we're done with all this yeah, I would probably be I mean
It's probably a great way like I think Ken's that if to it just wow all your your co-workers
I'm sure that would just blow their minds like anything that's you know really truly useful
You forget the using it in no time. I've been using it so many years
I I don't even remember when I started using it
But the I find it invaluable. It's anytime you've got two machines next to each other. It's it's a necessity
It's one of those things you instantly realize when you're not running it or when you don't have it available to you
Because it's yeah, it's easier to become dependent on it
Someone can raise a glass to synergy because it sounds like this is really something that we all need to be using
Absolutely, what what I've seen happen in the last few years and in
Well what Bob my friend has seen happen in the last few years in the place where Bob works is that
people
Once Bob got an old PC that nobody was using the starter run Linux summit and then
You know using synergy to move over and back a lot of people with Bob's workplace has
Also got second PCs or brought in their own laptops for home and started using Linux summit
Is that how Bob convinced Henry Patrick Riley to use Linux? Yeah, you said Bob and Henry are your best of buddies
And uh, I since there's a joke here, but I am not sure if I'm getting it
No, you wouldn't got to okay
Henry Patrick Riley is the name that Ken had to change
Hpr to on Google plus when they were not allowing any
Oh
I just like to thank Henry Patrick Riley for giving up his
His own personal website and sacrificing that for a team here
So Henry, you don't need to do a show this year either, okay?
Okay, I'm rat and whole ask it. Let's cut off
Meanwhile back at the point
Yeah, cuz we only have 10 more hours left on this show, so we need to be you know pretty efficient here
I call 10 more hours of the door
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, we are definitely talking about crunch bang at some point
I am not passing up this opportunity
And then I listen to 10 hours of that either
Yeah, it should be 10 hours of watch watches watch you can do 10 hours. I'm brother
Okay, I'm sorry, can can I just nine hours? It's not even nine hours, right? Great crayon is claiming it in the future arch makes sense
Yeah, absolutely it does here in 2012
I don't know about that here in 2012 watches um watches awesome makes but then again it was awesome in 2011 too
Now is that australian awesome where it's actually really bad here
Yes, very funny very funny
Here in 2011 we use a devian crunch bang and uh and slack wear so it's I don't know
I heard arch. I think we should talk more about arch see there you go. That's good
Um
I'm uh I'm going to bed. It's 7 o'clock in the morning here. So I'm I'm not gonna make it to you like yours your new years
So happy new year to everyone um anyway
Thanks for coming on crayon
I might be back in six hours and you might still be going on a no
That would be awesome, but yeah, thanks a lot for it
We'll see what happens
My apologies my synthesized apologies can I still haven't uploaded an HBR episode?
So technically um, I guess this is my first HBR
appearance
But I'm doing a kernel panning
Thanks, uh, thanks 50 on 50. Yes, but I've been doing um kernel panic
I'll cast for a while now with clatu and dan and all that
Uh, and that's pretty uh been pretty fun um, and I think you know, I one thing I wanted to say about that actually was that um
You know when you're first looking to to get into it even with you know um HBR feeling is um
As accessible as it is it's still a bit daunting to think of you know putting your voice out there on the internet um and I kind of got sucked into um
To the kernel panic augcast without even thinking
And before you know it, I'd sort of done that and so now I feel a lot more comfortable
I think to be able to put out a an HBR episode and things like that
But I think yeah, it's great that HBR exists because I think it's a very good entry for most people
And it would have been my first had I've not uh
managed to get onto kpo first
But yeah, thanks to everyone
Panic is being the geek we drove to
Not me, but uh
That shows quality as such that yeah, anyone could probably come in and join in on that one
That is a pretty low entry point. Yeah, thanks. Yeah. Yeah, I'm a pretty bad example
No, no, no, I must say the kernel panic augcast is one of my favorite podcasts right now
So keep it up for sure. Yeah subscribe if you don't know what we're talking about
Just the search and subscribe
Yeah, it's definitely um, it's a lot of fun being on that but yeah, thank you to everyone with for the HHBR
Episodes and everything I get it. I love listening to them
So in anyone who's made it I listened to every episode
So if you've made an episode, I've listened to it and I probably enjoyed it
So thank you to whoever it was who did it thanks to everyone anyway
And uh good night and goodbye from 2012 and see you in here
Is it you're the best Linux desktop? Oh, yes, that's right. Yes, it is fun enough
I look around and all I see is Linux desktops all around me. So it must be
Oh, I keep saying it for glass
Indeed
Thank you. Yes, happy new year to everyone when and uh, yeah, I'll see you when you get here
Um, enjoy the rest of 2011 and can continue on with your uh your fedora
garbage stuff now
Thank you
Maybe having a live audience isn't a good idea after all
Sorry, sorry. I didn't what I mean is for door and garbage
More happening more happening
Ken remember he's Australian so garbage means brilliant
Oh, that's right. Yeah, right
Hey crayon one thing I want to ask you about have you got the range of meter working yet?
Oh, no, I need to get back under that too. Yeah
I yeah, that's one of my seven hundred projects that I've yet to finish that's that's a great project
It's a great example of uh of collaboration too because when that finally happens it is going to be a very fun
Let me know when you want to test it that way I can get that uh, I've had uh
song that Chad plays uh for you
Yes, yeah, the wonderful uh, yeah, no, thanks. That's in my head now. Thank you
Claudia it's playing in my head right now
Thanks a lot
You're welcome helping happy new year
All right, what do you guys what exactly is the radio meter for those of us like no
Don't make me play the song
All right, it was um it was I'm not sure how what was happening um it was a discussion
I didn't ever remember now, but I think um was it you Pokey or
Yeah, I'll be mentioned little was it pickle? I don't know
Somebody fab brought it up fab was talking about the rage on me. Oh, that's right
um on on um limits outlaws when he talks people seem to get angry as his claim and
He was talking about that they need a radio meter to measure the amount of rage in the chat room as he's talking about specific subjects and not at all for the reason that he would back off
But I think he'd like to see how high he can get it going some days and I
Was listening to that and I think crayon mentioned it while I was listening to it and it just sparked
kind of um
Like it occurred to me all of a sudden how the radio meter could
Work if it were set up with a website and how it could actually be kind of kind of an effective measurement of the rage in the room
and crayon took you know those kind of rules and ran with it and he registered the domain name and everything so it's
It's kind of an inside joke. It's not actually anything any any useful really useful
But uh more of an inside joke than anything and and a fun collaboration
Yeah, actually we're just three domains for it
That's how you know you're a true geek when just one domain for for a single purpose isn't enough
It's not a purpose is the far about it. It's it's one one domain for a useless joke
Yeah, really
Yeah, I've got it both with and without hyphens um and
Possibly net and auger. I'm not sure
When it will forget you would HBR on it. Sorry
I was just going to say don't forget you have to preemptively grab triple X now
Oh, yeah
Yeah, those are expensive aren't they just get those
What a scam. What is horrible? It's it's embarrassing. Yeah, the worst part is the worst part is all the
Buying up all their domains so to avoid the uh the inevitable porn sites or whatever that will appear
It's a bit like blackmail. Yeah, it's like we're gonna release this thing
It's gonna automatically have a stigma attached to it
So you better get yours now before someone else does and stigmatizes you
Yeah, it's uh
Yeah, here's a rat hole. We could spend a lot of time on but it was just long
It was fun really even that caused the XXX domain to happen
Yeah, I think the adults in the street can particularly want it either
It's the whole domain name stuff is really bad. I mean in Australia
I noticed they changed recently
Unlike with the comms, you know, our comma u ones require that you present
You know a certificate of business registration or something to prove that you know
You have some kind of claim to the name for the dot com that are you domains
Which was great because it meant that you know if you went to something dot com
That it was most likely going to be the company in question
Um, and I noticed a few years ago. I think it was they changed like they changed one line in it that it said it originally said something like um
It had to be the name of your company or the pro or the name of a primary product that you produce and they changed it to say or
It has to be the product itself
So thereby of course allowing you to purchase a domain in the event that that domain is what you're going to sell
Which of course that's what the squatters are doing
So all I did was then allow for squatters to you know to to purchase the comma u domains and sit on them
Just like they do with the comm ones now and it's it's just
It's pathetic and it's it's wrong. I mean, I don't know about how it all works over there
But here that's all run by a you know the government gave it to some company to run and
They basically do what they want now from what it seems
Okay, so I continue on that
Yeah, sorry Ken. I'll leave now
Yeah, well, I'm yeah, my head said it unscrewed because it's the 730 or something but yeah
But yeah, it's been really fun, but thank you for coming on it
It's really special having people literally all over the globe on this call and
And your part of it. Thanks so much. Well, someone has to represent down under so yeah
Now go to bed. All right. I'm off
Okay, he's really gone till his nick disappears
All right, I can't just squat in here then. No, he's gonna talk until
disappears from the tailway
No secret Australian spy stealing our secret
Yeah, he does it. I'm glad to say crayon
Yeah, now that he's gone we can say say that because he yeah, he'll change his name
He'll put crayon asleep and he'll just comment all night long
Okay
Meanwhile, the last time
We were talking about
Fedora actually we were talking about the applications that they installed in Petora Fedora one of which was synergy one of which really cool gateway drug to Linux because
You say or Bob gets asked our Henry or whoever gets asked and
How do you configure this synergy thing so that I only need one keyboard mouse on my desktop and you go
Oh, I don't know how to do it on Windows, but if you do it on Linux, it's really easy. You just do this
And then all of a sudden the main keyboard allows is the Linux computer
See how I do that very sneaky
Anyway, the other thing I install is a poplar library, which is a way that you can um
Play around with pdf files
All go tools for doing that like pdf grab and stuff like that
Then I install wguess presumably everybody knows what wget is
Yes silence and it's counterpart wput everybody heard wput
Wputs a new one for me
That might be
It's a way to if you're familiar with wguess wput does the same thing but in reverse
Really really cool
And it also understands proxy servers so you can get through where an ftp
Might have an issue getting through a pro sucks proxy
And wput will just steam roll right on through there. Oh, that's brilliant. You're welcome
And hey, hey, can I get a question because I have used i've used wget on a couple occasions
But what do you think of excel? Have you tried that?
Excelled the application from Microsoft? No sir excel axel. I believe is
It's like wget it does the same thing, but it will do it at several servers at a time. So it'll grab
You know multiple pieces of a file
If it's almost like a almost like a bit torrent version of wget
Yes
Accelerate HTTP download process by using multiple connections for one file. Look and use multiple numerals for download
Yes, that is
That would be excellent except what I'm usually downloading with wget is from a particular server that has only
Got one thing on it. So I want to download nug files from a particular server. Yeah, okay
I just I wasn't sure if you'd ever used them or compared the two never even heard of it for now
But I sure I will enjoy your hatred episode on us in the coming weeks. No, there already was an hpr episode on it
I heard it from deep geek no
Yeah, honest to god deep did he mentioned it
I don't know if the whole show on it, but you you know covered it really well
I can't remember that and I have listened to every show. I proud myself on this thing. Okay. I'll
Know that you'll pick up the episode for me. So the next thing I install is SSH FS
I presume everybody knows this as well allows you to connect drives over the SSH program
And then I do k diff 3, which is just a graphical version to compare two files
And I install the GNOME application terminator because it is
My terminal of choice right now
And I have a wide screen and I open that up one main screen in landscape mode and then
four or five small ones on the right hand side one for the RC channel one for
Empire one for
Launching problems and another one for just doing stuff
locally on my machine
k id3 we use
Poki I think was you who did an episode on that
Which is an id3 tagger for mp3 we have the speaks tools for generating speaks file for hpr
File zilla for uploading files and the game for doing image manipulation
So some other things I do in
To make it easy look nice is I turn off the
In the task manager settings I turn off grouping because I just hate that and then I turn it on so that each my virtual
Desktop only shows the windows for that virtual desktop
And here's something that I really want to complain to all distros about with the exception of crunch bang actually
And that
And that is
That you go through the install and you pick your local bocal is the Netherlands and your local keyboard is US
And so that's fine
So that's a bit confusing so I can accept that it wouldn't know exactly what I wanted to do
So then I go in and change stay you know the date format to yyxy-mm-dd
So your month day and nobody should be using any other date format than that. Thank you
All right, everyone will agree with that
The reason because if you do an ls are a sort then
And this bugs me about podcasts actually
You know who upload a show episode
three
Three are three four or four three you don't know what it is and it doesn't sort properly
So you're playing on your MP crappy MP3 player or media player and it's playing
Based on the day of the month as opposed to the month and then the day
So if you have to put a date in always put the year first full four digits month full two digits and the day full two digits
It's a total of whopping total of eight digits that you actually have to type but it makes life so much so much easier
Hey, Ken cannot let this joke from IRC go unspoken and I don't know I asked him to say it himself because he's in the room
But yes, W put is the Australian W get
But oh, that's good
All right fellas, I'm gonna about I wish you all a very happy new year for those of you already there
Hope it's a good one so far and looking forward to a lot more HPR episodes in 2012
Take it easy guys happy new year Claudio. Thank you. Yeah Claudio looking forward to the next basement episodes
Okay, it actually is the W put apparently as bobo becks
Just pasted into the mumble chat. There's literally a W put just FYI. Yeah, I know I wasn't making it up
It's for putting follows up to a web server. Oh, yeah, I didn't know this one. Yeah, it's really cool
Okay, so
Sorry, just the W put work over
Like if you're gonna upload an HPR episode
No reason why wouldn't yeah, it's the easiest you can use
Wcftp or one of those things which allows you to script it but it's got a very archaic well
So Slara's admins seem to be able to get their head around to for some reason but I've always had trouble with it
Whereas I found a syntax for W put to be a lot easier
But then again, I guess I'm more used to the W get syntax
You're saying that you can script W put or you can't you can absolutely 100%
That's why I was getting in something to automate an upload of a file
Yeah, there may be I'll do an episode on that
Just on W guess and or sorry W post and other ftp options
So can I consider it officially requested by me?
So can I do a total new sidetrack here?
Sure
Okay, so it has been explained to me and I don't know whether it's correct or incorrect because I didn't get it from HPR
But it has been explained to me that the hyper-transfer protocol
Literally had only like what four or five commands there's
Like and and of them get and put
Our two and put is not often you is this is that true?
Yeah, that's true. I think okay, so what's sorry?
Uh, go ahead. I was just gonna say I think isn't that post is another one of them. Is that correct?
That was my next question is what was it what is the full list
That's what's Google's for I guess
Yeah, I mean if you if you run HTTP fox in Firefox, I think it's that one
You can see all the traffic going back and forth between the page that you're talking to in the server
You're getting the information from and you'll see all the you'll you'll see all of them go fly by in that in that kind of thing
I don't remember them all off the top of my head all four of them. I think we've got three now, right?
Yeah, but when I'm talking about wputt. It's a natural program that you apt-get or you're installed wputt
It's a different it's a different thing. It just uses and it's basically a front-end for ftp, right?
Can that's what it's looking like? Yeah, but you can all you can also do HTTP puts and
Post on webpages and stuff as well with it, I think oh, okay
Although I use it as an ftp client
So they're less akin than I'm assuming they are yeah, that's correct
All right, I'm backing off. That's why it was a new beside track
Does crayon is saying that my
Audio is bad with breaking some now two questions one is my audio bad and two crayon go to bed
It's only a really bad. It's good for the rest of us. Yeah, it sounds good. Yeah
Yeah, I was gonna say I thought he was going to bed
So I'm fine to me again. Okay, cool. I'll continue on that anyway. Here's the thing, right?
You select that your country is in L and it insists on changing all the separators and commas to
Dots and the separators to sorry if they
You know decimal separator to comma and they
Thousand separator to a dot
Yes, it doesn't change the paper size day four
I find that amazing in every distro that that still is is the case really anonymous me
Wait, what I'm sorry. I'm what doesn't change it right you go into any distro. I think the crunch buying is the exception
And you select you know the what's your locale
The Netherlands. Yeah, and it's able to change the
Some of them go so far as to change the keyboard to a Dutch layout that nobody in the Netherlands uses
It also changes the date format. So it's um day month year
It also changes the number format so that they debt you know they
The periods that you normally use like one dollar 50 cents like one dot 50
In the Netherlands you use a comma for that. So it changes the one comma 50
To one comma 50 if you type it in and the decimal separator they use is is a period as opposed to a comma
So it goes to the trouble of changing all that but something as simple as everybody here prints on it for there is no letter none
So it still leaves all the printer configurations with letter and I'm just wondering is there a technical reason actually
What we really need on the channel is somebody who has their own distro
And might be able to tell us if that's something that's easy to change
But Ken, where are we going to find that person? I don't know pipe my music quick. Play us something exciting and
I'll just wake him up
Well, I was just down in a beer actually and chilling out the
Yeah, low, low cows is um, it's a funny old thing on the next unit
The only thing I can imagine why it probably work on crunch bang and not any other for Ken is
I do for I set up crunch bang to um work on UK
The settings so you know, and we have a full paper
So you know what I thought that was being controlled by the printer driver itself
That's what I would have assumed
But the printer driver is included in the distribution, I think it's the point
Yeah, I mean if Carnamel can change it then surely everybody else can
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, how does he catch it and shuttle worth misses it?
Well shuttlebert doesn't do for door and fairness
Although he may have with this review is going on so long that he may have bought the company since then
Haha
Anyway, I got the speed up. I do a password less login and I know you're all shocked and stunned to hear that
But I just encrypted my hard disk remember so when I turn on my computer
I type in my really really really long password and then that's enough for me to be able to login because
You know why bother entering a password in twice
Anyone have a problem with that?
No, I'm outraged
Yeah, actually shocked
Super I'm actually I should do a review on crunch bang as well, but I can't anymore
So I install hp ijs because it wants me to and then I do the
checkpoint ssl extender thing and this is a major advantage if you're if you're trying to
recommend a distro to somebody and
You know crunch bang you have to forgive me about this but
If you recommend a distro to somebody who's intending to use it for work purposes or M work then it is really
Important for you to consider Fedora simply because
They they read has in the intra they Linux distribution in the enterprise is read has it's as simple as that
I know that
Ubuntu would like it to be something else and Debian has a lot of
Inwards on the hp side, but a lot of
You know proprietary vendors will release their code for red hat and then what you see is that red hat makes it very very easy to
install things like
The missing libraries that you will need to install checkpoint or other applications like citrix for example
And I have if you go to my own website, which is can file.com and you just click on the you just search for citrix or smx
Over there you'll see that for to install Fedora 16
And it's actually as opposed to
The equivalent for Ubuntu or indeed
Crunch bang or something like that where you need to install a lot of missing libraries
And it's right here that I want to point out to the Debian lovers one major thing that I've noticed about
Your which I absolutely love and that is
If you do if you install a program like
In this case checkpoint
And you do an LDD for the program and you grab or not space found
It'll give you that lib standard c++.so.5 is not found
And what you can do is just simply type yum install and the file them
And what it does as it goes out finds what package it's in and ask you would you like to install it from this package
And you simply install it. It is really really really really really really really nice
Would you agree tattoo
Yeah, and I want to say that that's either a fairly recent feature or it's just something I didn't really understand fully
But I want to say it's kind of a fairly recent feature. And yeah, it is really nice
Um
Just point out there is I think there's something called act is it act file where you can just do act file
And then maybe the file name and that will tell you what the Debian package the files in so then you can just install it by our get
Nice. I didn't know about that one
Yeah, I was aware of that one, but it's also another one of these apps
Utilities that you need to download. It's not installed by default
And it also goes to prove that in
in
tattoos series here in hpr about the package manager series
Probably every package manager can do all these things. It's just I haven't been bothered to sit down and
And read about it, but yeah, I think that's very very true. Yeah, great. This was one that
So um
Then the next thing I needed to install was 32-bit support for
Fedora, which again was quite easy
And the Citrix client was also
quite easy and
I must say I also like
Something that was a problem in Fedora 14, but has been fixed since has been the
The desk the left and right desktops
And when you do plug in an additional monitor that they
A menu switches, you know your primary desktops switches to the largest monitor, which isn't necessarily the one that you want or vice versa
And you can use xr and r
That's xr a and dr dash q to get your
Turnle settings and then you can specify xr and r dash dash output
And in my case lvds1 dash primary and that will set the
The monitor that you know your main monitor
To be
So for example you plug in a laptop and you have a plug in a big screen
Then you run that and it'll set the big screen to be the you know the one with the menu as opposed to having to go to your little laptop
what's that
so then um
I installed chromium
because and flash pair yes because
and
There's no case and that was a massive big problem in Fedora 14 so much so that it led to a whole series of
Unresolved dependencies, which I have a text file of
and
In Fedora 16 you simply type yum install case and it installs
Fantastic
It's fantastic to see little things that are wrong being improved in a distro over time. It's really nice
and
Then I had one weird issue with audio in Fedora 16 on the machine that I upgraded and that was to do I didn't have any audio at all
Nothing will play and it was due to the fact that my username wasn't added to the audio group, which wasn't that easy to find but
Who here says of that is a fat ad bug that should not happen
However, if anybody among you says you know
The ten reasons why I don't use linux. Yeah, you see these articles coming through in your feed reader every
So often when there's nothing else to write about and they will always put in their
Poor documentation in linux. There's a lot of programs for poor documentation. Well folks
I ask you to just point them over to the Fedora documentation. It is
Fantastic. It is absolutely brilliant
Back in the day when I started using computers and the days before the internet
Pyraman you can play some soothing background music
Do you do you do you
Trip down memory lane. Yeah, it's tripped on the relay of music. Yes, back in those days you would buy
Novel and you get literally a whole bookshelf full of manuals and you needed them because there was nowhere else to look up anything
And that's where the phrase or TFM read the manual comes from and take them and everything you needed to know was in there
Because if I wasn't you were going to know about it because it was no other way to know about it
And Fedora produces manuals like that and they're on the web and all you have to do is go into the Fedora documentation project
And you'll find them. It's brilliant. That is all
Back in there was no internet
So you said that you were a deviant user and certainly using Fedora if you had to write your
The satisfaction maybe or happiness of the using Debian and then using Fedora say
I don't know how the zero to nine or you know whatever
What would you give Debian and what would you give Fedora?
I would have you say that I am a deviant user. I am a deviant user. I'm a crunch band user. I'm a
Fedora user and I am a Linux user
So I guess it gets to a point where
Who I don't know if we cast was saying that I think it's you tattoo that you were saying
You know you should live with a distro for a while and
Get comfortable with it and I'm that way with Debian
But I'm now that way with Fedora as well
You know, I still find myself going up get install or you know aptitude space install something
And then you know find that found and it go okay right on the Fedora machine
So to answer your question, phenomenal it
No, go ahead
You go ahead
Well, I was just gonna say when I'm running the I'm on my power PC Debian boxes. I literally aliased yum to a apt-get
So I like Debian
I like the Debian freedom aspect to it and I see that in Fedora as well as you both come in
You know, it's been the same food versus yum
I'd be yum installed something equals in the down read downloads all the
distro archives, but
To be honest, it is equal
The package manager on Debian and I want to Debian and I say crunch band are the same as yum however
If you're comparing us to the machine that I'm on my main machine here
This is I'm piping this through a Fedora Fedora machine now
But if you were to compare to a kabuntu install which I have on my wife's machine
You
You just enter into dependency hell on
On what's now a Ubuntu machine or a kabuntu machine actually
This
There's been um there was a time under in the red hat world where you were encouraged to download RPMs
And I think that gave it a very bad reputation as far as
Uh dependency halagals flat to I think you'd have to agree with that
Uh, yes, I do agree with that
And I think that was resolved mainly by using the RPM fusion where all the different
Repositories for the non-free stuff got together and give you one place that's a trusted source
So I think in the same way that you can install Debian machine and put Debian multimedia which is an official non-official
Repository on that's a trusted source and then you're good to go because everything will work together
What I see happening on
Ubuntu now is you've got a personal archive for this and it's pinning a Debian package for that and it's doing this and then
You know the guy gets bored with the project and moves on and then people are left with a pin version
That's old and doesn't work without anything else and nothing works and it just becomes real mess
That's not the way it's supposed to be so that's all
I want to say constantly speaking about
Package managers, but would anybody agree with me about that and Ubuntu lately
It's hard to agree for sure because I don't use Ubuntu and I don't
I'm not very close to that issue, but it does sound that is that's how it strikes me
Yeah, it sounds like they are diverging more than then converging and it seems like the convergence of all those all all that stuff was really a strength
And then it seems weird to to scatter it all over the place again
I'm finding that late you can have some
Dependency resolution issues with Ubuntu and I haven't used the newest one, but
It seems to happen more if you've upgraded versions. I think I went from 1004 to 1010 or maybe even from from 910 to 1004 to 1010
And I had dependency issues a couple of times
I'm not so sure I think
It's maybe a user problem as opposed to anything else
I mean, there's a lot of new users on Ubuntu which probably
Makes the problem worse, but I think if you know what you're doing with
PPAs and stuff you can't really go that far wrong
Yeah, I don't know because I don't know if I'm messing with you
What are you going to say here 5150?
Oh right now on my laptop I'm earning my
first
installation I've stuck with with Dora and I have to disagree on the
whole RPM health issue because
I've never had this kind of problem on a
Debian based system. I do I do really like Fedora
Overall, but maybe because it's my first 64-bit system. I seem to be having a lot of conflicts between x86 or the
i686 version of packages and the x86 underscore 64
versions
just an example
And it's probably my own fault for being too ignorant when I installed for door because I clicked
both the standard and the update repose
But the problem that I've been having and it came up a couple months after I
Set up the system if I go to install package. Let's say I want to
put in install kdny but if I type in
yum install
kdny live I get a package not found so if I do yum search kdny by fine. I can see if there's both
uh a dot
i686 package and a dot i or dot x86 underscore 64 which of course is 64-bit package that I want
That's not really a problem. I can find that. I can do that
uh, but I've been told in
a hash for door. I shouldn't be having that problem. So
Let's take the your time to begin with. Right, right
Uh, but so I did I go yum install kdny live dash and version number which I found with yum search although I won't
bore you with that dot x86 64 and uh, then a lot of times I'll fail in that particular case it failed with
protecting multi connection kit dash version number is bang equal of course not equal to jack
I'm sorry, I should start over some some some library dot version number dot i686 is not equal to
same library a couple versions later numbers always a higher number on the 64-bit side dot x86 64
and suggesting using dash dash kit broken which doesn't work one way I found around it is
yum downgrade package names sometimes that works but uh more more often than not
That hasn't worked at all. I found some. I think we just ended how
Sorry about it. I should uh, let up on the key once in a while I think uh, sorry, oh, pm but out
What exactly is my my whole problem from the start I should have done more research on installing
uh, for door. I'm just my going is I've been having uh
uh, um, more package problems in for door than I've ever had in a debit based system
Well, I had the I had the same sort of issues for a while um, but I'm also so was getting that
on a be in system when I want to install a 64 32-bit on a 64 machine I got exactly the same
issues but from the other side I found that yum was a lot easier because I just go yum install dot i3
at six enter and then I said run it and then if I was missing anything with ldd I just install,
you know, kept going yum install missing file yum install missing file yum install missing file
until I was done and I had the upset thing on a deviant system where it was complete.
Yeah, I think they're fixing the next release uh, weezy. I can't remember what the um,
what the system is what it's called it's uh, it escapes me at the moment but from what I understand
you can you should be that easy just to install, you know, different packages for different
architects architectures so. Oh, that's bringing a bell and I can't put the name of it is.
Yeah, now I'm looking at it. Well, sounds as if this is more 64 bits.
Yeah, but it also sounds like a standing particular distribution.
Yeah, well, it sounds like it's being compounded by your typical, you know, RPM hell.
Yeah, but the point is you enter deviant hell as well if you you have exactly the same issue
on the deviant side that hasn't been resolved. So it's to do it. I agree. I agree.
And it's um, I don't think it matters really what package management system you use and,
you know, you can you can end up in hell, you know, pretty easily if you, you know,
if you start mucking around with it too much. Yeah, yeah, I agree.
Hey, Ken, I found it. What did you find? Oh, the volume is down to all hang on.
I tried again. Nevermind. I'll use it later. Okay, no bother. Now, I know one bit that you
will all be dying to know is what it was like to upgrade a Fedora 14 to a Fedora 16 machine.
And the answer to that is unbelievably uneventful. So much so that everything worked.
All the proprietary applications, everything continued to work. The only thing was the audio
I didn't work and the first hit on the Fedora document page was check these things and one of
them was do you have the correct permissions? And I thought, hey, had a look and then
just added that to the groups, add them myself to that group and that was it.
There was one other issue, which I followed the bug on and that was after using it for a while.
Something I wanted to talk about, but I didn't, was as far as security is concerned,
there was three things that I have on my Fedora 16 machines, which were really easy to implement.
Number one was the hard disk encryption, which was there. Never got it sent away. It just works.
And that's supported on all distros. That's also one thing that I really like about the
CrunchBang Linux. And I definitely run that on machines upstairs, which are really Pentium 3s.
And there's no impact whatsoever on, you know, encrypting those hard disks.
So that's number one. Number two is the firewall completely transparent,
it doesn't get in the way whatsoever. And I completely forgot about there and I do an
amount of my of my machine and not comes up except SSH. Can I interrupt you for a second? Sure.
Sorry, I just noticed that my recording stopped and multi-tracked.
Quarantine, let me get that started again. I don't know when it stopped.
Yeah, part of that. I've been recording a backup session. It's not multi-track, but it is recording.
I've done. Yeah, just as, by the way, if people could FTP their recordings up to the HPR website.
I'll in the login section, I will create a directory called live show. If you can put your
recordings in there, that would be great. Even if we have them, it'd be nice just to have them as a backup.
Yep. You know, with the multi-track, mine's going to be like, I don't know, 20 different audio files.
The multi-track records a separate audio file for each person in the room.
Yeah, that's fine. Don't worry. I'll upload. Create a sub directory for yourself and then upload them.
They're in wave too. Do you want me to compress them?
Well, actually, just a matter of practice. Scratch what I said.
Pokey was important is they want to need some people.
Yeah, if you guys are recording.
I mean, I can tar them and put them on my S3 account.
Yeah, if you guys are recording, just hand on to them and if I need them, I'll ask around.
Yeah, I don't want to hit you with like five gigs of audio.
Yeah, I hear what I'll probably do is I'll figure out at what point the recording stopped and
I'll just ask you for a certain segment because I got it going again and I didn't lose anything.
It was all there just I don't know why it stopped.
Okay, I probably get a hot key or something.
I was typing in the RSC or something.
Gotcha.
Okay, well, I'll finish off this anyway.
So three things I like to about the security.
One is the encrypted hardest.
Two is the firewall to stop people in and getting in.
Three is SE Linux.
The thing that stops people.
If they do get in, it stops the people from doing anything bad.
So you got three layers of security.
Really, really nice.
Again, it chills that Fedora is coming from a more sort of corporate,
professional background.
When I installed my original version of Fedora that got me into this challenge,
SE Linux was simply unusable.
It was not possible to run a system with SE Linux.
I remember those days.
Yeah, it was just not possible to do.
In Fedora 14, it was difficult.
And I found myself just turning it off after a while because
I couldn't get it to acknowledge the fact that SSH was installed and that it needed to run.
But I left it in notification mode and it was fine.
In Fedora 16, there is no issue whatsoever.
It works if you add an additional service like SSH, for instance.
It'll just simply acknowledge that fact and continue running.
You don't even see it.
I had one occasion where I started something other and it just popped up with a bug
where it was logging through.
I prevented this program from logging to Syslog or something like that.
And I thought, oh, now what's this going to be?
SE Linux first thing of a Monday morning.
We really don't want to do that.
Had a read of the thing.
Googleed up to see what the application was whether I should allow it or not.
And there was two buttons on the thing.
One was allow, disallow, and filo bug.
So I clicked allow and then pressed filo bug.
I didn't have a bugzilla account for Fedora, which I created.
typed in my username and password.
And then pressed OK.
And immediately I had a bug file.
That afternoon came back and there was a resolution for the bug
and that added to the SE Linux thing.
You have to admit that that is some fantastic piece of code
and some fantastic response from the guys.
Yeah, I love, I thought I was very impressed with that.
It's really changed the way I can use those features now.
It's just amazing that you're, it's amazing from two different points of view.
One is to you have this level of security for free.
You know, right there, you've got a firewall, your hard,
you know, my computer gets stolen.
Well, you know, if it's turned off, nobody can decrypt the hard disk.
No, that's not to say I'm not going to go around and change all my passwords and everything,
but at least it puts up a barrier for them, you know,
before they hack into my personal files or whatever.
And then you've got this firewall that's just there running all the time,
you know, that doesn't get in your way, that doesn't stop you.
And then you've got another application that's running,
making sure that everything that's Firefox is accessing any files that it shouldn't be,
that's that I, this user, isn't accessing stuff that they shouldn't be.
And if it does, it prompts you to say, okay, this is going on.
We think it's suspicious.
Is this suspicious?
Yes or no?
And the other one, like help, help your fellow man,
and submit a book so that we can fix it,
so that nobody else is going to be bugged with this time.
And that folks was the end of my fedora route.
How quickly time was went by?
Can't give it a star rating for us.
I would put it equal to Debian.
Oh, it's a, that's high for ease.
Yeah, now I have the choice where I'm thinking,
in work, I would just have a Debian server running because,
you know, that's just nice rocks to solid stable.
But for my desktops, I found myself saying to the guys,
you know, you might want to consider installing a fedora-based distro
because of the support for third party apps.
So, you know, I didn't know anything about that,
sort of like support for third party stuff,
because I don't really, I don't use any of those things,
but that's very interesting to know about and good to know about.
I mean, if you think about it, a lot of the Linux,
you know, the proprietary companies like VMware,
whatever, all this, and Red Hat machines underneath,
and things like a checkpoint or whatever.
So, if there are going to be Linux clients,
more than likely, they're going to be Red Hat-based Linux clients,
in which case you've got the libraries for them already in Fedora.
Yeah, that's a good point.
Actually, I did encounter that once.
There was a specialized camera that we were using,
and the driver was not open source,
but they did have an installer for it,
and the installer happened to RPM, you know, out of the box.
I'm sure you could put it through Alien and convert it and stuff,
but it was, by default, packaged as an RPM.
So, whether I would recommend it to people, yes, I would, in work,
whether I will continue using it on my laptop, I guess I will.
On my desktop, I don't know.
I've been using CrunchBring there as well, so I don't know.
But, you know, choice is good.
That is all you can now talk to somebody else.
To put glass for a case, I'd like to take this opportunity, if I may.
If there's anybody listening on the stream,
and you want to get in on the conversation,
this is a round table, and it's a revolving door of sorts.
If you want to just pop in anytime, you're welcome to do,
so you don't have to feel compelled to the whole time.
And, yeah, just pop in and chat with us.
We love it.
Head over to hackerpublicradio.org
and see the instructions there for configuring your mumbles,
so that we'll all be able to hear you.
Thanks.
And with that, I just want to put on my admin hat again,
and say that I've updated the website with the how-to.
Thank you very much for some Kevin, I think,
put that in the show notes, did a how-to,
and how to configure a mumble for us.
So, if you want to use that.
And also, Dan from the Linuxing TechShield
has got a dial-in number for asterix,
which is get your pens, everybody get a pen,
plus one for the US.
So, 4, 8, 4, 5, 4, 9,
1, 5, 7, 7, and at the prompt, you press 2.
If you've got a sip, then you can connect to 8,
2, 2, 2, at 9, 8, dot 1, 7, 4, dot, blah, blah,
it's on the website.
So, go to hackerpublicradio.org
and you get the connection details there.
That means you digs it.
I see you in the chat room making excuses
that you don't have a mic, but now you can phone it in.
You think I spoke too soon.
Also, I put on the new radio.net
has a script for a flash player script
for streaming the audio live on the web page.
So, that's on hackerpublicradio.org,
hoppypublicradio.org, and virtuallog.org.
You have been listening to HackerPublicRadio
at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever considered recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
HackerPublicRadio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are proud to sponsor by lunar pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stated,
today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a like, free.or license.
