Episode: 808
Title: HPR0808: Interview with Yancy Smith
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0808/hpr0808.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 02:52:01

---

All right, everybody.
Here and there.
Mm mm.
All right, I'm morning.
So, hi, I'm here with Yancey Smith.
He was doing a donation project, he called the Scrapper Project here itself.
I just wanted to ask him a couple of questions about it. Hi, Yancey.
So tell me about it.
Well, best of all, I'm real locked and when I take time, I will take all computer from labs
and computer stores and give them to me, I will suck them and get someone else.
And a couple of days ago, I had that clearance and talking to the database or our president
and say, can we do this in our function?
And I sent out to our club members and my Facebook friends and we didn't put on the general list,
we were just trying to sell.
We didn't kind of donations this time, but some of us brought some stuff in and made with me,
but also all the stuff in to get rid of because I don't have the room.
And it didn't turn out so well, but had a couple of bags sitting with the Athens team home,
so they enjoyed that.
That's cool. I got some other questions here. I just want to bring them up.
Let's see here. So is this mostly you organized this on your own?
Yeah, but I'm working with a free Carolina PC Foundation.
I emailed them and they said, well, that would be glad to take them.
And they emailed me back.
I emailed Athens with the guy, but they didn't get mine all the time.
But I said, next year, I told him such and such, and he would know who to work on too.
I'll be able to willing to open to anyone.
This is the first year you've done this, or?
Yeah, it's first time.
It's an ad hoc thing, the club itself, the links group we have, the meritocracy,
but I still ask for missions.
Cool. And who are you going to give the donated computers to?
Or other foundations?
Mainly, if I had met something here, we would have met a three-way split.
Who needs what parts?
I found out the Carolina wanted hard drives and certain memory-six and things.
They would have got that three-f-t-I-t that they have certain books, certain amounts that they want,
and what they want, I would take home or send them to us.
I'd like to know me down the road.
Okay.
And did you look at any other projects?
I know you contacted some people, but did you look at other similar things that people have done online,
like, say, free geek or heliosinitiative or anything like that for ideas?
Yeah, mainly it's between, I haven't heard them too much, but like I said,
I'm following the guidelines of the Carolina Priests they had, some of the Athens stuff.
I had no work with it.
I had contact with them last year, as well.
It would be something I can use.
Okay.
You said something in the Facebook post you sent me about the Linux being required
by South Carolina State Law.
Could you explain it a little more?
Well, that was a misstatement.
What I want to say was that by state law we're required to send the parts and the metals stuff,
not in the trash they send it to a scrapyard.
Oh, okay.
But the part about the Linux is I put Linux on there because it wipes the drive-in completely clearly
because of data retention laws South Carolina.
See, a lot of stores are going to a thrift store, like a goodwill or a turf store.
They don't really walk down the street and run bill.
I don't have the fortune.
I'll just erase a couple of directories and think it's sanitized.
That is a dangerous thing to do today.
Yes, I know.
Plus, also, the license needs to use a rebuild the Windows.
I do that only whenever I've got the key.
That's just a lot of them.
Either if I have a dollar left key, I'll still put links on the top of it.
It says if there's a technical issue with the Windows.
I could recover it, but also I try to introduce them to the Linux.
It's called games, software, photos.
Everything is free.
Everything is legally transferable.
Especially, there's an application called Photo Wall or Photogram.
It's still like apples when you fly back and forth through your photos.
That's a cool thing.
Cool.
And I had one last question here.
Glad.
Got any stuff for me?
Not much left.
I have to stick out with my stuff.
All right.
Thanks a lot, Nancy.
I appreciate your time.
Okay.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday and Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share alike, details or licenses.
