Episode: 263
Title: HPR0263: 1 year anniversary special
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0263/hpr0263.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 15:02:25

---

All right.
A lot of you have told me, recorded live.
It's just fun.
Anyway, I'm going to chop this off, but.
Okay.
So, you ready?
Yeah.
Okay.
Get my radio voice.
Thank you very much for your job at this and me, but Eric Agnes.
All right.
So, welcome to another episode of HPR.
I'm your host, Enigma.
And today is the first episode of season two of HECK Public Radio.
With me is a special guest.
You want to introduce yourself.
I am the winter mute version two.
Winter mute version two.
Or, what do you go by in IRC?
Would you be 21?
Yeah.
And I'm sure you've seen him also in the forums saying, handle.
You want to tell me why you picked that handle, by the way?
Just curious.
Well, I'm a big fan of the book Neuromancer.
I believe you've said I'm sure a lot of actors in front of it.
I actually haven't listened to the book.
I read the book.
I read the book and I had no idea where the handle came from.
So, that's just me.
Well, now you know.
I guess I do know.
So, today we're going to talk about, basically, we're going to go through season one
and talk about some of the shows that we liked and winter mute will inject his comments
and, you know, heckling me and stuff, you know, as needed.
Also, just an announcement before we get started.
Winter mute and Class 2 will be backing me up, or if you want to call it,
HPR staff, from this point forward, and they will be doing some grunt work for me
and, you know, being my little minions, but at the side of the point.
And, you know, people can shoot them hate mail instead of me.
Anyway, so I'm moving on.
So, we're going to start from episode 1, which was a year ago today, January 1st of 2008.
Thank an eye.
We're on the show, introducing our new idea, and it really wasn't new since we started, you know,
with Twatt Tech, and, you know, we moved to HPR.
But that was, you know, our first episode of HPR.
So, after that, the next notable one I have on my list is the first series.
So, we had this idea of doing serieses, and basically they're, you know, subsets of shows,
and they have their own little button on the side of the page.
You can go and view all the shows of each series.
And the first series was Databases 101, and that was by Stank Dog,
and it was January 8th of last year.
So, you know, Stank did quite a few shows there at the beginning.
Well, was that, I can tell, and a lot from that one.
That was very informative.
Yes, he did two or three episodes of that series.
So, yeah, I do recommend that one.
That one was kind of enlightening for someone who's not a DBA.
It was kind of, you know, basic fundamentals of databases.
The next one on my list is the Aces E, the triple EPC review.
Back when the triple E's were brand new, and that was on the 10th of January.
That was with Mubics and Red Anthrax on a conference line.
That was actually our first dual hosting duties as well.
And then following that, we had the Linux Boot Process Part 1.
In my opinion, the best technical series,
it was a really good job with the boot process,
and he did like six or seven of those,
and all of which were very good technical episodes.
So, check those out.
The first interview we had was Ed Piscore.
I hope I said his name, right?
Piscore, Piscore, any idea how to say that one?
P-I-S-K-O-R.
I was right.
Sorry for put your name if you're listening.
But he's the guy that did the wizzy wig thread on the forums
and did the graphic novel,
and that was by a thank dog to that area of you.
After that, another episode by thank dog,
I told you, it did a lot of episodes back when we first started,
was the software review of KeyPath,
and the reason that one was notable was the fact that they were the first non-DDP site
or non-BinRub site that put up a link to us.
I think the Linux link did as well back in the day,
but they were the ones that had never heard of us before,
but they put up a link because we did that software review.
The next one on the list is Intel Virtualization Technologies,
Episode 31, which was on 211.
That was our most downloaded show,
and I have no idea why it was the most downloaded show.
Now granted, it was a good show,
but it blew everybody out of the water,
and stills blown everybody out of the water with the most downloads.
I think it had like 12,000 or 13,000 downloads.
The MirrorVigin did that one,
and he did a really good job on the show,
but I don't know if a crawler grabbed that one,
or it wasn't dug or anything.
Good job on the show, but anyway.
The first lug was on 213,
and that was Episode 32.
That was the UCLug,
and they were the first guys that actually put their lug on HBR,
and since then, I think we have four lugs that do it.
UCLug, maybe only three.
UtahLug and the ECLug.
And the next one on the list is a wee bit of hacking with the wee-mote.
Marguelen is probably no offense to anybody,
but probably the host that I like to listen to the most.
He's a funny guy,
and he did a hardware hacking episode with the wee-mote,
which was quite entertaining.
Did you listen to that one when I met him?
No, no, but I have been on the other podcast
with Marguelen in the past,
and I gotta say he's a lot of fun.
Yeah, he's a lot of fun.
He's one of our old plot tech hosts,
and he's been doing shows for two, three years for me now,
and he's a good guy.
And that's my shameless plug for Marguelen.
So anyway, the first on-music episode was episode 64,
that was the tech music series,
and it's Paisen under a street light by DJ Boo.
This was a guy that I found on the internet,
and I was looking for something different to put on the show,
and if anybody out there is listening,
that wants to do some type of music and throw on the show,
so you know me, or you know us, rather.
And we'll get something up there for you,
but I wanted to do like an all songs considered,
and you've listened to NPR,
when are you having you?
NPR, National Public Radio?
Yeah, yeah.
They have an all songs considered,
and they just play music.
And I wanted to do something like that,
but I didn't want to be a complete rip-off.
And later on, the down the line,
I was a complete rip-off,
because now there's a mini-series called All Songs Considered.
So yeah, I'm lame like that.
But anyway, this was the first on-music episode.
Episode 66 was the April Fool's Day tradition by Stank Dog,
and at least to say it was interesting,
you should check it out.
It gave me some hate mail actually,
because people wanted to actually listen to the episode.
So 66A is actually out there as well.
It's not up on the site,
but if you, the episode's directory is open,
so if you just do,
HPR or HackPullCradio.org,
SlashApps,
SlashHPR0066A,
you'll get that episode,
which is listenable,
or you can actually understand the words.
Anyway, moving on.
The next episode is the most commented episode.
I know you've listened to this one when you're muted.
Oh, yeah.
Episode 69.
I'm going to say it was a cluster.
I got so much hate mail for this,
and if you look at the site
and goes the comment section under this show,
it's,
yeah, I'll just leave it at that.
It was Stank and DeepGeek,
and they did a good job.
I think it was an absolutely hilarious show.
It was a little over the top, though,
and I'll just leave it at that.
So, I'll just link the link on that one.
Well, yeah, I have to say that was the re-intertaining.
And where else could you figure,
and where else could you find out what a cold faithful was?
Yeah, I'm just going to ignore that and move on.
Anyway,
the next show on my list is a phone review with Kojiri,
and sorry for butchering your names, guys.
But here's a Linux blind user,
or a blind Linux user, rather.
And he had an interview with Dave Yates,
which was very well done,
and it was episode 84.
And the guy is just impressive.
He's a screen reader
to be on IRC.
He's in the pound model links, links,
and a couple of other ones if you want to talk to him,
but he's just impressive.
Anyway, episode 95 was our first spoof episode,
and it was Rowling Golfor,
and he did a security now spoof,
and it's security wow.
Pretty funny.
I would suggest checking that one out.
Now we're up the episode 100.
And something to note here,
we did 100 episodes in five-and-a-half months,
which I just think is amazing.
We still haven't missed a day yet,
and this will be 263,
when the films are released.
Anyway, back.
So we had two special guests on this,
Dole Parallel.
I'm sure everybody that's been around the scene has heard of Dole,
and Jeroops were also on the show,
and it was a hacker media who worked for RFA.
And if you haven't listened to RFA,
go to oldschoolfreak.com,
and there's an archive of the RFA shows.
They did 99 episodes.
They were pretty much,
they're pretty much why we're here today.
Dole had the idea of hacker public radio.
It was his baby back in the day,
and we just made it a reality for him.
So we talked about that on that episode,
and that one is quite a good episode, indeed.
So we're up to our first Doug episode,
and I'm not a big fan of Dig,
but Foxfire did an episode on the Blindenburg Group
and Kindspace Project.
That was episode 117,
and that was Doug.
I don't know exactly how many times,
but it showed up in my logs,
which is the reason why I put it on here.
Episode 136 was intercepting satellite transmissions
There was a good post by Drake and Ubisoft.
This one, it's a really cool hack.
You should check out the forums for more information on that one,
and you could probably just search for intercepting satellite transmissions
and get it.
Which Drake is a long time host for our show anyway,
and he's a good guy.
Episode 178 was the Google Chrome episode.
It was two days after its release.
That was my episode,
and I did enjoy playing around with Chrome to do that one.
Linux MCE interviews.
MCE is the media center edition,
and it's just not a myth TV myth box.
It is a complete home automation application.
You can install cards to do crazy things,
like turn your lights on and off,
open your door,
send messages to your cell phone,
things like that.
It's quite impressive.
Our 200th episode was on 106.
Just for our firmware reference,
when I was doing TWOTEC,
we did 300 episodes in two and a half years.
We did 200 episodes in 10 months.
With HBR.
Quite impressive.
Our Halloween episode was,
it was a web day of how-to by Daviates.
With a surprise ending,
Davi did a good job on that one.
I'll just leave it at that and you can listen to it.
And 258th, the last one on my list,
and it was our Christmas special.
And our first conference,
we used TOXU,
which actually doesn't suck as much as I thought it was going to.
And it was supposed to be streamed live,
and didn't.
We had some technical difficulty,
and we were going to get some live shows in the future,
just that one didn't happen.
Quad shoes had some real-life issues,
and I had some internet trouble.
So, we didn't get that one out.
But anyway, it's up on the site.
If you want to listen to it,
it is a complete cluster,
and there's eight guys and girls.
Let me rephrase that.
Are you chosen, Coffin, Plexi?
There were some girls on the conference.
Yes, it's amazing.
We do have women.
Now, one is my girlfriend,
but, you know, one isn't.
So, anyway.
So, 258 was our last big show,
and then we had, I think, three or four shows since then.
This one's 263.
This, again, is the first episode of season two.
So, now we're going to talk about what we want to do
and moving forward.
Do you have any comments, questions, anything?
Are you just going to remain silent for the entire show
and make me do all the work?
Oh, no.
Oh, no.
I pledge to be a very active participant.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, we're going to now talk about some enhancements to the site
that our good friend, Winter Mutes, is going to do.
So, do you want to talk about him or do you want me to talk about him?
Does this matter?
I'll take it.
You can do it.
But, oh, thanks.
You're going to make me talk the entire time.
Thank you.
Okay.
So, our first thing that I want to do is,
I want to put up a vote for your favorite episode of the thing.
Now, don't send me hate mail.
This doesn't happen in the next, you know, six months a year.
We might be talking about the same things the next anniversary.
So, you know, real life does happen.
So, I'm just throwing these things out as possible enhancements.
So, vote for your favorite episode link or, you know,
for basically you would be able to check a show and say,
this was my favorite, you know, blah, blah, blah.
And also, with that, I wanted to put a download link so you can see how many times each show is downloaded,
which I've had, you know, I've had hosts ask me, you know, how many times is X been downloaded.
So, I wanted it, you know, visible on the site.
The next thing I wanted to do was put some enhancements to the calendar.
The calendar right now sucks, sorry, groups, you know, but it does.
Troops did the initial implementation of our HBR site.
It did a great job, but we want to do some enhancements because the calendar does really suck.
It's basically just a text file.
And with that, I want to do some automation, like automate ID3 tags, things like that.
A lot of backend stuff that you're never going to see on the front end,
just to make my life a little easier, make winter mutes a little easier,
and make clutches a little easier.
So, they're going to be doing some of my grunt work as well.
Yeah.
Anyway.
For the evil minions.
What?
For the evil minions to your doctor evil?
Yes, yes, yes.
We're going to my little mini-needs, but you don't look like me, so we'll go with evil minions for now.
So, should I get you guys shirts that say HBR evil minion?
Or you could just, or we could just put it in our thing in the form, either way.
Yeah, we could do that.
I always wanted to see.
One thing about the forums is, since I'm a moderator or DDP member or whatever,
a super admin of the forums, I can't change my own damn title,
because I don't have a thousand posts on the forum.
So, and you can't change root admin signatures.
I can change anybody else's by mine.
Wow.
What the hell?
Thank you, Envision, for, you know, making my life.
Because I wanted to put HBR overlord on the, as my signature.
But I got to either get to a thousand posts, or that's the only way I can do it,
because I can't change, because no one can change a root admin signature.
Damn it.
The little, I'm talking about the little title on the left hand side,
you know, where your avatar is.
It's the demo of that, right?
Yeah, if you, if you're to a thousand posts, you can change it.
And I can change anyone's, but I can't change my own, which was anyway.
I guess I could put it in my sig, but yeah, yeah.
It's not the same.
Anyway, moving on.
So, those are the enhancements I want to do.
And if anybody has any other enhancements they'd like to see,
feel free to email us often directly.
They're a winner mute, so he can get right on it,
since he's my little evil minion.
Anyway.
Also, I wanted to talk about some, some of the things that I'd like to see as,
as shows, since everybody asks me, you know, what's your,
what's your idea on, on this, you know.
They, they give me a show idea and say,
well, you think about me doing this.
And normally I say, go ahead and do it.
Let's see, you know, what happens.
But I want to do, one thing I wanted to do, and this was Stank's idea,
it was to do a roundtable discussion every month on, like,
a conference line, and we just pick a random topic for discussion,
you know, something that's in the field or, you know,
something, some breaking news, and we all sit around and talk about it.
I bring, you know, three or four guys in that, you know,
have some experience in the, in the subject, and I'm the moderator
or platoon or winner mute or whoever.
And it's the moderator and says, you know, I want to talk about this.
We're going to do that probably once a month,
and I don't exactly know what our first topic is going to be,
but it'll be toward the end of January.
So if anybody has any ideas on topics,
you know us, we'll probably take your idea.
Or, you know, later in the year, we'll do your idea, but you're regardless.
Another idea is for a show idea in the game review.
I did the first one, I did for some least.
It, sorry about the audio quality guys, but yeah, I did suck that one up.
My new triple E has an onboard mic,
and the sound recorder on it, very nice,
but it picks up a lot of ambient noise, and it did sound pretty bad.
So, I'm sorry, but anyway.
So you have a triple E, winner mute?
No, I don't.
I do recommend picking them one up.
It's quite handy, quite handy indeed,
and the battery on it alone is well worth the price of it.
It's got a four hour, I get about four and a half hours out of my triple E on one charge,
so that is very, comes in very much handy when I just, you know,
forget to charge my laptop every once in a while.
Like I normally do.
Yeah, it seems like a neat, it seems like a really cool thing.
It's just not something I have to cast for at the moment.
Yeah, I understand, and you're going to school, so I can understand.
You can understand.
Yeah, and yeah, and I'm going back to school too,
so I probably don't have the money, but here it goes.
So that game reviews, any hardware reviews,
I'd like to get a series like on basic networking concepts.
Stank has this idea back in the day, like you would pick,
like not necessarily, you know, networking 101,
but just pick, like, a topic within networking.
Like, let's say, just do a description of what a VLAN is.
It would be a quick show, you know, five minutes.
Here's what a VLAN is, and here's what, you know,
what the applications of a VLAN are.
Or here's, you know, what ARP is, and here's what you can do with ARP.
Something like that, that would be a real quick show
that would get a good networking, or be a real basic networking concepts.
I don't know, just an idea.
And also, one enhancement that we might want to do with the site
is have, like, a show list of neat ideas that people could, you know,
contribute, and we put it on the, on the list.
What do you think?
I think that's a good idea.
You never know.
Yeah, have, like, a page, have, like, a page of show ideas,
and then, when somebody sent in an idea, we could put it on there,
and then, once somebody's done it, we take it off.
Kind of, like, you know, a little to-do list or something.
Because, eventually, we're going to get, so, you know,
maybe shows that we're going to, I'm not going to remember what we did.
So, maybe, eh, it's not a bad idea.
That one was spontaneous on me, so I'll figure something out.
Anyway, so, I think that's about it for our first episode.
We've been talking for probably 20, 30 minutes now,
and any other thing, winter mute, or be good.
I'm good.
I'm good.
Well, fine.
You said you're having me on the show, and I appreciate it.
I'm very excited to be joining the team and getting to work, and, you know.
Hey, you sound like you're applying for a job, dude.
Anyway.
But, yeah, we have fun around here, and I would,
if anybody has any suggestions, you know, comments, please email us.
Admin at Hacker Public Radio, you can get to me.
Feedback at Hacker Public Radio will probably get all of us eventually,
and I'll forward along the admin stuff that I, you know,
if you need to talk to one of the guys, and I'm probably going to get them individual email addresses.
So, you'll have the ability to contact them directly.
So, you'll probably get an extra email address.
That was the old winter mute, so.
Not that you need one, but, hey.
What the hell?
And thank finally got me my bin rev email address, but I won't go there.
But, yeah, you can get me also at enigma.binrev.com will also get to me.
So, that's about it for season, or episode one of season two,
and we'll see everybody tomorrow.
Hopefully I have a calendar out by tomorrow, because I don't have one right now,
but that's my problem.
And we'll see everyone tomorrow, and have a good day.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over to C-A-R-O dot anything for all of those of you.
Thank you.
