Episode: 570
Title: HPR0570: New google privacy policy
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0570/hpr0570.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 23:17:43

---

.
Welcome to today's episode on Hacker Public Radio. My name is Tanya Steak, Digital Automated
Rator provided by the Packer G-Speak. I'm doing a show because you didn't so don't even
dare to complain. Anyway I'm going to read for you the new Google Privacy Policy, which
will take effect on October 3, 2010. Let's begin. This Privacy Policy applies to all
of the products, services, and websites offered by Google Inc. sub-series or affiliated companies
except post-init, post-init privacy policy. Sometimes, we may post product-specific
privacy notices or help center materials to explain our products in more detail.
If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, please feel free to contact us
through our website or write to us at Privacy Matters.
See such a Google Inc. 1,600 Amphitheater Parkway, Mountain View, California, 94,043, USA.
Information we collect and how we use it. We may collect the following types of information,
information you provide, when you sign up for a Google account, we ask you for personal
information. We may combine the information you submit under your account with information
from other Google services or third parties in order to provide you with a better experience
and to improve the quality of our services. For certain services, we may give you the opportunity
to opt out of combining such information. You can use the Google Dashboard to earn more about
the information associated with your account. If you are using Google Services in conjunction with
your Google Apps account, Google provides such services in conjunction with or on behalf of your
domain administrator. Your administrator will have access to your account information including
your email. Consult your domain administrators' privacy policy for more information.
Cookies, when you visit Google, we send one or more cookies to your computer or other device.
We use cookies to improve the quality of our service, including for storing user preferences,
improving search results, and add selection, and tracking user trends, such as how people search.
Google also uses cookies in its advertising services to help advertisers, and publish a serve,
and manage ads across the web, and on Google Services.
Log information, when you access Google Services, our server automatically record information
at your browser sends whenever you visit a website. These server logs may include information
such as your web request, your interaction with a service, internet protocol address, browser type,
browser language, the date, and time of your request, and one or more cookies that may uniquely
identify your browser or your account. Use a communications, when you send email or other
communications to Google, we may retain those communications in order to process your inquiries,
respond to your requests, and improve our services. When you send and receive SMS messages to
or from one of our services at provide SMS functionality, we may collect and maintain information
associated with those messages, such as the phone number, the wireless career associated with
the phone number, the content of the message, and the date and time of the transaction.
We may use your email address to communicate with you about our services,
affiliated Google Services on other sites. We offer some on our services on or through other
websites. Personal information that you provide to those sites may be sent to Google in order to
deliver the service. We process such information under this privacy policy. Third-party applications,
Google may make available third-party applications, such as gadgets or extensions, through its
services. The information collected by Google when you enable a third-party application is processed
under this privacy policy. Information collected by the third-party application provided is governed
by privacy policies. Location later, Google offers location enabled services, such as Google Maps
and Attitude. If you use those services, Google may receive information about your actual location,
such as GPS signals sent by a mobile device or information that can be used to approximate a location,
such as a cell ID, unique application number, certain services, such as Google toolbar, include
a unique application number that is not associated with your account or you. This number,
and information about your installation, e.g. not, operating system type, version number,
may be sent to Google when you install or uninstall that service, when that service periodically
contacts our service, for example, to request automatic updates to the software.
Other sites, this privacy policy applies to Google services only. We do not exercise control
over the sites displayed as search results, sites that include Google applications,
products or services, or links from within our various services. The other sites may place
their own cookies or other files on your computer, collect data, or solicit personal information
from you. In addition to the number, we may use the information we collect to provide,
maintain, protect, and improve our services, including advertising services, and develop new
services, and protect the rights or property of Google or our users. If we use this information
in a manner different and the purpose for which it was collected, then we will ask for your consent
prior to such use. Google processes personal information on our service in the United States
of America and in other countries. In some cases, we process personal information outside your own
country, choices. You can use the Google dashboard to review, and control the information stored
in your Google account. Most browsers are initially set up to accept cookies, but you can reset
your browser to review all cookies, or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. However,
some Google features and services may not function properly if your cookies are disabled.
Google uses the double-click advertising cookie on ads and sites, and certain Google services to
help advertisers, and publish a serve, and manage ads across the web. You can view, and manage
your ads preferences associated with this cookie by accessing the ads preferences manager.
In addition, you may choose to opt out of the double-click cookie at any time by using double-click
opt-out cookie, information sharing, Google only shares personal information with other companies,
or individuals outside of Google in the following limited circumstances. We have your consent.
We require opt-in consent for the sharing of any sensitive personal information. We provide such
information to our subsidiaries, affiliated companies, or other trusted businesses, or persons
for the purpose of processing personal information on our behalf. We require at least
part in a beta process such information based on our instructions, and in compliance with
this privacy policy, and any other appropriate confidentiality, and security measures.
We have a good faith-belief access, use, preservation, or disclosure on such information is
reasonably necessary to satisfy any applicable law, regulation, legal process, or enforceable
governmental request, the enforce applicable terms on service, including investigation on
potential violations are wrong, seek detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security,
or technical issues, or be protect against harm to the rights, property, or safety of Google,
its users, or the public, as required or permitted by law. If Google becomes involved in a merger,
acquisition, or any form on sale on some, or all of its assets, we will ensure the confidentiality
of any personal information involved in such transactions, and provide notice before personal
information is transferred, and becomes subject to a different privacy policy. Information security,
we take appropriate security measures to protect against unauthorized access to, or unauthorized
alteration, disclosure, or destruction of data. These include internal reviews of our data collection,
storage, and processing practices, and security measures, including appropriate encryption,
and physical security measures to guard against unauthorized access to systems, where we store
personal data. We restrict access to personal information to Google employees, contractors,
and agents who need to know that information in order to process it on our behalf.
These individuals are bound by confidentiality obligations, and may be subject to discipline,
including termination, and criminal prosecution, if they fail to meet the obligations,
accessing, and updating personal information. When you use Google services, we make good faith
efforts to provide you with access to your personal information, and either to correct this data,
if it is inaccurate, or to delete such data at your request, if it is not otherwise required
to be retained by law, or for legitimate business purposes. We ask individual users to identify
themselves, and the information requested to be accessed, corrected, or removed before processing
such requests, and we may decline to process requests at unreasonably repetitive, or systematic,
required disproportionate technical effort, jeopardize the privacy of others, or would be extremely
impractical, for instance, request concerning information residing on backup tapes, or for which
access is not otherwise required. In any case, where we provide information access, and correction,
we perform this service free of charge, except if doing so will require a disproportionate effort,
because of the way we maintain certain services, after you delete your information, residual copies
may take a period of time before they are deleted from our active servers, and may remain in our backup
systems. Please review the service health centers for more information.
Enforcement. Google adheres to the U.S. Safe Harbor Privacy Principles of Notice,
Choice, Onward Transfer, Security, Data Integrity, Access, and Enforcement, and is registered
with the U.S. Department of Commerce's Safe Harbor Program. Google regularly renews its compliance
with this privacy policy. When we receive formal written complaints, it is Google's policy to
contact the complaining user regarding his or her concerns. We will cooperate with the appropriate
regulatory authorities, including local data protection authorities, to resolve any complaints
regarding the transfer of personal data that cannot be resolved between Google and an individual.
Changes to this privacy policy. Please note that this privacy policy may change from time to time.
We will not reduce your rights under this privacy policy without your explicit consent.
We will post any privacy policy changes on this page, and if the changes are significant,
we will provide a more prominent notice, including, for certain services,
email notification on privacy policy changes. We will also keep prior versions of this privacy
policy in an archive for your review. In the end, okay, that's it. I hope you enjoyed the show.
I remember you can also contribute to HPRI by emailing admin at hackerpublicradio.com.
Thank you for listening to hacker public radio. HPR is sponsored by Carol.net.
She'll head on over to CARO.NET for all of her speed.
