Episode: 885
Title: HPR0885: Redo Backup and Recovery 1.0.1.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0885/hpr0885.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 04:05:24

---

Hi, this is John in SC.
This time around I wanted to discuss a backup and recovery program I found for work.
It's called redo backup and recovery version 1.0.1.
The website is redobackup.org.
This is a live CD, it's about 200 Megan size.
Before I work we do a technology refresh every 5 years or so I have to replace all of
the computers which is a little over 200 of them.
So I normally make an image and get all of the windows updates and most of the settings
all done on one machine and make an image of it and copy that image onto the others
and then do whatever I need to do to get the machines working for each individual.
I have a version of ghost and a version of a cronus which I've been using in the past
but naturally they won't work on Windows 7 Professional which is what we were getting
on our new machines.
They were optoplet 780s.
So I went in to try and find something just basic and simple to make backups with.
It'd be an accompanying I could have bought the latest ghost and just tried to use it but
I've always disliked ghost.
I have found very few programs that were just basic, simple.
All I want to do is make it back up and I want to restore it.
I don't want to do anything else.
I want it as easy as it can.
I don't want to take notes.
So the next time I do it I have to read my notes to remember what I did.
So I connected a hard drive up to this system and booted into it, the live CD and to my
surprise right in the middle of the screen and had two icons.
The left side was marked back up and the right side was marked with store.
I thought well this looks good so I clicked on the back up and all it asked me for was
to select the source drive and I click next.
Select which partitions to back up by clicking an arrow in a box.
Click next, tell it where the destination drive is, which you select from a list and then
you browse to the exact place on the drive or you can create a new folder where you want
to put the image.
You select save here, then you click next, you provide a name of the file, click next
again and the back up starts.
The machine I was working on was had a 232 gigabyte drive with 19.1 gigabyte used.
The back up took a little under 10 minutes to do the whole drive.
This was very good in comparison to some of the others I've used and couldn't be in
simpler at all.
When I went to restore it onto the next computer I had the same simple menu system this time
I clicked restore, I selected the images that I wanted to restore and told it where I
wanted to put it and under 10 minutes later I had a system that was an exact duplicate
of the first one.
It could not have been easier.
I had a friend ask me well can you select the type encryption you use and I said no.
He said can you break the image into smaller chunks and I said no.
I said the reason I selected this and the reason I'm showing it to you is because it's
simple.
You just do a backup and you do a restore and you finished.
It was exactly what I was looking for.
I thought there would be other people out there in the hacker public radio land that might
find some use for this program so I thought I would go ahead and do a podcast about it.
If you know of another program or one that you prefer why don't you do a podcast on it.
HPR always needs new podcasters.
Thanks for listening.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio where Hacker Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday and Monday through Friday.
Today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HPR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the economical and computer
club.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the binary revolution at binref.com or binref projects
are crowd-responsive by LUNA pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds go to LUNA pages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis today's show is released on your creative commons, attribution, share
a lot.
He does our license.
