Episode: 121
Title: HPR0121: Linguistic Public Radio
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0121/hpr0121.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 11:44:43

---

music
Hi, welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio. This is Plexi and I'll be your host
this evening. This episode isn't very technical. It basically sketches a project I'm working
on for the summer and I'm shamelessly plugging it in my HBR episode. This might be interesting
for those of you who are interested in linguistics and languages, AI, that kind of stuff. The project
consists of a forum, an RRC server, a podcast, and a general news page for linguistics. Kind
of like Ben Rev, except for linguistics instead of hacking. The purpose of the project is to
build a community, community of linguistic, linguistic tackers, I guess. People who aren't
necessarily academically or professionally involved in either linguistics or computer science. But to
have the curiosity in the world to do fun stuff related to linguistics, language, AI, you know,
that kind of stuff. This being a one person project so far, I'd really appreciate any comment,
suggestion, feedback, and help. The podcast will start as a weekly radio show until I gather enough
hosts to get a daily or every other day show going on. I'll offer free hosting for advertisement
as long as they are relevant and useful to the community. For instance, relevant job listings
for linguists are useful and would get posted. Mail enhancement techniques are not
relevant, they are not useful and would not get posted. There's a related comic made by a
friend of mine that will be updated once a month, that will be posted on there. The news feed will
be at the beginning, added manually, because I'm not sure I want to evolve good Google
crawlers or anything like that yet. And then hopefully, when I build a crawler, I'll set up some
kind of controlled news feed that only puts relevant news to like the field. So far, the
chat is going to be a PGRC applet to a server that is dedicated for linguistics. There will be
free opening of channels. Well, anyone can open a channel, but there will also be about 10 channels
that will always be there. I'm currently looking for podcasts hosts, anyone who's good in PHP and
would be interested in working on the crawler would be very useful too. I'm definitely looking
for feedback and well, that's pretty much it. Anyone who's willing to join would be great.
