Episode: 424
Title: HPR0424: TiT Radio Episode 006
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0424/hpr0424.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 20:21:53

---

Music
Hello and welcome to Tip Radio, I'm Monster B, and sitting at the round table with me tonight
is Peter 64, Jay Lindsay, Clot 2, 330, Zoke, and Asma, good evening, how's everybody
doing tonight?
Pretty good, this is a very nice round table that you have.
It's pretty awesome.
Yeah, well, what is the instruction?
Yeah.
Oh, and this is episode 6, did I say that?
No, you didn't.
OK, it's episode 6.
You throw the table out each time because this table is holding up really nicely.
Try not to lean back and I chair 330.
That one leg is broken.
All right, let's check our feedback, and we did get some feedback.
Oh, we did?
Yeah.
Oh, I remember that.
Yeah.
Oh, are you talking about the one that's actually posted in HPR, that comment?
Yeah.
That's a good one.
That is actually.
Yeah, everyone good to episode 5, and just follow the instructions.
At the top.
Yeah.
Five of you.
Five of listeners.
Yes, both of you guys do that.
Well, there's some more.
One of them already did.
Yeah, me.
That's a funny one.
Yeah, you have to see it.
I really explained this one.
So what else did we get, Peter?
Yeah, we got quite a few.
I can't remember.
As a centrist one, as a will.
I can't remember if we talked about the open videos on daily motion of that.
But that on Linux Prank saw.
That's a matter anyway.
I just remember one show we would find to find all the open videos on daily motion,
and then Baza.
E-Martison told us what a bunch of wrong guys we were,
and if you go to openvideo.dailymotion.com,
is where you're going to find them all.
And even if you could test it.
Yeah, that's right.
You also send us what you got that there, Clotton?
That was youtube.com-html5, I believe.
Yeah.
And I believe that didn't work for me, or something.
I think it worked a bit better.
But I couldn't watch any of the videos if I could sort of call correctly.
It could be wrong.
Well, definitely did daily motion one work.
I've been there.
Yeah, I've been there.
The motion one worked, that was pretty neat.
Yeah.
So anyway, there you go.
I can't remember what episode that was.
But that's, if you're looking for the open videos using Fiora and old Forbes,
or whatever it always, and go there.
Now, okay.
We actually have a couple from BSD users, which is really good.
Now, I'm going to read these.
The first one's not so long, and the last one is really long.
But anyway, we'll read the first one, and then we might have a discussion,
and we'll talk about the next one.
Okay.
First of all, I've attached the picture of the 2004 open BSD hackathon.
In this picture, you'll find that pretty much all the developers going to this event have laptops.
Using open BSD on a laptop myself, I can attest to the fact that BSD culture
is not desktop computer centric, as mentioned in this episode.
The reason why I, myself, run open BSD most of the time,
is simply because of the speed of the installation and configuration.
I also very much like the port tree, because you don't need to reconstruct
the build system for almost anything on there.
This makes it possible to just start hacking at the source of almost any program
on your computer with very little effort, and that's fun.
More generally, however, I find that most Units are so similar in nature
and mostly all the same programs that it doesn't really matter what you run.
Like, for instance, I've always told people I run Linux when I actually run BSD.
The reason for this is most people know what I'm talking about when I say Linux,
and the difference between the two are so negligible that most of the time
they don't need to know exactly what I run.
Take care and keep up the good show mates,
and that was from Pantsbot.
Sig Flop.
Oh, no, I can't.
Yeah, I know this guy.
No, it's a girl.
It's a lady.
I know this lady.
Well, it actually says from Pantsbot at the top of it.
Yeah, it's at the bottom.
It's someone's Sig Flop.
But, yeah, it's the first one.
The first one does the Sega Genesis emulation work.
It's really cool stuff.
I'm going to interview him or her.
It's a her.
She just did an HPR episode.
It was pretty.
Yeah.
The demos didn't work best, yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, well, just a couple of things out of that.
One was, yeah, that picture.
One thing I did learn was bloody BSD,
bloody BSD.
This is why I was going everywhere.
But definitely, yeah, I think I've mentioned in that episode that
not hanging around in that BSD community over the top of them,
sure, whether people ran on laptops.
But I did check out the forums.
It's pretty obvious to hear it does.
I hate to play for run on laptops.
I mean, so much of computing these days just seems to be laptops.
You know, I mean, so many people have laptops.
I would have been surprised to hear that BSD people didn't use laptops.
I just was talking right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like I said, I didn't know really anything about it.
Okay, now the next one.
This is pretty long.
There will just read every other word.
Nah.
I think it's worth listening to it all.
Right, I think.
Hi guys.
So super cow power.
Then let me say.
Moo.
I really enjoyed the segment on BSD and wanted to mention a few thoughts.
Colonel Holy Wars.
People can get emotional about this sort of stuff.
But a good, good searching for BSD Linux comparisons usually gets you the latest statements.
Statements that one or the other are so many years behind the other.
Are not worthy of serious attention.
Blotterhood, currently, the BSDs are head-in areas of FMP and resolving multiple domains
to one or four in web-serving.
I also listened to this short cast and they said I think in their latest that the only serious distribution
for dedicated web servers are Debian, Rail, CNOS, FreeBSD and OpenBSD.
I kind of see why.
Web servers are like sitting duck on the web.
I kind of take it to these guys are authorities.
Otherwise, licensing is always an issue.
BSD has seen a recently new surge as many micro-controlled base devices went multi-core.
And since they favor the BSD license, there has been a surge in embedded device
getting kernel upgrades.
Of course, the last two items are not really appropriate to discussion of desktop use.
For a switch, the user needs a killer feature to lure him away from whatever he's doing now.
For instance, I've been getting the bad case of file system MBA over BSD ZF, which features snapshotting.
I wanted that feature, but fortunately I found Linux alternative in NIL FS2.
So I did not have to move.
The only other reason I keep an interest in BSD is that I think like this.
I use Linux.
A Unix worker like.
Why not using Unixin?
So I always look at the other guys lawn on this one.
And hey, you know what?
The grass isn't always greener over there.
Someone talked about compatibility layers and said you did not know how they work.
Now, it's basically a translation of table and memory mapping.
Linux systems cause to the corresponding Unix system calls.
That's gobbledygookdomy.
You know, my dear, it's gobbledygookdomy2.
But I have a little experience running a 32-bit application on AMD 64-demon,
which is a 30-bit compatibility layer.
In this case, the program I wanted was Composer, a non-KDE website authoring program.
And it was only available as a source and a 32-bit deb file.
I couldn't compile it, so I set it up in a 32-bit petition.
Then I copied the binary into the user bin on my 64-bit and kicked it over.
And it worked fine.
Actually, that, and an accelerated kernel module for Faberous Bell Yards.
And that's the gore gave us FFMPG.
Quemu Virtual Machines software.
Can fence me that for me running my 64-bit system as a 30-bit system
as the right thing and that again as for me?
Lastly, the negative release of Debian Squares will feature a kernel choice
between Linux and free BSD kernels.
That's going to be historic, a distro that lets you choose.
Thanks for reading.
I love to show.
Keep it up.
I know.
I know right long-winded so it's cool if you need to chop things up a bit
if you go over this in your show.
And that was from DeepGeek.
Thank you.
Yeah, you were right.
And just a matter of interest.
DeepGeek does the talk Geek to me podcast.
An almond podcast.
Yeah, I actually listened to the one on nuclear power stations this morning.
Well, that's a tough course.
So yeah, thanks for that.
A couple of interesting things I thought out of that is the one that Debian is going to give you
a choice between the BSD kernel and the Linux kernel.
Yeah, I think it's already in my guess
because I'm running Squeeze Flash tid because I remember seeing something about that somewhere
when I was doing some kind of upgrade.
It was some kind of incursive menu I think it was asking me
between about that.
I kind of glossed over it,
but I think I saw something about that.
Yeah.
Or I could have imagined it just as easily.
Oh, I don't know.
Okay, Lindsey, you'd know more about that sort of stuff.
Maybe you don't.
You need to sleep or you're angry at you.
You might fall asleep.
Or you've dropped off again.
Let's see if you're sure.
Anyway, yeah, thanks for that one.
So the five things sounds pretty cool too.
I wish I don't know how he got support for that file system in his current distra.
That's what I'm interested in finding out.
Is that the new leftist too?
Yeah, I'd never heard of that at all.
I didn't see that when I was installing Debian.
I didn't see that as a choice or anything.
I don't know where he's getting that,
but it sounds pretty cool.
Yeah, so there you go.
It's not any Linux listeners we have.
Well, maybe this is the two listeners.
The other bloke that's talking about.
He meant to be a state listener.
Yeah.
Well, maybe he just doesn't know what he's talking about.
Probably that too.
Well, after all, he does follow me through a sort of Twitter.
So that sort of says how intelligent the bloke is.
Or a five million Twitter.
Yeah, but anyway.
Is it just my new client?
I think so.
No, I'm still here.
I think I've used BSD,
so I didn't really want to comment on any of this stuff.
Yeah.
Well, I'd like to at least say you know what I'm talking about.
Not that this has anything to do with BSD per se,
but I did buy the BSD magazine that I think Monster B and I were talking about the other week.
And I was looking at the free BSD install article.
And the person who wrote the article, you know obviously,
when you're doing these kinds of articles,
you install it in a virtual machine, right?
So you can take screenshots and stuff of the installation.
But the virtual machine, you know, took screenshots
and he included like the window border on the virtual machine.
And it was very obviously an OS 10 box
that he was installing something on.
And I mean, it just kind of got to me,
because, and again, this isn't the story, I guess.
But, you know, I mean, you can't even use your own OS,
and I know it's going to stay on free BSD, blah, blah, blah, blah,
but that's not the same.
But, you know, I mean, he couldn't even use free BSD, really,
to write an article about free BSD.
It was just, it annoyed me greatly.
Well, yeah, I must admit that I think the last episode,
I said I didn't think I'd bother installing BSD,
but I've actually decided last couple weeks
that I'm going to give it a go.
You know, I keep wanting to try it.
And I just, I, for whatever reason,
the computer I have done too.
I've tried, I really have.
I've tried with free and PC BSD.
The only one I've had any luck with ever is Dragonfly BSD,
which, you know, that's what I should install on my,
on the external car.
It's a lot of my triple EDG, actually.
That might be what I do.
Yeah, I don't know.
I put it on the laptop,
but I'll put it on one of the spare desktops
so you lay it around.
Just have a look at it.
Yeah, Dragonfly is really fun.
And I guess Monster B said that free BSD was pretty nice.
Yeah, I think it's worth trying out.
The licensing thing is,
it's my biggest issue, I guess.
Yeah, I still have that thing as well.
When did you install it?
Yeah.
I'm sorry, go ahead, Pierre.
No, no, I'm just, you know,
I was just going to ask,
how to, what about what,
what he did like about license control.
Well, you know, it can be summed up with this.
I don't think that many people realize
just how important GPL is
and how, if the GPL didn't exist,
we wouldn't have, really,
I don't believe we would have Linux as it is today at all.
Because if it was less into the hands of the corporation and stuff,
they wouldn't be contributing back code.
They wouldn't give it back to us.
And so if we all,
if we just have the BSD license out there,
we just wouldn't be using, you know,
Unix, like we do today.
And that's just that.
Yeah, that's sort of like,
Dave Keith sort of mentioned
anything that is why it's being used now
in a lot of these devices now,
because they like the licensing agreement,
where they can use the BSD kernel
and then don't have to give anything back to the community,
I think.
It's that, more or less what Apple did, isn't it?
Yeah, exactly.
That is exactly what they told us.
Yeah, they don't want to use GPL code
because they know that means they have to give back to it.
And they don't want to have to do that.
I don't know if that's a purely logistical thing.
Maybe they just don't want to have to deal with the community,
you know, contributing code and stuff.
I don't know.
Or maybe they don't want their social responsibility
of giving code back,
or maybe it's just pure and all outgreet
that they just don't want to share the code.
I really don't know.
But I do know, first hand,
from reliable sources,
that they do not like the GPL.
And, you know,
and that's just how companies are.
That's how businesses start.
So, if Linux had to be done by VSD,
it would be out there,
but we wouldn't have a code.
And we wouldn't have the basis of developers
improving it every day, like we do.
And so, that's the one that I want to support.
You know, that's the one that gave me Linux, basically.
So, that's the one I want to stay with.
That license.
That's fit enough.
What were you going to say, 330?
He actually said everything I would have said.
So, I'm just going to second that and go on.
Wow, I spoke on licensing,
such that 330 didn't have anything to add.
I'm really getting better at this.
I know we're a good boy that checks in the mail.
Here's what surprises me.
Now, like with Tivo,
why didn't they go with BSD instead of Linux?
Then they could have just closed their system.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, a good question.
Is it because Linux is easier to work with?
There's more developers.
It's more flexible.
I mean, there has to be a reason.
I think there's better drivers and hardware support.
That's probably what it is, yeah.
Yeah.
And the Tivo is just like a peak freebox, isn't it?
Yeah, I'm not sure what the specs are, but they are pretty low.
Yeah, I've never really had one.
So, you don't really need that much.
Yeah.
If it cuts them built,
kernel running,
you know, just the drivers it needs and everything,
I mean, it,
it held the original Xboxes of Pentium 3.
And it was pretty cool.
Wow.
It's a Pentium 3, really?
Yeah.
Well, that was a long time ago, though.
The original Xbox.
Oh, okay.
NASA still uses Pentium 1 computers,
even on the internet.
I'm not surprised.
I'm not surprised at all.
Well, it's because they...
Yeah, and it depends what they do with them.
I know, exactly.
Well, no, it's not.
They should critical stuff.
They, they know the Pentium 1 architecture inside now.
Yeah.
I mean, they know every single call,
I mean, most of the stuff's written in assembly language.
Yeah, but see, that's the practical way of doing computing.
And that's what Linux kind of...
I mean, not the...
NASA's listening to Linux,
but I mean, the users of Linux do the same thing.
We use computers until they absolutely get...
I mean, they, they have to like melt
before one of us will stop using a computer.
But it's a consumer market that keeps saying,
no, you gotta get this new chip.
You gotta get this new,
new motherboard and stuff like that.
I mean, big deal.
Most, most real computer users know that old computers
are really quite useful still.
Yep.
I just rebuilt my laptop that's a
Selleron M1.5 data herds
and 768 mega RAM.
Yeah, exactly.
It was all because...
It was actually my mom had a laptop exactly like mine
and the half the chip melted.
Wow.
Is she set it on blankets all the time?
Oh, yeah.
It's just...
All the thermal paste melted off,
it's like just boiled off,
and it burns the shit out of the chip.
So when for me?
And I still use her old laptop
as a battery charging station.
Alright, should we get into the topics?
We sure should.
I'm gonna kick it off with mine first,
because it's really short.
How many of you guys are on Twitter?
Other of the day or two ago,
we've been doing this for a few numbers.
But yes, I am.
Yeah, I am.
Never will I know.
Well, I found a neat little program.
It's called TIRCD.
It's a little mini-IRC Damon
that you install on your computer,
your workstation, our server, whatever.
You fire it up,
and then you can connect to it with any IRC client.
And you can Twitter right from IRC.
I thought that was pretty cool.
That is cool.
Yeah, it's like I follow like,
I don't know, 300 people,
and I have 300 followers.
And it shows up just like a normal IRC channel.
Just list all the people that's in the room,
and you just chat to them just like normal.
And you don't have that 140 character limit.
So if you go over, say type 200 words,
or 200 characters,
and when you send it or hit enter,
it automatically splits it up for you
when it hits Twitter.
So it's just multiple messages.
Did you figure out how to post to a single person doing that?
Because I know you were trying it out on me,
and you ended up just doing a standard Twitter notern outside.
No, I haven't.
Actually, I used it for like an hour after I talked to you,
and I haven't fired it back up.
Because I'm really not into Twitter.
But I just thought it was neat to be able to connect to it like that.
No, I think it's definitely cool.
There's a few little works that may need to be worked on.
Yeah, the first one make it run on for Identica.
Yeah, that would be cool.
That was my next question.
So it doesn't post to Identica.
No, this one here is just for Twitter.
The T stands for Twitter.
It's T.
I thought like weren't there things that would like send your tweet out to both,
like Identica and Twitter?
Or is that along the services like that?
Okay, but those are two separate protocols nevertheless.
Yeah, they're similar, but different.
Okay.
And the Twitter server gets beat off or something.
Is that what I heard?
Yeah, it did.
It and Facebook, that's pretty cool.
Yeah, apparently it's a single blogger.
They were trying to wipe it off the face of the Earth.
That's like overkill, isn't it?
Yeah, but that's the story that I heard.
It was all meant to be picking one guy.
How much band did you get now?
So you didn't get all that spam on Twitter?
Or birds follow on you?
With, yeah, I'm so horny, please look at what I could pick now
with the random link, which probably is Trojan Ladas.
Yeah, if you follow those links, they go nowhere.
They're just getting porn sites, don't they?
Probably.
I thought on Twitter you had to,
but you don't have to accept people.
No, I can't get a name out of that too.
Well, say they can follow you, but you don't have to follow them.
Yeah, but you always get a name out of telling you that they're a follow-up.
Oh, okay.
Thank you.
Excuse me, I'll follow you.
And then that looks like a real person to you.
You believe that someone named Sexy Susie is going to be following you on Twitter?
Yeah, that's ridiculous.
Take your all your Linux to meet.
Yeah, but I thought it was Slazy Susie Chista.
I'm following you.
But you get hate for those people.
You're not saving up the roses.
Yeah.
420.
I mean, that's a big 10 or 420, good buddy.
Well, that's all I have to say on that one.
Club 2, you want to go next?
Sure.
I don't know if anyone's heard, but 4.3.
Is that the KDE 4.3, mean music or something?
KDE 4.3 is out.
It has been released as of, I don't know, a couple of days ago.
6, so it's 7, I think.
Or the 8, I don't know.
What day it is, you know.
Yeah, that's awesome.
It is art.
It's just so pretty.
Well, one of the biggest new features is a bubble blast void.
Besides, we'll monitor your system.
It's called the bubble monitor.
And it rocks.
But that's not what you're talking about.
You've got to pause to allow you this tough.
Yeah.
Now, it's got a couple of different improvements.
I mean, a lot of people still to this day come up to me and say,
well, it'll come up to me.
But when I'm talking to them at meetings or whatever,
love meetings or 2600 meetings, they'll say, you know,
oh, 4 is no good.
It doesn't have all the features of 3.5.
And I mean, I'm pretty sure that by the time they kill 3.5
off for good, 4 is going to have everything.
Because the change log of key 4.3 just has a lot of
a little thing that 3.5 would have had, like the,
some of the, what do they call the tree view, you know,
for, for like the system setting window and stuff like that.
You know, to give it that kind of 3.5 feel where a lot of
the things were in those little tree views.
There's more iOS layers now so that you can view things like
Eurocon in your file manager, just like you can, you know,
FTP or your applications folder or just, you know, whatever.
There's the ability to have different desktop pictures on the
background on each different desktop now.
I think I haven't tried that, but that's what they say.
Yeah, just lots of little cool things.
Yeah, nice to meet.
I installed it on art.
I've been fine with it.
And it is pretty impressive.
I mean, I still don't think I'll be going back from
Fluxbox just yet.
But see, those are two different beasts entirely.
You know, like QTE is a desktop environment.
Fluxbox doesn't even make that claim.
They say they're a window manager.
Yeah, that's a few different there.
And what Cate has to offer me, I just, I don't personally need.
Exactly.
But that's the thing.
Interestingly enough, I don't think I actually need it either,
but I don't know.
I'm having fun playing around with QTE right now.
It is nice and shiny.
And it's just an exciting thing to follow because it really is
developing, you know, it's just such an active project right now.
I imagine once they hit some kind of stable peak,
I'll probably kind of like stop needing to look at it all the time.
And go back to like enlightenment or Fluxbox or something.
But right now, I'm just fascinated at seeing a project go from, you know,
when I started with it, it was that sport.
Well, when I started with it, it was 3.5.9 or whatever.
So you get to see four, and then you get to see just how great it becomes, you know,
0.3 releases later.
It's pretty cool.
Thank you.
I've mentioned it.
I hadn't played with compes since compes and barrel.
I've made it or whatever they did.
That's been a long time.
And it's a K-Win effect, so I take it that way.
K-Win, yeah.
Yeah, whatever it is.
It really is.
It's brilliant, yeah.
Oh, it is.
Back in the day, you had that box there, you get the sphere and the cylinder.
Yeah.
I could just sit there and play with that for half an hour.
Yeah, they're really nice.
I love all the transparency.
Yeah.
And you guys are running Nvidia chips, right?
Yeah.
Now, I can do it on my laptop, but I can't run the speed or the cylinder.
I can only run the cube on the Intel chipset.
What's your laptop running?
I mean, what?
4,500.
Intel, right?
Yeah, Intel.
No, I'm sorry.
What distro?
That's on the arch.
Okay, because interestingly enough, I have two MacBooks.
And my faster MacBook has Fedora 1164 bit.
My slower MacBook has a Slackware 32 bit.
I can do all the K-Win effects on my 32-bit slower MacBook running Slackware.
Whereas I can't do really any of them very well on the Fedora install.
Nothing against Fedora, but that's just how it is.
I'm sorry.
That's interesting, isn't it?
Yeah.
It's really interesting.
And I can't really account for it, to be honest.
I have no idea what others in one Slackware and one Fedora.
Yeah, I was trying to get a sphere going on the laptop.
And then when I went and read into it, you can only run the sphere on an Nvidia Adi chipset for some reason.
I mean, couldn't do it on a Intel.
I can't remember why, but it's missing something.
Yeah, see, I just tried it again with my Fedora install, and it just logged me out of that.
Oh, it's just like, no, I'm not going to do it.
And yet on my Slackware box, it'll totally do it.
It's got Latch RAM and a floor chip processor.
Yeah.
Everyone probably knows this, but I didn't.
Because typically I run Fluxbox and my laptop just boots in the Fluxbox.
And then when I want to play with a Windows Manager, I had to get out of X.
And then I would load what a Windows Manager.
And then JLNJ went and told me that when you want to play around with, like I was playing around with that, anti-Cade Deluxe,
that JLNJ found, and I'm up around awesome there for a while,
a simple thing to do, and I'm probably preaching to the choir,
just go into one open up terminal, you know, 12-volt F2.
Simply type start X, then forward slash use, the forward slash bin,
then when I want to play with Cade E, it's simply start Cade E,
space, dash, dash, colon, one.
And that just opens up a whole new accession on TTY 8.
And then I can be in and out of Cade E, and back in the Fluxbox, you know, in seconds.
And like I said, I'm probably everyone probably knows that,
but for Blake who didn't know that, like me, you had to keep booting out of your system
when you wanted to have a look at that different Windows Manager, TTY.
So the year's management, yeah.
What if you have a .x in it, RST file, where you define what start X info?
Well, that's how I automatically boot into Fluxbox in that .x in it trend,
and automatically run that exact start.
Fluxbox?
Okay, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
And that's how I get into Fluxbox, just by typing start X at booting the Fluxbox.
So now that's fine, Class 2.
Yeah, just have to make sure you run start X, then path to your desktop you want to run.
Okay, which is use of bin by the start Cade E, or any decode, deluxe, or even-game name session,
whatever your type.
And just remember, dash dash colon 1.
And that starts it on a different accession, too easy.
Very fast, yeah.
Yeah.
You can leave off the path to the window manager.
If you happen to have your X in RST specifying the right one, it's even easier.
But I mean, there's just, I mean, you can never ever do something like that in Windows.
Oh, yeah.
Fine with Linux now for what, six years.
And admittedly, you know, it's only a hobby for me, but I just learn and learn and learn.
And all these things are just fascinating to me to be able to do something like that.
And now I found myself running Cade E, a whole lot more, because I have it there just when I want to go over and have it lit.
Well, you're frustrated, I go over and I spin the cube and it just relaxes me so much.
That's beautiful, Peter.
Thank you.
Right.
Yeah.
My wife loves it because I don't take it out of her any.
How many spin the cube?
Okay.
I can see some future under management that.
Okay.
Everyone says nothing in front of their computer.
Get ready to spin the cube.
It worked.
You can get the bubbles happening.
I'm telling you.
You see, we can get away with all the presents, but we need to make everyone spin the cube.
Now, I tell you now, back when they did the two-pound camera, and this was going back a lot of years,
the whole interior was painted pink, would you believe?
And I understand they do that to prisons, too, because that is a soothing color.
And they pay a lot of people a lot of money to go around and work all this sort of stuff out.
So we may well see bubbles on the ball soon.
You know what else I like about Cade E?
I like pressing that little key button, and I can drag eight kinds off of it.
Yes.
That's awesome.
I know.
I like that.
I like that.
But you can do that.
I'm going to own two, can't you?
I don't think you can.
Okay.
But you know what?
This is cool, Cade.
I put the trash can on the desktop.
And you can enlarge it as big as you want, because everything is SGG graphics.
Yeah, yeah.
So everything is perfect.
No matter what the size is.
Yeah, yeah, better.
I know that sounds stupid, but I like it.
How you can just resize everything, and everything looks good.
Yeah.
I mean, that's just, to me, that's two different things.
That's number one future-proofing your icon, you know, because I mean,
I remember when icons used to be like, I don't know, 48 by 48.
And if you ever wanted it bigger than that, it was going to pixelate.
But now it's, you know, forever.
You can just make it as large as you needed to go.
And then number two, it just shows the flexibility, you know?
I mean, anytime you can give your user complete control over something.
I mean, that's what Linux and free software is all about,
just putting the user in control.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah, I'm glad they decided to do this good design from the start,
because now when they're working on the netbook part of KDE, you know,
they don't have to do as much, because they just resize the icon.
Yeah.
Yeah, they did a fantastic job.
Anything else caught you on the KDE?
Oh, I forgot, it was still my story.
Yeah, that's it, really?
Yeah, I mean, 4.3, I don't know.
Would you guys say, well, you guys, I guess you weren't really running 4.2 all that much.
I'd say it was fairly minor changes, but, you know,
it's just a nice little solid update of KDE.
Well, I'm running it on Debian Squeeze right now,
and there's an update up a couple days ago, or actually yesterday.
And they updated the KDM login manager, which is beautiful anyways,
but it matches your desktop.
So when you log in, it like fades out.
It looks like, yeah, yeah, that's so cool.
That's really nice.
As that's fading out, your toolbar at the bottom's coming, you know,
phasing it.
Yeah, yeah, that was really...
Sorry, Sushi's done that forever.
Yeah, but it was clunky when it did it.
Robby's.
It was a 50-50 chance if you were going to actually be able to use your computer or not,
with Sushi.
Yes.
Are you written in motto, Peter?
No, I don't know.
I got no idea about that sort of stuff on Fred.
I tell you what I do know.
Sushi does it, yes, because they just posted a comment on HBR,
so there you go.
All right, gee, man.
You want to go next?
Sure.
First off, I got a link to a book written by a guy called Scott Check-On, I guess.
And it's called ProGit.
And if Git is a mystery to you, you might want to check this out.
It starts out with the basics, and you go through all the things that are, you know,
setting it up and pulling Git branches.
And it's just a great resource, especially if you intend on doing a little project,
you know, similar to the one posted in the Linux Grants forum,
it would help to know about version control.
Now, Peter was mentioning about running multiple X sessions, switching VT's virtual terminals.
I would guess that not a lot of people know about Zephyr.
And Zephyr is, there used to be a tool called X-Nest that would allow you to run X clients inside of a window.
Zephyr is like the next step up from that X-Nest kind of fill by the wayside,
and they don't have modern extensions like composite and damage, you know, render support
that lets you, that lets the system know what's going on in X.
I got a screenshot here, so we know what, what I'm talking about.
Zephyr is called Zephyr.
Right.
When you launch this, it's going to be a capital X.
I did a basic example, just very minimal options,
but there's a ton of options that you can get when you run Zephyr, dash dash held,
and I did a minimal one here.
You can safely ignore the redirect.
I was just trying to get rid of the output, because it's going to throw a bunch of errors.
But as you can see, I'm running XFCE in a window on top of the awesome window manager.
And you know, you don't have to switch BTs.
You can do testing of window managers, you know, programs that crash,
they can take down Zephyr, but they won't take down the other X server.
Okay, it's pretty cool.
Say, do you take a hit on performance when you do this?
No, yeah, of course.
You always take a hit when you're running multiple window managers,
especially if you fire up KD in a window.
And put a heap of bubbles on that.
Why is your assistant damn awesome?
I bet it's worth it.
There's all kinds of options for, you know,
terminating it when the client dies or removing the controller restrictions,
so you can forward X.
There's lots of stuff like that.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah, it's just saying this would all be available in the actual repo, wouldn't it?
Right, yeah.
It's the X-ort people do this, so it's pretty much in all the districts.
Oh, really?
Oh, really?
So this is a Zorg project?
Right, yeah.
Oh, it is pretty cool.
Those people are prolific.
I don't know how they do it.
They do incredible work.
Let me just fire it up the bubbles.
That was neat.
Well, the bubbles.
So where would you find this effort website,
trying to search for it?
To work x.org.
Yeah, there's a four different top three projects.
Yeah.
I'll put the link in the RC.
All right, cool.
I'll put that in the show notes.
Pretty easy to set up, though.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, very easy.
You just do the install and then, you know,
you can look over the options, but, like I said, all I did in the screen shot,
I did the screen resolution and that was it.
Export the display so it knows where to send whatever you're running.
You export the display just like you're doing SSH forwarding.
And then whatever program you fire up is going to open up on that display.
That is incredible.
I mean, this is yet again another really cool example of the thing.
It's just so flexible.
I mean, think of trying to do something like that.
You can't even...
Mac users couldn't even imagine something like that.
It's just too crazy.
Well, they could because they've got an X-11 environment.
So, it's Windows users couldn't.
So, it's actually in the, um, are you out of repository for?
All right.
Found it.
What?
X or dash server dash?
Zephyr.
I know what I'll be planning with later on this afternoon.
Yeah.
Those are the kits in the Ubuntu one.
Repote as well.
And, uh, X server dash.
Zephyr.
So, yeah.
Five very male will be playing with it later as well.
You do.
You're just going to get a chance to get bored with this stuff.
Yeah.
I know.
I mean, once you've...
You might settle in to one thing.
And then, next thing, you know, you're...
You're hearing about something totally cool and different
that you can play around with.
Zephyr is in fact those as well.
So, yep.
I'll be trying that.
Anything else?
Jolency?
No.
That's all from me.
Two great picks.
And I'm going to throw one more in here.
It's a game called Blood Frontier.
All right.
Blood Frontier.
It's a first-person shooter.
So.
It's using the, uh...
It's using the Cube 2 engine.
And it's a pretty sweet game.
Just want to throw that one out real quick.
It's still on beta.
I just went to the website, which is www.prisonblebloodfrontier.com.
There's a YouTube video and it says Blood Frontier.
It's bloody fun.
Yeah.
It's pretty cool.
Only played the single players so far.
Haven't tried the multiplayer yet.
Hey, you know what?
That's what someone should organize for Ohio Linux Fest.
Like a LAN party where you could play like...
I don't know.
Be Zed Flag.
What's that?
Be Zed Flag.
What the heck is that here?
Yeah.
It.
Or, uh...
Or is this thing Blood Frontier or something like that?
Be Zed Flag must be packaged with every single Linux distribution file.
Who I can't believe you haven't heard of that.
Peter, you know I don't play games.
Yeah, I know, but it's the tank one.
Does it have catchers in it?
I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah.
But talking about games,
I fired up that bloody conumbra.
Yeah, lah.
Nighted about 12-30 when I was waiting for Juden.
The house was all quiet and that and that.
Marie was dark.
And I was walking around, I turned around,
and wasn't even bloody dogs jump up in there.
And scared the majority there to be fair income.
And honestly, I had to turn it off and go back out in the lamp.
Yeah.
It's a good guy.
Anyone who didn't get it,
doesn't get it.
It really is brilliant.
Don't let your kids watch your fight,
because they won't sleep.
They'll be in your bed sleeping with you.
You know what really makes these games more enjoyable?
It's wearing a headset when you play.
It's just amazing all the sounds that you pick up.
To me, I feel like I'm more into the game.
More immersive, definitely, yeah.
Yeah, and do it late at night.
All the lights off, headphones on.
Ah, it just makes the hair stand up on the back of your neck.
It was like I was like 12 again.
I don't want to tell you that, I was scared.
Cool, and which game is that?
That's that one that you got for $5 or whatever?
Yeah, phenomenal.
Cool.
Yeah, cool.
Yeah, it really is.
I haven't played a game in years,
but the game play is really good.
I like it.
I did look at it, but the demo didn't run on my machine.
Yeah.
My graphics card is that crap.
It can't run.
And I'm breathed.
Yeah, I imagine it probably needs a pretty good system to run.
What do you got for a soak?
I've got one that...
Well, bit of background first.
Brief bit.
Are those your life stories?
No, I was afraid we'd read it.
I'm quite picky on a lot of the RSS feed reads.
I've tried literally every single feed reader that they have on Linux.
And for various reasons, I don't like a lot of them.
Sometimes, you read a story and they have a link to something else.
I want a feed reader that will...
You don't need to load another program to look at that link.
And there's a few little things.
Anyway, so generally, I like Google Reader.
It's up there.
It's in my browser, so I don't need to kick open a browser to look at any links.
But then I have 330 is very anti-google.
And I installed tiny, tiny RSS, which is that TT-RSS.org.
And it's very similar looking to Google Reader, basically.
It handles keyboard shortcuts or manner of things.
Sorry, is this a separate GUI application or is this something in the browser?
Well, I can't see anything like that.
You install it on a server somewhere.
Oh, OK.
You can go in it locally.
Oh, I know.
OK, I get it.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
And then from there, in fact, there are some implementations of this,
which anyone can connect to.
If you go to the actual website, they have, you know,
but what if I don't have a server and they're like, just go here and you can find that.
And I'm just posting the link into IRC.
I said, TT-RSS.org, and it's very easy to install.
Just unpack it, create database for it somewhere,
load up the schema they've got to populate the database with empty fields as required.
And there you go.
And it looks pretty cool.
Basically, I mean, I've been playing around with it today.
And, you know, there's a bunch of different settings.
There's a few things a little odd.
I had an issue where I used to lose a bar on it.
Because that saves me the cookie, and I couldn't undo it.
So I had to delete the cookies and log back in and fix it.
But it's, you know, it's a replacement for something like Google Reader,
where, you know, it's out on the cloud or however you want to put it.
But you run it on your own little server.
So that's pretty cool.
I think it's cool.
And if you're in there, anyone's worried about Google Reader, you know,
Google tracking everything you have, you can use that.
I've tried a bunch of other desktop-based RSS feed readers.
And just, I didn't like, because a lot of them, you know,
they were then spawned on Firefox if you clicked on any of the links in the stories.
And that just personally, why do I need to load something else up?
Look at it.
So tiny, tiny RSS seems to be a cool thing.
Oh, it's, of course, it's all a GPL.
How's all GPLs?
Is it a multi-user or just single-user?
You can do both.
There's an option in the config file for single-user multi-user.
Multi-user requires you to look in, single-user doesn't.
So they say if you're going to do single-user on server, set up some other parts of it or something on it.
Well, it's pretty cool.
How would you compare it, like setting it up?
Would it be like a WordPress or easier?
I mean, those are basically easier.
There's less steps to go through, I think.
You download the, under the package, you know, on your server.
You, as said, you create the database.
And then, from that, you go into, you know, PHP.
I'm in, I am in, like, PHP.
Whichever one of this.
What, a camera?
What is called now?
But that's something similar to that.
To edit the SQL, the SQL database.
And you just load the schema in.
And then that bits fix.
Then, for you, you run zip the files.
You edit the config file to set up a few little things I want.
Which is very detailed.
You rename the config file.
And then you just go in login.
You can then, if you've got multi-user set up, you have to login with the default.
I think it's a login of admin and password password.
If it's single-user, it's just there, incidentally, already for you.
But you can set up, I mean, you can sort it by date.
And show different amounts on the screen.
And pretty much everything that says Google does.
You can even do, I think, it's end for the next.
Or a story, P for the previous one.
And then F. And then another letter for different speed.
Come on, so I think it's F8 out of feeding.
And a bunch of little stuff.
So it's looking cool, basically.
Yeah, that is pretty cool.
It says supports feeding closures.
And it says podcast.
Which pitware?
It says in features overview on the website.
Yeah, it should say a podcast is just an RSS feed.
That's the means that she plays.
Yeah, I'm not sure.
There's none of the light theory that comes in GNOME.
You can play podcasts right from there.
That's pretty cool. I like it.
I like the looks of it.
I mean, still, you know, they're still working on some things.
They haven't got all of the showing the HTML correctly for some bits.
And they're actually saying there's a few more things that don't appear up.
Like they should do.
Have you tried it with different browsers, see if it made a difference?
Oh, yeah.
No, I've just been using Firefox at the moment.
I mean, if you guys want, let's set up on my server.
I can give you some details on that.
And let you guys log in and see what you think.
Yeah, we can do that after the show.
There's also a demo on the site.
Yeah, when I tried that, it wasn't working.
I just used it. It worked out fine.
Oh.
Yeah, they do have a demo on the website.
They say they've logged a lot of stuff down on it.
I mean, they say they support.
There's either sweet Firefox, Camino, and other Gecko-driven tools.
Testnal Firefox 1.5.2.
Safari.
And probably other WebKit derivatives.
Conqueror, and other K-HTM derivatives.
And Internet Explorer 7 or Vista mostly works.
And Opera has some issues.
Well, that's a good find.
Anything else in this one?
No, unless anyone else has anything to say.
No one.
Nobody.
And we're going to move on to estimates.
Why?
Yeah, everybody is moving along on the cutting edge here.
And I keep moving further and further away from the cutting edge.
Run across something I've seen before and used before.
But it kind of kind of come back and impressed upon me just how slick it was.
And that's Rock Spiler.
Oh, man.
In fact, the whole...
Yeah, I've used it before in...
Oh, well, damn small Linux had it.
There's a link to the site.
I just put in the forum.
But no, it's amazing how fast it is.
I've got a lot of old equipment around here.
I've kind of found a sweet spot in the kernel that all my old equipment seems to be working at.
It kind of caught up to...
caught up to all of it and hasn't surpassed it yet.
And that's 2.6.26.
And so I'm kind of rolled back into things like Winnie and...
and into Fluxbox and the Rock Spiler.
And I was going to try the whole Rock's desktop today.
But Chris Lenny install and then a CD drive that died in the middle of reinstalling.
I didn't get it there.
Now, what...
No, it's...
What's the Rock's desktop then?
Well, that's what I've seen before and didn't really know what it was.
And I got to playing with the Rocks on anti-X.
Anti-X has all the Rock stuff available on it.
Whether you turn it on or not, that's something else.
But the Rock's desktop...
It treats all your programs as files.
And they're just all available in the Rock's Filer.
But the way anti-X is used when I'm running Fluxbox on it,
it's still using the Rock's Filer for the file manager.
But what got me looking at it was that thing works fast.
And this is on old antique equipment.
And that is fast.
It pops up faster than any of the newer computers I've got with heavier weight distributions on them.
Yeah, you know, what I use it for a lot is when I'm SSH-ing into my friends OS X boxes,
you know, given like support or whatever, I always install Rock's Filer on there.
Because that way I can do SSH with X forwarding.
And I'll get Rock's Filer's up on my screen so fast,
almost like I'm not even SSH-ing.
It's just really fast.
Nice.
Yeah, it's amazing how fast it is.
They don't have any BS in it.
It's just all muscle.
But I didn't get to explore it as far as I wanted to go today.
But there's always tomorrow.
So how long has it been around?
And that's all I've got.
It does.
It's been around forever.
How much did I get?
It's been around.
Well, yeah, I think we've told you that before, Peter.
Yeah, probably, yeah.
I didn't know that they had a whole desktop environment.
I mean, I've used Rock's Filer ever since I discovered what unit was.
It was like one of the first things that I could get to compile from source.
But I didn't realize I had a whole environment going for them.
I like it.
It looks neat.
And try it.
Did you see that?
Well, I'll show it to you.
Which one's right?
It looks like a triple E.
I know, yeah, right?
That's good.
That's pretty cool.
The name Rock's comes from Risco S on X.
Oh, OK.
And that's where it was inspired by the Risco S.
Oh, maybe that's why I could...
Wait, what does Risco S?
I'll tell you.
Risco S for a computer operating system, which was originally developed by a corn computer
limit in Cambridge in England.
There you go, Zach.
And it was originally for the ARM based processes.
It was released in 1988.
Cool.
I'm loving it.
I really like this.
This is really cool.
Is that why?
I'm actually going to try this tonight for sure.
I'm going to try to run it on the Zephy.
You know, I do that.
Charlie, is that sparking?
Do that kind of?
Yep.
Too cool.
How good is this?
You probably don't know this much performance yet, either.
Yeah, not on Rock.
I'm telling you, that thing is just fast.
It's the fastest thing I've...
It rocks.
Yeah, it really does.
Rock.
And it's got bubbles on the desktop as icons.
You just need to prove crap.
I'm not going to try anymore.
I don't want any...
Have anything to do with it anymore?
Yeah, but the bubbles are out of your beloved KDE.
Oh, yeah.
You can be loving the bubbles.
I love the bubbles.
Oh, I forgot.
I love the bubbles.
Well, we've been in the show.
We got too much to do.
Yeah, really, I know.
Well, 330 hasn't gone yet.
Yeah, we're saving him for last.
He's putting on his costume right now, getting ready.
You're ready, 330?
Yeah, I guess so.
This is going to be the less technical aspect of the show.
Instead of doing technical things, I sat down in red, which is odd for me.
I usually don't have the attention span for it, but I've read Cory Doctorow's little brother now.
I wanted to do a little talking about it and some of the interesting stuff he did around the book.
The idea of the book is some kids living in San Francisco are picked up by the Department of Homeland Security after a terrorist attack where the Golden Gate Bridge is blown up.
They're treated the way that Guantanamo detainees were in the real war on terror.
They make jokes about that term itself, too.
It's really cool because it chronicles just some normal hacker kids.
They're not really doing anything wrong, but they're messing with the stuff that exists.
One of the things is their school employee is a thing that keeps track of people's gate, you know, how they walk.
So a bunch of the kids start putting rocks in their shoes, so they walk different.
So then when they're ditching school, you can't tell who walked out the door because it didn't match anything.
One of the interesting things is all of the technology in here is either already being used or is totally plausible.
Before I looked it up, I would have said R working on it, but have worked on it.
There's a Linuxribution in it called Paranoid Linux, which the kids all load onto their school laptop because the school has spyware and all kinds of stuff on the computer.
So you can't actually use it for anything useful.
But that seems to have closed up shop, because there was actually somebody working on one.
And if you go to Instructables.com, there's a member that is actually a character from the book.
His name's Winston. It's W1N5P0N.
It's supposed to be like a 15-year-old hacker kid.
He tells you how to use Tor and lie to authority figures and how to find pinhole cameras and how to lock or kill RFID chips.
It's actually a really, really good book.
Anyone that liked 1984 would like this because this is literally what somebody would do if 1984 actually happened.
And I think that anyone that comes across the kids in their lives between the ages of 10 and 25 should give them a copy of this book.
And get it free online. It's free of common license.
Why is Winston using Gmail, if he's so paranoid?
There's an article on this, Instructables, how to encrypt your Gmail email.
I think people had been using it and everybody already knows your friends already know your Gmail address.
So if you might as well secure what you have.
Yeah.
You want to hide something, put it in plain sight.
Yeah.
One of the cool things they do in the book is take...
The idea is that the next Microsoft Xbox will be given away for free because they make all their money off of licensing the SEP.
So all these kids have these free little micro computers sitting around and they all hook them up to their own little hack together internet.
All like super encrypted and awesome and stuff.
It's really cool.
I think if anyone remotely interested to give a read.
And if you don't want to actually read it, the publishing company actually allowed him to do the audiobook under a creative common license.
So you can download that for 20 bucks.
That's pretty cool.
You can find all the stuff about the book at craphound.com slash little brother.
Does this guy ever go to an Ex-Pest of Olsen Talk?
Or does he just a writer?
Oh no. He or he used to work for the EFS.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, so he's done a lot of...
A lot of kind of crap they talk about in this book.
And he ran Open Cola.
He had a company that gave out a...
Yeah.
Yeah, they gave it up to try and get people to understand what Open Source was.
Yeah, he ran that company during the .com boom and bust.
Okay, interesting.
I've heard him on some of Leo's shows.
He gets on there sometimes.
Oh, okay.
I'm not interested in him anymore.
The reason he ends up on Leo's shows is because he is also a blogger for Boyne Boyne.
No excuse.
No excuse.
That's right.
So are we cutting John O'Off also?
Oh, I cut him off long ago.
Yeah, he's not welcomed here.
Oh, I forgot we were on tip radio.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, he's welcomed.
He's welcomed here.
Linux cranks, I don't know.
Yeah.
This really is a good book.
And this is probably the last book in a decade that I actually finished.
Because I usually read just enough to be able to pass whatever thing has to do with class.
How many pages?
I'm not sure because I read the text file.
And I think I opened it up and Abby will admit that it was 250 or so.
That's a big book.
Yeah, and it's written for young adults.
So it's not, you know, it's in like really, really big fonts with really simple words.
No, no.
It's written for, you know, for like a 12 to 15 year old kid.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
So there's a, there's a, like a Romantic sub-slot in it.
And stuff like that.
But how, what grade are these kids supposed to be in?
What is the title?
The kids, I think are in high school.
So there may be freshmen.
Okay.
155 printed pages.
That's what I predict.
So that would be a quick read then.
It didn't take you.
It sounds like you finished it pretty much in a day.
Is that correct?
Oh, I took a while, but I was reading it on the in 800.
So I hadn't read it based issues to do with it.
And battery issues.
Yeah.
Okay.
And you've got a lot on your plate at the moment.
2330.
Trying to get back in the school, yeah.
And having to do with these way back.
What?
What's Peter 15 chuckling about?
Peter 16.
Peter 64.
He first named him 15 years old with a chapter in one book.
Peter's giving me shit.
So 330 must have said 15 times the day in the chat that he had so much on his plate.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
About the tap manager at thing and stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I just want to know what an unemployed bike does at the chat.
Beasy.
Cool.
That really is a lot of worth dealing with the same thing, to be honest.
That is the same thing you do while you're sitting on your motor.
Yeah.
Nothing.
But I am busy doing it.
So one of the other things that Corey had done around this book was for people that bought,
for people that downloaded it and then later decided, wow, they would have really loved to pay for it.
You could actually go and pay for a book.
And they had librarians from high schools and middle schools and stuff that were requesting copies.
So you would buy a copy and then they would link your copy up with somebody that had requested one for a school.
They would ship to that school.
So this book is actually showing up in classrooms and in school libraries.
That's cool.
Very good.
It just amazes me still that we're in like 2009 or whatever we're in.
And it's like people, the educational institutions still aren't seeming to understand the importance of computer literacy, you know.
And technology and stuff like that.
I keep expecting kids that I come across, like eight-year-olds and stuff like know everything about computers already.
And to my amazement, most of them that I've come across, which isn't many, but I mean, you know, friends with kids and stuff.
I mean, they do nothing.
I don't know what they're being taught about computers.
It's just really shocking to me.
Now, this one will teach them a little bit about computers.
A lot about questioning authority.
Perfect.
That's a little bit about creating chaos.
That's perfect.
That's what kids need to come to the year at school.
And there are even some of these projects that they put up on Instructables that I plan on doing, like building an RFID blocker and, you know.
So this is really cool stuff.
Yeah, yeah.
Anything else?
No, not unless somebody has some questions.
Anybody got it?
Everyone's each going to play with Roxy.
I have a really, I'm looking at Roxy myself.
Sorry, this wasn't technical.
The only technical thing I did this week was rebuild a dead lab.
Yeah, we know you're being busy.
We know.
I was busy saving myself over $500 by rebuilding my damn black top.
That was the one that's packed it in bloody need 12 months ago, wasn't it?
Yeah.
I remember that.
My mom left her laptop sitting on a blanket and melted half of the processor.
Like half of the actual, the little, I can't remember the word now.
The actual part that gets hot, not the silicone around it.
Yeah, it was melting off.
So I stole the, I actually replaced the keyboard because mine was dirty.
So Peter you'll be happy to know that.
And swapped out the whole lid and a bunch of the internals that had done bad.
Yeah, it was good fun.
Yeah.
So here's a tip for people if you're going to take a part of the laptop.
Check on the internet and see if the company is put up a, like a how-to guide.
Because once you get about 75 screws in and you go, why the hell doesn't this come open?
They tell you how to do it.
Yeah.
It's like IKEA style.
It's wild.
Yeah.
Now there used to be a site.
There's a couple of sites probably, but there's one that I used to go to all the time that had, yeah, like,
taking apart procedures to all kinds of computers.
It was nice.
You can often find the technical manual, not just the user manual.
But you'll find that the technical manual that the technicians do use when they pull stuff apart.
Yeah, that's what I find.
You can come in pretty handy.
And my Peter 64 fan club stickers still on there.
So that doesn't matter to me.
Oh, that was awful.
It was the worst thing I've ever seen in my life.
I wore my Peter 64 fan club teacher to be a, I had it on and happened to go to the hospital because my grandma was there.
I got 30 looks.
Oh, what?
Anybody have anything else?
I've got a quick one months to be.
I always said that I had to boot in, or now I don't have to boot into Windows anymore to do my video editing because I use CAD in live.
I'm very happy with the way it performs.
But I was actually lying because I had forgotten there was one thing I still have to use Windows for.
And the other day I went to program on how many remote which you don't do very often.
But I remembered I can't do this.
I tried to run the how many software in mine ages ago and it wouldn't work.
And I tried to install it again.
It still didn't work.
And luckily my wife's laptop still has a vista on it.
So I booted in there.
That's how it's programming.
And I was talking to scan in the RC channel.
And he pointed me to a little program called Concordance, which is a book by the name of Phil has written a little program where you can program your how many remote underlinics.
So now to be totally honest with you too, I wasn't able to get this to compile yet.
I only have it a quick play around with it.
The other night I haven't sat down.
I think I'm going right into and find out what the error message I'm getting means.
But if anyone does have a hard new remote and like me has to boot into Windows program it.
Have a look at this Concordance.
I must have been able to put it in the show notes.
And now if I get this work in, I will never have to boot to Windows ever again.
That's what you said when you were talking about editing video.
Yeah, I forgot all about it.
Because once you program a remote, it's very rare you have to touch it unless you get a new appliance or what have you.
All right.
Yeah.
So I just happened to change something in my entertainment system.
And I thought I should now go to add this.
And then I thought, oh God, I've got to go into bloody Windows to do it.
So anyway, thanks again for that.
And it's good to know.
And so these are one of those universal remote.
It's got unlimited amounts of things that will talk to that sort of thing.
Yeah.
Like this one does, I think, 15 different devices.
It's the one I used to do the X10 that I talked about in the last Fortnite episode or whatever it was.
Yeah.
So I mean, they are.
And just, they replace everything.
Instead of having my five remote sitting on the table, you just have the one.
Yeah.
That is nice.
Yeah.
I mean, you can get the really expensive one.
So they've got touch screen and everything.
Yeah.
But they run you into six or seven hundred dollars over here.
Well, not that rich, I'm afraid.
Yeah.
I think 10 bucks over here.
So I could probably get one.
Yeah. Well, you could probably buy two.
But how many is an airline for Logitech?
Oh, really?
Everyone would.
Yeah. Everyone would.
Logitech doesn't seem that bad for like drivers and things like that.
I mean, I don't know if they put forth a huge effort to get stuff over to Linux.
But I don't know.
If you get a Logitech product, well, no, that's not true.
There's a webcam.
I don't know about the webcam.
I don't know.
Some of the Logitech stuff seems to be pretty compatible with anything I plug it into, generally.
Yeah.
Well, Logitech bought Harmony.
Oh, God.
Quite a few years ago now.
Okay.
I'm not even sure if the software works on a Mac, actually.
I'm never bothered to look.
But anyway, the fact is, it doesn't work on the Linux.
But this concordance does.
And if you go to the page, you could go and check whether.
Most of the Harmony remotes are supported, but a few aren't.
But there's a thing, a list that you can just check to make sure.
All the five, 50s and all that sort of stuff.
But there's a list anyway, you can go and check.
That's very interesting.
Yeah.
That was a good font.
Yeah, I hope you get it working.
Yeah, well, I haven't had it right.
Play with it, obviously.
Playing with people.
Have one I've read.
So it can't be too much.
What's the error you're getting?
Ah, I can't remember.
I can't remember.
Because I was filming on the laptop.
Ah, okay.
Yeah.
This one I went to make it.
I can't remember.
I left a little.
I actually meant to post it.
Jalenge was offline at the time.
So I didn't bother.
Mm-hmm.
Sweet.
What do you guys want to talk about my personal coding challenge in the forum?
Yeah.
Yeah, sounds good.
Okay, post this last night.
It's a, like I said, it's called my personal coding challenge 2009.
This is a challenge to test yourself to develop an application plug-in or a script.
And really, just sign up on the forums.
It's letting's cranks slash forum.
And you just commit to a project like something you're going to do.
It could be anything.
And the deadline is that all the applications or whatever you're going to make
to test be done by November 21st.
That way we have a week to, like, look at them.
And then we'll talk about them on November 28th on TIT radio.
So how many months is that?
That's like one, two, two, two, or November?
It's about four months, right?
Yeah, it's like 15 weeks.
Not bad.
And what kind of programs are you talking about, like, anything or...
Anything.
Any size and scope.
It's really just a personal challenge for yourself.
Just like coding, basically.
Yeah.
Or even if you're a coder.
You just want to just want some competition.
To me, I need a goal to do something.
And I think this will be a way to teach myself how to code.
Yeah, it's a little bit like write a novel month or something.
It's just like this arbitrary period of time that says do this and teach you can do it.
Why would you say, once you've met someone who, you know,
always saying how much in the technology they are and that.
And then just said they didn't have the time to participate in something like this.
What would you say to them if that happens?
What would I say to them?
I would say...
Okay, I picked the rules.
I'm just going to change this subject, Peter.
Okay, the rules are.
Okay, it has to run on Linux.
BSD or OpenSlayers.
It doesn't have to be all three.
Just one or the other.
The code has to be open.
No hello worlds.
Because that's pretty lame.
No mono.
And no forks.
How can you tell people not to code in mono?
I mean, you might not agree with it.
It's my challenge if I say no mono.
That would be ridiculous.
Because if it's their personal challenge, then they might want to do it in mono.
That on my forum.
All right.
House rules.
I added some FAQs on there too.
Yeah, this is quite a recommended code better than whoever.
No one can code better than whoever.
Oh, no, that's whoever.
Okay.
Yeah, so is this challenge really fair?
I can code circles around whoever.
But wait, it's not even a challenge among...
I mean, it's a challenge to oneself, correct?
Do you have to code circles around himself?
Yeah, you're not competing against others.
It's just a personal challenge.
Yeah.
So what are we going to do?
We're going to look at all the things that people did and like make fun of them or what, like me.
Oh, if you want to.
Some people we're going to make fun of, but...
No, we're going to take a look and see what people, what they did, and I don't know.
Maybe we can learn something from it.
Yeah.
And either, I mean, probably no matter what, we're all bound to benefit a little bit from what comes out of this, because you never know.
I mean, there have been random scripts posted on the cranks form already, you know, that are really handy.
Like, you know, odd converters or scripts and porn get scripts and stuff like that.
I'm sure people use those every day.
And I like what you said here about what are the prices.
So that one is knowledge.
That's right.
Of course there is.
Yeah, I can't believe that.
Somebody wanted a prize.
That's so sad.
Someone needs a prize for this.
Knowledge should be totally enough.
I wonder if somebody's going to do a comic book reader.
Oh, wow.
That'd be really cool.
Open source, comic book reader.
So who here is going to try this?
Yeah, I'm going to try this.
Well, if you'd like to read, I'm going to be in, but I've never ever looked at coding.
Well, actually, I did something once back in Beijing a lot of years ago.
But that wouldn't count.
I'm going to give it a go.
If I don't use you, I'll have a good laugh.
No, I might.
I'm not sure I'm thinking about it yet.
I'm going to think of a good project.
Oh, yeah.
I'll just write down the way on.
It's difficult.
The channel is just going to find something good to do, you know?
Yeah.
I think you said that.
I mean, in the beginning of the forum, you said, one of the hardest bits about this whole thing is getting the idea.
You made that idea to get started.
Yeah.
Yeah, I was thinking about it because I read the forum post last night.
I was thinking about it today, and it's true.
I mean, everything you can think of that you need to get done.
You've got, like, what, four or five different options in open source?
You know, I mean, at least on the level that I'm going to be able to program right now, you know?
But that's one thing you're just doing, like, a shell script or something.
It's like a process of things that are where they need to be.
So, what we need is a program with, like, bubbles.
And then you actually, they bounce around.
And then you can raise things out of them.
Oh, right.
Actually, Jack.
You could be on to something.
And in those bubbles, we could have a to-do list.
Because we need a bloody null, a to-do list, only me.
Oh, yeah.
Absolutely.
I'm going to post it next bubble from cells, and then bounce like that red ball.
This is brilliant.
I checked out Gambus today.
I don't know if you guys are looked into that.
No, what is that?
It's, I don't even have the website pulled up.
What's it called again?
It's called Gambus.
Maybe I'm saying it wrong.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Kind of like a basic.
It's a cruise.
Supercab power.
Here, I'll post the link in the IRC.
Okay.
It's a development environment based on, on basic, on a basic type language.
But it's, you like pick your gooey, like whatever you can, like,
you want it to be like a QT or GTK.
I mean, it's really nice.
I mean, it looks really nice.
I mean, you just drag and drop buttons over, double-click on them, and then you can put your code in.
But I cannot find any good documentation on it.
I did find a wiki, and just to make a hello world, I followed the instructions to a T.
Started it up, and the screen was blank.
You're not a very good programmer.
I followed it.
Like when I tried to teach myself a list.
Yeah, really.
Follow the directions to a T, and it wouldn't compile.
Yeah.
Yeah, this is all sounding just pressing recent earlier.
After three weeks of that, I said, maybe I don't need to learn lists.
Maybe I need to go back to school, that's what I said.
That's what I'm working on.
Why don't you mess around with Ruby?
I have a book on it.
I didn't really intend to get the book on Ruby.
It just happened to be about Ruby.
It's kind of neat, actually.
I hear different things about it, different goods and fads.
I don't really know anything.
I just know that it's kind of cool, actually.
I've been playing around with it.
I haven't been doing anything like Ruby on Rails or anything, because I don't do that whole web development thing.
It's a lot like Python, or it feels a lot like Python to me.
Has anyone compiled a 2.6.30 kernel lately, and actually had it booted?
Yeah, I'm using it now.
Okay.
And it's fast.
Okay, cool.
I get like 12 second boot times.
Nice.
Okay.
I got the source, and then I was talking to someone last night, and they were saying they were having trouble with it for some reason.
But I am going to...
Trouble with eyelets?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I don't think they were blaming the kernel itself.
I don't think it sounded...
I mean, he said that he was running it fine with 2.6.29, and then he used the same config file for 2.6.30.
And just wouldn't boot past a certain point or something.
I want Am's call too.
Am?
Yeah, because he's going to get kicked.
Maybe even banned.
I was in real life at the 20th.
Oh.
It wasn't a person on IRC.
Amazing, huh?
You went out into the world?
Yeah, you were okay.
You didn't have anything, do you?
No.
You didn't get the swine flu or the hip or anything?
Yeah, I don't know.
I'm getting checked soon for all that.
Okay.
Just in case.
Do you wear a dust mask when you go outside?
Yeah, of course.
Keep my nose from falling off.
Oh, jeez.
Well, you guys got anything else before I wrap this up?
Nope.
All right.
So I was looking at Godbus.
I am now looking at all the nice screenshots.
Well, it's very nice, but there's very little documentation on it.
And I think I need a lot of documentation.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I had a few ideas.
I was like, maybe Python.
And I'm like, well, maybe just PHP.
Do something that works inside the web browser?
Mm-hmm.
I don't know.
Python, I mean, I've had great experience with Python.
I just, I don't know.
It's a lot flow that I think I don't quite have yet.
So I don't work on that.
But I mean, Python, I mean, there seems to be interfaces for that all over the place.
You know, you got Python and Java.
You got PyCute.
You got PyGTK.
I mean, you just have anything you can imagine.
You can use Python.
Even Xcode understands Python.
And I mean, that doesn't understand anything, so.
And that PyCute, is that like a developed environment, too?
Or you can use it in K-Develop or Cute Creator, I'm pretty sure.
I haven't looked at Cute Creator in a little while, but I'm pretty sure you can use PyCute.
But certainly K-Develop.
Yeah.
Well, it's really neat using those designers.
Because you can like design a cool interface.
But then when it comes to like making things work.
Because I can make one hell of a design.
I think someone says that they actually knowingly did it that way.
I mean, it was, it's, that's, I guess all the programmers say don't do that.
You know, they say program the, the program first and then get the GUI around it.
But I was talking to someone.
I want to say it was Paul Field.
And I don't want to put words into his mouse in case I'm wrong.
But I think with him talking about Polkcaster, where he said he actually just did the visual interface first.
And then just assign the functions to all the little buttons and drop down menus and stuff like that.
And it worked out really well for him, so.
Or whoever I was talking to.
I can see it, it could be possible.
But it just, I don't know when I do something like that.
It makes you, it feels like you're actually doing something, you know.
Oh, sure, sure. Like when you just buy that first.
Yeah.
Yeah, I know.
I don't know.
I mean, maybe doing it that way first will give you or me a little bit better of an idea of how it all has to fit together.
Seeing it that way, you kind of get the logic of the application.
Or at least it would seem that way to me.
Well, there you go.
You could just design an interface for your 15 weeks.
There you go.
And that could be your, you could say, well, that's all I wanted to do.
That's cheating.
That doesn't do anything.
Oh, you could fail and still have some code to show.
That's true.
All right, I'm going to wrap it up.
And next week will be another tip radio.
So I'll see you guys next week.
Got to.
See you everyone.
Later.
Good night, job, boy.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Pharaoh.net.
So head on over to C-A-R-O dot N-E-C for all of those meetings.
Thank you.
Thank you.
