Episode: 941
Title: HPR0941: Whats in my bag / Portable Apps
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0941/hpr0941.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 05:15:20

---

This is the Germaniac here for another broadcast on Hacker Public Radio.
We are going to be talking about what I keep in my bag and what tools I may have in my
hand.
And some of this stuff I keep in my flash drives.
Some portable labs and some install media I keep with me at all times is a creator repair
technician.
Now let's delve into the media matter.
What's the matter at bag?
I keep a tool kit mainly meant for servicing laptops.
It's got your small Phillips head, flat heads, star bits, the whole nine yards and it's
also got the SD band to stop the build up of the electricity to help prevent electricity
discharge from any parts you may be handling and also has a soldering iron with some
resin.
Of course solder, I also keep a big Phillips screwdriver and a big flat head screwdriver
in there for working on actual desktop systems.
So it's also got a nice little cup to hold the small screws in when you're disassembling
a laptop or a desktop.
And I also keep it in a sort of manufacturer's on me.
At any one moment, I may have 24 kids come more of space on flash drives, work up into
three or four different drives at a time that carry on me in the process of evaluating
whether I want to buy a external hard drive for backing up customer data and to move all
of my different utilities to it along with some live booting flash drives I have.
On the flash drives, one of the note is I have a portable, I have a flash drive that has
a live boot install of a cane on it and cane stands for computer aided investigative
environment.
It's a Ubuntu-based GNU Linux live distribution credit as a project of digital forensics.
So it allows me, has Pizzidrat and I's graphical user interface on some of the Linux utilities
for digital forensics and technicians, and I keep that on a USB flash drive that I can
boot to if I need to use it to recover data or disabiles, find out who of his files or
whatever in the case may be.
I also keep a couple of other live CDs that are actually on CDs.
I keep a bad track and bad thoughts which are security and penetration testing tools.
Probably will do a podcast in the near future on how to use bad track at some point.
I use this for someone calls me and says, hey, I need you to test the security of my network
and show my weak points.
I can boot up into this bootable when it's on my laptop and attempt to crack their WPA
keys, web keys, just try to crack into their network using the ethical hacking tools of
course.
I also have a collection of installation disks that I keep with me in my bag.
I've got a Windows 7 All Versions disk, Windows Vista All Versions disk, and a Windows
USB disk for each version.
Everything's slipstream with the newest service pads out at the time.
So I have a slipstream version of a USB home with service pad 3, professional with service
pad 3, Windows 7 All Versions disk with service pad, whatever it's up to now, one or two.
I can't even remember if it was set down to the install with Windows 7.
And creating a Windows 7 All Versions disk is easiest can be, I just, I'll get into that
with another podcast.
And in some ways, I'm going to tell you how to create your own All Versions Windows 7
install disk.
Another thing I can keep on me is my flash drives with portable app suites.
And basically these portable app suites are applications that do not have to be installed
on the host machine.
I'm just plugging my flash drive.
They run entirely on my flash drive.
Everything writes to my flash drive, logs, user settings, everything is on my flash drive.
And I use a launcher for these, you don't have to use a launcher, you can just go into
each folder and open it manually.
A launcher just puts it in our little, do it and just click the program I want, it launches
it for me.
And I use the portable apps.com launcher, available app, portable apps.com.
And I use the older version that doesn't allow theming and whatnot, but the newest version
while staming has an app store and it's a portable app marketplace, which is free, open-source
software, freeware, portable apps that you can download and install to your flash drive.
Or if you wanted to install it on even your home machine, so you would have a dirty registry
at any time, your registry would be nice, clean and crisp.
And on it, I keep it a couple of apps that I'm just going to throw out there, no pad
plus plus, portable version, I'll also keep an USB web server for V8, which is a mystuel
and Apache server, runs under Windows, and runs off my flash drive, so if I'm wanting
to test something or if I'm working on some PHP scripts or something, I can do it only
to go from whatever computer I might be sitting at and keep all my files with me.
Also, there's a couple of games that keep on there, but as this is dear for TIT, it's
unrestrip over the games, for graphics.
I do keep a version of Kim portable with me, I don't try not to do data on the graphics
on the go.
I generally just went to a home to do my graphic work if I have to.
I think definitely FileZilla portable is a must that I have an FTP client, if I have
the FTP into my home server to download another disc or so, I may not have with me at the
moment.
I also keep a Mozilla Firefox portable edition, which is a rewrite, so everything says to
my flash drive.
It allows me to keep my foot, my arts and everything with me on the go at all times, and I keep
my hand to I in there, so I can chat with AOL and MSN Yahoo users, IRC, the whole nine
yards.
I'm a flash drive, I need to call help from somebody.
I don't have a phone number for them, I find them on one of the networks.
I'll keep Puddy portable, which is a portable version of the Puddy client, which is a lightweight
tone and SSH client for working with remote-linear systems, or just tone that into something
that I need to work on.
U-TWORP portable is on there as well, even though I don't really use that much.
I keep it on there in case I have to download a Lentist Show or something, and that offers
a .tWORP file.
I'll do that to save them the bandwidth on their host.
If I can editing, I keep audacity portable in case I need to edit a podcast on the go,
or if I can have something just come across in the middle of a writing or something in
a car, I can hook up my laptop, lower my flash drive or rather do not have audacity in
the store, and I can just run the audacity portable off the flash drive and start recording.
I keep co-player plus portable, which is a lightweight, fast, easy to use audio player.
I just like his layout, it's real slick and clean.
They do have VLC media player, portable and some other portable media players.
I just kind of fell in love with co-player plus for listening music.
Office suite.
I don't normally carry an office suite on a flash drive, even though they do have open
office portable out for it.
They also have a bunch of other stuff like sticky portable, to-do list portable, test coach
portals, some mantra PDF portable and POTS at reader portable, which I personally do carry
POTS at with me for reading PDFs on the fly-up and client machine does not have Adobe
or something else.
Security wise, there's a spybot search and destroy portable version, which I keep on
there.
I would not advise running any spyware removals from your flash drive copy to the hard drive
and rather from the hard drive, it runs much faster, much easier, but I keep it on there
and keep it updated readily in case I have a lot of machine that has so much malware
I cannot download and run spybot.
Also they have the open source, antivirus, clam, portable, available.
I generally don't carry that as I prefer, but I also have security essentials on a Windows
machine, as I've never had a problem with it myself.
And then there's also, I have a command prompt portable, which is just, all it does is
make shortcut to the command prompt on that computer and then it opens up with some arguments
so I don't have my foreground text and background color change like I like it, which is black background
green, foreground, or green text.
I have CAM Studio portable, which is a screen recorder and video producer software,
sign the record screen, crystal disk info and crystal disk mark portable, which is a
disk health monitoring tool and a disk benchmark utility.
And I also have a slower plus plus, which is a multi tab file manager, very handy to have
if you are going to be dealing with a ton of files and multiple folders, multiple locations
and you like tab browsing, a slower plus plus is a definite must have.
Also run, Rebo uninstall portable, which is an easy to use, uninstall or highly recommended.
I have a team be reportable, in case I have to team be wearing a mirror, dust off at the
house.
All I'm thinking about removing that and nothing just to RDP connections only.
I also have, let's see if I find another software that I'm missing telling you guys about
System Viewer or System Information Viewer.
It's a extremely ashympath, task viewer, process explorer, killer, and debugger.
It even had, they had their own database of safe, safe processes and you can check it,
unknown process with their database and see what other users is ready to get, whether
there's good, bad, malware or whatever it may be.
Number of pretty much portable apps I run that are available from portableapps.com forward
slash apps and that's the portable app thread or either there's also numerous of those
either there's portable, prettyware.com and there's a bunch of places, just a doodle search
for portable apps will show you numerous places to find a bunch of apps.
Some of them, like somebody went and made a devc++, a bloodshed devc++ portable version.
It's test link, download download link, give me a download link, not even sure if it's
good to have that but it is available.
So a doodle search for portable apps will turn up a lot of interesting things.
And also keep a set of needle nose pliers with me and just some ranges and what not.
In case they've got to work on installing a rat mount case or something else, if I got
actually mouse servers or whatever it may be, I also have one other bad that I keep in
my throat and it's got alcohol and whatnot.
It's got some rubbing alcohol, it's got some special stuff they sell for a refurbishing
a rubber belt for like a printer or something.
I keep it in my printer repair kit, it's got Q-tips, paper towels.
I use it for just cleaning up a printer if I think that's the issue with one of them.
That's pretty much what I carry in my bag that I take to a shop or in my pocket on my
flash drives.
I also have my laptop bag which has my laptop with all my ISOs on it which is a dolewood
machine from Ubuntu 11 and also Windows 7 Ultimate.
As I've found people in my area do not use a lot of Linux so I'm having to stay up to
date with most of the Windows stuff as well as a repair technician.
This is just my small episode on what I carry with me and what tools I have, what portable
apps I use and recording this.
I'm hoping someone may find something useful or that will help them save time in the long
run.
In a later episode again I'm probably going to get into more detail on how to create
your own Windows 7 all versions of this and how to do live USB media, I don't know,
Windows 7 how to create a live boot disk on a USB flash drive.
Hope you enjoyed this list, this broadcast and this is Digital Maniac out.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio where Hacker Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Empanomical Computer
Club.
HBR is funded by the Binary Revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are proudly sponsored
by Lina Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinaPages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons, attribution,
share a live, free those own license.
