Episode: 294
Title: HPR0294: Copyfight Vol5: Filtering
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0294/hpr0294.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 15:42:54

---

Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Hi, you're listening to Hacker Public Radio.
I'm 330, and this is Copy Fight.
Well Copy Fighters, we have a new administration and new, alright, the role problems.
Jeannie Jardine of Boing Boing is reporting that Hollywood's lobbyists are running all
over the hill trying to sneak in a copyright-filtering provision into the internet stimulus package.
The amendment will allow ISPs to, quote unquote, deter child pornography and copyright infringement
through network management techniques.
This amendment is very, very controversial for just a couple of reasons.
First, infringement can't be found through network management techniques.
Their legal use is for copyrighted works even without permission of the owner.
In second, it would require internet companies to examine every bit of information anyone
puts through the tubes in order to find allegedly infringing works without even a hint of
probable cause.
That would be a massive invasion of privacy, done as a request of one industry, thus violating
the rights of everyone who even is remotely online.
Right now, all we can really do is contact a few key senators, Majority Leader Harry
Reed, Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Daniel Aiyui, Chairman of the Commerce Committee,
Jay Rockefeller, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mike Buckis, and Senior Member of the Appropriations
Committee, Barbara Mulski, and just tell them to leave out this controversial provision
to something that could actually help this country, this country being the U.S.
I know they're hacker public radio listeners from all around the world, but this is specifically
for the U.S.
And really, aside from getting a hold of those few key senators, there's a petition online
that will be linked in the show and it's for this step.
Thank you for listening to H.P.R. sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over to C-A-R-O dot
on C-A-R-O dot.
