Episode: 908
Title: HPR0908: TV Downloader TED
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0908/hpr0908.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 04:44:45

---

Hello everyone, it's Riddlebox. Sorry it's been so long since I've done a podcast. Today
I'm going to tell you about my kind of sort of home DVR setup that I have at the moment.
This isn't another show talking about Myth TV. This is a little bit different. The Myth TV
project is a great project. I used to use Myth TV until something happened to my Myth TV
backend server and I lost all the tuner cards which can get very expensive to replace.
That's why I looked at another solution. And the solution that I found that works great
for me is a program called TED or Torrent Episode Downloader. It's a Java app that you
can download from TED.nu. You just download a, I think it's a tar.gz file or is it file
one of the two and extract that to a folder. I put it in my home directory and you can
put it wherever you want. And then you just change directory into that folder and you
issue command Java-jar-ted.jar-space-no-tray and no-tray spelled lowercase-no-capital-t-r-a-y.
You hit enter and the TED interface will come up and you can basically click on Add
Show and it will come up with a list of the popular shows I guess you could say or maybe
shows that people have put in there that the TED developers have thought were very good
and worthwhile. So you can scroll through it, you can search through a show, you can even
add a custom show. And when you, when you, I'll click on 30 back here, when you select
a show it even brings up like tv.com listing of the show telling the next time it'll air
and you can tell it to just record the next episode or you can tell it to record the last
aired episode or even custom episode which is good when you want to say get a whole season.
You can just go through select custom episode and choose the different seasons that it allows.
There is an option to download it in HD quality. I don't do it because you know the quality
is pretty good anyway. It's got extras in the extra folder that you can set up your
torrent you know how often you want it to search for new episodes where you want it to
download to how you know the torrent you select the most seeders or the ratio you want.
I did have an issue where I had to go in. I was getting a lot of files that didn't work.
So I had to go in and I had to check do not download files with these extensions. Zip,
RAR or R01 and R01 and then I select do not download torrents from private trackers
and then I also made sure the automatic episode scheduler was on and basically this thing
runs on a WN server that I have in my basement. I put Samba on that WN server and I set up a
guest share and my Blu-ray players can both read Samba shares so I just fire up my Blu-ray
player go to my share folder and I select my episodes. Sometimes they can put them in different
folders and stuff so you have to kind of keep an eye on them but it is pretty nice you can
just scroll right through them and hit a bunch of them that you want. So it's a very good
program and that's my episode for today. Thank you.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show,
like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener by yourself. If you ever consider
recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public
Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Cloud. HBR is funded
by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are crowd-responsive by
linear pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LunarPages.com for all
your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative
comments, attribution, share a live, free dose of license.
