Episode: 889
Title: HPR0889: 2011-2012 New Year's Eve Show Announcement
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0889/hpr0889.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 04:07:09

---

Hello listeners and contributors of Hacker Public Radio.
This is a special announcement, please don't skip this show.
The Hacker Public Radio Live New Year's Eve event will be streamed live from noon
to midnight Eastern Standard Time this Saturday, December 31st.
That's UTC 2011 December 31st, 1700 hours to 2012 January 1st, 0500 hours.
All Hacker Public Radio contributors and listeners are welcome and encouraged to call in via
mumble and discuss their favorite Hacker Public Radio shows and topics of 2011 or bring
a topic that you think would help us to have a good show.
We'll be taking calls up to the limit of the server.
We'll be streaming the whole thing as well as distilling it down to one or more podcasts
for the RSS feed.
Whether you've contributed to Hacker Public Radio or not, please consider calling in and
helping us to make this a great Hacker Public Radio community event.
Don't over to hackerpublicradio.org for details on how to dial into the server or how to
get the stream.
For people calling in and helping us out with the show, there will be a separate room on
our mumble server to test your audio setup before jumping into the live room.
This is just going to be to avoid doing on-air mic checks.
Please check your sound in that room, the test room before jumping into the main room.
What we're going to need you to do, we're going to ask you to do, just for compatibility
sake, is in mumble to set your compression to 31.8 kilobits per second, speaks codec,
and that's just compatibility.
We're not going to be able to use the Celt codec because we've had Celt codec in compatibility
problems lately and people can't hear each other.
Unfortunately, it means that you can't use an Android mumble client because it seems
to only want to use the Celt codec, but we have had problems lately getting Celt codecs
to sync up, the different versions are not compatible with one another, it seems.
If you would like to call in or if you would like to listen to that show, it's going to
be literally a 12-hour show.
For many time zones, it's going to span that 2011, 2012, the year's eve hour of jumping
over from one year to the next, so it's going to be great.
Anyone is welcome to call in and pretty much bring any topic that you'd like to talk about.
We're going to have plenty of time to get to everything is what we think is going to happen.
So again, please consider calling in, please consider donating some time to help us make
this a great show and even if not, head on over to hackerpublicradio.org and have a look
at the details there so that you can at least listen live for a little bit because it should
be a pretty fun event.
Alright, thank you very much for your time and we hope to see you on New Year's Eve.
Happy New Year.
You have been listening to Hackerpublicradio at Hackerpublicradio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hackerpublicradio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicum Computer
Club.
We are as funded by the Binary Revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are crowd
sponsored by Lina Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinaPages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments, attribution,
share a line, free those own license.
