Episode: 380
Title: HPR0380: Troubleshooting Blue screens of Death
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0380/hpr0380.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 19:24:47

---

working.
Hey guys, it's Winter here, today I'm going to be telling you how to troubleshoot the
blue screen of death on Windows.
It's not a very hard thing to do, although some of the error messages, even when you
look up the hex codes, can be a little unclear, even if they give you an explanation, which
if you look up the code on the MSDN, they do.
Next to the stop message, it will give you a hex code, which if you go to the MSDN, you
can look it up and it will give you what it means and give you suggestions on why it's
happening, like there is one called IRQL less than or equal to less than or equal, and
that means that the process or the driver or whatever tried to execute code outside of its
privilege level in the x86 architecture, the x86 protection mechanism specifies that
you can't execute code outside of your privilege level.
If you do say you're running in ring zero, so you're running in ring zero, which is the
most privilege level, you can basically execute any code you want, but if you're running
in ring three, which is the least privilege level, you cannot execute system level code
directly and you have to go through a gateway, you have to go through a gateway, which will
do it, so that's how that works, and in my show notes, I'll provide you some an abbreviated
list of these hex codes and the rest you can go on MSDN and look up, but if you get
the IRQL error, you should definitely go and update whatever driver or whatever driver
or application that is doing that because it's definitely a bug, but anyway, what you
do is you go and download the debugging tools for Windows, and I'll include a link to
that in my show notes, and then you, generally by default, on Vista, anyway, it will automatically
do a dump of what is in memory at the time the blue screen happened, and by default, it'll
automatically reboot, so what you do is you take that dump file and you configure the debugger
to use the Microsoft debugging symbols so that it knows what the function signature is of
all the system, all the internal Windows stuff that they don't publish, but it still exists
anyway. So you load that and you click the BN option to do a detailed analysis, and generally
it will tell you what was in memory and what the offending driver or process was that caused
the blue screen at that particular moment in time, and that's pretty much it. It's not a terribly
difficult thing to do, and I'll include some links to some common debugging tools
and some common messages that you will find if you do run into a blue screen. So, yeah, it's pretty
much it. Thanks for listening, I hope you enjoyed this, hope you find this useful. If you want to
contact me, if you have any questions, my email address will be up on the website, you can email me.
Okay, thank you. Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
