Episode: 460
Title: HPR0460: TiT Radio Ep 10 - OLF
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0460/hpr0460.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 21:07:37

---

The juiced penguin
A musical artist
For the odd community
Get it at juiced penguin dot com
All right to radio episode 10 starts now
You
Welcome to Hacker Public Radio at the round table with me tonight from one of the
most popular Linux cast in the world, Clot 2, the bad apples. And everyone's favorite
Linux crank, Peter 64. From the mountains, azimuth, no, actually I'm from the plains. I'm going
to get one of these, right? The guy that once saw Slackware, when Slackware wasn't
cool, 330. Right, I got that one, right? No, he's just not arguing it. Oh, I ran
in Slackware back before it was cool. Slackware was always cool. Shut the hell up. Shut up,
hipster. You with your ironic glasses and your skinny jeans. And somewhere out in the
Wild West, Zoke and Mrs. Zoke. How are you? And I'm going to join these guys together
because they're like samey's twins, Dan and Pat from the Linux link tech show. Oh, so
fun. Howdy. Child, I can say that being getting a workout tonight. And last but not least,
the man without a neckbeard, big wall. That's one shirt peg bolt to you. Well, I really
didn't get any feedback. Did you? Yeah, I did. I got an email. All right. Who's it from?
Johnathan, who is a blind Linux user, who I actually interviewed in, I think, season two
or three of my show that you've just mentioned, that Apple. And he is commenting on the little
scanner that Eggwell mentioned. And I guess it must have been, I guess it must have been
the last episode, like, you know, the one before we went to, I don't want it to, oh, oh,
oh, oh, oh. And if I could find the email, I would read it out loud. Nothing like being
prepared. I forgot I received it, actually. It wasn't until much. He said I mentioned feedback
that I remembered. I got it. I'm looking. He's got to go searching through his hotmail account.
Yeah, my hotmail account has it somewhere in here. Why don't they integrate like a being
searched with hotmail, then I can find things quickly. So who's hosting a Windows 7 install
party? Come on, Confess. Aren't we all? Isn't that a given? See the video that they had
a YouTube video of how to do it. And it was so bad. But someone did it. Someone did
another version where they just bleeped certain bits out and it makes it sound like a porno.
It was like, now, when you've got to plan your beep party, you really need to know how
to beep. I don't know, it was a... I think that's the last thing I saw on YouTube was
porn. My heart's the video. It's funny. It's a mad.
All right, I found the feedback. No. From Jonathan, he says, hey, go ahead, just listen
to the last tip radio. And you guys are talking about a scanner for the blind and make a portable
talking barcode scanner that has hundreds of thousands of barcodes in a database. So
when you go to the store, you can scan any item. Barcode reader will speak what the item
is. I don't own one, but that is pretty cool. I know you are sick about Android, but I
have a new Android phone, which is bike and iPhone. But there's no keyboard, but Google
has made a talking program for the phone. So when you run your finger over the screen,
you will speak what your finger is over. And if you want to select the item that your
finger is on, then you just have to lift your finger up and it's select whatever your
finger is over. It's almost a reverse button press. I know you hate flash, but if you want
to see it in action, check out the i's free channel on YouTube. Hope everything is going
well. Jonathan, I'm very glad you liked it and I'm glad I could help. I think an app
for a touch phone is pretty brilliant. I mean, it's kind of essential. I can't imagine
trying to use a touch phone without seeing the screen myself, but it's probably a little
bit helpful to have the audio feedback. It might be useful if you can. I think it'd be
awesome. You'd be able to navigate it from your pocket. Yeah, exactly. Plug back the
old days when you get text about it or pull on your phone at your pocket. And David Abbott
from Linux Crazy, I don't know if he sent you guys an email about the new Gen 2 live CD
or the live DVD. Yeah, I'll put it in the show notes. I guess they're beta testing right
now. I guess I keep wondering about this and maybe there's an obvious answer that I'm
just not thinking of, but why would you do a Gen 2 live disk? I mean, I thought one of
the major advantages, Gen 2 was that you were compiling it for your own system, your
processor, your, you know, everything. So it doesn't that kind of like kill that advantage.
You're just alive. That's because I'm fucking tired of waiting for everything to compile.
It's just tired of watching the compiler go by. Yeah. Can you blame them? No, I can't blame
them, but I mean, I guess it's advantage. I just don't get, I don't get the why use
Gen 2. I mean, I guess maybe because you're just used to the way they do things. Maybe
you just really like forwarded that much. Right. Yeah. Okay. I forgot about that. Yeah.
Okay. Okay. She's probably here, baby. It's yeah. So blank points for exactly that
range into. Okay. I found the link. I'll throw it in the IRC. You just set it to install
and compile and leave. Why would I leave when I have a man servant? Well, you guys just
a bad mouth. There are 10th anniversary Gen 2 live DVDs that the community's been working
hard on. Thanks a lot. And I'm not sad. I'm just saying I just don't understand it.
That's all. Clot 2. Clot 2 at Lennox Cranks. That info. Why did you get that? I give that
out on every shot. Never mind. Yeah, that's true. Actually, after one
corporate two, you see it. In my opinion, the Gen 2 live CD's a bunch of crap. I think
everyone ought to send that eight mile to him. Wow. Yeah. He did say that. Bring him
on the show. He's just trying to be cool. That's all. Yeah. When you six foot five, you
can be whatever you want. Who's going to argue with you? I think you've just been hanging
out with Jeremy Sands too long. All those other people. Oh, that hate, man. Oh, the
show hate. Yeah. And they're all like that. You get a couple of drinks and Dave and
listen to him talk shit. The hatred and prejudice. Not cool.
Cobra 2, 330 challenges you to a boxing match itself. We're going to try to. We're going
to try to line it up. I like just having videos for me. That would be great though. It
might be a real short one. I'll go to my head. You know where you say the big color
fight in the little fella and the big fella holds his head out on the part on the
fire of the little fella and the little fella standing there swinging and can't reach.
That would be 330. It's the next version of David and Goliath. And it was a big role
in a bottle car. Run him from stage left with the big fine drop kick. No, what's wrong
in there? He bites ankle. We'll bring him down. All right. We're going to get a little
sidetracked here. And also code M sent in a how I found Lennox clip. And it's only six
minutes long. So I'm going to go ahead and play it now. Okay. Here we go. Hello, this is
code M. This is how I found Lennox. I found Lennox one of the most unusual ways. I came
about it through the gaming industry kind of thing. I came about this game called 4x4
EVO 2. Don't know if you've heard of it. It's not open source related, Linux related
in any way, shape, form at all. The reason why it caught me to Linux is because it has
an online community. And a lot of people within that community did servers and such with
Linux in mind. And it was usually one of the more preferred operating systems when they
were doing such things. And I kind of ignored it for a good while. It's three, four years.
I don't know. But eventually I got an interest in it. So I tried to download a Ubuntu either.
So I didn't know how to burn it. I was told it lost. I didn't know what to do. I tried
to burn it as a data conversation. Obviously that went work. When I tried to boot to the
CD, all I would see is just Ubuntu logo. That's not helpful at all. So I kind of gave up
for probably another six months or so. Maybe not that long. But eventually I stumbled upon
Puppy Linux. And I found on her forums a nice description of how to burn an ISO format file
to the CD correctly. So I was able to boot Puppy Linux and DSL as live CDs. I got me kind
of excited. I thought, hey, this is kind of neat. So I started downloading distros like
crazy. I probably downloaded a good 30 distros or so. I don't know. But eventually I landed
back to Puppy Linux. Main reason being was the whole save file idea. It was really useful
to me because the computer I was using at the time was an old 2000 desktop. And it didn't
have USB boot. It only had CD boot and my dad didn't want me to be installing anything
to the hard drive. Probably a good idea. I didn't think so at the time myself, but probably
a good idea. So that's what I did is I used Puppy Live CD and I put the save file onto
the USB drive I have. A little forking byte thing at the time. And it works great. It
will slow obviously because it was USB 1. But it did the job. And I learned quite a bit
very quickly. I got into the command line. I thought that might be helpful. And it really
was until I realized that Puppy was based with busybox. And I just didn't like the fact
that all the commands that were known for being a giga new Linux operating system. It just
made no sense when you tried to follow a normal manual or anything like that. So eventually
I dumped Puppy Linux. I rooted around with different operating systems. I was using Vista
for a while. But I wanted to get back to Linux. So somehow I landed on Arch Linux and
that's where I'm at today. Nothing real interesting. The only hardware issues I have myself are
printer and dial modem issues. The printer, I'm using virtual box to print with Windows,
not the greatest solution in the world, but it's working. And modem I just don't really
care because I won't be using it that much longer anyways. I'll be going off to college
here soon. So I'm quite happy with the system I have. I mainly use my computer for programming
now since that's why I'm going to be going to school for. The tools I can't live without
for software goes is nano. I like it because it's simple and it does everything I needed to.
And you're not going to convince me otherwise people have tried. Other tools I can't live without
include Firefox. I'm not a real browser specific, but I love Firefox. It works. I've got to have
a pigeon. It's great. It does exactly what it's designed to do. Multiple chat things. I use it for
IRC, Facebook, MySpace, Yahoo, Google Talk, etc. The only thing I don't use it for is what it
can't be used for as far as chatting goes. Last tool I can't live without has to be a virtual box.
I've got to have virtual box now. First time I discovered it, I used it nonstop because I was in
Windows environment at the time. And quite simply, Arch Linux provide me with a much better programming
experience. I can't stand using GUI to program at the time. So I would always have Arch Linux up,
no matter what. It seemed like as soon as I had Vista running, I would have virtual box up and
having Arch Linux or at least another Linux operating system running. I can't stand.
Suppose that's about it. Have a good night folks.
Hey, all right. Thanks, Kodam. That was pretty neat.
How'd you guys think of it? I don't know what you're saying.
It was only six minutes. Good quality though.
Good quality. It was nice to meet him in Ohio Linux fast, too.
He's a big, he's tall.
He's weak. Now a good boy.
Yeah, I thought he was like six one.
I don't think so. I'm six one. And I think he was my height.
Oh, maybe I'm thinking of someone else.
Kodam was hanging around with the last non-god, right?
Yeah, that's the right guy.
Does anybody have anything to say about Ohio Linux fast?
It was great.
Yes, it was.
It really was. It was a lot of fun.
The guy from one external. Was he actually there?
Yeah, at the beginning.
I didn't see him at all.
Yeah, some powers were there.
He was like 10 feet from your guy's booth at one point actually.
I did not see him with other people.
He doesn't look anything like his publicity photos.
He looks younger and healthier.
Which is, you know, a good thing.
I'm not, you know, he was a very attractive gentleman.
Really? I thought he was gone for the whole day.
I thought he fell asleep.
Well, he might have, but I mean, he might have,
maybe he fell asleep in the conventional for all I know.
I saw him for sure.
And a lot of that was showed up, right?
Correct. He missed his flight, I guess,
because like work had called him in for something.
You know how this admin types are or whatever he does.
You know, my favorite talks was,
well, of course, Dan's Linux boot process.
Dan Wasco.
Mocha mine.
That guy is awesome.
And everyone, everyone I've talked to,
like I was at my 2600 meeting last night.
Was it last night, yeah?
And I mean, everyone who was there, they were like,
when I said, you know, so what talks did you guys see?
The first thing they mentioned was the Linux boot process
and they were raving about it.
That was really a good talk.
People liked it.
Thank you.
I just wish you had like another few minutes.
Yeah, that's what everyone else does, too.
It's like we should have just made that like a two hour talk or something.
Frankly, I agree.
I mean, if you've got the content and you've got the ability to talk in front of people
and keep them entertained or interested,
I said, yeah.
I mean, some of those talks are fairly, you know, boring.
I mean, it sounded like they'd be interesting,
but then you go there and the person's just kind of like
droning on and on and just can't really present kind of hard to sit through sometimes.
Yeah, that even keen out was brutal, man.
I feel sorry for that, Blake.
That's all I've sort of heard.
That was boring.
For this old dinner.
Peter, here's how boring this talk was.
I showed up late, started to walk in,
heard about six words and went,
ah, I don't really need a nap today and turned around to walk out.
What was he talking about?
Um, I'm not really too clear on what he was talking about.
It meandered so much.
I was just like,
I think in his days, they had to compile all their code,
going up, fill both.
Was that exactly?
Yeah, pretty much.
No one was really clear on what he was talking about.
I was sitting next to Snack Machine B
and I was just nodding.
He's the wrong guy who can make sleep around them.
How was he chosen then?
Who chose him to do it?
Surely that heard him speak before or something?
Yeah, I don't know about that.
I don't know who chose like the keynotes
and sort of the special speakers.
There was like a set of speakers
that were just kind of like already in place for some reason.
Before there was a call for talks or anything.
So I don't know who chose those talks.
And I guess the keynotes is one of those like,
I don't know who chooses them.
They just kind of like appear.
And I wonder about how much research they do.
I mean, I think sometimes you just kind of,
maybe they invite people for the name
and just kind of forget that,
oh yeah, they're going to be talking in front of a big group
and had better like sort of kind of know how to do that.
I mean, I'm not trying to found some great speaker,
but I mean, I don't know.
There's just a certain type of person
who can do kind of a lot of people.
And yeah, you know,
you can keep it interesting about nothing
and hold your attention.
Yeah, yeah.
And other people can take the most interesting subject
and turn it into just an absolute ball.
Right, yeah.
I mean, yeah, that's right.
Some people at least others aren't.
Yeah, like Gorkhan and Annie.
I think some of the,
oh, shit, yeah.
Some of the problems, where is that?
It was an old guy, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
And he was going out of snails.
He was going out of snails' taste, you know?
Yeah, it was just the wrong crowd.
It's the end of the day, everybody's tired.
You need something lively, you know?
Yes, exactly.
That's a big part of it.
So I think, I mean, I was kind of thinking about it.
It does kind of give it like super geek cred to have that,
that kind of talk at the end of the day.
It's like, yes, we are a geeky festival.
We have a super boring, highly technical talk
at the end of our festival.
But, you know, yeah, you kind of need something
a little bit more exciting,
just to keep everyone ready for the pre-party and stuff like that.
You know, the pre-party was going on.
It was like 9 p.m.
He was still talking.
Yeah.
And there was like six scooters in there
with the batteries dead,
and they couldn't get out.
So he just kept talking.
I don't remember that myself.
I don't know, when I talked to that guy,
I tried to keep him, you know,
keep the conversation moving, you know?
Well, yeah, I needed that your interview was really good.
I thought,
what's that part?
Is that part two or part one of the tilts down the top?
I forget, but it's the first interview in part three,
it's 40 minutes long.
Yeah, okay.
It's, yeah, that was really good.
And speaking of course, you're a hot topic episode.
What's that?
You're on the site.
I gotta say one at a time, please.
I was on the first one.
Monster B was nowhere to be found.
Yeah, what's the monster B ever go near the tilts table?
I don't understand.
I don't understand away from us, man.
I always do was.
I don't feel welcomed.
They wouldn't give me a free shirt.
I was very going to free shirt.
I got a free shirt.
Hey, I'm talking about shirts.
Is there any left?
So I'm going to make a donation, Pat.
Nope, there are no shirts left.
Sorry.
Say that.
What's, what's, what's, what's, you wear, Peter?
Um, it takes ill.
Yeah, right.
Is that a nightgown?
Sorry.
Is that a nightgown or what?
That's big. 112 kilos, so I'm not exactly small.
Well, I have a large, that's not ever going to fit me, but...
I don't know, actually. I don't think I've been large since I was small.
You and Snack Machine beakin' for all of it, Clot 2.
Well, Staphia, I'm not dead right now.
You know what, Peter? I'm looking into getting you a shirt. How about that?
I was gladly paid to pay to each day.
It's going to cost you like 200 bucks, so that's the problem.
I can't hold on. I'm going to make this joke. Is that Australian dollars or American dollars?
Thank you.
Thank you, Peter. I'm so glad you're here.
How about American dollars?
Euros. 200 Euros.
I can manage. I've got some enough sure I can't some way.
How's the fishin' these days, Peter?
Nah, we're not tellin' about it today, and we got some trouble last time.
We better catch the show on the ride.
We should do that. The Dan and Peter fishin' show.
I'm sorry, the Peter and Dan fishin' show.
We should.
I'd listen.
Come, Bill. Quick, move and run long before we touch the fishin'.
No.
Sounds to be okay.
You blew my cover.
Had the van still empty, hadn't it?
Did we appoint a sheriff?
Peter's always the sheriff.
That's it. Get in there, Ben.
You can't see him even.
Where's the 3X shirt? Do you think I would say no?
You can't be the sheriff?
Oh, that's the same size I wear.
I'm not afraid of you.
We're about the same size.
Yeah, I'm not afraid of you anymore.
I bet you were bigger.
No. I'm always wonderin' what you talkin' about.
Okay, and Clot 2, you had a really good talk too.
Editing video on Lennox with Blunder.
That was excellent.
Did you guys see, uh, make the most of your netbook with Moblin?
The guy that he was...
I wanted to see that, though.
That was a Don Fosberg.
That was a really good one.
Did you download it and try it yet?
Not yet.
I think I had tried to download it the other episode or something.
And I don't remember exactly what happened,
but it wasn't really working out for me for some reason.
It wouldn't hood off the SSD card with Moblin on it or something.
I'm still confused about the whole Moblin thing, like how Susa has their own.
I guess Ubuntu has one.
I'm not sure where to get it.
Now, when you download the one from the Moblin site, it's just generic.
Does it actually have a package manager?
I imagine it would. Maybe not.
You could just buy it from Dell. Dell saw on the machine what the preloaded.
No, where are they? Already?
Yeah. I know, is that far along?
Yeah, they're selling the Mini 10 with the Moblin on it.
Well, that's good.
Yeah, just looking at the screenshots, I want to try it.
Then after I've seen that talk, you know, with the videos and the way he actually had it on the projector.
Cool.
It looks nice.
What's so nice about it?
Everything thick, the screen is just nice and neat looking.
It's truly, it can't be better than the default Xandros OS that came on the original triple EPCs.
Does that even bother you to add on the triple EPCs anymore?
I think so.
Wow.
How about what did the triple EPCs come with besides Andros?
Windros?
No, I mean, besides Windows and Xandros.
I mean, they only come with Xandros for Windows.
It's probably still the same Xandros that they put on it when the first came out, too.
You're probably right.
I still have it online.
I bet you do.
I never boot into it, though.
Would you boot into Windows?
Debbie and Lenny.
Would you have that on an SSD?
No, I have two hard drives.
The 1,040G has two hard drives.
It has an 8 gig and a 32 gig.
Yeah, Xandros is on the 8 gig.
I didn't know you had that many gigs.
Yep.
Wow.
Pretty hefty size.
I see why the mobile and didn't work on the one that I downloaded.
I didn't see that it was for Intel, Atom, Netbooks, and I do not have Atom.
Maybe that is why the other distributions exist, you know, for like non-Atom platforms.
Well, we're ready to kick this thing off.
Let's rock into the lineage world.
Is that what I say?
Quite kind of thing.
Clot 2.
Yes.
Do you think that other talks besides the Friday talks posted for Ohio Linux?
Not yet, as far as I know.
And actually, I guess this is probably as good a time as any dimension.
That everything in room number 2 and track number 2, which I think is the source for a dream.
Track, whatever, came out with static all through the audio from what I'm...
If anyone out there recorded stuff from Track 2, they should contact.
I guess it's just a team at DEM at OhioLinux.org and let someone know
so that they can maybe use your audio instead of the audio they got.
That's just a general open call for audio from Track 2.
Was that the track with licensing from a hacker perspective in it?
Licensing from a hacker perspective.
It would have had open source software, community workshop, democratized design, shared destiny,
40 years of Unix, and 40 years of VM.
The importance of 1969 was theater sales.
Introduction to GNOME 3.
Legalities of soft from a hacker's perspective.
Yeah, that's it.
Those in your community around your project and group will kickstart.
That's what would have been in Track 2 if I'm not mistaken.
I don't think I am.
So yeah, hopefully people, I know a couple of people who recorded some of the talks,
hopefully enough people will come together and sort of recreate Track 2, I hope.
How about this?
That's unfortunate, man.
Yeah, I don't know why they didn't discover it.
I don't know.
It sounds to me, I mean since the audience wasn't hearing it, obviously it must have been
something between the computer and the amp.
So I don't know.
Weird.
I'm surprised no one just listened to what they recorded after the first one.
So it would never have happened itself?
Yeah, it would never have happened.
Yeah, it shouldn't have happened.
But I guess they were reporting a lot of different rooms.
So it's kind of hard to, you know, it's a big job.
And not a lot of people doing it.
Damn, look at this.
I was just looking over the Ohio Linux Fest 2009 report.
And some of the exhibitors at the show included Linux Journal,
the Free Software Foundation, Electronic Frontier Foundation.
Linux and the Ham Shack, Barnes and Noble, Dayton,
Dayton Linux user group Hurricane Labs, KDE crew, IBM Oracle,
and a number of other vendors in corporations.
They didn't even mention tilts.
Don't you hear that crap?
We gotta shut the game.
Sorry, go ahead, Squatzill.
I don't mean to steer your thunder.
No, I was just making that general announcement.
But yeah, you know, I wrote a review of Ohio Linux Fest
for the Linux Pro magazine.
I forgot to mention tilts, too.
I didn't know you guys were like vendors.
I thought you were just like, I don't know,
coasting on the cocails of Ohio Linux.
But I did mention your raffle, though.
So that's a mention.
Right there.
A raffle and what?
Oh, yeah.
That's the first and the last time we're doing it at the end like that.
Yeah.
Well, you guys did it right.
It was the other raffle that was going on.
That was just horrible.
You mean fail, lady?
Yeah.
She's a very nice person.
I'm sure.
It just went on way too long.
Yeah, but she scared...
She scared the Jesus out of me when she yelled at the first time.
Yeah, me, too.
Oh, the Matthew Login.
Yeah.
You should hook her up with pegwool.
She's got a fucking racco.
Where's she from?
Ohio.
Hawaii by wave California by wave.
Ohio.
Yeah, she got a fucking accident, man.
Oh, you'd get that from going from Hawaii to California to Ohio.
Yeah.
But that's like, that's like riding from paradise straight into hell.
Yeah, you're right.
Hawaii is paradise, man.
Like, what's her next stop?
Detroit.
Jersey.
Newark, New Jersey.
Yeah.
Where do you go?
Indiana.
Indiana.
Indiana.
It's a pair of Hoboken, New Jersey.
She got an email one day.
We got a nice cardboard box here.
Hoboken is like a Greenwich village, you know, light, you know.
It's actually a pretty cool place to hang out.
Are we going to talk about Leo now?
Yeah.
That's your topic, go for it.
Yeah.
I wanted to talk about that a little bit.
Well, Leo Laporte did some interview.
And he says he made $1.5 million in the past year from his sweet network.
Now, that's pretty cool that a guy is able to make that much money doing just podcasting, you know.
Who does that to him for that?
Sure go on, man.
I'm going to interrupt you here for just a second now.
Is that $1.5 million in profit for him or $1.5 million?
Well, he says that's how much they made.
And then he also mentioned that they had expenses of $350,000 with seven employees.
Is that American dollars or $1,000,000?
That's American.
And he says that revenue is doubling annually.
So it sounds like he's raking in the box.
Okay, now I heard much from like I said.
They must charge their sponsors.
They really make them.
They keep that out and post on security.
We're not an average, I've got company.
All of them.
Study?
I heard about this and you know, after I initially thought,
wow, that's cool that he made that much money.
I'm thinking, you know, on every show that I've heard,
he's only soliciting money from listeners.
You know, he has this thing where he says, you know,
we can't do it without contributions from listeners like you.
Oh yeah.
And I thought about that.
And that got me very angry.
I'm like thinking, this guy's making $1.5 million and he's asking for money from listeners.
That really pissed me off when I thought about it a little bit.
What is it?
And then, like, capitalism?
I mean, the guy's trying to get on with it.
No, not at all, man.
Listen, listen, listen.
People are free to make whatever they, you know, they can.
You know, I don't have a problem with that.
What I have a problem is that somebody's making money hand over the fifth.
Okay.
And trying to milk his listeners is very audience.
But the money that he has, you know.
The money he's soliciting from his listeners.
How much of that is in that $1.5 million?
Maybe, I mean, this guy has a hell of a lot of listeners.
What I see is that this money that he's getting from listeners goes right back to the listeners
in terms of quality content.
Thank you.
I don't know about that.
To me neither.
Who knows?
Who knows?
Who knows? Who the hell?
Oh, he knows.
If you consider talking about Twitter from 30 or 40 minutes, well, that's a quality then.
Because that's all they send to bloody talk about lately.
Who's that sort of shit?
Yeah, on the iPhone.
Peter, have you seen Twitter?
Have you seen the things that go on there?
No.
I haven't logged in the Twitter now for months.
Yeah, but now you see how easy it is to derail a conversation into Twitter.
Sorry?
No.
Well, anyway.
Calm down, Gene, too, for God's sake.
So you want me to show you $1.5 million in revenue.
And he has a cost of $350,000.
Yeah.
Okay, sorry, go ahead.
You know, the only show that I still listen to is Floss Weekly.
Hey, that's the only show that I haven't had his network that I actually subscribed to.
And on the last, I think it was the last show.
They were talking about having an org file and having an org feed.
And supposedly they had one a long time ago, but they stopped it.
And then Reynolds Schwartz was saying that, you know, if someone's willing to do the work for them
and host the file for them, that they would do it.
Now, as we were reporting, you know, a profit of like $1.2 million.
You tell me he can't spring for fucking Libson account or have somebody posted on,
like, Internet Archive or something?
You know, the other thing is coding the file takes about two minutes to do.
I don't know.
I heard that, and that got me riled up.
We have how much of that?
Not having an org feed on that show.
Given that it's a free and Libre and open source software show.
Like, what is the justification for not having the org feed?
I've heard the mention org.
At least I've heard the mention org.
If they see costs in that, nobody wants it.
Every time I've heard the mention org, they say that, you know, five people are subscribed to it.
Nobody cares.
So you would think that hosting it would be fairly negligible.
I mean, faith is cheap.
It's the bandwidth that you're worried about.
So, I mean, it's only five people who want it.
And it's a simple shell script that you can implement.
So that once you export the stupid thing from Adobe Audition or whatever you record everything in,
you know, you switch it over to Aug as well, upload it and you're done.
It's not like you need a whole lot of bandwidth for those five listeners.
You're going to get logged.
Something doesn't add up here.
A very small and nominal fee of $100 a month.
I will host his org files and convert them myself.
There you go.
There you go.
Pickle over to a pan.
I don't know.
I just thought it was kind of weak.
It sounds like, you know, people are like busing their chops or not having an org.
And they're kind of going through the motions.
You know, saying, yeah, we want to have an org file bought, you know, blah, blah, blah.
And I just don't buy it.
I call bullshit.
Yeah.
But how is this?
I mean, what's the story here that he's still not serious about for, you know, a consortial software?
I mean, God, what do you expect?
This is Leo Laporte and Randall Schwartz and the Twitch network.
I mean, this doesn't come as a surprise to me.
Any of this?
No, it doesn't.
And I posted on, you know, on Gribber, you know.
And I have an authentic account and a Twitter account on there.
And after a while, you know, I was talking to somebody, Randall jumped in.
And he was like, you know, yeah, there's fees, blah, blah, blah, and all this.
And I basically call bullshit, you know.
It's like, you know, this guy's making this much money.
You tell me he can't afford to have somebody, you know, spend five minutes to encode the file
and cut it up to the internet archive and update an update to feed.
You know what, Pat?
Here's your problem.
GarageBand doesn't export into org format.
I guess that's the problem.
That's the problem right there.
You know what is sad about that?
You know, technically, when you think about it, you get the show, your way file,
you do whatever you need to do with the file.
You just fire off a script that encodes everything that puts a word along.
You don't even need to do anything.
Yeah, Randall's a probe program.
You tell me he can't code something up.
Can code a file and copy it up and update a feed?
They only have time for that stuff.
They're out of the gate and play around with Open Codex.
Yeah.
Well, you know, listen.
I would respect it more if they said, listen, we don't care about org.
Stop asking for it and store it.
Now it would be the end of it, you know?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's a good point.
Yeah.
Just give it to the people straight.
I mean, if you don't care about it, just be upfront about it.
Don't make up excuses.
Yeah, having a hole or going through durations, you know.
But I don't know.
The whole thing with all this nonsense and him asking for money,
it kind of pissed me off.
Well, I'm deleting them from my BP config file.
There's Potter.
Just approve a point here.
Let's see if we can raise more money than Leo.
So go over to LennoxCrank.info and click on the donate button.
And let's see if we can beat that 1.5 million.
Yeah, good luck.
Let's do it.
Come on.
Let's try it.
Who gets that money, by the way?
Well, there's a lot of cost here.
It depends.
It depends.
I'll probably like take 10% and split it up with everybody on the show.
But if you're only on the show like once or twice a year,
you're not going to get nothing.
And if you don't get anything, you don't get anything.
Right.
Yeah.
We're going to go play both kicks too.
If you had like more than, I don't say 50 vote kicks in a season,
you're not getting any money.
You don't get anything.
I'm screwed.
I think I owe money then.
You know, it's kind of sucky that they can get Linus Torvald on the show,
but we can never get him on.
You had already.
That's because they're at the same pool.
