Episode: 129
Title: HPR0129: Panama City Linux User Group Meeting
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0129/hpr0129.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 12:15:59

---

music
This recording of the Panama City Linux user group meeting number 58 was made on June 19,
2008 while on vacation, this slide presentation to accompany the audio can be found at bclog.info
and by following the link in the show notes.
All right, you want to start going through the links? Sure.
This one I put in, and this is old from at least two weeks ago.
This was a little shot of the second merge of the OOTC.
And this is a slow machine, I don't know, but I was supposed to have like a touchscreen on both sides.
And I heard this they were talking about it against multitouch.
So like the keyboard, you know, it's like they could do a international keyboard.
A lot easier because it's not even a hardware keyboard.
Wow, it's a bit damaged over there.
And I went on.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know.
I don't know how they do that stuff here.
You look at the specs on the old one.
I mean, maybe it was slow and a little hard to use.
The guy that was crazy, but they got out of that little bit of power.
Anyway, I'm just going to put my back down and try it.
This is the game, and you've already seen that, but the PDRK, the game.
Did they have it for Linux, my Windows, and Xbox Live, okay, arcade, computer games,
a couple of guys, they're not familiar with it, but a couple of guys should basically write comics
and do what commentary on video game industry.
Pretty funny, they had a very big following.
They did something that the most most people were critics of it, and you won't do it.
They actually made a game with a company about their characters and stuff like that.
You know, it's got nice reviews, but they released it through there.
They had kind of a home group game site called Greenhouse that they're starting up.
This is the first game released on Greenhouse.
And they released the front platform, so that was very cool.
But yeah, they were, they definitely put it on the Xbox, arcade, and, you see, Mac Linux.
It looks pretty good. I put the demo, and that looks pretty good.
I just don't have the time to get it anymore, so.
Yeah, it looks pretty good.
Then take Windows Vista and eight gigs of RAM to, you know, I didn't try to do this,
I don't know what department's work for that.
I was learning about BIOS deep code.
Oh, you got to do the one in the microwave.
Yeah, what's the microwave doing?
No video card.
You can't work that.
That's funny, isn't it?
I can take you for it.
There's a kill, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
This one is, I didn't really know this.
It seems like I've heard it, but I never messed with it before.
The Flash has a BI command editing mode.
For people who are like, uh, really long.
Yeah, so like you just set mine so, uh, and uh, you can go in command and insert mode.
And I try to do this all the time by accident.
One guy can use a little command one.
Yeah, I mean, don't you find yourself doing it?
Yeah, I do.
Like, I'm always hitting yellow or something.
So it actually has that, but I just never used it.
Anyway, I figured it was people.
And you can like, yank, argument and put them in another place and all that kind of stuff.
Change where, so all the stuff that you try to do on accident,
actually does work when you see around that one.
This one, I think I saw this one today.
They were talking about, um, how, uh, AMD is doing the shared source or a lot of the source
that they reuse on their Linux.
They're Windows, they're, uh, Solaris and all the, all the driver base is trying to make it as much
common because it's possible.
So they're getting support out for the car just for the next weekend.
That's just a powerful on that.
Is that the official Ruby, uh,
I don't think Python can hold, you know, no, no, no, no, no, no,
it's not Ruby the language I don't think it's, uh,
it's the idea of, oh, okay, it's the idea of color at home.
Whatever that thing is.
They'd be pretty smart, please.
The logo like, yeah, I think so.
I don't know if you could save Python and have a girl like that.
That wouldn't last very well.
I don't think so.
Maybe Boa.
Yeah, something like that.
This one, everybody mentioned it last week, but it happens to us last, so.
So what do we do here again?
You can do like a SS per search.
You can do like B for video, I think.
Yeah, I see.
Yeah, I see.
I did, I see.
Who hired this keyboard?
Okay.
It's very quick in this space.
I do the little stuff.
No, we're not the first one.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
I'm trying to do that.
I'm trying to do something.
Anyway, just a little show thing in there.
There's all kind of stuff.
You can do a type of build.
Yeah, you can go up on the ground.
Front row.
Search what you can do.
Kind of.
All right, so.
This one is here.
I don't know.
I think it is.
No, I don't think that was me.
Can you send it to me?
That's the AMD thing.
AMD makes evolutionary leap.
That's one of your previous links.
Yeah, if I did send it to you, I don't remember.
I don't know how to paste it in the wrong link with the wrong thing.
Let me see what it says.
So I'll put it under this test image mark.
I thought you sent me something about testing.
Yeah, because it was with this same email.
I think I might have pasted it wrong.
I think it's the right page.
That's all that link.
And it will read your date.
I mean, okay.
And I think it was.
Is that weird page?
Yeah.
This one.
I know this one.
Yeah.
I think it's not.
When I do a new tab, I do not go into it.
Did you get an SLM?
Are you going to get screened?
Yeah.
And what I did a new tab.
It's not going to do it.
It's going in the background.
Yeah, I guess I need it.
It's all down shift.
All right.
So I just wanted to do it.
Let me do the thing.
Okay.
It was.
This was just kind of instrumental part of it.
The notebook remix.
It was kind of made to mention it.
In the interview a while back with Mark Schoer.
Basically, it's supposed to be an EM.
Kind of stripped down version of them through.
For like, maybe out of base.
Small, portable.
Small into some notebook thing.
I'm not going to keep you the right term.
Like the A's?
Yeah, I kind of like that.
It's a small, you know, on-off,
a web surf kind of machine or whatever.
Really?
So it looked pretty cool.
The idea was kind of neat.
I guess there were sort of things about that.
I thought it would be really fun to play with.
And I had mentioned the Dwayne.
Read reading through this thing with the questions and answers.
It had a lot of good things to say.
But it went down.
So they seem to make it sort of clear that they have to be
OEM only.
So they mark up and just have like, you know,
just don't go what we're going to do with CDISO
for installing this on a device or something like that.
And it's supposed to be, when you buy a device, it's on there.
And then there's a good place to do that.
I kind of understand why that's there.
Why that's their angle?
Because right now those devices are,
they're not currently out there.
So instead of it being an 8-by-1 with windows,
whatever on it, you put the Ubuntu on it.
Now it's equally viable.
This is viable with the Ubuntu Gintler.
And if that's the angle we're trying to push,
because we're trying to change the, you know,
the kind of, I guess that,
that mental approach instead of
being a displacement OS and being an actual OEM type thing.
Which they've shown through, you know,
their GILS with Dell,
selling Dell's with Ubuntu or pre-installed that kind of thing.
So it looks cool.
Looks like you're being pretty neat to play with.
You can just go download it
and boot it up in the virtual machine
or something like that.
It kind of reads like you can do it,
but you kind of got to know what you're doing.
They're not going to support it.
They're not going to, you know, that kind of thing.
So if you're interested,
and that's one of things,
read that's a pretty good question answer.
All right.
This one is gone.
Yeah.
Intrusion detection.
Open source.
There's a couple of accessible big choices
for intrusion detection
on your system.
Given the kind of thing
that's really what it talks about.
I mean, it's just cool.
So actually, yeah.
I know we were talking about it in the last couple of weeks
ago.
And I came across that article about the same time
that was being talked about,
so I decided to send it out.
This one is YouTube.
Yeah. This was a,
this is just a,
a little bit more exploits,
a little bit more of an explanation about,
maybe some recommendations about partitioning your system
with your stolen from scratch,
and what they, maybe give you some insight
into what's like a bar
and that's different kind of mount points
or what's underneath them.
So depending on what kind of system you're installing for,
some recommendations and sizes and things like that.
I like that.
Yeah, that's true.
Other several,
other several different articles we've talked about in the past about it.
And I like looking at how you
mix up partition just having three.
Yeah.
And so, I think I'll take the time
to just run that out.
And why you're getting, you know,
like if you're running a web server,
you know, what partition you need to separate out.
It's been like that.
Oh, that'd be useful.
Was this useful?
Yeah, this was useful.
I don't know about this,
but one time a year,
it wasn't X86.
It went around the quake three,
four,
and I like how it was,
and I think it went out.
I'm talking about it.
I think so.
But you see it, maybe a little
arm of it, and CPU.
Oh, yeah, that was the,
it was for, again, like,
the small devices.
It plays HD content.
I mean, it says CPU, graphics,
all of them together.
HDMI out.
Yeah.
I quake three, handheld resolution,
4X, and that's about good for filtering.
40 per second.
Wow.
And it's, and it's for like a smartphone
or a handheld.
1080p decoding.
720p encoding, I think.
I don't enjoy it.
You're going to fall into the quake three.
That's it for there?
That's it for there.
That's the price.
An arm processor, and they're,
graphics.
They say it.
It did.
I think, and I'm guessing this chip comes in like scroll,
device to scroll up.
FDA has your plug-1 MIPS.
Maybe.
So it has an integrated,
on-the-living, whole processor.
What is it?
It's able to load power.
Small size.
I was thinking they had two.
I think that's what's in these, in 18.
I know it's an arm processor,
on-the-living or not.
Okay.
There it is.
25 hours of video playback.
Wow.
That's crazy.
30 hours of video playback.
Yeah.
1080, 24 or 24 seconds.
You guys use this feature on the mid-five box,
the full page.
We have that.
You know, we always have everything for our most everything.
They do it now.
It does images.
The control plus, control plus control minus.
Yeah.
Is it keypad plus?
That's control.
Yeah, keypad plus.
That they control the shift.
Of course, then.
Just kind of give it a little gravity.
That's the full page, which I thought was kind of cool.
Now it's too good to hear.
This is a really slow control zero,
where we sit.
Yeah, we know what that normally used on.
I thought about here the day I saw it on the add-ons.
And fire bug works at the beta version, fire bug.
What does that mean speed dial?
Speed dial has this thing where basically your home page was a list of sort of your favorite apps.
That's all I have to do.
Kind of.
It's like when you open a new tab without a, like, these open a blank new tab.
It would have like nine options.
They have pre-programmed that you have chosen.
And you did like number three and get to a web page that you already had programmed.
And it's an image, a preview, there's a preview of whatever's on that side.
That used to only be an offer now.
He's saying that's in the new car.
There's an ad on that.
I think, did you send me this one Chris?
I did.
Yes, yeah.
I think I'll bring it up to the might of me as well.
So, to the might of me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Based on the answer to looking at that shipping with some version of mine.
Yeah, I don't think they, they don't, they specify the, the, the, the, the answer to looking at making some,
that's a lot of power to ship with.
But it brings home as well.
So, now you look at that.
I don't know if this is the dose.
And a few other kind of niche machines.
But there's a lot of agents out there that do provide, like, Walmart and stuff like that,
that make potentially the, yeah.
I have a bigger figure with those systems.
So, more of the better.
This one is.
Is that you?
I said I sent this last phone.
I'm going to write one.
How much they paying you out of this, man?
I'm going to retire.
Well, I think this one speaks for itself.
They were talking about how long the OS has been up without rebooting.
Oh, really?
That it defaults to safe mode, whenever there's a problem.
And they're real happy with being able to default to safe mode.
They also said a lot about the, um, the guys who write code for them.
And that, um, they do, like you see in the bottom paragraph, 20 to 30 sequences, 50 lines of code.
And it's, but I'm curious how much of it's new stuff.
You know, it's like probably some of it's moved this arm this way and point the antenna that away.
But the other neat thing about it was to me was how long the OS was up without any failures.
Which remind me of the story that Jake told, this is this networking guy in our group.
He was talking about Cisco equipment, which is this unique space, right?
Cisco stuff.
And that, and I thought it might be a neat Guinness World Book of Records category, you know, like the Firefox thing we're just talking about was, you know,
they didn't want to reboot a Cisco box because it had been up for four years.
And so they didn't want to do any maintenance, you know, the new patches came to it.
No, we don't want, because they thought it was neat how long it was up.
No.
So I thought, well, I wonder if there was a Guinness World Book of Records.
The story that I heard several times about some, some, uh, unit machine running at some school and had some process that had been home or something.
And I said, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
because during the download party I got the system update notification and I
need a Firefox 3. Yeah see wow there you go. That's what I'm talking about okay
yes he's going that's how it looks. That looks a little suspicious yeah I've read
this page before. I think at the bottom it says something about there just doesn't
yeah did you say the the jeopardy thing the the jeopardy tournament with the
college key and at the end the guy reached 13.30 and he wrote it out he's like
he's about the Firefox thing because during the download you know record setting
kind of for Firefox 3 you wonder I got the update as of the update it's all
Firefox 300 that counts you know because it's coming through the ability of
repositories so I don't know they had instructions are a note there that
only manual downloads from the site down down well I don't think that's the
count it yeah I mean I did I went download it afterwards just make sure it counts you
but before we go on all those little dead things be gone out of here you know
eat them now stick them in the pocket let's go home let's go home let's go home
put a cup on your desk I just wanted to mention one of the podcast houses too
I think it might have been twisted or or security now or something one of the
guys on there was talking about how the EFF kind of saved him when we had
somebody come in basically to the I think the FBI was coming to to request a
record from his his website and basically as soon as he got the letter he said
the letter told him that he couldn't inform anybody as company about it good
talk to his lawyers about it against the law for you to talk to anybody about that
so somehow I don't know he said it sounded ridiculous to him and there was no
you know so I think I don't know however he got in touch with these people and
and they said they were like well we don't want to know anything about it
because then it puts them under the same thing as him and so anyway he had a
story about it anyway it sounded very interesting and that the EFF kind of
saved him on that I guess they could have taken him out pretty pretty good if it
wasn't them so I figured out what I would mention and if you go to their
website they talk about all the cases they've done and all and it's
everything like peer-to-peer file sharing and you know request for information
from web admins and ISPs they have a podcast now too all they did the EFF okay so
there you go my personal that too and there's the link to the website so you know
donation or t-shirt or whatever you might you might look at their website and see
I thought I'll get at least a t-shirt or the t-shirt is cool looking I don't know
I don't know
hey there's some more bowls over there if you want to put some of the chips on the
bowl yeah I was just gonna jump in there you can double-monger that's fine
we'll do that later if you guys mix that mix the fire out in the air right there
they're gonna want to do it but you guys scared but I'm scared that's all right
really I'll put it on the line if you ever had those I have and they're hot as
could be yeah they're really hot sometimes they're unbearable hot
I think in the middle of this we're out of say date to come more off
it's very lively love yeah I read a article
nobody has been for the government there was trying to see somebody do a
while sharing
so I think it's a good word man about what the I look at it the website
I'll see the t-shirt okay that's uh yeah it's cool look you did that's right
in order was he can't but yeah yeah I'm gonna roll it off we're gonna
institute a Gilmore t-shirt rating system yeah
I don't think there's a lot to make see right there we need to tell them they need to put their
t-shirt on a cell right over the top there
oh there's a logo yeah I said a logo is pretty cool yeah yeah that's a good shirt
yeah I like the middle video one so and I like the hat like the hat like the hat
I don't mean that that's a good deal
oh man you're better you're a student right 65 this I get six months here
lower six months is that US or is that contaminated by the euro I don't know
right there's a strange rig that's why I just think the donation would be more
there was something other than American though yeah that's a foul look at it that's
30 maybe to get a t-shirt and a hat you have to 500
yeah
100 T-shirt hat or now counts as T-shirt hat oh or oh
oh T-shirt and hat combo it's 500
what is the number so far I'm going to serve you for stores from package up there
out here I guess not I guess my look just give you
yeah
Yeah, I'm having only like, how do you want to eat right now?
That's like Jason, a way to get his thing with the Sito.
Yeah.
That's a lot of money and I was like, well, it's about less than six hundred dollars.
Yeah.
Pull me back one down.
That's nice because everybody would be like, yeah.
What is that?
It's just you.
It's X.
All right.
So, this is kind of a obvious thing for probably people who program and anybody making
using a done bash, but I figured I'd mention it.
I've got to use it the other day.
But basically, just a way to have kind of air handling thing in a bash strip using the
bar.
So, like, for an over you evaluate, you can just, you know, if this is true or that is true,
then it's true.
This is true or that is false.
You know, one of which is true.
So, you've got a true, false or true.
It's true.
And false or false is false.
So, looking at this thing, if, well, as an efficiency in most programming language and
bash, if the first thing it comes to is true, it won't even evaluate the second thing
because all that has to be true is one of them.
So, it won't even evaluate the second thing.
Well, you can use that to your advantage.
So, in bash, if I do something like this, like, this is my command I want to execute.
It's a, you know, just an LS of it.
And that file is not there.
So, it will actually evaluate the false.
You know, your conditions can't be a statement like a bunch of commands.
I'll run them again or grab or something.
And it returns back this value, which will evaluate the true or false.
So, I can actually make the left-hand side conditions be a command and the right-hand side condition be a command.
So, if this command that I put on this side returns back to success, then it won't even run the right-hand.
And you see, it only one thing has to be true.
But if it's false, it'll check the other side to see if it's true.
So, you'd use that as your, to your advantage by saying, I'm going to put this command here.
I'm going to say, or, and then I'm going to put my failure command here.
So, if this thing returns true, it succeeds.
This never gets executed.
But if it fails, this gets executed.
And so, I wanted to cheat way, basically, on one of my things I have,
it's the little box that sits on the projector.
And so, I wanted to run in-player and have it go to a URL or a file and start playing it.
Well, I wanted to have a really easy way to say, well, if in-player failed to play this thing, I'm going to pop up some here.
And because there's no keyboard or anything attached to it, I'm using this.
And so, it's the on-screen display stuff.
And how would you do the volume, and it was little bars up there,
or overlay it onto your screen?
That's how they do it, but that X on-screen display library.
So, I wanted to be able to run this command, which in my case it was in-player, or echo something in private to this OSD cat,
which puts it on the screen.
So, basically, you know, run the LS, if it fails, this will come out.
If it succeeds, then nothing comes out.
And now, the reason why I put this too greater than DevNode is redirecting standard error to DevNode,
so that if the command fails, I don't get any output on the command line.
All I get is this thing popped up to OSD cat.
And I don't think I have that installed on this machine, but we can install it if we can see.
I just...
Do I remember I told you I went to the original one to that key screen?
Yeah.
Well, I thought...
I'm pretty sure that it probably is the language that is a little different.
It's a virus.
It's pretty much what I was doing.
Uh-huh.
But that tool, DevNode, is the same thing with the sliders.
Yeah, yeah.
That's a kind of unique thing.
So, it's not really that far off, then.
Some things aren't.
That'll be definitely the same.
Yeah.
That's a pretty much kind of thing.
I mean, it's a real hard thing.
Uh-huh.
If they both have some type of a coalition with one another.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, this XOSD bin, uh, the package is where you get the OSD cat.
Uh, yeah.
I just don't know anything.
I'm not sure it's going to work with this shit.
So, like if I do...
Uh, I can't be a room.
A room doesn't work on display.
If I do something like my name, it's going to be super tiny,
but I don't want to go through the whole thing of changing the font.
Uh, uh, but you'll get a...
You get a point.
It's a 5-bit OSD cat in my position, middle,
and a line, center, and see tiny in the middle.
How do I get that up there?
It's super tiny.
If you change the font, it looks fine.
And you can make it long up big.
But so, I go back here and do like LSS slash S-E slash hose.
And I say 2-2 greater than half.
No.
I say, we'll leave that off for now.
I say, oh, what?
So now LSS is hose.
It's going to succeed in this kind of return.
I say, we cannot show that too.
I'm probably skipping too much stuff here.
So I do LSS as he hosts.
It sends me back the thing.
And now if I do echo, dollar sign question mark,
that is the return value from the last command.
And you see it's a zero, which means it's succeeded.
If I do LSS as he...
It gives me, it gives me back, so I'm very drunk.
And if I do echo, dollar sign hat,
you see it gives me a non-zero number,
which means it failed.
So now if I do something like, uh,
where it gave me a error message,
before it gave it to me on standard error,
instead of standard output,
it just so happens,
it goes right to the terminal,
that's what I was saying.
So if I do this, I'll say,
send everything that you put normally,
send the standard error,
just to dev null.
You just come back with nothing.
So now if I go ahead and stress that on out,
and I, I do an OR with LSD,
CAD,
echo,
error,
type that to always the CAD,
minus U,
and then,
state,
center.
So now when I run it,
it's going to fail.
It won't give me any output on the command line,
but it'll pop up,
here,
on the middle of the screen there.
And by default it stays up for five seconds.
So now if I do one that succeeds,
I just give you better thing
in the right hand side.
So it's just an easy way to get,
like, really cheap error handling.
I mean, from just going on,
you have to make your basket.
It's pretty obvious,
but it's still something that's kind of handy,
I thought.
Okay, this would be a tough one.
Oh well, we've talked about the DVD script before,
and I went to this page,
which is on the link,
and we've come out with something,
a little how-to,
but what I really learned was,
you have to sometimes,
if the thing is grayed out,
and that's why I said I did a brilliant
Google search,
DVD script,
transcode button,
grayed out,
and then I got this answer,
and it says,
it's an active reasoning.
Right, it worked.
Yeah, it worked.
And so then I learned that you have to sometimes
be the press cancel,
and the other thing I tried was,
restarting DVD,
because you saved the project,
and then restart DVD script,
and the transcode button is not grayed out.
And the reason it was important to me,
if you look back in our lug slides,
you'd see how I did a lot of different work with transcode,
and FFM tag,
and plan around with those,
but I didn't need to,
if I just restarted,
or hit cancel,
or restart a DVD rip,
or what it worked fine,
I wouldn't have learned so much,
but,
how's that?
The good results,
actually refer to it,
is ashing the red edge.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, match the,
match the link.
Okay, sorry.
Up to DVD rip.
Yeah, that's the sky.
Yeah, that's red neck.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's not red neck.
Yeah, it's not red neck,
it's not red neck.
I don't match it.
I don't match my links,
I can sort of click.
Yeah, it's pressed the mouse button.
Yeah, that's funny.
Oh, come on.
Okay, match it.
So, that place?
Yeah, so this guy,
he, he, he,
come on, he talked about,
the other thing,
he was playing with the new,
KDE,
and by the way,
I learned a little difference between
Commune 2
and Commune 2
when you put in USB keys,
and you know?
Yeah.
They automatically, you know,
how they automatically mount?
Yeah.
KDE doesn't do that.
And,
and we could show,
but if I brought my stuff to KDE,
he won't,
if you do F this minus L,
I'm slash,
the SDB,
it won't show up anything.
If you do that,
yeah, so it won't show up anything.
On KDE.
Right, on KDE.
If this minus L,
I'm gonna show anything in KDE.
Right.
It's kind of weird that way.
I mean, it was still there.
I was able to mount,
you know,
mount a slash dev SDB1
to this once I made the directory,
but it wouldn't show it up,
and it wouldn't show up
under a DF command either.
Really?
So, let me go with mount.
No, yeah.
I mean, it didn't mount,
and it didn't even show it up.
So, where you knew it was there,
other than,
intuitively,
two mounts.
Yeah,
because I think,
I run a flux box,
and I just,
I purposely didn't start the,
I think it's the known volume manager.
Where?
Mount six stuff,
automatically,
I don't like that happening myself.
You know,
I like hits the volume manager.
Yeah.
It took me a second to figure that out,
because I was,
I had volume on the brain.
Because I use a flux box,
I was trying to,
for a,
kind of, some kind of panel amp
or other than,
or a chain mixer,
I think,
to control the volume.
I was thinking,
is that it?
I don't know the way.
Yeah,
that just controls the mounting.
I don't know what it is.
I think that's interesting, too,
because,
you can see why you wouldn't like that.
But then, if you,
for me,
if you got used to it happening,
and understand that,
it would happen,
the only reason I liked
the,
the,
and we went back in our old looks,
because we went through a bunch of,
uh,
remastering stuff,
and,
remastering with knockings.
And,
I've fallen back to,
uh,
Ubuntu,
only because,
I'm not so good at the remastering,
and new drivers,
for my cell phone,
as modem,
has come up with a new version,
Ubuntu.
So, I'm tolerating,
these things that happen,
that you're not used to,
like,
what you're talking about,
the automatic mounting.
Yes, I conquer,
and I didn't,
I don't like,
when I was digging a USB drive,
having to,
to safely remove it,
from two different places,
I feel like,
that's what happened,
because Parker wouldn't mount it.
But,
no,
you know,
wouldn't mount it.
So, can't you just include,
um,
no auto,
you're asked out?
Yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
um,
well,
I sometimes don't even have
any pages for there.
That's what I'm doing,
I'm all I guess,
if you don't,
if you have a bunch of keys,
don't you have to have
it to tree them?
You have to have an entry for
everything.
Yeah,
if you don't want to do that,
you can use the volume in it,
or whatever.
It's not running,
probably,
maybe,
but,
how do you keep it from running,
I don't want to know.
I don't want to know.
I don't want to know.
OK.
Another thing that I stop a service, you know, I do that.
I see.
That's right, man.
I just have to run.
OK.
Another thing I don't like about that is if you put two or three
drives in, especially if they're partitions different way,
then you're all the way up to this dash seven.
Yeah.
You know, it drives them during the drivers
that they make.
Right?
All right.
Did you do a new tab on this?
No.
I just clicked the link.
You matched it.
You matched it.
I matched it.
I matched the link.
And this is you again, Tom.
Oh, it is?
I'm leaving this.
Oh, shit.
Uh, I know.
OK.
Well, this seems into yesterday or not yesterday.
The last is quality.
Two weeks ago.
Two weeks ago, after we decided that the step was wrong,
and you can look at the procedure.
And maybe we should just look at the procedure.
OK, quick.
This is a USB drive, but yeah, that's right.
And we decided that the procedure was out of order.
I was late for poker because I decided I had to try this
because it's been so much time trying to make it work.
And it didn't work.
It sounds like you can actually do it in quality.
Yeah.
Come on.
It's easier.
Oh.
How do you even have it in here?
No.
The procedure length has a procedure.
The one in the last foot was the procedure.
Is that what you hear?
That was, um, can you give me a brief?
Penal in X.
Yeah.
Penal in X?
Ubuntu.
What's been Linux?
Can I drive Linux?
Yeah, pen drive Linux.
What's the last one?
No, it was the, I could put that thing in the way
that you were on to, you know, put it off.
Oh, yeah.
It's a Linux.
And you're on Linux.
Right.
Yeah, the procedure.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Thanks.
We're going to press it.
It might be on the side of the head in the direction.
How many go?
Time was wasn't with the Casper root.
Yeah, it was.
Oh, what's wrong with this?
I can't see it by that page.
Can we just go to the main side?
Yeah, you can just go to the main side.
It's going to a space.
I don't know if it was the space.
All right.
So scroll down to Kubuntu.
Persistent.
See that right there?
Let's speak number one down.
One down there.
Match that one.
Match it.
What's going on?
All right.
There's a procedure.
And remember what we decided?
If you scroll down further.
And we decided that step 14.
Right there.
See where you did the Syslinics command?
When you do number 12, it mounts the drive.
Because you're in Ubuntu or some Linux that's mounting it.
So you put the USB in.
And then it mounts it.
It doesn't have you unmount it before you run Syslinics.
So what we decided last week was that Syslinics running
on the mount to drive would make this step not work.
So you need possibility.
Well, all right.
That's what we decided was the possibility.
So you need to unmount.
So I did that.
And it didn't work.
It didn't work.
Then I was crushed.
So now you can go back to Syslinics.
Yeah, it's like unmounted.
And then we, and yeah, that's a backlash.
Dwayne told me so that he fixed it.
But anyway, another Google search shows
a Windows fixed procedure.
So there's, if you wanted to do this in Windows,
you could get the thing to work.
But I refuse.
I won't use the Windows procedure.
That's right.
So.
But there it is.
If you wanted to make the work with Windows, you should.
Oh, delete the file line from the root directory.
That way, it's not easy to get in there.
On L3C code and backslash it.
Don't try that on our clients.
So that was, I just concluded that.
And so that's how I ended it up.
And then I ended up saying, if you figure this out,
let me know or, or Dwayne.
And then, so, Dwayne said, Ryan, figure it out.
Yeah, I did right now.
It was a bit lengthy, believe it or not.
For me, the easy fix I'll tell you is,
there's a thing with, like, Syslin is used to be,
and don't quote me on this, but this is kind of just
I have to go right into it.
Syslin used to write to the master group record.
I was hired again.
Something changed to support something to where,
and now it didn't really do that.
It really just wrote the specific block.
On that, you know, like one of the first blocks
in the partition, it wrote a Syslin X dot whatever file.
And then you also had to have a Syslin X dot CFG that you used.
But it never actually made the,
it never actually touches the master group record.
So it doesn't actually make the drive bootable.
So I found another guy who up in his thing,
he was having problems with it.
And he said he could never get it to work using just Syslin X
because it was never touching the master group record.
And that the easy fix for him was, he installed my load,
use Lilo to prepare the master group record for boot.
Oh, yay.
Now that was one aspect of the issues I had with it.
So once I did that, boom, they tried to boot instantly.
I got the menu to come up the kind of the boot to menu.
There were two other problems I had.
One was the, the NINRD that we downloaded off that site.
You know, I had downloaded the KDE for Revex
or whatever they call it.
We're going to go to KDE for something.
If there's a Ubuntu 804 and then there's another one
where it's they have click KDE for and release it
about the same time.
But the NINRD is for off of pin pin drive Linux
is for just a regular 804 of KDE,
whatever version was made without the KDE for.
Now it makes matching versions.
So that was a problem I had.
But in doing some reading, I figured out what they were doing
to recreate the NINRD to make it be persistent.
And so that's what I needed to write it
because it was a little bit like me.
With those instructions, you should be able to,
at least with any idea, anything that's similar to Ubuntu,
you should be able to make a persistent boot
where you must be drive out of it.
Because we're just making a few changes to some of the inscripts.
And I actually changed, like they had in the instructions,
if you remember, they had two partitions on the drive.
One was for the system stuff that you dump the ISL onto.
The other one was supposed to hold like system persistence.
So if you change settings or whatever.
Right, well, I mean, you can actually have more persistent
folders than that if you want.
So if you wanted to, you could actually probably add you.
I didn't do this, but you could probably add users,
update software, and the other thing you want.
Right, with the extra space.
And I didn't use the same names they did.
And I knew, I learned where the NINRD scripts
things had to do change so that they knew how to,
some of the NINRD knew how to mount the other
partitions to use for persistence, that kind of thing.
So I'll write that up.
And I'll send you a link to it.
And I'll send you a link to it so you can put it
in the slides.
But it's kind of laid these for us, the stuff that was involved.
I mean, you could do it in five minutes,
but like I wanted to know why.
You know, when this really changed,
or why it's an issue.
And so it actually took a little bit of re-act to do.
But I got to work.
I did it with Ubuntu, a regular Ubuntu system
that's like that for several.
And I don't actually got one of the USB drive out
of the persistent Ubuntu.
I'm going to work again.
Will it save packages?
Like, if you updated this.
Yeah, you know, I haven't done it, but I actually did.
Hey, check for a link to check for your packages.
And it found them.
It says that I should actually do it about this.
I didn't do it because at the time, I was like,
well, I don't have to redo this if it breaks something.
So I didn't try it.
But that's the next thing on my list.
I just booted up, let it do an update, see if, hey,
you know, everything's updated.
Because that would be really cool.
Because, you know, these two gig thumb drives are cheap.
Yeah, actually, there's an 8 gig for 30 bucks
on the kit yesterday.
Yeah, I mean, I've seen, I've seen the two gig ones
for like about a four pack, you know, 50 bucks.
So I didn't, since I've been reading it,
reading it right into it a lot,
and we're going to have to pair it so they're cheap now.
You know, so you could, you know,
you probably wouldn't wear one out in the time
the next distribution came out that you wanted to use.
So you could toss that out with you, you know.
Right.
You know, the perfect files, you know,
every time you do a new one, it pops at me.
So I looked at the virtual box install procedure.
Thinking like, if you could do this and you,
but you have to reboot to make the install work
for virtual box in a boot, there's a reboot step.
So the reason I wanted to know that was if I could
save a VM on the eight gig drive,
and I couldn't get the persistent for work with the script,
if I could get virtual box to load,
then I could have a VM saved and it would, it would work.
But since you have to have the reboot
without the persistent feature, forget it.
Yeah.
I did the other day just to see if it could work.
I was kind of skeptical of it, really, but I said,
I think the rest of it is my regular hard drive.
I took the internal hard drive out of that laptop
and I installed what we did on that USB drive,
but I was plugged in.
Huh?
And you come back to find no problem
with the USB drive plug-in for another machine.
It's the same hard drive for a work time.
So you did an install?
A regular install, right?
You know what I mean?
Why didn't that work in a key?
Because I tried to as a key.
The spirits.
I was skeptical.
They had to make some spirits on this name.
And that goes back to those links, no matter what.
Trying to use a discount for spirits.
No way, it worked for me, so.
How much time did they make spirits?
It was, it's true, it's party.
No, it wasn't, they were low.
All right.
OK, so this thing is,
using image magic to make like stencils
for painting on things.
And so, so basically let's see, let's see here.
This page right here, this got a lot of information about it.
And basically, you know, you won't want some text.
It's an image, possibly an image on an image you create
with this image magic.
We use the convert program, or this is what I'm using.
And I'm sure you probably can use other things.
But he goes through, instead of how to put simple labels,
and then change the font on that, and put this,
you know, all these different colors.
But we're going to do a stencil without it
on something pretty, pretty simple.
But I mean, this is a pretty long page.
You see the scroll bar is still way up there,
so it needs to be like 12 lines and out of the office.
Anyway, the link is there.
And so, if you want to look for some reference,
I mean, that's straight off the image magic website
or the slash usage.
But it's just a good, there's so much information there.
I just forgot to put it on that one page.
It is good for a real name.
The other thing is, once you start doing it,
if you're going to want some fonts, this web page
will list of the publicity page.
It has a bunch of thousands of them on font,
and a bunch of them.
And if you want to see, I'm going to have
a magic stop on this page.
Let's do that one right here.
Magic in his words is simply,
I don't know, it's like, oh my gosh.
You can get all the screen in the spot,
you know, everything.
And I don't know how to do it.
It's just, I don't know, I think it's a good thing.
I just installed this one yesterday, so.
This is like a joke for a minute.
I think I'll all be in the cell.
You know, the work.
Yeah, exactly.
I'm going to do a box and wait for it to take two minutes.
It's like two ice cubes.
It takes like a third or a half a window.
This would be the back.
It would come back.
But yeah.
But something good could be used to it.
But I'm going to be back.
So if you want to see which font is already available,
you can do this.
This is the command we're using as part of the image magic.
Magic package.
And you can say, my list is tight.
Now, I read, because I think this page says,
my list is fine.
But that is for a certain newer version of image magic.
So it doesn't work.
It doesn't work.
It doesn't work.
It doesn't work.
You have to.
It won't work.
Should.
Okay.
Okay.
All right.
I'm going to put it on list.
The ones that are available already.
And then you can add more.
And there's documentation on where to put them.
And that kind of thing.
I'm not sure if I never added any.
So.
64%.
Okay.
So we'll just take it off.
So the first thing I was going to do is make a simple one.
Just something in the middle of the page.
So I do convert.
Give it a canvas size.
320 by 240.
And this thing is.
I'm going to put it on top of you.
That's your mom booty code.
Can you bring it back a little bit?
Yes.
Mom booty.
Mom booty.
I'm calling daddy.
Look at your mom.
Daddy.
That's your mom's hand.
I can't believe that.
Okay.
So.
So you give it a few.
The size of your hand is.
This right here.
It's going to be a wow.
And the best thing I can find is just from examples.
I couldn't find it in the man page.
But it's like some key thing to say this is a light canvas.
And you can give it a color.
You know why.
and you can give it a color, you know, wide.
I might even give it an X or something like that for color.
But I'm not, anyway, you can get by with this,
because if we're doing stencils pretty much,
you won't wide, but I kind of think you've been cutting it out.
You can give it the font.
You can give it the point size here,
which is the font size and point.
And then I give it this minus draw,
and I start giving it this string from there to there of things I wanted to do.
So I wanted to put text at the X 20 Y 140.
So over 20 down 140, I wanted to write the word,
hell of a stencil, and have that a single close.
And then this is my output font, test that gift.
And so what that gives you is this thing.
It's just a little thumbnail.
Oh, it's on a white background.
It's just, the image is really only right here.
But it's on a white background.
So it just blends into the red, the control bay, the control bay.
There you go, there you go.
So that puts that up there, of course.
I just want to find one of those.
So that was the simple example.
And so now a little bit of something different.
So I say give it a thousand, about 250 white background.
If that font, and I'm making it bold,
so you get a chunkier letter, point size 155, I say draw.
And the first thing I do is draw an image.
And I'm going to say draw it over everything on there.
So like if you had text already there,
this thing would be over the top of the text and put it on there, whatever.
So I would say draw the image.
And I have four numbers for it.
770 is over X 4.
And so you see it's 1,000 wide, and put it over 770 pixels.
0 is at the top.
And I tell it to be 200 by 250.
So it'll stretch and kind of skew the image to fit what you want.
And then there's the image.
And it's open to upspensal.png.
And then I'll just start right in with the next command text.
10175bclog.info.
And then give it out, put it in there.
You see that it's coming back in.
And so it just jams out.
So you can see you could actually make a web service or something.
You can generate an image on the floor.
So that puts this thing in the house.
It can go away, just make it up.
That's the full size of that image.
So it's actually part of that text is?
No, actually the image has a little bit of image that's actually screwed up.
I just got it off with good images.
So is this the answer to your rule?
No, not quite.
I mean, not much of it.
OK, so this one.
This one.
There it is.
So I want to show you that you can rotate text for this.
So this one, I say, it's about 200.
200 size, 175 draw.
And so now the first thing I do is I draw the image.
OK, thank you.
Thank you.
I actually touched it off the floor screen and it's all my problem.
So I draw the image over 600, but 600 over 10 down, 175 by 200, you see it there.
And it's almost like you have this drawing mechanism.
And so it's like you can imagine I just rotated my drawing thing 180 degrees.
And now I'm going to put text down, I'm going to say.
And it gets really screwy.
You're going to play around with the coordinates.
And I may be doing something wrong, but this is the only way I can get it to work.
So you start doing backwards coordinates and all.
And it is really tacked up.
I mean, this works.
But you're going to play around with it.
You're going to find yourself doing minus 40, minus 20, minus 30 or plus 10.
And it'll be all over the place.
But you're going to play around with it to start figuring it out.
So I rotate it 180 degrees.
So that makes that upside down, what's up with the load upside down.
And now I left it at 180 degrees outside.
I had to rotate it around 100 degrees back.
And then put the text to the line.
Put it down to the load line again.
And so you can settle with that.
So you can do all kinds of crazy stuff.
I mean, there's just so much stuff you can do with any magic.
It's ridiculous.
All for making man life.
And maybe not everybody wants to draw stuff on a man life.
But it can be useful sometimes.
If you had your screw up for you under the changes banner all the time, something like that.
So that was pretty much that.
The videos that would have been good to me to give to.
Yeah, you could have done it.
Yeah, you could have done all the animation and stuff like that too.
So what I did is I took and I printed it out on this folder because of this thing.
So I printed it out on paper first and it was a little like that.
And then you kind of want to print one out on paper and figure it out.
Because now it's kind of tricky to figure out what you're going to cut out.
Because you can't cut out everything.
And there's got to be something left for the stencil.
So I'd say print it out on paper first and kind of figure out what you're doing.
And then I took it printed out on a transparency and then you cut that one out.
And then you can, it depends on if you want to reuse it.
If you're going to make a lot of them, you want a transparency because then the paint will
soak into it.
If you're going to do one, you can actually print it out like this and you can spray glue
the back of it and stick it on whatever and then it'll hold all those little pieces
down so you get a real sharp edge and stuff.
And the X of the shirt is right over there.
Oh, it's going to stick.
That's why it's shirt.
The model looks really graphing because that's the first time I've ever done it.
I did it with this thing.
And I didn't even hold it down.
I was just going to lay this thing on the T-shirt first.
Even with a brush.
So you can spray it and it'd be better and all that stuff.
So now Tom can open a T-shirt shop and make it an uncool T-shirt.
And there you go.
So I have these.
Oh, I've opted this little.
That's the last one.
That's the last one.
Oh, I like that.
Where's the hats?
Yeah.
So this is a T-shirt paint, fabric paint.
And I just said to watch the shirts first, first, put cardboard between the, like you're
going to paint the front side, stick to cardboard between it.
So then soak through into the other side of the shirt.
If I wanted to do coats, dry flat for four hours.
And then after four hours, you hold an iron about a half inch above it.
And it says until paint appears textured, avoid oversteaming.
And then it says it can be washed after standing too long.
And it should last for quite a few washes to grow.
And all of this at that Joanne fabrics.
And the girl there told me that her kids did it.
And she'd wash it 25 times.
Did you run that transparency through your T-shirt?
Yeah, I did.
I didn't know she did it.
So the NMC I ran her for the day.
Are you serious?
Yeah.
And they have a whole pack of transparency up there.
Actually, they have a whole big old.
Okay.
A pack of transparency up there.
Well, what do you use a pen knife?
Yeah.
Exactly.
I'll put it on my hand.
Let me get it on one mark for a couple of bugs or whatever.
That is awesome.
So, you know, you can do, they have this stuff in spray.
They have a foam.
Actually, they say the foam is the best I did of brush, which probably foam working up there.
Anyway.
So, that's cool.
I have, this is another transparency.
If anybody had to cut that out, there's some printouts.
So, this image here is that exact image from the slide before the previous stuff.
You should do one just like that.
Yeah, you should do one.
It's there, man.
You can do that.
Yeah, it's there.
You have to do it.
That would be pretty cool.
I'll put it on the hat.
Let's see.
Okay.
Check that out.
Yeah.
This image is the actual image I printed out.
I mean, that is that one.
That's awesome.
So, if you want to do one, you can just take that image and print it out.
That's cool.
So, actually, I got, I got t-shirts.
They have that have all black.
So, I got extra large and large t-shirts.
What do you want me to do?
You can do like a series.
Yeah.
I got paint, if you want to take some paint on.
And I see you might be your own.
I see you, I'm going to wait for you.
You just have a t-shirt part.
Make sure, make sure, make sure.
Make sure, make sure, make sure, make sure.
These are extra large and these are large.
So, you know, you grab one, if you want, if you want to do it now,
you want to do it later.
If you want to cut out this, if you want to take that home or whatever.
I only got three things to paint.
They're only a couple bucks piece or like $1.50 piece.
So, you're welcome to do all my got stuff.
Or, you just want to take one coin.
I think it's easy.
Or, you know, somebody can take this.
Or, if you, you know, I don't know about spray glue and this on a t-shirt.
You probably would never get a spray glue off.
But they do.
Some people use those.
Take the tape off.
Try to make it just have glue.
Yeah, of course.
All right.
Those little stuff in the toes kind of looks a little out.
And if you look at that shirt where it flows, it's pretty ugly.
But it's far away.
It's not too bad.
So, yeah, I'll have a t-shirt and make it a little t-shirt.
But I think that's all I had pretty much.
That's really actually bad.
It's actually good too.
It's really good.
It got good protection to it.
You can really wash this.
I mean, that's not, you can't put it around.
That's where it is.
And if you didn't sit it down, then like I said, the outside will be fine.
I think you'll see it's one way to attempt to borrow this.
I designed this one.
And then you just open it.
And then you just open it.
And then you just open it.
And then you just open it.
Yeah, exactly.
And then you just open it.
And then you just open it.
And then you just open it.
And then you just open it.
And then you just open it.
And then you just open it.
And then you just open it.
And then you just open it.
And then you just open it.
You just open it up.
That's where you cut it out.
And then you just open it.
And then you just open it.
And then you just open it.
You just open it up.
And then you just open it.
So right here's the button, right, but you know what?
It's like the tail of this one there.
Yeah, you can open it up.
You can simply open it up.
But it's the tail, and then you have something around.
And then that's where you cut it out.
Then there's the tail of this one.
and the drawings and stuff, which is by drawing the sheet back there.
So they do feel drawn and they have to fill up their stuff for the slides there.
So she used some stuff.
Another thing is, as you can see, the letters that have a disconnected piece in the middle,
I saved them out, but I knew it was going to look like crap, and they were like,
I don't have time.
You could stick them in there if you wanted to.
It's just stuff that on all the websites I've read.
Did you stick it?
Yeah, it's like in a hole.
Yeah, it's a double-stick thing, but I'll stick it back on there.
It's a little downstairs, and you said you used for it.
You got it in the hole, by the way.
I used the hat.
That's very cool.
It is cool.
I wanted to do t-shirts for us, and just never did.
And I wanted to do t-shirts on my own.
We got loads of t-shirts out there.
They're like, man, that's a game.
That's a game, man.
It's pulled over.
I love you, bro.
Sure, that was it.
Never, you know those bikers, right?
It's not a great thing.
Isn't it helped to take a window smile?
Oh, like?
It could be.
It could be.
It could be.
Oh, that's what it is.
It's a European way, they say it.
It's probably the worst way, I'll probably do it.
I think it came with them, you know?
I think it, huh?
Yeah, it is.
It might be like a common name, or something, I don't know.
But yeah, I've seen that before, too.
But they wouldn't have, I don't think they would have backed it,
but I'm sure they wouldn't have backed it.
They're strict.
They're strict.
Yeah, they wouldn't have backed it to it.
Yeah, they wouldn't have backed it to it.
Yeah, they wouldn't have backed it to it.
That's cool.
Thank you for listening to Haftler Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net.
She'll head on over to C-A-R-O dot N-E-C for all of her students.
Thank you.
Thank you.
