Episode: 89
Title: HPR0089: Notacon Wrapup
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0089/hpr0089.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 11:22:01

---

.
This is HackerPublicRadio, today your hosts are DOSMAN and Shane and we're going to talk
a little bit about what happened at Nauticon this year, what we did for the event and some
other stuff, lockpicking, other stuff that we did also.
Some real famous artwork that totally didn't get voted up, but it should have been.
Yes, George had some tremendous artwork, gosh, I don't even think I could describe it.
I won't even try, maybe we can post it in the show, no, there we go, that would be perfect.
Yeah, so I guess Nauticon happened the first week in April this year.
We will Shane did a bunch of work leading up for the froggy and tiger, asked us if we
were going to be doing the lockpicking pogo to this year and we kind of got together and
said, yeah, okay, and what all did you do for the pogo to this year?
Well, the design idea started last year, actually, while I was at DevCon's lockpicking
village, and I thought, wow, this is going to be a royal pain if somebody comes along
like what happened at Nauticon this year and comes along and just attacks a lock with
such fury that they break it immediately.
And you know, how are they going to really change that out?
So when I ended up moving out here and started actually being a part of a group and all,
I looked at designing something that would be modular, that would vaguely travel well
and that could have stuff easily changed out on it.
So being that I spent a lot of time in Japan, I started out by making some Tori gates,
which are the gates that you see in front of most temples.
And I took those, I made, I made wall pieces that go in the centerpiece, there's two slats
per gate, and those are held in with, with eye bolts, and you just yank the eye bolts
out and you can swap those planks out pretty much however you want to do that.
And on the eye bolts, we had padlocks and then the walls themselves, there were three
locks each.
And the wall is kind of progressed from really easy to sort of easy to nobody opened any
lock on this wall.
And you know, we were cool, we managed to open up one of the locks on the wall, but not
while I was actually in the wall.
And then there was another lock that everybody was convinced was broken, but I opened it,
so it's not broken.
It's still there, too.
Boom, it's open.
Yeah, the thing you've been working on for the last two hours, sorry about you.
It works.
Yeah, we're really sorry if you're listening, but that was funny.
I did manage to pull out about four tons of dust that came off of all the pins, so they
probably don't really look like pins inside of there anymore, was everybody attacking
them.
Yes, yes.
A lot of good damage on the locks.
Gosh, they've got pictures up.
Yes, yes, on the Bloomington Fools website, we of course are a locks board group, this
fraternal order of locks board.
And of course, based out of the city of Bloomington, Indiana, we have BloomingtonFools.org and
we've got a couple photos up there.
You can also just go to Flickr and look up for a Nodicon 5 2008 photos.
Make sure you skip that one guy that took a bunch of scenery pictures and tagged it with
Nodicon.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Dush.
So yeah, yeah, so you spent a lot of time on this leading up to Nodicon.
I spent a lot of time on it on my weekends and everything.
It's stained and it's rubbed with Dutch oil and I made some shingles and stuff like that.
But I don't know, it was a fun project for me.
It was much more fun than standing down on my kitchen cabinets and restaining those.
But the part that really we were showing out for is because Dotsman gave a great and
well-received talk.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yeah.
I actually gave a talk.
This was my first con that I've actually given a talk at and I talked about.
My talk was entitled something like mechanic or lockpicking into the new frontier for
mechanical to electronic locks or something.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Something like that.
And I talked basically a basic primer on lockpicking and then went into some high security
locks and then talked about some electronic lock systems that I've built devices for that
unlock them and talked about some things I'd like to get my hands on like cyber lock.
If anyone has a cyber lock, I'd love to get ahold of any Dotsman at packets nippers.org
and I'll reimburse you handsomely or at least in some form or fashion.
So anyway, that seemed to be well-received and that was really fun getting to do that
and get to talk to some of the people that I first saw a presentation on lockpicking
from that came up and you know gave me a congrats on all that like Jimmy Chan and Colonel
Panic and Idal, other folks.
So some of the other stuff leading up to NaughtyCon, George and Zach put in a lot of time working
on some music for the block party.
We made that reference about George's artworks, stunning the audience.
He's had a wow photos submission and that was a very the the tamest picture of his and it really did
stun everybody.
I don't think that I mean everybody had a wisecrack for everything else but this because
really nothing really top the wisecrack that was the artwork in the first place.
Yes, yes and for those I guess I should back up a little bit.
For those that might not be aware, for the last two years now Jason Scott and Radman
have been hosting something called Block Party at NaughtyCon.
It's a part of the same event and it's basically a hair sort of an homage to the old demo
scene and they have all kinds of entries you could do write a program that does visual
and audio stuff on your Commodore or on something using the latest you know programming
framework for X86 architecture or whatever you want to program for and then there's also
there were like photography, compos, music, different types of music, eight-bit, streaming
music, modern, electronic but the programming was the big deal with that.
There was really some awesome stuff out there I was really good to see a lot of people
turn out and a lot of people just throw their stuff out there you know whether or not it
was a centaur with a goatee face or if it was somebody's great picture that they had
taken or if it was just some crazy music that was developed it's that type of thing is
just way beyond me you know I can stick to something that's about it.
And there were some great people from that scene there.
Some of the people I never heard of but a couple of them I was familiar with like a
trickster who did the full motion video on an XT thing that makes makes slash odd or some
side every every couple of months.
He had another entry this year there was Jerry Ellsworth who I think is really cool that
it was fairly well known in the Commodore scene for well designing her own Commodore board
using FPGA's and other equipment just doing lots of cool stuff with Commodore she designed
the D TV Commodore game joystick for home shopping network which was basically a Commodore
inside a joystick one of those type of game systems and oh yeah if you open it up there's
like you know a place where you can solder and keyboard jack and all that kind of stuff
on there so it's sort of like a sort of hiding and sneaking and modern Commodore out to
the masses and for the tinkers that want to mess with them.
So anyway lots of cool people lots of good things out there going on.
So I guess to go back into the lock picking aspect deviant olem of tool was there also
in the lock picking pagoda and was just doing a kickass job with the Gringo Warrior and Gringo
were I don't you want to talk about that a little bit? I can. Gringo Warrior is essentially
a scenario challenge that finds you getting down to Tijuana with fine Dan Kaminsky and waking
up being harassed by people that may or may not be law enforcement but your handcuffed
in a room and they want your money and they're going to give you a little while to think
about it. So in the process they neglected to take your lock picks away from you. So the
scenario starts out with you and handcuffs and there are see there's four other positions
that you have to go through that we don't necessarily have to go through them all but you've
got a door lock you need to pick then there is a cabinet lock and then a dead bolt and
after that you have to go through a car lock and the cabinet and the car lock are optional
as far as how far you get away but this is all scored on cool points and originality
and difficulty as there's three sets of locks that you can choose from at each station.
It's a very strong scoring system for various levels depending on how you start out with
the handcuffs there's three or four different positions you can start out with and the more
difficult position you start out and get you more points and it's also a five minute you have
five minutes to do this entire course so time is also a factor as well as creativity and you know
how difficult of each lock that you pick. Neither of us won. We tried but there was a guy
he was a cool guy that was hanging out at the lock picking pagoda last year not a con 2007
Dave Klingman and he flew through the course in like a minute and a half or a minute. He went
through he had his handcuffs I think he had him behind his back do you do double lock behind
his back or just behind his back. I don't know it was at least behind his back it was behind his
back I can't remember if they were double locked or not but he got out of that and went through all
the more difficult locks nobody actually went through the most difficult door lock or through
the most difficult padlock because it was a new lock that isn't quite the same but I'm not going
to talk about that one too much. Yeah yeah I don't know when I did it let's see my first run I made
it in three minutes and one second I believe and I just did the medium locks all the way across
I may have done one hard lock maybe the cabinet lock yeah you would be pretty good and I for early
on I was doing pretty good I think I had 404 points 404 yeah you but obviously since I was giving
a talk on lock picking it was definitely necessary to disqualify me from the prize which I think
quite reasonable I was just happy that since I was giving a talk on picking I I didn't suck it
up on the corners oh what were the prizes that Deviant had oh man I cannot remember the artist name
but he had two really cool prints from a British artist I want to say if I'm wrong on any of this
don't blame me but there were some really cool shots from a graffiti artist that that he just
kind of transposed into other situations one of them was a one of the billions of cameras that's
around London it was pointed at a wall and he had spray painted what are you looking at on the wall
that was pretty good having been through he threw a couple of times and seen myself way too often
um yeah it's just it's just creepy I'm only about through Glasgow it's the other
airport I think I went through the other one and I was rushed all the way through so I didn't
get chance to check out the security cameras or do anything that are you're not missing anything
it's all on tape somewhere if you want to see it again I'm sure sure I'm sure I'll be
imprisoned at some point for something and I'll get to see all this that is not a good admission
of any kind of guilt or whatsoever so yeah so gosh not a con was a blast um Shane was a lock
picking pagoda room pretty much the entire weekend yeah I have no idea actually what happened
not a con aside from what three of them I did go see the block party judging but that's because
it was at three in the morning and everybody else wanted to as well the first night we went back
to go make sure that nobody thought that it would be funny to pick the lock to the pagoda room and
steal all of our stuff and yeah we had the room open for about five minutes and then the room was
full again so we we stayed there for another three or four hours yeah yeah miss some cool people in
that time that was uh definitely as kind of nice and relaxed there but uh finally around two
thirty or three we had just had to shut it down we it was it was a quite a long Friday uh but it
was definitely cool um and oh yeah um speaking of the three a.m. demo awards Jason Scott if you're
listening I'd really like to see the demos because I think I was way too intoxicated at that point
I just cannot remember any of the demos I saw some photos that seemed to possibly jog some
memories for me on flicker but no video of that so yeah I don't remember any of the demos that I
saw I just remember um when the people won and thinking hmm I think I saw that but yeah after
afterwards we had conversations about that and um none of us seemed to be able to remember
what exactly happened yeah yeah so so demo scene dot us is the block party site so at some point
they're they're supposed to be posting the uh uh all the demos all the entries for all the
compos on there so hopefully soon it's not like Jason Scott's not busy or anything making
two or documentary's and running block party and whatever else he does so what like we like we
all are busy or something get on it so gosh let's see we saw the award ceremony Sunday uh
saw heck I don't know will happen wow I don't uh some some guy ran into my car oh yeah that was
nice that was great um it's not not very hacker-esque but I will tell you that some people are
still dumb enough to put their socials on their on their driver's license so guy in the big white
Lincoln don't know what to tell you yeah oh man oh yeah well I didn't have to drive this year
I suppose but anyway I'll go in that um yeah so Zach and George did a we see for the the packet
team packet sniffers entry uh the the song that Zach and George made and I had a small contribution
towards um with a little voiceover that I did came in second place for the the music entry
and uh so that was really fun and a lot very cool and who won first place on that I have no idea
was that one that uh fat man wonder was that a different one probably fat man and Jerry
yeah I know uh there was one that the fat man did win and well you know some people do have a certain
amount of experience over others and considering he was showing off all the professional stuff he
does for like big budget movies are relatively big budget movies that's movies with a budget
movies with a budget absolutely that's not too unexpected but
oh all right so I guess uh I don't know there's not a whole lot more I guess I have that we have
to talk about it not a con there are lots of things that went on oh yeah
anyone if you if you went to not a con and you saw the person dancing around
um and the clean suit um I'll drop some docs on Zach that that was Zach by the way
if you didn't know that I all the photos I saw of that they said huh some guy in a clean suit we
have no idea who it was that yeah he needs credit for that I've never seen somebody bring so many
costumes to one event before that was quite intrigued go figure no comment I'm sorry Zach
you'll be able to defend yourself in another episode of hacker public radio here um I'm sure
so future stuff uh next year's not a con I don't know what'll happen but we might have bigger
and even better things going on we are we uh started working on our plans for our next
device that we're gonna unveil more than likely a not a con next year uh for a mixed media
challenge uh we're also thinking to have some speed picking competitions and a few other things
added to the pickup because it was just overwhelming how many people showed up in the first place
so uh please come back again yes we won't sell out of everything this time I think I think uh
the future is very very promising for lock picking and not a con so um I don't know if there's
anything else you can think of I think we go ahead and start wrapping up this episode yeah I
know that we're gonna uh work on filming the uh yes the re-installation of the Ocho
into my house so yes we have a new victim who's willing to uh put up the uh the Ocho at his place
since we had to take it down for since Zach moved away um which uh one of the if you're not
familiar with that one of the earlier episodes of hacker public radio we we discussed the Ocho
in part 15 a.m. broadcasting um I you should just probably you could search for part 15 that'll
find it um that's what I did you know so that's about it eventually there's gonna be another
package in every episode whether does man likes it or not yeah yeah uh we'll we'll I don't know
we've been saying it for years but I think it might become a reality this time we've got some
some enthusiasm again to I get some stuff going and uh we're gonna what we'll have in episode six
sometime in the relatively near future that means in the next year yeah um all right well I
guess uh I've been Dawesman I'm Shane and uh this is a hacker public radio and always remember if
you want to host an episode uh just go to the hacker public radio dot org site and you can get a
hold of uh enigma or someone there that you so you can go ahead and you know record an episode get
it submitted uh we'll get you hooked up um anyone can contribute content it's a fun way to build your
your personal speaking skills and other just talking about cool stuff that other technologists
and hackers might like so I so I guess that's it and I'm sorry that's about it
and we'll talk to you next time thank you for listening to hacker public radio
hpr sponsored by caro dot net so head on over to caro dot anything for all of us
