Episode: 522
Title: HPR0522: Piratprat Ep 02
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0522/hpr0522.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 22:23:51

---

.
.
That's episode two in Hacker Public Radio.
We've got the election fraud now in the pirate parking.
Yes, sadly, someone cheated in the elections.
And can you describe how the cheating was done?
Someone was able to register members somehow.
I don't know exactly how that went about and used about 40 members, I think,
to vote for himself to the lists for the election.
So it was that money?
Yes, from what I've read, it was about 40 that they discovered.
It was, had voted from the same IP address.
Yes, Mark Klamberg comments on it and thinks that it's not so good
at the pirate parking logs IP number considering that we don't want IP numbers to be logged.
Yes, I was a bit puzzled by that myself.
But I assume you have to agree to that somehow.
I didn't see that, but so it's a bit strange because we can get around that anyway
by using different IPs.
Yes, it's not a very short way to discover from because legitimate users can't have the same IP address.
Yes, and those who were for using IPs said that it was an effective way
and calling up people to ask if they had registered themselves,
would be too expensive with 50,000 numbers and not much money.
Well, it's sort of an expense you have to take.
If you want to protect against fraud and...
And reasonably you would like to protect against such fraud.
I've thought about it a bit and you could save a lot by only calling those who voted
because we need to keep a register of who has voted anyway.
That seems reasonable.
Politics is a trust business.
If you don't have the public trust even though you have one, it's hard to legitimize.
Yes.
But we can tell what happened to the person, who did this.
Yes, he resigned from all positions in the party and he helped in resolving the problem.
I think he even left the party.
He left the party too.
And it was regretful.
It was very sorry.
I don't really understand how he thought this sort of thing could fly.
Well, it has something that has happened in every party.
Yes, absolutely.
And it was discovered on Saturday and on Monday it was published.
I didn't try to hide it anyway.
I think it was handled very well.
Very well, except that this IP number logging.
That's another discussion that has to be made, I think.
So, what's that all for today?
As I think so.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
