Episode: 703
Title: HPR0703: My Computer History
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0703/hpr0703.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 01:12:01

---

.
Hello, this is Bob Evans, and this is the very first podcast I've ever made. I've been a podcast listener for about five years, listened to lots of Linux ones, and even some that aren't around anymore, unfortunately.
And including HPR, I don't consider it a Linux podcast, but really just general geek stuff, and it's very educational.
And recently, someone's been talking about early days of computing, and it's like the beginning of the PC days.
But I'm a bit of an older guy, and my early days of computing go back to the 1960s, when they were doing time sharing in my high school, and they had a terminal there on this service called Rapid Data, they were doing Fortran.
And that was something I had never seen before. I was like, wow, this stuff looks interesting.
And I've been playing with computers since then. A couple of years later, I was still in high school.
They got a computer as big as a desk, very, very unpowerful computer. I mean, 4,000 memory locations, what we might call a mini computer today.
Did you act 3080, I think, was the model. And if you search on a search engine, you'll find that someone's got a webpage up describing that machine, and maybe even an emulator for that machine.
And that's where I really got into programming, writing games. We used to use paper tape to store our data.
It was quite primitive, but I had such a strong amount of enjoyment from it that I still have some of those paper tapes.
On, later on, I got into the working world, and I used computers by digital equipment, mini computers, again, PDP 11.
The digital had about 12 different operating systems for that computer. I had a 16-bit word.
And it was actually quite powerful, but the high-end ones, you could have people on dumb terminals, maybe 100 of them hooked up.
And the low-end ones was a single user computer. We used a lot for process control, as well as interactive applications, early point-of-sale terminal systems, things like that.
I ended up, because I liked that computer so much working for digital, I spent 22 years in their employee, and as things were looking like digital was going away,
and I knew their proprietary operating systems, RSX, VMS, VMS, very well. But there's got to be some life after death.
Around the mid-1990s, I happened to be in a computer store, and I grabbed a book, which was like, you know, some discontinued book.
And it actually had a slackware disk inside, and how to install and run slackware. And it's like, wow, I think this is very fun and useful to learn.
It was kind of primitive, getting ex-going was a big, big challenge in 1995, but I've been playing with Linux more and more since then, and today finally I've got a job that's 100% Linux.
So, I think that's all I'll share with you for now, and it's been a pleasure talking to you.
I'll sign off from our visit today at the Northeast New Linux Fest.
Thank you for listening to HACRA Public Radio.
We are sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over to C-A-R-O dot N-E-T for all of us here.
Thank you very much.
