Episode: 683
Title: HPR0683: Xorg GSoC call for students
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0683/hpr0683.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 00:48:09

---

Have a great night.
Hey everybody, this is Marcos. This is like my tenth attempt at recording my first
hacker public radio podcast, so bear with me please. Thanks to Ken Fallon, all those
guys who are setting all this up, it's really cool. I like it and I'm hoping this won't
be my last contribution, my last podcast. I am here to talk a little bit about Xorg and
the Google Summer of Code projects. So as most of you probably know, X.org is the graphical
windowing system that's underneath the GUI on Linux, BSD's, Unix, plenty, plenty of
computers use it and you probably all don't even realize what it is exactly. Okay, that's
kind of stupid. Anyway, yeah, so I'm here to contribute students, specifically college
students or just any students over the age of 18. We have projects that the Xorg needs
help with, things like Wayland for any of you following X-Project. Wayland is potentially
the next X-12. We have need work on color management, we've got some gallium, there's a H-264
decoder we need some help with, we've got gallium state trackers, we've got OpenGL work,
we've got multi-GPU support, some input support for XCB, we've got lots of things that need
to be done. So if you're interested in helping out at an open source project or X specifically,
come look us up. You can find us on the mailing list or on the IRC channel, both of which
you can find from X's main page, main website page, www.x.org. The IRC channel is at freeno.net
hash XORG and that's on the main page. So, anyway, if you're not a student and you still
want to help out, either specifically X or just a project in general, that's great too. A lot
of, there's a lot of nonocoders that want to help and your help is needed and it's valuable.
So don't be shy just because you're not a coder. That's perfectly cool. We have people who can
mentor you, bring you up to speed, lots of things to get you going, you know, hook up with
them and newbies. So, you guys can help each other out. There's lots of options for non-coders
to help out. If you're not a coder and you're not really that interested in being one but you
still want to help out, that's cool too. I myself work on my documentation. Maybe someday I'll be
a developer, but not right now. Right now, I'm trying to round up the documentation. So,
documentation doesn't thrill you. There's things like build systems, there's things like the
tenor box, which is the nightly build, I guess it's a build system. There's plenty of other work
to do and all of it is appreciated. So, please don't be shy, please come look at, help us out.
Again, that's www.x.org. You can also send me an email in private if you want. My email just
is marcoz at osource.org. That's m-a-r-c-o-z-at-o-s-o-u-r-c-e.org. Don't be shy. I think I've got
everything. So, anyway, thanks and I hope to talk to some of you. Bye.
Thank you for listening to Hack the Public Radio. HPR is sponsored by caro.net. So, head on over to
all your questions.
