Episode: 897
Title: HPR0897: 2011-2012 Hacker Public Radio New Year's Eve Part 7/8 (The Grand Finale)
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0897/hpr0897.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 04:35:49

---

You
So when I came in right now, you're talking about, well, women geeks or, you know, women
who are involved in open source and free software.
Yep.
The goodest, the goodest.
Why?
I don't know.
I guess I should probably contribute.
I was actually introduced to Linux by my girlfriend back in 1997.
And now you're a sysadmin of a dedicated hosting company.
So I guess it worked out.
Yeah.
I guess it worked out.
Yeah.
What happened to her?
She got into GIS stuff.
She was really, I mean, she's one of the few female geeks that talked about computers
more than I did, I guess, is all I can say.
She, I mean, we are both in the same computer science class together.
And then she found out about Linux and she was like, hey, we should check out this Linux
thing and, and so on.
And it was in her dorm room that I first saw a Linux console for the first time.
And we started up pine and that was the most romantic story of her Delta, right?
You're making me cry, stop it.
It really is Peter 64 is in the chat room.
He's asking if she's got a brother, but I mean, no, I think she was an only child.
And as I always say, my wife actually was a computer science major and she can program
an assembly language.
And I can't.
And I always say that she uses Emax and I use Vi and we both sleep in the same bed unless
she's swapping.
Oh, that is so bad.
You do not let her hear you said that.
No, she's pretty cool about it.
That could be the funniest thing it's been said, Joe.
Yeah, that's pretty good.
Yeah.
That was good.
I use both.
I go both ways.
I'm you.
I just came back for the punchline there and I didn't quite catch the set up, so I'm
going to have to listen to the audio cast from the set up.
Yes.
Another listener.
Another listener.
No, my wife, to my wife's credit, she's like the, you know, the best geek's wife ever.
It was just a few days ago, she was actually saying, hey, would you like to go to a Star Trek
convention?
Oh, nice.
You know, that's one step away from see that a dude dressed as a cling on.
He's hot.
No, no, no, see that dude dressed as a cling on.
He's hotter than you.
Oh.
Yes, sadly, the clothes don't make the man.
He's such a nice head prosthetic.
What's the average size of a cling on's cock?
Go ahead.
Oh, my, what is it?
I don't know.
I don't know.
I take it as a joke to be like this for a, for a little while, ain't it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It sounds like I joined just at the right time, but yeah, well, I'd say you're a few minutes
too late, Peter, because we were expecting you to drag it down.
I'm glad to hear you.
I was just getting up to go to work when you used legs were keeping off this morning.
I would have loved to have popped on then, but unfortunately, I had to go into Mason
grass at about four o'clock this morning.
Right on.
Right on.
How's the new year treating you?
You're 2012.
Some of us are still in 2011.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I sat up until one minute past 12 with my wife just to say the new year in, and
I think that's about as long as I lasted.
As soon as the clock ticked over 12, I think I started snoring, recording for my wife.
That's what happened.
Right.
I need to ask you, Peter, is there a betting pool for when the first RC helicopter crash
of 2012 is going to be?
I can tell you, it happened about 20 minutes after I got home.
Ah!
There you go.
I started off the new year exactly the same as the old one finished with a RC helicopter crash.
Actually, I had a friend up here the other day yesterday who can actually fly the bloody
things.
I've never knew.
He never knew I flew.
I remember.
There's a game.
And the PS1 called, was it RC helicopter or something?
Did you use the dual shock pads?
Oh my God, that was a nightmare to fly.
The controls for that thing.
Honestly, I don't know.
I mean, apparently that's realistic.
No control.
No control.
There's a lot like that.
I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I really do not know how the hell people managed to control
these things.
They're on absolute nightmare.
They're buckle the brain with the two, the two thumb pads is like, no, absolutely no,
how, how do you do it?
Only any trouble if you use, I forget there's mode one and mode two and it's only ever
trouble if you use the mode that Peter uses.
Yeah, I use mode one.
The fact of the thing is it's all got to do with orientation and this isn't a word
of a lie.
Not much so much my neighbor, but the bloke that lives across the valley.
He's brought along as a helicopter pilot and he cannot fly radio control helicopters
and because what you have to appreciate is when you've got the nose facing away from
you as soon as you turn that nose into face towards you through your four controls of
now reversed.
So it's just a mind boggle.
Once you flip the helicopter over, two have now gone back to the original way and two
of the exact opposite again.
And yeah, it is honestly one of the hardest things I've ever tried to do in my life.
So how many of them, how many of them Peter have you destroyed the Andre pair?
Yeah, I look, I hate, I actually hate to work out the money I've spent on them, but I
am getting better.
I've actually done, well, actually, now I've done quite a few loops and flips with them,
but it's at the stage now where it's all psychological.
I can probably fly hell of what better than I think I can.
It's just the thought of all that money that, and you're trying to channel all that
concentration into the two ends of your thumbs and thinking about how much it's going to
cost when you're plowed into the dirt.
And that's the thing I've got to get out of my head, but it is obviously the best way
to spend your day.
So the angle to that is you just go really high and not really when you flip it round
than it's ours.
It doesn't really make any difference because you've taken it a couple of years before
it has to go.
Well, yeah, you think like that that you get it up and out of
your head.
But what you typically find doing is you could at my die level.
That way you can watch the rotor disc as it slightly turns to one side, you can bring
it back the other way.
Once you get it up high, by the time you've noticed that the thing started to drift sideways
and bench, it's all too late.
Next minute, it was planned towards again, the 100 miles an hour.
Yeah.
Peter mentioned like somebody flying a real helicopter, not the simulator is the way to do
it.
It's definitely the cheapest.
Yeah, yeah.
He mentioned a guy flying a real helicopter not being able to fly the RC and if you think
about driving a car and how well you can drive an RC car, that's only two axes and the helicopter
has six.
Yeah.
That's the thing.
And so, at least when you're sitting in a helicopter, it always reminds the sign.
Yeah.
You want a guy forward, you push your collective pitch, you know, forward and pull it back
and up there.
And always reminds you exactly the same.
You start flying RC helicopters, it all starts to, you know, reverse and stuff like that.
It's just confusing.
Yeah, it's fun, Bill.
I've messed around with some of the tiny ones that, you know, if I broke them, I was out
30 bucks.
Peter likes to make sure that if he breaks them, he's out 600.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
Good set of graphite blades can give it very expensive.
But mind you, if that's all you break, you're quite happy.
No, I've been destroyed the whole machine.
Oh, yeah.
Well, fortunate enough that I have a pretty forgiving wife who sort of encourages me with
it because she knows it keeps me at a trouble.
Yeah, I'll say.
But it, because obviously you should have been talking about Linux.
But I was trying to think of a good Linux simulator.
There's HeliEx, which runs under Linux.
And anyone who ever wanted to try it, they can get on eBay.
They can buy themselves a USB controller that'll plug in.
And you can download HeliEx when runs under Linux.
You do have to pay for it.
The demos are right.
Except it interrupts you with some ads or something for you, you know, just pauses and tells
you, you know, you can go and buy it from wherever.
But even the simulator is great fun.
You haven't played with the simulator, have you?
With a proper transmitter?
No, I actually haven't.
And I was actually, I wanted to ask you about that.
You said you can go on eBay and buy a controller.
Can you just use like a PS3 controller or an Xbox controller?
Can you do that now with like Bluetooth or something?
Yeah, you can.
But if you want to get like more realistic with it and actually learn, the best idea is
to go and spend.
And they're so cheap.
I think I bought mine for under $10.
A lot of the controls you can actually get cables.
But for stuffing around and simplicity, you might as well give on eBay and listen 10 bucks
by one that you know is going to work in Linux.
Plug it in and it's like a bloody six-axis joystick.
You configure it and off you go and one thing about flying on the simulator, it's pretty
realistic.
Obviously, when you crash, it's not going to cost you any money.
So there's no psychological disadvantage, you know what I mean.
You're not thinking, oh God, don't crash.
This is going to cost me hundreds of dollars.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So let's do a good indication of how hard they can be to fly.
That's exactly what I like about the little 30-all ones that I was flying, though the only
trouble is with the ones I had, they were only three-axis, not even four, let alone six
like you're flying.
And if anybody doesn't know, the accesses that are involved, three-axis helicopter, let
you move up and down, it is the one, four-and-aft, is two rotationally, is third.
So that's how those work.
A four-axis also lets you hover side to side and a six-axis really does all those things.
It doesn't really add an axis, but it adds a control, and that you change the pitch of
the blade.
And that's how the helicopters fly upside down is when they go inverted, the pitch of the
blade inverts, so it's blowing air, what would be up, but it's upside down, so it holds
it up in the air.
So that's a six-axis control.
Yeah, it's after playing, I think it was RC helicopter in the Playstation, where you,
I mean, OK, it's remote control because of the scale and stuff, but it's effectively
a helicopter.
It's after playing that and realizing just how hard that thing is to get to the fly,
that you start to get a whole new appreciation when you see war movies, like apocalypse now,
and you see the helicopter pilot is doing all sorts of bizarre things, and sort of popping
up behind the behind hills and tugging and stuff and things like, by God, big guys and
good.
All these guys are really good.
They are good, and I won't try to minimize what helicopter pilots do, but I've talked
with helicopter pilots before who say that what they do is easy compared to flying an RC
helicopter.
You just, you can't wrap your mind around it.
Well, don't they just like jack into the back of their head and learn how to fly a helicopter?
That's the way I understood it.
I think if I can go back and change anything about my whole life, do anything I would
ever change is that I think I would study to be an actual helicopter pilot.
What about that accent?
So, did you often hear it?
No, OK, that was pretty bloody funny.
Yeah, but now, honestly, I think it would be my one regretting life is that I've never
got the opportunity to actually go out and learn how to fly a propeller.
Hey, since I mentioned the Matrix, I thought I'd bring up something that I noticed the
other day, or there was a YouTube video for it, it turns out that somebody a few years
ago found out that in the movie, The Matrix, not to bring conspiracy theories into the
thing, but I thought it was kind of interesting.
In the movie, the original Matrix, when they're interrogating Thomas Anderson, aka Neo,
in the room, they open up his passport, and it turns out the expiry date on his passport
was September 11th, 2001.
I'm sold.
You know, I've never spotted that.
The matter of times I've seen that.
It's a fantastic series.
I've never spotted that.
I'll need to have a look at it.
Maybe it's something that, you know, until they released the Blu-ray and hired deaf copies
that somebody couldn't slow it down and take a freeze frame of it or something.
No, no, no, no.
Because even on DVD, you could freeze frame that movie and see the cables that were connected
in their wastes and feet to the helicopter rigs.
Are you serious?
The thing is, I mean, that must have been, if that's true, that must have been added at
the Blu-ray stage or the DVD stage, probably the Blu-ray stage, because, I mean, the Matrix
was what?
1999.
There's no way that they're going to add a date in 2011.
Are there a lot of this complete coincidence for two years in the future?
Yeah, but it's not the only coincidence.
There's actually two or three other movies that had, and TV shows, had coincidences with
911.
One of them was just four weeks, I think, before 9-11.
There was a Simpsons episode where Bart holds up a magazine cover that has $9.
And then the Twin Towers are right next to it, so it kind of spells out 9-11.
And then, a year before that, there was the Lone Gunman episode that was a spin-off of
the X-Files, and they had an episode that pretty much described what happened on 9-11.
So there's quite a few coincidences.
I think all it speaks to is that there was somebody in Hollywood that had, you know, some
kind of connection with it, and they maybe were planting evidence or clues to it.
You know, I can dispel the 9-11 thing because 9-11 being the emergency.
I can see that coming up a whole lot.
But it's a nail the year as well as it's a whole stop there.
Yeah, we should probably stop this topic right here.
I just thought I'd mention that because I found out, but like two days ago,
they're knocking on my door now.
Delta right here.
Sorry, go ahead.
Yeah, I was going to say, anytime, if you're actually writing some fictional thing and you want
a date in the future, you can pick any date you want.
If that date, when it comes to pass, if it happens to fall on some significant date,
then you can look back and say, ooh, there's some connection, but there's really not.
Yeah.
Well, I can understand that if there was a coincidental date in some movie like a romantic
comedy movie or something like that.
But the thing is, is that in that scene, and you all know the subject matter of the matrix,
in that scene, they're accusing Neo of collaborating with terrorists.
So, you know, it's kind of a, it's a huge coincidence.
It's not just a minor one.
Well, it's just coincidence that you want to make out of it, frankly,
but it is a coincidence.
There's no denying it.
I don't mean to break up the conspiracy theories because I love them,
but Delta Ray, I wanted to ask you before, because we're kind of literally running out of time at this point.
Like, we're approaching the new year.
We can't make this go as long as we want.
We can't, I'm recording, I'll be here.
Yeah, there is the, you know, I mean, this is only the new year in the East Coast right now.
So, yeah, we could keep going.
But yeah, we're not special.
Next year, next year in 2012, there's going to be an Indiana Linux Fest.
I know that last year you were on the board, I think, of Indiana Linux Fest.
I'm wondering if, uh, if there's any exciting news about the next Indiana Linux Fest upcoming.
Yeah, we're going to do this one inside a fridge.
And then you clear, oh, hang on, that's a long Indiana, my bad.
Well, all I know at this point is that it's on it is from April 13th through the 15th.
So it's like a few weeks later than it was last year.
Um, I'm not actually on the board this year because I just, you know, I don't know.
It's, it's a major time, um, consumer.
So it's, I had to sit out for this year and just say, you know, I need it.
I have to work on other stuff that I had to neglect last year.
But it's supposed to happen in April and they're trying to make it even bigger.
Yeah, I can imagine planning that kind of event has got to be just huge.
Yeah, it gave me a lot of, it gave me a lot of respect for the people who do those kind of things.
Yeah.
Um, dude, if that's the date, as soon as the date is fixed, um, let us know, um,
unscrupio.co.uk, um, so self-promote here.
Um, we've got a real list of events coming up, so we'll happily add yours to it.
So if the date is fixed, let us know.
What was that address again?
UnseenStudio.co.uk.
I believe.
Yeah.
UnseenStudio.co.uk.
Yeah.
I was busy typing that there when you were saying that clothe.
Um, yeah.
There's, there's a, there's a contact thing in there.
Let us know where your description and stuff and you'll add it to there.
If you've got an audio promo, um, let us know as well.
And we'll, we'll put that out on, uh, on Krivons for you.
What is UnseenStudio.co.uk?
What is this?
We've got a, a podcast.
We've got a couple of podcasts, actually.
We've got Talks Jam, which is Creative Commons, um, show and then Krivons,
which is a Scorsche.
Freeze Off Air, um, show, um, so we've got that podcast as well.
Well, I've never heard of either of these.
That's, uh, that's really cool.
Thank you.
Thanks James.
Good.
I, I listened to it.
Yeah.
That's, um, Kriv is actually quite a decent, decent music, actually.
Um, maybe I'm just showing my age.
I don't know.
Um, yeah.
It's a cool dude.
Um, say, Bill, if you've got audio promos and stuff, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll put them on that as well.
Uh, and we'll show them on a, uh, UnseenStudio.
We've got, uh, the reason that I mentioned it is we've got one from, um,
uh, SoCal, as I said, um, Southern California Linux Fest, something like that.
Um, so they, they got in touch, um, with their details just all day.
Um, I just put them in there.
As soon as class two said, uh, you're part of, um, such as Linux Fest and all right, right?
Okay.
There's no, uh, you'll put them there as well.
Hey, sorry.
Go ahead.
I can wait.
I was, I was just looking at this UnseenStudio website and I was, I was going to say, I really
got a kick out of the, uh, episode four, the way you word it so that it sounds like a Scottish exit.
Yeah.
The whole, um, Kyrgyzstan, that's, that's the gimmick is basically there's, uh,
there's a cartoon or a comic book, um, comic strip in, in Scotland, which is, uh, was,
Ur-Ur-Rolly and the Bruins, which is all like that.
Um, so that's why we wanted it to be, uh, the first section on that was going to be pure Scottish.
And you have no, uh, a type of English.
It's so difficult for me to type in Scottish.
I have to actually train my fingers to intentionally must type to type in Scottish.
Honestly, it's so difficult.
But yeah, that's, that's it.
It's a really nice looking website too.
What, what, what is it based on?
It's really pretty.
Yeah, it's dripple.
I'm, I'm, I'm a big dripple guy.
That's hard stuff, dude.
Yeah, as I say, um, with the events, we want to promote anyone who's got any news show or news,
um, sites, I don't know, like, I mean, I like tech.
I'll, I love tech.
Or our technical slash dot, that type of thing.
Any kind of news sites, any podcasts, anything really like listening to this sort of general sort of interest,
um, you know, let us know.
You can include it.
Um, it's like a self-promotional gig here.
Um, maybe I shouldn't need to be doing this when I'm drunk, but I don't mind.
We've got to this stage and we might as well roll it.
Um, but yeah, the, um, yeah, maybe not, maybe not drink some more.
I slept some more for a little bit, but, um, not the, as I say, promoting the, the shows,
that one of the ideas was, I mean, I thought about the idea of people visiting an area in a certain time,
and they may not know there's, um, there's a community.
I don't know if an event's going on at that time, you know, a log or something that meets when they're in that area.
But that's kind of their show.
Yeah, that's, I'm rambling now.
Yeah.
That's all right.
Yeah.
But if we're pimping stuff, uh, you remind me of something I really wanted to, to take an opportunity to pimped tonight,
and, uh, and I missed it.
Um, so it did.
Were you done?
Did you want to say anything else before I, before I changed topics?
So cruelly.
Oh no, dude.
Um, I'm at the point where I'm just about ready to say it off.
So you go ahead.
All right.
Well, okay.
Cool.
Thank you.
Well, music, it reminded me, and we, we mentioned this earlier just briefly, but I want to go back into it was cchits.com.
Um, that is a website whose plan, the way that it's designed and organized their, their project is, from my point of view,
it's nearly perfect in design.
And the only flaw in the whole thing is that it requires people to participate for it to work.
And it doesn't seem like people are participating.
Um, and, and I say it as a flaw kind of tongue in cheek.
But if people would subscribe to cchits daily feed and not just subscribe, but actually vote on the creative comments music that you like,
it actually could have a working top 40 type creative comments website.
And it's cchits.com, you said?
Oh, no, I'm sorry.
It's, it's probably cchits.org.
I would try that first, but, um, I can look it up in a second.
Looks like cchits.net.
Yeah, I was going to say, um, Kevin does the music for Kevin's.
Um, and he's, he's done stuff and some of the links he's done.
There's been cchits.net, I think.
Cool. Yeah, I, I, I'm looking at it now.
Actually, yeah, this does look really cool.
And, and I guess the, the way that is designed and I've had a couple of beers now too.
So please don't, um, you know, take my, my half sober ramblings as a gospel here.
But the way that it's supposed to work is that you listen to the song on their stream and vote for it and your vote ways fairly heavily upon it.
And if that song is mentioned on another podcast, um, before you vote, then your vote ways slightly less is, is, is to the best of my understanding or to the best of my recollection really.
When I heard it explained, it made a whole lot of sense that I explained it to Ken on an HBR episode, actually.
And, um, but yeah, I mean, we really could have a functioning top 40 machine if people would participate.
I honestly believe that in the, uh, in the sense of music discovery, because that's what people basically complain about is how do you discover good music?
Because there's so much crap.
But I honestly believe that if people participated in this, that the, the monthly show that did that, the, um, you know, the top of the charts there could compete with a commercial top 40 chart.
Because it's still music and it's a hell of a lot better than the crap that they feed us.
So on, on a slightly side note before I get back to the main topic, um, there was the Douglas Adams, um, skip the guy who did checkers guide to the galaxy.
Uh, about the things make you to be in the same state of an E variation to understand.
Uh, he was about to be up.
Um, but now the, um, I was sort of going to say there was two points I was gonna, I was going to go back to, but I can't remember.
Oh, one. So carry on.
Yeah, I've said what I have to say about CCH. Just, um, um, you know, begging people to participate in that as much as I'm begging people to participate in in.
In Hacke Public Radio.
Is everybody checking and out or is everybody running out of stuff to say 30 minutes early?
really. I think a bit of both. I got my guitar ready. If we run I start to talk about.
No, I don't know what I was wondering. No, I don't know. I couldn't have had
in between I thought there and then I said I lost it and then I picked it up again
and then I lost it again. So I think that's maybe a good time for me to bow out of
this evening's entertainment. So I think I'll leave that leave you gentlemen
and will use it for any present with a happy new year and it's good to talk to you. It's
good to put names to faces that I talked to NIRC and I'll probably talk to you another time.
See you later. Thanks for being the the affable brunt of a lot of our jokes. You were
awesome tonight. Thanks for coming on and happy new year. See you at this one.
Good night, sir. Hey, happy new year, Dad. Yeah, I'm happy. I can take it at school. Let's go.
So how have a good day? Have a good evening. Peep bells and see you another time.
Okay, I'm not clear. How do you listen to the songs? Like, is there a feed or something?
You have to go to the site to just listen. I'm not getting yet. Yep. There's several feeds.
So if you go, if you look at their website and it's a CC hits down the right
hand side to CC hits about and then listen and the very first link in that paragraph
to expose your show, that's the daily show and the song comes out every single day.
And it's it's really weird. I think, you know, if they had a bug report, I file a bug report
because their daily show was like 11 minutes long, even though a song's only four minutes. This
is just I think in my opinion, there's too much surrounding it and that might be a turn off for
some people. But if you hit that link to the exposure show, you can go to a page where there's
voting for each particular song and there's only one song per show and one show per day.
And I'm pretty sure this is a seven day a week show. They have a as I understand it,
they have a vast repository of creative commons music. And I think it's just selected randomly
as to what gets the feed each day. Okay, I'm intrigued. I'm I'm going to check it out.
Yes, one more subscribe. Yeah, so what's the purpose for this, Pauke? You probably covered
this in me in time today, but you'll release this or whatever a couple of episodes of HPR or
something was at the idea or ideally because you'd have to be a lunatec to sit through a 12-hour
show. Hey, I take me that long to make the bloody fairway, so it would just be day for me.
If you want it all at once, Peter, I'll I'll put it up somewhere for you.
If you got any friends who listen to Linux by cast 12 hours straight, we'll we'll make a feed
just for them too. I'm surprised how many people actually say to be the longer the better,
but I'm actually a longer the better person, you know, I quite enjoy putting on one and just
wasn't okay. That's the sad thing about Linux link texture. I think they're too short these days.
Cartoon, you're going to do orderly editing or what? No, I'm happy to say that I have not been
asked or made to agree to do any editing for this yet. Cartoon, would you like to edit this show?
I didn't know it was just a case of just asking. No. That's pretty blunt. Yeah, no, Peter, I guess
basically the idea was that I was going to cut it up into smaller shows and feed them out,
and I'm not entirely sure how I'm going to decide where the breaks go because, you know, we could
put it at some arbitrary time limit like an hour and then have 12 shows, but we break the topic
in half and I don't know if that's necessarily the way that we want to do it, but it will figure
something out. I'm pretty sure they're all going to hit the feed. I don't think there's a whole
lot we're going to throw out, except for when we had some server issues, we had about an hour of
the server coming up and then going down for a little bit, but no, it's been, I mean, I've been
sitting here for 11 and a half hours now, and it's been 11 and a half of the most fun hours I've
had this year, so yeah, that's going to. Yeah, it doesn't seem, I mean, I really, when you told me
about it initially, I thought, well, 12 hours is very long time. You didn't think very long time,
you thought stupid. Okay, stupid, stupid, long time. But no, it's passed pretty darn quickly,
I'd say. The first, like, I don't know, the first 10 hours just went by like nothing. It's
pretty amazing. When you look at, I mean, we've had some pretty marathon Colonel Panic's class too,
you know, and when you think we get on them, we think, oh, we've got no stories and then four
hours later, we all think, oh, we better go, you know, well, that's going to be over. It's amazing
when you get a bunch of geese together. What you think I'm up with to talk about, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah, you're right. Not to mention Peter, and this is going to kill you that you missed it.
We had core nominal on here, the Gauda's crunch bang. I pay an item. Yeah, that's really neat.
Yeah, well, that's, I mean, I can't wait till you get this all posted. And like, I'm not,
I'm not Jake, and I could quite easily take the whole thing and listen to it over two days.
Why am I, and I wouldn't have a problem doing that. Yeah, it's, it's, no, it's, it's been wicked fun,
it's been so cool. And, and, and, you know, I've said this before, but since, you know,
you're coming to new here and it doesn't really matter who you repeat stuff. You know, when,
when the idea first came up, you know, Ken found said, hey, we need to do an end of year review
or some such thing. And, you know, and I said, well, he said, Poke, why don't you do it? I said,
well, that's fine, but what I'm going to need is a lot of people. I said, so I'll just open up
a mumble server for 12 hours. And whoever shows up is what will show up. And, and that'll be edited
down into some show because there's part about getting people together is that nobody's in the
same time zone. So I figured if I opened it up to 12 hours, we'd get people from all over the
place. And in 12 hours, we'd be able to fill an hour or an hour and a half long show. It didn't
occur to me at the time to stream it live. And it didn't occur to me at the time that we'd have,
you know, a million people who were willing to get in on it and help out. But the more, like,
really the closer to the date that it got, the more people jumped up and were like, hey, man,
I want to help out. I want to mirror your server. I want to be part of it, help out. And the
community has pulled together in such a way that if I had one more beer in me, I'd be tiering
up about it right now. It's really, really been spectacular. Colonel Panic never has that kind of
help. There's my fight. I'll be back. Yeah, but I never heard Colonel Panic ask either. And that's
all I did. People keep saying, hey, Pokey, good job pulling this together. Great job. I didn't
pull anything together. I just asked. I asked the chat room, the RSE, and I asked the mailing list,
and I asked a couple of people and it spread from there. I really didn't do anything except to say
that I'll sit here and do the recording and man the thing. It's it's everyone who's been here that
did it. I didn't do anything. The point is the puzzle that add up to all I didn't put for
it very much either. But if it wasn't for your putting the question out there, it wouldn't happen.
That happens a lot to me. I can't deny that. Well, doesn't that kind of go back to what we were
saying to Lost in Bronx? Part of it really is just kind of asking. Don't just say,
I wish I could get help on this project or I wish I could get paid for this artwork or whatever
the case might be. You have to let people know that you need something so that if there is someone
out there that can help, they'll know about it and they can help you or set something up for you
or whatever. Oh, yeah, for sure. And it's the same thing as I said earlier that accepting the
help was the hard part and not because I have a hard time accepting help. It was what do I do
with people who are offering me their skills and how do I use their skills? And that might be
directly analogous to what you're saying about Lost in Bronx that all you really has to do is put
a donation button there. You know, a buy me a beer button or something. There has to be a means
of accepting the help from the people who want to help you. Our means of accepting the help
today happen to be in come on the stream, donate some time to the show, participate in the chat room
and mirror the stream. I mean, that's how we accepted it. But, you know, for Lost in Bronx,
if for anybody else who's doing that kind of work, it could just be a donate button. It could just
be a financial thing. Who really knows, you know? Well, this kind of event just blows my mind to
because it just, I mean, there's a community out there and you had this idea to do a 12-hour show
one way or another, whether you knew you were saying that you were going to do a 12-hour show or not.
But, you know, you have this idea and just all the technology is there and all the people who know
what they know about that technology come together and it just, it just happens. And that to me,
it's really, really unique. You know, you don't, you don't necessarily see that in all other kind
of groups and organizations. You don't necessarily see people just coming together and doing whatever
is necessary to make something happen. It's, I mean, it does happen sometimes, but it doesn't always
happen. And it's, it's really cool that this is that kind of community, that kind of group that,
that everyone is business oriented enough and no nonsense enough that, yes, we are going to make
this happen. Now, let's get it done and it happens. It's really neat. Oh, yeah, you don't have to tell
me. I know that it doesn't happen elsewhere. I, I'm not going to lie to you. There were several
points at this week where I was in a nervous panicky sweat because I had no idea if it was going
to work. And if I had promised something that I couldn't deliver on and there were people there
to say to me, calm down, it'll come together. You didn't promise to deliver. You invited the
community to do it. You know, Dan, Dan Washgo talked to me off the cliff twice.
Um, uh, pipe man music, talk me down from it once. You talked me down from one site, I think,
and I do class two. And um, yeah, I mean, I have, I was in a panic. Can I do this? Can I do this?
And I just had to step back when, when these guys said to me, no, you can't, but it's a community
thing. It's cool. And that's, it absolutely was. And this is, this has been so cool. I mean, 12
hours of continuous talk. We, we barely rehashed the subject that, and I think when we did it,
it was worth rehashing. And um, I mean, this is Dan near a Linux fest, you know, and it came to
wheat, came, came to fruition in a few weeks. It's really cool. Uh, we still have 20 minutes.
This could all go to shit. Don't count your chickens for that. Don't chase it now.
Why stop at 12 hours if everybody's still here? Keep on recording now. Yeah, yeah, I said that a
couple of times. I wasn't actually looking at the clock. I was looking at my last beer.
I didn't get to play any songs. Why don't you play us a song now then what we have a chance?
What do you want to hear? Why don't you post that link and we'll, we'll vamp for a few minutes
while people look over the link and we'll take a request. You, you had a link, a list of songs
that you were ready to go with, right? Yeah, let me grab the link. I hate Peter. What you just
about to say while he's from there. I was just gonna ask have you worked out how many countries
or continents you've had people join in tonight from? I would say three. We've definitely got
Australia, Europe and the United States and we've got Great Britain too. I know a lot of the
Europeans don't consider them Europe. So I'm gonna say four. That's pretty good, isn't it?
And no coffee. Oh, that's not true. I started out with a whole pot of friends. Yeah, yeah,
there's been coffee consumption going on. Oh, sorry. I was just digs it. He's disappointed
because he was frankly, he was expecting a train wreck. He's saying, but he's saying how
remarkably solid the whole 12 hours is being. We couldn't have done it without digs at sitting
there encouraging us for 12 hours. I don't know what kept him on. Make sure you tell digs
it. How much? He's funny, but always in the background cracking everyone up.
Yeah, well, I got to be honest. We're not gonna lie about it. We didn't have 12 hours of continuous
chat. We did have that probably hour where all we got was about 20 minutes of talk out of it,
where the server was we probably just filled this buffer or something. I was theorizing his drive
just got full. His like his boot drive just got full or something. Yeah, yeah, that's, yeah,
I was I thought we were either was is ran was full and we're going into swap or like slash
Etsy was full. I was kind of panicking for a little bit. It all worked out. You gave me a phone call
and I came in. Yeah, no, it's it's worked out amazingly well. I'm astonished at how many people
we got on here at all at once. I mean, when this when when it was full, we had what maybe 20 people
in the main room and probably five or eight people out in the testing room and it was really solid.
What kind of connection are you paying for?
They're my server. Yeah, yeah. I mean, it's at your house, isn't it? No, cheapest web host I can get.
Oh, for real? Oh, I thought you were sitting in front of the a mobile server. No, no, it's off site.
It's a shared host. So what kind of what kind of bandwidth are you paying for? You know,
a monthly bandwidth? Yeah, yeah, 600 600 gigabyte or or at at a moment like, like, you know,
kilobits per second. Is there a cap on that or they just give you a channel? No, no, it's whatever
the boxes can handle, you know, so you might get an email tomorrow. No, there's no limit on it.
I mean, they can throw me. Well, it's as deep geek says, you know, unlimited just means they're
not going to tell you what the limit is. Well, you know, I've used webfaction for quite a few
different, pretty high volume sites and my friend uses them all the time and your friend Bob never
had an issue. Is this your friend Bob? Your your friend Bob? I don't know who Bob is. That was Ken's
friend. Oh, that was Ken. I'm sorry. I don't know what the hell you're talking about. I apologize.
Ken has a friend named Bob who, yeah, Bob just forget about us. Is this an acronym? No,
no, Bob does a legal shit. And we just talk about who he really is. Oh, exactly. Because I know
some ladies refer to Bob as their battery-operated boyfriend. No, I don't know. I think it's more
of a candy to your pals who masturbates a lot. Diggs, it may be getting as rich.
Oh, Delwin, did you just show up? You haven't been here the whole time, right? Yeah, he's been here
quite a while. Yeah, I've been on an awful night long. Well, actually, all afternoon long. He's been
doing about six hours of this. Yeah, he's been doing a lot of the testing as well, along with Kevin,
W. I mean, not necessarily along with, but he as well has been doing that. Oh, right. I'm
not going to steal his thunder. I've only done it a couple of times, but it's been really enjoyable,
guys. And thank you for doing it. It was been a lot of fun. Oh, yeah, absolutely. I just,
I've looked for your name several times today and hoping you would chime in. And every time I
looked at it, I didn't see it. So now you're here and hey, I'm glad to see you. That is one strange
thing about mumble slash murmur that I'll say is the names are not in alphabetical order. So
it's not always easy to tell if someone you're looking for is in there. I believe they're in alphabetical
order with preference to the capitalization, you know, capital first letters come first.
Good call. Yeah, they look at alphabeticals to me. Yeah, even using capital's little A big A,
you're reading the wrong polkae. I'm a little dyslexic Peter. I read everything wrong. Yeah,
sir Duncan. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, he's climbing us at the bottom where he belongs. That's the
only thing. I want to say a fair thing. A medical year resting on a plane.
Oh, they're applying a bloody wheel, weren't it? Yeah, well, whatever. That was probably because of
the exploding iPhone. No, that's not good. It was a some lighty one that rang your camera. Yeah,
yeah, yeah, it was. He said that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's just, it's American. We don't have that
kind of sense of humor over here that they do also. Yeah, I guess the lady thought she was being
sexually harassed and had to do to rest it. No, no, no, I think a bird got arrested, didn't it?
Wasn't the bird it got arrested? No, it was a human. It was a human. Well, yeah, what was it?
I don't know. I'm really confused. Was it a bird? Was it a plane? That's a Sheila. The party
Sheila said it and she got arrested. But I don't understand why. I don't get it. Somebody
could call out to somebody on a plane asked a question of somebody else. The person responding
must have said the answer and the person said fair dinkum and whoever heard that had never heard
the expression and thought they were being sexually harassed. I think that's how it went.
I don't understand how you get sexual harassment from the term fair dinkum. Am I missing a pun?
Yeah, well, it sounds like dink a little bit is my closest guess. I honestly don't know what the
world has come to these days, but considering that it has come to it, fair dinkum is sexual harassment.
I feel a little harassed every time Peter 64 does. I just love Peter.
Sorry, but so you're telling us that Peter 64 has been sexually harassing us all these year?
On a good day, yes. He tries at least. Hey, go, I posted it. So I've been
assigned it. Uh, Google, something called Google. I didn't want to show her to think what fortnight actually
means. Yeah, God, they could be terrible. We can all be arrested. I can tell you why. Tony, Tony,
I make Tony Kim. He sends us a bit of feedback at Colonel Pink all the time. Tell me where fortnight
comes from. Now there's one to know. I've always wanted this myself, but we do now. Okay,
it had something to do with. I don't think he ever said Chinese Mongolian border, but it had
something to do with some border where there was big war. And once every two weeks, the soul just
got to spend the night in one of the castle towers on the port. So that was a fortnight.
You know, they were led to sleep inside and have a hot meal and a fire or something. So there you go.
That's where the saying fortnight comes from. When I was when I was first married, my wife used to
let me have a fortnight. Yeah, boy. Boom, boom. I miss those nights. Peter and the same kind of
vein I heard just yesterday where Kappa Joe came from. What is on, I've heard the term Kappa Joe.
It's eating place or something, you know, coffee. It's a cup of coffee. There was a coffee again.
Yeah, go on, go on, Paiki. Where does it come from? So I guess apparently in the Britain,
a Kappa is an expression that they'll use for a cup of tea. But during World War II,
when American troops were stationed in the Britain, they in their rations didn't have tea. They had
coffee and the British GIs were just called GIs, but the American GIs are referred to as GIs.
Joe. So the British GIs had a Kappa and the American GIs had a GI Joe's had a Kappa Joe.
You mean the Limies? Yeah, those guys. Gotcha. What are the palms, Peter? Is that what they are?
Oh, there goes the server again. All of a sudden we're going to blast on top of one another. It'll
be in about two minutes from now. How come it's always only when Cobra II is around?
There's no delay here except for my trying to go with a punchline, damn it. Actually, yeah,
maybe it's not the server. Maybe it's just someone forgot to answer. Yeah, okay. Yeah, I don't think
you're making this time. It isn't the server. We're going to wait for it to beat.
Maybe it's the leading. Put down bump. I don't get it. So what topics haven't we covered today
that need yet to be covered? Well, I don't know, but I think we're five minutes out. I never got
a request. You never posted the link, did you? I did. Yeah, I posted. Where's the link? I don't
see it. There's an Eric. There's Park Man music and then it's surrounded by open brackets
and then it says a link in the Oddcast Planet channel. Sorry, I saw it. Me too. Yeah, I probably
saw the word Doc's Google and ignored it. Sorry. How about the Eric Clapton song?
Sure. Done. Awesome.
I gotta remember how to play it, though. If you said you could do this on a moment's notice.
You play guitar? I never have. Don't criticize. I don't still remember the intro.
Which Eric Clapton song did you just request? I think there's only one on the list.
I'm supposed to say when I request it again and again.
You're hot back up on the list.
You take a money from someone else.
You take a money from someone else.
You take a money from someone else.
You take a money from someone else.
Come on.
I'll show the loser.
If I'm too loud, you just gotta tell me I'll turn it down.
I did. Hey, Pokey. Hey, Pokey. Hey, Pokey, it was lay down Sally and it was awesome.
Lay down Sally's not on there, is it? Yeah, yeah. The ones down there at the I sort of know.
Yeah, well, I only sort of know him. Hey, I am. He can pick those one.
There's nothing out there's good. Our clock on the East Coast just ticked over to the new year.
It's officially 2012 and I have a song too.
Happy New Year, Happy Public Radio, Happy New Year, everybody on the call around the world.
It's amazing what you guys pulled together today.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
How come when Clat 2 does my jokes, they're hilarious and when I do his, they suck.
What was my joke? That was your song, man.
Oh, that wasn't a joke. That was a song. Yeah, right, but people should know that it was a reverent song.
People should have been talking through what I thought. I think it was just too beautiful.
It was not. I just took it as a break to read the chat room and happy New Year, people.
I was jumping around to different channels, saying Happy New Year.
Oh, cool. All right. That's awesome. No, I was stuck with my finger on the buttons so that the computer would stream it.
Say the diamond records in 2012 is going to be the year of the Linux desktop.
And you're into the world. No, no, I do have something to ask.
Everybody look at what's in front of them. They're a computer and tell me, are you running Windows Linux or Mac?
Linux. What's it?
Well, Peter. Is this baby?
Yeah, that's an awesome laptop.
Cool.
All right. So I hear by officially dub 2012 or 2011 as it was the year of the Linux desktop.
There you go. I did the official survey. It has been decided so we can move on.
Yeah, we did it. Congratulations, everyone. Well done, Linux.
Everyone on this podcast was surveyed for door.
Oh, I'm sorry. That's not Linux.
Yeah, what, you know, we never even asked that. I really wanted to get your 30 minutes.
You can have Windows up and running.
Oh, I've got a damn.
You scraped six minutes off of it. You beast.
What's getting good at this? I did manage to this year put together a couple machines for my kids for Christmas.
I ordered some bare bones kits and I was able to assemble them and have them up and running with all their users set up and all that and all the updates run less than an hour each.
So nice from a pile of parts.
I've done a few arching stalls of late and really if you've got to fast in that connection, you can get arch up and running pretty bloody quick.
As long as you've got the Jamie and Andy just to ask questions when you step up.
He is the key, isn't he?
No, it's funny. We've arching stalls. At first, you have to follow the bloody week, you know, step by step.
And then you get confident enough to not follow the week and that's when you really step up and then you have to ask the Jamie and then you actually get to a stage where you can set it up and not look at the week and not make any mistakes.
And I finally got to that stage after about five years.
Hey Pete, I got a trick that'll shorten your arching stalls where you just you take your packages on a machine that you've already got arch running on.
And you just mount that over NFS and use that as your package source and then you don't have to bother with dealing with the internet. You just download from what you already got.
That's probably good idea cover. I swap my configuration calls around, but I've never really looked at doing that with the packages, which is probably a smart thing to do.
There is a site where one of the developers has a daily image of arch. So you don't get that 2010 of May, whatever, and you got to update the database and you know the deal, but they have a daily image where it's like, I don't know the link.
So don't ask, but if you just look it up, it's what developers get a link where you know.
Yeah, I must admit, it's not anywhere near as bad, like usual, but I upgraded to eight meg internet, you know, download it.
It's bloody hell what quicker than my old one. So doing anti-slations doesn't take really any time, but all the more.
All right, I think I'm going to go see what my wife's doing and I think I'm done for the night.
So happy New Year to everyone. I'll be back down before I go to bed to shut everything off, but feel free to keep talking as long as you want.
Thanks a lot, pipe man, and happy New Year. Happy New Year.
Happy New Year, man. You were instrumental in pulling this together for us. Thank you so much.
No worries. See you next year. Later. Later on Sally was awesome. Yeah. Say it, partner. Look, Goblin, Dan just joined us.
Holy cow, a double end at the first double end, Dan, citing of the New Year.
I've been off and off and on throughout the day. And for the past couple hours, every time I pop in, it's just red exercises.
So I thought he took over the whole show.
He's dead. I'm here to clubhouse. Sorry.
Dan, you have been oddly timed then because he's been like uncharacteristically silent.
So you, I don't know what you're looking at.
I saw that they were inviting him in as redge extra sister. So I saw him and then he was talking about going on about taking over stuff and doing his own show.
Then, uh,
Platoon invited him on the hacker public radio to do episodes for that.
And then he said he wouldn't do anything for that trash. I don't know what, what it was going on about.
BST, man. Yeah.
I swear to you, he's, we've had to drag all of that out of him. Wow.
Well, see, that's it. I locked out. I got to hear it. The most important stuff of the night.
I'll say, I mean, except for when this will web touched him off, we really had to like folks him to talk.
So that's awesome.
This is awesome. This will web is awesome. But he, wow, he touched you off pretty bad.
Well, he kind of, he kind of, I don't know, some of the things he was saying, I didn't really feel we're very accurate about the whole Unix issue.
I didn't kind of kind of got to meet you to be honest.
He didn't apologize. He was lit.
He had to understand a lot, a lot. Now I understand that. I mean, this is like someone said earlier, these aren't arguments. It's just a podcast.
We all are friends. It's just point and counterpoint.
Happy day after New Year's Peter 64.
Yeah, thanks, Dan. Is it 2010 in Australia?
It was 2012 an hour ago.
2012.
Did you have the opportunity to go on today?
Yeah, I did. I was just going to say unfortunately today was just a bit like every other day.
I had to get up and go to work at bloody five o'clock this morning.
Peter in Australia this 2012 marked the year that the world begins.
It's a big deal for you guys, right? Yeah, there it is.
I'll be waiting for that one. Dan, I thought you'd come out and say that one disappointed.
I know you should be. That means you're happy, right?
Exactly.
Peter, not that I can remember it, but we had a damn good Australia joke from the cap room way early on.
Hey, and Strask meet me conference bridge, I tend to hear.
I'm not certain that anybody used it, but it was there and we published it.
And it was working because you and I tested it out and I was actually sad.
I was trying to get people in there all day.
I was in it all day, so I knew it was working.
Is that why it was echoing?
I don't think so.
Was it echoing?
No, everyone's in a while. I did only when somebody said the word echo.
How dare you, sir?
Well, I called it her connection.
I called into it a couple times when I was out of the room.
Cool. How did it work?
The sound was a little fuzzy sometimes, but other than that, it was just like this.
Sweet.
Yeah, literally Dan.
I can't remember it's all that.
It helps her plus hardware.
Yeah, we deal in the generic.
From 1999, we'll take tilts leftover stuff any day.
They put together one of the best podcast that exists.
Ain't that the truth?
Anyone problem with it?
Just get to show up these days.
That's why you got to listen to Linux and house.
And then the new upcoming show in a couple of weeks.
What's the new one?
I can't reveal that yet, Peter.
But it is almost ready to go.
Who show is this?
It's a collaborative effort between myself and certain people in hack public radio.
Dan, by the time this show publishes, it's going to be old news.
See, it might as well say it.
Yeah, come on, Dan.
But if I say it now, then everybody else is going to know.
Only the people who helped out today.
Don't we deserve to know?
You deserve nothing.
All right.
It's a show called Linux in the show.
And I think maybe I mentioned this before, didn't I?
Not the right tool.
Yeah, I don't remember it.
It's just, I've been thinking of a way,
because I'd like to do a kind of beginning tutorial type podcast
when we thought about that for a long time.
Chess Griffin did Linux reality.
What I thought about doing was taking one command.
I talked about this with you, Pokey.
I didn't say that you didn't.
I only like for everyone else answer.
Yeah, what it is going to be is,
Ken Fallon hooked me up with some space on the HPR web server.
And what I'm going to do is about every two weeks.
I'm going to cover one command in particular.
And I'm going to do an audio portion of that.
It's going to be a write up.
All right.
And the first one is, I'm not the hit the mute,
but while you're talking, Dan.
I didn't hit the mute button.
So if it cut out, it wasn't me because I heard it go ding.
So that wasn't me that cut out.
Okay.
It's going to have a write up on the website.
It's going to have an audio component
to be released on Hacker Public Radio.
And it's going to have a video component that shows the examples
of using it, how to use it.
And it's all going to be up there.
And I'm going to, I figured I'm going to go hug on this.
I'm going to plaster it across Facebook, Twitter,
Identica, Google Plus.
And just go crazy with it to see how well it does.
What's going to come out about by weekly?
These shall commands, right?
What's that?
These shall commands, right?
No.
I don't know.
Maybe I'll get into these shall one day.
But I really, you know,
because I do a lot of stuff in the terminal all the time.
So I figured, you know, a nice way to give back
show these commands.
Just a, there's another one that does kind of something similar
where they, they do, they do that terminal recording application.
And is there a doeshell?
A what shell?
A DA shell.
Like Linux in doeshell.
There is a, there is dash.
Yeah.
No, it's just Linux in doeshell.
It's not doeshell.
It's doeshell.
I didn't want to go for that.
It's the, it's the, but, um,
because then you get all that corporate sponsorship from the DA shell.
Yeah.
Thanks.
But I hope to have the first episode out within the next week or two.
But I got to,
I just got the website up and,
and we've got to get that thing going.
And I got to get page making me pictures.
Artwork.
Doesn't she need a drawing towel for that?
Sure.
She had one,
which will hopefully be doing a show tomorrow about that.
Very cool.
It's just going to ask about that.
It's a really place we can look at some of the artwork she's been doing.
Have you put that on Linux in the house website yet?
It will be, when she's done with it,
it will be up there.
Yeah.
Cool.
We got to put up the next episode,
which we're hopefully recording and putting out tomorrow.
Sounds like there's going to be a figure.
Um, new shows on HBR.
Because I wait.
I haven't talked about monster,
but he's new game.
Gaming shows.
Plenty.
I mean, he's not here to stop us.
So I say, yeah.
He's the worst.
I've been there in the game.
He wanted a project to be there to be here.
So that should be another good, interesting series coming out on HBR.
I mean, I look forward to that.
I think monster.
I invited him on.
I honestly did.
Can you say again, Peter?
I think part two was just about to say that, um,
if anyone was going to do a gaming show,
I think Monster Boo would be a really good host to host it.
Yeah.
I've really missed her.
Bees voice on,
on in the podcasting world.
So I'm really happy that he's going to be doing something.
And it might as well be on gaming,
because I mean, he does play them.
And I love it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I love to hear about gaming,
even though I don't play them.
I love listening to stuff about them,
because it intrigues me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I want to back that up too,
that it's been far too long that we haven't heard Monster Boo.
Yeah.
That tube.
Yeah, for sure.
It wants to be definitely.
Um, but yeah,
that's a weird thing.
Because I thought I was the only one that I find.
I find games really, really interesting,
but I really can't be bothered anymore.
I can't find the time to play them and get good at them.
And, uh, yeah,
but, but they're wicked interesting.
Peggy, were you and I'm a diamond before?
Uh, I'd say I was a fairly,
I don't know if I would say avid,
but, uh,
I certainly used it to distract myself from getting
anything real done back in the console days.
I never really got into it on the computer,
because I never could afford a good computer
or a good video card and as I understand it,
you need both.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's funny.
I used to love playing games,
like, um,
especially when I lived up in Canberra,
right a few mates who were into,
like, down to like,
table of knowledge and, um,
yeah, star craft.
Then there's, uh,
the real time strategies that you could play multiplayer
over the internet.
And we used to kick them off at four o'clock in the afternoon.
We'd still be going on at four o'clock in the morning.
And then all of a sudden,
you sort of wake up one morning.
I don't know if it just means you're getting old.
And they held now interest to my animal,
which is funny.
Yeah.
If you ever take a serious look at the time you spend gaming
and, you know,
put that in one hand and put the output in the other hand,
one of those two seems very light
and one of them seems very heavy.
So from that logical standpoint,
it kind of weighs out that way,
but there's definitely some merit to gaming
in that it's a stress relief.
And it's a way to connect with your people.
Yeah.
And I think it can be said of, well,
reading books and watching movies and listening to music.
I mean, people are very into those activities as well,
but they're not terribly productive in the traditional sense.
So, uh, yeah,
I think maybe a certain type of person
starts to lean toward exploring other things,
but some people just still like games.
Well, you know, just they just keep playing them forever
as far as I can tell.
Yeah.
Glad to.
I would disagree with you on that.
I would disagree with you because I would too.
I love games.
I love movies.
And I love to read.
And I would say first and foremost,
I always usually get something productive out of a book.
No matter what book I'm reading.
I never came away from reading a book saying,
man, why did I waste my time on that movie?
Sometimes I can get really thought, you know,
good thought provoking stuff out of a movie.
But by and large,
I didn't.
No.
I didn't.
Well, but I wait.
I did say traditionally in the traditional sense of productivity.
I believe I said that.
I meant to say that.
I don't mean that they're not productive.
I just mean like if you're literally looking for something
that you created as a result of those activities,
chances are you will not find something tangible.
That's all I meant.
You said not productive.
That means like drinking coffee or something.
I'm not going to fall for that trap this time,
but I can't say anything it's dreadful.
I can't, I can't, I can't really say anything it's dreadful.
I can't, I can't, I can't really say anything it's dreadful.
That's the reason I say healthy,
especially the way I want.
They're explosive.
I can't, I can't.
I'm expensive.
They're explosive.
Oh.
I was going to say that if you didn't.
I will say,
I will say,
I will say,
playing video games because I played a hell of a lot of video games
in the past couple of weeks,
and I'm getting to that point of saying I need to stop now
because it's just sucking my life away.
life away, and you don't have much to show for it, except for a headache, blurry eyes,
but a good time.
Right.
I mean, and you're apiating someone's art.
I mean, video games are unquestionably, at least in my mind, a really complex and fantastic
form of art.
So, I mean, it's really cool.
What about the precious time you could spend with your daughter, Dan, instead of playing
that piece?
What about that, Dan?
Well, we have discussed this before.
This precious time watching me play.
But what can you do the same last time?
She...
She...
This is how it's changed in the household.
She's been playing Zelda all night long, so I have to go to bed early so I can get up
before she does, so I can play.
That's so funny.
That's great.
Is she awake now?
Can she say hi to us?
She is.
I don't know what she's doing.
Probably playing.
No way.
What's that?
I said, if she's not awake, you wake her.
No, she's awake.
She's in the other room, I don't know.
We just watched the ball drop and everything.
I...
Hey Peter, you asked if I used to be an avid gamer.
Yep.
A lot.
I used to play Gran Turismo on the PlayStation and Gran Turismo 2 and 3 on the PlayStation
2, I guess.
And me and that game sucked up so much of my life, that racing game, and as much time
as I spent playing Gran Turismo, I probably spent equal that amount of time hacking the original
Gran Turismo.
You could get a device that plugged into a game shark, I think it was called.
You could plug it into the back of your PlayStation 1 if you had the specific early models of the
PlayStation 1, and if you hit the button, it dumped you into a hexadecimal and you could
change the hex code of the game, and there was tens of thousands of lines of code there,
and my buddy said, no, go to this code, go to this screen, and hit the button, and go
to this code, and you can adjust the stuff that's on your car.
And that's all he told me, he gave me the one address, and I figured out that the next,
I think it was probably 16 lines, were all code about the car that you have, and I made...
I mean, I still have, I have notebooks, like three-ring binders full of pages on every
car you could get in that game, and all the different mods, all the different codes that
you could put in, and all the different slots, and see what the results are.
And I'd say I spent more time hacking that hex code than I ever spent playing the game,
and both were equally as fun to me.
That's really cool, although you can probably save to throw those notebooks away, just
FYI.
FU.
But that is really, really...
But that's just a thing that got you into a 2DM, one that's that you should have started
off programming young games and stuff like that.
Yes, sir.
My old man would not let me buy video games.
So you wrote your own games?
I had to.
Like from scratch or out of a magazine, like I hear people talk about.
I did both.
I started with doing a amount of magazines, and I tried writing my own for...
I mean, this is back in the TI-994A.
I wrote my own games, and I used a couple of them that I wrote for.
Like science projects.
And then I got old enough to be able to go buy my own games, and that kind of put Kabash
on that.
What kind of games did you write?
It was really simple games.
You know, stuff like chicken, but it was more of like superheroes involved in having
to run across different places.
There was one that I wrote where it was more of a...
You had to answer questions to progress through this...
That was a science project.
It was...
It was a little too...
I forget what it was.
I think it was about the bicycle safety, I think, about bicycle video, a bicycle safety,
and the need for bicycle zones on the side of the road.
And then when it was all done, you had to go through a little quiz game where you were
Captain America, and you had to fight off all these bad guys.
I don't know why.
It made absolutely no sense.
And I was like, Captain America came in, and he was like, hi kids, it was a bank robbery
going on, and he threw a shield at the bad guys and knocked them out and got the money.
And he said, hi kids, I'm here to teach you about bicycle safety.
And then you had to progress through like a couple of different stages and answer questions
about the project.
That is awesome.
Yeah.
Gosh.
And the graphics were like, except for Captain America, I did it for TI-994A, it was pretty
cool.
But some of the graphics I came up with for the bad guys are just like, unrecognizable
blobs.
There's no chance to get in like a YouTube video of this or a screen cap in an emulator
is there?
Oh my goodness, this was on what I did for this was saved on cassette tape and is long gone.
I...
Like I said, it's only TI-99.
I still have the 994A over here in the room, but whether it works or not, I don't know
and I don't think I could ever find that program again.
Oh, what?
Genuinely sad that that's gone, that sounds so cool.
What did the TR series run, like what was that like a DOS machine or something?
No, it was something.
It was its own language, but it had basic and you can get extended basic.
Okay.
So it was just really simple, basic language.
That worked pretty well.
It had a limitation of, you can only have 16 sprites on the screen at a time, so you were
very limited on types of different things you could do in the games with sprites.
Yeah.
I did that.
I used to make animated Christmas cards and stuff where I'd break out my trombone music
and transcribe it into whatever it was called sound is what was the command in the extended
basic.
So you'd sit there and put the entire transcribe the entire music into the language that
it would use in the basic, and that was fun.
That is so bitching, Dan.
I never knew any of that about you.
That's really awesome.
All right.
How about all these other guys in the room?
That's one thing we never talked about all day today is some hacks that people have
done.
Has anybody else done some hacks that they've never ever talked about?
You know, throwing one more, this was like more of a hack than anything.
But in the TI, Steve Jackson had a series of text adventure games.
There's like Treasure Island, Adventure was one of them, Ghost Town.
There's a bunch of them.
They were text adventure like InfoCom, but before InfoCom, and they will only accept two
commands like Go North, Take, Lamp, and stuff like that.
Do you ever hear those games?
No, but I can take your work.
What I found is if I got stuck in one of the games, there was 13 of them, if I got stuck
in one of the games, if I loaded a save game from a different game into a different Steve
Jackson game.
Yeah, a different Steve Jackson game.
It would mess the game up, it would take your existing game from Adventure and you loaded
in the Ghost Town or whatever it was, the Wild West one, it would mess it up enough that
you could find different things in there and learn about stuff that you needed to get
or what you needed to do and places you needed to get to certain places by doing that.
So yeah, it took, if you had a sword in one game, you'd end up having a stick of dynamite
in the other.
And you'd learn, oh, well, I got to do so, I got to find a stick of dynamite to get over
to this other part of the area.
So it helped out in some cases, but you didn't like endless nights going back and forth
trying the different stuff between the one and the other.
I spent a good amount of time on some of those doing that.
Did you keep the notebook that Flat 2 is going to tell you the throw away?
Actually, I did take notes on different things, drawing little maps.
I doubt it.
It's possible they could be in one of my boxes of stuff over here, but probably not.
See not everyone's a pack wrap, Hokey.
It's, you know, I got that notebook, it's in a box with my super Nintendo because I just
love that thing because I love Metroid and my wife's Atari 2600 and all of it works.
And I still have my PlayStation and the game genie in there.
So if I ever came around to buy in a television again, I could use that notebook.
I have to sit.
Yeah, that's really cool.
I didn't know you had all the gear.
Yeah, it's all kind of sitting in a box.
I mean, as long as moisture hasn't gotten to it, then yeah, I still have it.
If it has, then I have what looks like the gear.
As long as it dries out before you turn it on, moisture doesn't really hurt it.
Well, except rust, maybe.
Yeah, right.
I still have all, like, the old letters I got from my ex-girlfriends in a box.
Oh, crap.
Don't tell your wife that.
No, she knows.
She asked me why I keep him around.
I have no idea.
I have no idea.
I thought I'd keep him around for historical reasons, you know, because you always find like
somewhere down the line, somebody got famous and they, you know, wanted, wanted like
little bits of their history.
But then I realized now that that's not me.
That's that.
Yeah, Dan, those people are usually guys who went off the war and were heroes or who published
video games they made on the TI 99.
So I kept the wrong part, damn it.
Wow, that's, wow, that's, that's really cool, Dan.
Has anybody else got any hacks they want to, want to brag about or would entertain us
with?
All right, then I'm going to give you my sucky one.
I have been doing this whole show with a wireless headset that I, I kind of made myself.
I took an FM transmitter and I've got it plugged into my sound cards output and I'm using
my, my sands of, my sands of clip on an FM station tuned to the transmitter.
So I've been doing this all like wirelessly and I stepped out of the room a couple of
times throughout the day, but pretty much I never stopped listening to the conversation.
So I could fake it pretty good.
That is amazing.
That is really cool.
And I keep going to depth on how badly hacked that FM transmitter is because that FM transmitter
doesn't work for shit if you buy it, you know, right from the store.
You've got to open it up and do soldering and make antennas for it and stuff.
That is pretty freaking awesome, man.
Well, I thank you.
It died on me once.
The battery died because it's only about an 11 hour battery and we've been on a lot longer
than that.
So I had to plug in and charge it up at one point, these are my regular headphones, but yeah,
it's, it's been wireless all day.
I've been able to go around my house, you know, from, from here to probably 20, 25 feet
away on, on the different floor.
But what made you decide to try a big 12 hour show on that?
I mean, like I would be, I would just be too scared that it wouldn't work, I think, you
know, to risk it.
I have a wide splitter, so if it failed, I'd just throw my headphones on.
Okay.
Cool.
And what really made me want to do it was the headphones because wearing those things
for 12 hours would have killed me.
Yeah.
No, I believe you.
Yeah.
So that was, that was, I think probably the only hack that I had used today to pull this
together.
Oh, other than I, I got an extra, um, sans a clip that I used to play that music on and
I had that plugged into the microphone jack on my laptop, but that didn't work a couple
of times because I forgot to configure the fade in and it wouldn't work for my short clip
that I was trying to play.
It sounded good.
Otherwise.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Did you just never heard the clip?
I mean, I wanted to play.
Oh, I see what you're saying.
Dan, start about the infocom games reminds you back to the day knowledge, uh, those were
some of the most interesting games and what we found out making copies, uh, you know,
we were talking about piracy earlier, uh, is that you could only make a first generation
copy of the floppy disk, even with the most advanced, uh, backup tools of the day, which
was, uh, copy two piece and, uh, I don't know if you guys are old enough to remember that
one.
So if we want to play infocom games, we always, we figured out that during the, uh, phase
where it checked the disk, all we had to do was have a red, have a first generation copy
of any one of the infocom games.
So we all, we always carried, carried one that was the first generation copy around and
then we could make as, we could make as many generations of the rest as we wanted.
Oh, right on.
Yeah.
That's really good.
You know, I vaguely remember that now, not that you speak, you brought that up.
I remember that when, uh, they, they, how do they able to do that to prevent you from
making, uh, copy off of a second generation?
Well, we never figured that out, but, uh, what I, I, uh, keep remembering sort of the
Cold War escalation.
There was copy to PC and I think the other one, uh, was, uh, it was like this, something
utilities.
There's two companies cop, it was copy, I, I, PC and they were always the better ones, but
you always had to keep buying the new copy because there were two companies out there and
one would out there every time, uh, somebody would come out with a new copy protection
for floppies.
It would sort of shift one or the other would, uh, get the upper hand.
The thing is, uh, they couldn't, by definition, they couldn't include copyright protection
on their own product that they couldn't copy, otherwise the game companies would just
use what they did.
So only one of us ever had to buy a copy of the, uh, cracker, uh, that's wicked funny.
It took me a minute to figure out what you're saying, but like just hit me all of a sudden,
that's a wicked funny.
I remember some of the other schemes they used to do, like, they used to go and you'd have
to answer a question at the beginning of the game and it would say, what's the word
in the third paragraph in the manual on page 15 or one of the, one of the games I had
was they gave you this grid of numbers and it was on like a gray, grayish colored paper
and it was like a very weird yellow and it was so that you couldn't photocopy it, but
it would ask you to give you the two numbers, um, and it was, uh, coordinates, so you'd
have to look at like 100 going down the left and cross reference it with like 53 and
that number and where they met, met the coordinates where they met is what you had to enter
in to play the game and oh, that was terrible.
D and that reminds me of one of my favorite hacks and remember those, it was, go ahead,
I could mic and wait.
It's a whole different one.
Well, it, like Dan was saying, it was a real light red text on a, on a white page and
then a lot now back in those days, like the, uh, combat simulations, aircraft simulations
would come with a manual that was 50 pages long and we'd all go down, one guy would
get it and we'd go down the key codes and make, uh, copies of the manual because you really
had to have it by the game anyway and a lot of them, the copy protection was third word
on page 67 as well, but sometimes it cost us just nearly as much to copy the manual
is what buying the game would cost, but in those days, as long as it was $1 cheaper
to go to kinkos and copying the manual, that's what we did.
Yeah, it's not even about the money at that point.
It's the fact that you win your game became copying the game.
Yeah, the friend who, uh, who used to download games off of the Commodore games off of
the BBS is all the time and he played this one helicopter simulation like he started it
up so many times that he got like a group of questions that they would ask and he went
down to the Toys of Us and he asked the guy if he could see the manual because his didn't
come with a manual.
So he wrote down all the questions like we're to find all the answers to the questions
coming about of the manual, uh, and then he went back home and played his game.
Dave.
Oh, sorry.
Can you cut off?
Well, I remember the old leisure.
I don't think we've ever left Poke Talk yet.
I remember the old leisure suit Larry games, which were a little risque and they would
ask you a series like historical questions and things only an adult would know to make
sure you were enough to play the game.
I played that game when I was seven and I'm ever putting on a condom and banging a hooker.
I remember playing that game and me Spellum wasn't good enough to ever get any way and
trust me, it hasn't gotten any better.
And you still haven't got any way.
It's a good thing.
You put on that.
Poke, it's a good thing.
You put on that condom because you remember what happened if you didn't.
Yeah, yeah, you died of AIDS.
Not that you didn't die of AIDS.
It fell off and then it said, well, you wouldn't want to go on anyway.
All right.
Okay.
I mean, that's wild.
Yeah, Dan, when you said, uh, photocopying the book that reminded me my, my buddy Bill,
who's like, he's, he's in his 60s, he's his late 60s and he is like, he knows nothing
about computers, but he is an old school hacker and he hacks everything he touches has his
effect on it.
And it's just, it's, it's fantastic.
I love going to the guys house and just looking around because he's touched and modified
everything he's got and, you know, for decades.
And one of the things he taught me is that most photocopy machines cannot see yellow
highlighter.
So if you have an original document and it's something you're going to be photocopying
it off a lot, you take a yellow highlighter, you put a big X on it and you can see this
is the one you don't want to give out and you make photocopies of that and you can hand
those ones out and he, he learned that taught himself, they figured it out when he was a substitute
teacher.
So that was really important to him.
And I've used that hack for years.
Guess why they put some of that stuff in yellow, in yellow print on those, uh, DRM sheets
or whatever you want to call them.
Yeah.
That's what it was all about.
I was going to say that's exactly why I remember red print on white paper because it couldn't
be photocopied.
Uh, everybody just typed it into text file.
I remember a couple of games had a table with like a wheel, you know, uh, you, you rolled
around to one window, it had, it had the key word in it and you read, you read the response
in another window and so I remember that my friend, he had a whole chart that I think
he pulled, uh, I've been off the internet or somebody sent it to them, just like a spreadsheet
and we use that.
Yeah.
I was, I was starting to say before that reminds me of the time that I sat down and
memorized and figured out the money making game on the original Zelda, I played that game
until I figured out the pattern and I could within, it was not a random thing.
It was, it was a, uh, a pattern of a predetermined pattern that it went through as to which coin
would give you the money and within four or five, I forget now, but within four or five
turns of playing, I would know exactly what the pattern was and, and I could continue
from there and just loop the thing until the, you know, the rupees were full kept me
in the same here, internet high five.
I want to hear some more hacks, especially these old school ones, these are wild, who else
has got anything?
Nothing done yet.
All right, I'm going to, I'm going to play my audio file that I couldn't play before.
I was trying so bad to get this out for Ken, but it's, this really, uh, it, it's funny
because this is something that, uh, uh, uh, the Linux outlaws asked their audience for.
This was way back like when they were still in their double digits and, uh, and I mailed
e-mailed it to them and they never used it and I've never had a chance to use it.
So I want to make sure that it, it can be had.
It's for the taking its, you know, uh, creative commons, zero, I don't even want attribution
if you think this is amusing, take it and use it on your podcast.
I'll email you the original, whatever.
It's all there is to it and it was kind of faint, but I, I, it's definitely can be played
louder.
Can you play it again?
I, I barely heard it.
Yeah, let me cue it up again.
I'll try to turn it up a bit, but for just a second, you know, back at the point, nice.
That was other, other than just clipping out pieces of music in audacity to make like
ringtones, that was the first piece of audio editing I did and it's, it's never been used
or maybe once in a club show.
That could probably be something that you could use with, with a lot in, in what we recorded
today.
Yeah, I could, as you edit that, sure, I don't know if I'm going to get that crazy with,
I don't know if I'm going to get that crazy with y'all, but sure.
Yeah, that's true.
There's a lot of content here.
What is that clip from that was, um, that was the super friends, how they used to do that
little transition and they'd say something silly like meanwhile back at the hall of justice
or something like that.
And I just did my best impersonation of, of Ted Knight.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
no
I didn't even have the reference, right?
Two or a little bit more of that Kepler. You know we're talking about the planet the other day.
Yeah
in Kepler-22b, whatever. It did a bit more reading on the Kepler spacecraft.
It's bloody amazing. It is constantly stirring yet at 150,000 stars.
Like, for some reason I just thought I'd look at a star and it must look at another one and obviously, that
that wouldn't work because if there's a transit and probably miss it. But that's what it's doing.
Constantly, there's 150,000 stars in its field of view that it's monitoring at every single second of the day.
That's bloody amazing, isn't it?
That is amazing. Are you retracting your skepticism?
No, I'm still a little skeptical that that planet actually is going. We shouldn't know
early next year when Earth-based, bloody telescopes start to look at that planet.
When they, for some reason, they've got to work out, well, not for some reason.
They have to work out the mass of it, and once they work out the mass, they can work out what it's
been, what it's actually made of. But for some reason, they've got to get that with Earth-based
telescopes, and they can't do it until early this year, actually. But currently, I think there's
1,090 planets, so planets that's Kepler's, you know, has seen, and approximately 48 of them
have the potential to be in the habitable zone. Okay, but they're not confirmed as yet.
Yeah, actually, you know, I still need a few of them. I would have actually thought.
Moment, it's only actually three that they have said. It's that Galicia one that I mentioned
before. There's another one, which I can't remember the name of, and the one we discussed the other
day, Kepler 22B, is the smallest, so far, that they have found. But obviously, that, you know,
every other day, there'll be a smaller one, and then a smaller one and a smaller one.
You know, until they reach, they, I suppose, one day, they'll get down to an Earth-sized one,
so that's to be expected. But yeah, it's some interesting facts on it when you look into it.
Oh, that's cool. Thanks. I want to give a write-on to annoyance, who's in the room, but he's
muted for some reason. He said he, from the second find it again, he streams this whole show to his
squeeze box and then to his chumby, so he could, like, wander around the house with the show.
Is that what you're referring to, annoyance? And what has you so annoyed? I don't think he's annoyed.
He's an annoyance. I think we're so annoyed by him. So it didn't work. No, it didn't. I haven't
been annoyed by him not once. He's a good guy. He was at, uh, O-L-F. That wasn't a really bad one.
Was that door? Yes, sir. Yeah. Hey, door. Hey, Bane. Pretty good. I just got home. I literally
started the stream on one of the servers, and then I had to go celebrate an anniversary thing.
Did the anniversary of the Earth rotating around the Sun? No, my, uh, wedding anniversary,
because I'm so addicted to numbers to make sure I wouldn't forget wedding anniversary.
We got, here's the thing. We got married on O-1-O-1-O-4, because O-1-O-1 is four different numbers,
you know, O-1-O-1, and then four is the end. That's, that's great. And she accepted that. Yeah.
Nice. Congratulations, dark. Well, because I told
you what you have to say on a Labor Day, and my other son was born on it,
a Valentine's Day. I'm starting to believe you now. Yeah, and congratulations to annoyance,
just said it. I don't know if it came across, but yeah, he's absolutely right. Congratulations.
Well, how many years? Uh, eight, eight with a seven-year-old,
he is at the age where he laughs at everything, just because. Nice. That's, that's so cool.
So it seems like the stream went good. I was able to check in a couple times from my phone,
and everything will sound good. Yeah, for Japanese, it's just been hit by another
while he magnitude seven earthquake. Integral is going to be pissed that he didn't get his
natural disaster website. Is it his imaginary natural disaster website up? Well, this could be
the start of the end. Have they crossed the deadline yet? Are they before us or after us?
No, they're the same as us, because they're in 2012, about the same time we were. I guess it could
be the end of the call, or the worst call. We'll get nervous if we lose Peter, suddenly.
It doesn't happen until about the 24th of December, isn't it? Well, he might in
calendar age or something. 21st of December, right? He's at 21st, yeah. 12, 21, 2012.
I beg you to still have time to reserve your billboard. It doesn't happen until 2036.
Is that when a poffis is going to play out into us, isn't that? That's what I'd be worried about, yeah.
No, unless I got it wrong, 2036 is the UNIX clock, the 32 billion. Yeah, yeah, I heard the
sealant. Yeah, exactly. I think there's still one still on. I'm pretty sure that's when a
poffis is going to return as well, and that actually still has a little bit of a chance to play
on into us. Was that now like it coming or something? Yeah, it's got to pass us. There was a bit of
concern with that. I think it was 2024. It looked like it had a small probability of actually
hitting the earth, and now they know it's not, but depending on where it passes as it goes,
pass the earth, then it goes around the sun. When it comes back in 2036, if Earth nudges it's just
right, it'll come back and play out into us on the way back out. Can we send Ben asked like,
like, stopping it? After blowing out, stopping it? Yeah. Yeah, I'm sure it's 2036. Yeah, look like
you're needing. Yeah, I'm ready. I said the Turing scale, I think that's the only one at the
moment that's rating five and zero on the Turing scale at the moment. I don't remember to be honest
with you. Yeah, well, that's my prediction. We'll survive 2012, but I'm not, I'm not going to do
anything book any flights after 2036 just yet. You're going to miss all the good reads.
I tell you what, if you could think all the ways to die, I think sitting there on your
brand and watching a comment coming to what seven miles a second and play out into the earth,
that's got to be one of the better ways to get down it. I can think of a better one.
In actuality, if we get hit by a comet before the comet ever hits, you would catch on fire from the
heap. Yeah, from the A-burst. Yeah, there's a compresses the atmosphere. Yeah, still, we'll get
to watch it for a few days. Class, you something just happened to your audio. It got really bad.
Well, that's okay. I'm out of here. I'm leaving. All right, man. Are you still in Massachusetts?
Are you are you back in at your office? I'm back home. Okay, so you didn't go to that bakery.
I told you to go to. I'm guessing. No, I didn't get a chance. I didn't intend to, but my
friends just kind of kept me busy. Yeah, yeah, no worries. All right, catch you guys later.
Thanks for everything about you. Happy New Year, your class, too. Happy New Year, everyone. Yeah.
Take it easy, man. Happy New Year. Have a good one, dude. What about the
else? I'm sorry, do you have a couple of new shows now? I'm sorry. Do you have a couple new shows?
I keep seeing on G+. Another Android old that you talk about and then there was that command line
show that you kind of previewed the site for. Yeah, I'm doing now about five a week for
are being published the fifth one. We're stocking up shows, so we don't have to worry about doing
them every week here soon. Is that new show doors that going through pod nuts or through Linux
basics? Command line basics is basically its own thing. So, let's get the feed off of Linux
basics. That's what I'm getting out of where you're going to have as it was going to be. It's
only it's on the other day. It is its own thing. Looking forward to that. And the one
Dan was talking about, whatever he was calling his new show, he's going to put out.
Be smart, bitch, in the command show. Yeah. Because he's the show show, all right?
Corn show. Someone should have someone should have one called go to show.
That's not bad. All right, guys, listen, I am about spent and I've got to go to bed. So,
I would like to stop the recording now, but I cannot thank you guys here in the room and the
guys who were in the room earlier and the guys who put together the tech to make this work.
The people who helped in the testing room, the people in IRC who helped spot us with searches
and stuff. I mean, it's unbelievable the way that everybody that you guys pulled this together.
Guys and girls too, I mean, we have Becky on here too. I'm astonished at how well this turned out.
Not really astonished. I'm just I'm astonished that I was part of something that turned out so well.
That's I'm not used to that. And you guys really did. Everybody pulled it together so well.
And from the bottom of my heart, thank you to every single one of you. And hey, happy new year.
And just just wow, everybody in the room, a tip of glass, a round of applause. Just wow, thank you.
I was hoping you're the one who's been doing all the work.
Y'all, I didn't do any of the work. I just did the catch-a-man.
Yeah, thanks. Park y'all a court and listen to it all.
Happy new year. Awesome. Awesome. Thank you guys so much.
Yeah, you deserve a break, Pauke. You ought to be able to say you ought to be about ready to explode
after 12 hours. You need to get up out of that chair.
Like I said, I had this wireless headset. I've been to the restroom about a dozen times.
It was mostly the beer and the coffee I had. The coffee man, that one, right? But yeah, no, it's
it's cool, man. I've been able to walk away from the computer several times and it's been in
very good hands with you guys. It's been amazing. So I just I want to say thank you to everybody.
And I want to play the music out if you guys don't mind.
It suits me. Happy new year. Fantastic job, Pauke.
You guys are all rock. You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
Hacker Public Radio does our. We are a community podcast network.
The release of shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR who's snared like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out what easy
agreement is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital.found and new
phenomenon from Future Cloud. HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunar pages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released on the rare creative comments,
attribution, share, and I. He does our lives.
I've been listening to podcasts at 1.4 speed. I forgot how slow that is.
Hey, Pike, man, are you right there?
All right, well, I'm going to say it for him. Happy New Year, everybody.
Podcast out.
