Episode: 639
Title: HPR0639: Podcasts are not Radio
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0639/hpr0639.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 00:15:34

---

Hello, this is Ken, and before we go over to Drupes' HPR show today, I'd like to make an appeal for more shows.
I know I'm running the risk of becoming the Jimmy Wells podcasting, but we only have seven shows on the queue, which means we need 245 shows to complete this year.
Now, this can be easily solved if every person listening to HPR sends them one episode a year.
So, I'd very much appreciate it if you recorded something today, and even if you don't want to do all the editing and stuff, just email that show to AdminAttackerPublicRadio.org.
AdminAttackerPublicRadio.org. We have one more weeks of shows left, and after that we're running syndicated shows.
Okay, and thank you very much. I'll switch you back to Drupes.
All right, welcome to HPR. This is Drupes.
I'm going to be talking about a simple difference between podcasts and radio.
It's got a little pet peeve I have and it's something that I'm totally guilty of and
I just want to stop others from falling into this trap and that is real radio has a timeframe
that they have to fill.
Like they'll say this is an hour long show or this is a two hour long show and podcasts
do not have this timeframe.
Podcasts should be more concerned about like our show comes out twice a week or once
a week or every fucking day because you're awesome instead of our show comes out every day
and it lasts five hours long because there's a lot of filler in setting this our show last
this long most of the time.
Now I can take five minutes of content and if I was really good I could stretch this into
an hour long program kind of like the history channel or I can do five minutes of content
talk about my five minutes that I actually have and then let the listeners have 55 minutes
to go listen to something else man that would be great so don't play a little games
or don't do radio sounding banter just to stretch out your time.
It just waste other people's time like if you had a thousand listeners and we make one
minute of their time that's a thousand minutes that's that's some number of hours that's
a large number of hours that you wasted just for one minute of banter.
I'm really good at math in my head and like if you have a point or a joke and you know
you can go with that if you want to back up your point do it but don't make up points
just to stall for time because that just really gets everybody's time wasted.
And in order to not waste time that's been my point this has been HPR and I have been
listening to HACCA Public Radio, HPR is sponsored by caro.net so head on over to
HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA Public Radio, HACCA
