Episode: 85
Title: HPR0085: Faubackup
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0085/hpr0085.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 11:16:42

---

music
Hello and welcome to another episode of Packup Public Radio.
I'm DeepGeek and this episode was originally recorded in April of 2008.
This episode is a software review of Fallbackup and is part of our series on lightweight applications.
The lightweight application series is open to all HPR contributors and is OS agnostic.
Fallbackup is a command line backup tool developed at Friedrich Alexander University in Erlengen Nuremberg.
Fallbackup is interesting for two reasons.
The first is that command line nature is particularly given to automating backups.
And the second reason is that its way of backing up files creates a really easy to use system of versioning.
First, command line. Upon installing Fallbackup, I was immediately impressed
in that automatically inserts a script into the Etsy Kron.Daily folder, which gets run daily.
The script has the default directory is commented out.
So all I had to do was delete the hash symbol and voila, instant daily backup.
It was that easy.
By default, all the defaults can be overwritten by adding the Fallbackup.conf file in the Etsy directory.
It writes backups to a directory called slash backup.
You can create this in the root directory or create a partition for it.
Simply by doing so and pointing the Etsy FS tab file to the appropriate place.
What I did personally is I bought a spare hard drive and installed it on a separate controller
than my main disk.
I then set the disk to go into standby in about half an hour of no use.
For me, this is a good thing because I want to protect myself against my main disk failing.
Also, since the second disk is used only rarely, it simply is not used as much as the main disk.
You can also do a few advanced things with the target of your backups.
For instance, it will accept the backup directory being on an NFS share just fine.
But you do have to tell the NFS server to accept this machine's root user as a root user on its system.
You can also backup over SSH or RSH. The flexibility is there.
But it really made me fall in love with full backup though, is the way it stores the files it backs up.
Full backup in its default configuration creates a file structure where for each machine and each major directory,
it creates a sub directory with a date stamp and copies all the files into that directory.
Now, you may be thinking, wait a minute, that's a lot of files for a daily backup.
But does not store all those files.
Most Linux file systems support what is called hard links.
Basically, if a file is unchanged, full backup creates a hard link to the file.
Full backup maintains by default, but you can override this if need be.
Two annual backups, 12 monthly backups, and four weekly backups.
Now, if a file is never changed, full backup will store one instance of the file and create 18 links to the same file.
So the file will be stored once and will appear in many different directories.
Also, full backup takes advantage of sparse files, which means that if the file has blocks of null space, that space will be saved.
So, let me tell you what it's like to retrieve a file from backup with full backup.
It creates a regular file system, which means any method you want to use to get a file back will work.
You can use regular batch file management tools like LS and CP.
You can use a favorite graphical file manager like Rocks, Nautilus, Conqueror, Dolphin or Midnight Commander 2.
If you have FTP or SFTP surface, you can also pull files through that also.
This is all because it uses regular plain Linux files, so anything works on it.
If you want, they have a source for its site at filebackup.sf.net.
Let me set it phonetically.
Foxtrot Alpha Uniform Bravo Alpha Charlie Kilo Uniform Papa Dot Sierra Foxtrot Dot.
November Echo Pango.
You can preview the manual pages there, as well as make inquiries by emailing their mailing list.
If you decide to try it, I hope you will enjoy it.
Today's geek tidbit, let's have a little geek haiku.
Wily Quick Page eludes you handsomely.
Smack that mouse harder.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public League.
HPR is sponsored by tarot.net, so head on over to CARO.nc for all of us in need.
Thanks for watching.
Thanks for watching.
