Episode: 741
Title: HPR0741: HPR Community News for May 2011
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0741/hpr0741.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 01:47:31

---

Music
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and on the line today we have co-crunchier, say hello co-crunchier.
Hi, here's co-cruncher.
And we also have Alden Ezen from the Linux Basics podcast, say hello Alden.
How's everybody doing?
Not too bad, not too bad. Thanks for joining us today.
And first of all, let's explain why Alden is on, because you might know Alden from the Linux Basics podcast.
And they were kind enough to put out the shout that they have a mumble server.
And giving the on future of Skype, we decided that we would try out recording the show on mumble.
And the address is CH1.teamspeak.cc and the port is 64747.
And there will be a link in the show not to all this information.
And so far it seems to be working out pretty good.
So right now I'll hand over to co-cruncher and you can introduce the new host for this month.
So we had a few new hosts and welcome to all of them.
There's a slurry, dismal science and sense of men one.
Brother Red, Ari Gorn, Strider, Joel and Josh Knapp.
And thanks to all of them for joining the network.
And I hope you stick around.
Alright, let's do the HPR show review.
First of all, episode 716 was the HPR Admin.
And believe we had some comments on that show.
Sorry.
We had some comments on that show and basically it came down to,
are you, are there stickers available?
So if anybody is looking for stickers,
then just email Admin at hackapublicradio.org and we'll forward you on to
either myself, Poki or Peter64, depending on where you live geographically.
And we also mentioned that the Skype,
well we were using Skype call recorder.
And it turns out that it does record both, both sessions.
We have a few TV problems to work out with this mobile server.
But it's very enjoyable so far.
Episode 717 was my switch to Linux from Slurry.
And this was a cool show.
You're talking about green going from computers with green screens on to learn and Python.
Very interesting.
And then the following day we also had Brother Red,
how he got into Linux while listening to radios,
somebody plugging in on a radio station.
So this is, I think that was the first time anybody got into Linux that way.
At least on our little series.
719 was girlish with the language frontier.
And we were moving these up so that we can go through the language frontier
episodes and this episode was on accents.
The following day we had an interview by tattoo
up for the CLI magic, which is a Twitter
Identicate feed and funny the guys as he was on call 48-7.
The following day was Episode 721,
Lost and Bronx Theatre of Imagination.
And he wants to make it clear that it's not a how-to, it's a how-not-to.
But I don't know if any of you called Lost and Bronx's latest
what's turning into a mini-series.
Have you had a chance to listen to that yet?
On muting your souls before you talk?
Yes, I just to realize that I have to do that.
Did you get it?
I don't, I'm not sure I listened to this one.
Okay.
Okay, I'll move on.
Finding my open page here again.
Then we had Claudio with this continuing series of how to upgrade his PC
and I don't know if any of you guys are making PCs anymore.
Do you buy PCs or make them?
I was kind of inspired to make a PC.
I used to make robots, but actually making PCs sounds interesting too.
I just, I know Claudio has a specific purpose of mine,
but when you can buy a computer for like 300 euros from Dell,
all I know, I just can't justify building a PC
unless you really are building it for a specific reason.
So moving on.
The following day we had Claudio with how to be a safe computerist.
And he mentioned a book on how to use plants,
which is what plants you can eat, which is kind of interesting.
We had Robin Kathleen from the full circle podcast with an interview
about the Ubuntu manual project.
And then we had Poké with the Northeast Linux Fest review.
And I think you did a great review there and give a great feeling of what
I was like going on on the show floor.
Then we had a Mr. Gadgets with his journey through time and space.
And I know all of you have, he's uploaded a few more shows
and he does eventually get to Linux.
This episode was about OS 2 and micro centers.
Are they like a shop or something on using yourself?
Yes, a micro center is a general computing type electronic store here in America.
Okay, good stuff.
Then we had Latu with how to route you and mod your Android phone.
And disnal science and sons of men were on about sex, race and open source.
This was a particularly interesting one about minorities and women.
Yes, in not being represented in open source.
And I think not being represented in computing in general.
Yeah, we're underrepresented.
Yeah, true enough.
It's funny because my first, well, my second IT job, my first job in IT,
there was as many women in there.
My boss was a woman and there was as many women in the team as men.
So I have always assumed that it's a 50-50 balance.
Yeah, I mean, same here.
I often work in environments where there is at least a third of the people are women.
But it doesn't seem to be that usual.
Okay.
Then we had, again, Robin cattling with syndicated Thursday from the Ubuntu podcast,
a full circle podcast.
And I bumped this one up because he had just done an interview with the open tech conference guys, Sam Smith.
And they wanted it up the next day.
So I moved it up.
And then we had, you're a very good self-culture with Linux Fest Northwest, two facts on some interviews.
And again, just like Pokies one, it was great to get a feeling for what it was like on the conference floor.
You did a really good job on that one.
I was very impressed.
Thanks.
I was a bit nervous about this show because it was like the first time I interviewed people.
And I mean, you have to start some plays.
Yeah, exactly.
And that's what HPR is all about.
We're very forgiving.
And come back.
And for more or not, that's not to say I thought you did a fantastic job.
I found nothing.
I was completely interested in the conversation that was going on.
Not anything.
I had no criticisms about your show at all.
And then we had a tattoo with the ubiquity and potential danger of the RM command.
And he is, I've already discussed this with him on IRC.
And he is so wrong.
He's wrong.
But yes, yes.
I don't know.
I think it's probably a Mac point of view.
People come from the Mac background.
You don't know if you put it in there and it won't be deleted.
But my feeling is, delete the file, kill, die.
It's gone.
Tough.
It's gone.
If you want to move a file into a backup directory, fine.
But if you want to delete a file that's deleted, but no.
I've been a bit told in cheek here.
I do know where he's coming from.
Yeah, because I, I mean, I first thought, yeah, because I usually just alias the RM command.
It's not a list already, but actually to have a backdoor to get it back in just in case.
I like the idea.
Yeah, I must say one thing I do miss about this, this shows my age now.
But the first operating system I used was the novel operating sense system.
And they had this concept that once you deleted the file, they just mark it as deleted on the disk.
And they wouldn't overwrite it.
And then you could just go in and unpergise as an admin.
Yeah.
And that saved my bake in so many times.
You just asked the user like where it was.
And if it was a file that you deleted yourself, you could just simply unpergise.
And I don't know what Linux is really doing.
If the file is gone.
It's gone.
Yeah, it's gone.
Yeah, it's gone.
It's changed.
Yeah, if you're quick enough, you can turn off the PC.
And hope that nothing is written.
But yeah, it's gone.
They will immediately, well, pretty soon, start writing in that area.
Okay.
And then we had a Spixantech episode two.
These guys are getting a bit of a cult following here on HPR.
And they were talking about the non-existent hacker space.
Again, a very interesting show.
And Marcosi with too many packaging systems.
And this also started off a few threads in the comments section.
And I think he's got a point.
But I also think he's wrong.
Yeah.
I agree.
I can see his point.
I can see his point.
I can see his point.
Cool.
Cool.
Okay.
We better move on anyway.
The language from two of us next.
And then I had an interview with deviates about the Southeast Linux Fest.
Are you going to that?
Me.
It's a little too far.
Well, it's on the other side of the continent.
Yes.
Actually, it's probably shorter for me to go to New York than it is for you to go to.
Almost.
But then we had a JWP with this stop.
They went to 11.04 whining, basically put up a shoulder.
And also sparked a few comments on the comments section.
So if you're not subscribed to the comments.
Oh, that's something I did this month.
I forgot to mention.
And the show notes was on the homepage.
I made a under the subscription button.
I have now all the RSS indication done.
So we've got three feeds up there with two weeks of audio feed.
The MP3 they are going to speak speed.
And then we have the entire 16 gig archive audio feed from the MP3.
And then I've also put a link into the comment section.
Plus I put a link into the MD5 sums and the direct URL for the.
For each episode each of the MP3 episodes.
Actually, each of the episodes that are on the server.
So that way you can run a WGET script of that if you want.
Then we had Argon with Strider with my start in computing from Linux.
Going from an age-year-old with a motherboard.
And then his father saying that it's paper.
I thought this was cool.
Something I must do.
I love my kids to come up and offer to do that.
I think it's a really good way to get in to know about computers.
The following day was Joel, who you'll all know is Gorkon from the Linux link textual.
Giving us a short history on ham radio and how we got involved.
Kind of moving actually about getting his grandfather's handle and.
Kind of inspired me to get into radio.
It's kind of a topic that I think I'd be interested in.
But I don't know if I'd be technical enough to do it.
I found it interesting like how it's really used in emergency situations.
And it was funny to have a show where the father was so important.
And then a show with the grandfather was so important.
Like one after the other.
Yes, it's kind of like a.
So we planned that here, you know, heart-wrenching moments.
Tune in tomorrow on days of Hacker Public Radio.
The secret programming that's going on.
If that's it in the background, yes.
Then we had during the month, I ran out of shows.
There was no shows at all.
And I set out the call for shows.
And people responded.
One of the people who responded was nightwise with his night cast.
Wirelessly syncing contact to your iPad and iPod.
And even if you're not, don't have an iPad or iPod.
But you do have an Android device.
This is one worth listening to, a very good show.
And then to wrap up was Josh with denial of service and how to protect yourself.
And even if you don't have any threat of being de-dost.
This is a very good episode about how to, for very little money, relatively speaking,
to host a site that could potentially be slashed out of their, you know,
all of a sudden get a lot of people coming.
So that was it.
That was the rundown of the shows this month.
And in the queue we have upcoming shows, HBR News, which you're listening to.
And just before this show, which was on a mobile server, a guy called Dave popped in.
And I managed to snag an interview with him.
So that will be going out, um, immediately after this one.
We have K5 with an interview with, uh, Jason Kuralin,
a writer of Beakerboard.
Mr. Gadget's lessons learned, language from tier episode five on the Thursday.
Phoenix and Code Crunch here.
Botnets and DNS Tommely.
Yeah, that's an interesting one.
I have listened to that.
An interview with Tony Whitmore about camp 11, uh, dismal science, my favorite audio cast,
Mr. Gadget's, my Patelinix.
And finally he gets there.
Yes, folks.
It's Knobbix syndicated the Thursday.
We'll be, um, the full circle podcast, um, preparation.
He's done a whole series on, uh, preparation of doing his, uh, his show.
And the first episode is preparation.
And we'll be running those as well.
K5, uh, Indiana and Linux first, interview with Latu from Slacker Media.
Linux jazz, ball on the jack.
And then we'll have syndicated Thursday.
And after that, we're all outshows again.
We have 141 free slots, folks.
141 free slots.
If you want to take one of those and become 140 free slots,
then you can contact Admin at I can public radio.
So, that was that.
A good month on all and all.
Anything you want to add?
Oh, no.
I think it, uh, it looks good for now.
And then we have apologies to droops for not being there when you called.
And stankdog for calling them stank dwegg on that episode.
So, uh, moving on.
Do you want to do the first, uh, the first part?
The month in review.
Yeah, that's kind of my perspective of the month.
Because Ken, Ken went on holidays.
And I actually kind of tried to be a good admin during that time.
And it was a little bumpy because Ken went on holidays.
And the server felt the bond band and went on strike.
And later, there was this time where the server pretended that there is no more space in the queue.
And we almost ran out of shows.
And we're still looking for people to go to the, to do some HPR PR at the Southeast Linux Fest.
For which they will get two fantastic HPR t-shirts.
So there are lots of things.
I mean, we solved the server problem.
I think it was because the server got moved.
Yes.
And the space thing was not really that there was not enough space, but it was a configuration problem.
We got a lot of new shows, which is great.
But we're.
But it's important for people to remember that just because we got two weeks in the queue.
And two weeks time we'll be back again to this problem.
So people have to send the.
Okay.
And we're still looking for people to be at Southeast Linux Fest at the HPR table,
which it's only going to be on Saturday and Sunday.
So the, as I understood, the exhibition is not open on Friday.
So during those days, it would be great to have a few more people who could just be there and talk about HPR.
And get t-shirts.
No, I'm planning.
Yes.
And I'm planning on going to our camp 11.
So I think it'll be cool.
But you've actually done a booth.
And from what you've said and from what the Pokea said, it's really, really good fun.
It is a lot of fun.
I mean, it's fun.
Do you meet people that know about HPR?
And then you can ask them how they actually found it.
And it's fun because you can talk about HPR.
And it's just people that are interesting.
I mean, you get into all kinds of topics when you talk to them.
There might be no harm to grab a microphone and just have segments about how you found HPR.
Yeah.
Okay.
Anya.
And if you're going to the show, if you're going to be on the booth, record segments from people,
and we can add them to a kind of like what you did for, you know, atmosphere type show
or if they're long enough as pre-standings.
Yeah, I still have a few interviews.
The quality is really bad, but maybe we can let that out.
Let's get this clear.
If it's audible, it's good enough.
Okay.
Maybe I'll just put them in here.
Just very clear.
Do that, please.
Okay.
Now, switching over to the mail list for basically the rest of the show.
I want, well, mail list and things people have sent to Admin.
Earlier the month, tattoo in response to the bin rev, or to the interview I did with Stank about bin rev.
And it's important to remember that bin rev is but one parent of HPR we have.
We also have the Emponorma Calonco computer club and twat tech radio.
So I've been trying to get troops on to do an interview for that.
But he is annoyed that I'm not his internet boyfriend.
So he's not talking to me anymore.
So hopefully we'll get troops when he goes back from deal cashing or areas and get an interview for the other side.
But tattoo did mention that he wanted to put a mention of that into the outro.
And I was thinking we should actually see it as you know, you have the option of skipping over the outro.
But if it is a new show, it would be good at the at the outro to have a, you know, we are basically,
this is the text I have so far.
Hacker Public Radio is brought to you by the digital dog pound and the Emponorma Calonco computer club.
And probably somebody, if there's a sponsor there.
And it is a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
All shows are met by the community listeners like you.
For more information on how you contribute a show, please go to Hacker Public Radio.
And click on the contribute button.
There's no restriction on how long the show will be or on the topics you can cover,
so long as the Arab interest hackers.
And...
Yeah, bin rev is the digital dog pound.
Okay, here we can do that here.
Again, I just, as I was going through the emails for the show, I realized I had intended to reply to that.
And so now it's, I reply to it.
Speaking of the mailing list, people have had problems getting on the mailing list.
And if you have, please email admin at hackerpublicradio.org.
And then we had Ira, Irahoff, had a, put a Drupal site together for HPR admin.
And it says, I am a hoff.net forward such as PR admin one.
And you can see a Drupal implementation of the website over there.
And CodeCrunch, we need to actually, I think, schedule a mumble meeting some weekend.
And have everybody involved and actually make a decision on what we're going to do for...
Yeah, we're kind of having two experiments going on, one with WordPress and one with Drupal.
And we have to make a decision so that we can start implementing it.
And I'm, the more I'm thinking about the functionality that we can get from WordPress and Drupal,
even if they do everything, okay, we're still going to need to do some coding ourselves.
So I'm wondering, should we just expand the PHP that we have?
So I'd like more people.
Yeah, let's get to the next point.
I'm, I'm working on just creating an upload form and have a script in the back that can prepare the audio at the Intra and Outro
if it's not there and at the ID3 tax.
And I'm just doing that to kind of build up the expertise that maybe needed to kind of build up the expertise
to enhance whatever Drupal or WordPress can provide us with.
Yeah, I know.
So, but anyway, let's talk about the security issues.
Because that's something I do, I do know a little bit about security,
but if people could get on to the mailing list and maybe help me answer some of the security questions that I have,
because I don't know if I should password protect the form, what kind of security issues we can run in,
if people can just upload shows more easily.
I mean, we could get garbage shows that we really don't want so far.
We have like this fight club role rule for hack public media fight club rule.
Like do not edit for content.
But if we make it too easy, it could become a problem.
Okay, but again, I think we should spin off a working group and I'm asking people who have an interest in HPR
and an interest in automation and an interest in working with these sets to come forward and we'll get you included on this.
Okay, moving on, the books and the business card competition have been sent to some people
and more people are coming over to get them in person. So that's that's quite nice.
We've added a, I mentioned it already, MD5 script, lost in Bronx, ran a spell checker on the contribute page.
And I apologize for my incorrectness there.
And we now have a resident linguist on board.
So we're all, all, all cobbledons admin hackable to radio.org.
Now we ran out of the shows, core boot into was going to a log meeting and wanted a history of HPR
and which is why what actually sparked me to want to have troops on to do the second half of that interview.
So we would know more about it.
Basically, I kind of got into HPR via the Linux links tech show into bin rev.
And then from bin rev, I heard about in phenomenal column and in phenomenal column.
And I heard about to attack in circles.
I'm going to all camp 11 and their business cards ordered.
And then yes.
I ordered business cards for southeast Linux fest, but I just got to notice that they may be late.
Oh, no.
Wow, that's.
Yeah, fingers here.
I hope that they get there.
5150 was on the list to say he has the ultimate interview device. Have you seen that?
No, what is it?
It's like one of the Bluetooth earpieces with a finger pointing out that records video and stuff.
Wow.
So I don't know.
We'll see.
The videos they have on the website is very much, you know, somebody stand up still.
Look, panning left and right.
But as as they're walking the video goes left.
Yeah, that's interesting video interviews.
Yes.
And we can have Corba to send in a few emails onto the list, spark some discussion.
He wants to see if anyone's interested in creating a torrent cracker.
Torrent tracker for podcast, I'll cast some video cast.
He's interested in doing an advanced Android hacking series.
If anybody is interested, join the list and send Corba to an email.
And he puts together some HPR guidelines for some Linux fest, which I think you expanded on.
And I know I didn't expand on.
I just I put together what we have as a conference pack of just things to bring to a Linux fest.
But I think so far it worked well without rules.
So it's it's like more about the things that you can do at a Linux fest.
I think, you know, well, as I put my view on this was this.
I don't think we need to be that strict HPR has been fairly open in what they allow.
And people have been very good itself moderation.
So I wouldn't expect it to be any different when you see people face to face.
But it did bring up a point that it would be nice to have a wiki somewhere on the website.
That we could have pages like this.
I've been thinking about them for tips and tricks for requests for new shows for scheduling for.
Yeah, I added that request to the list that we have in our hobby public radio dot org site.
We have a list there with a rich list for the new site.
Yeah, and let's let's say now that we keep now in the mailing list,
but should we plan that in two weeks, perhaps we have a.
Mumble conference about how we're going to go forward with the updates.
Yes, yes.
Let's see who comes on board and what their schedule is that two weeks sounds good.
Okay, and then we had finally I got annoyed of trend micro blocking us.
So I sent them an email asking them telling them that we were a community radio station.
And I asked them to block us.
And they sent me a new bio back saying that's apologizing for the being blocked.
And that's we're not.
It was that easy.
So, yeah, I just sent an email that can be I was under a website trying to find any any reference to it,
but then I just fired them off an email and they said, oh, terribly sorry about that.
Now you're blocked, which is funny because we were coming up as dangerous.
And I know there was some spam on before, but I can't see how that would be dangerous.
And then I had an email, which I'm not sure spam, but Zigbee Keaton has written to say that James Turnbull has published his later book pro puppet to a press media.
And if anybody wants to get a copy of that book, I think they will give you a copy obviously and have them for an interview, then we can do that.
So if anybody wants to do that, that's fine.
And then the final thing is I sent out a RFC changing the show from CC by essay as changing the show from CC by essay and see non commercial to CC by essay.
So the proposal will be open for a month.
We'll announce the show on the mailing list and also on HPR news.
And if approved, then the default license will be CC by essay on less indicated otherwise.
And contacting hosts so that we can realize that there are shows as CC by essay.
A lot of people have already gotten back to me already given permission.
I mean, basically going to drop the non commercial part of the license.
Yes.
Yes, it's pretty much what Linus did originally his license was.
It's free to use, but not you don't allow to make any money out of it.
And you know, I was just thinking of going to the shows and buying, you know, USB sticks for I don't know, 32 gigabytes USB sticks around 20, 20 pounds, 20 euros, whatever.
And putting all the shows on them and, you know, somebody could pay cost for that.
But, you know, it's still that wouldn't be allowed under the licensing as it is currently.
So that's pretty much it.
Yeah, I think the responses in the mailing list are like very positive for this change.
And I mean, very interesting what people say.
Good. I'm, I was surprised so many people actually need the mailing list.
Normally, I just said, I'm going to do this.
And then there's a complete lot of silence.
So that proves my point that if you don't reply back to the mailing list, I'll assume that you're agreeing with me.
I think that's what's happening.
People don't want to flood the mailing list unless it's really important.
That's, that's pretty cool.
And Alden, are you still there?
Oh, wow.
I'm still there.
So, let us, let's have a quick chat with you about the Linux basics podcast and what this speaker or this mobile server is all about.
Well, long story short, just started out as Linux basics.
But one of the guy who donates the mobile server kind of wanted it to be about more than just Linux based six more for the community.
Currently, the name of it is OpenSpeak, but we do want, you know, we're flirting with some names and we're going to probably buy a domain name and just have you logging into the address will eventually change.
But we've already got to make cast pod nuts to take a geek show.
And now HPR on the mumbles over.
So we're really stoked that it's come together and everybody is able to.
It's an absolutely fabulous resource.
I mean, it was on the machine that I'm run on here.
You have a wiki on the next basics, which will be in the show notes, obviously, for this episode.
And it just explains how you install everything.
I didn't need to go through the hoops that's described in.
In the wiki because I already had the version needed to do the recording.
For most people, if you're not interested in doing a recording, then you don't need this version 123.
But if you are, then there's a little recording, which which we're using right now and you just press it, it saves the show.
And it's all very, very easy.
And I just installed it new, so I automatically got the version 123.
So what's the schedule like, Alden, how busy does it get?
So far, I know we do on when, excuse me, Friday evenings, a log around 830 Eastern Standard Time in the US.
And then around 930 attendees, we actually do the Linux Basics podcast.
And we stream that live, usually over just in TV or you stream.
And then, of course, we have the actual empty three in August on the website.
On Wednesdays right now, we're doing an LPI Linux certification study.
Everybody's welcome to join. We've already had the first little meeting, but that wasn't actually going over anything.
So this Wednesday, for anybody wants to come.
And whether or not they want to get certified, they just want to learn more about Linux.
Definitely urgent to come.
So far, I've seen the taking each show they recorded a show earlier today.
I haven't seen anybody in podness, I've seen somebody in midcast after our show last night.
So far, it's pretty busy.
And I'd just like to say, I've offered the guys there for the LPI certification that we reserve a Friday.
For them, if they want to put out their show encoder, unedited on the HP or network, because there is such an interest in Linux.
And I already started a LPI cert certification mini series.
So I think it would be really cool if you guys are interested that you could put it out on the HP or network or reserve a show.
Because it's only, I think you're only running it for up until the Ohio Linux Fest. Is that correct?
Yeah, it's going to be till August.
So that would be I think an ideal thing to support and promote on the HP or network.
If you guys the offer there, if you want to take it up, that's very good.
I'll definitely mention it.
I just want to make it clear to people that these guys put the server up.
We do have a channel on there. It's a bit like IRC, but instead of typing, all you need to do is talk.
It's really, really simple.
And it's a great way for people to record shows. I guess both sides could record, just press the record button.
So if you're interested in doing a HP or show an any particular topic, come on to this mobile server.
Press the record button and the way you go, talk and then submit it to us.
If you don't have the account information, send us an email at admin at hackupublicradio.org and we'll send you the magic key to get into the HP or network.
And likewise on Friday evenings, if anybody wants to come to Linux Basics, it's an open mic discussion.
We bring whatever topics we feel like talking about.
Sounds absolutely, absolutely fantastic. And I'd like to thank you all for listening to the show.
I'd like to thank the guys at OpenSpeak for making this resource available to the community.
And hopefully loads of people will take advantage of it, especially for multi-conference shows.
And with that, anyone else got anything else that they want to add?
I think we should also do the next community news with mumble and have other people join.
That's a very good idea, in fact.
Well, before saying that, I want to see how much of a hassle is to edit and record edit the show.
But from this, it looks kind of good.
And we could people come on and give reviews of some of the shows that they listen to in the mall.
So if you want to come on, we'll publish on the mailing list when we intend to do this.
And we can just jump on and let's do it.
Let's try.
Okay, thank you very much everybody, and I'll go edit this.
Yeah, good luck. I hope it's not too bad.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Republic Radio.
For more information on the show and how to contribute your own shows, visit HackerPublicRadio.org.
Thank you very much.
You
