Episode: 912
Title: HPR0912: How I cut The Cable Cord Part1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0912/hpr0912.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 04:48:08

---

Hello Haka Public Radio. This is Brockton Bob. I'm a long time listener, but a first time
contributor. I'm recording this podcast from the great Northeast Kingdom. That's no
England to those who didn't know. This is going to be a part one of a three-part series
on how I cut the cable cord and saved a bit of money in the process. And this podcast
will discuss the wife-friendly part, which is part one of cable cord cutting. Now, if
you have a wife or a girlfriend, you have to keep in mind. You have to keep this simple
or they will get pissed. They want to be able to just turn on the TV and search for something
they like and watch it. Okay, now a little bit of background for you. My wife and I have
had cable for about 10 years now. And we noticed the monthly bills were getting gradually
higher and higher until our last bill, which was $132 for the month. That also included
our internet service. So we both decided we had to get this bill down. It was way too high.
Now, most of the time we wanted to watch show. We were both working. We weren't home. So
we missed them and we didn't have a DVR because that was extra cost. So we would try and
catch the shows and reruns. So we decided we better do a little research and come up with
a better solution. And our solution was the Roku 2XS set top box. With this box we signed
up for Netflix streaming and Hulu Plus streaming. Both of these services are $7.99 a month.
We paid for the Roku box at best by $69. Now a little comparison. Now our internet service
is $30 a month. And our TV is $16 a month. That's a total of $46 a month. As compared to
$132 a month with cable. That's a savings of $86 a month. That's pretty good. So now we
get to see our favorite shows on Netflix or Hulu Plus. And most of the shows we like on cable
are on Netflix or Hulu Plus. The only thing is they're usually a day later than after they
aired. And with the Roku box you can get Amazon on to Man and Crackle which is a free movie
service. You can even get adult channels for free if you want them. All you have to do is
select them in the channel store or look for Roku channel codes on Google. If once you do
that Google search it'll bring up a ton of Google of Roku codes that you can enter and get
on to your Roku box. And the hook up was easy. All we had to do is register our box with
Roku on the internet. Then plug it into the TV with our HDMI cable and you're all set.
So if you'd like to cut the cable cord, give it a try and you'll save a bit of money.
So in part two, we'll discuss Play On Software for even more free TV. So thank you for listening.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday on day through Friday. Today's show, like
all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener by yourself. If you ever consider recording
a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio
was founded by the digital dog pound and the economical and computer cloud. HPR is
funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are crowd-responsive
by linear pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for
all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative
comments, attribution, share a like, read our own license.
