Episode: 781
Title: HPR0781: HPR Community News for July 2011
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0781/hpr0781.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 02:26:10

---

Hello ladies and gentlemen, you're listening to Hacker Public Radio
Community News for July 2011.
Hello everybody, my name is Kenneth Falman, it's just me today.
It's the summer months and the other guys are kind of busy.
So, let's go on with the show without further ado.
So, episode 7, 6-1 was Community News for last month.
And follow that, we had theaters of the imagination by Lost in Bronx.
Again, interesting episode that is tempting me more and more to think about doing a theatre production myself.
The following day we had Mr Gadgets with excellent new topic idea here for Hacker Public Radio.
The worst movie ever, and his nominations in reverse order were Highway Honies, 1983, Ring of the Musketeers TV Movie, 1992.
There's some comments by Frank who disagreed strongly and said that Kill Dozer was the worst movie ever made.
And I quote, starring Clink Walker and a bulldozer possessed by an alien rock.
Neither the bulldozer nor Clint Walker were capable of acting.
And the second was, Terror is a man, sort of based on the island of Dr. Murdo.
But without direction, acting writings, cinematography or creativity of any sort, harsh words there.
I was tempted to report a show for the segment worst movie ever, but I refused to accept that Highlander 2 was ever made.
So then we had the next day Robin Gattling on a sedicated Thursday, with an interview from Mash Grove of Miserware Energy Saving Computer.
And they had a piece of software that you could run on various different operating systems, and they would analyze this software and give you energy saving.
Always a good thing, I guess.
Then we had an interview with one of the first of quite a lot of interviews that were recorded, but not that many made it out.
I think everybody is aware that Tlatou had a recording nightmare every podcast or nightmare that the recordings get lost.
He had some very very good interviews lined up, but let's not cry about spilled milk and be thankful for what we did get.
And this was an interview with Dave Sexy-Eats from Lotta Linux Links podcast, and Jeremy Sans.
Just as an author, Tlatou always includes a link to the Aug version of the episode, but we do also have an Aug feed and a Speaks feed.
Not very well subscribed to at the minute, but they are available there under this subscription section.
Not all the shows are there, but quite a few.
Basically everything since for the last few months has been added over there.
If you want to subscribe to those, we'll probably be updating the pages to make it a little bit more prominent in the future.
The following day we had Mr. Gadgets saving us again by sending in episodes this time.
He continued his journey through the micro computer to Linux, stopping by OS2 Warp, and Windows 98.
If you're going to be putting comments onto the website, I would appreciate it personally if you could be a little bit more constructive.
Yes, if you're making negative comments, that's absolutely fine, so long as you are willing to give us some guidelines on how we can approve.
Then we had episode 767 with Tlatou, Mad Dog, and super dumb terminals, and this was a kind of update on a previous show where he had interviewed Mad Dog about using open source to provide jobs using open source.
Using open source software in developing countries or in densely populated countries, so it was great to get an update on that.
It was the comments there as well.
The next day was myself with a little episode on sort.
I don't know if anybody found it useful, nobody commented.
Listening to the episode myself, I was going on, what is this guy rambling about?
Anyway, hopefully, again, if you didn't like the show, please delete it, don't make yourself suffer.
So then the next day we had on our syndicated Thursday, Linux outlaw's Bitcoin discussion.
Now, I know that JWP wrote in to say that this show contained a lot of inaccuracies, and he has released another show that will be airing later on to hopefully address some of those.
But they did deal with some of the inaccuracies, I didn't feel that there were that major in their following show.
And it was regardless, it was a well-researched article, but at least we'll get people thinking about it.
And one good thing is it did prompt JWP to go ahead and record another episode, so we'll get another side of the picture, hopefully.
The following day was JWP with BYOBU, which is a GNU screen configuration utility.
How to use it, and so.
I have used that in the past and didn't have that much luck with it.
I found it very difficult. It had hanging dependencies when I installed it, and I couldn't get rid of it.
But your mileage may vary, I guess.
The following day we had mischief managed by Thistleweb, how to use cloud services, and how to keep your data to yourself, essentially, one going through customs.
And then we had a new age techno hippie with circuit bending.
This is a topic close to any parent's heart, especially when you have loud and annoying toys.
Then we had an interview with Gabrielle Weinberg from Duk-Duk-Go.
Sorry, switching into Dutch there.
An interview with Duk-Duk-Go by myself. I was actually shocked when to the website and said,
would you like to do an interview with a guy who goes, sure thing.
Took a few hours from his Saturday afternoon with kids and turned out to be a very nice guy.
If you haven't tried Duk-Duk-Go, give it a shot, you will be pleasantly surprised, I guess.
Then we had the full circle podcast, again with their series here in HPR, with providing valuable information on how you can record a show, properly, not like the way I do it here.
And then the long awaited HPR audiobook club Shadow Magic came out on the Friday.
Since then I've listened to the next book is entitled Handbook for the criminally insane.
Then we had Mr. Gadgets commenting again on how we are all spoiled by having pre-packed, ready-made hardware.
And he suggests that we all should make our own machinery and stuff, and I am inclined to agree with him.
We had male junkie writing in the comments to tell us that Radio Shack have kids to build robots and the like.
The following day we had Josh Knap, Voltez and Stankdog, three of the people behind HPR, Stank, and they are the people literally behind HPR, the guys who manage the servers.
So interesting topic on the cloud, some discussion, of course, when you bring up the cloud, there's going to be plenty of dissenting remarks, whatever you do.
Constructive comments there, thank you very much.
And if you have other views about the cloud, please feel free to record a show.
Now speaking of shows, I don't know if you've noticed, I usually start off this show by welcoming new holes.
Unfortunately we didn't have any this month, which is a bit sad, but I do realize it's because of the summer low.
What I would like to do is start a summer short series.
I'm hoping that at the end of this show people will record a Twitter-like audio update for us on any topic at all.
In the email that I sent out, I mentioned a tip, a useful application, useful website, nice podcast, somebody that you admire, best piece of advice your parents give you, worst piece of advice your parents ever give you.
Something you wish you'd known when you were five years younger, best movie ever, whatever.
Just a quick two, three, five minute thing recorded, send it in, don't worry about editing, don't worry about I'll do the editing.
I'll add the intro and outro, just email it to Admin at hackerpublicradio.org, what could be simpler.
And it'll keep the volume of podcasts down for a while over the summer.
And the first one was lost in Bronx, George Washington, Carver, never heard of the guy, very interesting read, linked their own Wikipedia.
Then the following day, Timbroke for review, met a reappearance on HPR, and this was Wargames, one of the classic movies.
And then on Friday, we bombed the show, which was Novakot by Tlatu.
The reason I did that was because they had a Kickstarter campaign that ran out on that evening.
I would like to give you a little update on what's coming up over the coming days.
We have Mr. Gadgets with some open source software, dismal science, libertarianism, and IT, a match made in heaven.
Syndicated Thursday, if you have some suggestions for syndicated Thursday, feel free to send them on in.
Quivno with by oral recording, droops with streaming from a sporting event, myself with a summer short how to grip for tab JWP with Bitcoin.
And that's about it.
So we are a little bit short of shows here for the upcoming month, given that it's summer.
If you could record a summer short, I really appreciate it. Send it on in email to admin at hackerpublicradio.org and we'll do the rest.
I want to say thanks to Scott Dix for pointing out that there was a bad link in episode 759, that was the Linux-based podcast.
And I want to really give a good shout out to all the other hosts who I emailed in the past for sending in the change of license.
And I do want to apologize to anybody who suffered from bad memories over the last month.
And the big news that broke just after we recorded the show last week was that we got reviewed in Linux format magazine under the Linux podcast roundup.
A few things to say about that. First of all, I had to spend 17 euros 49 to buy this, but it was well worth purchasing because the review is actually quite good.
Yes, we were ranked number eight out of eight. Well, we're ranked five out of 10. Essentially, it goes through explaining that we don't have regular holes.
And we encourage people to contribute. We have a new world order in the full circle on here. Due to its nature, length varies.
So does the quality of the content and audio. It doesn't discriminate, but you wouldn't want to listen to every show.
And absolutely right, if there is something that comes on here that you don't like deleted or better yet, listen to the show and send something in.
So thank you very much for reviewing. I really appreciate the the right up gives us a lot of exposure here.
I want to thank Jason Scott again for a new way to upload talk. I didn't get around to it yet, Jason, but I will try it if there's somebody out there who is familiar with Amazon SC3 and automating file uploads.
Please give us a call and see how we can automate that upload of shows over there.
We've got a new intro or sorry, a new outro recorded by Stank. You can expect a new outro coming up shortly in the show notes.
We are short of shows. Thanks everybody for responding to my begging yet again. And if you could do a summer short, that would be absolutely fantastic.
Just there now on one of the social networks, I could ask whether somebody would do an episode on the Internet snooping bill and setting up a tour network and how you protect your IP address.
And finally, I've been busy with putting a presentation together. I'm going to AgCamp in the UK a free two day on conference on schedule conference for anyone who loves anything related to technology, data culture, community, open source and more.
That's in Farnam on August the 13th and the 14th. I believe they're full up. But if anybody has registered in Canticle, please send in your ticket so that somebody else can take your slot.
We're going to be holding the booth there, hopefully. I still need to get everything together. If there's anyone who wants to give us a hand, please email me. Admin at Hack Public Radio. I would appreciate it.
I'm putting forward a presentation there. There are going to be about 20 minutes long. And I intend to give a presentation about HPR what it is, but I'm also putting in things like the number of downloads, the number of people subscribing, the amount of bandwidth, the number of shows, the number of hosts, that sort of thing.
If there's anything else that you think I should mention in that presentation, you know the email address. It's admin at Hack or Public Radio.org and you can make sure that I cover everything there.
I mentioned earlier on that I emailed a lot of people about the CC by SA and so far we've had 49 possibly 50 hosts agreeing, which represents some 376 shows.
And 76 hosts disagree or haven't replied back yet and that represents about 400 shows. And it's not as simple as all that because some of the old shows that people who want to license their shows, dropping the NC, they're not 100% sure that the music are parts of the content that you've used in their previous shows, whether they're free to read license or not.
So what we'll do going forward is we'll draw a line in the sand at some point and when shows are uploaded, we'll assign them directly to the CC by SA and then previous shows.
We will assume that they are NC unless otherwise stated and then it's a long arduous process, but I plan to go through every one of them making sure that everything's safe for us to use.
Okay, upcoming events, we have Ogcamp and Farmham August 13th and 14th and Drupesol will also send us an email saying that Freaknik 15 is coming up Nashville, Tennessee ladies and gentlemen November 4th to the 16th, 2011.
Okay, that's pretty much it ladies and gentlemen and have a good day.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Republic Radio. For more information on the show and how to contribute your own shows, visit HackerPublicRadio.org.
Thank you.
