Episode: 43
Title: HPR0043: Docdroppers
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0043/hpr0043.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 10:40:19

---

Who?
Hello, and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I'm Walt Herbert, and I'd like to talk just briefly the day about dockedroppers.
That's www.docdropeprs.org.
The site was set up as a wiki of the digital dog pound to not only function as a repository,
but also to showcase hacking-related information.
Of course, the site is primarily for the community, but as a public web page, it's also serving
as an ambassadorial page to those who may be researching hacking in its culture.
The articles range anywhere from programming tutorials to caffeine.
The content is inclusive of anything and everything related to hacking really.
Amongst articles on freaking Linux how-tos and custom antennas, you'll also find some
more obscure articles.
For example, bios of some not so famous, but just as noteworthy hackers, social engineering
techniques, and even military jamming procedures.
It's all there, and more is always welcome.
If you're just stopping by to check out the page, I would recommend using the random page
link on the navigation menu.
Hopefully you'll stumble upon something that you may not have even realized is of interest
to you.
Microsoft is contributed to and maintained by members of the community.
Over the years, there have been so many contributors that would be impossible to thank everyone
in the time allotted.
This however, by no means diminishes the gratitude or appreciation of everyone's efforts.
Anyone who wishes to contribute an article, regardless of which particular community you
may belong to, if any, may do so by simply registering at www.doctroppers.org and following
the directions on how to submit in the health section.
Word to the Y-zo, please do register as MediaWiki, while otherwise display your IP address.
Doctroppers is a not-for-profit page, so you may choose your work to be licensed under
the appropriate canal or a Creative Commons license.
This is done simply by tagging the end of the article.
You need not worry if the essay that you wrote for class or the manual you wrote for your
co-workers is appropriate for the site or not.
It's an edited site, so in the event that something is not quite appropriate, it will
simply be removed.
So there is no risk in submitting.
As mentioned before, the site employs MediaWiki, and because articles may be revised by multiple
persons and in some cases outright corrected, there is a degree of assurance as to the
integrity of content.
If you're just beginning to explore the hacking world, much like myself, I'm sure you can
appreciate the importance of accurate information.
The MediaWiki set up also allows articles to be easily searchable as well as categorized,
and this is especially useful if you're looking for information on specific subject matter
in a hurry.
As of late, doctroppers.org has also been functioning as a sanctuary of sorts.
There are some people on Wikipedia who have been somewhat, and let's just say they've
been somewhat over-revisionist in their views of what is notable enough to be considered
a Wikipedia article and what is not.
Apparently, a large amount of hacking history is not notable.
And at time when the common media is tarnishing the meaning and history of hacking, to have
the positive aspects emitted from a repository like Wikipedia is especially disheartening,
the rejected articles must be preserved.
So rather than battling for consensus, we've simply been moving articles over to doctroppers
one by one.
If you would like to help in this process, there are also detailed instructions in the
doctroppers help section.
Regardless of your contribution, your assistance would be greatly appreciated.
And speaking of contributions to the community, if you would like to record your own episode
of HPR, you may do so by visiting www.packerpublicradio.org and clicking on the link that says contribute.
Thank you for listening and have a good day.
Thank you for listening to Hack Republic Radio, HPR is sponsored by Carol.net, so head on
over to C-A-R-O dot-E-C for all of us in need.
