Episode: 657
Title: HPR0657: HPR Video Proposal
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0657/hpr0657.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 00:29:00

---

Music
Welcome to Hacker Public Radio.
My name is Drupes.
Today I'm going to be proposing Hacker Public Radio Video.
So recently, as well as when HPR was being started, some people have wanted to do video
recordings.
Now I'd like to propose a solution to this often requested feature.
There's been many problems that have been brought up about this video idea, and I feel
I have a solution to all of them, including it in this proposal.
Now I don't run HPR, though I was involved in the founding.
And this discussion was going on on mailing lists, on the mailing list, and IRC, private
emails, other places.
And I wanted to bring the conversation to the audience as the show is run by the audience.
Now I'm going to begin with some problems and get your problem solving gears turning
in no order.
HPR is radio, not video.
It's in the name.
HP TV or Hacker Public Radio Television or Hacker Public Video, whatever it's confusing
and it screws up branding.
There's already video shows that people can use, like Hacker TV, for example.
It's hard work creating video, bandwidth and hosting, to space, it's limited.
Some are unable to view video on portable devices.
Video will overtake audio content.
It's just bad.
You can get off my lawn.
Now all these problems are avoidable, even the changes are bad part.
And there's a lot of positives for having video.
We can grow our community.
More topics are accessible, lots of things that I want to do.
I really been trying to figure out how to do in video for like years now, or trying to
do an audio for years now.
More interesting content can be produced.
You know, a capture of a screen session is really, really boring in audio, but could
be somewhat exciting in video.
You could see more of my pretty face because I would like to do a lot of these videos.
And it's also easier to have our video content syndicated through other blogs and things
like that.
Like Make Magazine doesn't really, or makes blogs, excuse me, doesn't really say, hey, listen
to this audio somewhere.
And say, look at this cool video of somebody doing this.
And I'd like to have more, hey, look at this cool video that was HPR content.
So anyway, that was a long way of getting my proposal.
Now I think we should definitely release video under the HPR brand.
Here's the kicker.
A regular audio show to accompany the video must be produced and contain different content,
which means not just the audio of the video.
So I would produce a video for say about me and my kids shooting off rockets because
building rockets is awesome.
Audio for it wouldn't just be my kids sitting there waiting, screaming, daddy, let me
push the button, and then just like the video would be.
And so the audio would be different, excellent.
That's a great idea, Andrew.
So even if your audio does actually work as a standalone thing in your audio, you'd
want to say, why don't you go to this link and view the video or you can find the video
here.
So right there, your audio is different than the actual audio in the video.
So yeah, there we go, HPR episode with an accompanying video.
Now videos should be released on hosting sites like Vimeo or archive.org.
So that would cover our bandwidth problem and custom URL from hackerpublicaready.org should
be created.
So you could see hackerpublicaready.org slash droops kids shooting rockets, whatever.
This eliminates bandwidth problems.
It allows audio only people to still have audio content.
So they're not having to listen to dead space in video when it's just dead space in audio
in the audio part of the video.
Man, that sound confusing.
Everything stays as radio, but some episodes have bonus video content.
Excellent.
Now creating videos hard and this will keep it from overtaking audio.
I mean, really, if every episode had an accompanying video, that'd be awesome.
Now if people wanted to contribute to existing shows, then they would.
Community members of HPR want to contribute to HPR and we should let them.
Come and say, no, we don't want your community content.
If the community accepts this, I would really like to create a short 10 second intro and
start creating my first video and I'd also like to help create any code needed to make
any of this happen and get that rolling.
Yeah.
So what I'd like to do, we'd like to have some video.
We'd like to have an accompanying audio that goes with the video and the audio be a standalone
HPR episode that has that bonus video track going along with it.
That would be awesome to me.
And anyway, my name is Drupes and this has been Hacker Public Radio.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio, HPR is sponsored by Carol.net so head on
over to C-A-R-O dot-E-T for all of the team.
