Episode: 224
Title: HPR0224: Installing gwibber webkit
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0224/hpr0224.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 14:17:29

---

Yes, all right.
Hi, I'm 330, you're listening to Hacker Public Radio and this isn't a copy
fight. Today I'd like to talk a little bit about social networking. Now if you're
anything like me, social networking has really kind of ruined your life. It seemed
like all you ever do is sit around looking at people talking, not necessarily to
you. Or you're cleaning out your inbox because of all the damn updates you get
from Twitter and Identica and Facebook and my face and just all the other
things. Well, what can you do about it? Well, Ryan Paul from Ars Technica wrote
this really really cool app called Ghibber. It's dope for GNOME. I think you
could probably get it running in KDE if you wanted. But what it does is it
takes big flicker, Facebook, Identica and Twitter and matches them all
together into one timeline. And what you can do is you can set a custom color
for each of the different protocols that it's using. What I did was I would just
open up all the home pages, take the color chooser and click on the logo of
whatever I was using. So Dig showed up as a special kind of blue color and
Twitter came up that kind of turquoise color. Flickr, I used the magenta that's
in the R and things like that. And what it's done is it's really really made
social networking easy. It's just an app that you can have open on your desktop
or it'll pop up with little balloons so that you can see each message as they
come in. So you don't have to really put a lot of time into it. It's just a
quick glance. It doesn't take long to read 140 characters. And in the new
version there's a little, it looks like a radar. But what it is is it's counting
down how long that balloon's going to be there. So you know when you get a whole
bunch of them you see how much time you have to read each one. And when they're
done, you know when you're done with that when you can just click on a little X or
you can just let it expire. It's actually really really cool. And later on I'll
be describing how to install it because it's kind of iffy right now. It's it's
in an alpha stage or so. Okay here's how you install Guiver on Ubuntu. My way to
do it is based off of SegFaults original one which is on wiki.abuntu.com slash
Guiver. But I actually compressed it into just a couple of things. First you
want to you want to edit your slash Etsy slash app slash sources.list file.
You want to add these there's three lines here. Deb space HTTP colon slash
slash ppa.launchpad.net slash guiver.dash team slash Ubuntu.deck.
And start Ubuntu space hearty space main. Then Deb.src space HTTP it's
same thing. Then you want to add Deb space HTTP colon slash slash ppa.launchpad.net slash
s temp slash Ubuntu space hearty space main. If you're on intrep it you won't need
these next lines. But in hearty you do it's to get the web kit out of ppa which is Deb
space HTTP colon slash slash ppa.launchpad.net slash web kit dash team
space slash Ubuntu space hearty space main. And the Deb src for that. All this
will be in the show notes. Then you need to do a serious app to get. He had this
broken up in several places but I just crammed them all in together and it worked
fine. So you'll need to run pseudo app get space install space bzr subversion live web
kit. I'm not your rebate. There's a bunch of them it's like 10 15 things. They're
in the show notes just copy and paste it stick it in there and it'll run. Then do
a app get update. And then you'll need to pull a pie web GTK out of subversion which
is sbn checkout HTTP colon slash slash pie web. Pie web kit GTK dot google code dot com
slash sbn slash trunk slash space. Pie web GTK dash read dash only. Then you'll
want to CD into that which is he's got here dot space CD space. Pie web kit GTK
dash read dash only. I think the last time I installed it I didn't use the dot
there because it wasn't going to the right place for some reason. But after that you
do dot slash auto gen dot sh space dash dash prefix equals slash user slash local. Then
make and then pseudo make install. And then you want to download the web kit UI. So you
just CD into your home directory which Tilda should do it. And then a BZR space branch
space LP colon. Tilda seg fault s e g p h a u l t slash whibber slash web kit UI. And
then you'd there's two ways to do it. You can run it from the directory which you just
CD into Tilda slash web kit UI. And then do dot slash run. Or you can just install pseudo
Python setup dot pie install. And that'll it'll totally do it. Again all this will be
in the show notes. This has been 330 and hacker public radio. And now you can go install
glibber. Have fun.
Thank you for listening to hacker public radio. HPR is sponsored by tarot.net. So head on
