Episode: 28
Title: HPR0028: Project Chanology
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0028/hpr0028.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 10:27:09

---

Hello, this is Luke Zero, your host for today, 2008, February 7th, and today we will be
discussing Project Chanology.
By now you've most likely heard of Project Chanology, which is also referred to as Anonymous
Versus Scientology in a DDoS War.
Now I'll be trying to fill you in on many of the points to the story that are left out
in most reports of the situation.
So far it's been reported mostly that this crazy hacker group is DDoSing the Scientology,
which is a religion or cult depending on which country you live in.
I'm going to explain a little more about each group, because it's not explained well
in many of the news reports I've read, and unless you're looking into this yourself,
you're pretty much unaware.
Now Anonymous, while this group, which is actually more of a collective, is commonly
regarded as an unknown organization of super hacker internet bullies, there's more
to it, actually that statement is quite inaccurate really.
Each Anonymous acts on his or her own and is not responding to anything other than perhaps
a mere suggestion.
On initial form thread postings, there were many Anonymous that deemed the suggestion
of the DDoS pretty stupid, and even those with sympathy towards Scientology.
The idea behind Anonymous grew out of a popular image board, and multiple image boards
at this point on the net, where users are encouraged to post anonymously, when you post
it would pop up as Anonymous, and the only way that you could specify a certain person
is regarding the post number.
Now this caused many to post without care, making it appear as a group of the most politically
incorrect assholes, so to speak.
Of course to some it becomes easy to fall into the bullshit, this goes for any kind of
social clicks, however, if in one of these clicks everyone looks, talks, and appears to
act the same, the opinion of one may easily seem to be the opinion of all.
Now if all of this is added up, it's easy to understand why so many regard Anonymous
as an evil hacker organization, even though what it is is really just a bunch of people
doing their own thing.
Information on Anonymous is scattered.
There should be a few good links if you Google Project Genology, and maybe add stuff like,
I don't know, Epic Win, or I heard you like Mudkips spell like wrong in that part, maybe.
Now Scientology started in the 1950s, Scientology is based on the teachings of the book Dianetics
written by Eloran Hubbard.
Though being heavily biased against psychiatric drugs, psychiatrists, and even medications
altogether, Dianetics contains helpful advice for life in general and can easily be used
as therapy to many.
The church offers communication courses as well as many other classes in order to allow
one to increase their level towards the bridge to total freedom.
It separates the mind as reactive and analytical.
The reactive mind, said to be caused by traumatizing past experiences, is what causes one to
do certain things without good reason.
The analytical mind operates similar to a computer, making decisions and acting based
off of giving information.
Once one frees themselves of all things feeding the reactive mind, they are known as clear.
The church has many critics, due to its unappealing history involving defraud, blackmailing,
murder, and even bugging IRS conference rooms during meetings regarding their tax exempt
status.
They are also frowned upon by many for operating in a bait and switch manner, charging for
their beliefs, and are giving a hard time for the later level beliefs.
Look up the word Xenu for that one, Xenu.
Now of course more information is easily available for Scientology and can be found at Scientology.org,
as well as Xenu.net or XenuTV.com, both of which are critical of the church.
Now the whole project technology thing began about the 16th of January, when there was a
post online by an anonymous stating that we should really deduce the Scientologists
right now.
Other websites, because of course this will stop them, of course it didn't stop them.
However, he went into a little more detail, citing Scientologists' fair game clause, which
is pretty much we can do anything and everything to stop any suppressive person as they call
it or SP.
Now of course a lot of people went along with it, maybe kids, who knows who, they were
all different people acting on their own who decided to listen to this guy and start
dosing them at a specific time.
So that's what happened.
But it did gain a lot of awareness towards what Scientology is, has done, and is currently
doing to stop people in their tracks at trying to decredit the church by any way.
Now what they didn't expect is a bunch of members of that church, possibly, who knows
if they were, who knows if they weren't, to deduce them right back, which started
the whole anonymous versus Scientology War, as some like to call it.
What's happening currently is protests are going to be held the 10th of February to bring
awareness to what the church is doing.
Now this is, whatever anonymous came up with this idea, is a little more level headed
than trying to deduce a website.
But the fact that they saw what was going on and decided to act in a way that made many
others feel the same way, much as the original deduce attack did.
But of course, as hackers, generally we know that it only takes one person to bring down
something with enough resources.
And also we generally don't do this as individual hackers because it just isn't the way to go
about solving anything.
For now we'll just have to wait and see what goes down on the 10th.
Again, this is just another story about the evil hacker and how now they're attacking
religion.
But of course, if you look a little further into the details, that's not the case.
Again, this has been Slick Zero for Hacker Public Radio.
I hope you've learned at least something from my show today.
Have a great day.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net, so head on over to C-A-R-O-DOT-A-C for all of her team.
