Episode: 237
Title: HPR0237: Creating Identification Cards Part 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0237/hpr0237.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 14:37:25

---

I hope.
Everyone says Class 2, this is Hacker Public Radio, and this is, I guess, Part 2 of what
is now a two-part series on creating an alternate identity for one's self.
Pretty easy stuff.
Last time we talked about the actual, probably the hardest part, the actual creation of
a fake identification card to recap on that.
One of the best ways, the best things that you can do is to become an out-of-state person
for your state, you know, so your ID and your school ID and all this other stuff is from
out-of-state.
One of, last time I talked a little bit about some of the handy stuff to have in your wallet
to sort of support your alternate identity, like, you know, bus pass, college IDs, state
ID, business cards, things like that, you know, whatever you can come up with basically,
and most of that stuff is really easy to make.
One of the other things that is easy to acquire and will help immensely for your fake identification
is one of those gift cards.
They're from Visa and Mastercard and made me American Express and they look for all intents
and purposes like a normal credit card.
But the cool thing is that you can associate really any name with them that you so desire.
So if you're making purchases online and having things shipped somewhere, you can do it
with this credit card, this gift card, and there's really no verification to be done.
It's you get to put in whatever information you want.
So if you're purchasing an internet site, for instance, and you're not too keen on
the idea of having your actual information in the who is search, then you can, when
you're registering the site, put in your other identity and pay with it via a gift card.
And really there's no way to verify that kind of thing.
And of course, that's exactly one of the ways that you can further support the existence
of this other person that you are claiming to be an internet site on the interwebs.
Have that, have it registered to that person's name, to whatever address you so choose.
Make purchases in that person's name to kind of get that person's name out in the system
as it were.
Now, and that's sort of just online stuff and maybe luckily right now that's not bullet
proof, people don't necessarily take identity confirmation via the internet quite as
hard and fast as they will, for instance, an identity that is being able to be confirmed
by, of course, the telephone company, everything starts at the telephone company, right?
And it's true with identity as well.
If you've got a telephone bill in a name that you claim as your own, for all intents
and purposes, that's it, you're in, you're good to go.
Now, if you take that bill to the library or to a school that you're signing up for classes
at or, you know, just whatever requires identification confirmation.
Your fake ID and its telephone bill, that is pretty much gold to most people.
That means that all that information is totally correct.
So the way to go about doing that is you just have to do it in person.
I know that, you know, you get a new apartment and you call the phone company and you just
do everything and it only takes like half an hour and it's miserable, but it's fairly
fast and you didn't have to leave your house.
Can't really do that for this.
You have to go down to the telephone company and these places are usually hidden away
off of the main bus line, way out, you know, in like the worst part of town, but you're
going to have to have to do that.
It's going to be a nice little day trick for you.
So go down to the telephone company, have your little ID with you and you have to just
act like you're, you know, brand new to life.
Like you just got out from school yesterday and you have to act like you don't have credit
cards yet because, you know, you just got started or maybe you just never really got
into credit cards, you know, whatever, or maybe you have bad credit and you just don't
do it.
So you go in with cash and your ID card and you establish a phone account in that name
and you pay in cash and you're probably going to have to continue paying in cash.
Although these days it's a little bit easier to do the whole online payment thing and again,
you can pay with these magic gift cards that will enable you to, you know, pay without
really associating any name to it.
So that's, that's going to help a lot if you get a phone record because the phone record
automatically, I mean, you will start to get all kinds of wonderful junk mail from that.
You will start to get all kinds of spam phone calls from that.
You will get junk mail spam calls.
Oh, you will get, you know, the interwebs will have that name and that, you know, that
person now exists in, you know, they'll exist in whitepages.com.
They'll exist in, you know, all the, all the, all the, the identity checking sites and
stuff like that.
So that really kind of, that helps establish the person's existence really, really well
a phone, a phone bill.
And of course, the phone company, I mean, they'll give, you know, you pay them in cash
and they'll give you a bill.
They're fine with that.
They will, they will establish phone service for pretty much anyone because it's considered
a, you know, an emergency kind of feature that you have to have in your home.
So that's, it's fairly simple to, to establish that.
Oh, let's see what else.
That's one of the biggest things is the phone company.
And just getting your name out in other utilities once it all kind of branches from the phone,
the phone bill literally, I mean, go to the library, get a library card.
That's not a big deal, but at least some, you know, it's just one of those things that
will, you know, will kind of establish you as this, as this name at this place.
If you, you know, if you, if you have the phone bill, you can also probably get, for instance,
an internet bill in, in that particular name.
The difference mainly is typically I have found that it's just easier to do that kind
of thing in person.
There might be ways to do it online, like really gift card and stuff like that.
I don't, I never really looked into that.
But doing it in person really helps establish things.
Now having these kinds of proof of existence means that at some point farther down the
line, the next time you apply for an apartment or something like that, sign a lease, you will,
you should be able to sign that lease in the name of your alternate identity.
Because again, just having that kind of proof to people usually means that it's just
unquestionable.
They, they take that stuff as good as gold.
The only thing you'll have to fake when you're getting an apartment is credit checks.
And that's a difficult one to, to do sometimes because they are a lot of landlord to pre-series
about that.
They want credit checks, they want to do the credit check themselves, et cetera, et cetera.
Finding an apartment is a very stressful situation, it's very hard.
Not fun, I know.
But if you're in a situation where you know the lease that you're in right now is about
to expire and you are kind of looking for a new place, then finding a landlord who
either doesn't do credit checks or who will let you do your own credit check is a lot easier
because you're not as stressed.
And if you find someone who will let you do your own credit check, you can go to that
one site which I know I will not remember.
I believe it is called freeannualcreditreport.net, I think.
Something like that.
It's a cheesy looking site, darn, I don't know what it is, annual free annual, annual credit
check, whatever it is, it's, it doesn't require any kind of, you know, you don't have to pay
for it, you don't have to sign up for anything for it.
It's supposedly something that our friends in the federal government are providing us so
that we can keep track of our also important credit score and stuff like that.
So you can go to that site and you can choose between all three big different, you know,
credit checkers like the Experian, Equifax and the other one.
If you've ever had a credit check done by any of them before, it's probably a good idea
to go to a different one because otherwise they'll have, you might have to sign in with
your account information and stuff and I never remember what that stuff is.
So if you go to one that you haven't done before, get the credit check, you can take that
credit check, you know, they'll let you down, they print, they'll let you print it.
So print it out to PDF and then just take the PDF into GIMP and do all kinds of rehashing
of information and give that to the landlord and a lot of times that's all the landlord
will need is a printed copy of something that says it's a credit check and if it's got
all kinds of fake information that matches your other fake information, it's pretty much
as good as real information and so that works out pretty well for everyone.
Another way to get around to credit reports or credit checks is if you have to, it's not
a bad idea to, I mean, if possible, have all the money up front and I mean all the money.
Like first month, security and maybe even like second month, just for kicks.
If you can have that kind of money when you go to look for an apartment, a lot of times
that will persuade the landlord to be less hardcore on the credit checks.
Ask them if they'll go the credit check.
If you've got all the money up front for the first, you know, two months in security
deposit, just tell them, you know, oh, I've got really bad credit, I just, but I'm working
my way out of it, you know, I was young, I was stupid, but I'm so much smarter now,
but I just know my credit checks is going to be terrible.
You know, that kind of deal.
Just see what happens.
Like I say, that's the hard, that's sort of the hardest one because typically when you're
looking for an apartment, you're just really, really stressed and you just want to get
it over with and you just want to get an apartment.
So you don't want to go screwing around with like trying to be turned down because you're
freaking the landlord out by, you know, trying to evade all this sort of identity checking.
But if you are lucky enough to get a situation where they don't need that, then that's fantastic
or if you can fake it, that's great.
And of course, having an apartment in the name of the identity whom you wish to assume
is fantastic.
I mean, that's a really strong point as well.
Again, you get to suddenly get all kinds of junk mail.
You can, I would even sign up for some junk mail just to really make sure that the name
and the place is being circulated.
They'll start popping up on all kinds of places, you know, it'll, it'll, it'll start
being pretty, pretty solid.
The only thing you will not have from any of all this is, you know, a social security
number.
And I just don't find that social security numbers are really usually needed that much.
So I would not, I wouldn't worry about it too much.
Sometimes they are.
And sometimes if you are choosing a name that's very close to your real name, you can
actually get away with it because a lot of times they don't cross-check security, social
security number and the actual name, they just take the social security number down.
I think possibly most of the as a reference sort of like that's your little number.
That's your account number practically.
So as long as you're giving consistent information, consistent fake information so that you know
it and so that everyone else knows it, a lot of times that kind of consistently fake
information like I say is basically as good as true information or real information.
And really there's a strong argument that it is as good as real information because
I'm not sure how many people have the business of knowing all of your personal information
anyway.
So just having reference points is what matters more so than being able to recite what
the federal government has given to you as your identity or given to you as your number,
you know, stuff like that so there is that argument.
Hope this has helped.
Have fun.
Don't do anything that will get yourself into too much trouble.
And good luck.
Thanks for listening.
Thank you for listening to Half Republic Radio.
I'll see you next time with more responses by caro.net so head on over to C-A-R-O-DOT-E-C for
