Episode: 455
Title: HPR0455: Interview with Dann at OLF
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0455/hpr0455.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 21:01:59

---

music
All right. I'm here with Dan Washco of the Linux link tech show. Dan, how you doing?
All right. How are you doing? Good. Kind of mad. See, not only is he smart, but he's sexy.
He helped me with the audio issues today. God knows her. Plenty. As usual.
It's a fury. I think it's an audacity issue. And I've had that happen before I know
on the other feelings. I remember a couple years ago, same thing you hit record.
It was for like a second or two and it just stops and you're like, what the hell?
Yeah. I've never had that issue before. And it works fine on the desktop. But I swear,
no matter what I do with this laptop, it hates me. I don't know. I mean, I know it's kind of the
new thing to say of it hates me, but I've had this laptop for four years. You know, I know it
pretty much inside now. And I'm pretty sure it's demon possessed.
But, you know what? It's just something without that. I've had this problem before.
Yeah. Perfect. What are you recording now, CD, uh, quality?
As you remember, you're recording as an author. Yeah, which,
Oh, yeah. Actually, I'm working more on the Aug feed.
There you go. Yeah. I'm going to have both.
Let me figure something out. Two, three, two, so soon. No, I have three. There's one over here.
And Dan, yes, of course, make a phone because I'm blind as hell.
We gave you a shirt today. That's true. That's true.
Because I'm retarded. And when I was packing to actually come to OLF,
I took the shirts out of the bag to put the laptop in and forgot to put the shirts back.
Yeah. So now I was listening to the last thing I was doing. We went on a tirade over Google Chrome.
Yeah. Okay. The Chromian browser. We don't like the open source version.
You don't like it because you think it's too easy to get homes? Yes.
Yes. Do you surf through tour? No, actually, I don't.
The United Zeno is just through 30. No, there's a difference between anal and insane.
What is the word? His theory, it goes like this.
He has nothing to hide, but he'll be damned if anyone finds that out.
Oh, so much for 330. How about Rustborn, man? How about that guy?
He actually gave me a sticker. He's a nice guy. Yeah. Yeah, he is.
Yeah, that is dad, isn't he? He's like, at this time, my house dad, you know, overguided.
He's seen him coming in. That's true. Those are the big guys.
Yeah. They wouldn't want to be either of them. They've got to hand some crusher on us.
Yeah. That's why I actually love coming to places like Ohio Linux Fest and Southeast Linux Fest,
because I get to meet people that, you know, I either talk to you on IRC or a podcast with like you.
And I've said it before, but for everyone that doesn't know, the first thing Dan ever said to me was,
I'm going to fuck you in the mouth, which that's how I knew it was Dan and it's a great thing to hear
as soon as you walk into a restaurant. That doesn't everybody want to hear that?
And this year he said he was going to turn my mouth into a vagina, give me some lemons so it puckers
up nice and tight and put a little tune in there to get that smell. Yeah, this is good deer, everybody.
Did she sport in the neck here? Yeah.
It's like the omelette. It's going to be the new style.
Does it get itchy? It's like pubic hair on your neck.
Actually, don't really get itchy at all. I mean, it looks like it would, I know.
No, this your dad had the same thing like he just gets itchy.
He actually, he actually grows less facial hair than I do.
Yeah. Does he look like he's 13, too? No.
Now, you get originally from Indiana? Yeah.
We born and raised grew up in Indiana and we get out when they take you 130 takes you so far.
Pretty much. How did you be 330? Community college.
Is that, is he going to community college now? Yeah.
See to my community college. I want you to be essay.
No, we actually had a Linux class together about four or five years ago.
Actually, yes, about four years ago. Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute.
I only went for like a year. I couldn't really afford to go back.
I'm working on that. So, and so this year was his first year back and about roughly the same time.
How does that work out? Neither do you have a job.
You put in a afford to go to school last year.
Yeah. Is that because you missed it in long deadlines and stuff?
Yeah.
Well, you know, if they kept my schedule, I'd be happier.
Now, wait, you, you're not in class this semester.
No, because you must do them.
And 330 think class is in mathematics. Yeah.
So you two, you didn't mean at the LGBS, I mean, no, because you attended a lot of them, right?
I want to say I attended one.
One had one inch of a batter. It's not your kind of people.
No. We like to be like people, like, just do it yourself.
Yeah. You stand up. You know what LGBS means?
Let's be in general alliance. I hate you.
I'm like, okay, it's an acronym. Starts with an L. I'm going to assume Linux. I'm going to go with it.
Thank you, Dan, for turning me into a dick.
You know what it is, lumpy ass head.
Yeah, what do you do?
What you tell everyone what's about?
The Linux boot process is just a dense version of the heck or public radio episode as I did.
This is re-proporting now, Dan. I'm taking that to the, I'm writing that way as far as I can.
I've done this talk for work. I've done this talk in the heck or public radio.
The thing is, this tough about it is I have 55 minutes and the one I did for work ended up going
over two hours. Yeah, and the heck or public radio is machines going, which one was like 30 plus
minutes. I had to make sure I don't wait. It was fun. I like sending it up because it was a virtual
machine. So I made it a show. Four different distributions, the Bonsi, which is on the main
workstation. So where do you call it? Fedora 11 Slackware 13. So you get to contrast what I've had,
Debian and Slackware. You just have to have the process using started scripts. And also I have
a Debian version machine which I can go in and I put great points in the boot process. So when
it blows like the NRD, it breaks right at that point so you can stop it and look around like
the NRD image and check out busy box and then we'll start it back up again and it continues up
until it hits in it and then it stops. It's taught about that issue where it's at at that point.
So people can see it at different stages. Exactly as you would, it kind of looks like
when you hit it or when you hit it, when you hit the processing of one of these scripts.
Cool. Well don't spoil it too much because I'm actually going to be there so.
Sit up really close so you can see. This is a lot. I'd be like, I'd say that to any of you that was
really bad said is that I'm like self, they're not recording video tape in the sessions. Yeah,
you're just recording. Now last year's OLF, you showed your ass.
Where does your ass fit into the Linux boot process?
Well, you'll have to stay at the end of the presentation to see where it asks if it's in the Linux
version. But I will say that there is a surprise at the end. Oh god.
And usually when you say there's a surprise, it usually ends up with something like an Alabama hot
pocket. No, it's not that bad.
This is something I always end my presentations at work with. I'm going to end it in the next one here.
I just love it. This is the greatest thing. Kids love it. So if my kids love it, you know,
it's not that bad. Yeah. See, I keep forgetting actually that you reproduced and I got to say,
that scares the but Jesus out of me. You don't want to be my kids in a dark house.
Are they like the little kids from hostile?
No, they're gentle beasts and I think that's how it is. But they are. My wife and I was a tall person.
She comes from the tall family. And my kids are like, it's amazing. I'm going to school that my
youngest daughter looks like she's in sixth grade because she's so tall. And all the other kids
in high school, it's weird to look at her so much smaller than her. She could like pick them up
and break them in hand. The oldest one when she was in like third grade was beating up sixth grade.
When she wrestled with six great boys outside and she beat up. She's there. They were also in
martial arts for a while, too. They're all big and they're all strong. We teach them how to kill.
Well, Dan, it's actually getting close to the time for your talk.
You won't see a conference, but I'll see you in there so it was a good talk to you.
Thanks for the interview, man. No problem. I'll be on your show one of these days. You just wait.
Nice shirt. Thank you. You gave it to me.
Thank you for listening to HACRA Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net. So head on over to C-A-R-O dot-A-T for all of her team.
