Episode: 851
Title: HPR0851: HPR Community News for Oct 2011
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0851/hpr0851.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 03:31:36

---

Though my name is Ken Fallon and you are listening to Hacker Public Radio Community News for October 2011.
Hey, how's it going everybody? My name is Ken Fallon. I just want to give you a quick review of what happened over the last month here on Hacker Public Radio.
First of all, I'd like to welcome his single new host, CT. Thank you very much for contributing your show. Better late than never.
And you join HPR Community as the 100 and 90 second contributor to HPR. So thank you very much for joining.
If you again are considering being a host here in HPR, had it in the back of your mind, I'm sure that this show will be of interest to you.
So please stay on until the end and I'll give you some more information.
As we always do here, I'd like to do a quick review of the shows for the last month.
Episode 827 was one of the shows from the HPR booth where Klaatu talks about how to establish a HPR booth.
And this is a very interesting one. If you are considering going to show or you have an upcoming show, HPR will be there with you all the way.
What we tend to do is we can do some promotion prior to the show, get some background on the show, stir up some image, stir up some interest in us here on Hacker Public Radio.
You can get on and have a quick interview. One of us about your upcoming show will get that scheduled.
Naturally, we'll have their banners and buttons on our website. And then if we could have a booth at your show to help us spread the word at your show.
And then we can schedule some behind the scene its interviews recorded at that booth for play out a week or two after the fact.
So if you have a show, please be seriously consider having HPR a part of that insofar as you can use our resources to spread the word.
Episode 828 was Mr Gadgets with A plus G equals minus B. How he talks about the demise of the physical retail stores and wonders what the effect will be, especially giving the amount of tablets coming on.
Then episode 829 was a syndicated Thursday show and I'd like to thank people for submitting shows to HPR.
It was basically about the story of the person who found quasars massively interesting and it was like a hood on a soap opera from my listening to it.
Then we had little marcoes with Peter Hutton interview at the Xorg who is a work set on input systems for the Xorg project as red hat.
We had Chris from sourceforge.net who was an interview that plateaued it another one that they hold the Hyolinics Fest.
And the following day we had a roundup of Alcampa 11 where we had an interview with Les Porter and Stuart Lownwage from Logradio Robin Gettling from HPR and the full circle podcast Laura and Alan.
So unfortunately I didn't interview with Laura and the interview unfortunately I hadn't recorded it here on my HZone or H2 actually.
And my backup recorder from the Sands at Leip was completely unlistenable so unfortunately that's gone and lost forever.
The audio is still on the website if you want to listen to it.
Then we had Dan Lynch's elephant in the room which I added to the show and then we went on talking to Les again about the how the event was organized.
The following day we had marcoes with a series from then interview from Ian Romanovich at Xorg 11 and he works at Intel on the messa.
Then we had the night cast our good friend and podcaster night wise sent us in the best of night wise live which he had on back on the 9th of October.
And when I first saw this coming in oh my god it's a very very long but it was three fantastic interviews back to back.
Larry Bushy from the going in Xpod project.
Katie Murray talking about windows and Bart B that I talking about, talking about OSX.
Three very very interesting perspectives from people with non biased attitudes on their favorite operations system.
Well worth a listen if you haven't listened to it already.
Then episode 835 Mr Gadgets formed in a continuation of his tablet series from earlier in the in the month.
Amazon sets the world on fire with a discussion on the Amazon fire tablet.
Then we had Latu with an interview from all of again with Jeff from the no machine project where he explains.
No machine corporation I guess where he explains how and what no machine is.
Then episode 837 was an interview that I did with a Jürgen from the oboe wireless network in.
Dent Ford, depth Ford in just outside Greenwich outside of London about a community project where they set up a optimized link stage routing protocol on the hacked.
Kind of links the SWRT 54G's to have an open wireless network so that you would carry on your signal for your network onto a daisy chain back to provide wireless networks for people who couldn't afford it or who are waiting for their network to switch.
Mark calls with and came the following day with an interview with Martin Pierce on the new project in the Xorg while a lot of these were a little bit over my head.
It wasn't so far over my head that I couldn't grasp it.
So thanks very much for to Mark calls for grabbing all those interviews for us and I hope he continues to do that and send in shows.
839 was the full circle podcast, the Ubuntu team, Robin Gattling again giving us some fantastic shows.
The best of his show there on the full circle magazine podcast which you're not listening to you should really should.
And the following day we had Android shopping by Corba to very good show on what to do basically comes down to when you're buying an Android device you need to do your homework.
You need to make sure that you know what you want from it and that's what you're shopping for will support what you want on it.
And a device I could have done with after a part before purchasing a podcast or before purchasing an Android tablet myself.
Episode 841 was again an interview that tattoo did with this time with Jonathan accessibility Nidu at the OLF.
Again, Jonathan talks about his work at the Free Sock for a project and where he interned and accessibility in general and what he what he would like to see.
And indeed what we all would like to see because if we can make Linux or the open GNU desktops or the floss desktops having accessibility built in by default.
It will force other operation system vendors to do that as well.
And we saw that with when 3D acceleration came on with companies then that was a required factor in the other two operation systems.
So let's put in accessibility and force it in other desktops.
So that's enough about that I guess.
842 was another interview this time with the DJ from H-Online.com which is an open source security and news site.
Good interview. I actually loved his t-shirt. I completely missed it at the interview only afterwards when we had when we were going back to the hotel to get something to eat.
And I saw his t-shirt. I see dead pixels quite funny.
And following day Mr. Gadgets formed in what holiday tech item you are your cherished or are planning on buying or whatever that will be an ideal show to do five minutes.
If you're thinking to yourself that you'd like to record a podcast well why don't you do that.
Just tell us a little bit about what holiday tech item you'd buy or what holiday tech item you would like to buy if you didn't have any constraints on money for instance.
Episode 844 was the flying handbags indicated Thursday show on HPR rounding off our coverage of barcamp blackpool which consisted of again an interview earlier on and some promotional events and some podcasts.
And this was done by Les Pounder, Peter Cannon, Dan Wesley, Tony Hughes, Heed and Dan Lynch and recorded outside a toilet or inside a toilet as the barcamp blackpool not 100% sure if that was outside or inside but we may never know.
A con decay sent us in an existential and open source radio software detailing stuff like ice cast broadcast using this tool IDJC, airtime liquid soap, Riverdale, Rabra Buntu and so forth.
Everything that you would need in order to put up a streaming radio station, even looking at the comments there even plateau was amazed to find all this information some he hadn't even heard about so very impressed there are very good show.
Then we had a tattoo interviewing Jared Smith from Fedora who is the project lead for the Fedora team insights on what's going on and everything around the Fedora community.
Then we had our latest host CT with a episode it for seven which was Foscon's me go and the story of tinzine.
He had promised to submit some shows to HPR had forgotten and then finally lived up to his promise all that everybody would do that yes folks better late than ever is absolutely fine here and high public radio.
Interesting what can happen in here between these interviews how Nokia is completely dropped and me go for Microsoft operating systems.
And then the following day we had episode eight for eight continuing our coverage from I'll camp 11 Alan Cox on the info point project not to be mistaken with Alan Cox of the kernel developer.
It was an interview I got talking about a project actually started by john abaykin from the radio canonical and shot of jack.
And given us an overview on what you can do to help out the community in some small way and you know don't think that this necessarily has to be as a computer fair it's just what he's talking about there is having an audience participation at local events in physically putting.
Floss community in front of your community out in the wild be it a beer festival or anywhere a B festival or anywhere at all that might have people who are open to.
And the last ideas and following day we had syndicated Thursday the Sunday morning Linux review and this is sent in by Matt and Tony who who are at smlr.us and they release a show every Monday or I guess every Sunday but it's Monday by the time I get it recently started and they were interested in syndicating the show here on her public radio.
I asked them whether they wanted if they wanted to do that I would need to communicate that with the community because that would be one less slot week so what they've decided to do is send us in a show once a month so hopefully they'll have a they will continue to do that really appreciate it.
Then we had as the last show on Friday was another tech joint passes the household tech in the pre micro year show of remembrance by Mr Gadgets where he talks about the contributions of people like Edgar Wilker and Henry Klaus in the in their work with a acoustic research on.
Home high five audio systems so if you're if there's anybody out there either living or who has passed who you want to pay homage to feel free to do that that's an ideal place and and Wikipedia of course is a great place to get some facts and information about about those people so that you can do your show here in Hacker Public Radio.
Now I'd like to thank to Stitcher for some feedback on the intro and as ever if you want to we're not tied down to anything here if you're the contribution anyway and if you think the intro needs to be modified please feel free to organize that or discuss it on the mailing list Hacker Public Radio for slash mail list.
And again apologies to city for mixing up the scheduling of show was quite 100% sure about what we wanted to do there and tune in during the week for another upcoming show his live show that he's doing which will be should cars get smarter schedule for syndicated Thursday this syndicated Thursday.
Now I wanted to take a little bit of time here to talk to you about Hacker Public Radio and getting shows in.
If you go to Hacker Public Radio dot org for slash contribute or click on the contribute button there in Hacker Public Radio have updated that page with a little bit of information how you can record a show.
I know a lot of people have promised shows over the last year and quite a good few of you have contributed shows but we are still short of new contributors and we're still short of shows.
This seems to be a continual pain that we have here in HPR and I spend most of my time and indeed sort of poking into to trying to track down shows so that we can keep we can keep going.
So if you have a show in your head you'd like to record and you're thinking well I'd love to record a show but I don't know what to talk about then Mr Gadgets is your man he has several lists there are several suggestions holiday tech gadgets but we're also interested in how you got into podcasting what's in your daily carry what's got you into Linux what your favorite applications are and so forth.
So even if you don't have a topic that you want to discuss then email the mail list and send an email to admin at Hacker Public Radio dot org and we'll find something that you can talk to us about don't you worry.
If on the other hand you have an idea for the show and you really want to send it into Hacker Public Radio but you're busy gathering information about it and you don't feel like you're an expert or whatever.
Well please record something better to record something and send it in now then you know procrastinate to death and then look back in six months time ago.
Oh I wanted to do a review of that distro and now they've got another release out so I'll do a review of that just basically sit down and don't worry about the technology involved in recording a show just pick up the phone and dial if you're in the States 206 312574
9 and don't get to press the hash sign at the end if you're in the UK and dialed 203 432 5879 and if you go to Hacker Public Radio dot org port such contribute or any of the pages has those two numbers listed.
And don't forget to press the pound sign and please include your name and email address so that we can give you credits.
If you don't want to pay for the shows or you do have something in your head and you don't want to pay phone calls then simply pick up your MP3 player your Sansa clip your Android phone your iPhone iPod phone and record something and send it to admin at Hacker Public Radio dot org and then we'll get it to you.
You can use if you want to interview somebody you can go and use Skype Skype call recorder if you want to have multiple people doing a round table then there's details of how you can get to the mobile server.
Basically if you're just interested at all in doing anything for Hacker Public Radio just send an email to admin at Hacker Public Radio dot org and we'll get you sorted.
I can't stress enough that we need shows and if you have an idea for a series or whatever start small take down a chunk right down on a piece of paper five points press record on your recording device speak about the five points press stop on the recording device.
Attach that to an email and send it to admin at Hacker Public Radio dot org that's your first show out of the way yeah and then you can do the next five points record that send it in next five points record that send it in that is absolutely the best way to get started in podcasting is to record a show it will probably be crap your first show don't worry about that.
We're all about content here and if those five points are interesting enough we'll put it out on the air while we're going to put it out in the air anyway.
So that's it folks thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio remember it is a community podcast network and that means there's more to life than us guys we need to have community contributions.
You're the community you're the person behind behind the mic and you're the person in front of the mic so please send us in some shows with that I'll wrap this up and I'll talk to you later have a nice day.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on day through Friday today show like all our shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself if you ever consider recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dark pound and the economical and computer cloud HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com all binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds go to lunar pages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis today's show is released under a creative comments attribution share a line read our license.
