Episode: 631
Title: HPR0631: HPR Community News 0x02
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0631/hpr0631.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 00:10:59

---

Hello, this is HBR Community News for January 2011.
Hello everybody, my name is Tim Phanam, and I'd like to start off this community news
show by welcoming guitar man, Afafab, Rugy and brother mouse as new holes on the HBR
network, looking forward to more contributions from them in the future.
First of all, let's go through the shows. We had a wide selection of shows this month,
starting off with guitar man, giving us a rundown of urban cycling, how to cycle tips and
tricks and how to cycle into work. It also helps if you live in a country that's very flat
like the Netherlands. The following day we had JWP with some excellent advice on how to use
all the turns of investing and micro payments and different thinking outside of the box as far as
making your money work for you, but also making your money work in a good way. Then we had
pipe man music with an intro to audio, broadcasting and podcasting, and this is a series that we're
going to be promoting on HBR so that we can get people as comfortable as possible with podcasting
and audio and how it works. So just one tip if you are using the spaghetti, trick, make sure and
cook it before you start trying to chop it. The following day we had Tlatou's Urban Camping
series and in this episode he was trying to provide shelter. This series is strangely disturbing
but very very intriguing. The following day we had Dave Yates with tip on surf raw, which is a
to provide a fast Unix command line interface to various popular WWW web search engines and I found
myself using that quite a bit. Very interesting. Dave does come out with a lot of these interesting
topics and I'd like to welcome Dave back to the HBR network and hope that he will continue to send
in shows if not every month as frequently as he can. Then we had Thistleweb with so you want to
start your own band and this was a look at how the restrictions and copyright affects people
who want to start a band and how you need to buy sheep music and CDs and all the rest of that stuff
and it was very interesting and spoke and prompted some debate among my colleagues and work.
The following day we had a new host, our fab, with tips on how to install Windows XP in virtual
box. This is a very very good instructional HBR episode of which we could do with more of.
So please keep them coming. The following day we had K5 with a QSK podcast, you're driving me crazy.
This was a filler episode but it was glad to play it because this was one of my favorites and QSK
podcasts. Then again the next day 620 was tattoo, holding an interview with KTEC systems who are
involved in hiring of skilled IT professionals. 621 was Dan and Kaffir Ninja doing a book review
of Anne Rand's Atlas which was quite top provoking and stirred quite a lot of comments on the website
as well. The 622 was a show that I had bumped up and it was by a return host, Jane Duck, with her
topic on influenza and it was an eye opener for myself and actually changed my opinion on
flu shots and influenza shots. Then we had JWP with his second episode of the month,
history and a background of the nano editor and this was a strangely intriguing show. I really
liked the history, the background of a program that you use occasionally and it really gave me a
feeling that there was a community behind it and those are reason and a passion behind this
application. I really hope JWP continues to do shows and continues to do shows like this.
Very very good. The following day we had the King of the Hobos tattoo again with urban camping
number three and in this one he was, let me see here, how to organize your gear which actually
was of interest to a lot of people even though you don't have, you're not that interested in
urban camping per se, how to organize your gear is also always a useful thing to be able to do
especially if you're a tech. Then we had Rugee with her journey from OSX to Linux and this series
of how I got into Linux and such has been one of the most interesting that I've come across.
One always assumes that the journey to Linux is the same for everybody but as we see here it
wasn't and this was an intriguing way to come into Linux and it opened my eyes to a lot of
different applications that I wouldn't have otherwise been aware of. In 628 was an excellently
edited show by BrotherMouse and titled Tasker which is an automation application for Android
although it's a purchase app it is right up the street of people and I think it actually is
more useful than the Google supplied application builder for putting together tasks so you should
check out Episode 628 if you've got a Android phone. 629 in an example of how not to edit a podcast
was one that I did on RSS 2.0 specification with iTunes namespace here I geek out on XML of all
things whatever turns you on with the specific game of testing out new feeds for the HPR network
and links for those feeds will be in the show notes more about that and on. And then the final
show of the month was Pokeys going to have a table at HPR North East Linux GNU Linux Fest.
And more about that later on as well. So in other news the comment system is as you know I now
approve all comments so one of the comments that were people put in was that the captures were
difficult to fill in so what I did was I turned it off so we don't have captures anymore but
comments still need to be approved. It's increased the amount of spam that we've had but not
markably not that much seeing as the capture system wasn't working anyway there wasn't much
of a barrier there. One of the things after the automation which I'll be getting into in a moment
that I'm going to be tackling is the rewrite of the comment system so that people can subscribe to
comments on their own shows or particular shows or that sort of thing. If you want to subscribe
there is a comment feed hidden away in the p the red letter p of hpr each of those letters
brings you to a different location and the p brings you to the comment feed so you can subscribe to
all the comments that are met on hpr I do vet them all so there's very little chance of stuff
getting through. We are on the search for a web version web wav version of the intro and outro music
so that people can have higher quality and better in coding and the guys are trying to track
that down for us but if you have it can you please send it on. I was the privilege of being on the
nightwise kwtv live 2010 day one hour four actually I think was hour three show where I was talking
tonight wise took a few hours off work and we were discussing what hpr is, the hacker mentality
and promoting hpr and trying to get some of his community over here recording shows for us
on hacker public radio. Now before I get on to mailing list news I'd like to bring you up to date
that and I want to give a special thanks to Maya who has endured an immense
an immense amount of pain putting up shows on to archive.org all 620 of the shows I mean we're
up to 630 now but 620 of the shows from 0 1 to 620 have been uploaded in batches of 10
and this has been a fabulous achievement mind-nomingly boring I imagine so much so that this morning
I was able to fire off an email to archive.org and they replied back and we now have a collection
under the title of hacker public radio and the link will be in the show notes to that collection.
Very very well done thank you very much Maya I do appreciate it. From the mailing list
we had this is actually from last month but I thought I'd mentioned it here. Siegflup
put out the call that she would configure a nice cast server to do 24-7 streaming of hprs
and deviates and the call saying that he has a server available which I suspect is the one
that's standing right across from me as I'm sitting here in my basement recording this show.
There has been more talk about the rss feed me mostly from myself looking for feedback on the test
feed which is at hackerpublicradio.org forward slash test.xml if you could put that into your podcast
reader or your rss reader or whatever however you get your shows so that we can have a
confirmation that it works before us which over the main feed to to use this. As we said before
an episode 630 pokey has ordered a booth for the northeast linux fest and he's also ordered some
hpr stickers and is looking for help with that so people to come along and help out at the booth
or people who want to throw a few quid the way that way so that we can give some more stickers
for people and promotional material. I will probably be attending FOSTEM as well and I will also
probably be attending org camp if I if they put it on this year so I will try and have some stuff
there and at least catch some interviews if I can from those locations. So listen to episode 630
for more information on that there was quite a large discussion about hpr tv so droops wants to do
audio visual stuff on hpr it could there were discussions about what it would be whether a
range from something like just in tv or would be screencast or would be just a straight off video
you know headshots and just stream that out live and then set up the recording on hpr the following
morning. I'm very interested to see how it goes I think it's a really good idea. Probably one
thing that Dave mentioned that I would agree with him is that we want to keep some of the feed
separate but that's something that I plan to do anyway we'll have a speaks feed an org feed
an MP3 feed and then possibly a multimedia feed for people who have the bandwidth for that sort of
thing and then there'll be two versions of each of those again you know last 10 days last 10 episodes
and the last and then the entire archive the only thing that probably want to consider when we're
doing television is that we need to keep in mind that there's audio only audience behind that but
please join the mailing list go to hpr.org for such mail list join the mailing list and join
in the discussion about that if you have anything to say and join the course of that we mentioned
that we'd never enough space to host the org files or the speaks files and Jason Scott of textfiles.com
a famed personal hero of mine has offered us space tumor hpr which I think is very very very very
cool so look forward to the entire org and speaks feeds been available very very shortly and if you
want to speed that up then you can do by verifying that the test feed works and submitting some feedback
yes or no that would be very much appreciated now as promised i want to do a year review
we had a possible 261 shows last year and unfortunately we were only able to make
131 of those slots which is a little tiny little bit over 50% of our target of
hitting one show a day this year the good news is instead of 261 shows we only need to do 260 shows
and so far we have 17 so we're well on the way to reaching that target
so long as people continue to send in shows we'll be fine so we do go through a lot of shows here
and hpr and i wanted at this point to give you some statistics on the amount of bandwidth that we
have on the amount of people who subscribe but that sort of information unfortunately i'm getting
from three or four different places and it doesn't seem to be correlating very well so hopefully
later on we'll be able to get some more of that information out here droops is offered to go and
improve the site do some search engine optimization and that sort of thing but since we've disabled
the captures we've reduced our bandwidth by 50% so that is that is interesting sorry since we
started approving the the comments the spammers have gone away basically so we have had
this year so far 37 hosts 37 different hosts and i'm going to turn you over now to
Danny speak who will give you a breakdown of who has contributed the most this year to hpr
carbon 5150 carbon two half-abb brother mouse tank log flavinuseyheian
guitarman and and contributing to shows pipe man music with mojaret maze and urban toys
titan contributing free shows jwp sp zero ruse deep peak contributing for shows lost in Bronx
monster and bokeh contributing five shows zogue contributing seven shows syge fell up and k five
tux contributing eight shows ray can you miss contributing ten shows can fall on
contributing eleven shows michael ford contributing 13 shows fihux
contributing 20 shows clatu thank you very much Danny speak thank you very much not only to tattoo
phoenix rubber on everybody else i would like to thank everybody who has who is involved with hpr this
this community all the people behind it all the people paying for the hosting all the people the
guys from bin rev all agnima clatu for hosting the shows everybody else behind the scenes who's
giving me help and advice all the guys on the irc all the people on the mailing list all you guys
for listening basically everybody in the hpr community thank you very much for all the support
over the last year and i look forward to hearing from everybody in the coming year my new year's
resolution is to get more hosts on the hpr network my ideal goal is that everybody who listens to
hpr will have contributed at least one show it's very very easy to do just pick up a mic send us
in a show it would make an ideal new year's resolution forget about lose and wait you have already
given up smoking because i've already done a hpr so i don't know how to do that so this year your
new year's resolution it's a really easy one to do pick up a microphone recorder show and send
it in here to hacker public radio and with that i'll finish off with a few poignant words
from our spammers the musicman says each and every should me implement for the key pass it will
definitely giving good security for all sides touching touching touching a spammer writes ah
exclamation mark i have loved these words out and want you to get my acquaintance please email me
and we can move to your countries ps my daddy is rich he pays for the aeroplane
numerology writes a very nice blog i really like to meet you the caption is really very nice
mic tick i really like it
i'm very much pleased with the contents you have mentioned i wanted to thank you for this great
article i will be original for you thank you for listening to hacker public radio hpr sponsored by
karo dot net so head on over to c a r o dot anything
the
the
and
You
