Episode: 580
Title: HPR0580: Hacker Public Radio Panel at Ohio Linux Fest 2010
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0580/hpr0580.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 23:31:27

---

music
I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't know what I'm going to do, I don't
know what I'm doing,
I don't know what I'm doing, I don't know what I'm doing, I don't know what I'm doing, I don't know
And in this episode, you're going to be listening about Hacker Public Radio.
This is a recording from a panel held at the Ohio Linux Fest in Ohio, Columbus, Ohio, 2010.
With us, we have Clot 2, Davey 8, Stan, and Lorde, all of whom will be introduced again by Clot 2.
The recording has become from my personal recorder, so you'll get a little bit of flavor
before the panel started, and then it's going to go into the house recording.
So sit back, relax, get ready for your commute, get ready for a long boring hour of work or something, and enjoy.
That's the right, like Clot 2 mentioned that you did the boot progression series.
That just died.
And while I was made, I made a note of it, but I didn't have to.
That's all right. I didn't finish it yet.
Really?
It's just going on.
Hey, that's HPR, right?
That's it.
The licensing series, remember I started doing the licensing series?
The first one was in GPL, and I was supposed to do AGPL.
Yeah, that would have been excellent.
And you know what, I will.
I'm a kid, man.
Kids in a family take all the time.
I haven't actually listened to HPR in a year, and I thought it was dead.
No, this is actually me recording for an HPR officer.
I don't know because I forgot my little report.
So, I mean, not.
It's no amplification.
Okay.
You guys should be here.
Yeah, come on.
Yeah.
You're going to talk.
What are you talking about?
Maybe you can...
Oh, that would actually be kind of fun.
Yeah.
I don't think I'd want to do that either.
Hi, everyone.
Are you rolling?
Are you rolling?
I'm rolling.
I don't know if you had staff guys rolling.
Are you rolling?
I'm working.
Hi.
Hi, everyone.
My name is Klatzu, and we're doing a hacker-public radio panel,
which is going to be recursively about hacker-public radio,
recording hacker-public radio.
And we're recording this session.
So, it's just everything about hacker-public radio.
And a fun activity for everyone would be,
since we don't really have enough mics,
to be everyone to move up three rows
from where they currently are sitting.
So, everyone stand up.
Take care.
Make sure you have all your personal possessions
and belongings with you.
Can't stand up.
Or can't make two rows.
Sorry.
Two rows for you.
Oh, I lost my chance.
All right.
I didn't forget.
I just haven't seen that I can stand to do
in order to be there after I know.
So, I've got to do this lack-wear hack.
Ted here.
So, I'm sort of.
So, today we've got a couple of panelists, myself included, we got, oh we're getting more microphones.
Yeah, probably.
Oh, we're back, right?
Yeah, what's that?
You can move back or they'll have microphones.
No.
I don't know.
Oh, we got Dave Yates, who did the famous Halloween episode, and others.
I'm sharing with you.
We have Sieg Fluff, who did some DJ stuff that I don't really understand.
How many people here actually, how many people here have listened to any HPR episode?
What's the question?
Sweet.
Okay, cool.
All right, cool.
Oh no, this is going to be recording.
Oh, that's a prop.
Yeah.
Oh, it's a fake.
I don't know if it'll just make sound.
What are you going to do an episode?
I've done more, I've done probably about half a dozen episodes of HPR.
Lordy claims to have done some episodes.
I've also done episodes of the precursor of HPR.
Well, you'll have to tell us about that in a moment.
Which you do want to hear about.
And then Dan, who did the boom motor series, which was really cool.
I did more than that.
He did the boom motor series, which was really cool.
I did more than I am.
All right, so let's, you know, because I'm a multinational geek,
I kind of, first and foremost, curious about people's production methodology and workflow.
So I'm going to ask the panelists to tell us a little bit about what it looks like
when they're recording their HPR episode.
Like, bathroom, closet, bedroom, big studio.
I have a partner in the bathroom as a recording studio.
I have a partner in a couple of minutes.
Yeah.
Actually, one of the PRs I've done, I, me and Dave,
we've talked about this.
And me and him were actually in competition for the first one to break 70 miles an hour on a podcast.
I think we called it a tie at the time.
All right, let's hear about, I'm going to start on the left, Dan.
How do you record your podcasts?
Well, mine sound really crappy to use this a lot of the times.
But I have a, most of the time I do it in my house, wherever I can, which tends to be noisy,
anywhere I'm at, because of the kids.
But I've pretty much used to use a separate microphone connected through a mixer,
kind of way we had it set up for some Linux like tech show, and just did the same thing to record his solo.
But since then, I switched to using a headset and just recording straight throughout the asking.
So I don't do anything special.
What I have noticed is, depending on the machine, I'm actually recording from.
I get a lot of feedback from the power in my house, and especially on the laptops.
So I have a clean power for a UPS to, what's that called?
What's it called?
My feed that they do a lot.
Conditioning.
Yeah, power-conditioning on UPS does help.
But yeah, I don't do anything special.
I think it was a first-started idea, wasn't it?
Today with the tech, what?
Actually, I can talk about the history of ADPR, and where it really began.
And the idea was not so much, you know, you just get people to do it.
I've done it on a cell phone too, recorded straight to a cell phone,
but I don't want to have an idea on a way into work.
So it's a lot of fun.
We also used to have it set up, you can call it in my Asterisks box,
and we'll record a audio session for you,
and then make it available through the website.
But I don't think too many people are aware of that really used it.
And it's not set up in it.
Anyway.
All right.
Well, the first episode I did for, talk with the techie,
I actually did about how to record audio using a third-generation iPod with iPod Linux on it,
done in my truck that I had at the time at 70 miles an hour.
Now, after the fact, talking with Dave's exegates here,
discovered that we both recorded probably within a week of each other,
and we're not sure who recorded first.
And so we both were neck and neck for 70 miles an hour of podcasting.
I've also done it using a cell phone, a dedicated digital recorder,
but the more interesting thing that I use for my personal podcast,
and I haven't had a chance to use it for HPR yet,
is using jacosher and multiple USB audio inputs.
And it allows me to record as many inputs as I've got USB inputs,
and that's kind of my recording methodology right now.
Cool.
And you want me to talk about the history of HPR?
Let's stay on top of that.
All right.
I've recorded everything in my car using an LSTM,
which is a handheld device, and I'll appeal my foot for a baseball camp.
And I do that because I have a long commute,
and that's all I have to do with anything like this.
I take it off the recorder and use all that stuff.
I usually don't add it, I just put it out here.
That's what I use.
Cool.
The V12 cap, I think, is pretty clean.
Let's see here.
Well, okay, so I'll start with the latest.
This is really nice.
This is a little recorder, and it's recording now.
And it got this from Command Line.
It's a very nice stereo condenser mic,
so it picks up really anything.
I've been using that recently,
but before that, just, I don't know,
this microphone here is a tiny wee tiny condenser mic microphone
that you buy for $0.50.
I have 300 of those, so I take them up to telephones
for hello and interviews, and all sorts of things.
I probably should have a coil with a 330 old tap
or something for the telephones to take it away,
but didn't really research that.
And as far as ethnic methodology,
I try and edit it as least as I can
because editing really sucks.
No, it doesn't.
Yeah, it does.
I could back to your sarcasm with a little bit more sarcasm.
That makes sense.
So, I don't know how many BSC people we have,
but there's a program.
Yeah, there's a program called the AUCAT.
It's just an audio multiplexer,
but it's real simple, and you can hack it out,
so it just dumps the input and out of the ways.
And so I did a couple of episodes
where you just, whatever I was talking,
and whatever was on, I played like M-player
and would record that sort of.
And so it was real nice,
but that only lasted like a couple of episodes for whatever reason.
And let's see here.
Recording a lot of places.
I'll get into that later in a bit.
So, you're going to talk about history, right?
Thank you.
That is what I want.
All right.
Now to talk about the history of Hacker Public Radio,
as it is, you actually have to go back to a show called RFA,
called Radio Freak America,
with the most, exactly.
If you haven't heard of it,
it's 99 episodes of Pure Awesome.
And you know what?
I've re-listened to it about once a year,
and so much of that content is still relevant.
Now, Duke parallel came up with the idea,
as well as racks towards the end,
that when they were ending RFA,
that they would start Hacker Public Radio.
Unfortunately, it was a project that never took off.
Then comes groups who start talk with the tech,
with one of the most unfortunate acronyms,
as far as trying to get some very awesome female hopes on there.
I'm not sure who I can be talking about down here,
but she does some awesome stuff, folks,
if you haven't heard it, listen.
See, thanks.
So, after 300 episodes of Talk with the Techie,
they shut TWA tech down,
and with the permission of Dool,
they turned it into Hacker Public Radio.
Pretty much the exact same format,
but a much better name.
And I...
Much of HDR.
There's not an HDR hack,
HDR check.
There's nothing.
Yeah, and you know,
because of the change of the name,
I seriously think we've gotten, you know,
some more people contributing to the project
who never would have contributed before.
And I think that pretty much wraps up
unless someone else has something to add.
Do you know why they finished off TWA tech,
and was it because of the name?
They literally were being told that there were some people
who were refusing to contribute,
because TWA tech is talk tech.
You know, so unfortunately,
some females did not want to become involved with the project.
I want to focus on males,
didn't want to become associated with that.
Okay, cool.
And well, the fact that a lot of people
would make jokes about the status,
just because of the name of the project,
probably didn't help some people either.
Yeah.
Okay, cool.
Okay, well, let's hear...
Do you have any production or stories
you might be able to share with us anybody?
Dan?
First, I guess, since you're on the left.
Start on the right?
Sick club? Since you're on the right?
Great.
More stories, huh?
Well, I don't have any more stories.
I have some advice though.
Make sure you're a private spot when you record,
because people will try to truck to you.
All the time, I don't know if any of you guys have experienced this.
I got it.
I find if you look really like mean or creepy,
they don't talk to you anyone,
or if you can hide behind a burrowing.
Oh, I don't know.
You can hide behind a burrowing?
I don't get that.
I don't get that.
I think he's making a joke about my stature.
Oh.
So, yeah, like when I said,
for Denver Buzz, I was talking to Jason Scott,
like my sister.
I was like, how you doing?
I haven't seen him forever.
Get away from me.
I kept on trying to batter away,
and that just made it more curious.
And so, yeah, the whole part was edited out.
Did we, uh, war started?
I don't know.
I decided from a crashing car.
I did scare some people with that episode.
I record from my car.
Did people hear Dave Yates's Halloween episode?
Or did some people hear it?
Describe it for us.
I heard a couple of April Fools Day episodes
and, uh, you know,
playing, if the reversed audience
here, what was being said,
and usually April Fools Day people would play jokes.
And it was, I think it, I don't know,
it was Halloween or this is released on Halloween,
but I faked the car wreck.
I didn't think it was going to be that good,
or fooling anybody.
I just thought, well,
you have bands that do a podcast with cars.
If I faked a car wreck,
it might be cute or something,
but I had, uh,
at least four people,
I got the impression seriously,
thought I had died.
I was really, yeah, like,
if I was dead,
and I was really going to release that.
In the media, you know,
we'll just publish anything.
I, if there's anybody out there
that has anything to think they could record something
they can see, or perceive
just being entertaining,
walking proofs that you can,
because I'm not even in the IT field,
or the tech field, or anything like that.
And if you've got something to contribute
that you feel passionate about,
or even, if you feel like faking your own death,
there are people that will,
for people that will listen to it.
I'm just a man.
I'm not just a little you or anything like that,
but, um,
just real quick,
I'm not a little you or anything like that,
or me, you might call you,
I'm a lot of shows that are absolutely crap.
But, um,
I agree with that.
Thank you.
You know, I don't know if,
if, uh, people's appreciation of meeting has changed
with the,
the advent of YouTube
in more peer-to-peer media,
but, uh,
people will listen to anyone on the microphone,
no matter what they talk about,
unless they're being offensive to that person,
then they won't.
Well, then they might,
because then, you know,
but see this,
there isn't much that people won't listen to.
Yeah, as long as it's interesting,
it's pretty amazing how people will listen to it
for the content,
and the production quality,
and even like you're perceived,
Flair doesn't really matter all that much.
Speak with Flair.
Well,
you know, Dave talked about,
Dave's fake car wreck.
Well,
now for a revelation that,
I had an actual car wreck
when recording an episode once.
I had done a setup similar to what Dave was talking about,
and I was going southbound on a road
when someone who was illegally in this country
made a left hand turn in front of me,
leaving me zero time to stop.
My recorder was destroyed in the wreck.
Why the episode was never released.
I wrote my hand
in a couple places.
If the cops father used,
like, what can you say?
Yeah, it's recording a podcast
and then he cut me off.
Sure.
Yeah, that's something that never came out.
So,
that is my recording horror story.
I wish that
my box in here.
But I,
you know, to go off what Sick Love was talking about,
I think what really is going on here is,
you know,
the ease in which people can get the content
is getting easier.
The barrier takes for someone to get
the content they find,
you know, even with a mode of come-up interest.
You know, with, you know, RSS aggregators
of some nature or another,
you know, proprietary or otherwise,
has made it easier
for someone to get the episodes
over and over.
Instead of having to go to every site
to download the episodes back
like you had to when RFA was in its original run.
And you had to go to their website
and download each episode
where you had to tune in
to their live stream.
Now, granted, you know,
it's great to be able to tune into the live stream,
get involved in an IRC conversation.
But, you know,
having to make that commitment
at that certain block of time,
you know, with even the DVR revolution
is showing that people don't want that.
They want to be able to consume the media.
They want to consume when they want to consume it.
And I think that's really what's going on here
is RSS distribution of content is making it convenient.
For me to get the content I want
or anyone who, you know,
takes a little bit effort to figure this out
and consume it when they want it.
Yeah.
More stories?
Kids.
I'll get to recording these things.
I just do them from my own experience.
Except for the one I did driving.
So, I don't have any horror stories
of crashing cars or
burning up, burning babies or anything.
Well, you're on my kids.
Yeah, you're on your kids.
The hardest thing for me is
to get a nice quiet area to be rewarded.
You have two daughters who like to have their friends over.
And we have to do a lot of laundry.
So, if you're going to do something recording,
don't start your dryer at the same time.
It's halfway through.
You don't have a going on.
And that happens quite frequently.
What about recording next to a jet engine?
I mean a server.
Servers can be very loud.
Don't record in a server room.
Don't take the opposite approach.
I recorded in a library once.
And you have to be quiet.
I probably have done a lot of really poor audio.
Yeah, I think you're right.
And I know how to do bad audio.
The good audio is pretty difficult.
You can get fairly good audio if you just pay attention to your surroundings.
Have somewhat decent equipment and do some post-production.
But again, you know,
it's more about the content so much than the quality of the audio.
You know, you're always...
Not a month goes by when someone doesn't make the mention of stuff that we do.
That doesn't sound like Leo, of course,
Christophe, their audio cast.
And even they have problems too.
But if you're going to dump thousands of dollars into a studio,
then you better have good quality.
But you don't have to...
You're going in over a million and half a year.
But you don't have to have a lot of money to get decent quality.
But again, the current time I feel is more important.
Yeah, I agree.
Especially...
How dare you cut me off?
That's right.
Especially when you get multiple audio sources involved.
If you're doing interviews, talking with people,
what are one person?
And you're doing it from remote.
You get to be doing Skype.
You're doing Astros.
You're just doing a lot of telephone calls.
Recording from a cell phone.
Do it deviates his way.
You get such a variety of quality.
You're going to record from a cell phone though.
You've got to use a headset and have it wade away
because we'll pick up the GSM sound.
Or using...
Or if you're...
Another way is Google Voice because that allows you to be...
Google Voice is another option if you want to record phone calls.
That you can have someone call you and then you can record the call.
So...
They've got a phone call to call me.
R-Ready at the shak, you used to sell,
I can play stuff on my lives.
Like, $19, this is...
It's inline recording device that you can record telephone calls with.
And I've done a call-in show, actually, on the way home,
from a well-eared one year.
I just published my Google Voice and other people would call me out.
They ring my cell phone number and I just...
If...
If that is recorded for like six hours one day,
if people call me and you've got a question?
No, if you want, you can also get it for the cell phones now, too.
Yeah, that's one time.
I meant to say cell phone.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I would hook it between my cell phone and my reporter,
and it would just, I don't know how it works.
No, it's $19.
Yeah.
What's he said?
It's a train phone.
I don't know too much about it.
All right, all right, all right.
Thank you for that comment.
Well, it's...
And Dave, I think I'm not the only one who said we could be willing to say,
we miss your phone and show.
Um, but a trick for if you can't be in the most confined area that I learned from
more gallon is actually to set your bike up and then put a speaker next to it
with some very innate or some very low level background noise,
something like running water because you can go out there and find sound effects
of like a running stream.
Run that at a very low level.
I think it was like six inches to a foot from your bike,
and it helps kill any other background noise,
but it doesn't overpower your own voice.
That is a clever idea.
I had never heard of that before.
And you can let it out there.
You can press it after that.
Yeah, yeah.
That's true.
From listening to what he put out with Ninja Night School,
it does not seem to mess things up,
but it's something you can give a try.
I mean, what's five minutes of your time in compression
if you can get some good audio that way?
Are we talking about noise removal or are we talking about compression?
Dynamic range compression or noise removal?
When he was talking about that much, that's going past what I...
Okay.
He was asking a thing when you press it after the fact.
Are you talking about noise removal?
Are you talking about dynamic range compression?
Okay.
All right.
That's what I thought.
Yeah.
I can't speak to that.
I'm not an audio engineer,
and I don't even pretend to play one on the internet.
Okay.
I just pretend to play a guy who loves movies.
The dynamic range compression is...
You know that, don't look at me.
But you asked.
But they didn't ask.
Does anyone care about dynamic range compression?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's going in.
What is dynamic range compression?
There's something.
Dynamic range compression basically makes sure...
Well, you know how the easiest way to explain it is,
you know how in a photograph, if you take a photo,
and then you bring it into the digital dark room,
and you kind of pump up the levels to bring up the brights,
and then you take down the shadows,
and you're increasing the contrast, right?
So in audio, that contrast sometimes can be very, very drastic.
And one thing that a lot of times when you just want to send it back out to people's ears,
you don't actually want that dynamic range.
You want to kind of make it a little bit closer together,
so that it's a more steady sound,
so that they're not adjusting their volume all the time out.
That silver hurt my ears, I better turn it down.
Now they're talking softer.
They're not using as many parts and sounds.
You know, stuff like that.
So they need to rip it back up.
And then I have to...
You know, so, don't have range compression just kind of says,
okay, well, here's where the low part is.
Here's where the high stuff is.
Let's try to kind of bring those closer together.
And there's lots of different...
There's verbal.
He does podcast stuff.
He probably does dynamic range compression all the time.
So it brings it in a little bit.
And one thing I would warn people,
because from a show I used to listen to,
called, Epibill radio.
Fill in the blanks if you like, it's the 101.
But they did an episode where they...
Yes.
But...
Yes.
But...
Yes.
Bunchbill radio.
But they...
They injected the 2600 hertz tone in there.
And unfortunately, his audio quality levels were great.
And he just dropped it in there.
So you're listening to it at a level that's just fine to hear him.
And then your ears explode and blood when the 2600 hertz tone hits.
That's pretty insane.
Okay.
Sox will do it dynamic.
Just compression.
Sox will do that.
Sorry.
Won't the socks do?
Yes.
Okay.
Adaptive will do the same.
Will it make me steak?
I do not vegetarian.
It is 16 and 29,
which means it's more audience participation time
since nerve-racking.
Just kick that off.
Any questions for any of your favorite HPR hosts?
If...
What was that?
What was that program you were talking about using digital darkroom?
Is that something for Linux?
No.
Digital...
I'm sorry.
Are you kidding or are you yours?
Okay.
Sorry.
No.
Digital darkroom is a generic.
Sorry.
I wasn't sure if you were like meeting me on.
So digital darkroom is a term for, like, is a generic term, actually.
So if you're...
If you got like a photograph and you take it into the computer,
you're doing digitally what traditionally photographers would do in the darkroom.
So we call it digital darkroom.
But it could begin.
It could be Krita.
It could be Digikina.
No, I see.
No, it's okay.
I'm sorry.
You're probably doing for it right now.
No, it's a very generic term.
It could be anything.
It could be absolutely anything.
So, I mean, it could be image magic.
You know, it could just be, like, anything that affects the photograph in a way that you would have done in a darkroom.
You know, I wonder if you can actually do that with the image processor.
If you just have, like, the...
I mean, if you have a really high horizontal resolution, it just has, like, like, blue...
I don't know if you could...
I don't know.
Yeah.
I mean, in theory...
Black and white...
Yeah.
...have the amplitude be the...
Right, yeah, yeah.
I think they have a question back there.
Oh.
Yes.
Question for Dave.
What?
What a horrifying term.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I mean, in theory...
Black and white...
Yeah.
A horrifying term of events happen to me and they can voice down like it does now.
I use...
Because I'm lazy.
Sorry.
Because I'm lazy with my own podcast and maybe...
Maybe with HPR, I can't remember.
I guess a lot of people have...
At the beginning of the show, they record a intro that tells people what they're going to listen to, I guess, in case they don't want to listen to things stop.
And I use a...
I don't know what it's called.
That's festival.
I use festival and I use a voice codec to...
To have this artificial female co-host named Lynn introduce the show and do the outro at the end.
And I think there was just a version of festival...
There was a revision change.
I'm assuming it was festival.
It may have been some underpinning of the sound system.
I can't imagine it being there.
But I think festival changed versions in Lynn.
All of a sudden, I couldn't pronounce where she used to.
I debated getting rid of her.
You'd almost think that something so integral to your podcast, you'd have kept the old source code around.
So you could just keep re-enactment.
I did.
I did not try.
I mean, my best to make her not say words funny anymore.
I really hope that what happened, Lynn met the Hawkman from LynnX Outlook.
Lynn met Hawkman from LynnX Outlook and while they're getting married next year.
That's what happened to her voice.
Just a...
I like that.
Just a sort of tangential subject with the...
He was saying that people usually have intros and atros.
So I had this intro that I would do every once in a while.
You're listening to W-A-R-T or radio.
The time is seven o'clock, which means the time, once again, for whatever, whatever, whatever.
That's from Pete and Pete.
If I hadn't recognized that.
But Deep Geek didn't.
And he was telling me about how he can't figure out what port radio is.
And I even read Google's and he doesn't find anything in radios.
And he took me very seriously about that.
I thought it was hilarious.
Deep Geek takes a lot of things away.
Not as jokes.
Yeah, you know, that was a completely off the hook way to start a show.
That's where he comes from quite rightly.
Any further questions from the audience?
Yes.
What kind of topics do you guys carry when you do a radio show?
All right.
I'm trying to think if we should just each give an answer and find out how random it is.
You know, I mean, I do multi-media topics a lot.
And just whatever I've been working on that week, like in terms of learning how to SSH with exporting and able, you know, just random stuff like that.
Because I'm not really qualified to be doing episodes, but I do them anyway.
I have literally done an episode once before of the feature of Firefox, where you can download embedded information that's on the page through one of the tabs.
It's good stuff.
I have a really short series and really, like, it's coming out three months from now.
But I did a series called Demo or Buzz about the demo scene.
And then I'm doing a series called Uberly Packer Force, where I just try to release programs.
And then everything else I call was the latest radio theater of 4,096.
What are some of the programs that Uberly Packer Force has released?
And where can they find them?
Uberly Packer Force, all one word.
Thank you.
I can't remember any specific topic I've ever done.
I've not done an HGAR episode in over a year.
You did that one, how will we end the episode?
I did that one, how will we end the episode?
I've probably done 24 or 25 episodes, but I can't really honestly remember.
I did one on this garden, which is a web-based RSSB generator.
I've heard a lot of the episodes.
I've done an episode on a movie of lives.
I've played around with doing an episode on my favorite pair of shoes.
You were hearing episodes on everything, much better than the ones I would pick.
But I've heard episodes on Urban Inspiration.
I think Morgan may have done more.
He went underground or something.
I've heard, I think, troops did one where he went to a graveyard.
You hear all kinds of things.
I'm only going to say, I'm going to say here again, I don't have to say that.
There's really, I can't think of an episode that wouldn't appeal to one of you.
There's a damn, how many episodes?
500 and something, something.
Does it say 300?
No, five seconds.
Is it a sequential?
Five seconds.
There's almost 600 episodes.
And then at the 340WA tech.
It's slowed down some.
One thing I would like to do is encourage anybody in here.
This got a tip or a trick or a favorite set of fire box extensions or a way to get around a fire wall or just anything.
Anything you want to talk about, I think there are people who listen to it.
All of it.
Or you could even talk about what's in your bag.
And that, you know, is one of the infamous segments that Dave started was, you know, if nothing else,
grab a recorder, pick up your bag that keeps your laptop, any of your techie toys in.
And just talk about what's in there and why you keep it in there.
It's interesting, you know, there's going to be a lot of repeat.
But maybe you've got a novix CD in there that is three years old that you carry that one particular three-year-old CD
because it's the only version of novix that a boot off of one would boot one machine.
And we want to hear why.
I'm not sure why, but it sounds interesting to me.
Yeah.
I mean, Hackers on the Grails is a show really about just literally any topic that hackers, geeks, whatever would find interesting.
And I think if anything from the self-proclaimed lack of audio fidelity and quality that this group has admitted to,
you know, anyone can record it.
It's just a matter of picking up some device that records and most everything these days does.
I mean, a digital camera will usually do voice-in-most.
I mean, you can record on anything thrown into some program like Audacity, possibly.
Possibly not.
Just email me, clad2, at hackerpublicradio.org, or the guy who kind of manages it inigma,
which would be admin at hackerpublicradio.org.
And just say, hey, here's an episode for you.
Play it.
And we'll play it.
And it's a good way to be internet-fans among very small-match group reported load meetings.
Yeah, yeah, a load meetings, even.
I mean, it's just like anything.
You know, I hate to, you know, push this particular product.
But it's one that's very popular and more than a few people might have in here.
How many people in here have iPods or iPod touches to be completely on it?
Come on.
Come on.
Come on.
Come on.
Now, the reason I bring this up is, like I said, one of my original episodes for TWA Tech
was how to record using an iPod.
Look at the two iPod Linux.
And you literally, after you get iPod Linux, and it says of the ability to record.
It has the feature to record.
It doesn't have to go out and buy a special app.
Plus, it also gives you the ability to play back formats that, you know, that rotten, you know,
piece of fruit that never wanted you to be able to play back anyway.
And you simply record, after you get everything set up and going, by speaking into the left headset,
or the left earpiece of a headset, iPod touches, they have recording software that you can get.
It stays in the way.
You can dump it out easily.
So, these are devices you already have.
You've got a way of recording right now.
It takes you about 10 minutes of work to get there.
Okay.
So, I agree with you.
I agree with everything that's been said.
Let's talk a little bit about our favorite hacker bullet radio episodes.
This time, I am going to start on the left-end.
What is your...
There was a question left over.
Well, who?
Where?
More to ask me how?
Was it going to be a question?
I asked you a question.
I asked you a question.
Where is question in line?
I'm curious.
No.
I was curious about whether we could see a screencast or a video of the demo stuff.
Yeah, screencast would be a lot more appropriate.
I don't know if I could do demo shows anymore.
To be honest with you.
But maybe it would be true.
Honestly, I think Enigma would post it if someone did a screencast.
I don't think that would be a problem.
Possibly a problem.
Well, I meant specifically about the demo stuff.
About, okay.
Yeah.
I know I didn't.
I kind of got what was going on, but not really.
Well, I don't know if you know.
I didn't...
Well, didn't Monster Be do an interview with you on his show or was it on hacker bullet radio?
It was on his show.
I don't know if you've heard it.
It was Linux crank outcast.
So it was like one of the three episodes of that that existed before he completely gave up.
And he just quit podcasting entirely.
That guy right there.
That's the TIT radio.
What?
Whatever.
TIT radio.
Hi.
Hi.
Come up here, Mom.
No.
I'm not a duty.
All right.
So the guy who's hiding there in the front row.
So he didn't interview that kind of explains.
I felt it explained pretty well what that whole scene was about and kind of what you could expect to see.
It's a visual of a screencast with the perfect.
I entirely agree.
It's a matter of whatever it's all about.
He wanted to do it and ask if that makes sense.
But it doesn't have to be about that like screencast in general.
Was that like a request for donations or something?
Is that what that was?
No.
All right.
Apparently you all give her money.
See if we'll do it.
That's screencast.
No, no, no.
Any other questions?
Yes, very prompt.
Very prompt.
Very prompt.
I would not ask a panel if there's any one particular like trick or tip that they found as a big time saver in producing an EO podcast.
Don't edit.
Get good at editing.
Get good at editing.
Instead of your, instead of your audacity, like a real pro app should be set up and have like you know keyboard shortcuts for all the big.
You can just find keyboard shortcuts in audacity.
So one inch of the mouse, one inch of the keyboard, get through there and get edited enough so that you know that where.
So that you can recognize what waveforms are actual words versus like.
You know and get all your get those out of there and then just export it.
It takes no time at all.
So combination of those tips is get really good at editing but don't ever do it.
Yeah, correct.
How much of a thing do you do?
Do you do it?
You do it on your show.
Then you.
How much of a thing do you do on it?
What show?
I just did general.
What show?
You're talking about.
There's PRT a lot together.
Yes.
Oh, yeah.
Country Department of the Leaf, I do some post production.
I do.
The tech show is two and a half hours plus.
So what?
You look like you're about to say something.
I was waving the nick.
Oh, good.
The tech show is two and a half hours plus.
And we pride ourselves in getting it out as soon as possible after we were done recording.
So what I mainly do is if I know places that there was silences, pauses, or bad audio in the fuzz,
I will go in and clean up some of that stuff.
The generally speaking, I try to run through normalization and the decompressor if the audio quality is just a huge variation in audio.
And I try and do as much as possible with that.
That usually takes about 20 minutes to run through those automated processes throughout asking.
I've tried going around of really seriously editing it for two or three hours at a shot to get things as crystal clear as possible.
I just didn't see if it would work.
Any editing you're going to do is going to increase the time show.
If you're doing a show by yourself, like you had in the public radio show, I found this is another one of those things where it should save time.
But it's also increased time for talk about topics.
You can talk about topics you don't have having to do extensive research to flush out the information because you know something you do day in a day out.
But then again, it was the topic you know, probably going to be able to spend a long time talking about it.
One thing I would caution everyone, and this is for people who are in cases like me, I am 75% deaf in one year.
And if you're going to have a stare, put your show out and stare you know, be careful how do you mix things down.
You do not want one person in one channel, the other person and another.
It just sounds bad in general, but then you leave people like me where I'm listening with the headset in the place where I'm going, wait, there's two hosts.
Wait, I think I just heard a breathe.
So you know pay attention to, you know, when you're exporting out of audacity, how you're exporting.
But one thing I do to help me speed up the processes, I've actually, with the help from a couple of people, I've set up a batch script to do my encoding work for me.
So I start out, you know, dump out a wave file, it spins out the MP3 and the aug version both for me and it normalizes them and tags them with the metadata for me.
Nice.
That cuts out a lot of time to actually, and I just, you know, hit, you know, conscience of information and hit go that is available on one of my websites.
Mind if I have it?
Absolutely not.
That's it, I do not mind.
Okay.
That's the board drawing complete dot the digital or no, just the digital dragon's layer dot is where I've got the script.
And all you need for it is I need three, an employer and lame.
Part of the author?
Well, August comes on a lot of systems.
So that's why I'm not.
So after that, and I have to say the normalization came through and player came from this man right here.
Nice.
Which I got from somebody else, but I was going to say I do kind of same thing that Lorde does.
Once I have the wave file, I dump it, I process it through a Python script that I have.
It's all the encoding, the ID3 tags, normalization.
It'll then bump it up to the servers and we have, it'll do the organ empty three files in the one location, and then the speaks file in the archive location.
So there are two different locations.
And now with the new website we have coming out, it's also going to hit the website to run a script to automatically add those shows to the website so they're available for download immediately.
The other thing I'd like to do is have it spit out the RSS feeds too.
It's proprietary software.
I'm getting impacted.
I haven't released it yet because I like to say I do.
I would love to get the RSS encoding done in there.
So we're automatically spit out the fees.
And then I want to put a GUI on top of it.
This is a command line run right now so that you can actually enter an information that can be generic for anybody who wants to produce podcasts.
I had that in my head.
I've been working on it for years.
I haven't gotten too far with any of this stuff because I've just got it to functioning for the way I want.
Dan.
Nowadays, Dan, we don't need a GUI for command line battle.
Verbal, I should also mention that Deep Geek is also working on a really interesting idea of if you do the podcast in a very segmented kind of fashion to basically take those segments,
normalize them, concatenate them together, and then encode them.
So he's kind of working on something along those lines.
I've actually seen that done before using socks.
So once again, so socks does everything.
Including cook-by-stake apparently.
It's, we're kind of out of time.
Thank you for coming.
I have stickers.
Taco Bell is the greatest stickers.
So if you want some, you can come and get them.
They're free.
Awesome.
Awesome.
You can go for it.
And so thanks for coming.
I'll see, we'll, I'll see you at the festival for the rest of the day in March.
One of the things, simple things like this can be your friend in making a podcast.
Compilers.
No.
What?
It is part.
So if you need simple solutions for simple problems.
Thank you for listening to Acro Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by caro.net.
So head on over to C-A-R-O dot N-E-C for all of our community.
Thank you.
Thank you.
