Episode: 791
Title: HPR0791: Interview with Moose about Ohio LinuxFest
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0791/hpr0791.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 02:35:15

---

Hello everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and welcome to today's episode on Hacker Public Radio.
Today we have an interview for you from with Moose,
Coordinators for the Ohio Linux Fest 2011.
The Ohio Ohio Linux Fest is a free and open source conference and expo in Columbus, Ohio
and it's going to be held on September the 9th to the 11th 2011.
The Ohio Linux Fest is a free and open source conference and expo in Columbus, Ohio.
The Ohio Linux Fest is a free and open source conference and expo in Columbus, Ohio.
The Ohio Linux Fest is a free and open source conference and expo in Columbus, Ohio.
The Ohio Linux Fest is a free and open source conference and expo in Columbus, Ohio.
The Ohio Linux Fest is a free and open source conference and expo in Columbus, Ohio.
The Ohio Linux Fest is a free and open source conference and expo in Columbus, Ohio.
Okay, how are you doing Moose? Are you still there?
I'm still here. I'm doing well. Thank you.
First of all, I want to thank you very much for coming on tonight and recording a show.
Thanks for the invitation.
Not a problem. Not a problem.
So can you tell me a little bit about yourself and why you're on the call today?
I think with the Ohio Linux Fest for four years now, I think I started working with the training sessions that are on Friday and sort of worked my way up.
And this is the year that I am chairing the conference.
So I sort of have my fingers in every little part of the pie this year.
Okay, if you could just tell the listeners what the Ohio Linux Fest is.
I am working on the assumption that nobody listens to any other podcasts out there.
But if you could just give it a run down on a general background on what the where it started, how long it's been running, where it's physically located and, you know, a general what you can expect.
Well, this is the ninth year for the Ohio Linux Fest. The Ohio Linux Fest started out originally as an interlug meeting for various lugs around the Columbus and other parts of Ohio area.
And it grew. It grew substantially and what happened really was one year they sort of went to put together in it.
It wasn't completely coming together and one of our people, the amazing Bethlyn Eiker came in and just grabbed the horns and pulled it into the conference that it is today.
And we've gone from I've seen pictures of the first year where it was held on the Ohio State campus and there's 60 people in a classroom all listening to somebody talk.
And the past couple of years we've had between 1100 and 1400 people total come through our doors.
Wow. So yeah, we continue to grow. We as as we've been planning this year, we're already talking about what can we do to make sure we continue to grow next year.
How do we spread out? What more do we add? Which way do we go?
So we're constantly growing and we get people from all over the US and from Canada because we're actually fairly close to parts of Ontario.
So we get we get folks from all over the place and it's just amazing.
Yeah, I hear it's fantastic. Unfortunately again, I don't live in the universe where I can afford to go. But hopefully with our friend Latubin there will be able to get a lot of recordings so we can have at least the feel of what's going on at the event.
You say it's from the 9th to the 11th. Is that Friday Saturday and Sunday or?
Okay, I'm looking at the schedule here on the Friday and I see there's three tracks are assigned.
The OLF, the early penguins, the medical track, Ubukon and cloud community day. Ubukon and cloud community day don't appear to be running on the Friday. Is that correct?
They are running. They're just empty the schedule because we have yet to get the exact details of what they're doing both.
Ubukon and cloud. Which is a company used to be known as us are committed to putting on a day of stuff related to their their particular areas.
I'm not quite sure what the cloud schedule is. I've seen a preliminary schedule for Ubukon, but it's all talks related to Ubuntu, including talking about the I forget what they call them the specific Ubuntu logs.
Colotes are that's it. The Ubukon like the medical track and the early penguin track are free and open to anybody can wander in.
The cloud community day will require some pre registration, but it will still be free if I remember correctly.
The only thing that costs money on Friday is the OLF Institute, which is our day of professional and personal training classes.
How much does that set you back? It's $350, which is it sounds like a lot of money, but if you know it doesn't.
Yeah, if you start comparing what you can get it from other places for day of training, we're really competitive.
And our classes tend to be geared more towards system administrators with this year. We're really branching out.
We've got a class on doing a programming and a class on photography and using open source to manipulate and archive and such your pickers, as well as all other classes involving Python and Nagia monitoring and databases.
And we've got a couple of Apache classes from somebody from Apache.
And this is on Friday. On Friday, we have a class. It's actually only 250 for people who it's called Linux Basics.
It's for people who want to learn more about Linux, but are afraid to give it a spin who wants them to hold their hands while they do their first insult.
And we'll offer up laptops, which the students can then buy for something like $100 at the end of the class. And we'll walk them through installing Linux.
And another popular class we offer every year is what's called a LPIC cram session because on Sunday, we offer certification testing, including the testing from LPI.
So for people who are looking to take the 101 and 102 tests from LPI, we have an all day cram session for people to take.
So that's just some of some of the classes that we're offering on on Friday and $350 gets you gives me the day of classes lunch on Friday, lunch on Saturday, and a commemorative OLF T shirt.
And just say do you have to pay more than to just do the exam?
Yeah, the exams have their own cost. They're variable depending on which which exams you take LPI offers a bunch of different exams.
I don't think that's expensive either.
I don't I think you are correct off the top of my head. Of course, I can't remember. I don't think I've got that information up on the website yet because I'm a bad person.
No, not told you it's where we're recording this question early in the in the year. So I mean, a lot of things will will change.
And the folks here know how to use a web browser. So they can mostly on over to Ohio Linux.org and check out the schedule over there.
And just let's finish off what's going on on the Friday and you tell us what the medical track is and why do you feel that you need a medical track?
Open source in medicine is becoming a really hot topic. A lot of the more expensive computer conferences are starting to pick up and cover it as well.
And the whole idea is that essentially from anything from your records to the information that doctors use to store their own information, communications, anything that's electronic in the hospital should be running and source.
The woman who runs it Susan Rose, who is a recently retired nurse, has a very big interest in this.
She used to work for the VA system and the amount of money that the VA would spend on proprietary software. They're not the only ones.
So I also think the concept of using open source for for for example, for your medical records.
How would you like it to be easier for you to get a copy of your own medical records? Now, I don't know when the last time you tried getting a copy was, but last time I did, I practically had to get an attorney involved.
There are laws to prevent in the US at least to prevent other people from getting at your records, but it's impossible to get your own.
So some of the talks that that Susan Scott lined up talk about everything from using open source for your records using open source to run a medical office.
And even using open source to do medical research experiments. And this is this is a really big thing now.
And there's a lot of interest between both the IT world and the medical world. There's a lot of overlap.
So I'm not familiar with the industry around Ohio. Columbus especially is there a lot of medical manufacturing companies there or is this just happens to be because of our because you have a community member who's interested in the topic.
It's because of that I honestly I'm not from Columbus. Self I'm actually from about three hours north of Columbus, although some of our about.
I'd say a few a half of our staff are from the Ohio Columbus area and the rest are scattered around.
Even in other states like me. But yeah, this started with Susan's interest in this.
And she started two years ago with a buff a birds of feather section, which was standing room only.
And this is this has become pretty popular.
Fantastic. What's the early penguins schedule track? I see you got writing games with TLC.
TCL TK. I think it's okay. Among other talks.
Early penguins started again two years ago when we look one look at the piles of talk submissions that we are we you know you always get more than you can use.
And it was criminal to say okay, you know, we got 80 submissions. We have 55 that we badly badly want. How do we pick?
And someone said now we've got some extra space on Friday. What if we just started offering some of those talks there and we can call it early penguins.
And it will be free just like on Saturday. People could just wander in and see sort of it's a preview and and somebody wants to describe it is the best of the rejects.
But that's kind of a cruel and wrong way of looking at it because these are people that we didn't reject because their talks were bad. They were people that we had to reject because we just couldn't find the room of them.
They reject I mean for Saturday. We only have I think it's 23 22 or 23 slots on Friday or Saturday. Excuse me. And when you've got 80 submissions.
We rarely had a submission that we don't say oh, I want this. Oh, I want this.
And just the last one of that talk. Sorry, I'll just go through the early penguin talks. So what kind of cult is Linux anyway is Mark turn over the classic economy for free.
Bethany Andersbeck Linux for all dirt.
Guri Shireen is there better pronunciation of that?
Okay, 3d printing and the early penguins King key notes the past 20 years of Linux by John Maddow call. I don't think any track with John Maddow call and it is ever going to be a reject track in my opinion.
So I was going to say Maddow is basically the Godfather of the Ohio Linux Fest. If Maddow can make the conference mad dog is seeing at the conference.
And there's nobody better to be starting out and ending the Ohio Linux main spoke of the conference with a dog talking about the past 20 years of Linux.
It's where he'll be starting to fantastic.
So this is the Friday we've worked through. I guess on Friday, you know, if you have a company who's willing to give you some funding for training that will be an ideal.
An ideal way to guess to the Ohio Linux Fest and seriously 350 and probably for under 500 dollars for the training and whatever it is for the hotel.
Relatively cheap HR win for your department on the training section. So advise everybody to see if they can wrangle that out of their company.
And speaking of tells you have recommended hotel or which is our work.
Well, our conference tell is the jury, the jury and the Columbus Arena district location. There's a link if you go to hotel info on our website, Ohio Linux.org.
We get a discount, which includes a parking spot when you go through the click. There's a click to make your reservation. If you go through when you make the reservation, it'll aim that you're going to pay for parking, but you won't.
It's a really nice hotel. I mean, it's not.
Bendy splurgy, but it's it's very clean. It's very comfortable. We're really happy with the jury.
And it's right next door to actually attach to the invention center.
There are other other other hotels on the convention center as well. And we'll be putting up links to them soon as we bring them up as backup hotels because we do sell out the jury.
Okay, fantastic. So on the Saturday, who starts at 45 with a welcome in general track one and general track two.
So we have one to general track three for enemy of the open source solution stage.
And you tell us what the open source solution stages before we start talking about the other four tracks.
The open source solution stage came out as a way for sponsors to be able to talk about their products.
Because the mission of the Ohio Linux Fest is to talk about free and open source.
And we want to make things available for everybody. We try to keep the talks in the general tracks as vendor neutral is possible.
So anybody who wants to talk about something that's specific to what their company makes.
We geared we steer them over to the open source solution stage.
And these are due to our sponsors who are also have a table or a booth in our expo area.
And some of the talks from the open source solution stage have been graded some of the highest.
So this is room is usually standing room only people from we have healed packet already lined up to talk.
If you last year I someone from IBM gave a absolutely fantastic talk that was spilling out into the hallway.
And I feel terrible. I can't remember what it was.
But this is this is a really popular track.
Who are your sponsors exactly.
I see Google Hp IBM.
A whole schedule open stack.
These is folks that that we're we're we've got so far we're still working on some more.
Google HP and IBM are platinum sponsors have long been sporting us where we're always very full to them.
But we're thankful to all of our others as well host get our open stack of the Linux.
Now machines are our tools I believe is new this year.
A reason.
And we have others coming down the pike where we are always accepting new new sponsors.
I don't want to start giving away.
Obviously negotiations, but this list is going to grow.
Fantastic.
Okay, so on the Saturday from 845 to 9 o'clock.
We have the welcome and in track one and two is three, four and the open solutions stage empty at that time.
And also I guess we'll be the same with the with the morning keynote by from cutting malrose.
That'd be correct.
Yes, we yeah, we try not to schedule anything else at the same time of our keynote.
Okay, so she her talks to be determined, but on the web page about the whole.
You have that herself and her husband founded optimized for Linux computer company in the early 2007.
Okay, so then after that there's a room change to make way for the staff and interact three and four in three.
We have 48 hour film project competing with open source software for Ronald test Linux and open source for almost zero cost PCI compliance.
Roughly out rough week red man.
And then HP will be in the open source solution stage.
Anything to say about these talks?
Just that I every time I look at the schedule, I think that if I were attending this conference, I could not pick what which one to go to.
I know what you mean, I know what to be the media talks are always very popular.
But last year we had a lot of complaints that we didn't have enough business related talks.
And I think the PCI compliant talk is one of the ones that's going to make our business oriented people a lot more interested.
Absolutely.
Then they from 11 o'clock to 1150.
We have how soon is now by Matthew Tudon.
Then interact to level up with lies, down lies and statistics on your live data into data driven video games for floss by Mel Chow.
Final cut, no, because the industry and you by Mr. I love tattoo from hacker public radio and some other podcasts.
It's great for less filing open source marketing by Torres Baloch.
And then, sorry, anything you want to say about this is this is one of those the more I look at it the more I wonder how how could we put these four up against each other.
How soon is now it doesn't look like much of anything until you actually look at what the talk is about.
Basically, it's about dealing with the fact that break into social corporations are occurring almost on a basis and what we have to do about it.
I have never seen Mateo from talk, but I can tell you that Mel Clotu and Tara, I don't have to tell you about Clotu and Tara's are what I learned from a friend to call phone book readers.
You could hand them a copy of a phone book and put them on stage would be riveting.
And I want to be in like all four of these rooms at once as speaking of which will you be recording the shows this year.
We try to audio record every show. There are a couple of speakers who specifically requested not to be recorded, which is their privilege.
I could not tell you which ones off the top my head unfortunately.
We do do audio recordings. We get a lot of requests for why are we doing video recordings and the answer to that is we haven't been able to afford equipment yet.
If anybody wants to help us out with that and sponsor some recording equipment video recording equipment, we'd be delighted just to put the word out to you.
That here in HPR, if you want to another avenue to release those episodes here, we're more than happy to release them on our syndicated Thursday.
So they're coming here.
Okay, we carry on.
So I was going to say we make the recordings publicly available and I believe we put the list on the link to them on our on page of our website.
Are the released under a creative comments license.
I believe so. Yes.
Well, then they'll be on syndicated Thursday. I can assure you that.
Then 12 to 1250 pass or theory breaking encrypted file systems are on two points.
HP WebOS, the mobile Linux platform done right by Matt Narroki, advanced video production with floss by Kirk Kimmel.
The business of Linux, how individuals can get into the game by Arlene Robinson.
Anything to say there?
Again, this is one of those, you know, which one do you pick dealing with encrypted file systems.
This is this is not going to be a talk for beginners, but it's bound to be absolutely fascinating.
HP WebOS.
Again, you know, mobile Linux is just absolutely fascinating, at least to me.
Again, video production media talk to always well populated, very popular.
And Carly is just a fantastic speaker.
We're really looking forward to having her.
It's it's kind of cool.
You've got two security related talks one after the other in the same room, two video related talks one after the other in the same room.
Yeah, I guessed was who did your schedule?
I'm sorry.
Who is behind the schedule?
Our speakers here is Phil Richie.
This is his third year, more or less, him, lengthy speakers.
So he's got a really good feel for what we need.
He works with a small help from others offering opinions, but he also understands who what he's going to go for for what we need and who our good regular speakers are.
And what's together well?
Gotcha.
Do you have the will you be using the Android application from our good friend?
Dan from the mid TV cast?
I don't remember if that's the person I've been talking to.
This is one of the Linux link guys.
Yes, I have been talking with him about that.
And I need to get together with him and discuss how we could make this available.
But we would really like to.
I'm sure there's a lot of people there who would prefer to be able to just look at their palm and know what's coming when.
Gotcha.
Speaking of the Linux link tech shows guys, they're going to be doing their live broadcast and raffle between one and two on the Saturday, which is a great time so that they'll have.
We'll have everybody else from all the shows available there.
That's our lunch break.
Lunch is only available to people who sign up for a.
The professional past does it's called, which was the $350 to get to the Friday class or the supporter pass, which is $65 and gets you a t-shirt and lunch on Saturday as a thank you.
And so this gives folks a chance to grab lunch and come back to the bottom two and get involved with the tech show, which was really popular last year.
Everybody loves these guys.
I don't know if they tell you that.
I know.
So then after that to it locked to 250.
We have your databases exposed HD SQL by Catherine Devlin.
Real world jobs skills.
The free software way by Scott Merlin.
Asterix has hacks by Kevin Fleming, managing a computer lab in a high school environment by Michael Fisher.
Again, popular, popular talks.
Asterix is always a big thing.
Catherine Devlin is another person you could get her up on stage with a phone book and she just be absolutely fascinating.
Skippy's been, Scott Merrill has been involved in a lot of off and on over the years and he is one of our favorite people.
Mike Fisher is actually a high school teacher and he's coming to the festival with four of his high school students to give them a chance to network more and learn more about open source in general.
And we're really looking forward to this chance to sort of be a living lab.
I guess it is for some students interested in working it with open source.
Absolutely fantastic.
Again, as I say, you know, I'm going to grump here and grump here reading this list because knowing that I won't be there for this.
Sorry.
That's okay. What can you do?
From three, three, fifty, then we have had up had dope the new adoop, the new paradigm for analyzing data by ram rail robotics programming 101 by Scott Pearson.
Linux appliance is future integration available now by Don Vosper.
Linux and open source in math science and engineering by Douglas Davis.
Again, a bunch of four people really involved in open source.
I think the robotics programming is going to be interesting to everybody.
Hadoop is really popular. Keep running into references in it all over the tech websites are about various things.
Getting Linux involved in science and engineering is always important as we move on.
And Linux appliances is again a popular topic.
Yeah, and again, see here in the afternoon, we have a sort of trend breaking out into track one appears to be sort of way we cloudy stuff and track four seems to be educational stuff.
So again, good schedule coming up there.
And then four to five, four, fifty crash course and open source cloud computing by Mark Hinkle open source GIS with map server.org.
A map camap and post GIS by John Jackson, graduating the UI by G objects for beginners by Paul Freels.
So you want to write a technical book by Drew Levin.
Again, popular topics, cloud computing, I'm sure you know is is a big buzz word right now.
Everybody's all about the cloud, the GIS, the open source GIS stuff and everybody is a lot of people use map stuff all the time without even thinking about it anymore.
The PiG object is a Python, a GUI, Paul Freel does an amazing speaker as is Drew Levin who is teaching a free BSD for Linux administrators class on Friday.
Ah, yeah, you're doing an insertion for BSD as well on Sunday. Yes.
Okay, so that is is five, five, fifty, there's a room change and then there's going to be a talk by Bradley Coon.
Yes, and if you reload web page, you'll see that it actually has a title now.
And that title is with software as a service is only the network loadout free.
Oh, probably talking about copyright issues and the like having to do with the software as a service concept.
Yeah, and then closing keynotes is the next 20 years of Linux by John Maddog call fantastic.
I've yet to see him speak.
Oh, yes, I know.
Oh, very well for you people living over in the States being able to go to conference is very intense.
Oh, I'm sure it wouldn't be very hard to get Maddog to go just about anywhere.
He pretty much was just spent most a month, I think, in South America going to various conferences and celebration 20 years of Linux and stuff.
You just need to get the right conference over there to invite him.
Exactly.
I'll get on to that.
So anything planned for the Saturday night?
We are planning to have our regular after conference party as well as our Friday night pre party as we call.
We are still finalizing details of where to have it.
It's a bit of an issue because there really aren't many places close by that can handle around 500 people at once that don't charge six arms and five legs and a pancreas.
We usually get some vendor support for these parties for which we're always very thankful.
But it that support only goes so far if the site is charging a lot of money.
But those parties are the thing of legends in the public community.
So we'll continue the legends.
Yes, I imagine so.
Unfortunately, Dan is going to be there this year.
Congratulations to him and his wife.
But I'm sure one of the other TLLTS guys will step up into the fray and continue the legendary.
On Sunday, what is the story of what's going to be happening?
On Sunday, as we said before, we do our certification testing.
We do various LPI exams.
Oh, and look, there's the price around $100 for the exam.
So for the one of the high rep left ones.
Yeah.
And I do have the information for the for the BSD exams to pop up here.
They're offered at two times, I think, 11 and two so that people can actually take more than one test if they'd like.
On Sunday, we also run our diversity and open source workshop, which is a developed thing as we try to get a feel for the best way to do it.
But we're basically talking about the best way to encourage diversity in open source as a whole as well as in the.
The lug and conference world as well.
The idea that we don't want to see bugs and conferences and open source projects and everything just be a sea of white male faces.
It's nothing wrong with white male faces, but other people.
The more other people are involved, the more other people feel comfortable being involved as well.
So we're not out to to disclose to encourage and sort of excluding, we're not out to encourage other people to stop or go away.
We're out to encourage more people to be involved in open source.
And there's.
Oh, sorry, I'm going to say there's that there's another group from Fedora that's interested in holding something on Sunday and we're working out thing with them as well.
Okay, fantastic. One thing we can cover was the bird of the feather sessions.
Yes, unfortunately, bird of feathers sessions are up in the air right now, although we hope to fix that soon.
We have a rule that we started last year that if somebody doesn't take responsibility for something, it doesn't get.
And we started it because we're an all volunteer organization, nobody collects a salary, nobody gets any out of this out of some satisfaction of working as a team to get a really great event done.
But because of that, we also have a tendency to say, hey, we need to do this.
And then the next thing, you know, each of us is doing 17 jobs and most of us also have a full time job for that pay stuff as well.
And we get burned out, we get exhausted stuff starts not getting done because we're over tired or exhausted.
So we adopted the rule of that's a great idea now find somebody to own it.
So we put out a call for someone to take over the birds of fetish and some we've had a few people responded are going to pick one and get them going soon.
We're going to run our birds of feathers sessions on Saturday during the main conference.
And it's basically an informal way for a bunch of people to get together and talk about something that's not being addressed otherwise in the conference.
That is absolutely cool. And then of course we have the exhibitions and exhibits.
We get a host of both from our sponsors to some of our media sponsors to we have a set number of tables for.
We have a couple of calls dot orgs and edges, nonprofits who can buy a table to despair on our expo for for a much lower price.
And it's it's fairly good size. It's a great place to meet some of the companies that you hear about net's a great place to pick up little charge keys and toys and.
It's always crowded excuse me.
Another problem allergy.
Yeah, I know we're allergic to me all the time.
I'm just wondering will we be able to organize a table there for Hacker Public Radio or at least have some presence maybe slipping in on the Linux link textual booth.
But we'll have to see.
Get closer to the data.
Well, think about it.
And if you're if you're going to want your own table, we only have a minimum number of small number of tables for the dot orgs.
I forget how much we charge for them. I want to say $75 and that maybe more than it actually is, but they're their first come first serve when we run out.
We run out.
So don't wait too long.
Yeah, I don't I don't mind paying that.
Obviously, I won't be there.
So if there is somebody in the HBR community that is in platoon, who would like to help out and man the booth or woman the booth or whatever the booth.
And you get in touch.
Admin at Hacker Public Radio dot org. I really love to have a presence there where
Codecruncher Poke myself and platoon, we've really built up building up a nice conference pack put together.
So essentially all you need to do is come there, sit down and knock on anything and not enjoy the rest of the show.
Oh, I'm really selling this booth duty now, but if somebody wants to volunteer for that, that'd be fantastic.
And we'll see that you get all the kid that you need.
The first year, I went to a highlight fest that the first year when I was involved with the training classes, the training classes were done with a different another organization, which was there.
And the organization also had a table and I spent all of Saturday and get to see one talk. I spent all of Saturday at the booth.
The robot just over and over again, giving the same pitch for our organization and by the time 6 p.m. rolled around.
I was like somebody put my off switch.
Yeah, I know I've done the booth work with myself, so I'm actually looking forward to doing that in coming soon.
Actually, a little probably have been by the time that you hear this going over to a company, okay.
So that's pretty much it. Was there anything that we didn't yet cover in the in the interview?
What are the nearest airports nearest transport? How do people get there?
Well, to be honest, the majority of the people drive a lot of people come from within a three hour radius.
But we do get a number of people who fly in the nearest airport is the Columbus airport.
The conference hotel, I believe, runs a shuttle as does most of the other hotels in the area.
The convention center itself is not far from I 70 in Ohio.
It's funny. Nobody thinks about giving directions. You're just punching into a GPS or print out the map from Google Maps or something.
But it's actually pretty easy to find. It's a pretty large complex.
Fantastic.
So we've covered your sponsors, we've covered the show, we've covered the things.
The only thing that people need to do now is are you looking for people to pre-register?
That was just going to say we haven't talked about registration.
Yes, people really should register even if you're only coming in as what we call an enthusiast, which is free.
As part of our mission to be about free and open source software, as part of our mission to be about making things open to everyone.
Our basic registration, which do you into the three tracks?
Ubicon medical track and early penguins on Friday and gets you into all of the tracks on Saturday.
It's a free registration, but only if you pre-register.
This year for the first year, we're going to charge a nominal $5 for people who walk in just to cover the extra work that has to be done for people who walk in.
And we do get a number of walk-ins.
And we're not going to be crazy about it.
We're not going to charge for senior citizens. We're not going to charge for any students.
So, you know, if you're a student with an ID card or you're with your parents, we're going to have your word for it for, you know, you're being a student.
We ourselves as both family and business professional friendly.
So, you know, mom and or dad want to come down with some of the kids.
We're not going to charge you $30. We're going to charge you $5 or $10.
And the kids can all come in.
We're also have two other levels, as I mentioned before, of registration.
You can register as a supporter, which is only $65.
As a thank you for supporting the Ohio Linux Fast.
We will give you lunch on Saturday, which is a really nice box lunch.
We have a vegan available as well.
And it's actually gluten free, too, for people who have that issue.
And we'll give you a conference t-shirt, which is really cool.
I'm going to get the pictures online very soon there.
They're red and they have minus 91 or minus, I'm always mispronounce his name.
On the back to celebrate 20 years of of Linux.
And then if you want to take our professional and personal classes on Friday with the 11th to 2,
it's a $350 registration.
And as I said, that gets you lunch on both Friday and Saturday and a t-shirt and the Friday classes.
That's fantastic.
One other thing I also bring up, which is not our website yet.
And I really need to move on this is our anti-harassment policy.
There's been a problem, especially in the US.
I can't speak about other countries where presenters and attendees both have acted in a.
I'll use the term unprofessional manner.
There have been cases of assaults of various types.
There have been cases of presenters getting on stage and showing pictures of mostly naked people.
And we do not tolerate any of this.
And we will have a public statement in our program and on our website detailing this and what to do if there's a problem.
Our speakers have been told for three years now that we will not tolerate images in their.
Talks that they would not want their boss or a family member to say.
We would not also tolerate language that they would not want their or their family to see.
And what I told them the first year that we did this was, you know, I'm not going to go you off the stage if you slip and let out a bad word.
But if you stand up there and start first thing like the mythical sailor that that's it.
And the arch speakers have for the most part overwhelmingly accept this.
And this year we're taking us further and encouraging our attendees and our sponsors and everybody who walks through the door to behave that way as well.
We want this to be open for everybody.
And that means acting the way you would at work, acting the way you would in front of your EO, acting the way you would in front of your grandparents.
And this is something that that we expect from everybody.
Fair enough.
I can't argue with any point there. I don't see any reason to do not do that.
I just find it a bit of a pity that you need to go to such a extent that people don't realize that it's a community and some things.
It is, it's an absolute tragedy that we have actually things like this.
But I can point you to a list of things that have happened at previous other conferences.
And unfortunately, there have been a couple of occasions in the past, the Ohio Lynx Festival art on this list.
And we're embarrassed, but it's honestly true.
We had a vendor whose background had a woman in a very small bikini, which I mean, you know, you wouldn't show this in the office.
You wouldn't show this to your CEO.
And there have been cases at other conferences where people have made sexually inappropriate references.
And we shouldn't have to say these things, but unfortunately, we do.
Okay, I know about that. Let's move on to some larger things.
I know the Ohio Lynx Fest has been the boilerplate template for a lot of other fest.
How open is your planning and can just also a little bit about that?
We meet regularly on IRC.OFTC.net channel pound Ohio Lynx every Monday at APA Eastern.
Anybody is welcome to come and get involved.
We keep a wiki on source forage, which is close to editing, but visible of everybody.
We try to dump out as much information as we can as a hope that other, especially new fast conferences can look at as a template to use for trying to decide what should we do.
We've helped out various other conferences, which consider themselves, if not spin-off, then maybe little siblings of Ohio Lynx Fest.
I think Southeast Lynx is one of them.
There was one in Ontario, Toronto, maybe, that unfortunately seems to have, excuse me, folded.
I hope that's not permanent.
Indiana Lynx Fest was new this year.
We share some staff members.
Some of our most valuable people are also valuable to Indiana.
We try to keep our planning as open as possible.
Anybody is welcome to join in.
We encourage people to stop by if they'd like.
The information for the IRC is also available on the wiki.
Fantastic.
Can people offer to volunteer for Talbos at the show?
Yes. On the front page of the Ohio Lynx.org, there's currently, there's a mill address.
I'm actually in the process of building a form for people to actually use so they can volunteer if they want to volunteer for specific areas.
We need people to help work security, checking ideas at the door.
We're going to use bands, colored bands this year.
We get a lot of walking people and we've never really get a close attention to make sure that people are actually registering when they come in.
People have said, well, you're free. Who cares?
It's not that we want to take people's $5 and that type of thing.
But the more people that are registered and that we know are there, more we can go to our sponsors and say, look, we had, you know,
1,500 people, 1,600 people, 2,000 people show up.
This is why you want to sponsor a Ohio Lynx fest and so we're not doing.
We're not enforcing registration this way to to keep people out.
It's to bring our sponsors in and make us more bring ahead them bring us more money so we can continue to grow.
So we need people.
Sorry.
I guess the fire marshal to be interested as well with just.
Actually, I don't think come anywhere close to hitting the fire marshal limit.
The we're using, I think, about one tenth.
If that much of the convention center, the convention center is huge.
And we're in those the three ballrooms, but right near us are rooms that you could take those three ballrooms and they barely fit one of the corners.
We're nothing compared to a place can handle.
So yeah, we need we need people to to help with security to help deal with problems, watch the rooms, watch the doors.
We need people to help with the the speakers shares to to assist with any of the speakers if they need it to help to do the speakers and monitor question and answer period.
We need people to work our bookstore, which is a partnership with Barnes and nobles where we offer up a variety of boss related books, some of which have been authored by some of our speakers.
Yeah, we need people to help with the sponsors loading in, loading out their booths and tables.
We need oh my goodness, I know I'm missing other things we need.
We need people to help with our registration tables in the mornings.
I'm sure this other stuff it like I said, I work in the middle of working on this page, but if people would like to volunteer, they could take a look at the hyalynics.org web page for the information they need.
Fantastic, let's have them do that.
It's getting kind of late here now, so there's anything else you want to add.
I think I have absolutely covered everything including going on an accidental rant there for minutes, sorry about that.
Just remember that if you want, you can always do a five minute update as a show and we'll pop it into the queue without a problem and we'll also be mentioning this on our monthly roundups as well.
That's terrific. So once I have more details on our notes, you can get you that.
That would be fantastic.
Okay, and with that, I'll thank you very much for calling in and folks if you are going to hire Linux Fest and you're interested in doing a booth for HPR, get in touch, add me an attack of public radio.org.
Thank you very much, Moose and talk to you later.
Thank you, take care.
Thank you.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio. For more information on the show and how to contribute your own shows, visit Hacker Public Radio.org.
Thank you.
