Episode: 964
Title: HPR0964: Sunday Morning Linux Review Episode 026
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0964/hpr0964.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 05:45:51

---

Tim 40
tube
Welcome to the Sunday Morning Linux Review, with Matt Anders, Tony Beamous, and Mary
Tomage.
All right, so this is April 8th, 26th.
The Easter episode.
Happy Easter to all of our Christian, happy Passover to all of our Hebrew friends out there,
and to if you're not Hebrew or Christian, have a day, happy equinox, have no actual
happy two weeks after the equinox.
Have a day.
So Matt, what did you do this week?
What did I do this week?
I actually got these new nifty sound cards from China, the USB sound cards, and they
were $1.78 a piece, so I bought 10 of them, and I haven't tested for all 10 of your
computers.
I haven't tested the input on them yet, but the output works perfectly.
You can hop plug them right into the USB port on my laptop, and then bam, all of a sudden
now I've got a new sound device, and it works.
The only problem I had, and that's why I have two of them that are open, because I thought
the first one was broken, or I thought it wasn't working.
When I plug it in for some reason, the volume goes down to nothing, where are you laughing
when that happened?
No.
But the volume goes down to nothing, so I just had to crank the volume up and they work
fine.
All right.
But I haven't tested the input on them, but I'm sure if the output works, the input will
work fine.
Sweet.
Well, I don't know.
I've had instances where I've had problems with that, but yeah, I'll be interested to
hear what happens to you.
So maybe next week, you can get some kind of a mic to plug into it.
I don't have a...
Oh, if I had known, I would have brought one.
Oh, I do have the...
Hey, Tony, remind me to take one of the headsets from the box.
Okay.
They've got mics on them.
Yep, that's right.
Oh, so we're going to know maybe faster than we thought.
So that sounds like a great purchase, and you bought ten of them because they were such
a good deal.
They were $1.78.
Yeah.
And I wanted to get the free shipping from China.
Oh, okay.
All right.
I guess I think this is...
It was cheaper to buy a $1.78 than to pay by two and get shipping from China.
Okay.
Well, that...
And they came via US Mail, which is kind of nifty because they have two mail stickers
on them.
The real one and the fake one.
No, not the Chinese mail sticker on one side, and then they have the US mail sticker on
the other side.
It was kind of...
I was thinking maybe it was a...
Because they came in a padded envelope.
Yeah.
Well, I get a lot of stuff from China.
And...
The US Mail?
Yeah.
And it's kind of interesting because there are just times where the shipping is free.
And what I can't figure out is they must be...
They must just slap a label on it right by the facility where it transitions from the Chinese
mail service to the US mail service.
And usually you pay in the country of origin so that most of the travel for this occurs
in the US mail system, of course.
So that's the only way I can think that they can make any money with free shipping.
Well, I had to...
eBay stuff, I guess.
Yeah, this...
I bought this from Amazon.
It was actually...
You know how Amazon does that where it's...
It's the Amazon portal, but it's a third party...
I avoid Amazon.
It...
But it's a third party, so I was buying it from the third party.
And I think I had to get like more than five or something, so I just wanted to...
No, okay.
And it was an easy number to work with.
Yeah.
So...
Yeah.
Yeah, works really well.
Oh, good.
Good.
That's what I was doing this week.
Playing.
Cool.
Well, this week I made a purchase.
About ten minutes ago.
Yeah.
I got ten minutes ago.
No, it was probably about an hour ago, but...
All right.
I bought Mary's nook.
Oh, that's not true.
Oh, yeah.
No.
I'm actually pretty excited about it.
You know, does it have a microphone on it?
Because that would be cool if it didn't.
Then I could do my...
Matt, should I tell him?
Should I tell him it doesn't?
Oh.
Does that...
Can you plug a mic in?
Um.
Hmm.
Does that USB slot?
I don't see...
No, it doesn't have a USB slot.
Oh, I see what you're...
Yeah.
No, it doesn't.
It's got the microSD card slot.
It's got the...
Well, actually...
Well, it's just a power slot though for the charger.
Well, it's a data cable.
So, that's how...
To...
Ramen.
Don't you?
Or do you put a...
Throw it out.
No, I did it right off the...
Right off the microSD card.
Oh, right.
Hmm.
Yeah, I put it from that.
Put the microSD card into your laptop.
Yeah, I had downloaded some files and then...
And then...
And then...
And then moved it from there.
And then it just...
Wipe it...
Put a...
Signage and Mod on it.
Which...
Seven, I think.
But I think they've got nine out now.
So you may want to look into that.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to do it again.
Make sure we wipe your stuff off.
Yeah, make sure you wrap up my Google account.
Because it's still on there.
So I'm going to warn anybody if they get...
Get mail from my...
Detroit MI Girl at gmail.com.
It's probably not me because I don't use it for mail.
It's Tony sending out under my name.
All right.
So what did I do?
Well, something we'll talk about a little bit later.
I did experiment with the OpenSusa Build Service.
And...
Unlike my earlier experience with trying to compile a kernel,
I was...
I'm happy to report that I was able to...
put together a working ISO that I burnt to a DVD
and I booted from.
Cool.
Yeah.
Well, I guess we'll talk about...
Underdistra...
Yeah.
...segment.
But anyway, so that was...
That was something I did.
I think that was probably...
Maybe the most momentous thing I did.
Matt, what's happening with the kernel?
Under release candidates.
Sorry, I missed this last week,
but Linus did not release it until almost 8 PM Eastern Daylight time on Saturday
and I did not check on Sunday morning before we recorded, so I'm very sorry.
But last week,
3.4-RC1 was released.
And now this week we have,
on Saturday,
the 7th of April,
and...
Let's see.
What's 3 plus 19 is 21, right?
No, 22.
At 2200 Eastern Daylight time,
Linus Torvalds released kernel 3.4-RC2,
and he had this to say about it.
So go forth, my eager minions,
go forth and compile and test,
because nothing beats that warm fuzzy feeling of knowing that you're on the bleeding edge.
But at the same time,
RC2 is not quite so bleeding edge that you need to worry too much.
So the main line is also 3.4-RC2 now.
We also had some stable updates this week.
On Monday,
April 2nd,
at 1252,
Greg Crow Hartman released kernel 3.0.27.
121 files were changed.
1172 files were inserted.
450 files were deleted.
Also on Monday, April 2nd,
at 1335 Eastern Daylight,
Greg Crow Hartman released kernel 3.2.14.
168 files were changed.
166 files were inserted.
793 files were deleted.
And then also on Monday,
April 2nd,
at 1354,
Greg Crow Hartman released kernel 3.3-1.
And 227 files were changed.
2,077 files were inserted.
And 1,207 files were deleted.
And my kernel quote of the week is,
this was posted by Linus
in response to Greg Crow Hartman,
publicly making fun of a kernel contributor
for doing something massively stupid.
Publicly making fun of people
is half the fun of open source programming.
In fact, the real reason
to issue programming
in closed environments
is that you can't embarrass people in public.
Linus Torvalds.
So that's the kernel news for the week.
And I'll try not to miss those late released candidates
from Mr. Torvalds,
working late on Saturdays.
Yeah.
Well, I think,
I think is doing what he did today,
you know, just before we hit the record button,
you check one more time.
Yes.
You know, then you can work it right now.
Well, I normally do.
I just didn't do it last week.
I don't know.
I just slipped my mind so.
Yeah.
All right.
Tony, what's going on
with the Linux distributions this week?
We have a slim pickens this week.
There's only two...
Pickens.
Didn't...
Wasn't that a ban deal player?
He gave us a country.
He's a country guy.
I didn't know he was a...
I didn't really know he was a Linux guy.
From beyond the grave.
Yeah.
From way back.
All right.
All right, Tony, we've picked any of them.
What he got for us this week?
On the second, we have Draft Linux.
There, are you going to read?
Draft.
Draft?
Yeah.
Draft like Draft.
Draft like the...
What is it?
Plenty of...
Yeah.
Because that's one of those forensic type deals.
Yeah.
They say that it's just a bug fix update.
7.1.
And then the fourth puppy Linux, 5.3,
wordy and racey was released.
I keep seeing.
Did we talk about Fudontu last week?
What was the development?
I'm pretty sure we did.
Yeah, did we?
Fudontu?
Fudontu?
It wasn't Sunday 4.1.
It was.
And Fudontu wasn't released until 4.2.
Oh no.
I missed that.
Where are we?
Oh.
Oh, you know what?
I stopped at the...
The SD development release?
No, no, no.
The distro weekly?
Yeah.
That hangs me up sometimes too.
I stopped when I hit that, but...
You got...
Yeah, Fudontu.
There's a couple more roles at the scroll,
but in there, and you'll find it.
Yeah.
Yeah, so Fudontu, which is a Fudora-based...
So Fudora, that wants to be like...
You want to.
That's what I call themselves Fudontu.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, either one of you tried this on or...
No.
No.
No?
Hmm.
It's been quite a while since I've done distro testing in order to...
I'm sorry.
I try not to distro hop very often.
I just don't.
And I try and avoid the RPM distributions.
For all my personal laptop, on servers, I run CentOS sometimes,
but for my personal self, I really try and avoid RPM.
And I've read that somewhere else too.
And not that you'd said that somewhere else,
but somebody else had said that.
And I think it was actually in reaction to an article
by Carla Schroeder about Clear OS,
which was formerly Clark Connect.
And she was trying to determine...
She was kind of using why people...
Why it doesn't get the attention that it deserves,
because it's a...
Well, I think...
And I remember Clark Connect.
Yeah.
Yeah, Clark Connect.
I'm just kind of a little small business server.
Yeah.
But...
So she was just saying it's really pretty solid.
And I think...
Well, they've got a development release,
which we don't cover, but...
Right.
Well, somebody...
My bias going to be finished, Matt.
Oh, sorry.
Thank you.
But someone in response to her article said,
do they have a virgin with...
with Debian packages?
I don't want RPM or...
It's something that that affect.
And I just heard you say that.
So what's the problem with RPM?
It goes back a long ways.
And there really is no reason for it anymore,
since the advent of Yom.
But my Linux experience goes back before Yom.
Oh, yeah, that dependency hell.
Yes.
And you would...
You would fall into RPM hell a lot.
Oh, my gosh.
This one...
And then you'd go into this next one.
And Debian had apt, and apt just did it all for you.
And it was so beautiful and nice that...
That's what made...
gave me my bias.
Okay.
But like I said, with the advent of Yom,
the bias really has no standing anymore,
but it's very hard to get rid of our biases.
Okay.
All right, Tony.
Sorry.
We took a little side trip.
But...
Yeah.
No, the reason I like...
I stick with the Debian-based
is because I just don't want to think hard enough
to differentiate the difference between Deb,
like, apt and Yom.
Anyway.
So we got the distros of the week.
Number five is Fedora,
with 15-11.
You...
We're not going to go back and talk about Puppy.
Puppy.
Yeah, Puppy.
You know, actually Puppy...
I said it.
He did mention it.
Oh, I didn't hear that.
Yeah, he did mention it.
I heard Deft.
And then I've talked about Footunto.
I didn't hear Puppy.
Sorry.
Yeah, he did.
He mentioned Worry and Racy,
which I thought was kind of interesting.
And I'm...
And I...
Puppy traverses two tracks, don't they?
One's slackware-based,
and the other is, I don't know what-based.
Uh, I was hoping you'd talk about that.
I don't know that either.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure that's the way they do it.
Like, either Worry or Racy is slackware-based,
and the other one is based on something else.
And I'm not sure what.
It's a nice...
It's a nice light weight.
And I...
I use the term light weight in the most positive ways.
It is.
Um, distribution.
Although, yes, hey, speaking of distribution,
so remember, on my thumb drive as a rescue tool,
I used to use that...
I used to use Puppy on that...
Right.
On that one gig thumb drive.
Yeah.
I have switched over to that other...
To, uh...
The, uh, Trinity Rescue.
Hmm.
And, uh...
Are you liking it?
Yeah, I got it.
I actually got the thumb drive to boot now.
It's...
The problem was, I posted on the...
This was like going back like two weeks.
I said I was going to post to their list.
Yeah, yeah.
I posted to their list and like 35 people read it,
but nobody gave me a reply.
And I discovered on my own what I had done wrong.
I had used the tool.
It's called...
The tool is called, uh...
TRK to USB.
TRK stands for Trinity Rescue Kit.
And it's a script inside.
Like if you, when you boot the live CD,
it's a script that's on the live CD,
then write it to a USB drive for you.
Oh, right.
It reformats it and does everything for you
and makes it really easy.
The problem is I had it mounted when I did it.
And then it wasn't bootable for some reason.
So I just had to redo it with the thumb drive unmounted.
Oh, because the script mounts it and...
I don't know what I...
It probably couldn't rewrite the partition table.
And so it couldn't market it's bootable.
Something on account.
But you manually marked things as bootable.
Yeah, but I didn't.
But it has to be unmounted to do that.
And he had it mounted.
Okay.
Yeah, you're right, okay.
Okay.
So once I did it unmounted, it works perfectly.
So matter of fact, I'm going to do some testing with it today.
I have a customer's laptop over there.
All right.
We're going to do some testing with it.
Oh, that sounds like fun.
And I think last week or a couple of weeks ago,
I said I was going to take another shot at Paralympics.
Oh, yeah, Paralympics.
And I did.
I burnt a live CD.
I first burnt the KDE one.
And of course, it booted very nicely into a very airy and bright desktop
with your typical packages.
But did you get that?
I went...
But I did.
No, did you get the Mac feel?
Did it give you that bar at the bottom with the Mac kind of a feel?
Yeah, what I did after the KDE one is then I burnt the other one,
which it's the Commisolass I think it is for.
Right.
And it does.
It's got the little dock at the bottom of the screen.
But the KDE one does not, right?
No, it's KDE for it.
It's a traditional KDE environment.
Yep, it is.
I think it's, I want to say, for eight.
But the other one did give you the little dock at the bottom.
But the first time I tried to, it actually crashed a couple times on me
in the live CD environment.
I'm not sure why.
I was trying to go into the menu and take a look at some things.
And suddenly it just froze on me.
So then I rebooted.
Second time it did because there was an option to turn the laptop into an access point.
And I was trying to remember if I've seen that in other network utilities.
But you could turn it into an access point.
So I thought, oh, I'm just going to give this a try and see if it works.
Well, it froze on me.
So I just thought, oh, I'm just going to stop right here.
Yeah.
Anyway, but, uh, but yeah, very nice, uh, very nice desktop.
Um, maybe, maybe I'll just throw it on a partition just to see how, excuse me,
see how it responds when it's actually installed.
Yeah, speaking of making your laptop into access point,
I was just looking at, on my Ubuntu machine,
and network manager has that button on there too.
So I think it's the network manager thing in, in Nome or something.
Yeah, I'm thinking Nome.
Okay.
Because the Nome manager.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cool.
Oh, yeah.
Because these are known shell, um, and, um, with that dock at the bottom.
So, okay.
And of course, in KDE, I'm not sure I've got that.
I think KDE is a different network manager.
Yeah, it is.
Is it the K network manager?
Yeah.
Hey, it might be.
It might be.
But I don't recall seeing anything about turning it into an access point.
But I've always liked Nome's network manager.
Yeah.
KDE is much better than it used to be.
But Nome's system is pretty good.
Maybe, uh, because I'm using cinnamon on mint.
And I don't know that I have network manager that is using network manager,
although I thought it was.
It should be a mine.
I mean, I have Ubuntu, but you should still be using the same.
You right click on the icon.
No, when you click on it once, then at the bottom.
Yeah.
But it just says network at the top.
It doesn't say network manager in my little window.
Yeah, mine does the same thing.
And then when I go to wireless.
Sounds like it's time for a distro change.
Oh, right there.
Now I see it.
I didn't see it the first time.
All right.
Use as a hotspot.
Never mind.
Yeah.
You know, just thinking with all the, um, the conferences coming up,
wouldn't be cool if they had a laptop in each room because they're recording conference.
And then they, and they have a wire running to each of those laptops, like an ethernet wire,
then just on the laptop, make that the hot spot.
So instead of running a separate access point out to each of the rooms,
then the laptop becomes the access point.
Most hotels are already set up with universal coverage, aren't they?
Unless they don't or unless you want to run a separate network for the con.
Oh, yeah.
Unless you want to like, uh, if yeah, if you want to, well, you could do that with,
with, uh, um, virtual lands at the switch.
Yeah.
But then the hotel has to give you access to their internal network.
Well, they're, they're a network guy because I'm sure the convention doesn't care who,
uh, it would be the hotel that would want to segregate the convention traffic from the regular traffic.
Right.
Not the convention.
So from what I've heard in the past, they've been very reluctant to do that.
Yeah.
But like I said, the con, why would the con care?
So you can run your own DNS and you can run, um,
you can run services that are specific to the con.
You know, say if you wanted, if somebody has their laptop open,
and they want to watch the convention or the, the presentation down the hall,
then if you have it set up right, you know, a big, big button or something,
then you can just hop in and watch that one while you're doing something else.
Because you're kind of thinking about the facts.
You're going to mean that Drupal class all day on Saturday.
Yeah.
So I'm going to the Indian, Indiana Linux Fest this week.
And I really want to learn Drupal.
And I saw it pop up that you can, you can pay for the class.
But what they had on there is it's on Saturday during the regular convention.
The whole day.
The whole day.
So you're going to miss all the, all the other tracks on Saturday.
Yeah.
You can go through it.
And there was a couple in the evening that I really wanted to see.
Other ones, I'm not that big on.
How early does the class end early enough for you to get to some of those evenings?
He says, he says it's all day long.
But it's, it's my choice whether I want to sit there.
Oh, they're going to break from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Couple breaks.
Oh, you're going to, you're going to be able to go to London.
Yeah, yeah.
There's lunch.
There's lunch and everything.
But he says, you can hop in and out.
It's up to you.
And then he has materials that you can just read what I missed.
So, I mean, I've, I've done web development and other CMSs.
So I, I don't think it'd be that hard if I missed a part just to read up on it.
But I want, your book is very different.
So I want, that's why I wanted to have an instructor lead.
I agree.
It's going to cut your, because I've, I've used Jumla a bit.
And I think there's some similarities there.
And I got to tell you, there's a learning curve.
So you're going to cut through a lot of stuff, especially with a live instructor.
You know what I'm excited about is I talk to my boss and for my business.
And he just, he decided he was going to pay for my training.
What?
You don't have anything to do with their website, do you?
For, for my business.
Oh, I'm, I'm my boss.
So I decided to pay for my training.
I'm going to talk to my boss.
Yeah, I'm talking to you.
Whenever I, whenever I have training, my boss always comes.
Or what I do, I'll say, because you know, I work, I tell a commute, I work from home.
So somebody calls me, I'll say, oh, I'm sorry.
I was down in the employee cafeteria.
Just my kitchen.
Yeah.
Okay, okay.
Yeah, cool.
All right.
So, uh, getting back to the district.
Yeah, we got more district stuff to cover here.
We have number five, Fedora at 1511.
Trending up.
Fedunto is at 1612.
Trending up.
You know, when I saw that on the list, I'm like, oh, there must have been a release last week.
But it was this week.
Poppy's at 1714.
17.
Are you reading the most current?
That's what I, that's what I saw.
1612.
That's what I saw.
I just refreshed 10 minutes ago when I was 1612.
Yeah.
We'll go, we'll take Matt and Mary's, we're 1612.
Mm-hmm.
And then number two is Ubuntu at what do you guys see?
2355.
2355.
And trending down.
With mint number one at 3763.
Yeah.
And trending up.
All right.
Although.
Uh-oh.
Here comes an announcement.
I may be leaving the minty goodness.
Really?
Yes.
I've been hearing a lot of good stuff about a solace.
So you are distro hopping?
Yeah.
Well, I don't, I don't distro hop.
Oh.
This is a hopper in my opinion.
Some guy that's putting something different on his laptop every week or whatever.
Matt's distro migrating.
Yeah.
You're migrating.
Okay.
And I'm not even sure I'm going to do it yet.
But I originally started using mint when it was mint Debian rolling edition.
Which, and that was one of the reasons that I went to mint from the Debian desktop I was using.
And now that that I had to switch to the Ubuntu version because that had stagnated for so long.
And now this new distribution solace is by the original developer for the mint Debian edition.
I've been hearing a lot of good stuff about it.
So I really might might migrate.
I remember when you ran OpenSusa.
And you were just crazy over it.
OpenSusa.
And then I think you ran back years ago.
I know, but I remember it.
Because you were just going on and on about that.
And then when I was on fire about three years ago.
Oh my God.
You think it was the best things in sliced bread.
Oh my God.
That's got to be eight years ago.
Yeah.
But the whole time I've lived in this area.
And then I remember you, I think you went to Memphis for a little while.
Not long.
Well, I like Memphis.
I remember that.
I think that's when I first met you.
Yeah.
And then I went to straight Debian from that.
And then you went to, didn't you do Ubuntu a little bit?
No, I never ran Ubuntu.
Okay.
But just an Ubuntu derivative.
Speaking of different distros.
Mario is suggesting that we make up our own distro.
And what were you saying?
Yeah.
And I said that because this week I had a chance to try the OpenSusa build service.
And of course, I went in there without a plan.
So suddenly I realized, oh my gosh, I've got to pick packages and I've got to do this.
So I thought, well, I'm just going to go through the thing.
Just arbitrarily pick some stuff.
And then create the ISO file.
So I did that.
I had an ISO file of about 600 megabytes.
And I downloaded it.
I burned it to CD.
And I booted into my desktop.
It was just great.
So it was kind of exciting.
The Merry distro.
The Merry distro.
Yes.
So then it occurred to me that it might be kind of fun to put together a distro
that's geared toward podcasting so that we've got audio packages, editing packages.
I went out and looked, I looked some things up.
I've got a little list of some websites.
So maybe we could put together a little set of bookmarks that are these, for these podcast sites and things.
Yeah.
For editing audio files.
And so I think it would be kind of neat.
And you also, although you guys are probably aware that you can also upload a desktop.
Visual.
This type of thing.
So you can change it.
I tried that about a year ago.
But the image I tried to do, I was trying to get, you make a thin client kind of a thing.
So I saw that option.
So I stripped it.
Oh, there's an option for it now.
There wasn't one I did it.
Yeah.
I think there's a drop down where you can.
I stripped a bunch of the stuff out.
But I could never get it to boot.
I think I stripped too much stuff out.
Yeah.
The kernel was still in there, wasn't it?
Yeah.
So I'm all for making, having an easy way to make our own digital.
But I.
But then you have to maintain it.
I really like.
Well, I really like the, you know, the dev packages, like I was saying before.
So I'm wondering, I want to extend this out to our listeners.
Is there a digital builder based on devian?
That you would use dev packages for instead of RPMs.
Yeah.
So I'd like to hear about it.
And why?
Okay.
And you don't like RPMs going back to our previous.
It's just a, it's just a, it's a, it's a leftover bias from the tool set that you had to deal with.
Right.
Well, then for me, you know, and just as you guys were saying before, if we want people to look at this and start using it,
there's a lot of people that are used to dev packages.
True.
So that would be cool.
And I'll admit, I mean, I prefer devian, I prefer devian simply because it's, it's easy.
And so, I mean, so I, it makes sense.
But anyway, I just thought it was pretty cool to put that together.
Have it boot.
And then, and then of course, my mind started working on, you know, hey, how can we do this?
Yeah.
The thing.
And I think you guys will remember too.
A few weeks ago, there was here in Detroit.
Or actually, we're in Inxter.
But up in Detroit, there was a parade celebrating the, the non Rouge.
And I wanted to put together a non Rouge, um, distro, which of course I didn't at the time because I was too busy.
But this, this will be kind of cool.
You can have it ready for next year.
Yeah, that's true.
That's true.
And then I'll carry a sign in the parade that, uh, is a link to the, uh, to the download site.
Yeah, that'd be awesome.
It's time for the tech news of the week.
Okay, so what do you got news for there, Matt?
All right.
News this week.
Matt's news.
Matt's news.
Actually, it's open source news.
I just read it.
You saying you're talking head?
No.
I actually write it there.
All right.
There you get it.
Cover that too.
First story.
You dev source to be merged into system D tree.
K severs, the lead developer for you dev announced on the limits hot plug mailing list,
plans to merge the source code for you dev into the system D tree.
When this happens, system D will continue forward using the you dev version number.
So it will jump from 45 to 184.
After the merge, it will still be possible to build for non-system D systems.
He went on to say that builds of this nature will be supported for a long time to come.
This is necessary.
So it's not the break systems within it are D's that lack system D.
The decisions that do not want to adopt system D can build as they always have,
except they will need to use the system D tarball.
The decision to merge the two project was based on the fact that in it needs to be
completely hot plug capable, making you dev's device management and knowledge of device life cycles integral to system D.
This makes this merge a change in build scheme, not a change in direction or interface.
This leaves the lib you dev appy untouched.
So what all of this boils down to after all the bruhaha settles down,
is that in essence nothing really has changed.
So next story, Google Glass Jetpacks must be just around the corner.
This is so cool.
I have been a fan of science fiction since I could read.
Well, everyday reality seems to be catching up with the science fiction of my childhood.
If you have not seen the video yet, head on over to YouTube and check it out.
These are the kinds of things we geeks have been saying are coming since we were children.
They are so futuristic that I am still having a hard time believing they actually are actually intesting.
The internet rumor mill has been swirling around this for a while now,
and Google calls it project glass.
It is being developed at Google X, Google's R&D laboratory.
The announcement on Wednesday 4.4 about field testing for Google Glass was released in a post on Google Plus.
It is, however, for Google employees only.
The designs shown on Wednesday are just a selection.
They have more including one that can be incorporated into your existing eyewear.
The biggest question raised by this announcement.
The biggest questions raised by this announcement have already been answered.
Those questions being, won't these get in the way of reality?
And won't these just separate us more from real life?
Well, according to someone who has used these in an interview with the New York Times, the answer is no.
They let technology get out of your way.
If I want to take a picture, I don't have to reach into my pocket and take out my phone.
I just press a button on the top of the glasses, and that's it.
The glasses do have a unique look about them, and people will know you are wearing them right away.
They will hopefully get smaller and be able to be integrated into a regular looking pair of glasses.
I don't care if these are impractical or don't work.
I want a pair of these right now.
This is the science fiction stuff I used to dream about when I was a kid.
How far away are the personal jetpacks?
I saw those glasses, and it kind of reminds me.
Well, yeah, they are, but you know, it will happen.
It's going to be like those Bluetooth earpieces, you know, people walk around with those things.
You're big with this.
I mean, yeah.
It does look really cool.
In the show notes, yeah, we're going to have the video, and that's really cool.
Although I have to say, it did remind me a little bit of the Siri commercial where you've got the lady there.
Well, yeah, because the video is definitely a mock-up.
The video is not the fun part of the video.
And right for spoofing.
But it is so cool.
So let's hope that Google, that reality is a little, little tour to the video.
I don't know.
Google and Apple and all those big companies.
You got to be a little suspicious of.
But I got to think Google wouldn't release something like that until they worked out the major case.
Next story is, I can write a how-to for governments to seize domains.
Coming to you directly from the not-cooled apartment, it was pointed out to ICANN that it was providing a disservice by not speaking out against government-seizing domains.
So what does ICANN do?
They publish a white paper, a white paper, that is basically a how-to for governments to seize domains.
They have also made public statements that they will work closer with governments to help them seize and censor domains.
This unfortunate turn of events just further illustrates the uselessness of ICANN to protect the internet.
And instead shows how they are actively undermining the very principles of the internet.
Yeah, that story is too short.
I was much more upset than the length of that story.
Boads.
But next story is IBM and Red Hat may join OpenStack.
From the, I made this up to sound important bag.
GigaOM reports that IBM and Red Hat are joining OpenStack.
Neither company nor OpenStack has confirmed this report.
OpenStack was started about two years ago as a joint effort between NASA and RAC space.
Since its inception, it has grown immensely with over 150 companies and 2,000 developers.
I do not know how much Cache these two will bring to the party, however,
as the list of companies already includes the likes of HB, Dell, Intel, AMD, and Cisco.
OpenStack released the fifth version of its software this week, codenamed Essex.
They're having a design summit April 16th to the 18th in San Francisco.
This could be where the new partners will be announced.
And that's the news I have.
All right.
Thanks, Matt.
You're welcome.
Well, I've got a couple pieces of news.
One, of course, is in the KDE world there was KDE 4.8.2 was released on, I think, the fourth or so of April.
And it's primarily a bug fixed type release with a few improvements.
Significant bug fixes include making encryption of multiple folders using GPG, making network, which is good.
Also, X-Render fixes in the K-Win window and compositing manager.
They also said that a series of bug fixes to the newly introduced Dolphin view engine,
and improvements in the plasma quick-based new window switcher.
And then I think contact and its device counterpart contact touch have got some important bug fixes as well.
And so that's the KDE release.
And then also I think there was a little release or some news on Raspberry Pi saying that they had passed some of their testing.
Yeah, they got their little sticker from the whatever whatever your observation of the FCC is.
So radio emissions are one step closer.
So when do you think we'll be able to buy that here?
You could have bought it now. They just couldn't ship them because they didn't have that sticker.
Well, they have the Ethernet thing. They had that Ethernet problem too.
Well, that's just delayed them actually getting them.
Well, you can't go to a site right now and buy one.
No, because they're shut down.
Had you gotten into the site on time for the next four-minute window where it was available?
Yeah, you would have been able to get it.
Yeah, so I'm anyway, but that's what I've got for news this morning.
Cool. Yeah, I pretty short on my news also. I found one thing though.
Yahoo! They have a new JavaScript thing coming out. It's called Mojito.
And it's a JavaScript framework that's supposed to allow easy use for publishing developers to have digital media stuff.
So I thought that was really cool.
That's really descriptive, Tony. I know.
It sounds a little muddled and that's an inside joke for anybody who makes mojitos.
Yes, it is.
You'll watch the mojito being made.
But I mean, it's open source. It's a framework.
So it looked cool. I'm not a developer, so I really don't understand how different that is from running just straight Java or what else is available.
But they said that there's not much available for digital media right now, so here we go.
All right.
Okay.
I mentioned KDE just a few moments ago and wanted to share this little bit for anybody who's a KDE fan like myself.
Although I really enjoy the desktop, there's one thing that annoys me.
And it's the preponderance of tooltips, those little balloons that purport to be helpful, but for a lot of seasoned users are not that helpful.
And there are probably, and again, this goes back to the configurability of KDE, but there are probably, I think, about six or seven spots within that desktop that you can adjust the tooltips.
So I put together, and actually this was inspired by someone who I think had done it in KDE 451 that I found when I was out cruising the internet, but I put together a list of the locations on the desktop where you can disable tooltips.
There are a couple, and actually one that I found kind of interesting is in the Dolphin file manager, and we were talking about this, I think, earlier.
There's a tooltip there that creates this large balloon, and really what it is, it's just a replication of what's in the information panel.
Those of you who use Dolphin know that off to the right side, you've got an option of adding that panel.
Well, if you get your tooltips activated, all that information then pops up into this humongous balloon.
That may be helpful, but you can certainly turn it off, and you just go to Settings, and then configure Dolphin option, and then select General, and then you can just simply uncheck Show Tooltips, and say that, and you won't have them.
I'm looking over your notes here. To turn off all of the tooltips in KDE, you really have to go to all these different places.
Well, yeah. There's not just one place in KDE where you can go and say, don't pop up these tooltips.
No, there's not, because you've got your desktop, where if you hover, you take your cursor and you hover over it, you've got to take that off, then you've got the panel, the one that really bothered me was the one with the panel, the taskbar panel at the bottom.
Now, I'm using, you know, from several shows ago, I talked about the icon-only taskbar that I use, and then I really like.
But to turn that off, you've got to right-click on the taskbar, then select the icon-only task manager settings, and then in the Appearance section, you have to select Do Not Show, and then it'll deactivate tooltips, but only for the taskbar at the bottom.
And then there's just other areas. Well, you also can get them up in the title bar over on the right side for the clothes, the maximized buttons, those buttons.
So I turn those off, too. Actually, that's broken on mine, because I can't turn them on.
And I like to have those extra buttons, and on my desktop at home, I can't even get the extra buttons.
And those are the ones where you want, if you want to keep a window pinned on your screen, if you're working on something, and rather than alt-having back and forth, you can pin a window.
And that stays in the foreground, even though it doesn't have the focus, so that if you want to consult something on there while you're typing into another window, maybe typing into Libra Office Writer or something, you can continue to do that.
That won't show up either on my desktop system, but here in my laptop it works.
I don't understand how it works. How it works?
Pining. Does the app then has the focus? Is it like transparency? You can see the pinned app, throw it?
No, it happens. No, it stays put. But what happens is that you, and I add this button from the configuration file, so it's really what, and it's a chevron, just like a single chevron,
because I want to keep this particular window on the desktop, even though it doesn't have the focus.
And maybe I've paced some stuff from a text file, or you know, into a text file, like Kate, so I keep it there, and I pin it.
And then if I'm going into, say, Calc, or I'm going into Writer, that type of thing, and I'm either consulting what I paced it into Kate, but I'm working in another app, I pin it, so it stays on top.
I think I get this. You make it small off to the corner, so you can still read from it.
Because I use all my apps full screen.
Yeah, and you still can, except, well, except you wouldn't want to do Kate, let's say, let's say that you got something to say to Kate.
I'll end you right, and I don't open G at it, which is what I use instead of Kate, but I don't open G at it.
I think Kate's probably better, but yeah, well, that would be a personal opinion, because we all know G at it's better, but anyway.
In order to make use of this, you would not want to have G at it, or Kate, full screen.
But then you also wouldn't have, the other app couldn't be full screen also.
Oh, yes it can. Yes it can. I've done it.
You just have to be able to see what's behind it.
If you have, you start typing what's behind G.
But it's off to the side.
Oh, so if you get over, you start typing and it runs behind the Kate, then you won't see what's actually happening.
Yeah, you might have to shift a little at that time, but what I really like about it is the fact that you can just pin that up on the front.
You can get it now.
You know, I can see really nice for that is say you have like some passwords or some information you need to paste into a website.
You can have your Kate or G at it in the corner, and then the website's up, and you can just scroll through and copy and paste it.
I find it all tab works pretty well for me.
Oh, yeah, it might work for you, but some people still think the horse and buggy work for them too.
Let me tell you, once you try this, and after the show, I'll show you what I'm talking about.
And you're going to, I bet I can convince you.
I don't think you'll ever want to use Katie.
Oh, no, not Katie.
And cinnamon.
Oh, you know, I don't know.
But just for, and again, this is going to be in the show notes on the site.
But you just simply, again, go into system settings, workspace appearance, and then you select window decorations, and then you select configure buttons.
And then you just simply, you can go in there and you can add, yeah, you can basically add it.
You can space them out.
And yeah, and I'll show you.
That's cool.
And then I also have the window shade one, too, where you can click on the title bar, and it will go up.
So, all right, so I've tricked up my desktop.
I've seen the title bar, the window shade thing with compass.
I've seen that.
And I'm in cinnamon right now.
And I just right click the title bar on.
I have Libra office right or open.
And I have an option to say always on top.
Oh, yeah.
There you go.
That's the same thing.
Cool.
Well, I've never used that.
I have seen that before, but I never really thought of that.
I wouldn't use it.
I don't use it every day, but maybe every few weeks or something.
No, I've checked always on top.
Now I'm going to go over here and click Chrome, because I don't have right or open full screen.
Yeah, Chrome has the focus now.
And writers still say.
But writer is still on top.
That was pretty cool.
Yeah.
Yeah, you can do the same thing in NOME with the always on top option.
Yeah, and in KDE, it's just a bot.
And so KDE has just gotten this functionality that NOME has had for a long time.
No, actually, no KDE has had it for quite a long time, years.
Yeah, I would assume that KDE has had a longer than NOME.
This is probably new to NOME 3.
But.
Next.
All right.
You're just baiting us, aren't you?
Just being mischievous and baiting.
There you are.
But yeah, so I, you know, again, it's just a nice little thing.
So show notes, show notes.
Cool.
Do you have something there about Libra Office?
You wanted to?
Oh, yeah.
Well, again, just people who use various programs a lot, you want to turn that stuff off.
And I do have something, Libra Office, you can also turn off those tool tips.
And the ones I'm talking about are the ones that, if you put your cursor over one of the buttons on the toolbar, you know, something will pop up.
And you can just go to select under tools, just select options, and then under general, uncheck the tips.
But they also have this extended tips.
And so I thought, I'll turn that on and see what it does.
Well, it not only does it tell you what the name of the tool is, but it gives you some information about what it does.
Oh.
I made sure that was turned on.
A full description.
Yeah, I turned it on just to see what it do.
I like the tool tips.
Okay.
I use them.
Well, that's good.
See, this is...
If I don't know what that little icon's for, I have hover over them because if I'm looking for a tool, then I'll hover over them until I find the tool I need.
But that's...
See, that's...
It's a beautiful thing.
Right.
And then for people who don't want to use it.
Yeah, for experience users.
I think they ought to make this so they can't be turned off.
Okay.
I couldn't even say that with straight face.
Yeah.
But anyway, yeah.
So that was something I've been working on.
Talking about Libra Office, though.
Did you guys see...
Did you guys ever go to Muck2Ware?
I think that's how you say it.
M-U-K-T-W-A-R-E.
Muck2Ware?
It's an online kind of a magazine for your open source software.
They had an interview.
People who liked to muck around?
I don't know where they get it from.
But they had an interview with the guy who's like the head of...
He's Charles H. Schultz-Cofounder and director of the Document Foundation who does Libra Office.
Okay.
In the cloud.
Yeah, yeah.
Libra Office in the cloud.
And I guess they're saying it's going to really, really give that Microsoft 365 a run for
its money.
Awesome.
So...
So, are they charging for that 365?
Yes, they do.
It's Microsoft.
They charge you for everything.
I'm surprised they don't charge you for updates.
Well, yeah, I think...
I can see how it would.
But yeah, it really looks cool.
So, hey, if you get a chance, head on over to Muckdware.
You have the link in the show notes, right?
No, I don't actually.
Oh.
I will.
All right, good.
Yeah.
You emailed it to me during the week, right?
I don't know if I did it.
I think I did as a possible topic for just general discussion.
It's listener feedback time.
All right.
Listeners.
Yeah.
We have...
Well, Keith Passen from last week, he emailed us back, says, we did get his last name,
right?
Or he says his surname, because he's from Australia.
And he says, although you need to think of Dawson, like Dawson's Creek, and just replace the
deal with the piece, so it's Passen.
So, he says, thanks for talking about him there.
We have Steve Barkham, he emailed us saying, thank you, Mary, for standing up for you,
Buntu.
You're welcome.
Somebody's got to stand up to Matt.
So, that's where, and that is still to come today for today's show.
We're going to talk a little bit about that.
And then Brad Exander emailed in about Proxmux, VE, and told us a little bit about that.
So, that's cool.
Did you guys want to say anything?
Yeah.
I can't find Brad's email.
There it is.
Monday at 11 o'clock.
I got it.
Okay.
And...
Actually, before you say that, I was just going to say that one of my friends, listen to the
podcast.
You got a big kick out of the April Fool's prank.
That's cool, don't you guys?
Oh, no, that's Brad's email about something else.
Monday at 11 o'clock.
Yeah.
And this was the email.
He says he's been running Proxmux VE for several years now.
That's right.
Debian based.
One that was a Lenny based.
2.0's squeeze base.
And it's life support system for virtual machines.
Yeah.
And that's what it was.
I couldn't remember what Proxmux was.
Yeah.
Well, we had talked about it last week because it had a release.
And it's basically like a base OS to run KVM's in.
Right.
Yeah.
And he says that he uses it for containers since his server hardware doesn't...
Yeah, home doesn't support the CPU virtualization extensions.
Cool.
Yeah.
That's it.
Yeah, I think that's all we had for no more listening tonight.
Although it's nice that we're actually getting people to email in.
Yeah.
Oh, keep it up.
Well, is it time for my rant?
I think it is.
I think it is.
We're ready.
All right.
That's soapbox.
I have a new warning that I'm going to be reading at the beginning of these.
And here it goes.
Warning.
This article makes...
The nuclear option is...
It's enforced.
Yeah.
Warning.
This article may contain opinions of mine that you and Sunday Morning Linux Review don't
necessarily agree with.
Don't let me get away with it.
Have your say with some listener feedback.
Respond to show at smlr.us.
Who contributes more back to the open source community?
Big, bad, locked down Red Hat or community-driven, friendly, chemical Ubuntu?
Let's look at some differences.
Red Hat has no direct community addition.
They have to go third party with CentOS, Scientific Linux or another one of the Red Hat
loans.
They do have Fedora, but it is not a direct community addition of their enterprise version.
Whereas, canacles and entire set of distributions are available as free downloads.
So, that canacle does have that going for them.
Now, let's look at some other areas of community support, like the Linux kernel.
Red Hat is the largest corporate contributor to the Linux kernel by changes.
31,261, which accounts for 11.9%.
If you just look at the picture after the 2.6.36, there were 7,563 changes which accounts for 10.7%.
Canacle had zero contributions.
If we look at the number of lines of codes signed off on by employer, Red Hat again comes
in at the top of the list with 26,252 lines, equaling 37.7%.
And again, canacle has zero.
Even Microsoft made the list with 688 changes since 2.6.35% for 1%.
And by lines of codes signed off on, they had 2174 lines for 1.1%.
Now, let's look at two more very significant projects, XORG and GNOME.
The largest corporate contributor of code to the GNOME project is Red Hat at 16% and canacle at 1%.
Those numbers are from 2010 and I would imagine that since canacle has dropped GNOME from their contribution has also gone down.
The largest contributor of code overall to XORG is Red Hat while canacle contributes nothing.
Red Hat as engineers who are dedicated to the one laptop per child project while canacle contributes nothing.
Canacle is a partner with Winero which brings Linux to the ARM processor.
They have engineers that are dedicated to this project while Red Hat has zero participation in this project.
Who has open sourced more proprietary code?
Red Hat purchased these closed source companies then released their products as open source, Sistinas and Tire Product Line.
Netscape Directory Server, Netscape Certificate System which they open sourced and released as Dog Tag Certificate System,
Exidel's entire product line, Metamatrix's entire product line and ECOS.
Not only did they open sourced this project but they also donated all of the patents from ECOS to the FSF.
I could find no closed source companies purchased by canacle then open sourced.
Is canacle a profitable company? That may be why they haven't done that.
We'll get into profitability and business models in a minute.
Open source projects created and maintained by Red Hat.
We have Plimit, Pango, U-Disk, U-Power, VTE, Cairo, G-Comp, Polym, Sest, I have no idea if I said that right.
Debus, Events, Network Manager, Vino, Dogtail, KVM, EXT3, NPTL.
And this list is incomplete. I found many more but could not confirm 100% that they were created by Red Hat.
These projects may have not been initiated by Red Hat but Red Hat provides developers and web,
FTP and other internet hosting services for these projects.
AutoComp, Automate, Benutils, BZIP2, CGen, SIGWIN, Dockbook Tools,
LX, GCC, GDB, Glib-C, GNATS, GSL, GAILE, Insight, Project Lib, etc.
Now by canacle, we have Bazaar, Storm, Upstart, Quickly, Eubiquity,
Uncomplicated Firewall, Unity, Update Manager, U-Splash, Wubby,
X-Splash. This list comprises everything that I could find on this subject.
Red Hat is clearly the leader here, not only in what they give back but as a sustainable business venture.
Their business model obviously works with over 1 billion in sales last year.
Where would canacle be without Mark Shullower's subsidies?
I believe that Joss Portlevite, OpenSUSA's community manager, sums it up best in his comment on an article at Muck2Ware,
which there will be a link in my rant on my...
OpenSUSA community manager.
Now, how can OpenSUSA get inserted into a comparison of Red Hat and how profitable is OpenSUSA?
Well, the SUSA is profitable and OpenSUSA is a community addition.
And it's because SUSA also employs developers who work on these things.
And he says, you can't build an enterprise product based on projects you don't participate in.
That is why Red Hat and SUSA contribute to the kernel, Samba, GCC, GlibC, Apache, PostGrey, etc.
They ship it to their enterprise customers and they can only do that if they have top engineers from those companies on their payroll to fix the issues their customers run into.
But if the company is successful, the company can no longer hire those people, hence their support is useless to actual enterprises.
That's my opinion. What do you think?
And again, the one thing is, also for our audience, if you disagree with me, let us know.
But in some ways, I think you're doing an apples to oranges comparison because you're talking about a company that has publicly traded, that has had,
as you indicated correctly so over $1 billion in sales whose stock is probably upwards of $60 a share
and who has got two feet firmly planted in the server business selling to big corporations.
So you've got them and then you've got a company over here who's a primary, at least initially, their focus was on the desktop
and the thousands and thousands of CDs that got sent out for free to people you could get.
I can remember requesting 20 CDs that came to me in these great little cardboard folders that would get distributed out to people for desktops.
Now Ubuntu is getting into the server business or has been in it now for a few years.
For the last several years they've been really pushing into the server business
because I think they recognize that in order to make money and be a viable business concern, that's really where your money is.
It's not what the desktop uses but you have to admit that looking at Red Hat and then looking at canonical slash Ubuntu,
which company has done more to get Ubuntu Linux operating system out there into the mainstream.
I say it's Ubuntu and I offer this as my example.
I like to trade equities and futures and these kinds of things.
The trading platform I use at least for a long time was Thinkorswim.
Now Thinkorswim was acquired by Katie Ameritrade but what was beautiful about Thinkorswim is not only did they have a windows version,
they also had a Mac version and they had a new Ubuntu version.
I never saw Red Hat version.
Well that's because it was a dev but you could use an alien to install it.
As long as they had a Linux version.
But my point, you're definitely entitled to your opinion and I think the reason why Red Hat has so many projects,
some of those projects, now I've heard of Debus, I've heard of a couple of others,
but some of those others may have been released because there was just simply no money to be made from them.
And so what may have appeared is some gracious egalitarian act was really nothing more, you know, again,
and I'm seeing this without having benefit of really gone in and studied exactly what those programs are project to do.
So I may be incorrect here and I'll readily admit it.
But I guess my point is is that we can slap some stuff up up here and but the devil is really in the details.
And I'm just going to say you're right, it is in the details.
And Red Hat does stuff that builds the community whereas the majority of canonicals,
canonicals, open source projects benefit Ubuntu.
But there's spread almost no one else uses them.
They're spreading, they're spreading Linux though.
For the best, there's spread Ubuntu and you are spreading Ubuntu.
Yes, and I think that's very valuable.
Wait, wait, wait.
It wasn't the last release when they've renamed things to Ubuntu.
So you can't say everything's horrible for whenever they started because they've been out for over 10 years.
Right.
But I just, you're right, but I just, I just, what annoys me is that I believe they're,
them to be disingenuous with a lot of their press releases and a lot of their statements in the public.
I believe them to be disingenuous when they, in what way?
They said that we're really, we give back to the, and we don't.
It goes back a couple of weeks when they start, we're shouting from the rooftops how they beat Red Hat.
They surpass Red Hat and server installation.
Yeah, but who was it?
That was Mark Shuttleworth.
Well, Mark Shuttleworth is canonical.
Come on.
Well, you know the other thing that we need to look at is take,
go back when, how long has Connacle been in the server, the enterprise server business?
Two years.
Two years.
Yeah, two years.
How long has it been?
How long has it been?
Because I have an Ubuntu server book.
10, 15, 20.
Ubuntu server book and I have read it.
Okay.
Yeah, but if we go back, well, that book was put out, I think I've had that book for four years.
Yeah, well, they've had server for a long time.
But whenever they got in certified and, and come into the enterprise, two years.
So let's go back to when Red Hat has been in this, the enterprise server business for 15 years.
No, but we go back to two years.
And in 2002, how much have they done at that point compared to where Connacle is now?
Yeah.
I think you're doing an outcast oranges.
You may be right, but it's your opinion.
It's my opinion and it's not going to change.
But again, I say that Ubuntu, there is no one who's done more to get Linux out on user desktops
than Ubuntu.
They've done a lot to get Ubuntu out there.
That's right.
And they need, they need to get credit for that, Matt.
It's also the more the credit for getting Ubuntu out.
They got Ubuntu out.
And if you weren't making money yet, you would be doing, I mean,
it would be hard for us to, but, but, but they're business model.
And if you look, and I only use this one little quote from Joss, the,
the open system community guy, he points out another thing in his, in his,
in his reply on that, on that muckware article about, yes, if,
if a canacle folded up today, would any of those projects survive?
And the answer is probably no.
None of those open source projects would probably survive if canacle folded up today.
Whereas if Red Hat folded up today, all that stuff would still survive.
Because everybody uses it.
It's not just canacle stuff.
I mean, it's not just Red Hat stuff.
So there's a, there's a huge difference.
And it's not, it's, it's a lot of its philosophy.
You know, also Ubuntu gives back to Debian.
And you know, they do a lot of upstream pushback.
Well, if you, if you followed Debian.
I know the Debian people aren't really necessarily happy with that.
Because the stuff they push back upstream isn't really the benefit Debian.
It's the benefit of Ubuntu.
And a lot of times the Debian guys just don't like it.
They don't, they don't make it, they can't work.
They can choose what they want.
Right.
But they, they give it back.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
Because yeah, I'm not saying they don't do that.
They push tons of stuff back upstream to Debian.
And then Debian just doesn't use it because it's really Ubuntu driven not Debian driven.
So I guess we're going to have to agree to disagree.
We have to agree to disagree.
And we would like to have your feedback and let us know which side you're on.
And, and it should be known that of the three laptops.
Well, actually, I do have that Android sitting off to the side.
But of the three laptops that are sitting here right now,
one is running Kubuntu, one is running Ubuntu.
And one is running in Ubuntu derivative currently.
Yes, currently.
Currently run mint.
But I really believe that by the time we broadcast next week,
it will be soulless.
So.
Or it's not straight Debian again.
All right.
Well, with that over.
I wanted to play a one.
With that God awful mess finally done with.
I wanted to play a boxing round thing.
And I unfortunately didn't didn't have that up and going.
So anyway, we've got a little bit of outro music.
Continuing with the punkish type music,
we have a song called multi-punk by...
How do you say his name?
Billio.
Billio.
I said it.
I said it.
Billio.
Or Billio.
Billio.
It's Billio.
And it's stanker food.
Stanker food which is probably not his actual name.
Right.
He's a French guy.
But here we go.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
Multi-punk.
The Sunday Morning Linux Review, episode 26 for April 8th.
This is Tony Beamous.
Matt Enders.
And Mary Tomuch.
Have a good week.
See you next week.
Yeah.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
Those are.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener by yourself.
If you ever considered recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it
is to use.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the International Computer
Club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are crowd-sponsored
by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunar pages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released on your creative comments, attribution, share
it.
It does our license.
