Episode: 499
Title: HPR0499: TiT Radio Ep 15
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0499/hpr0499.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 21:54:14

---

Hey!
Hello and welcome to Tit Radio episode 15. I must be and at the round table tonight is
Asmeth.
Ah, good evening.
330.
Good evening.
G-Man.
Hello.
Klaatu.
Hey everyone.
And Peter 64.
Tonight.
Do we get any feedback tonight?
I got some feedback actually.
Why do they always send it to you?
I don't know.
Really?
Really?
Because you're more approachable and nice.
I'm not nice.
You're talking about it.
Hard core.
People are afraid of me.
I was just from deep geek and I really have no idea what he was talking about.
Did he ever talk about...
Too deep for you, was it?
No.
I have no idea what he was referring to.
Did he ever talk about something like email, madlib, email, email, madlib?
Does that ring about?
He says it was a great idea and when we're all brilliant for it.
Sure.
Yeah, we did.
Of course we did.
Of course we did.
I said it.
Oh, okay.
He liked it.
Awesome.
Did he say what it was about just to refresh him on?
No.
He was just going on and on about something and I really had no idea what he was talking about.
But there you go.
That's the feedback.
Do you have that other one?
That deep geek sentence?
It was like three or four weeks ago and I don't have it handy.
Actually, yeah, I probably do but he kind of spams me a lot so I can't find it in all the deep geek like this.
I'm trying to think what it was.
But it was good.
And deep geek, thank you.
You're our only listener and we appreciate it.
I know and now we've alienated him.
He's like, if they don't even understand my emails, what am I doing?
I just don't have it handy or I would read it.
I'm trying to get there but I'm not finding it fast enough.
It's not.
He emails me a lot of cool things but so does everyone else.
So I'm like lost in my own inbox, not his fault.
Well, actually he got the email address.
He was sent wrong.
He was sending that to one of them other shows.
Yeah.
That's probably what it is.
One of those I won't name.
I'm not going to name it.
What's the bad apples?
Oh yeah, by the way.
Did you even still around?
Yeah.
Did you see his website?
Brand new.
I take like two weeks off and you're like, is the bad apple still around?
Yeah.
It's so easy to forget, huh?
I know.
It's like, you're right.
And I did tell everyone.
I was like, okay, this is the end of the season.
So, in.
Well, now you know how much attention they actually pay.
I know.
That's all right.
Me and my 25 listeners are quite happy alone without 330 actively actually listening to us.
All right.
You remember episode 14?
I mean, that was like a month ago.
But I said I've given you an update on the GNU K-Free PSD.
Yes.
I ran it for about four days on my server.
And I actually ran TIT radio for four days.
And actually, your blog caught you.
The not blog, the secret blog.
Wow.
And for four days, I mean, I had no problems at all.
I even, well, I had to install Apache.
And I didn't have to install my SQL.
But I did just to test out WordPress and Drupal on it.
I mean, I had no problems at all.
I mean, it just, it just worked.
But.
Well, I run Free PSD because it's Free PSD.
I like the port system.
Oh, okay.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Right.
And plus, you know, using the SID three-posts.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's just a little bit, I mean, yeah.
Just way too many updates for a server.
Yeah, yeah.
But I'm definitely going to give it another look once it goes stable.
So just for people totally afraid of it, like me,
what's the process of installing it?
Like, you just go download an ISO and install it just like normal?
Debian?
I mean, it doesn't.
Well, actually, it's the Free PSD installer.
I think it's, I'm drawing a blank now.
System install.
Oh, yeah, okay.
It just uses the standard.
And like I said last time, you know, it's just a Free PSD installer.
And right now, there's a few things missing.
But I think once it goes stable, it's going to be pretty good.
I mean, I think it's going to be go stable when squeeze goes stable.
And April or May?
Well, now that you mentioned the fact that, you know,
that it doesn't have the port system, which I guess was obvious.
But I didn't really think of it this way.
But what would be on, what, what are they pitching as the advantage to this anything?
Or it's just something different?
It's, it's something different.
But I think in the future, they want to add ZFS support.
Oh, right.
Okay.
And, uh, and add the jails.
Right.
Okay.
I think that would be really the main reason to use it, I guess.
Yeah.
It's really not very much documentation on it yet.
Yeah, yeah.
Of course.
But we also talked about, I think you mentioned, if I ever installed open BSD.
Yeah.
I still haven't, but I just want to let everybody know.
And if you go to that BSD magazine site, it's BSD mag.org.
The BSD security and open BSD magazine is a free download.
I just found out about that a couple of days ago.
And it's, it's a pretty nice magazine.
It goes over on how to install open BSD.
And there's a few other nice things in that magazine.
It's a good quality magazine.
And the PDF is really nice.
I just got the paper edition of the BSD magazine this past month.
And it had the free BSD release candidate one bundled with it.
And that's actually what I used to ultimately install it on that Toshiba laptop
that I've got free BSD.
And are you using the free BSD?
No, I screwed up the install.
And then I got to working on another project and needed a test machine.
So I wiped that off.
So right now it's sitting right next to my main computer,
running Slackware again.
But right after I'm finished testing, I'm going to go back and put that BSD,
the free BSD eight on it again.
And this time do the installation correctly.
Yeah, I actually installed it on the desktop.
Put KDE on it and all that.
I installed everything from the port system.
And I'll never do that again.
Really?
Yeah, I think if I was going to run free BSD on a desktop,
I would go out with the binaries instead of the source code.
Really?
No, I did what you just said.
I did on the laptop and I loved it.
I was like, it was smooth going.
I like installed X and KDE from the ports.
And it worked like a charm.
The only thing I couldn't get working was the networking.
Because I skipped that step in the install.
So my bad.
Yeah.
Did you put KDE?
Did you say you put KDE on it?
Yeah, I had it up and running.
I was in KDE, loving it for like a day.
Okay.
Because it took me forever to install it.
Really?
Yeah, just.
But I thought, what kind of chip you have on your desktop?
It's a dual core of F1.
Yeah.
Are you sure you did it from source from the port system?
Or did you use package add?
No, I did it from port.
I did the make and make whatever it is port, make and then make clean install.
Or make install clean.
And if it's on an F1 chip laptop, yeah, totally works really well.
Yeah.
Reminded me totally like a gen 2 install.
Really?
Yeah.
Because it compiled everything.
It took 20 hours to get a complete working desktop.
Okay.
Well, either I did something different than what I think I did or they didn't take nearly 20 hours.
I mean, it took a little while, but not terribly long.
I was pretty pleased with the feed of it if I recall correctly.
I don't know.
I'll take better notes next time I install it correctly and maybe give an update on it like you're doing now.
I replaced that K3BSD on the server with freeBSD8.
And I'm doing everything from the port system with that.
But there's nothing huge is going to take a long time.
Right.
Like KDE did.
Yeah.
Well, we better get into some Linux stuff to keep it equal.
Right.
I forgot to ask anybody if they had topics tonight.
I guess we'll have to assume that everyone does.
Well, you know what?
Let's go Peter 64 first.
Be company.
Stop and buy.
Quite a few years ago.
Yeah, my brother more actually is one of the ones who may be stubborn boy later.
He gave me a dime camera that he got hold of like a number way.
And I put that up in the cupboard and forgot about it for probably 12 months or more.
Then one day I found it up there and I thought I wonder what I could do with this.
And after scaring you know that I came across Zane Minder.
Now, I've sort of mentioned that before because I've had it running on the MISBOX since the MISBOX is on all the time.
With Zane Minder what that is, it really is a total surveillance and security solution.
It has beautiful web interface.
You can have, I think it's almost unlimited to many cameras.
You can hook up to it.
It supports cameras that have to pan till the zoom.
All that sort of stuff.
You can access it from anywhere in the world.
You know, through the web interface and check out.
It does recordings.
You can watch the live video feed.
All this sort of stuff.
And I had that running for help while I was using my MISBOX.
Then when I did the MISBOX the other day with Arch, I went to install Zane Minder again.
I thought it's probably a little too fully featured really for what I want.
Now, if I had a business then it would definitely be the way to go if you do.
Because it also ties in with the X10.
Stuff which I talked about on an earlier tip where one of your cameras can pick up some sort of motion.
And then you can use that to initiate maybe turning your exterior lights on or something like that.
I mean, it's fully integrated this whole system.
And actually you can get it.
I just found out live on an Arch dish.
You can get an Arch live CD.
You don't have to set all this up.
And the other beautiful thing about Zane Minder was you could allocate regions for particular cameras.
And what I mean by that was say if you've got a surveillance camera set up and up in a say top left hand corner
that you might have a road just in the picture.
Well, rather than trigger the recording every time a car went past, you could block that particular section out of the frame.
And say, OK, I don't want any motion detected there.
You could also highlight areas which and give them an increased sort of awareness of OK.
If the little thing happens over in this corner, I want it to immediately start recording things like that.
But once again, probably a little bit too heavy for what I originally, well what I know, I don't really need anything.
So what I did decided to start looking at other things.
One of the other ones I come across with Q motion, it really is, it will take pictures and upload them to an FTP server.
But you can't access the live camera from the web and all that sort of stuff.
So it's good to agree with something to mark around with but didn't give me the features that I wanted.
And that really is so I can access the cameras from anywhere from the internet.
And it also would record.
So these are continuous motion cameras, correct?
Or these are taking snapshots or both?
Well, you can set them up with the video cameras.
But you could set them up with Zone Monde.
You could say OK, continually monitor a particular area where it will just record.
Then you could say OK, I just want you to record purely when there's motion.
And then set up the criteria you wanted for it to record.
How many pixels in a frame have to change before it considers its motion?
So if you had patch, you can say OK, only X amount of pixels is the cat.
I don't want it to record then but a person.
The Zone Monde is just so scalable and you could virtually do anything.
You could think of you can do with Zone Monde.
It is so fully featured, right?
You could just use a USB camera.
You know your webcam, if you want to mark around with them.
And all three of these that I talked about, anyone who's got a web camera can get this up.
Because all three of them will utilize a web camera.
But Zone Monde goes to IP cameras, it goes to USB cameras, it goes to any video camera.
Virtually any video for a Linux device also.
And yeah.
So what I wanted was something in between QMotion and Zone Monde.
And what I found was a program called Motion, which it's all command line based.
But it's very easy to configure.
It's all done through one configuration file.
And it's a happy medium between Zone Monde and QMotion.
In that it'll do your make videos.
You can also bank out spots in a frame that you might want.
Once again you might have that road in a picture that you don't want it to record.
So you can blank that out.
And it was, it's really, it took about five minutes to set it up.
The other thing too, it comes with its own web server.
With Zone Monde you had to set up Apache and MySQL.
With Motion, it's got its own little built-in web server so you can access and look, you know, get your camera live on the web.
What I didn't, what I had to do with that because I wanted to also access the file that it creates, the movies.
So I just set up Apache and have it store the directory in my Apache.
So I have the file store to my Apache directory.
So I can access that now from, you know, if I take a trip up to Timbroke and have a quick look at it.
Another good thing it did was you can have it set up to do what's it called stop-motion video.
So you might just get it to take one frame every three seconds.
Now you might say what's the good of that, but you can have a lot of fun with that because you could put it on like save me my daughter.
We set one up on the tomato plants out the front in the garden and it's taken one frame every three minutes.
And over the course of a month we'll have a stop motion picture of our tomatoes growing, which she's going to love, you know, but just things like that.
And it's just called motion that.
Yeah, I'll put the link in.
Yeah, that one's just called motion.
Yeah, I'll put the link in the IRC.
But like I said, it feels that niche just nicely for a home enthusiast who wants to muck around with this stuff.
As compared to some of which is, you know, it's a fully-born security solution.
And I must admit, I probably gave back to Zane Minder because it was more to play with.
With motion also, you can, I could still tie it in to my X10HU stuff because you can give it to trigger scripts.
If it picks up motion through one of your cameras, you can then trigger a script and I might just trigger a script for how you to turn on all the interior lights.
But if you didn't have how you could make your computer play dog barking, you know, and just do stuff like that with it too.
It's only tiny little download.
But like I said, have a look at that cue motion too.
It was, it was just a bit basic for my needs, but certainly you could have a lot of fun.
Set it up in the room and hide the camera when you're courting your wife or girlfriend.
There you go.
Great idea.
But no, it's definitely handy when you do travel your way from your house.
It's nice to be able to fire up your webcam and just have a look at your entry and make sure the telly and that's still there.
I feel that little bit better.
Or to make sure you didn't leave it on.
That's what I always do.
I'm like, did you turn the TV off?
Yeah, well if you shut this up and hate you, you can turn it on and off.
And make people think, you know, you're at home.
I think it'd be really cool to use that on a webcam.
That'd be pretty.
I mean, like just on the computer because that's the only kind of camera that I think I would have that would be controlled by this.
That could be cool.
You might own cameras on eBay for, I think, $20 or $30.
Now you don't need anything really expensive.
A lot of them too these days are the infrared ones.
Well, they're all infrared.
It's just the filter.
You know, these obviously don't have the little filter.
They pull it out.
Now the thing too, it's funny.
Like, it wants to be, you know, when we first started talking.
And the webcam picked up the kangaroos.
And he could sit and watch the kangaroos feeding on our front lawn.
It's interesting.
A lot of people haven't seen them before.
Yeah, that was pretty cool.
And it was nice and smooth.
Yeah, I don't think it really.
I think originally I had it just for $3.20 by $2.40.
So, you know, it doesn't use a lot of bandwidth.
And I think I was only using about 10 frames a second,
which is planning for the amount of bandwidth I had to spare.
Okay.
But oh, that's configurable in both my shenanigans and moinda.
Pretty cool stuff, Peter.
Yeah, a good fun to play around with.
Anything else?
Any questions for Peter?
Nope.
We'll move on to it, Azmouth.
Okay, I'm sorry.
I was reading Tim Ritz' problem on the IRC.
He's lost.
No, I got to plan with a little distro that I found it.
It's not that new.
It's been around a while.
But it's called INX.
And it's a recursive acronym for IsNotX.
It's basically a command line distro.
Probably the neatest part of it is that it has quite extensive tutorial in it.
You know, it's all encurses on the tutorials.
And it's got quite a bit of stuff that it'll do on its own,
just from what's in the menus.
It's definitely worth playing with.
Basically, for somebody who is not comfortable with the command line,
it gives you a chance to get in and poke around.
And it is a live CD.
So you're not going to break anything that's going to stay broke.
You might accidentally learn something.
That's pretty cool.
How big is the download, did you say?
It's 180 megabytes is all.
Most have got a virtual box image that I pulled in and had a play with when I had mentioned it.
It was nice.
But it's something that I'm going to get Stella to start having a play with.
I can see where it would be a very good teaching tool.
I've got a six-year-old here that's about to find
that his Linux games aren't going to be there anymore.
It's just going to have I and X in it.
Well, this thing has got the screen in it,
and it's got ARPV in it.
It's got a couple of text browsers in it.
And links you to the graphical.
And I was pretty impressed with that.
I mean, it's probably cheating if you say you're not going to use X,
and then you use a sort of GUI-based browser.
I think links is on there too, isn't it?
But that's a bit...
Well, you're not loading X up.
You're doing it completely without X,
which I find is comfortable with.
Some of the real old stuff I've got around here that I don't have problems with,
except with every time the update X worked.
You know, if I quit using X or GUI,
we really won't matter what they do with it.
Well, I can see plenty of this thing a little bit more
and maybe going back to a command line interface.
There's so many of the encurses that I really hadn't seen before
and seeing how well they work.
It kind of reminds me way back when on DOS and on basic machines.
If you had a really old machine, this would be just our deal.
Take it and install it,
because it's all configured just to be everything you want to use, isn't it?
Yeah, it also has a wireless utility in it
that you can go through and set up your wireless,
which it took me a while to find that.
It's on one of the menus.
It's not done just pop up at the top and happen like you get with most distros
when you put them on.
The whole thing is based on, well,
it's got a simple hearty install, you know,
just the base Ubuntu to start with.
And without X or anything else,
you can do a minimum install of hearty and duplicate this.
But, in fact, they do have the scripts available that, you know,
if you did want to install this program,
well, that's how you would do it.
You would do a minimum install of Ubuntu
and use your scripts to pull all the other stuff into it.
Because out of the box there's, I don't recall,
but it didn't have anything like emplies,
so you could watch video in a frame buffer, did it?
I never found that.
No, I don't think it's a problem.
It does do radio stations, though.
Of course, they're all Australian.
That's where this came from, so.
Oh, it's Australian.
They all have that funny accent.
Yeah.
Yeah, there's...
I'm not that interested anymore.
Well, so much for cultural diversity, for quite, too.
I am curious as to why their site is a series of PNGs
rather than techs.
Isn't it kind of weird?
Well, I suppose here it's all Screenshot.
I suppose it was just...
Yeah.
That's the easiest way they could do it.
It was just take Ubuntu Screenshot,
so they'd actually run it.
Yeah, that's a bit unfortunate.
Isn't it really?
I mean, I would wonder...
It goes against the grain of what they're trying to promote.
Yeah.
Maybe that's why they include that link, too.
Otherwise, you wouldn't be able to look at their bloody website.
I think that might be it,
because their site is useless on links,
because it's normal links,
but one that I've got in my system,
whatever, I guess, links one.
It's really bizarre.
Aside from that, yeah, it sounds like a cool distra.
Yeah, well, it's just...
It's just a live CD.
Just plug it in and play with it,
and you get tired of it.
Take it out and boot back up
where you want to be.
Yeah.
You'll find yourself putting more hours in it
than you suspect at first.
They have quite a few menus you go through,
and they...
Well, they even have the tutorials,
you know, I'll go through and teach you about some
of the simpler CLI commands,
and they teach you someone,
like a new screen,
and some of a RISC,
and some of the programs
that you would normally use from a command line.
When you're seeing you go through menus,
what are you actually doing?
Is it just like an ink bag?
Well, it has ink curses menus in it.
Yeah.
It'll pop down,
and I give you a choice.
You hit a key to go to...
Maybe another menu, you know,
or it has one that I like.
It says,
just get the heck out of the way.
I know what I'm doing.
No, I like that option.
That just dumps you straight to the command line.
You go do whatever you want.
Okay.
That's cool.
So they're almost making, like,
sort of a new UI.
It's just not with that.
But they've got their own little user interface, sort of.
Well, it's...
Yeah, sort of.
It's just a set of menus that I'll just add in curses.
Oh, it's pretty.
That's a good idea.
Oh, that's interesting.
Oh, and they're using...
No, they're not.
Sorry, no mind.
It's totally reminded me back in the old days
before Windows was even out when you run, like,
DOS 4 or 5,
and you could get programs
where you went through and set up your own little menus
so you didn't have to keep going.
Yeah.
Well, you know, I've got back calls.
I've built hundreds of bat files, you know,
that do this basically the same thing
that they do with the menus in this.
Yeah, that's right.
That's what it was like.
You know, it was kind of deja vu.
But I forgot how much fun it was.
Just running programs like that.
Well, I think we forget,
before the pretty stuff we get these days
that basically it's all there to do one job
and it can be quite easily accomplished by type
and something on the command line
we've had all the pretty buttons and icons to click on,
which typically waste time.
Well, it's amazing how fast an older, you know,
pinning them to a computer
will run with something like this on it.
I mean, you forget that you don't have the latest
and greatest hardware behind you
because it just goes through it.
Bang, bang, bang.
You said you had quad-core rate at all, right?
You did not.
How was that?
I think you had quad-core rate at all, right?
I'm trying to remember.
I don't think I ever put it on the quad-core.
You don't even have to think about it,
even a menu to be open.
Well, that quad-core is spoiling me.
I mean, you know, it's been a long time since I had
anything close to modern around here.
No wonder Firefox runs so fast.
Oh, I didn't know that.
Well, I was speaking mostly, say my netbook,
Firefox, it causes no problems there either.
All right, very nice fine-ass.
Let's move on to 3.30.
All right.
Well, what I've got here
initially won't sound tech-related,
but if you hang in there, I will get to the tech.
My brother when he was in Japan.
It doesn't sound tech-related.
Hold on.
He was there for a launch of a clothing store,
which, once again, doesn't sound tech-related.
But this company, when he got back and started looking him up,
he found that they have this special
thermal clothing called heat tech.
And I posted a link to the UK store.
They have an American store,
but it's plastered with flash.
But what it does is there's water vapor inside the fabric.
And what this does is it somehow with the friction of your body
heats the actual fabric up,
so that as you are like walking around and stuff,
the actual clothing gets warm.
And then they have something in it
that it wicks away the moisture
and deodorizes at the same time.
And it never have to wash it or take it back.
Well, you probably should wash it.
I mean, it can only...
It's an antibacterial agent.
So, you know, it minimizes odor,
but it doesn't get rid of it, like, you know, totally.
But it's really weird.
And when you feel it,
kind of...
Yo, when something is almost dry,
like you pull something out of the washer a little too early,
it kind of feels like that,
maybe a step dryer,
but if you, like, pour liquid on it,
it doesn't soak all the way through.
It's kind of already saturated.
I know I'm not explaining this very well,
and there will be a link,
and you can see their explanation of it,
but it's wild.
I've been wearing it all day,
and I'm actually sitting in the something
kind of takey studio,
sweating my...
Well, sweating everything off.
And my legs, where these pants are, are totally dry.
Are you wearing one of the woman's tops or the...
Boke's tops?
Well, I've got the...
I've got the...
the underwear, the pants.
What color did you get?
I say it comes in a variety of colors here.
Mine are...
It looks almost blood red.
Do we have a pick?
Actually, by the time this airs,
I can get you guys a pick.
My girlfriend took one earlier,
because she was laughing.
So I had them on with shorts.
A cat white.
Now, would I be able to put that into the show notes?
The picks?
Sure. Why not?
I just want to ask permission first.
Now, you say this...
It feels wet all the time?
No, it doesn't...
It ever pulls something out,
like, 10 minutes before it really was as dry as you wanted it,
and you're like,
and it'll dry out.
It's kind of like that.
Like, it feels saturated.
Not exactly wet,
but just saturated.
It feels like a witsuit.
No, no, it's like...
You probably don't have this enough sterile.
Yeah, I just realized it.
It's a kind of knit.
I mean, it's for staying warm,
not necessarily dry.
It just...
the Japanese somehow found a way to make it stay dry.
I'm trying to find a seat from friction or something,
so if you're sitting below...
Yeah, because it doesn't hit...
Well, it doesn't hit.
So, it's like a microwave oven.
It vibrates the water molecules.
Yeah, really.
Yeah.
It incinerates to 186,000 times a second.
That's...
You'll cook yourself a thing,
because it's tight around your legs and stuff.
So, any little movement gets your skin shifting,
and it doesn't take much.
I mean, they're toasty now,
and I was just rubbing my leg because part of it itched.
And I was like, oh, God, it's real hard right there.
Are you sure this is safe?
No, it just feels like you're gonna boil your blood or something.
Get out of those pants.
Yeah, to tell you the truth,
if it's unsafe,
it is the coolest unsafe thing I've ever done.
Like...
That's it, huh?
That's the coolest unsafe thing you've ever done.
No, why it's when we see this pic,
he's gonna have like open sores all over.
Yeah, there's nothing.
Yeah, it stays in this company you have yet, 30?
No, I don't.
Okay.
Get the same effect,
just dip your jockey shorts and sorb being junior.
Just the guy said it's kind of cooking ads,
and you might be able to have a keats.
Yeah, the thing is,
it's actually keeping my nads for lack of better term,
extremely dry.
And I'm pumped by that.
Well, that was boring for me.
It is hotter than I made it.
It is hotter than hell in this room.
That's amazing.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm gonna put a bunch of clothes on
for like a really cold winter,
and then you get walking around and you're like,
damn it, I'm hot.
That's why you had all the animals to lick them dry.
I'm confused.
I thought this was a shirt.
No, it was the pants.
You can get shirts that are like this,
but I have the pants.
Amazing.
It doesn't sound very techy until you start thinking about
what these weird Japanese men were doing
that required super absorbent heat creating
thermal underwear.
I still don't believe this.
Yeah, it somehow sounds a little bit like a marketing thing,
you know, like they just kind of are telling you
that it will keep you really warm,
and you're kind of making yourself believe that you're no warmer
because you're sitting in a room with like the radiator on.
I think it's like go-to meeting where they say it works,
but it probably doesn't.
I've never tried go-to meeting so.
I have no idea if it works or not.
Hey, wasn't Peter going to go try go-to meeting?
After his little episode was audible.
Wasn't go-to meeting next?
Oh, yeah, probably.
And if anybody's wondering what we're talking about,
listen, the last Lennox cranks,
that's one hell of a rant.
All right, 330.
Have anything techy for us or is that it?
No, that was it.
I haven't done anything all week.
But which part was the technical part?
Just the fact that you mentioned the word molecules?
Well, I'm sure there's all kinds of freaky science
going on inside of these things.
Okay, so it's just more and Japanese.
Oh, yeah.
That makes it technical, okay.
Well, I just want to clarify the qualification.
Well, I'm looking at the website,
and they show like a close-up of the fabric.
And I guarantee if I took a close-up of my,
the shirt I'm wearing now,
it would have like some kind of weird texture too,
close-up and a microphone.
Yeah, really.
I don't know, 330.
I think it's the skyline.
Yeah.
I don't have one.
So I don't know if that's the case.
Let's say I would offer to send them around everybody
and let them try them on.
But I don't think people want to do that.
The tech radio communal underwear.
That would get the blogosphere talking again,
and we don't want that.
How many pairs do you have?
Not after the last time.
Just one.
Now I'm not going to mention prices or anything,
so it doesn't turn into an ad.
Too late for that.
Yeah, how much are they?
We all want that.
Well, 16 bucks.
I forget it.
16 bucks for all that technology?
What a bargain.
I'm looking at men's knitwear for 50 pounds.
The turtle neck?
No, I don't do turtle neck.
Sorry.
It also says that the food eat tech quickly as orbs
and defuses moisture,
and it says men only.
Two.
Yeah.
There's another thing in here where it says women only,
and I'm like, I think it was the comforter,
something like that.
No, the soft texture.
It has natural amino acids from milk protein.
Maybe where all the technology is.
I think they gave all the tech to the women.
You know what?
Screw these guys.
Except for their moisture control.
It is insane.
I don't even want to know why.
330 moisture control.
I think we have our title.
I knew I should have just looked for a damn story.
Yeah, there was a new turtle revision last week
that no one's running.
Oh look, a gnom something.
Last time I'm truthful with you guys.
It must work.
There's been 20 million units sold already in Japan.
What's the requirement?
I don't understand where in the hell they're selling this in Japan,
because my brother was there in September,
and it was 85 degrees with 95% humidity and raining.
Well, you get up on the northern end and they need it.
They get 20 and 30 below up there.
I had a friend live in Japan for a few years,
and he was up in that area.
I don't remember what it is, but it's just across the water there
from Siberia.
Yeah, I haven't really upset with their...
I guess I can make this technical.
Their US site is horrible.
There are one, two, three, four flash images
or flash things on the front page,
and it's just terrible.
It's like someone with ADD just took a bunch of web page pieces
and just threw them at the screen and went,
here we go a website,
and there are some people that look like they need to eat.
I think it says a lot about this country.
Look, I'm digging for a tech angle, guys.
I'm sorry.
Hey, those things are not that expensive.
Anybody been able to buy one or close?
No, I don't buy it.
Well, let me give you a clue.
Those are not that expensive.
We can't buy bloody t-shirt for less than 20 bucks.
Yeah, but that's Japanese, or that's Australian money.
A bloody the same as your money.
You just like to thank people with trends very much.
Hey, yeah, but you guys are paying import duties that we don't get.
From Japan, I'd just say it's probably cheaper,
since it's only up to the road there.
All the prices I hear you quoted are generally about 30 percent
more than they are here if they're not more.
Yeah, I would say that's got more to do with how many people are here.
Okay, I'm going to have to break you two up.
We don't need any fighting shows.
Let's move on to J-Man.
Yeah, I don't know if we talked about this or not,
but Clear OS has released one of their release candidates for the new version.
And it's basically a network attached storage distribution.
Maybe you've tried Free Nads or something, and it didn't work out.
This came out of a distribution called Clark Connect,
and it was a firewall distro.
But they added all this storage stuff onto it.
You have mail filters, and you can serve your email,
and you have DHCP, and it does firewalling and all that.
But maybe if you're replacing a Windows small business server or something,
this would be a good thing to look at.
That's cool.
So this is basically just sort of a server distro
with all the usual server kinds of things included.
Is that what this is?
Sort of like SLAMP, except Clear OS.
Right, it's all done through a web interface.
Oh, yeah.
No, we didn't mention this before.
Yeah, I remember this.
Okay.
Yeah, it's a pretty intuitive interface.
There's a demo on their website that you can do before you bother downloading it.
So, should we use me as the test?
Remember what happened last time I set up a server?
Why don't you monitor?
Jay Lindsay would remember.
I think he and I had four hours of discussion in private messages.
Him going to read the damn manual.
I did.
They didn't use words.
It was scary.
Yeah, well, this is a lot easier than sending it all up by hand.
I mean, all the stuff is pretty much there.
You just go through the web interface and start clicking options.
Yeah, it looks pretty nice.
I mean, from the screen shots and everything.
I mean, in terms of like the web interface.
Yeah, you set it up as a gateway.
It seems to do practically everything.
This looks, I mean, frankly, this looks a lot more intuitive than, like, say, OS 10 server.
And they're all about the GUI set up in OS 10 server.
This is making a lot more sense.
Yeah, it's pretty impressive what all they put in here.
Yeah.
It even does intrusion detection.
Most things don't even do that.
And so, the whole Clark connector, whatever, was that just the former name?
Or should I, is that saying this or something?
No, that distro has been around for eight years now.
Oh, okay.
So they just kind of like rebranded or whatever?
Yeah, they're based off of the sent-offs now.
Oh, okay, okay.
That's really cool.
Is there any way to just to get this interface without getting the whole entire distro?
I wouldn't think so.
I think it's pretty tied to the distribution itself.
That's a very professional website, that's for sure.
Very corporate.
Yeah, I know.
Yeah, I know.
That's what I'm trying to comprehend.
Well, they actually sell hardware that they put this on.
Okay.
That looks like a nice place to work.
I hope that they have left like free coffee in the break room and stuff.
That they do.
Yeah, it looks like they got a budget for that.
I'm going to apply this place.
Just don't tell them about TIT radio.
No, I don't want to have a little secret.
Very nice, J-Man.
And they were on December 8th.
It looks like Clear Foundation, the nonprofit organization dedicated to the proliferation of Clear OS,
was named a finalist in the best security software development solution category.
And some kind of award thing.
I guess it must have.
Who's doing ads now, G?
Yeah, really.
Stop sucking the T.
G?
I was just trying to figure out why people would look at this.
And I guess between the interface and I guess they're security focused or whatever.
I don't know.
I'm just making it very clear that servers still completely mystify me.
I don't know.
I'm going to try to clear an OS out though on my server.
That doesn't do anything yet.
No, this comes out of New Zealand, huh?
That ought to get Peter fired up.
Are you two going to go back in?
A lot of use it for just that reason.
I'm not interested in it anymore.
Good on you, Clyde, there.
I'd go read the U on it.
Why?
Something bad now?
You probably got to do something to a shake before you let the user do.
You guys are off.
I'm going to break you up again.
Claude, what do you got for us?
I have a very exciting project that isn't actually out yet per se,
but it's from the people who are doing VLC player video land.
They're coming out with a video editor called VLC as a video land movie creator.
And you can find that at VLC.org.
I have downloaded the source code and cannot get it to compile.
So I can't really review even what they've got going right now.
But it's obviously VLC is of such caliber that I think we can expect that their movie editor is going to be pretty cool.
So I'm really excited to see what they come up with.
I think pretty early stages still.
Yeah, I must admit Claude, too.
I think the process is a cat in life for a while there.
But the last couple of releases, I can't get the bloody thing to start up.
Yeah, Katie, I've does that to me too.
And once I find a working version, I kind of stay with it for a while.
Yeah.
It seems like they're really working on it a lot.
And sometimes it just doesn't like to be worked on.
And I don't know if you have to update that back end, the MLP back end,
or in order, you know, what.
But yeah, updates to that are very, very difficult.
Yeah, even open shot.
And the last art shop date has now packed it into something to do.
Really?
So I haven't tried open shot.
But I mean, VLC will definitely be something I'll try out.
Because I mean, they're obviously the players.
It's just incredible.
So, yeah, I think a movie creator by the same people is going to be really great.
Now, this is from the same people as VLC.
Yes.
This is a VLC project.
Well, cool.
I definitely like their player and have you said for years.
Yeah.
I mean, I used it for years without ever understanding what it was.
I mean, what it is being free software and stuff.
You know, it's just one of those things that's always been there.
And I mean, I think it'll be really cool.
I mean, if this thing ends up being good, which I think it will,
I mean, it'll be cool because that'll be a cross-platform, well, presumably,
a cross-platform movie creator that people can use on all the platforms,
which I think is really important too.
I mean, as if, though, not having a really, really good video editor on Linux isn't enough.
I mean, we don't even have one that we can then take over to OS 10 or Windows
and, like, either use, you know, if we're at work on a different OS or show people, you know,
and do the whole, you know, you try it on your own OS, and I'll try it on Linux thing.
So I think having a cross-platform video editor would be really, really nice.
Well, having a video editor would be really nice too, but cross-platform would even be better.
I mean, for years, I've been, I mean, I've always thought that video land just seemed so good
that what it did, and I was just wondering why it didn't have just, at least,
basic, like, editing functionality.
Like, at least being able to mark in and mark out, like, you know, lift a segment out.
It's kind of like what AVID MUX does.
But, I don't know. I think it's going to be cool.
Yeah, and I don't think the average home user wants something overly technical either.
That's basically all they want to do is go to put in, you know, a fade, add a bit of music,
and the title here, and that's all they really need to do.
And that, and I need to make it overly complicated for it to be successful.
Yeah. Well, plus the development team, the development team of BLC, from what I can tell.
I mean, they've got their head screwed on straight, you know?
I mean, a lot of these little video editors that kind of pop up here and there on Linux.
They seem to have, like, all these grandiose ideas of, oh, let's make an eye-movie for Linux.
And they get, you know, 45% of the way done.
And it kind of, like, gets broken or just never really materializes or whatever.
But I don't know. BLC, I think, they seem to have, kind of, realistic expectations of what they can do.
You know, and they seem to perfect it.
Well, they've got a good track record with their player.
I mean, you know, it's simple and it works.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, we'd just, like, a good mature product that you knew was going to start when you come in to sit down and do something.
Exactly.
And unfortunately, we don't have that.
You know, and I really thought cutting life was it.
But, um...
I mean, I think it will be it eventually.
It will be it eventually.
But they've just, you know, they got to hit some kind of truly stable place, I think.
Which, I mean, it wasn't that long ago that they switched to Q4.
So, I mean, they kind of, they're probably kind of starting from scratch.
And they're really right.
Yeah.
It's going to be a while before they get to a place where they can actually say, okay.
Here's our, you know, long-term, you know, stable version as it were.
Anyway, it's good that there's more options.
Oh, yeah.
I'm looking at the screenshots.
It looks like it's going to be pretty good.
The interface, at least.
Yeah, it looks sort of standard, you know, like you'd expect on just about any of them, which is good.
Yeah, yeah.
The more familiar it is to people, the more likely that they get behind it.
Well, Clot 2, I'm moving you up on the list for...
This is a nice find.
Oh, yeah.
I should give credit where credit was due.
Some anonymous person popped into IRC one day and said,
not Clot 2 will like this, Video Land Media Creator, Movie Creator, and then left.
And before I got to think that person or remember who it was, they were gone.
So I didn't, like, just stumble across this.
Someone totally tipped me off.
Well, you're still up there.
I'm going to have to drop G. Lindsey down one notch.
Well, you can cut this.
This is my route.
If you want, you can, like, make it seem like it was my find.
Yeah.
And if whoever told me about it comes and, you know, hunts me down, yells at me.
I'll split up as well.
I think that may have actually been a little monster.
Yeah, probably.
A little monster.
That monster B is, like, smaller doppelganger.
We probably should watch out for that kid.
Many me.
Yeah.
I never, well, yeah, that's why I did see him the other night.
I mean, uh, in the chat room, very first time.
But you guys said he's been in there for, for months?
No, no, not months.
No.
He's been around.
He's just goofing around.
Yeah, he's been, been around for a while, but just seems to hang in there more often.
Yeah.
We should probably do a background check and see who it is.
I don't trust him.
I don't trust him.
Well, you guys want to move on to our new segment?
You're then do the commands of the week.
Just in case Peter has to take off.
Not definitely a new segment.
I haven't been on the sleep button for this.
Yeah, what's the, what is the new segment?
It's called.
I mentioned it last time.
Oh, well, that's right.
Is it 330 or Gorkhan?
That's right.
All right.
And how do you guys want to play this?
I'm going to play this one.
Oh, I reckon.
And 330 should have to choose who it is.
That's your shit, aren't you?
You want to give it a go, 330?
Sure.
What I'm going to do, I'm going to play a clip.
And there's going to be 11 little clips separated by, it's got a Mario theme, the video game.
It's going to be separated by little Mario sound bites.
So there's going to be 11 answers here.
You have a paper and pencil ready?
We can type it into IRC 330.
Just as I know it.
Yeah, like when the first sound plays, you either hit a 3 or a G.
If you think it's your Gorkhan, how's that?
And then at the end of the 11th, hit in a 5th.
So we know you're not cheating.
Okay.
Okay.
Here we go.
Let's say it was long enough that I actually had to pee and pat and ask for the IP address.
What's because you guys drink too much, man?
Granted, I know that's the point, but you know.
Man, I don't even know if it's that people are drunk anymore.
I just don't think we're that smart.
See, it was a G1 work on Verizon.
So now that we're in hiatus, what do y'all think of V so far?
You're going to make it.
You're really behind it.
I don't know if the IP for the server hits.
Was that tough or what?
It was so easy, it was all Gorkhan.
I thought it was Gorkhan.
I'm pretty sure it was all Gorkhan.
Let me get here.
Anyone I reckon was Gorkhan was definitely had to be the horizon thing,
which was talking about the horizon and the Android.
That had to be Gorkhan.
You know what, 330 got it wrong.
He got it wrong.
I didn't tell by the last two because they were so quick.
Though you got some of the other ones wrong.
You got that one where you said some about the G1 phone.
You said it was Gorkhan, but it was you.
It was unbelievable.
We've been tricked at the 330.
You can't fool me.
I had that.
That's the same person.
I don't know, that was just crazy trying to guess who that was.
Man, that was good.
It doesn't help that the tilt stream sounds so bad.
Come on, that might be excuses.
Let's say we should put Peter up against, I don't know, can we get a Kiwi to call in?
Can we tell the difference?
I think a Kiwi will be good because we said nothing like.
But I can't tell the difference.
But this segment is 330 or Gorkhan.
It's not Peter or Kiwis.
Are you really going to be able to find that many things?
Oh yeah.
Oh my gosh, 330, you never shut up.
We will find...
I'm not going to deny it.
I actually have people sending them to me now.
She does.
So I guess we won.
Every time we stumped 330, we win.
So do we all get wave accounts?
Are you willing?
What one?
I'd join that.
Google Wave would be so much more fun if you had someone to wave to.
I was thinking about saying goodbye to Twitter forever.
Wait, are you saying goodbye to Twitter or to micro-blogging in general?
Well, I'm going to start off with one and just every show just say goodbye to a new one.
Just a new set on that working thing.
Well, actually, Twitter's the only non-free ones that I'm on.
When was the last time you tweeted?
I don't know.
July, August?
That would be easy to figure it out.
It's going to be hard to give up, then.
Because it sounds like you'll hope.
You're an addict.
I probably shouldn't say nothing.
Yeah, I'm just going to say goodbye now to Twitter.
Last tweet by Monster B was November 16th.
Riding you big boy or something, won't it?
Yeah.
And I was just testing out my internet.
Yeah.
I just had to log into Twitter and test it.
He tweeted on the 14th of November, the 31st of October, the 6th of August.
I eat to eat more than a cloth used doppelganger does.
So that's probably 12 times a year I tweet.
Yeah.
Well, after tonight, it's none.
Wow.
All of your followers will be so sad.
All 366 of them.
That will be sad, though.
Maybe I should stay.
I mean, all the ladies following you.
Yeah.
What's up with that?
You're Asian lady followers?
That's right.
I'm going to stay.
I mean, you can't make all the Asian ladies upset.
Well, there goes that segment.
I'm staying.
We'll stay in little monsters following you, too.
I think I just counted them down.
Yeah, that's getting creepy now.
I only want women following me on Twitter.
Well, I hope everyone listening enjoyed that new segment.
Okay.
So we move on to the command of the week.
Yes, good.
Peter, you're up first just in case.
Okay.
The family stops by.
The will.
Okay.
Just a quick one.
This is an FF MPEG command for when you've got a podcast that is a bit quiet.
It's often I'd download a podcast and even on the Mac volume I can't hear them on the mower.
So a quick FF MPEG dash.
I.
And then we'll say crank is old.
Well, the input file.
Then the space dash AB.
And then the whatever.
Bitrate.
You want it in like 192 kilobits.
And the important thing is space dash volume or VOL.
Now, 256 is what it is.
So it's not going to amplify it or decrease it.
So if you put a number less than 256, it'll decrease the volume.
And higher than 256, it's going to increase it.
So you might try 327.
And then dash WA.
And then whatever output file you want to call it.
And it's just a quick way of just increasing the volume of the whole file.
327.
That sounds rather arbitrary.
Well, that's a small blockchev.
Yes.
I'm out with that.
We're there to even think it.
That was a great engine.
It tries 350.
That's my command of the week.
Let's talk about engines.
Does anybody ever have a 396 big block?
No.
The biggest of.
I've never owned a big block.
I had 173.
173 NOVA.
And the engine was in 1869 and 396.
Beautiful.
It would raise the front wheels off the ground.
Sweet.
Memories.
I used to do that with small blocks.
But you put a small blockchev in a MGA.
And it'd lift the front wheels easy.
The MGA.
Yeah.
They'd come out in the early 50s.
Those little sports cars?
Yeah.
Well, that's cheating.
No.
That's where you get it.
You get rid of the weight.
Glad to.
If you want to jump in here at any time.
I don't know what kind of engine I've had.
So.
What's an engine, huh?
Yeah.
I had a command line.
Command of the week.
What a way to change the subject?
Good.
This one is pretty easy.
But it's something that I've found a lot of people don't really necessarily know about, I guess,
a lot of new Linux users don't really know.
So when you're downloading files, especially like ISOs and things like that,
and maybe something, well whether something works or not,
you might want to check the MD5 sum of that file.
And on other operating systems, it seems to be fairly complex.
But on Linux, it's really, really simple.
You just type in the command MD5 sum.
That is MD and the number 5 in the word sum,
as you all in word space.
And then the name of that ISO that you've just downloaded.
And that spits out a big long sequence of numbers and letters.
And you pair that big long sequence of numbers and letters
to the MD5 sum that the place that you've downloaded that ISO has provided to you.
And if they are different, that means you didn't get what you meant to get.
If they are the same, then you've got exactly what is on the server.
And so that's the way to kind of verify the reliability of your download.
That's a quick and easy way to do it, too.
Yeah, and you should do that before you go into IRC channel asking
about why the ISO won't burn or why it seems to boot up to a certain point and stop.
But all these other problems, I mean sometimes,
sometimes just a simple MD5 sum check will kind of answer your question.
I.E., you've got a bad version of it, you need to re-download.
Does that happen a lot to you?
Do people ask about stuff like that?
I mean, you get bad ISOs.
Me? No, not really.
Actually, I think it might happen once.
But more typical, I mean it's just kind of like people have really weird questions.
And someone will ask, did you check the MD5 sum?
And they'll be like, why don't you not do that?
And it's just so easy on Linux, so.
It's like you're talking to someone right now.
I'm talking to you.
Oh, I thought somebody was in the...
You're trying to get a point across of someone, but you didn't want to mention their name.
No, no, it's just...
I'm just saying some people don't know how to check the MD5 sum at all.
And unfortunately, I don't really know how to do it on Windows.
And I don't remember how to do it on Mac.
I don't think the MD5 sum command is included on Mac.
I could be totally wrong about that.
It's easy to install, it's not.
But either way, it's just one command away.
And it's just, I think it's good practice and something good to do.
Something good to know how to do anyway.
Very nice.
Yes.
It's going to be like rapid fire.
OK, Asmeth, what do you get for us?
Not a...
330.
I don't have anything.
J-Man.
Simple, but useful as the watch command.
You can specify the number of seconds to wait.
But basically, this gets the output and then waits in the interval and then gets the output again.
So effectively, it updates the output without you doing anything.
The output of what?
Of any command you want to run?
You just pipe it too.
You pipe it too much or do you proceed?
No, you do watch space and then the command.
OK, OK, that's cool.
Can you give us an example?
Let me type it in now.
Like watch, like, if I was waiting for a module to come into effect, I would watch LS Mod maybe.
And by default, it would wait every two seconds and run the command again.
And then you can redirect that to a...
Something or is it going to output on the screen?
Yeah, it's just for your...
So you're not actually the same as just running the J-Man.
Instead of just typing Lich Mod every five seconds, it'll just repeat it every five seconds.
Yeah, it'll do it continuously and you just watch it.
And how do you get out of it just to control C to stop it?
Yeah, you can control C out of it.
Looks like by default, it runs every two seconds.
Yeah, you have to specify the time with dash in.
So you run it with a...
As is former pick I-N-X-I.
It's like...
It's almost like a real-time...
...stat-up data.
That's really cool.
Yeah, it's useful for things with watching log files and all that.
Even if you'd just...
Like the other day, my...
My Mithbox was getting hot.
And I kept on just running the LM sensors on the laptop to keep it on the Mithbox to see...
If I'd fixed it, so I could've just used it in that particular instance.
Good one to know.
That is a good one to know.
What was the switch to change the default time?
Did you say dash in?
Was it in space and then the second?
Yeah, I found Chaser saying he could...
He used watch a lot when he is moving files from one place to another to make sure that he's not running out of a drive space.
That's a good use for it.
Yeah, there are lots of potential uses for that one, I guess.
Very nice, J-Man.
You just moved up the list again.
Yeah.
Well, I guess I can put mine into the command category, but it's more of a tip to shut off.
Like, say you don't want to...
You want to disable your login manager, like GDM or KDM.
As root, you can type in update-rc.d space-f, KDM remove.
And we'll disable it.
So, next time you boot into your computer, you're dropped right at the command line.
Can't you just switch to a different run-level for that, or wouldn't that do the same thing?
Well, this is easier.
Is it?
I don't know.
Yeah, just engrab.
Like, when it boots, you just edit your grab menu and put a three at the end of your kernel on.
So, what you're talking about, clap to it?
Although you have to be careful changing run-levels because not all distros are exactly the same.
Right, yeah.
Because going from Fedora to Ubuntu, if you get them one-off, you'll send it into an infinite reboot cycle.
I had a professor do that in the front of class.
And I had to bail him out because he wanted to reinstall Ubuntu.
Yeah.
Monthly.
Come on, just paste in that one for me.
I've got the update-rc.d.
It didn't escalate now.
Is it that time?
Oh, yeah.
Is it that watch on that data 64?
It wouldn't told you.
Watch months to be.
I've got my webcam doing that all the time.
Do you follow me on Twitter?
Yeah, I'm like you.
Besides two tweets I've been used since the last time I talked to you six months ago.
I had to use it twice to talk to Pegos since he doesn't come and talk to us anymore.
Once the wishy-me happy birthday wants to tell me to get stuff that I hate him.
Well, with that command, and I just gave you, if you KDM updates, if your distril throws out an update, it would all mechanically re-enactivate it.
So if you're using something like Debian said, it might happen a lot.
But I just thought it was handy because you're not actually uninstalling KDM.
You're just shutting it off.
Well, anything else, guys?
No, I don't think so.
Not for me, anyway.
Any last words?
Yeah, happy new year.
Happy new year, everyone.
Does anyone have a New Year's resolution that's free software related?
Nope.
No.
What's free software?
I was just thinking about it because somebody had asked on Identica for him.
And my reply was to try to beat Spot to a solution on the Fedora legal mailing list.
Which I don't think will be possible because I've had about 15 replies that said it wasn't going to be.
Solution to what? I'm not sure if I understand.
If people go into the Fedora mailing list a lot and ask questions about,
yeah, would this be able to be packaged in Fedora because of the lifestyle?
A lot of people are using it.
Yeah, I think so.
And I think the man has memorized every single free software license there is.
Which is weird because he's not, isn't he?
Oh wait, no, he's a system engineer.
I forget what that guy's pilot is now.
So I'm liking you to hype Fedora a month ago.
Well, you're running into this shit now.
Yeah, really?
And so it's fab from Linux Outlaws, I'm telling you.
All the cool podcast hosts are switching to Fedora.
Well, if I ever become cool, I'll do it too.
I don't think I'll ever be that cool, I'm afraid.
Yeah, you're on Slackware.
You're all right.
Oh, thank God.
Yeah, but do you have a heat tech t-shirt?
I'm going to get one of those because, you know, that's the next big thing.
In tech.
Well, Terry F is going to play us out with amazing juice ping-win pick again.
All right.
And then after that?
Is that that noise at the end of all the tid radio episodes that I just fast-forward through?
Yeah.
Oh, okay, cool.
And then after that, I'm going to go ahead and splice in what we talked about at the beginning of the show.
When we talked about Firefox and...
I heard you're a clever segue there.
When you dropped in the mention of Firefox?
Yeah.
Oh, it was good.
Yeah, that was some good talks.
I'll just go and throw that in after the song.
So I'll talk to you guys next year for another TIT radio.
All right.
So yes.
Good night.
Good night.
Woohoo, that was good.
That was great.
Awesome.
I'm going to have to turn on my fan.
I'm sweating.
You know what you need?
I know exactly what I need.
You need some of that heat deck under where I keep you dry.
Your junk will be dry and dusty.
Your junk.
Your neds.
All I got to say is 330 things for the title.
The arrow will fill me.
My neds are dried.
Have a good night for me.
You know that.
A horse.
So you could say,
you can't neds.
Go neds.
Go neds.
I know you guys don't care,
but it is amazingly dry down there.
I'm telling you that.
You're right.
Good.
You're going to leak him dry, 330.
Oh, do you?
Nothing.
Nothing kind of sweat and I do.
No, I don't want to hear it.
Oh, no, no, no, no, don't go there.
Come on.
I'm overweight.
All right.
We know what happens when people are overweight.
So you got the lines.
I do you man titties.
I just stick Q tips down there to keep it dry.
Underneath the mantis.
Today's show is brought to you by Goldbond Powder.
Yeah, now we'll be able to tell the difference between me and Gorkhan.
Oh.
Or not.
Say, do you think he'd sit around and talk about his new underwear
and his sweat protection?
Yeah, I think he'd lay in the endroids.
If it wasn't from your diary, would you?
Yeah, it was from Gear Diary.
Oh.
Gear Diary.com slash a dry ball.
Haha.
All right, Jench.
I'm going to run.
I'll go visit us.
I'll quote you later on.
All right.
See you later.
Later for you.
He can't be sitting around talking about odor-absorbing garment
on his company that ran.
That's right.
It might be that pretty sister-in-law.
Haha.
Haha.
Oh, boy.
I think I'm going to hop off here, too.
And I got to turn on the fan.
Yeah, I got to get some sleep.
So I will talk to everyone later.
See you later.
Yeah.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Go out to 330.
Anybody that's left.
Good night, Az.
Hey, this is Terry from The Juiced Penguin.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio
with a song called Give and Take Away by 3-Legged Dog.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play out tonight's tick radio.
I'm going to play outa latitude.
I'm going to play outLAUGHBOTKpm.
I'm going to play out coastal coastal sea.
I'm going to play out onto cliffs over gravel.
I'm going to play out onto cliffs over gravel,
I'm going to play out onto cliffs over gravel.
I'm going to play out onto cliffs over gravel.
I'm going to play out onto cliffs over gravel.
I'm going to play out onto cliffs over steep gravel.
I'm going to play out onto cliff over gravel.
I'm going to play out onto cliffs over gravel.
I'm going to play out onto cliffs over gravel.
So, is it Google browser or Google Chrome?
It's Chrome or Chromium because it is confusing because if you go to check it out.
Oh, I said, if you go to the demo, I'll join Chrome and Chromium.
One's free.
Hi.
Well, technically they're both free, but Chrome does some extra quality assurance.
Basically, with Chromium, you take your chances.
They don't care if they break it.
And they also add H264 and MP3 stuff to the HTML5 tag.
Some other little things.
It's so frickin reliable.
It's crazy.
It is a sweet browser.
Is everyone used it here?
I've used Chromium.
I didn't think it was that great.
Yeah, I can't say that I was...
I didn't live in it, but I got to use it for a moment and it didn't jump out at me.
Really?
I guess that didn't really...
Well, yeah, I didn't really...
I didn't see what the deal was.
But then again, it was just...
It was on someone else's computer and I was just like...
I don't know what I was doing, but it wasn't like I was trying it out for myself for a long time.
I think this...
Let me check the build on this one.
Because I was using it for all the Google stuff.
Like, if I was going to use Gmail, if I was going to use...
Or things that I didn't want to have to enable scripting for.
I would use it and I...
It seemed like IE6 with tabs.
It was just kind of there.
IE with tabs?
No.
Are you sure you were using Opera?
No.
Because when I used Windows, I had a browser that was Internet Explorer with tabs.
It was called Maxthon.
It was God Awful.
Because this is so...
There's so much screen because it uses the title bar for your tabs.
Yeah.
I just...
Like, there's nothing wrong with it.
It just...
I think everybody else hyped it way too much.
I think Jay Lindsay hyped it way too much.
Do you...
Is the only one raving about it that I heard?
Well, no, I'm raving.
It's a good browser.
Well, yeah, but it's not a great browser.
It's the perfect browser.
Whoa.
Perfect.
I mean...
I think it's the best that we have right now, Phoenix.
Dude, let me tell you.
I was waiting on the extensions because that was the only thing that was keeping me in that room.
It was keeping me in that ram hog of an application called Firefox.
Yeah.
But now I have the extensions.
So, you know...
Am I the only one that doesn't have ram issues with Firefox?
Yeah.
You're the only one in the frickin' world.
Yeah.
Because I'm telling you Firefox.
I mean, I love it because of what it is and what it's done for, like, free software and whatnot.
But it is big.
It is a bloated application.
The less I have to use it, it's sort of the better.
They don't even enable the optimizations on Linux.
They do it on Linux.
Have you experienced...
Well, of course you haven't experienced Firefox on Windows.
But it's fast.
It is so frickin' fast compared to the Linux version.
Huh.
Interesting.
What about if you compile it yourself and, like, do certain things?
But I wouldn't know how to do it.
But, like, is that an option or...?
Yeah.
It gets better once you enable the profile optimizations, but...
Oh, I know you're talking about the contigued and most contigued files.
They don't even care, really.
I mean, Firefox is, like, on Linux.
It's, like, the second rate to them.
Let's say, because HTOP is saying that it's using 22.9% of my RAM.
But that's with 54 tabs open.
And it closes cleanly and it doesn't crash on you?
No.
How many extensions do you have in that thing?
Let's find out.
Well, he's looking.
I have a whole bunch of them.
Okay.
Whenever I shut down Firefox and then wait 10 minutes and fire it back up,
it says Firefox is already running.
And I have to go to and kill it to restart it.
Yeah, exactly.
You have to kill it by hand.
Yeah, that's gotta be a bug in a certain build or a period of build.
Because that was happening to me on Fedora.
No, on something.
But I think that I updated and it, like, it didn't happen anymore.
It's happening to me on the newest build on FreeBSD and Debian.
Yeah, I even built it myself once,
but it was around the same time that it was happening to me.
And it still has the same problem.
Yeah.
But, apparently, it does not have that problem.
Through multiple upgrades, I've experienced the same problem.
Wow.
Do you want to do 22 extensions?
Yeah, 22 extensions.
22 that are enabled.
I have 23, but one of them didn't come along with the updates.
It's still waiting.
Well, I'll just tell you, applications are not supposed to, like, sit idle
and consume continuous amounts of RAM.
And I've seen it use hundreds of makes of RAM.
I've seen it happen.
Do you leave it open all day or two?
Yeah.
Oh, cool.
I mean, I'll leave it open for, like, four or five, six hours at a time.
I don't, if I'm not doing anything, I tend to close it.
Yeah.
Huh.
Yeah, I try to close as much as possible,
because I just don't like leaving shit open.
Yeah.
But yeah, I've been looking at t-shirts online all day,
and that's what I did with my day after Christmas, but, you know.
That's productive time spent.
Well, t-shirts are big, so they don't take up that much RAM.
Yeah.
Oh, these are all extra-extra-large t-shirts.
Oh, PNGs?
Yeah.
I'm going for the world's record.
I saw that episode of The Simpsons again, where Homer gets fat and doesn't have to work.
And I was like, there's me, baby.
Well, that would be awesome.
Somebody was, like, on QBC, trying to fill a computer, and they were like,
you can put so many t-shirts in here.
Just watch me download these t-shirts.
These are extra-extra-large t-shirts.
Is there, like, a wall they probably is?
I was going to say if a TV show used a blue screen of death, they would have to get away.
They show up on TV all the time.
Accidentally, but they show up.
The one thing that might keep me from having some problems in Firefox is,
I use no script all the time.
So it's not loading, you know, 17 flash elements per page and all that shit.
Well, yeah.
A lot of the problem is flash.
I'll say that.
Yeah.
When flash gets going, it will consume so much RAM.
Yeah, but yeah, I don't use flash.
And I was having those closing issues that you were talking about.
So that must be something different.
I was having it a while back, but I don't have it anymore.
I mean, a while I'm talking like over a year ago.
Well, you're just lucky.
I must be.
Say, I've got great Firefox and I have some intermittent issue with my primary click
where I can't click anymore.
So I'll trade you guys.
I'd love to use my mouse all the time.
What are you talking about?
You can't click.
Is it a hardware issue, you mean?
I have no idea.
Every once in a while.
Yeah.
I'll be surfing around clicking.
I'll sudden, it won't accept what would be left clicks.
Because you don't have to wear a ram left.
Exactly.
Exactly.
I don't know.
No, no.
I think you just discovered your own little Firefox issue there.
I'd say, but I can right click anywhere.
Oh, and I've thought it was Firefox and killed Firefox and it still doesn't fix it.
No, I do what it is.
Right clicking uses lower memory.
All the big T-shirts have been downloaded.
You're going to make some T-shirts or you're going to buy some?
I was looking at buying, but people on the internet aren't nearly as clever as I am.
So I may end up making T-shirts.
You are clever.
Well, I found one earlier where the person couldn't even speak English.
Well, I wouldn't really.
T-shirt for him.
Not everybody speaks English.
No, that's crazy, man.
He just blew my mind.
Damn foreigners.
I mean, what the hell?
No, it was for some reason they had A and the right next to each other and it made no sense at all.
I was just like, wow, they should have read that before.
We live in a crazy world, man.
I have a T-shirt idea.
It just has H-top on it.
That would be cool.
Where it shows like Firefox, where it says memory usage 0.9 percent.
We had to preserve this moment in time.
This was three nanoseconds after it was opened, but not to keep harping on the whole Firefox thing.
I just noticed when I fire up Firefox or Ice Weasel, to me it seems clunky.
If that describes it, it just doesn't seem as responsive as the Google Chrome browser.
And don't get me wrong, I'm not a big fan of Google.
I just think they put out a pretty good product here.
Yeah, well, I mean, you wouldn't want to use it as your operating system.
No.
But, yeah, it's good browser.
I don't have any problems with Firefox.
I mean, I hate to agree with 330, but it's relatively crumbly free.
But then I only have one extension and one plug-in in it.
Well, I mean, I have an added everything to it.
I haven't geeked myself right out of a web browser.
I mean, I'm not saying that I can't use it or anything.
I'm just saying I definitely see that it's a bloated application.
And they have had problems with it from time to time.
Yeah, but every extension and plug-in you add to it isn't that much more bloat.
It ain't that bad if you just use it.
I'm pretty sure I don't have any.
Well, I have ad block, but I don't think I really have anything else.
No, that's not true. I have FireBell there.
I forgot.
Yeah, you're right.
Well, the real test here, let's see if it talks to you.
It makes it all night without crashing.
I can't even get in to talk to you.
Oh, I guess that's because I don't have flash.
No, I never had flash before, and I always got in.
It changes the flash into a JPEG if you don't have flash for the button.
I don't know why I can't get in there.
It's weird.
It's because of Firefox.
Even though I did get a warning that my browser does not support, it talks you.
It seems to be working pretty good.
That's okay.
Talks you don't support your browser either.
Maybe that's why it works.
It doesn't know how to crash it.
That could be.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by Carol.net.
She'll head on over to C-A-R-O dot N-E-T for all of her speedy.
Thanks for watching.
Thanks for watching.
