Episode: 652
Title: HPR0652: Nameless Infosec Podcast Ep 1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0652/hpr0652.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 00:26:56

---

.
.
Welcome to the Nameless InfoSec podcast. This is Sporus, and with me is
bio-shadow.
Just to introduce ourselves a little bit about me. I'm into manga, anime, things like that.
I'm a student of computer science, and I've been interested in InfoSec for a while,
and I've been wanting to podcast for a while, so we're giving it a shot.
Like I said, named bio-shadow, I am new to the infrared security.
Apparently, two years now, I am working for a web security company,
paid to break website stately, so yeah, but I like long walks on the beach.
Long walks on the beach are always good.
So right now, the name for the podcast is the nameless InfoSec podcast,
because we're too lazy to come up with a name.
And what we're going to be doing is we're both new to InfoSec, and we figured we'd
learn as, or everybody else would learn as we learn.
So we noticed that there was this gap in podcasts where it was like the security
now where it's just like basic computer security, and then there's this gap
where on the other side where it was really not really high technical,
but really advanced stuff, but there was nothing for us newcomers.
So we're trying to fill that void.
We'll be also filling a void on hacker public radio by being one of the only InfoSec news
shows on hacker public radio currently.
Well, why don't we get right into current projects?
What are you working on?
Currently, I am trying to broaden my web security knowledge.
I'm very new to this space.
I just use space.
I'm new to the genre.
That's not even good word either.
I'll just move on and try to broaden my skills in there.
And I'm also trying to actually get back into blog posts and I'm also trying to learn Ruby,
which is not going well.
Well, you have to teach me some Ruby later because I haven't worked on that at all.
So currently I'm working on a kind of secret project that I'll hopefully be talking
about at several conferences this year.
I can't really talk about it much right now.
Other than that, I'm just trying to learn a lot about as much about coding as I can
because that's kind of where I see myself going.
I'm trying to work a lot with parallel programming, things like that.
And having some fun with Google Go.
Google Go.
It's that Google programming language that they came out with last year.
Have you looked at it?
Yeah, I looked at it when it came out.
I haven't looked at it since, but it does look interesting.
It's been growing pretty quickly.
And it's easy to write in.
Well,
you want to get right on to the news?
Yeah, let's get right on to the news.
All right, why don't you take this first story?
First story coming from RoyalPingdom.com's blog.
They tore apart the semantic,
the semantic message labs intelligence report for 2010.
And they pulled out a bunch of nuggets about email spam.
You know, they found out that, you know, like 80,
it's a 66 report and they just pulled out all the nice nuggets of facts.
Like,
last year in 2009, I guess,
90 percent, 96 percent of spam was English.
And it has gone down to 90 percent.
So,
semantic is rationalizing this as they were coming more international,
rather than targeting us,
United States and Britain.
They're hitting everybody now, which is pretty cool.
And I found it interesting.
And it was talking about the spam botnets.
I've always been interested in the botnet thing.
Oh, yeah, that's, yeah, that was pretty cool.
The 88 percent spam from botnets talking about,
on average, 77 spam messages are sent out per minute
from a compromised bot.
But some bots send out as much as 200 minutes.
That's, that's a lot of email.
So, have you, have you done any work with any botnet research yourself?
I attempted to do some when I was a field tech at a K-12.
We had quite a few botnets there.
So, we looked at, you know, we didn't get too deep,
but we saw the traffic going to, you know, Eastern Europe and,
and China, not very much China.
As this, as this blog post actually points out,
it's that the knowledge traffic goes to China.
I was going to mention the, if you look at the graphic on the blog post,
pretty much everything is in Europe.
So, yeah, it's not just Eastern Europe.
Like, I would have thought it's all over Europe.
Yeah.
And I thought it was fairly sent to us.
Yeah, I would have thought the US would have been brighter, you know,
like a darker color.
But it's very, it's very not.
And then Europe is just like, it's red.
It's, yeah.
It's kind of staggered.
It says, China sends less than half a percent
of the global botnet spam.
So, I'd have thought it'd be a little bit more
because I talk about how there's so many more computers in China now
and people aren't protecting them and things like that.
So, we, a roommate thought about the comment was,
well, the great wall of China, you know,
the great firewall of China, maybe that's part of the reason.
Maybe the internal spam is a lot higher,
but the traffic that we actually see is lower.
But that is very interesting that it's less than a percent.
That's an interesting observation.
It makes a lot of sense.
Well, I mean, that's, that's pretty much all for this post.
It just talked about the different statistics with spam.
It was, it was an interesting read if you're interested in spam.
So.
And they have a link to the full report that 66 pages long.
I downloaded it for later brain numbing.
I'll have to put that on my Kindle later and check that one out.
You want to take this next story?
All right.
So, the next story is from computer world.
Hacker skill, $150,000 with malicious job application.
So, it says that small businesses,
there's a new scam where people wanting to hack their online bank accounts
will apply for a job.
It talks about an FBI report here.
They're calling it an ACH fraud or automatic clearinghouse fraud
where they install malicious software on the business
this computer and use it to log into their bank account.
I mean, this is an interesting approach.
I've never heard of anything like this before I've seen this article.
Yeah.
I had never thought about that stack that anyone's going to open up.
But it makes sense.
Like, everyone's going to open job application.
You know, to think about it, you know, even the larger companies
where do job application go to HR, Sally and HR?
And I bet you Sally doesn't think about viruses.
So, it's an interesting approach and apparently it's working
since they got $150,000.
That's right.
I mean, really, the only way I can think of to combat this,
I mean, if they're writing their own malware,
your different scanning software isn't going to pick it up.
And so you'd have to put your HR department on a separate network,
which, I mean, that makes sense.
But for a small business, that's something that's not very feasible.
Yeah.
As always, the email that's sent out is very well, not well,
I should say, written.
They've got an example down here.
So, hello.
I have figured out that you have an available job.
I am quite interested in it.
So, I send you my resume looking forward to your work,
reply.
Thank you.
And Sonic Wall is also reporting that's only at the trojan
that they found has only been around since last July.
Oh, no.
Oh, sorry.
This game has been around at least six months according to security vendor,
and Sonic Wall, which reported the trojan last July.
Okay.
Well, if this is something that anybody is worried about,
you know, different ways it mentions that you can work on it
as, uh, delete the attachment and ask for a plain text version,
or if you've, if you're using Gmail for your email,
which I know a lot of businesses are with the Google apps and things,
um, you can open documents in Gmail to see if they're legitimate.
And then, you know, all the risk is on Google servers instead of on your own.
Which, uh, I know for a fact, Google makes sure that there's no viruses on it.
Right.
I mean, can you think of any other advice for people on how to deal with something like that?
Um, only, I would say only open PDFs, but we've proven that PDFs aren't secure either.
So, I mean, I can, the only thing I can think of is to only use it,
like maybe a separate computer, like an unsecured computer that's, uh,
like, uh, sparegapped on the regular internal network or open it in Gmail,
uh, Google, like, uh, use gestures.
But yeah, that's, that's a good one because you can't not open job applications,
especially if you're looking for, uh, looking for employees.
Yes.
Yeah.
I think that's good advice right there.
So, uh, do you want to take the next one?
Sure.
Of course, I'm going to get this one.
Apparently, there is a new virus called the Kama Sutra virus out there.
Apparently, the Kama Sutra virus is being transferred in the form of a downloaded,
uh, PowerPoint template or PowerPoint, uh, slideshow, uh, filing.
And the presentation, which is actually an EXE file, is open.
It's, the users are, quote, unquote, treated to an, quote, unquote,
illustrated Kama Sutra position presentation.
And, uh, in the background, the malicious, the malicious code is installing some stuff,
uh, including, uh, according to this blog post, uh, we have, in front of the server,
article, whatever, is downloading a backdoor of some kind, um,
and it's installing some top files, a batch file, two XEs,
and it looks like they're installing something that they're calling acrobat.exe.
So, maybe a reader of some kind, but it looks pretty interesting.
And, no, there is no pictures on the blog posts for those that care.
It is a family-friendly blog apparently.
So, no blog, no pictures for you.
But, I guess you could probably Google search.
So, if you want those, go Google.
Yeah, it's, it's an interesting, um, interesting virus.
I mean, we don't see too many interesting viruses these days that are making it into the news.
So, yeah, it's, it's not like it used to be where people would open anything that got sent to them.
Yeah, it looks, some people still are, but.
Yeah, it looks like they actually put a, uh, true PowerPoint slide on there.
So, you're actually looking at the PowerPoint file.
And, in the background, they're executing a system, uh, registering for a system start.
And, then, changing the security settings at Internet Explorer, and then add system files.
So, yeah, it's, it's standard backdoor, but with a interesting, uh,
I guess an interesting, uh, way to, uh, uh, brain freeze.
Uh, interesting way to, uh, get someone to download it.
Uh, I'll, I'll, I'll, I can say about this one is the, um,
I don't know, with some things, if you're the one whose job it is to clean the computers, it's an unlucky job.
This one, you, you might appreciate it.
Just a tab, just a tab.
Yeah, so, uh, onto the next one.
Um, I'll, I'll take this one.
Um, Doncho Doncho of a zero day blogger and malware researcher.
He's been missing since August, and there's, you know, information coming out in the past few days showing that he's been,
he's probably in some serious trouble.
Uh, this article's on ZDnet, and they're talking about how, um,
nobody's been able to make contact with them.
He's been able to make contact with Bulgarian authorities.
Uh, no one knows what happened to him.
Um, he, apparently an email was sent from him to a colleague of his saying that he was in some, uh,
pretty deep trouble, and he sent some attached pictures.
Uh, so ZDnet, they said they weren't sure how to proceed, and so they published the information so that
they can shed some light on it.
So if, if you have any information on it, they want you to contact them, they have an email and, uh,
we'll have a link to the post and, uh, to their email in the, um, in the show notes.
So I mean, what do you think about this?
It's, uh, yeah, it's kind of scary.
You know, he's, you know, he's in Bulgaria.
So there's, there's the fact that he's in Eastern Europe.
This isn't a US's and for those that are freaking out about, uh, researchers disappearing in the US,
which may or may not happen.
I'm not going to discuss that part, but it's not something you think about happening over here, though.
So definitely not.
And apparently he added some pictures from his, uh, apartment that he found a bug.
I think he says, uh, he says, uh, due to my clear,
room, recommend it.
You know, he says something in here about having pictures of what, uh, the Bulgarian police and or intelligence agencies left him.
And it's apparently a bug.
I believe it was in his kitchen.
No, he says it's the current situation in his bathroom.
So yeah, yeah, in the bathroom, there's a, uh, it looks like a box that's, um, on the wall.
And then he takes a picture of a, uh, some cabling.
And it looks like some cat five cabling, but I don't think that's right.
Maybe cat five and then some, uh, and then some RJ.
Uh, what is it?
15 that's phone cable.
Yeah, it looks like his cable has been split and then, uh, rerun.
So someone's, like, physically manning a million of them.
I don't know.
I mean, it says that he thinks that it's actually the Bulgarian law enforcement that are doing this.
So, and that's what makes it so scary is, you know, if it's organized crime or something,
that's one thing.
But when it's your own government, that makes it, you know, how do you fight something like that?
Yeah, outside help.
I mean, you know, he's clearly, you know, he says in his blog that he's trying to damage his reputation for the last year and a half
because of his pro-western views, you know, and, uh, you know, and there's, there's that.
I mean, no one's coming.
I think another article on wired said that the wired was able to talk to some people that can't tell us where he is or what he's doing.
But he isn't, there is something going on that is not good for him.
So, we don't know if that means something with the Bulgarian, uh, Bulgarian government or if it's the mob, the mob mafia, whatever they want to call themselves now.
But, uh, whoever it is, I mean, all we can do right now is hope that somebody does have some information to shed on it and, you know, hope that he does come out okay in the end.
Yeah, but that's kind of a scary thing to think about.
I mean, it doesn't sound like it's because he's a malware researcher.
It sounds like it's more about his other views, but I mean, that, you know, you think about it.
There's, you know, I've been reading some different things about the computer underground in the late 80s, early 90s.
I mean, there's things where it seems like any government might want to get rid of you being in computer research just because you might know too much.
Yeah.
So you listen to you read the wrong form and you find out that Bulgarians or governments writing this or that.
Right or then you are hacking to the wrong system.
So drop into the wrong CNC server.
Yeah, just it's not good.
Yeah, say it's a don't hack the military from your home connection.
So proxies are your friend.
And if you do know anything, please help in any way you can.
I don't, I don't think they care if they know who you are. They just want information.
So we'll have links to that one and all the others in the show notes.
So you want to grab the next one.
Sure.
We got smart phone hacking.
Smart phone hacking highlights more GSM was if GSM wasn't broken enough.
Apparently this article came out today, a couple, a couple hours ago when we record this, which is the 19th out of black at DC.
Some European, a European research day showed that how bugs he discovered in the baseband chipset firmware of iPhone and Android smartphones could be exploited to ultimately take control of these devices.
Apparently he can use, he can intercept phone calls SMS and in some cases the GPRS, which is the general packet radio service and edge.
Playing on which what hardware says that you can use, he's out of the University of Luxembourg if that means anything.
Turns out it sounds like it's, you know, they specifically mentioned the iPhone and Android, but looking through the article, it sounds like it's more because of GSM than because of the iPhone Android.
So potentially more owns are susceptible to this.
Yeah, it's, it's not, is that kind of what's up?
Yeah, it's not specific hardware, it's not specific OS, it just happens to be that he found these vulnerabilities in this firmware for this chipset and used, used the GSM network to get it.
And, you know, so he also seems to be a winner from last year's pound of own.
So this is not the first time.
And he mentions Chris Paggot's, you know, cell phone, GSM hacking at last year's DEF CON in July.
And he says that his attack is more malicious and he could break the phone.
Yeah, and, and actually take it over with this attack.
Yeah, I mean, you know, thinking about, you know, in the US, we've got Verizon and Sprint, but worldwide, I think it's something like 80% of clones in the world or GSM or something like that.
Pretty much, if you're outside the US, you are pretty much a GSM phone. We have two network, we have two or three networks instead of CDMA.
And for once, I'm happy to be on CDMA.
I'm on GSM myself, but I don't mention BlackBerry in this article, but if it's due to GSM, no one carries BlackBerrys anymore to break them.
So I think you're right. I think you've reached the point where no one cares about BlackBerrys.
I've noticed most people don't even mention it when I mention smartphones these days.
Taylor, Tyler Davis is a stuff that he talked about at Schmuck on last year about using his BlackBerry as a personal bug, being able to read phone calls and stuff.
And GPS coordinates down to three feet.
So far, I haven't found anything very much that other people can do that I can't and I can write my own apps for it just fine.
Y'all have fun with your iPhones and other toys.
But yeah, it seems like every couple of months now they're coming out with something else that's showing vulnerabilities in GSM.
Switching to 3G, we do have the better encryption on 3G, but it's still a proprietary encryption and I'm just wondering how long if ever it's going to be before we get something really secure there.
And GSM is like all together better because I mean all you have to do is switch Sims out. It's not hard word locked.
Right. So I really switch.
You can switch carriers without flashing the firmware.
So yeah, that's I would really like for the GS the group behind GSM. I think it is GSM. That's behind it.
But I don't remember what the name is, but I really hope that they fix their stuff because I really like GSM better because well I would like to be able to.
Go to Europe and put a new sim into my phone and not have to buy a new cell, you know.
And the nice thing is that I mean there is software out there that will let you.
You know, there are apps for all the different phones that will let you do encrypted encrypted text messages and encrypted voice.
Yeah, on top of the encryption that's within GSM, but the problem with that is that you.
You know, you have to be calling somebody else who can do that. Yeah. So it's the iPhone.
Not iPhone. Android has a red phone and text.
A text here by a whisper systems who's a most famous member is a moxie Marlin spike.
Okay. He's.
I actually talked to him about it at a pay threat, which is a local conference first year here.
I mean, it did some talks about what it was what you call it.
He was a cute and fluffy something or other. I can't remember, but it was a pretty cool talking.
He was it was talking about, you know, the no network effect and stuff, but that's the same problem.
It's like you can have the most secure the most secure phone where it's like encrypted down to the firmware.
But if you can't call somebody else with that same phone, it's useless.
So, you know, it's. Do have security. You have to have it on every phone.
Ross, it's worthless because oh, I have an encrypted phone, but you don't have an.
And I can't talk to you. And if I do, it's unencrypted.
Right. Even if there's a.
You know, I was just trying to think of ways you could get around that one of the ways I was thinking of was.
If you have like a server in the middle that the phone call goes through so that you're encrypted to the server.
You know, like an encrypted proxy type thing that it's still encrypted going to them.
So if, you know, the person you're talking to is hugged and they they're not encrypted.
Then, you know, what's the point of having that encryption that far?
You know, yeah, Wi-Fi encryption only gets you to your router or it doesn't get you out into the internet.
So.
Yeah, exactly.
But well, let's, you know, we're starting to get a little long in time.
Let's go ahead and hit this next story. Cool.
I think I'll grab this one. So.
This next story is talking about botnets, one of my all time favorite topics because typically some interesting stuff.
Researchers are saying that Walladac is is back and has a new push and the rust stock botnet is pump spam again as well.
So this article is on dark reading and in their insider threat section.
And it's just basically saying that they're not really expecting anything new.
You know, just do it from secure works of sand.
But the botnets are all coming back.
I can, you know, just that took the botnet.
It's a really easy to do. So it's getting a lot more common to find botnets.
Yeah.
And they mentioned the different ways that the command and control happens.
And that's always what's been interesting to me is seeing how that's changed.
You know, we used to see where it would all be from a server.
And then, you know, it was it was done on IRC and now a lot of it's going to social networks like Twitter.
So.
Yeah. Robin Wood showed how you were able to do a command and control via Twitter.
And he actually did the talk at true con last year.
And you can tell what's on my mind.
We'll get to that.
But he did a talk in like a week after there was some unique traffic coming out of Twitter that actually eventually got blocked.
But it looked like someone was using his proof of concept to actually run a small botnet.
And I remember reading that story.
So yeah, it was very interesting.
He said that it's a very similar idea, but it was not his proof of concept because he said his proof of concept was very, very crippled on purpose.
And so someone looked at his code and wrote it rewrote it or fixed it.
But being Twitter being Twitter saw this and jumped on it.
And I guess it's probably still happening because well, you can't stop all this man or all the stuff, but they are still on top of it.
But it's, yeah, it was very interesting.
He was able to like, in the example he used, he was able to use a Twitter to grab the SAM file, the SAM file from a Windows server.
And then, and then mail it to himself.
And so he was able to get the list of, you know, admin passwords on his example server.
It was pretty cool.
But yeah, C and C was a fun part.
Right. That's, yeah, it's, it's just interesting seeing all the different ways botnet operators figure things out.
Speaking of botnets, it's, it's not exactly a botnet, but, and I, but what do you think of the kind of volunteer botnet with that anonymous is doing?
The, the luke.
Yeah, low orbit ion cannon.
Yeah, yeah.
So have you, have you done any looking into that?
One time I looked into the actual tool they're actually using was someone wrote a mobile version, and I was sitting on a light rail going to or from work.
And so I pulled it up on my phone and just threw it at my server.
And all I did was sit there and try to make requests on behalf of my phone.
And all I did was just send, it didn't work.
It's just like 775 packets sent.
None, none sent back, you know, no packets back or whatever.
But yeah, it was, I just chucked it up to 4chan users, not being the greatest developers, but they.
We don't want to, we don't want to do some too bad else.
They'll take down our podcasts, but.
I'm not, I'm in the, the great words that my, that Jeremiah Grossman said, don't poke the bear.
Right.
We're not going to call ourselves unhackable.
We're not stupid.
But yeah, it's an interesting idea.
I was kind of, type of kind of for them when they were doing stuff like copyrights and, and the trolls that were.
Right.
And they started, they were taking down like Scientology, things like that.
You know, that was actually like you, I can see the benefit of the site not being up for a few hours, but just.
Right.
But to hit stuff like.
Master Garden Visa.
Yeah, where they were where I've had this discussion with my roommate, but, you know, it's, they have like, they could have legal threats against the US.
And so they decided to avoid the problem by stopping it.
And so.
For some reason, for a chance, I saw this as a bad thing and attacked them.
So, but I find it interesting.
It's definitely different.
You know, it's, they're not using a botnet.
Well, they are, but it's all into your botnet.
So it's, it's very interesting.
It's, it's something I haven't, I haven't really seen before.
I mean, that's not to say it hasn't happened on a smaller scale.
But I haven't seen it.
I haven't, I haven't really seen it done before where people have, you know, volunteered to install something on their computer that would be malicious.
So.
There's, I don't know if you heard it, but the gesture.
Yeah, he's.
Yeah.
Follow the gesture on Twitter.
I enjoyed his, uh, his, his talking about anonymous and the like.
So.
Yeah, there was something I think he posted and I got a retweet of it.
Maybe it was from you, but, uh, where he, uh, the new software that they were using was posted on a bunch of forums.
And the source was available in the downloads.
So he took the source and added some stuff that made him less anonymous.
And then reciled it and changes the version number and then re upload it to the new forums and said it was a bug fix and everyone downloaded it.
And it basically had a back door that gave out all the information that they were apparently keeping secure via tour.
And just like put it in the access logs or, uh, or just didn't take it through tour so people would try, uh, so sites could track it back.
And people just downloaded it without thinking or doing a check some on it or anything.
It was pretty interesting.
He was very happy about that.
Well, why don't we, um, move on to our next section and then we'll.
So if you want to talk about your, your stuff.
Sure.
Yeah, this is, we're going to talk about, uh, we're going to talk about, uh, cons that are coming up.
And, uh, the first one, which is next week, the 28th of 30th is 30th is a shoe con 2011.
The con with less moves, um, but the shoe con sells itself as being different, affordable and accessible.
And of course, entertaining, which it always has been.
This is my second year.
It's, um, it's a smaller con.
I've heard it explained to be like the East Coast Defcon.
But smaller, it's, they have a limited lottery system based, uh, ticketing system.
So that's probably why you've probably heard it before if you're in information scary.
But, um, it should be interesting.
They've, uh, they've went to the ways of, uh, normal, normally lots of speakers are the same that are everywhere,
but this year they seem to have grabbed a bunch of new people.
I have recognized, um, three or four names on a list of, uh, three tracks with like six, uh, seven talks a day.
So it's, it's, uh, it's a lot of talks.
Johnny Long will be coming in from, uh, where is he again?
He's in Africa.
I don't remember where he is.
Uh, yeah, he's, he's, he's flying in from Africa wherever he is.
I can't remember.
I'm sorry, Johnny.
I know.
It's somewhere in Africa.
Yeah.
But he's coming in to do a, uh, uh, talk.
And see, shoot on.
And then, uh, smudge, mudge, not smudge, mudge from the, uh, love group is doing a keynote on Friday night.
So that would be interesting.
But there's not very many talks.
It's very mobile in, uh, mobile, uh, themed here.
There's talks about attacking the 3G and 4G.
Connect works.
And, uh, was it, um, that's just saw something.
Of course, I lose it.
As soon as I need to talk about it.
Um, but, uh, but malicious USB drives, uh, devices from, uh, Iron Geek.
Uh, so it's, it looks like it's going to be fun.
I will, uh, go there and be happy and, uh, come back and report.
I will actually go to, I will actually go to the talks since I will have someone to talk to afterwards about it.
But, uh, I'm a, I'm a fan of Iron Geek's talks.
Is, um, one of the highlights of my con going is hanging out with Iron Geek.
Iron Geek is a very interesting guy.
I like him.
He's a lot of fun.
And, uh, a very good speaker.
He, he knows the stuff.
And he, he, it's just like pure data.
Um, then I, I can second year being excited about smoking on because that's all you've been talking about during and before the podcast.
Yeah.
The, uh, as far as I know, it should be live streamed.
As long as we don't have no apocalypse like we did last year, where we tried to do live streaming.
And I just died as soon as it hit the outside, you know, inside it had zero packet loss.
And then as soon as it hit the outside ISP connection, we lost tons of packets.
So the connection was very bad.
But, uh, so, um, did you ever get a, get in contact with, um, uh, who, who was it?
Was it Matthew?
Who was it that was talking for interested in contacting podcasters, which move?
Oh, that was, um, that was each and then.
Uh, that's right.
Yeah.
I, I talked to space rogue and they were going to do a, um, meet the, meet the podcasters.
And, uh, I decided that we didn't qualify since we were going to have one blog post right before.
But not blog posts, one podcast out before.
But, uh, it's, uh, but, uh, it should be interesting.
I'm not sure if we should talk about that actually because he told me.
Well, he did, he did make the open call out for it.
Yeah.
But, uh, it should be, uh, uh, yeah.
Yeah.
Or if, if nothing else, maybe we might try and do a, uh, shmukon special while you're there.
Sure.
I, there will be plenty of bandwidth and I will have an SSH, SSH server running.
All right.
Uh, the other two cons this will be shorter because I don't know as much about one of them.
Is the RSA conference, which is business security conference.
It's, there's lots of buzzwords.
So I'm going to skip through the about page.
But, uh, it's, it's definitely the, uh, CEOs and CEO's conference for security.
But, uh, it's where everyone, all the vendors and all the, uh, people come out and, uh, sell their stuff and do it.
Um, apparently there's good parties there.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I'm not a part of your.
Uh, but the, the good thing is that there will be a B side San Francisco, the first two days Monday and Tuesday during it.
And, uh, I would like to thank the sponsors since it is free.
And, uh, you know, the sponsors are always good.
I'm not going to read them off, but do put a blog post will put a link in the show notes.
But, uh, they are cool.
And I, I, I, thanks them very much.
Uh, the con, the schedule is not up since that is in February.
But there is a very good list of talks that will be voted upon or has been voted upon.
And, uh, but it will be, yeah, voting has closed.
I didn't vote darned.
But, um, there's a good set of things a lot of people have been voted.
Yeah, because they, uh, they live stream everything.
So you'll be able to see the talk, even if you're not here.
But it will be, uh, it will be, yeah, it should be a very cool talk with, uh, no, with no vendors, no, no one trying to sell you anything.
Just information, friends and community.
It should be very cool.
So, yeah, those are the three cons that I will be, well, two of the cons I will be going to and three that are happening where I will be.
So I think you've got two more.
I do.
Um, the first I'll talk about is Indiana Linux Fest.
It'll be March 15th through 17th in Indiana or Indianapolis, Indiana.
At the wind of Indianapolis West hotel.
Um, it's just on there about us page.
It's, it's a conference put on by the Indiana free and open source software.
So it's a society.
It's about community information and friends.
They strive to bring the false idea together for more information gathering.
We want to place for people to network communicate and have a good time.
And I will be at the Indiana.
And it's best from what I've been told it's going to be a lot like Southeast Linux, Linux Fest or Ohio Linux Fest.
I've read a few big sponsor already.
There isn't really any information about who the speakers are going to be besides the opening closing speakers.
First will be Taurus Bay log.
Hope I'm pronouncing that right from open NMS dot org.
And talking about why we can't all get along and why this is a good thing.
And then their closing talk will be.
Bradley coon, the executive director of the software freedom conservancy.
And the talk will be software freedom conservancy nonprofit and.
Picture for floss.
So I think it's going to be an interesting conference.
It'll be my first time going to something that's not a true social con.
So I'm kind of interested to see, you know.
How a little bit more professionally done on this is.
And it'll probably be the biggest con I've been to.
This looks very cool.
I wish I was in Indiana.
We'll have to maybe we can get some sponsors who can pay for us to fly around and go to stuff.
If there's a sponsor that wants to fly me to Indiana so I can be at Indiana Linux Fest, I would be okay with that completely.
All right.
Well, you heard it here. That's a call out.
If you if you're willing to pay for a flight from California to Indiana so that you can go see the conference.
We'll do a live show, not live show, but eight together show.
We'll record together.
No, no Skype.
Yeah.
But we can do it live to this.
It's true.
This isn't as critical.
But stealing our credentials as we log on.
This is true.
Well, right.
So we'll be there.
I will still be us as I took.
But yeah, they may have to fear a little bit with us there.
Two security people at the same conference.
Oh, no.
The other conference I want to talk about is.
Outer zone seven question mark.
I haven't heard any information about an outer zone this year.
I'm trying.
Contacting sky dog to get some information, but sky dog has been completely.
In commune in a cotto with me.
So no idea what.
On their website still set up for outer zone six, but that doesn't surprise me because last year it didn't get changed until.
About a week and a half before the cone.
So whether or not it's happening, I don't know if it does happen.
It will be towards the end of March in Atlanta.
Um, I'm hoping it is not this thing.
You can.
As India next semester, because I would like to go to both.
And I think you said.
You might be able to go to it.
Yeah, depending on the date.
It's any on the date.
And.
So any and that kind of thing.
So.
But yeah.
Right.
So, um, if you know anything about outer zone.
Contact us.
We'd like some information.
This means you sky dog.
Um, we want to go.
So I went out here and I had a blast.
So.
Yeah.
It looks interesting from the.
The guy sitting at the desk.
On the website.
That's sky dog in this office.
But.
Yeah, sky dog's great.
Iron geek was there.
I had a bunch of fun hanging out with all the guys from.
Um, Huntsville.
Makeers local things like that.
So I love outer zone.
Freaking those are two big things that I try and make it to.
I've done.
Freaking it twice now.
And loved every minute of it.
That's what we got me addicted to cons.
That's it.
That's hanging out with a dual care.
As we've discussed.
You and your epic.
Here.
Yes.
Yes, there are pictures of me on Flickr in a photo booth with.
Intady from dual core.
So.
Um, con is our fun.
And that's all I have to say on that.
So.
Closing.
Yeah, closing.
We got to end this eventually, I guess.
No idea how long we've been recording because.
I have no idea, but.
Probably longer than we planned on recording.
Yeah.
This first step has been fun.
Sorry if it's a little rough.
We'll be a little bit more prepared from now on.
Um, our goal is to have one.
How often do we think?
I thought we said monthly as of right now.
Okay.
So right now we're going to be doing it monthly.
Do you have anything you want to say?
Nothing I can think of.
Thanks for listening.
We're sorry that it's a little rough.
Well, like we said, we'll make it better.
And, uh, if you have any comments, questions, feel free to email us.
If you feel like sponsoring us email us, we have no problem with sponsorships.
Um, if you have some.
We should probably get some contact info.
Yes, contact info would be good.
I am on Twitter as bio shadow.
Feel free to add me or DM me.
If you follow me or want to DM me, you can also email me at.
Bio shadow at bio shadow.com.
Then the emails for the.
And I am.
Boris, you can find me.
At J.M. Stilt, S T I T T on Twitter.
And, uh, that's probably the best place to get in touch with me.
Or you can email me.
It's porous.cs at gmail.com.
And, uh, hopefully we'll get a domain name sometime soon.
We'll set up an official podcast email.
Um, that'll probably be later on in the year.
But, uh, yet contact us if you have anything you want us to talk about.
If you want to be interviewed on the show, we're, uh, we're looking to do that.
Yep.
If you want us to fly to a conference.
So, yeah.
That works too.
So, the only thing that we have on our list is witty banter.
They're having a witty banter.
Um, uh, I don't have any banter.
I am not known for my wittyness.
All right.
I'm actually known for nothing.
What about your roommate?
My roommate is.
No, my roommate is not of witty banter.
I'm not giving him that option.
He tried to get.
He, he, he tried to, uh, say that he was going to sponsor us for a conference.
Playing in a hotel and it turned out to be the, uh,
what is it?
Was it called?
The, the rocket city fur meat in, uh, Huntsville, Alabama,
where, uh, he, he is from Alabama and I live there.
So, there's a little running joke there because, uh, well, in downtown San Jose this weekend,
there was a furry convention.
So, everyone was furied up and there was restaurants offering free drinks for furries.
It was quite interesting.
I would like to go spend some time in Huntsville, but not at the furry con.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I, I have no interest in going to the furry con.
I guess.
Yeah.
I guess that's all we have for this week.
So, um, I'm sports.
And, uh, it will be signing out.
Yeah.
Uh, thanks.
Sorry for the roommate.
He forgot that Skype records.
Um, any of you will talk to you next time.
Thank you for listening to Half the Public Radio.
HPR is sponsored by tarot.net.
So, head on over to C-A-R-O dot E-C for all of us here.
Thank you.
