Episode: 137
Title: HPR0137: July UCLUG Meeting
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0137/hpr0137.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 12:25:59

---

Manawa no. Manawa no. Manawa no. Manawa no. Manawa no. Manawa no. Manawa no. Manawa no.
All right, welcome to the Upstate Carolina Linux user group. I'm Jay. So I'm going to be presenting the
the the bash scripting for newbies part five. This is a little more than newbie-ish because we've already
discussed many things. So I'm just kind of building upon what we've already learned. But that doesn't
mean that all you've been here. In fact, half of you have not been here before. So at least that I
recognize. And this is great. Glad to have you all with us. I know we've got some visitors from
Columbia, right? Are you here for a specific reason or just a visit? Okay, great. Great to have you
here. Anyone else from out of town? All right, I'll be here all night. So okay, so let's pick up
where we left it off and we were no one frying Shakespeare after frying back in. So let me teach
you a new little filter program utility. You know, we start off with the shabang mid bash that in case
the rest of it's going to be interpreted by Shell. And this little program it reads the head of
Hamlet, free act free scene one, which head, if you don't give any options otherwise, we'll do the
first ten lines. They head up the bottom, of course. Then I print echo for blank line. Then I'm
going to do the head again and then I'm going to pipe it, send the output of head, the input of
fold, folds a new program, a new filter that we're going to be doing and then I'm going to show you.
What fold does is it at the, at the width that you give it, it chops it off, puts it on the next line.
Back to the swimming, it records basically. It's a line wrapper. You can give it the double dash width,
it was 40. And with a lot of new programs, it has two different formats. You can use the
dash W in this single little letter or you can use a double dash with a word. For documentation
purposes, this is better for bash golf. This is less characters, less strokes. So you'll see it
both ways. With this, for most programs, you can combine this the dash single character options.
If I understand what I'm saying, if fold head like an i in a d in a t in an h option,
and I just have a single one, single a dash here, then that would give me all five of these options
with the h having a parameter for it. That's not what I'm doing here, I'm using the double dash
with the word width. Can I just give these everyone? No, okay. So what this will do is,
you know, print out the tin, lines, send it to standard apps, fold it, read it, read it as standard
in and chop it off with calm 40 with 40. Then I'll print another new line. I'll do a head of
family again for tin lines and send that to another program called format. What that does is
similar to fold, where fold takes and just chop stuff and wraps it to the next line.
Format actually takes it to a word boundary and nicely wraps it and brings the next line up
and then formats that and continues formatting that way. Does that make sense? It would make more
sense if I showed it to you. So let me execute this right quick. And I'll do that by doing this.
So you're right here. If you remember, this first part is just the top tin lines of
Hamletack through C1. And this is calm 40. So you see what fold did. Is it chopped off
question to be questio, including in colon on the next line? Then the next line I did,
whether it's another in the mind, just stuff up and then puts bar on the next line. This links
narrows of the outrageous fort and then ood on the next line. So you see it just wrapped it and
chopped it off and wrapped it. Makes sense. Now format, which is what I use on practically
daily basis because I have a little, I use them and so you can use any, you can send a line or
block or an entire file through any of the program like a filter. And I usually send it to
format. So I say, you know, my pages said if I go and you know, I've been typing in a wrap
around, okay, let's update, type it to format and it makes it look nicer. So what it does is it
took the word to be or not to be that as the and then took question put on the next line and
then brought up the other line and brought it up, whether it's as no look in the and you see it's
right there. Mind would go over here, you can find some of the slings nearest and my other
explaining it to you, you got it, right? Makes sense. So whenever I was writing this little program
to do format and last month we did paste where you could take a file and another file on you could
put it right beside my side, I thought, hey, do you know what we could do is we could make,
so take a text file and make it like newsprint so you have two columns, right? Not a lot of
usefulness to it but I thought it'd be cool. So I wrote this little program that is a little bit
that's that I got here if you want to pass around. So I'll see.
Okay, it's a long program, so let me just do a first couple lines.
Where is it? Okay, so I'll go ahead and print it. Start off, it's running bash, okay?
I've got a comment, this is just to tell me what this program does and makes the file read like a
newspaper and upwards in two columns. This is the things I'm introducing today.
A comment from you to do at a later point in favor one of make this a more improved program,
which is about, you know, I need to read newsprint like articles, articles, right?
So, okay, first thing I do is I take a variable called debug and I set it to either true or false.
I come in and out the false because I don't want to do false right now, but right now I do want to use
debug and it's just something that I created called debug and I'm setting it to true.
Actually, I'm going to do the next 10 bars. All right, so we're
going to run it and see what it does. Let me do that. Let me run it and see what it does.
So, fine, give it. Or would you rather go through it and know what it does and then say, hey,
it did it. Or would you rather see what it does and then analyze it that way?
I can't wait. Go ahead and run it. All right.
It's print. Okay, what's the founding?
Hamlet, 3.01. What is the number of columns on this screen? Well, let's see, I think it's
probably an 80 column screen. I know it's not, but I'm going to say that. What is the number
of lines on the screen? Let's say 30. And there we go. Hot dog. Well, that's not perfect.
This should be over here, but it's close enough, right? That's what we need to debug later on,
and I'm not going to worry about it. So, you see what it did? To be enough to be that is the
question, whether it does not begin, although I just have a few things near arrows of
average fortune level. The undiscovered country from whose bore no traveler returns,
puzzles the will and makes the rather, makes us rather bear those eels. So, you got one of them,
a little, right? That took the file. I made it smaller. I chopped it off a bit in here,
and paced those together. All right? Is that cool or what? Is that awesome? Is everyone going to
use this program now if they have a printout of it? No, Jayce, you're fooling yourself. Okay,
so, the first line we did, if I've got a parameter, if I don't have a parameter, right? Because if
number one is the first parameter, or two, the program that I give it, if this is nothing,
then I need to ask, here's a new program called read. What read does is it asks, it prompts you,
and puts into a variable, what you give it. So, you saw me run the x, run it and say,
what is the font? It asks me, what is the font name, and I typed it in hand, what the three don't want.
The dash p is the prompt, right here, the prompt parameter. So, you can give it a prompt.
Or otherwise, you don't have to have read the dash p in there, and it'll just,
you can just type in something whenever it stops, right? So, I'm going to, what I put in is put it to the,
variable that I call it, file. And notice this does not start with fellowship, right? This is a
parameter that I'm initializing, but I'm not initializing, but I put that in sign to clear, okay?
So, now, what happens if I, you see, that's what happens if, if dash type 1 is nothing, is empty,
right? Because then that would match right here. What if I did it? What would happen then?
Anyone? First argument. First argument, so, if I read run this program,
can I give it an argument? Let's say, hand out the free one without the g,
and ask columns, the number of lines, does, and then it does, right? So, so this time,
y'all are sending one gets put into file, right? Oh, y'all have a printout, right?
So, what that name is, I did it, and put it in the file in both cases, right? Any questions so far?
Now, this is a new session, if you're new to shell scripting in any form, and you do this,
doesn't make sense. Tell me, okay? Okay. Now, then we need to verify the file isn't going to do
later on. All right. Now, here's something new that we haven't learned yet in the shell
scripting sessions, and that is the back quotes for the dollar sign print print, all right? So,
what does that do? Does anyone know? Any newbies know what this does? Any newbies? Okay. Any newbies
to shell script? Do you have any idea what it might do? Okay. Anyone else? Okay. Well, what it does
is, whatever you have inside the back quotes, it will execute that, and the standard out of that,
yet the output of that will be put into whatever you use. I mean, it'll be put in its place,
as substitute, command substitution, yes, that's what it's called. Thank you. Thank you, Rick.
So, like, what I did right here is, I've got this WC-style shell file, right?
So, what this would do is, this would do a word count and count the number of lines for file,
right? Which is assigned up here, either from the command line or whenever it's prompting me.
So, this would do a, it would count the number of lines in this file, and instead of
and it would substitute that number into lines and just for file, right? Does that make sense?
Well, turns out that the WC command would give it a file as one of the parameters. It also puts the
file name in there. That's not what I wanted. So, I said, nope, that's not what I wanted. Alternatively,
you could use the cats, cat the file, type it's WC with dash yellow, and that'll give you what you want.
But I didn't like that for whatever reason, and then here's another command substitution in
bash, is the dollar sign print for in. It does the same thing as the backwards, but Z1,
know why you would not use it or what you would use the backwards, and not everything.
Yeah, I guess it's good.
Yeah, what do you think explained for the WC?
I just know that most of the problems I've ever had with that story, I'm going to do the escape.
Yeah, you've got a single question, double question, better, or a backslash point, that I can't think of the top of my head,
but I imagine this probably, yes. Like if you have something in your, in what you're trying to do,
the head of that quote, that you have a problem with that, yeah, something.
Any other, anyone think of any other reason? Why you'd use the dash and print for in instead of the backslash?
No, no, no. What's that? Non-forging. Non-forging, isn't?
I didn't know that, that's all I saw. It's non-forging, I didn't know that. That's cool.
Well, that's a good reason to use it. See, you know, you teach, and you learn too,
how about that? That's cool. Well, what were you going to say?
Well, anyone else have any other reason? Before I review my reason?
That's a good reason I didn't realize. Anyone else?
All right, well, with this, this sort of non-petru you can, you can nest. So you could put,
you know, if you don't know what file is, you could, you could say,
a dorshan print, echo file print, and the output of that would be file, which, you know,
that's kind of dumb to do it here, but you see what I'm saying? You can do that inside of this
dorshan print print, and you can nest more dorshan print prints inside of it. If you do it with this,
the back tick, it'll go to the first back tick it sees and do that part, but then the next part,
it thinks it's a command, and then the next part is it's up the next queue. So you can't nest them,
or if you do, you have to do multiple variables or something else.
Now, the back ticks are bash, I'm sorry, they're bored, they are inherited from bored. So if you're
trying to get something that lives on most platforms, then you're going to want to use this non-petru,
but bash is also not a lot of platforms. So if you can use it this way, and especially since it's
non-forking, I don't know how you're going to have to ask Trace about it.
All right, thanks a lot. I just thank you. Yeah, thanks a lot, Eric.
All right, so I'm going to now introduce things. Does everyone understand then?
It means substitution. Got it? Cool. All right, so now redirecting. Last month, we
discussed sim to an output using the greater than symbol. Now, using the less than symbol, which is
its complement, you can get filed to be the input of this. So it's essentially the same as this.
You see, I got WC-Deschel-Deschel file, whereas this one is doing WC-Deschel less than
Deschel file. This is the standard input gets sent to here, and it prints out. So, whereas this one
will give me the number of lines and finally, this one will just give me the number of lines,
because it doesn't know what the file name is, because it's standard in as far as it cares.
Same with this one. Make sense?
Redirect standard in? Is there any advantage to using their redirect in rather than
catting and piping it? Is there perhaps a working issue when you use the pipe? Is it actually
important that it doesn't do it with the pipe? Yeah, I mean, you've got a program running here.
You send it to the standard input, whereas this, you're just, I don't know, but if you're writing
BASH or Shell scripts, you're not interested in speed, necessarily. So you should write a man
and optimize it. You can add it in the batch. Yeah, that's the way it's up with that idea.
It's that for all, right? All right, so, all right.
Everybody got it? Moving on. So now, we got, if test x-true equals x-dosh-end-y-bug, if you
remember, dosh-end-y-bug is set up here. So, if the debug is true, if these two are the same,
then this returns a true, which is what?
Anyone? That'd be a rule. A boolean, which is, the return by from test is zero,
right? Because that means zero errors. Zero errors, right? All right, so now, notice,
did I discuss this also one time, the difference between the double bracket test and the single bracket
test? Is everyone not? Does everyone care? You have an opinion one way or the other.
Okay, thank you. Yes, I have an opinion. I'm going to share it. The single bracket test
is the test program, which is in your bin directory, your binator, and so this will fork test
and test will run this. Whereas, the double bracket is a bash built-in forks. I don't think it
forks, so it's going to be, because the built-in bash is going to be running for the faster.
The one thing you've got to be aware of is that these two are slightly different,
I think, if I remember correctly. So, whereas, this one understands that equal to the
is equal to, it also understands that double equal to the is equal to, right? And instead of
the equal meaning assigned to the, so, okay, so that's the other test, the bash built-in test.
All right, so if debug is true, then echo the file, file has lines, lines, all right?
You understand why I've got the right system here? Now, you know, okay, last month,
if you asked, you understand the reason why? Well, yeah, it's on one. See, now right here, I've got,
well, later on, I'm going to be using a variable called line, lines. If I use a doll of sun lines
by reading it, I'm not sure whether I'm going to have a value of lines with the underscore file
of ended to the end of, or whether it's going to do lines couple. So, now that I've got braces
around it, I know for sure which one is going to be, and so does interpreter. So, I've got this
first line in the file, and file has lines file lines, all right? Cool, everybody cool?
All right, I'm lazy, I just didn't want to type what is the number of, three times. So, I just
put, I just create a variable that says, what is the number of, right? Just a variable. Now, if test
x equals columns x, this is one of the other ways to do test, and I understand I'm doing this
with multiple ways that you'll see it. So, some people, for test, some people, for double rackets,
some people, for single rackets, this is the same as this one, this is the built-in test,
all right? Test will fork, and then do its test. Now, the difference you need, you also need to be
aware of it as double rackets, that expects double rackets at the end, single rackets expect
single rackets at the end, test doesn't have anything out there. As far as I know,
the batches are not like any strings, so why do you use your x there? I mean, not i-design,
it's just a little time, it's great. You can't, you can do that. However, if you talk about using the
dash z option to test, yeah, no, you can do, you can say, if you put, yeah, and say, you can
do the test that way, you can have to throw an x per character at the end of the variables.
Oh, okay. Well, I've always seen this hack, and it's kind of a good thing, because that way,
I mean, if that works, that works, right? I've always understood that x could go if it was a new one,
so I was missing. Well, the thing is, is it with the variable above the other side,
if the numbers were to be correctly? Yes, yeah, if columns, if I didn't have the x here,
and columns were on sign, then this would be a test quote, equals, ring equals, no, you know,
I'd say, where's the, you know, where's the, it equals, expects the second offering. So,
the right one, and I think that, I think the actual code is protecting it's that. If you were to,
if you were to be the other way, and just not code it, and just like, yeah, like, look at that.
Oh, okay. Okay. Well, to do that, by all means, if, if I did it here, you mean,
that's if the x off, yeah, that would, that would definitely, if the, you know, it's not going to sign
ever, then this would fail, because equals, expects a right and left, and this is never going to
sign, there's nothing there. So, you're saying the quote would take, but not necessarily the right,
right, if we don't have it, but it's around it, then it won't get to the set. Oh, yeah. Okay.
I just, I just do it all the time anyway. It's a hack that you say, you mean you don't
initialize all your variables? Well, I'm saying, just sometimes you use environment variables,
and you go on a different distribution, then environment variables, let me close,
take it in there, but okay. All right. So, where am I at? My right here, what, okay, test,
columns, then echo, what, what is the number of columns on this screen? And then I didn't put
it in, I didn't put this in quotes, and I put a dash in. So, you want to know what the dash
into echo means? Yes, sir, not pretty good. It does not. I'm going to do a line at the end. So,
then this part, it's done immediately. So, but in, I commented that out, and then add this
single quote, space, single quote. Does anyone know why I did that? What on earth am I thinking? What,
Jason? What's wrong with you? Yes, get you to space at the end of the line. There you go.
Exactly right. It gives you a new space. Now, see, this is using the echo with a dash in
and something, and then a read comes, is essentially the same as read with a dash prompt, right?
It's just a different way of going. You'll see it, by the way. All right. So, then I did the same
thing here. Test lines is equal to x, and there I used the double equals for test. So, test,
do you understand the new things? Okay. So, anyway, read prompt, what is the number of lines on
the screen, puts it into lines, puts some columns. Okay. Now, it got the FD bug, and I'll wait a
second. Wait a second, James, you say. Up here, but before, I've got if test x, true equals x,
don't send you bug for my test. Now, right here, I've got if just debug. Now, what am I doing here?
Is anyone on? Why am I doing it differently here and here?
Now, one, all right. So, if you remember, at the beginning, debug, I said true. Turns out,
truth is a program. Truth is a program that returns zero, as it's, as it's an exit code,
which means no air, right? True returns. True. No air. Falls, I'm the other hand, is another program,
is complement, that correctly exits one, and correctly exits error. Does that make sense?
So, if I were to set debug to false, if false, which would be one, if would skip here, right?
So, I'm just using the true and false program, and just whether it's true, if it's true,
then I echo call equals columns, lib equals lib lines, just for debug purposes, right? Does that make sense?
If I lost, can I? Yeah, whatever. What? Very much so.
Yeah, and I'm half on it. Okay, all right. Did you get it from now?
Yeah, I did, I did. Okay. All right, it's coming down to what you like to follow me in.
All right, that's a future thing I thought about, but I'm just going to do it too.
You know, whatever you want to do, write a program, say, hey, wouldn't it be cool if this is that,
Hillary? So, I'm just going to put that into your later. Not like I'm going to have for this way after,
you know, I'm going with this session. All right, so now I've got here, I'm setting with, based on,
I'm sorry, once it comes to be two. All right, so it's just a very good set. Otherwise, I would,
I was going to prop the user, how many do you want them to be want to come? So, if you wanted a
free column, newsprint, all right? Okay, so now I'm using, I'm creating a variable called width,
and I'm setting it to, when I, what is all this? Has anybody seen any of this stuff before?
You've got the dollar sign, print, print. All right, so you would think that where I just taught you
that dollar sign, print, print is to substitute the command, put it into there. This one's different,
dollar sign, print, print does mathematical calculations. So, I'm putting in columns divided by
one columns minus two. Is that going to be integer, based? Okay, yeah. Yes, yes,
interesting. I think because there's some confusion, this is my subposition, I have no basis for
factfulness, but I'm guessing that because dollar sign, print means command substitution,
that they also add this dollar sign bracket. So, dollar sign bracket does the same thing. So,
if you want to do math, as in the shell, you just use either dollar sign, print, print, print,
and dollar sign bracket. And again, like I said, in your math, it's basically what you
brought you from used to see. All right, so next line, I've got dollar sign debug, and
echo call with equals dollar sign with, wait a second, ampersand ampersand is new.
Even if I have an idea what ampersand ampersand does, having looked at something similar to this
nullifying languages perhaps, or know what the word ampersand is usually substitute to mean
logically, and it's an amp, that's right. So, this is a logical amp. What did you say?
Both have to be true. No, that's not right. So, does everyone understand what a
logical amp is? So, I need to explain that. Newbies.
You want me to explain? Okay, a logical amp, a logical amp takes two things, right?
True, it's a true table. Should I do a true table? Boy, you can call up obviously.
True and false. This is the way I write it. If you want to understand.
True and false.
All right, so true and true is true, exactly. True and false is false, right?
False and true is false. False and false. It's also false. So, this is your true table.
So, you have two things, true and false. Now, I like C and other programming languages that are
based upon C, and I don't know, there's tons of languages that do this. The
four ampersand is a short circuit. Do you know what that might mean? If the first
command executes through the second command. Right, and only if the first command then takes
keeps true. Because only when you have, well, if the first command returns false,
you automatically have the answer. There's no sense to build the second half, right?
No sense to do in the second half. So, that's the short circuit. If the first command is false,
just go on. Don't do the rest of the line. The first one's true, then you need to check that the
second one is true or false. Okay. So, what I've got here is debug, which is true or false,
that I've set up in the beginning. True. Now, I need to test the second half. I can call
what it equals with. You'll see this as a little hack. People shortcut this to, so they
don't have to do the if-then-else, if-then-fating stuff. It's just a short hand for the most part.
You got to be careful though. It's not exactly the same as if-then-else. If you use the complement
to the same thing, and it is the type type, which is logical or. So, and the worst is the opposite.
And this is or. So, the true and false, true and false, and true or true is true, true or false is true,
false or true, it's true, false or false is false. Does that make sense to everyone? Does anyone
understand why that is? Like that? Okay. I have a shirt on, or I have pants on. True or false?
True. I have a hat on, or I have pants on. True. That's this one.
I've reversed that. I have a hat on and a watch on, false, not or or a watch on. I have either
pants, I'm sorry, I have either a hat or a watch on, false, right? Make sense? Okay, so that's
or it's also. It's also short-circuited. If the first item is true, it knows that-it knows the
answer to true, so it just skips. And if the first answer is false, it checks the second answer
for true, okay? In the case of the shell, it executes it, all right? Everybody cool?
Didn't know you were going to be learning about bullion logic. Okay, so, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
If you bug and echo creating file tips, this is just a debug information. How was it going time?
Oh, okay, time's tough. But I'll just show you the formats with width, file to file about 10, right?
So you saw me use format earlier. I said to the width that I say, that I say here, but it prompts
me to put in, and then I take my hand left, file, and then I put that to an output file of
handlet.10, right? Do you make sense? All right, we'll pick up here next month. Any questions
with what becomes a third sub-art? Am I boring everyone in tears?
Send an email to alerts this way, how do you fix the cash gain here? It's my incredibly
filthy script, and you just want whatever answer. Well, we can do that at the end, like, because I'm
probably putting it. Hey, real quick, what does it buy? I form that, so it brings
up to box that email for show session. All right, so we got here. Now we do a
Then we do just the first line or the whole file, the first couple lines, so it won't crack.
This middle, the paragraph middle, we'll say the top line, so let's do something.
In presses.
It's going to let it, it's going to let it.
It's going to let it.
So let's see.
Format it as 10 with 10 with it.
Okay, cooling.
10, 20.
Pipery-2.
Format with 10.
And then we're going to patient it.
In fact, you want to just one line.
And then you do a bang bang.
And it does dot.
And that's the format of 20.
Okay.
And then you say you're done here.
Oh, I want this up here, so you join it.
And then you do a last.
And I think that's it.
So you just do the bang bang.
And put the dot.
Yes.
Bang bang.
Bang bang is quicker than the column dot.
Bang for the thin golf.
Oh, we're on top of it.
A golf?
Yes.
The other day, talking to the right hand, it's on a system.
Didn't have that.
And I thought I was going to die.
Wrong.
And so I thought of them.
I hadn't used it in a while.
But I wanted to insert both.
And as soon as I hit any of the arrow keys and move around,
I mean, how do they insert both?
Yeah.
I mean, that hasn't happened previously.
Is it Vim?
Or is it Vi?
Oh, it could have been Vi.
Okay.
Vi did not understand arrow keys really.
And it Vim is in Vi mode.
Yeah.
I don't believe it understands arrow keys.
But it's strictly Vi.
You know how to move around elsewise.
If you put your right hand on the home road, J and K is down and up.
Left is H. Right is L.
Okay.
So, yeah, I'm going to pop up.
I'm going to have to use left, left, left.
Oh, it would have been.
It would have been.
It was on a devian system.
I could have had it.
I was actually configuring the network.
So, I could have to use it.
Mark me off.
No, I'm just looking at what the system is.
I'm just looking at what the system is.
I'm just looking at what the system is.
I'm just looking at what the system is.
Yeah, that's how I'm going to make an audience.
All right.
Thank you for your time.
And we are going to just get it to our...
Does anyone have any announcements that they'd like to make?
Yes.
Yes.
Good.
A couple of things.
I have a collection of 20 to 30 videos out of my cart.
And right now, Jeremy is the only person who is volunteering
to convert them from VHS to Audtheora or something else.
If anyone wants to do that, this is for...
For Ben and Charlie, he's picked his account.
They're laying around the TV and the VCR to their meeting right now.
And they should be...
And then they're already here in the last conversation.
There's a need to do that.
The free line SPC project has a ticket tracking system now.
And a couple of things that we're doing with this.
One is we're tracking internal things that need to be done.
The second is...
Because we interface with so many nonprofits,
they are asking us for help with various things.
For instance, we've got one group who wants a lab setup.
We've got another group who wants essentially some CRM stuff.
So if you're interested in that,
you want to take a look at the stuff that's available out there.
There's not much right now.
But it's going to start populating over this week.
And so if you want to get involved with something really short this week,
we can get your access to that.
You'll just send a message to the list.
I'll probably send a link to the ticket tracking system.
It's not in the morning.
I have them.
Great.
You want us to pay announcements?
Okay.
Well, according to my little email that I sent a while back,
it looks like tonight, our hotness lightning talks.
What's that?
Hotness lightning sessions.
It's a bit of a parachute over here.
That's hot.
So I had this idea of someone saying,
I like to see this.
I don't know.
I like to see that.
Well, hey.
Let's just add a lightning round.
Show a 10 minute something that you like.
That's your hotness on your machine right now.
And so some of the couple of people said,
all right, I'll bring my thing and I'll show my thing off.
That didn't sound right.
So, here we go.
Looks like it's on.
If you aren't there, use that up.
I'll go last.
Hopefully it'll get a little darker.
Let me see if you want to move.
So whenever it is in order in the email,
I just have to sit there.
Back your power.
Did you give up on the oil PC?
No, it's just...
I've never been able to display it.
I don't have...
There's no VGA out.
On it.
But I thought we were doing...
Thanks for your show.
Yes, but the resolution on that is much more...
I'm sorry.
The resolution on that is much more than that one is.
So whereas that's only 600.
The OPC is some...
I'm godly 12-85.
You know, it's a...
Yeah.
For display this.
But, you know, it's weird because it's such a small screen.
The thing is, it's so compact.
You sit up here, you...
Well, I'm going to just read back to the retardant, but I wouldn't do it.
Okay.
But yeah, it's so small that the point is...
I don't know why that's the thing.
I'm going to look something accidently.
The projector only does 800x600.
So if I were to do that...
Lane.
I would have to scroll to look at the bottom and the top and...
Yeah.
You could be a different person.
You need one.
I got a free, I got birthday.
You'll be super welcome.
I got a video control panel up, so I can get you three.
That'd be great.
I mean, this is a medium.
And we appreciate the blending in a spa, but they had to use it today on a session or...
or their sales, right?
So, yeah.
If you want to create it from now on...
Fantastic.
What'd you show them as well?
I have a little leftover.
Kill lines.
I'm sorry, what did you say?
I got...
I've had a nice little graphic, I think you're supposed to do that.
Wow, that's really bizarre.
Yeah, that's fine.
If you can see it's real small.
I think that graphic may be larger than the screen, so it's not open.
Yeah.
Give me a second, just over.
Yeah.
I was about what are you going to do with the abstracts and the P.F. sense that we set up at work?
I don't know.
You're in the wild wind?
Yeah.
It's real.
Yeah.
David.
You sure you cut up this day?
I was going to do a lot of work.
Maybe.
Probably set up at work here over the past year.
Actually, a lot of open source went from a Cisco picks router, put a P.F. sense box,
and put one in a branch in a rally.
I don't know who knows what supposed to be sort of a newbie thing,
but a P.F. sense is an open source router firewall package,
and I found it to be well had above what we had with the picks,
that as far as ease of use and configuration,
but we put that in there, and it started really well.
And then we said, well, we had some problems with our old phone system,
and so we got Cisco to quote several other local carriers to quote,
and one guy came and quoted a tricks box.
I said, hey, I can do that.
And we put a tricks box, which is Asterix, just in a wrapper.
And now sort of combining everything together to the graphic,
I can't show you what it's bigger than the screen shows everything
than our office links together, but in rally, we've got P.F. sense and tricks box,
and we've got P.F. sense and tricks box and two buildings.
They're all communicating with each other.
Some of those may be something you all have for years,
but for us, it was great to get three digit dialing between branch locations
or call a call comes under Dremel.
They need to sell as one who's in Raleigh.
We just transfer the call and it goes out.
P.F. sense route sits on its own T1.
So it's just, you know, it's my hotness, and it all works,
and it's all been, you know, what we Cisco quoted, $9,000.
I think we've got a balance to build a bit of a $15,000,
and most of that's just an own hardware,
and you know, the rest of the operating system
or the programming is all free open source.
You should get in now.
No, we've got about 15,000 in the end of the year.
We're talking about, I'm sorry, 15, 100, you're right.
1,500.
We've got a shoe.
That's my plate.
We have, total, we have about 60 hand sets.
They were about $100 piece on the eBay.
So that's $6,000 right there.
We've got three servers, and we're about $15,000.
So that's another port.
Yeah, so we're about in about $16,000 on the thing.
That is a good number.
What kind of energy is that?
How about $16,000?
Because he does a huge string of hands.
That's just fine.
Yeah, that's just fine.
The polycom 501 is the right amount of money.
But, you know, all total, you know,
I figure it costs a quarter of what we would all afford.
It's just hiring you that, hiring you now.
But maybe a special audience who are interested in your own product.
I just thought we got a, you know,
we went digium first, then.
This light is so much.
The other thing is the other thing.
Let's hang them up.
They want just a plain T1 card.
Then the locations, and they come straight,
straight AT&T comes out.
They plug it in.
And, you know, the way it runs.
Okay, is that a point to pointer?
Or is it an Internet?
It's just an Internet on, kind of,
it's not even the app.
And I apologize.
I've had a long day.
And at NPLS, we don't even have an NPLS circuit.
But we are both on delta-com and pre-war modeling.
So the latency of the jitter and all that.
It's no worse than the next L-phones that they were using before this came up.
Most of the time, it's way better.
So it is a pretty nice thing.
This is the Tricks box.
I've BP then into our office.
And this is the Tricks box.
And it's a, like I said,
it's just a wrapper for a Strix and some of the other other stuff that's out there.
Flash-off, flash-off or your panel.
All sorts of other open-source programs.
There's a wrapper conveniently in this.
You're going to go into the main engine,
or the useful thing that I've used most of the time,
is just a free PBX portion of it.
Let's say sugar syrup.
Yeah, it's got sugar package them with them.
Oh, wow.
One of the interesting things is, from sugar,
you can have it set up so that you can add a number of,
connect that number to your investment.
We don't use, will they integrate it?
Yes, it does.
Yes, wait a minute.
So you pick up your phone and you dial it and it goes to your phone?
No, you put it on.
You put it on.
That's all it is.
Okay.
I think your friends start trying this.
Well, that's awesome.
I can pick up my phone and listen to it.
Okay, but that's okay.
So go to the web interface.
I'll do that surprise.
And it'll dial you.
It'll dial you.
And you have that number.
It should really dial you.
It'll dial you.
That's cool.
That's all right.
We don't use it, but we don't use sugar,
but there's also the way the inbound calls can pop up contact information.
Oh, nice.
And all of that is recorded in CRM that hate this person called at this time.
So your CRM records are more likely to be complete.
I went with Tricksbox because I'm the only technical person in the building.
And having a web-based thing that somebody else would have passed for too.
Most of it's just checkbox and see what's happening.
So when you go into the patient middle father.
Well, yeah.
Well, in theory, but that was my big reason is,
if I go anywhere, hopefully somebody can follow some instructions.
Even if I'm talking through whatever the phone,
but the free ppx is the main configuration portion of it.
That's hot.
You guys just do a straight cut over.
Did you demo for a while?
True.
Put a one thumb or two hands up.
The one and one corner of the building, one together.
So you guys need to pop it each other.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then, you know, we...
And then it happened real quick after that.
We had a Merle and Glenn.
That was not it.
And we got to where just finding used words and different things.
But it was becoming a hard break just to keep on something running.
So we were pushed into it.
You mentioned you have the research where this has been done.
Cluster, what's the answer?
There's one.
The one with the rally, one agreeable.
And you can't fail over multiple registrations.
But I haven't really gotten ahead of me.
I'm probably off to, but they're just...
We have a power figure.
Yeah.
I guess that's what we just call manager.
Yeah.
We didn't have clusters.
Now, we know of your problem.
If you lose power and call this client certain single building,
how are they going to register?
Well, because, presumably, if...
You can lose power to the server without using loads of power to a building.
You can use the power supply in the unit.
You can lose hard drives in the unit.
You can lose all kind of things.
Yeah.
Well, the pipeline...
Oh, we have.
It's not that.
It's all back.
We've got a spare box sitting there ready.
We turned it on.
It was more of a question of probably actually.
Yeah, but I've just got to do it.
Iron armor is much more hard for you.
Yeah.
Those are really a lot of those more.
Like, doesn't support for them.
So you're okay with that.
Yeah.
That's a trick, Sam.
Tricks Boxer.
Can't be cluster.
Real hell out there.
The biggest thing I've seen is that I support 50,000 of that.
There were clusters that will support that.
They'll support any of the 50,000.
They're doing an entire development department.
Multiple size.
All across the country.
Instead, it will find that it will find that it will be the exact.
For the same thing.
Thank you.
Something like that.
Oh.
And then, like our phones can.
If one goes down, we can very quickly on phone, change the registration to the other office.
Right.
I don't like that.
30 phones in the building.
Of those, only five are really important.
Sometimes I scramble when I have to.
But I had a much more impressive uptime.
Until it came up.
AT&T has been digging holes in front of our building.
And I didn't realize.
Well, I got that from a vacation.
I said, phones are down.
So the first thing I did was reboot.
But then I actually looked out and went into them.
There's AT&T.
And they had to cut the line.
So I was uptime.
Like 58 days before this.
And that was just for a upgrade.
But it's been up since we put it up.
I don't know.
But all you all want to see on.
From our perspective, the stuff.
And work was then good.
The ability of transfer calls outside the building.
And by me following me for the sales.
And they got one number now.
They can go out and bring their home.
Their mobile phone.
Everywhere they may be all at once.
So we're catching a lot more calls on first try.
Did it bother you all back?
Yeah.
And you've been a voice of them.
You know, if you want to go to the voice of them.
Or if you'd like to try another number.
Go to the sector.
You can do all that.
Did you use any of this before you did this?
No.
Not at all.
So I mean, that's where testament.
But if I can do it.
It's really easy.
And our asterisk that where I were.
If there's voicemail left for you.
It gets put into a way from e-mail to.
And you can listen to your voicemail from your computer.
If your 10 says not below.
And you're going to go.
Yeah.
There's a.
There's supposedly a package that's come out in the past.
Six to nine months.
Attempts to detect the voice.
Recording.
Detects.
And it'll send the text along with the way of filing any mail.
So you don't necessarily have to listen to the voicemail.
Read it.
I've heard it makes room here.
Some people say it.
It's about 100% accuracy.
Some people say it.
But it does set a meter.
But does it understand so much?
Does it understand so much?
That may be an incident.
But without getting into a lot of more technical.
It's been.
There's very, very various voice protocols.
There are eight data protocols to get a voice or IP call to you.
And inside the office that's sent from the server to the handset.
Office to office.
It's IADX between the servers.
But one of the neat things that we did.
DigiMates.
A lot of IADX adaptor.
Little blue.
IACC.
They call it.
And you just play analog code into it.
You would play another end into an internet cable.
And you'd got a phone wherever you are in the world that comes back.
That comes back to our server.
And we had some guys go to a conference in Mexico.
And we just gave them $10 analog phone and a Mac.
And in their hotel room.
I just like to write in.
I just like to write in.
And I like to write in.
I like to write in.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to write.
I like to warm up.
I like to warm up.
I like to warm up.
I like to warm up.
I like to warm up.
We are not cozy.
We are not cozy.
We are not cozy.
We were not cozy.
We were not cozy.
We were not cozy.
We are not cozy.
We were not cozy.
we were good.
We were good.
We were like good
We were like good.
We were like good.
We were like good.
We were not cozy.
We were like good.
We were like good.
We were like good.
We were like good.
We were like good.
We were like good.
It's a sort of funnel and in the past year, but we've thrown together, cooked together.
The Griebel land up there at the top, you got the asterisk server just hanging out at the
land. The big pf-cent spots, that's our Griebel one, just plants far out on the
plants bigger, but we've got four nicks in it. Nick two goes to the DMZ, Nick three.
Like I said, we haven't actually have two circuits come in. This is something we couldn't do with the pigs.
It's depending on where we want our traffic to go, we route it on one T1 or the other.
I've got one T1 that is only for the BPM between locations.
So with any void traffic for our AS400 traffic between the two locations,
the pf-cent sends it on, it sends a little pie from it. That's all it's on it.
When we didn't do that, we didn't have call-quality problems.
Some nice goes to sportsoistraided.com or something, the calls are dropped.
They're crackled, but once we put it on its own circuit, we wanted the bundled circuits.
Have three, but it works better just to sport them.
Can you QOS, don't take it as soon as it's going to happen?
Not without going to the MPLS, with our carrier, we can keep the QOS all day long in building,
but it's in the hits of the T1.
They don't come, they just rip, so it doesn't even happen.
Yeah, they got it about the time we came up, but we really haven't had the reason to go to it.
The call-quality is really pretty good.
Start with the damage there.
What does MPLS stand for?
We'll go to the program later as well, later.
But that's sort of the summary I have to think about getting questions.
Just grab your server hardware to run PFCNs and run your app.
PFCNs is running on $60 IDM in advance.
We broke up in that business that we bought from the FLPC program.
They had a bunch of donated from Alcoa, and we're two gigahertz, two gigahertz.
Two gigahertz, one giga memory.
Do you feel bad for taking those machines?
No, we don't.
No, I don't know if you follow them.
I don't know if they stole them.
I don't know if you feel bad for it.
I don't know how I'm worried.
Two gigahertz, two gigahertz.
Or maybe three.
And we don't ever max them out.
We don't maybe 30% process or look highest of everything.
I asked her a trick box and read, as far as the Dell 2650,
which ended up being a real bad, bad, bad choice.
The interrupts in the Dell bios are reconfigured in just certain,
you only have certain choices for the interrupts.
And you don't have a lot of flexibility in re-assigning them.
And they just give you little patterns.
75912 for your forward biosomery.
You toggle it and flips them around a little bit.
But I believe that has been the problem.
We've had the facts as tricks box can receive a fags needle to you.
And we were hitting probably about 95% success of that.
But every 5% would just be half a fags or the top or the bottom lines had all come up and just dropped.
And it only takes one order to be lost for that to work.
So can you give us an analog line?
Yeah, they've got analog cards.
And what we did is we just put our facts in the back of the analog and just stay that way.
Because we can't, the business is too competitive.
We can't lose an order.
You know, you've always got the camping trip advertised once we've never.
They would always fail on order or something for it.
But in Riley, for the tricks box, I bought the green box from a tonality.
They're pre-loaded, re-configured.
And I noticed in setting up that there's a lot of the higher bios interrupts here.
So you've got every choice in the world you can reassign.
You need the slot to have one interrupt.
All by itself, you can do that in no problems.
There was about $500 cheaper than that balance.
Done as good as the better.
And it's just a little, think you a little more, a high pool in case.
A little say to drive.
That's more or less a nutshell.
Great, thank you.
Thank you.
A little longer than that place.
How there's too little.
Next we got David.
Which David?
Which one signed up?
Oh.
That's a...
Come here.
How's you?
How's this?
No, I'm fine.
But you're just going to get in the D.E. because they...
Put it away on the D.E.
David, a phone, coupler, and or back that PC.
I'm fine.
I'll get out of here.
So you?
That's me.
All right, I'll show you something really cool.
But my brother neglected to bring his computer.
He was going to have the door installed.
If it's someone that brought a computer and wants the door not installed,
I'll show up a little bit.
But I'm going to talk through it.
Maybe I can find it.
Cobbler is a framework that essentially sets up pretty quickly a P.H.C. boot server.
And install over P.H.
You boot over P.C. and it starts install over the network.
And you can do a base install in under two minutes on D.E.C. hardware.
So, you know, by the time you've got your multiple CDs out,
or you've got a DVD and bread and DVD,
and selected your packages you'd already haven't done.
I'll talk about that.
It handles all the updates.
So right now, if you go and say you want to install synthets or a rail,
you grab this.
And so you grab, let's say, synthets 5 out of it,
because that you've already downloaded, it's taken in.
And it starts loading.
You get it all loaded and installed.
The first thing you do is dump that fly up there,
and have it update the entire machine.
With using Cobbler, it automatically is installing the updated packages
rather than installing the base packages.
So, when you roll the machine off,
it's already keeping your repositories in sync.
You run a front job that have it synced to repositories to keep the packages updated.
And then, it's installing the updated stuff.
So when you install a machine, it's updated right now out of the box.
And you can use Kickstarter to do this.
And River has it.
You can do it with Susa D.E.M.
and a few other distributions that aren't of Red Hat Centering.
I'm using it at work.
We're using it at FLPC.
And we're installing about six gates worth of data.
And it takes about 30 minutes on some really, really old hardware
to install a machine from nothing to everything.
And it's repeatable in your setting.
You can create users in your Kickstarter file.
You can go to the set and read past works.
You don't have to answer any questions.
It's going to install.
It's going to be repeatable.
It's going to be the same every time.
And you'll know that the machine set up the same way every time.
It's going to stand out and pass through someone else.
And that's Calder.
Any questions?
Awesome.
So, if you didn't say it's hot,
I wouldn't keep the caliber,
but you said it's not hot.
The Mac is real.
Is it peach carbon?
It'll push down on a different image based on Mac.
Yes.
You can have it push down different image based on Mac address,
based on IP address,
based upon the class of machine that's connected to it.
You can do interesting snippets like, for instance,
one of the ones I have detects if it's a VMware image.
Because there are some things that you want with VMware,
like you want certain kernel options that make sure your scheduling doesn't get.
Or your timing doesn't get screwed up.
Because when VMware is presenting that virtual CPU,
you're not giving each of the CPU tips.
So, your timing goes off pretty quickly.
And one of the ways you compensate for that is to put a kernel option in.
So, one of my cobble profiles checks to see if it's a VMware machine
that it's loading onto.
It's a VMware machine.
It gets that kernel option automatically to then.
So, the equals 10 to the clock.
I think it's actually 100 hertz or about 1 of the people.
And so, you can call set a lot of, yes.
And it has common known that the remote machine is a VMware.
It's looking at the hardware.
Because, essentially, it's moving up.
And it's sending data back to cobble or saying,
you're getting all of the sys long data that's coming across.
And you're getting deep messages coming across.
And sending that back to cobble.
So, cobble is looking at that.
And it's saying, oh, there are x number of drives.
I need to angle when it has three drives.
I can angle it this way and partition it this way.
Or, it's on VMware.
It has that VMware generic hardware.
I know that I have the x lines, because it's seeing all of that come across back to it.
Now, did you say the package updates give?
Are you distributed to everybody in sort of a bit torn sort of way?
I did say that.
But I don't know if I understand your question.
So, in the same way, the bit torn shares the file, the 8 file,
among different people.
It can look at all these other people's repository.
Yes.
They've downloaded and said, we've got what?
Gems is newer than friends is.
We've got gems.
And we'll check.
You can tell what repositories to look at.
And it will go out and check for updates constantly.
And it will grab those updates.
So that you have a look over repository for them.
And then, you can tell the machine to point to that repository
in addition to the distributions for repositories.
Or, you can have it just point to these updates.
You can have it just point to the distraders for repositories.
But it would be easy as you know it.
And you update existing machines on the network.
They might have a local notification.
I am.
Well, yes and no.
There is a component called Cone.
Cone.
Cone.
K-O-A-M.
Cone.
Okay.
Now, it's Cone.
And it will allow you to reinstall a machine.
So, if you have a machine up and you want to repurpose it,
it will handle reinstall from the command line.
You do Cone.
Tell it what profile you want to hit.
And it will automatically launch a reinstall.
Does Cone drop the user data?
It depends upon how it's set up.
And that can be a bad thing.
But at the same time, if you're converting a file server
with San attached storage to say a DNS server,
you know, the SAN would preserve the data and you wouldn't have access to that anymore.
But unless you have another machine mounted,
but the machine itself could easily take over the DNS responsibilities.
But to do what you're talking about,
there's a tool out called FUNC that a bunch of guys
say that's called FUNC.
F-U-N-C.
F-U-N-C.
FUNC.
But it has all the disk-o-isk meaning to it.
As a matter of fact, if you look there and label it,
it looks like it was designed in the 70s.
Are you going to have to FUNC?
That's what it's up.
And FUNC is a distributed command system.
Essentially, there is a certificate authority that exists
and it issues each machine a certificate
and it issues operators, certificates.
And it keeps track of.
It acts as a centralized authority figure.
So you can say Eric has permission to deal with all the machines
in Greenfield.
But we're only going to let Kevin deal with the machines in Spartanburg
and we'll let Jay still with machines in both places.
And he is five-irectional.
So, for instance, if you wanted to run a young update on 30 machines.
Eric can say, youngupdatecredible.server.interplies.com.
And it would update everything in that BNS hierarchy.
All the machines that start a rainbow.
So file server, BNS server,
web server.credible.server.com with automatically get update.
Because you can essentially use gloves instead of showing into a machine
running out update on the machine.
You can do it across probably right now.
The largest implementation I've seen is about 500 machines.
So you can say all of the NS machines we want to change
some configuration pattern.
And you can change the file in all of the NS machines
just as if you were going into one.
Because it allows that bi-irectional capability
and instead of authenticate to a single machine,
you're saying, I'm sending this command in a curator of my credentials.
And all those machines are saying,
you have those credentials, we'll let you run that command.
And you can go off a ton of machines.
Any questions about fun?
It's a cool tool if you have more than about 10 machines.
I need to manage more than 10 or so machines.
Nothing, backup PC.
Shameless plug.
The August edition of Linux Pro Magazine has an article on backup PC.
So I've heard you to all buy it.
And then write it in and say that you love that article.
You can correct my system.
What's the guy in the video?
I appreciate that.
I'm more than ahead of time.
I'm sorry, what's the magazine?
Linux Pro Magazine.
It's the expensive one.
They want 13 bucks for.
The August edition of the August.
It is coming out from the module.
The magazine level has it.
It looks a million has it.
The official too, I know about.
Backup PC is a multi-platform, multi-transport,
deduplicating intelligently scheduled backup platform.
It does not have features like backing up,
data-based live, things of that nature.
It's assuming that you're going to use native tools to do those backups.
And then it's going to grab it.
It's primarily designed to do disk-based backups.
And so looking at this multi-transport,
it'll do backups over SMB or CIFS.
So you can, without having to throw a line on,
you can backup your Windows machines.
It'll do R-Sync.
It'll do R-Sync statement.
It'll do TAR.
It'll do any of those OverseCureShell.
And so, personally, any type of machine out there,
you can backup one way or another.
Some of the interesting things that it allows you to do is,
indeed, it's your data.
So I backup, for instance, 30 Windows machines.
Those 30 Windows machines, five large times the same they don't.
Even when you're getting down documents,
I've got three users who are doing the same job,
and they happen to have the same reference manuals as PDFs on their machine.
So rather than backing up three times,
it says, you know what, the following for these files is the same.
I'm going to hash that file and see if it is the same.
So the following is the first test.
It follows the same.
Then it hashes the same.
Then it keeps just one copy in place.
It's hard links in the backup parameters.
And let's see, what else did I say?
It was intelligently scheduling.
Most backup programs that you said,
you said specific times within the run.
You say backup server x, y, z, and 10 p.m. at night.
Well, that doesn't work so great,
especially when you're talking about laptops.
There needs to be our organization.
You don't know when people are going to be in.
They may be on the road for two weeks at a time,
and then come in and only be here for three days.
So the way the backup PC does it,
is it looks on the network every,
by default, it's every hour.
I have to set every 30 minutes.
And it says, show me all the machines
that I'm responsible backup,
and let's see if they're there.
So it runs time and see if those machines are there.
By the way, tell me if I'm running out of time.
It checks to see if those machines are there.
If those machines are there, it says,
all right, who are the machines that are here
that I need to backup?
And if you've backed one up an hour here,
you're not going to start with another backup.
So it sits there and it creates a list of machines
that are here that backup should be for.
Then it's going to prioritize those.
And it's prioritize them based on a couple of things.
First is the last time that it's all machine.
So if you've got a machine that hasn't been seen in 50 days,
and you've got a machine that's been seen 10 days ago,
the 50 day ago machine is going to get back there.
First, I'll tell you what it does,
and multiple backups at the time.
The fall limits are four.
So if you've got four machines or more,
you're going to start running into where it's going to try to sketch
or what it's held to my base upon.
How long ago it seemed?
It'll also say, you know what I've seen every time
that we see this machine is on 24 hours a day.
It learns that.
And it will say, you know what,
I can put off back from this machine now,
because I know it's going to be on a big time.
And so if there's another machine that,
even though I haven't done it back up recently,
to actually, the backup is older of the other machine.
I know it's going to be on, I'm going to fish that off.
And so it's intelligently scheduling.
And that's a pretty cool feature when you're dealing with any users
as opposed to servers that are home all the time.
Let's see.
Talked about the doofocating.
Talked about most of the transport.
It's cross-platform, so it runs on Windows,
Linux, Linux, Mac OS X.
The final thing I want is that it's end-user accessible.
In other words, your end-user can do their own restores.
There's a web interface that allows them to go and look at the
biosystem, look at the last time they were backed up,
start backed up.
You can let them stop or be queue backed up as well.
And having that ability, if you've ever had to deal with end users
who may go a file, lose a file,
and they want you to do a health-giving effect,
pointing them to a web interface where they could get it
themselves rather than bothering you,
you have them with big outtapes.
Find the tape that it's on, find a non-mangle version on the tape.
That's a lot of this full version.
Yes, it does full version, and as a matter of fact,
if you use arcing as a protocol of arcing data,
it will essentially does incremental spread,
but you can have I, for instance,
I key two keyfolds, which is really false.
I check keyfolds forever,
and I check some files as they move forward,
so that I only, in transferring files,
I have changed.
And that is an equal when I'm checking the check sums.
And I will check, I'll just check in time
on files for incremental.
So it's really incremental forever.
It's got that one base once the first two run,
so I'm backing up machines with 15, 20 gauge of data
and they back up to 30 minutes.
Are you backing up the whole machine or just the data?
I'm backing up the entire machine.
And this duplication file that works
over the system files.
Yes, all of that.
Wow, that should give you a significant savings.
We initially projected that I would be seven and a half gig
back up around 40 machines.
I have not yet hit one gig.
That's awesome.
For instance, you have an ISO sitting on your driver.
You're backing up 600 and many of that ISO.
If I've got five other people that have that,
and I'm only backing it up once,
I've saved almost two and a half terabytes
for the data.
But it doesn't have to do much,
but that file doesn't have to exist in the same directory.
Not in the same directory.
It has to have the same name.
It's free, so it's forced.
It's back up.
PC's been around for about eight years now.
It doesn't.
It really has not gotten a lot of credit
because it's been dis-based.
And really, this or maybe backups have been very expensive
because this is his work within instance.
But that's changing.
You're running a small company, though,
that's the only way to go.
It has been for years now.
Yes.
And honestly, if your back seems to come stuff,
until you can start just fine,
it's a huge tape library.
It's going to sit there and change it.
How do you back up?
Final 10 terabytes worth of data.
And so we've been using this for about six months
where I work.
We've been using it a little longer than that.
But it's actually been production probably about three months now.
For everyone, we have aggressively larger beta users.
And we're extremely pleased.
A little while ago, I thought you said
that you thought it was going to take seven gigs?
Seven terabytes.
Okay.
Sorry.
Seven terabytes.
And I get one terabyte.
Okay.
One terabyte.
Seven terabytes.
I'm sorry.
I kind of made that interpretation,
but I would share that with you.
Yes.
As you said, three flops.
I do that all the time.
It's literally flops.
The fact that we see is that the floppy disk takes back.
Yes.
Well, I am not sure if it is a tape or a heartbeat.
As I hate to have to keep everything on this.
We are keeping everything on this.
We are talking about replicating it here at a median
in case the end of the world is we know what happens in Liberty.
And that's it.
Yeah.
At that point, I probably don't care if it's someone made.
When did you come back here?
When did you come back here?
With less than $200.
How would you do it again?
Yeah.
I don't know.
I didn't understand from an archiving standpoint.
And back at PC does have an archiving standpoint.
If you've got to keep something for seven years,
that may make some sense for long-term tape storage.
But I don't trust tapes.
Yeah.
We're really trying to shy away from that.
We'll do the tapes, probably, because
followers demand it.
We won't trust that for backups.
That's the archived type.
OK.
Well, that's kind of messed up.
The things that we were doing in the past.
The nice thing that back at PC does
is it's checking checksums as well.
So even if this starts getting corrupt
and it's checking the source checksums,
it's going to find out, I think there's something different here
going on in public.
So you kind of have a little bit of a pair of detects
that keeps up with things.
Any other questions?
Yeah.
Is it just the backup, the backup, too?
Yeah.
Let me show you.
I'm going to show you.
How are you like that?
I love you.
I love you.
You've got the web interfaces.
My boss, by the way, told him,
he always wanted to make it without me.
I don't believe it.
The app.
I was really tired of my whole visual display
to be in touch with by the magazine
which I've walked through.
I don't really know.
They've already paid me for the magazine,
so I don't see anything.
If you buy it, other than letting you get an element.
One question about the packaging
and the product.
Sure.
Why would the product be the same?
Because the content of the product
would be like, can these be hatched red?
Well, theoretically, if you were going to do
if you have unlimited amount of time,
you could hatch every single file.
Right?
But it's not like the file sets are longer.
Intensive?
I mean, I've got, you know, I'll tell you how many files.
So you're just saying that it's a trade-off?
It's a trade-off.
Okay.
This will also be a compression on the Y.
And I don't think that I have...
How about the overhead?
You're running this all day long
and you know, somebody brings their laptop in
and says, now you haven't seen it in a couple of months.
Is this going to...
Are they going to complain about your network being slowed?
They don't complain about the network being slowed.
And can you travel plans?
Yes and no.
Would matter, anyway, I don't know.
Well, it does, because the client built it,
especially if it's a PM or a situation,
or a world's one.
Well, the client built it more
because they're meaning all of this...
Okay.
This guy says...
But it's slowed down.
There's systems, what I'm saying.
Is that a problem?
It is initially.
And what we have typically done
is all the new clients that we're pushing out.
We do the backups first.
And we get two full backups.
And after the first two full backups,
it's going to be real.
Let me jump into a client here.
See if I'm fine-minded.
Actually, mine's a poor example.
Yes, how do you actually do these backups?
I do check every F-hour rule.
I have it currently in the schedule
that is back up every few days.
And then check the check sums every 14 days.
Wow, two full.
I'm sorry.
Getting the two full will register a check sum
of the head end, the tail end of the file.
And so when you're going back through the file list,
it's looking at two things.
It's looking at every time.
And every time has to change.
It checks the head end tail end of the file check sum.
To see if it really has changed,
regardless of what the end time says.
Modify time.
There's end time.
A time.
And see time.
Modify time.
Act this time.
Create the end time.
But you can see here,
this is a pretty large client.
And his last backup,
which was an incremental,
was 48,
checking all the check sums,
bucked it up 71 minutes.
And that's,
but once you get past the first two polls,
then most people aren't saying,
I don't see it.
Do you see,
we have some complaints from the really heavy users
that are doing a lot of this space activity as well.
But when you're talking about,
you know, 20 to 50 minutes.
If you're only doing it every two days,
I assume you're scheduling it in off-hours anyway, right?
Well, not all these machines are here.
I'll let it back up PC.
Right.
When it seeks the machine,
and hey, I haven't seen this machine,
it's time for a backup of this machine.
I'm going to kick one off,
and it starts it.
Is it, is it smart enough to prioritize the off-hours?
Yeah.
If you notice the machine's going to be there in the off-hours,
because it's learned that through history,
it will not back it up during the day.
The issues don't seem to be the backup itself,
but the comparisons that go on through the check sums.
Yes.
And that can be,
we get a lot of feedback from our users.
Not a lot, but some,
that's probably especially people
that have tons and tons of small files.
Or badly defragmented this.
Or badly fragmented this,
I should say.
But I understand it.
When it's badly defragmented,
I believe it does know to be a new version of our sync app.
It's going to cut that significant.
Yes.
There is supposed to be the latest version of our sync
that has been released.
It's in Apple right now.
I think it's still Apple,
but maybe they don't.
Because the check sum checking
by, it is one eighth of what it was,
the version prior,
processor utilization.
Which should still be there.
Which should drop that.
And by the way,
we have done,
we opted to give our sync,
simply because it,
simply because of the incremental forever.
It's not passing all the network traffic
for all these files that,
that we already have to copy off.
I'm not, I'm not familiar with that too.
The concept is that you do a full,
and then you're constantly checking
against that full to see if something's changed.
So even though you're running a full backup,
which in this case is only checking the check sums,
you're not really dumping all of that data
back across the network.
It is, it's really an incremental.
It's only passing what's changed.
Even though it's verifying
that everything's the same on both sides.
And so just comparing a,
a modification time,
or a new creating time.
And that saves you on network traffic,
and it saves you on disk access to the grid.
You still have a disk.
So what you have is,
what you want to do with this,
a synchronized,
five, you know, file system.
Yes.
With version.
That's, yes.
Okay.
Well, there's a change to a file,
grab the full file, grab the filter.
Right now, it grabs the whole file.
The newest version of our sync,
which is an alpha,
it's supposed to start building buildings.
Although, what honestly,
network traffic is not,
if you look at,
if you look at the network traffic,
that we're talking about,
we're talking about,
at those four milliseconds,
that's what,
32 megabits a second.
And that's all my switch networks.
So that's not,
that's not pushing things.
That should last my second, right?
Yeah.
And one more,
okay, megabits a second.
That's my machine.
I was working on it at 630.
I had no idea that was going on.
Clearly, I didn't know it back test tonight.
So.
The people who are complaining about this
are,
certainly, our power user,
and we have a pretty technical crowd,
because most of our users are developers.
And.
Well, I got people who complain that they just see their
drive line,
and they can be a better player.
A better player.
A better player.
But you can see,
can you take it up to real time?
Back up or redundancy?
No, well, I mean,
it's not a DRBG type of solution.
You can schedule,
I guess, every few hours.
But you can see,
I've got,
I've got all of these machines
and it's color pigment.
Because we're doing incremental forever,
we're backing up the actual size on this,
would be 1.6 terabytes.
And if you come back and look at,
oh, wait, I apologize.
This is the one dude machine.
I haven't been converted into the interface.
Looks great.
Just need some retouching on that bottom bar.
Yeah.
I don't know what it is.
I don't know what it is.
I don't know what it is.
I don't know what it is.
I don't know what it is.
My whole is 661 gig.
So I'm not even close to touching.
Not even close to touching.
Is it a towering machine?
This is around 40.
What kind of data do you talk about?
I'm surprised you don't have more of that data
than that word.
What are the things that was my argument when they told me
they wanted to implement a laptop back up plan?
I said,
you have no purpose in having data on your laptop.
And I was told that that was well and good in a textbook.
But the users were going to put data on their laptop.
And part of the reality is that our people are mobile
in excess of 50% of the time.
So right now over our way,
there's just no option to have them push big files back and forth.
We've got people with terabytes of data
that they're pulling chunks off and putting 50 gigabytes
worth of images on a machine to work on at a time.
And there's just no hope of them using server
because they're just on the office.
So reality is something that that telling people that
was essentially a problem for the company
because they weren't going to do it.
It wasn't reasonable for them to do it.
And so, you know,
I guess I have to look at that.
But if you take a look at,
just to show you the
you can,
and the user can do this as well.
They can start incremental or full or
stock up back up.
But you can also
come in
to a
and see if we can change the history.
You can come up here and it will show you when
here are the backups,
the last set of backups across here.
And when something changes,
you'll see a VZ row for the first instance
and it'll come across and show you the versioning.
So the user can say,
I don't remember when this followed last ride.
And I wish we had a
I don't want to get bumping around in the machine too much.
Is there a safe place I'm good
where there'll likely be versions?
We're here to check.
I know.
I know.
I know.
I want that.
No.
Look under
data of the C drive.
And if you want, you can go to
WOT.
Look at consulting WOT.
No, my name is.
Nothing in there.
Not to go on.
You've got a machine with the hard drive
and totally crashes.
You've got to restore the old machine.
How easy is that?
Is that as easy as that she has had a new image of that machine?
No.
And it's not a sign.
It is a data.
So I still got to do my own machine.
Yes.
You can see this particular
VL version of your existing across
all the developments.
On the 27th, we have another version.
On the 28th, we have another version.
What's the DRVU?
What do you see DRVU about that?
Directors.
Directors.
I'm sorry.
Yes.
Anything else?
It's such a dual version.
Yes.
I mean, it's not about a good management system,
but I know it's better than that.
You know, if you've got a user, he says,
I need this document.
I don't remember when I last angle it.
You can have them just come up here
and click.
And for a single file,
it'll pull it directly off the one circuit.
What model is that?
The X61.
Very lucky it is not blue screen.
And he's not?
It tends not to be that running lid.
He's not being suspicious about that.
But it is a cool program.
It's definitely, if you've got end user machines,
step by work and load.
I don't use it for server backups.
I know a lot of places who do University of North Carolina does.
But they're mainly a unique shop.
Why would that be?
Mainly because some of the tools that I would want,
such as being able to hit exchange while it's live
and backup.
Same thing with SQL Server.
Because I'm in a modernist environment.
The other thing is you want to schedule the server backups.
Yeah.
I wouldn't want to hit him.
Even though I can do blackout periods,
I wouldn't want to hit him.
Can I actually do hard for scheduling with this?
You can.
It's really not designed for you.
But that ability needs this.
And the way that you would do it is,
you would tell it never to run the look for machines on its end.
And you would tell it when to get the look for machines.
So you would say it's starting to only look for machines
at six pocket nine and eight pocket nine.
And don't look at any of the other times.
Can you have more than one backup profile?
Sure.
As a matter of fact, for machine, if you want.
Okay.
Okay.
So that would solve that problem.
And I'm using back to the right now for servers.
And it gives me a little more flexibility
and the default version of our same service support VSS
out of the box.
And although there is a version,
and I do use the version that has VSS enabled.
So I can use this as well.
Virtual snapshot.
Something.
It allows you to take a stable image of a file,
even though the file is open.
Even though there's a lot of product.
Shout out to the copy, yes.
But because of things like SQL Server in Exchange,
I want something that is more wireless,
ported on from the back.
Back.
Back.
There's a client.
That's right.
There's a client.
There's a client.
All right.
Thank you.
I'm sorry I had to do that.
I know you got Eric who said he's got a two-minute lightning talk.
You better keep to it.
Okay.
Usually log into a lot of different servers.
I use five to mess with the programs all the time.
I always log in through.
I'm down on my day.
This is what nothing to do.
And this guy right here is...
He's a pansy.
All right.
I'm going to mess with him.
He's a pansy.
Like they said, that's good for textbook.
And that's good to say, you should never be rude.
Because I don't know if Mama's boy breastfed.
I don't know.
I'm not sure.
I'm a root guy.
He weighed up.
I mean, you buy a document.
Okay.
And I'm a wirelessly.
All right.
And apparently, something happens to my wireless signal.
I guess you say five, right?
Everybody's had their other session closed on yet.
And you're like, uh, I wonder what kind of damage that is.
Right?
You kind of got that uneasy feeling that you need to call your mom.
And, uh...
So, what I do is I always install Detach.
Does anyone here ever use Detach?
No, I use Scream.
Scream.
Scream.
Are you Scream?
Yes.
Okay.
I'm starting to tell you you scream.
I don't know.
It goes scream.
It messes up the emulation on half the machines I'll walk into.
All right.
Detach does not.
Sorry.
You're Scream.
I'm sorry.
You're Scream.
Well...
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
It's not going well right now.
Detach.
Detach.
Detach is, uh, antsy codes.
Go from A to D.
Uncooked.
Detach.
Does not cook.
He's Scream.
Cows.
Okay.
That's it.
Yeah.
I get a lot of it.
A lot of it.
All right.
This is right now.
I have an example here.
All right.
So I walk in.
The first thing I do is I do a Detach minus A.
And then I do a Tamp.
And then I do some kind of...
I do my name, actually.
But it's like session one.
And then...
Um...
Then...
Back.
All right.
So what that'll do is this will execute another...
Look another shell.
You'll get a pound sign again.
Or a dollar sign.
And you'll be running fast.
But the thing is...
This is session one.
The thing is it creates a pipe here.
This is a pipe file.
Which basically holds this process ID running in memory.
So that your parent process...
If your...
If your shell dies or the wires is cut...
Your parent process ID...
Is killed.
Okay?
But your child process ID is...
Is still running.
So your shell is still running.
It's still going through...
The command that's running and doing all kinds of empty stuff.
But when you walk back in,
You get to another shell.
That previous process is still running.
You can type in the same exact command.
And what this does is say,
Hey, I'm home to attach back to my tide.
Okay?
It's called session one.
And blowing me whole of the screen refreshes.
And you're back to where you were.
So you do not crunch your clients files.
You don't risk losing data.
Okay?
So D-tags is very...
Screen lets you jump from...
You can have about three or four screens at the same time.
D-tags.
You're much more simplest just one.
All right?
So you can't...
You can't let the air go into a lot of years.
Except you're just logging in again with a no-show process.
You're just saying two.
Section two.
Now,
Our camping system is character based with all our users.
When they log in in their batch RC.
This is the first thing that gets run in their logging process.
It's a D-tags with their name.
They log in the camping system.
Well, they're window boxes constantly crash.
They get viruses.
They plug up space heaters.
The number one problem in the winter.
Space here.
14 people are down.
14.
People allocate inventory.
It's unallocated.
You know, the thing...
I don't know what kind of database this is.
It's just screwing up their camping system.
So I'm having a rebuild file.
I had had a rebuild one file.
And then the upteen years of the new D-tags share.
So everybody can get textures.
When they log back in,
the batch process auto reconnects to their screen.
And they're like,
Oh, that's where I live.
My older, I was in a customer.
Okay.
Now, the other utility I like is
Search and Replace did a lot of web development.
And I like that.
I wanted to
Search and Replace stuff in a lot of files.
And I learned this one on Google.
It's called Pearl.
P-I-E.
So I remember it's pie.
Easy as pie.
All right.
So now, I'm going to do a search.
Google Replace.
Okay.
Now, inside,
it's delimited by forward slashers.
Now, I always remember this.
This is how I start off with the command line.
And what I need to do is I need to inject
a string here
and here
with my text I'm going through.
So I can convert B
to B.
The string or regular expression.
This can be a regular expression.
Okay.
But I'm going to be easy down.
I'm going to spoken right the word B to B.
And I'm going to do star dot HTML.
So I'm going to change all of my web files.
HTML files in that directory.
I'm going to change it from B to B.
So every web file
just got changed.
Okay.
All right.
Let's say I need to do it.
Let's say I got an image
source equals
forward slash
blah blah
to
image source
equals
forward slash
another directory.
Okay.
So what I need to do when I need these code signs,
the reason is,
the reason I'm writing this out first,
and I'm padding for a space to visually,
is because I need to get back in here,
and I need to escape out
these forward slashes.
All right.
So when I inject
that regular expression into here,
I better know that I'm escaping
that those forward slashes out on my path.
And then purl,
nice searcher replacement.
So when I'm changing my 3,000 file
from the searcher replace,
I want it to complete
why?
So I will make sure I run detached first.
So I'm safe.
And then I don't care how,
by the way, this takes a second.
It's purl really awesome.
I will note that this will complete
whether I drop a convention or not.
Sometimes my command run
for half an hour.
Okay.
Other utilities.
So I will start my process
at home.
I will hit just X out of the
shell process.
I will be back to work.
I will log in, be attached back in.
And it's still running.
Okay.
So, um,
so searcher replacement detached.
That's my lightening.
Thank you.
Thank you, Eric.
I'm doing this TV and Compton's Fusion.
And you'll please know that I will be doing Compton's Fusion
because it doesn't behave very well with
the TV.
Like it completely nukes the box.
It's very rude.
The problem is actually,
I use Nvidia X log into it.
Before you consider a Myth TV,
you have to consider hardware.
You can have to have a tuner card.
And almost nobody has a tuner of stock in their PC.
Unless you have an ATI all in wonder.
You can get that to work with Myth TV in the same sense
that I can't amputee one of my limbs,
but that doesn't make it a good idea.
I would recommend, um,
look at the IVTV package,
um, I'm running a apog.
I don't know,
I don't know why they spilled their company name that way.
Looks like it should be said,
apog.
That's apog river in New York.
Can you spell it for me please?
I agree.
Yes, because it's on the remote.
H-A-U-P-P-A-U-G-E.
Oh, is that how you say it, apog?
Apog.
Oh.
I'm running a apog PBR250
and works beautifully with the IVTV drivers.
And in general when you're looking at buying a tuner,
if you're going to get an HD tuner,
go to PCHDTV.com.
They make a Linux HD tuner
and one of the glorious things in their FAQ
is do you support Windows
and it just says no and that's the end.
They only have drivers for Linux,
it says.
So, it's basically a small production car
that they make once in a while.
They sell it pretty quick
because they're only 100 bucks for an HD tuner car.
Um, and you'll want to avoid a lot of the USB tuners
like you'll see on the boot pinnacle HDTV
to go about a lot of that crap doesn't work.
Avoid USB if you can.
And you want to take a look at their remote.
It's specific.
You want to remote because it's got some extra buttons on there
because Linux will let you program those
whatever in the world you want
and they can be bloody handy.
Um, and in fact,
I'll bring it back there.
That is actually the KDE infrared kicker
is what they call it.
It's a little monitor that's running in KDE
and you can configure any button on your remote
to launch anything in KDE and do anything in KDE.
Um, MythTV,
not particularly pleasant to sit up in most distributions.
Um, that's why MythBund2 is, like,
actually fairly up there in distra watch.
It's a tremendous pain in the butt.
And MythTV is the reason that I lift
Mandrake Linux 10 back in the day
and went through, like,
the better part of it doesn't distros before I got to Gen2
and, laughably, Gen2,
the hardest Linux distribution there is
is the only one that makes it super-duper easy.
After I've solved MythTV,
Gen2, it was, like, literally three commands
to have everything up and running.
Whereas, like, the Fedora guys, like,
Gen2, it's, like, six, ten pages.
It's crazy.
Sorry.
Um, it's okay, we've got room.
This one.
Um, used to be,
you could get your TV listings from free
from labs.zapp2id.com.
They don't do that anymore.
They claim it was because people were abusing the service.
I claim it's because they're totally mismanaged
and it's competent.
Now you have to go to SchedulesDirect.org.
They're a nonprofit.
Uh, it's 15 bucks for years worth of listings.
But if you compare that to how much listings are for TVO,
that's a bargain.
15 bucks is what?
A month or two in TVO for listings.
Anybody have a TVO?
Anybody know what TVO is?
Oh, yeah.
I can't get the lines on the side.
I can't move.
I think I'm moving one now.
Five now.
But, uh, one of the,
one of the benefits to MythTV is,
um, a lot of it's been built out modular.
So you can separate the back end from the front end.
You can have a little box in your closet
that's got a bunch of tuners in it.
Running TV and you can stream it over your network to any other machine.
Um, in terms of what you want in terms of hardware,
um, you're, you can get by with,
a half giga RAM, you get a one more.
Um, if you're running just the front end,
you can get by with 256 megs of RAM.
Don't expect to be doing anything else while the front end's running though.
And, um, you're gonna want a good GPU
preferably in video because in video,
I don't know, it's not free, blah, blah, blah.
Um, a video has something called X, B, and C,
X video, motion compensation.
And it makes the TV look really, really good after you can it through your GPU.
And, uh, one last consideration you want to make when you're buying a tuner,
you want a hardware encoder.
That is a hardware decoder.
That is very, very important.
If you don't get a tuner that has a hardware decoder,
if you will be destroying your CPU,
just to play back the TV stream.
And something like 1.5 gigahertz per stream,
if it's a software encoder, it's great.
Whereas if you have a hardware decoder like my card,
it's like 1% CPU, it's nothing.
What's the card you want to use?
A Pog TVR250, um, Google IBTV.
Anything that the IBTV driver supports is a good card.
You can get what I'm doing, like, what?
That's where I got my, I got, uh,
I got my card on new way free, or, um, on eBay for three, uh,
three years ago for eight bucks.
Okay, um, we'll go ahead and go to the, uh,
well, you can't watch a great TV very much,
but as you can see, it's got,
it's got a pretty powerful recording system.
You can schedule, like, you can set priorities,
you can set how long you want to start before time or after time.
You can go through the program listings.
I mean, it's very versatile.
And aside from chargers,
really,
aside from chargers,
really crappy volume on health,
it's pretty good.
Um, that's your signal that you do.
Unfortunately, I like that.
Is that a tail end of like five or six splitters?
So,
can you show us something you can grab from this?
Uh, yes.
Um, I was going to say that's the other thing.
It doesn't just do TV.
Um, there's a lot of plugins,
including obviously, uh, video,
music, image, reality, game, so on.
And one of the little tricks I like to do is,
uh, the video plugin is nothing more than, sort of, like,
a database of a folder you point to on the hard drive.
So, take a Miro and save it somewhere within that folder,
and you can sort of have MythTV,
sort of aggregate all the video data
you're getting through Miro and podcast,
and whatever, it'll integrate real nicely.
And,
good to see you.
So yeah, see there's the podcast right there,
and let's see you in the back.
This time, I'm like, this time, I'm like, five.
We had to shoot on 2000.
And that's in-play or playing, but...
They're moving somewhere.
In-play or...
Examin-ass, patience.
A ton of stuff.
Here, what was the actual name of the title of the talk?
The actual title.
It's like, the illiterary.
How would I call the, let me tell your ways?
So, apparently, like that was.
I've got it.
And...
Yeah.
Concept plugins.
If your distros out of date,
you'll have MythTV 0.20.
I feel sorry for whatever your distro is.
A lot of the MythTV specific distros are really out of date.
If you have MythTV 0.20,
you're going to find while the programs are simply broke,
because later on in that branch,
they started working on 2-1.
And as things broke,
they did fix something like,
sorry, you're just going to have to update.
It's got music, image gallery.
Let you see.
Midi, it's oddly enough,
I never got in-player VLC to play DVD,
complete with titles properly.
I'm sure there's like some really ungodly wrong parameter list.
You have to put in to make that work.
It just works with MythTV.
It'll show all the DVD menus,
and the controller will work with them.
It's great.
But I'll take you to where you can manage your recordings,
schedule recordings,
search words, keywords.
So yeah, you can search.
You can search for whatever you want.
It's my issue.
I look out quick,
it search through all the listings of anything that's coming up.
It's my issue.
It was pretty quick.
And you can sort through,
and you can set all the recording options here as well.
So if you see a cordless showing title,
week, every week,
it's ridiculous.
It's actually got more options than the TVOs that I play with or out.
And one last word of advice.
Most people have a converter box,
because they have the digital tiers and cable or whatnot.
There is a serial port on the back of the Charter Motorola converter box
that is designed to work with VVR software like MythTV.
And before you go out like I did,
and buy a $20 USB serial adapter,
and then dribble the screws off of it,
because it doesn't have screw holes in its flush.
Don't bother.
Charter intentionally disabled the serial port
on all their converter boxes,
and they will not sell you one that isn't able to.
Sorry.
And that basically,
if you call customer service and bid you still say,
sorry,
we can send you our PVR system on the other hand.
And so, I mean, your screw.
Sorry.
I think that helped.
I think it's the only thing you can do if you...
I mean, for people who don't know and talk about the same problem
that you have back in the day with your VHS,
your converter box wouldn't tell your VHS,
or your VHS would tell your converter box
what channel to go change to to record.
So if you recorded something on different channels,
it would stay on one channel.
And you get the same problem with the tutors
because they don't go into the triple digits channels,
the digital tiers.
The only solution around that is an infrared blaster,
which is filthy dirty and unreliable.
I mean, all it takes is, you know,
you're pet moving the infrared blaster,
and then suddenly you're not changing channels anymore.
Question?
You just put a small mirror in front of it.
It works fine.
A mirror?
Yeah.
And there's also the blasters that sit right in front
of the IR sensor on the cable box.
So, I mean, it is,
adhesively to things there,
the RF, the transmitter,
so you know, the RF thing on the transmitter.
No, it's...
It's an IR on the IR.
It's an IR at work,
so you don't have to have anything.
You're putting the IR transmitter,
you're attaching it to an IR board,
and so you're actually getting the IR at your pins?
What's that head for your tongue?
But...
What?
How is IR for infrared?
It flies in part of the spectrum.
It's an IR for FB,
but the infrared ultraviolet,
the radio is sometimes visible.
Much of the serious people I know with that TV
just end up going with direct TV,
because they allow you to play nice with it.
Ross!
The only other thing we should consider
if you're going to get a lift TV setup
on your own system,
storage.
Live TV recording eats.
I want to say about two gigs an hour,
two and a half gigs at hour. Can you change the car? Probably. But just
standard NTSC is two two and a half gigs an hour much less if you're pushing
aging. How long have you converted? I mean can you can you can you transgo to have
a bit four on the fly? That machine isn't that's for sure. That's a pinion four
two eight. Maybe you got a you know spoken fast modern system but I doubt it
it does have an unofficial third party plug-in called like myth web and it
allows you to transcode and push stuff across the network to your myth run
in instead of streaming in Adelaide and if you are going to stream it you're
going to want at least good good wireless G reception if you have even
video for quality wireless G between front end and back end give up it's
going to splutter like you know stop motion style you're going to want
wireless energy or just be wired straight and stuff and in terms of
transcoding big CPU that is transcode at college like the footballer baseball
game on this machine out to x-vid at medium quality double pass and doing all
the beanaways algorithms usually ends up taking me three to four times a
longer than the actual game runs so it's taking like nine to twelve hours to
transcode football game yeah but this is a somewhat older machine question did
you say that this thing back like a swing box so you can work some programs at
work pretty much well it work only if you have a ridiculous upstream on your
home connection which you're not going to want charter six mag with like 60K
up that's not going to hack it you're you're gonna want a lot more than that
even if you're pushing low quality stuff across network it I mean you'll you'll
be bandwidth in a hurry unless you really transcoded down to something like
it was real player in nineteen ninety nine dial up for some website not sure
I think that may be one of the output options I could be wrong most of the
the transcode output options are standard all-time codex in pay x-vid things like
that I'm not sure if it's a firewall port most of the convert boxes it's a
straight serial port and there's it I mean the the actual software within
this TV to control converter box I won't lie to you it's not elegant it's filthy
nerdy it's like we're all squirrels but it works and I'm pretty sure all of
its serial port stuff but of course if you're around here and your own charter
doesn't matter how many serial ports you have or even if you triple the screws
off of them like I did will work you've riddled this road you've riddled this
crazy big burger box or I'll know the connector had the screws that are
permanently in and the serial port slush on the back of big burger box and so
yeah that was fun flying little metal pieces how did I decide what could
anybody probably probably literally they they said hey Motorola you know as
many units from Motorola's they're buying I'm sure Motorola said oh sure
will you know disconnect that pathway or I'm sorry I could very well be
a simple setting in one of the chips that says no you can't like depending
this is a slight tangent if you have an Nvidia graphics card take a look at
NV clock which is only used for overclocking if your GPU is one of the ones that
was like one off from the fastest model at the time odds are it was the fastest
model GPU coming out of the fab and just had a slight defect and so they've
sort of disabled a few things and clocked it down but with NV clock you can cut
that stuff back off yes both of course you you sort of avoid your warranty and
the crashes they'll let the units say what do we call you not to do it I like
that I'm a six thousand series and they he's like reading the computer to
unlock pixel shaders and things like that to you know I had I had one with 12
pixel shaders but it actually had 16-hours and you get a lock of the
computer I have to actually have 6600 GT but yours probably already had all
16-hours because I think I have a 6600 regular I think had 12 and I
have a 16-hours yeah that the mouse was a little cheaper because it's
going to bring some we've got 128 megs of video RAM but plays doing free
great doesn't play stuff instead they give that great you said you were running
off that you mentioned it yeah I'm pretty sure it's called this one too it's
an Ubuntu parent that's got 50b sort of pre-installed like it figured
differently but then you later back the mid is really isn't yeah they tend to
be out of date and especially if they're out of date enough to be running 0.20
branch love plug-ins can be just totally host what you got there run that
version 0 as a SVN of 0.21 you have to use Jeremy he's a kid to me like some of
us are actually no no I have had this laptop was running Gentoo and for those
who are listening to source cast a little podcast I started doing that's
now running orange orange our our tent and as a slide we're very that's just a
slide we're not really it's like Gentoo only without the compiler and the use
flags I would still keep Gentoo on a server because the use flags are just so
damn powerful but I got to concede it's somewhat impractical in the desktop but
it was the only one at the time way back when I got into Gentoo where
myth TV wasn't like performing a root canal on myself and then the back then
the whole lot of distress also didn't gracefully upgrade between releases so
every six months I got to redo the 10 page setup guide all over again so you
can see why I might have moved to Gentoo at the time
corporate masters a lot of makers you know a long system it's got to be
everything all packed and you're gonna be able to play that all new I have four
round but I think it's already so for those of you who'd like sort of the
concepts behind Gentoo which is rolling release a lot of software that's
potentially bling-edge take a look at arch I really like this desktop actually
it's not that bad and one of the things I particularly like this is that I need
this to hold this in my laptop right this wasn't on your I didn't do
how this usually I know there are a lot of known fans in the room but
for whatever reason don't like looking but I know this is gonna look similar
side instead it's work time to start eggs no it normally works because it's big
fan well apparently I still have some configuring to do an arch
but I don't say they an arch they have something called KDE mod which is similar
to how KDE is a Gentoo where it's modular you don't install the whole big thing
you say give me that give me that and it is the most beautiful looking KDE I
have ever seen stock it bites integrated all great and even all the known
people that are like hardcore known fans that when I show it to them they love
it it's beautiful it's excellent right now it's three but they just released
their last rev of three and if you're an arch you can actually go to their KDE
mod for SVN if you're insane it is still unstable basically Gentoo and
arch took the same position on KDE which is KDE 4.1 we the first release will
offer to you that isn't like marked as unstable that you don't have to go out of
your way to install you know the questions as an aside we've come to
commentary on likes and cults we had the gentleman who is now the lead release
engineer for Gentoo come and try and show us a merge role and hope he said it
would be done in his hour and a half for the patient. A merge may not be
around that much longer actually pollutus is getting soon incredibly
popular now and who can blame you if you have a whale use Gentoo for those who
don't know the sulfur manager in Gentoo is called a merger portage and it's
entirely Python based and the problem with that is once you get a whale use
into system it has to go reading thousands and thousands of files to figure out
what you have installed and how to upgrade and so on and so like when you say a
merge update world it would take like 60 seconds of thinking and pollutus is
written entirely in I want to say C maybe C++ and it caches everything so when
you say pollutus update world it's like bam sounds good please P-A-L-U-D-I-S and
not just for Gentoo they have it where you can install it and play with it on
other distros too but that's not the funniest name the arch has a third
party sulfur manager to and I swear to god nobody in this room could
pronounce it why a-o-u-r-t I just call it yogurt but it's it's really great
because arch has something called a-u-r arch user repository where anybody can
submit a bill and it will go looking in a-u-r if it doesn't find what you're
looking for you'll say hey I found this you want to start yes
yes pack man's a stop and yogurt is is a third forty thing it's it's getting
pretty popular actually I mean I love it I don't use pack man anymore it does
it has all the same syntax as pack man it does all the same things as
pack man only more and more frequently and pack man's a little bit a little
wide yes yes
you have to try it with a lot of filters no what is that man what is that man
pack man is the package manager package manager for arch
does not think in pack man this is repository but if it's here the only
person other in here that's a that maybe still has been to install it and try
arch you'll probably like it sorry as you say no software for non-musics
so I thought it was okay but didn't sort of reach forth the crown of the
best user friendly distro it could have done more um he had some really nasty
things to say because it's coming with it
yes my user friendly
you clearly have never installed into
if you think it's the most okay the gingerhand focus like 30 pages great
learning experience is painful to install you're a friend of the guy you're a
grg
no but no he has some legit abuse a lot of them do with development because he
he doubled in a bunch of level for a while and had things happen like the
bunch of devs broke lipsy and your system wouldn't do any more if you were
playing around with the devil ranch and they completely knew sound from the
colonel and the devil ranch who I did that I'll get it one time in my
sound and I would go to one car on the worst power of the other car
exactly you know and you got a whole bunch of stories like that of you know
brainless stuff going on with you devil I mean who's who and a bunch of devil
was playing around with the whole system we don't need sound
well you know at the same time at the same time you know but they ran
them in unstable I've ever had a secret story that's I've never used that
that's asking for a problem and I mean any any any any districts
develop branches is going to have problems so going in
building up problems and he was understanding that his his beef was more
how we're going to make your system completely unmootable
certainly whoever made that change should at least try the batteries they
created I mean they actually think they did that they released out to the
stable package on the bus story that thousands of thousands of users
killed their ex server I like canonical I really do you probably find mine
sort of beef with a bit more practical I want to see a rolling release in
the district we don't have to go through a long process between releases you
just updating like well you know I mean too if you say yes but that's not
newbies all right then okay and I will you know ease of access getting
non-free stuff I understand the Richard Stalin ramp but I still want to
be able to install sky if you hand it off to somebody there to use women's
and Richard Stalin dances across history and says here's what you need to know
before you have any degree support you're not going to be too happy using that
district and I thought up when Duke had done more like sky back to go to
Betty Buntu right and I'm like security paranoid I wanted to be an official
repo why the sky if you can you can turn on their their commercial
responsibility they have an official commercial cost for where they have a
bunch of non-free packages in fact it's in the sources that let's comment
out or if you go in there we know the third party I'm able third party
stepping in there sky to Google Earth and a whole bunch of
proprietary stuff as it many but to trust me I know I post all the book to
forums and got you know she rated to say oh it's not official
yeah they I mean I would have wanted them to have made it easier like
again in Gen 2 if you install Google Earth or sky they're on the main
mirror you just give you don't have to go through any nonsense of adding another
repo are you trying to infer that Gen 2 is New England no I'm just
trying to say that they're more practical about making stuff easier to
install aside from the whole you split I know it's a good idea
what I like about independent independent repo's like Adobe
they'll give you your repo out of y'all and you can get flash and
aqua Adobe Acrobat and you know who you're getting from with the distributed
repo you're talking about yeah exactly and that's one of the things I don't
think I like new door to be packed up exactly this guy over here exactly that
that's what you're concerned about when you want to repository and that's what I
like about Gen 2 it's on the main mirrors in arch
a you are user repository you can see it fetching from the original source
can you understand where they're coming from though with the perspective that
is a lot of impact is oh why are you saying are not you know legally allowing them
to repackage I totally understand that but I mean why make everybody go
search forth and go add everything so why not just say you know during the
install time here do you want support for MP3 and you click yes and
give you a little pump up saying you know blah blah blah okay you can install
it anyway they could make it easier for them to say as far as MP3's that has
got more or better in the last you know here and a half if you do a brand new
install to them to open up and rock it especially just my classic act of habit
example cooler sky you name okay
wow it's made it difficult that's worse for hammering flinting
well thank you very much that was that's cool all right is it by getting questions all
else shall we adjourn free monitor good home minus the speakers
I'm glad all y'all new guys came here this is great to see some of your faces
the dues are $2 to me before you leave
I don't get you global that so much
but so this is a little few script come back next month and we'll see you
him y'all back
