Episode: 326
Title: HPR0326: Setting up a Monitor
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0326/hpr0326.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-07 16:25:26

---

.
.
.
.
.
Welcome to HackerPup Radio everyone, my name is Soak, once again I seem to be doing this
at the very last moment except this time I don't actually have a script written. I should
be doing the continuation of my Python programming 101, should be writing the game of life except
I haven't written it yet. I've written some of it but haven't got it all narrowed down
and actually explaining it well. Sometimes I can write the code and then take some of
my bar to explain how I'm doing it. I've always been busy with immigration noise and
stuff which is a really long story. If you see me Twitter and stuff you probably know
some of the history there but I'm not going to bore you with details because I could fill
in entire podcasts just probably not about that. So very quickly I'm going to be explaining
how to set your monitor up right. Which sounds silly but for years I was doing it, well
I was doing it the way I thought it should be. Brightness is brightness, contrast is contrast
and colour is colour. And then I read one place on the internet many years ago about
the way you should actually do it and they explained why it's a better way of doing it.
So I'm going to share this with you. First of all open a dust prompt terminal whatever,
something black basically. Even going to the gimp and just make something black. We need
a black but we can test against. Then take contrast all the way down and brightness all
the way down. Obviously now I have a completely black screen. Now what you need to do is turn
the brightness up as much as you can but keep the black being black. If you turn it up
too much it's going to bleach it out until I make it grey. This way you know it's not
going to bleach any of the colours on. Now that you've got that brightness setting
don't touch the brightness and use instead the contrast button as the actual brightness
which sounds weird. But increasing the contrast will now increase the brightness but it won't
bleach any of the colours out. If you've got a colour setting obviously just play around
that so it doesn't bleed the colours over. But this is apparently the best way of setting
up the monitor, the prop way of setting up the monitor and I have no idea why they call
brightness brightness but you shouldn't use it as brightness. So go figure. Anyway hopefully
I can get the game over when I finished off soon and you can hear that one next month.
Thank you for listening. If you've got any questions you can email me at zooksorrygmail.com.
That's xray osca kilo aco Sierra osca Romeo uniform at gmail.com or you can visit me at zook.org
xray osca kilo aco dot osca Romeo golf. Thank you for your time and you've been listening
to H.P.R. sponsored by caro.net. So head on over to cary r o dot e c for all of us
