Episode: 842
Title: HPR0842: DJ from h-online.com
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0842/hpr0842.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 03:22:08

---

Thanks.
Hi, this is Ken Hearest, I'll camp a little bit and I'm here with DJ from TheHage.
I'm a dog camp, yes.
Can you tell me what TheHage is?
The Hage is basically a UK publication online.
We specialise in open-source and security.
We've known for about three years.
And we're looking at you.
We hope to get more people reading us because we're actually focused on open-source.
So, what sort of articles would I find if I go to?
That's your website www.hdashonline.com.
Primarily English articles, yes.
Always in English, yes.
We take content from our parent company in Germany,
who publish CT and IX magazine over there,
and do an awful lot of open-source and run various conferences over there for open-source.
But in the UK, for example, a typical day.
Well, let's look at the temporary area.
We've covered the latest in Chrome.
We have problems with the standard DHCP server,
where you can actually bring it to a grinding halt.
The latest version of K, my money.
The fact that the Ubuntu 1011.10 is now definitely going to have Thunderbird on the desktop.
Some news that you don't normally hear.
Univentionally, I've just pushed up their first beta for their new server,
the Linux-based server.
And we come in, I said security, so we have things like the argument between Adobe and Google
over how many bugs were in the last flash update.
All right, yes.
It's like, yeah, stirring it up there.
We cover the enterprisey stuff.
One of the big things we carry is kernel log,
which is written by Torsten Liemhaus from Germany,
which gives you all the information that you've come across
in things like kernel newbies when a new release comes out.
But, A, it comes out regularly,
and B, we give you all the detail in a readable format
for all the Linux releases.
We have that on the day of release,
with this new kernel release.
Oh, fantastic.
You have RSS feed, I guess.
We have RSS feeds, the open-side, the security side,
and the combination of both.
We also have Twitter feeds, so you can catch us on Twitter
at HOnline news.
And you'll actually get the latest news that way.
We also have a HOnline, which is where we pull up
the really special stuff.
So we are really easy to find.
We also have email newsletters.
If you haven't got time.
All the school there.
Old school, and yet somebody came up to me just now,
and said he really likes the newsletter,
because he let them get through all the news in one go.
It's fantastic, actually.
What sort of licenses do you release your content under?
We retain licenses.
We don't give away the content,
because we syndicate them.
Lots of it comes from other sources.
But we're happy for people to take clips,
if they talk to us.
Fair use.
Because somebody's got to make some money somewhere.
And fortunately, we do come across people
who do lift our content without asking.
Yes, we suffer from that here.
We want to be unhappy faces at them.
You do have a small amount of advertising on the site.
We have a bit of advertising on the site, but it's not obnoxious.
One of our design things is that we know people don't like advertising
sitting in the middle of their content,
and we try to make it so that everybody gets a fair shake,
and we're all about the content.
We like people to get information
without somebody being thrown by a flash,
and they're sitting in the middle of a dog chasing balloons.
With a pop-up window to take a survey, no doubt.
Yes.
No, no.
We're very good on that here.
We're running a survey at the moment,
which does not pop up in any way.
Unsurprisingly, and I think it even surprised the people
we're doing survey with.
More people answer it.
One thing we love is that if we treat our readers right,
they'll treat us right,
because we like to give them information
and not mess them around.
We hope people like that.
Fantastic.
So what do you think of Oddcamp as serving your needs?
Oddcamp is a great little event.
We've covered it in the past, actually.
And it's something that it's a proper community event.
It kind of fills in where love radiolive,
what was, which gives us the chaotic feeling
that nobody's exactly sure what's going on.
But it will happen.
What is definitely going to be fun.
Yes.
And this one, you know, I've got to say,
they've had a lovely venue for it.
It was out of England, which is a big plus,
because as some of us, we get you feeling a bit left out
of the tapping in the north all the time.
So it's so far away.
The north is just, it's another country.
It's actually something that we want to,
you know, if you're in the north doing stuff
with open source, do get in touch with us.
One of the things that I didn't mention
is that we do actually run a little thing
called the Community Calendar.
Regularly every month, which is the next month's events
that we can find coming up.
Fantastic.
Actually, do you cover just the UK or...
We cover UK and bits of Europe
that people can get to.
Because there are bits of Europe that I want to hear.
But where it's within range,
and you know, it's not a...
You know, we're debating whether to actually put Prague in there,
because we've got the Linux conference Europe coming up in Prague,
which is like, it's going to be a long train trip
for a lot of people with a dog and a fly.
Yeah, but a squeezy address or flying in all sorts of things.
So, if you actually pull up our calendar here,
you'll see that we're covering details like
the Python conference, Python UK,
because it is actually on,
up in Coventry,
and we're mentioning the BSD conference,
which is running in the Netherlands.
Which is cooler, too, because I didn't even know that was on.
There you go.
So, you see, education already.
Yeah, but we also cover things
like a few bits going on in Manchester,
and there's a camp in our calendar for this month.
Fantastic.
Yeah, we light-cated for the more technically minded as well.
So, yeah, if you look here, we're talking about
a lot of technology-oriented things,
not just the free software,
philosophy or anything.
And we'll take a critical eye to things.
For example, one of our features running at the moment
is a look at how the Linux desktop has failed.
Yeah.
And what a community could do about it
by working together,
but on neutral territory.
Yes, OK.
It's, it's, it's, it's...
Well, the other side of you come and say, imagine.
It's...
If, you know, if the Linux desktop had succeeded,
then we'd walk into a business
and you'd see Linux desktop everywhere.
But we don't.
And part of it's down to the fact that
everybody's relied on commercial companies
to produce that Linux desktop to take out there.
Yeah.
And, and put in.
And what's easy to start relying on a commercial company
to put free software out there,
you have a problem,
because you're relying on their commercial success,
and as soon as a company gets commercially successful,
they can turn into the bad guys,
or the perceived as the bad guys,
for instance, the little Ubuntu.
It's...
Yeah.
That's, that is a fair comment.
And...
That point you lose the community,
as soon as they've lost the community,
they end up in a situation
but they can still do what they've done.
But it doesn't have the impetus behind it.
Okay.
And one thing that we...
The article looks at is the idea of creating,
either within something like the Linux Foundation,
or one of the many organizations,
creating a foundation for desktop Linux,
which creates a community-based desktop Linux,
which uses the reference.
Yeah.
No was there,
but no people lost faith with no.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And if you build a consensus-based desktop,
then maybe everybody can actually get behind it.
But you're so wrong!
What?
I use KDE, so I don't want a unified desktop.
And I would argue that Chrome and...
Sorry, Android is doing that in...
Because it doesn't give you a desktop.
Chrome?
Yeah, but Chrome...
Chrome may do that.
Chrome asks you to...
A browser.
And it's just a browser.
You make a lot of points up.
And that, and more interesting topics,
will be available as www.htheletterhotel-online.com.
Thank you very much for the interview.
I really enjoyed it.
And I hope you have a lot of success and fun here.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
where Hacker Public Radio does our...
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the economical and computer club.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution
at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis,
today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a line,
free those own license.
For more information, please visit www.hacker.com.
