Episode: 936
Title: HPR0936: Monthly Review show 2012 Feb
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr0936/hpr0936.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-08 05:12:02

---

Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Hello and welcome to Hacker Public Radio. This is our monthly review show for February
of 2012. I am Poki, which need tonight is Epicanus, bonus La Chose, and 5150.
Hello and I'm brought to you this evening or I just opened O'Malley's Cream Style Irish A.O.
from Missouri. Oh wait, I forgot this one. Pod Brewers or Linux Outlaws.
I hope they sent you a free one for that plug. Oh, I kind of doubt that they listen.
Epicanus, what's new with you? Anything? Old out a whole lot. I just moved 2000 miles since
my last HPR contribution, which was way too long ago. I'm basically here tonight because I'm guilty
and wanted to contribute something before I get my next contribution out. Cool, cool, sounds
like fun. Okay, so I guess we could get started. First off, we'd like to thank the new hosts from
February. That would be Bob Wooden and Rudolph Cast. They put up some shows this month and they
want to thank them as well as all of our returning hosts. After that, we'd also like to thank
Dan Waschko, who's beginning a new series, the Linux in the Shell series. This is one that I'm
very excited about, not only because it's very good and also because I'm a Dan Waschko fan, but
this is really educational. It's easy to follow along. He's thought he's out very, very well
and he's executed very, very well. This is this is prime content here. This is top of the shelf
stuff. Yeah, I'll have some praise for that when we get to those episodes. I learned a lot from both of
them. And as far as HPR news, stuff that's been going on either in front of everyone or behind
the scenes, if you're not on the mailing list and not following every show, people keep asking
about stickers this year because we did some stickers in the past with past couple of years. We've
done some different stuff. I know that Clot 2 has ordered some stickers this year, not exactly certain
which ones he's ordered. I think it's a modification of one of the older stickers and he's ordered a
bunch and those should be going around to the different conferences and we'll be able to talk
about those conferences then, but there will be some stuff mailed around. Now, if anybody has some
new sticker designs and they want to submit that, maybe for next year's stickers or later this year,
that would be cool too. You can send those to HPR at hackathublicradio.org and be one way to get
to help out is to get us some designs. If anybody wants to print some stickers,
get in touch with us at that same site and we will send you plenty of designs to choose from
that already exists, which is anything you want to say about stickers.
Just that I'm really getting with the new stickers that have been the designs that have been
posted to the mailing list. Yeah, those are absolutely fantastic RF queering. I believe it's Richard
queering has designed several new stickers or album art or whatever I guess we would want to use
them for. They are just, they are mind-bogglingly good. They are really fantastic. We'll have a link
to those in the show notes for anyone who doesn't subscribe to the mail list. You can check them out
there. Yeah, very nice work. I definitely want some stickers from that. Yeah, I, uh,
that or maybe, you know, if people could take those, um, those pings, those images and stick them
on a sheet of eight and a half by eleven paper and make like poll tabs with the, um,
you know, with the act of public radio, the address down bottom on poll tabs, that even that would
be, you know, a great contribution out of the real world. They're perfect for that.
They come to think of it. I think you can buy a blupper sticker stock, laser printers,
you can arrange something with that too, a bit. That's not a bad idea for your own stickers. That's
that's pretty good. Yeah, that's, that's all good stuff. Uh, 5150, I think this brings us
to, uh, that's some news and update about your project, the epic project that's going on.
Oh, there's some, Ben some updates recently. Earlier this month, I compiled the list of the original
host that came over from Ben Raev and talkstankdog and it was basically him and a fellow named
black ratchet, uh, that host Ben Raev, of course, they're both invited and I've already got a
confirmation from stankdog that he's arrested as long as he doesn't have to do any of the editing
or recording. I know that feeling. Yeah, better than anyone, I suppose.
And then I compiled the list of everybody who was involved with today with a techie and the,
first year, 2008, pretty much starts beginning of the year of, uh, HPR. I just want to point out
to Pokey, uh, that you remember last month, I, I was, uh, stretching for term to call these people
who were involved earlier on and I called them luminaries and you said, no, just call them
some bunch of old guys and I, I knew it back then, but I've, I've confirmed it. I feel I should
point out to you that that bunch of old guys you were talking about includes plexi,
uber chick and skirl it. I meant it in the genderless sense of the term.
Right. And you didn't miss a flood by month. Of course, they're, you know, they're all one of the
guys to us, but I don't think I'd want to come up to any of them, call them some bunch of old guys.
So just watch, watch your back at Nelf, I guess is what I'm saying. I don't think I meant to call
them old guys. I just meant that if you gave them two, uh, prestigious, a name, you might scare
some of them off, they might not want to, you know, try that to, I wouldn't want to live up to,
the, the name luminary. That would cause me to say, oh, he's talking about the rest of them.
Well, I did post some analysts that I came up with another name, OH for original hosts. So
maybe that'll be more palatable. Yeah, I liked OH that was pretty good. And the other thing
that I came with came up with, I calculated if we stay with the five episode a week release
structure, then that should put episode 1000 on June 1st. And, uh, that's the one just going to
be sort of compilation of the well wishes and any stories about the early days that people
want to send in. I'll put them all together. And then the panel with the original host, the ones
that I can pull all together, that should be posted on the, uh, 5th of July, the day, the day after
Independence Day. Of course, it'll be recorded a week or maybe two before then, uh, just to make
sure we get it. I'm thinking probably a week. So that should put me after Weed Harvest or at
least where I'm not Russian so much. That's a schedule for when they'll be posted if nothing changes.
Okay, so the, uh, the pre-recorded congratulations show episode 1000. Um, have you received any,
uh, any audio files for that? Not a single one. Yeah, of course, I'm going to start contacting
people, but I, I hate to run up to it three months ahead of time because then you build up,
I had a steam and then by the time you get to it, nobody remembers that they agreed to do anything
or they've become busy. That's why I'm not, you know, just burning to, uh, push all this stuff yet.
So no, I haven't got that and I haven't got anybody that I haven't contacted saying, yeah,
I would like to be on the panel. So you guys know who you are, at least to people who, who are on
the mailing list because I posted that stuff a month ago. Oh, oh, the other thing, our last episode,
this Friday with, uh, Ken and Lord Drakken Blut. Drakken Blut mentioned, uh, Radio Freak America is
a precursor to, uh, HPR and he said towards the waning days of Radio Freak America, they were
organizing HPR and I think maybe he's misremembering a little because why I've been able to look up
RFA ended in 2004 and first episode that I see of HPR is 2008. So I'm wondering if they didn't,
if RFA didn't become Ben Rev and then, uh, Pwattex. So, but still those people are, I'm going to
get a list of names and try to contact them and those hosts for RFA, I'd very much like to have
them included. Yeah, because they're, they're definitely there in the lineage, whether it was,
you know, a direct step or not, they, they're definitely were there. So, um, now let me ask you
this, it's not too early for people to start sending those in would be my guests. So I would
recommend if anybody wants to send in a, you know, congratulatory recording a short one, I'm guessing
is what we're looking for. Um, now's the time to get in before 5150 has to pester you for it.
Right, especially if you don't think, uh, you're, if you're one there is your host, but you don't
think you're going to be able to participate on the panel. If you have a little story about
what happened, this, this is how I decided to become an HPR or Twattex host or these are stories
about how the trials and tribulations that we had, uh, securing hosting or getting any of these
precursor podcasts and HPR itself rolling, you know, I, I would like to have some stories
like that to include, of course, if everybody does a story, uh, who's an HPR contributor and listener
and from the other podcast, then it's going to be another 12 hour show, but I don't think everybody's
going to have something like that to contribute. But if you do, please drop that in there because
otherwise it's just going to be an hour or two hours of, uh, 100 different people saying
congratulations HPR and I don't know how long most listeners are going to want to sit there and
listen to that. So if we could interspersed that with some real, some real stories of the old days
that we haven't heard before, I think that would be great. That would be pretty cool. But even if it's
just people saying, you know, congratulations and, and, and good to hear from you. I like listening
to that kind of thing. I like hearing it just because these are all people who I've listened to
shows from or, or people who haven't even put in shows that I know they're listening to. And it's
just, it's great to hear the community wake up and become active like that. That's, I love that
kind of thing. So even that, I'll listen to. And one other thing, I emailed, uh, Dordardor Geek
a while back because I know knew that he had experience with both mumble and team speak because
before they went to video casting, they always used to use team speak for the multiple host shows on
pod nuts. And I wanted to ask him if one perhaps would support, uh, more simultaneous connections
than the other one. And he said he thought they were both about the same, but I'd positive that I'd
heard maybe the functional limit was about 20 people once on either one. And he really doesn't
think there is a limit. And he, he invited us to test it by all joining the Linux user group
before, uh, Linux basics. And so probably by our review for next month, I'll set a date for that
and what workout with door. And I think it'd be really neat if the listener, you know,
as many listeners and any contributors as possible would take any evening and just drop in on his
server and see if we can kill it dead. Nice. Of course, stay, stay around for Linux basics. Have
a, have a big, huge epic Linux basics as well. Yeah, after we break his server, let's see if
he can get it up and run it again by showtime. That's, that's a fun way to spend a Friday evening.
Well, we were invited to try. So I think we should test his theory. I totally agree. Okay.
Moving right along. We've, uh, we've got some upcoming events that we're going to talk about
at the end after the show review. But let's, uh, let's quickly run through our show review for the
month of February. These are the, the shows that, um, that have aired since the last monthly review.
So first up was Uber League Hacker Force Radio number six by Sig Club. That's, that's part six in
her series. Those are, those are good. And we thank her for that episode nine 18 was how I started
with Linux part two by Frank Bell. I'm enjoying that one just as much as the first episode 19 was
really cool. It was off way off and left field as, you know, compared to some of our normal stuff.
But it was really neat and really interesting was, um, something I cannot pronounce.
Elves, boy, Elves, dead and touched to be or not to be, and basically they were just talking
about a race, a skating race that's done in, uh, is, is it Netherlands? I think so. And, uh,
and whether or not it was going to be held this year. And sadly, I think it was not. I think he said
it wasn't. Is that correct? Okay. I didn't catch that on it. Yeah. I think, um, I don't think that
was on the episode. I think it was an update somewhere else. But yeah, it was, um, I think it was
canceled because it was too warm and the ice is not thick enough, but just learning how they,
how they hold that race and how they prep for it was really something interesting. I thought
so it was like the ice fishing up in the northeast right now in the US. Yeah, those ice fishing,
uh, I've done quite a bit of that and it's, it's odd how one week you'll have a foot of ice and
the next week you've got not enough to walk on in a week after you've been out of foot. It just
it, it really, it depends on weather and water movement and how much snow you get and
it's, uh, it's very strange. Well, I'm on the translated webpage and it says the last trip was held
on January 4, 1997. Yeah, it's, it takes a lot. They said they need a lot of ice to make it work.
Where, you know, there might be enough ice there for, you know, people to walk on and skate on,
but not enough for how many thousands do that. So it was, uh, yeah, I know we're fumbling around
the facts here and probably getting them half wrong, but if you haven't listened to show 9-1-9,
that was a, that was good. You should, you should head back and listen to that for the actual
details of it. Uh, show 9-20 was talked to me, newscast by Deep Geek. Now I am finding these
episodes to be incredibly informative. These are things that this is news. I haven't even gotten
from my other weird odd news websites and and feeds that I go to. I don't know where he's
finding this stuff, but this is some great, great information. I'm glad he's, he's back and I'm
glad he's brought this with him. Oh, it's good stuff. Thank you very much. And, and if anybody is a,
you know, like a fan of alternative news type stuff, if you're like a no agenda listener,
or you're like a Dan Carlin listener, and you want to talk, you want to, you want to hear the news
that they're not talking about that, you know, that relates to us to our technology and stuff.
Deep Geek is bringing it. So that's, that's good stuff. Episode 9-21 was a tag team chase Douglas
interview with Alison Haitian, hosted by Marco Z. And this, that was, that was very, very interesting
to episode 9-22, updating a Garmin GPS for free was Riddlebox's episode. I think that was his,
no, I don't remember how many he's done. I know it wasn't this first. It was good. I enjoyed it.
I almost bought a Garmin GPS after listening to that. Just the last minute I backed out of it,
but that was good. It's too bad, you know, since Garmin is such a nice device that pretty much
everybody's an iPhone or Android phones already have most of that functionality built in. And
it's probably one of those technologies that might not be around much longer. Yeah, my old
Garmin is in a box somewhere still. I just been using my code. Yeah, see, I, I think a standalone GPS
is a fantastic device. I really, really like them. I understand the phones being more up to date
and tap it into different resources, but I really like the idea of a standalone GPS, something
that lives in the car, something with a bigger screen. And you know, for the operated one hand,
I don't know, I've, I've used the Tom Tom and I really like the Tom Tom. I haven't used the Garmin,
so I don't know about that. And I haven't used one on the cell phone. The only other one I had was a
one of the ones that was available on the Nokia N810. And the Tom Tom really beats the heck out of it
for navigation. Yeah, I don't know. I like the standalone GPS I like. And if I could jump back on
on the interview that and the ones on the X developers conference that posted this summer,
I found those fascinating and I didn't expect to. I kind of a lot of times I skip over the
coding podcast, even though I used to be a programmer. I'm not in that much anymore, but I've just
all of them been chock full with information about how X works. And I've just found it very interesting.
Yeah, I've, I've never been a programmer either, but when I hear these, you're right, those two
episodes. When I hear them, I take little bits and pieces away with me that I can understand.
And it helps me to just to understand the Linux system a little bit better. You know, there's
stuff you, you know, you've never, or I'd never heard of before. You know, it's not completely useful
to me because I'm not a programmer, but it's really cool to understand that people are looking into it.
And just to appreciate that people are doing that kind of work, you know, on the stuff that we
that we use every day. And I'm, I'm staring at a screen here with, you know, eight open windows on
it and windows with 12 tabs in them. And you click on anything and stuff just shows up in front of
my face like magic. But really, it's the hard work at these people. And it is good to be reminded
of that. You're absolutely right. Okay. Next one was episode 923 12 gazillion buttons. And I,
I know he knows, and everybody else may not know that the Linux outlaws forms from sort of my
first social home on the internet for to talk about open source. And I've, through that, I've
been acquainted with Jesra and NY Bill for quite some time. And I always enjoy seeing their posts.
And, you know, I could probably listen to him reading the phone book and enjoy that.
Yeah, they're fun guys. I bumped into him and met them in passing last year at Northeast Linux
best. They had a lot of fun there too. And they were good guys. Well, I think you met NY Bill. I
don't think Jesra was. You would remember Jesra if you'd seen him. Okay. Yeah. I know I met a
bunch of those guys from the area from that. There's a bunch of names that kind of go together. And
why feel when to go? What's there? I know I remember needing when to go. A couple of it. Yeah. Yeah.
You're probably right. Well, Jesra is known. Well, I mean, he's known for a lot of things,
but he has these truly epic sideburns that just you're probably not going to meet anybody
like him again. Nice. Nice. Okay. After that was episode 1924 was Dan's first Linux in the
Shell episode. Dan watched those first Linux in the Shell episode on redirection. And man,
if that didn't clear some things up for me that I just could not wrap my head around that that
was very useful information. I liked that a lot. If anybody's looking for his shows specifically
from the hacker public radio main page, you could click on the host's link. And Dan is spelled
with two ends, though else where he's known as Dan Washgo. Not here. He's just double and Dan.
Right. And of course, Dan was one of the original hosts from HPR and farther back to today with
a techie. And I'm sure he's expecting me to contact him about joining the epic podcast. So he's
one of the guys I would really like to have on there on this episode. I had it on last night. I
told you, Pokey, that I listened about the last weeks. And since I talked to Ken about five
called last night and with the high speed running rock box, interestingly, Dan sounds about the same
same at normal speed and the 200 percent. But I was kind of listening to that while I was cleaning
that last night. And I was, you know, it was kind of stuff. I thought, well, I can just
listen to this one here because it's things I thought I already knew. But they started talking
about the different symbols, the output standard error and things clicked for me because about,
oh, four months ago, I was on the hash fedora IRC channel trying to figure out a problem I was
having. And they have a paste bin built into the fedora where you run stuff from the command line
and automatically generate a new paste bin. But my I was get everything but the errors at the end.
And I was having to copy those manually. And now I understand after or was reminded after listening
to Dan that that's the reason that the standard output is getting redirected to the paste bin,
but standard error wasn't. Yeah, I had no idea about some of those things standard error. I didn't
even know if this that was that was news to me. And and and just the redirection in general was
great the way he laid that out. Okay. And episode 925 was another episode of talk geek to me
tech news by the geek 926 was heresies in the year of the apocalypse episode one computer languages
by mr. gadgets always mr. gadgets is incredible listen to yeah he really is there were a lot of fun
and that one that one was especially fun because he was talking about how at the time of his
recording it was still 2011 and he was hoping that he would get it out by the end of January and
here it was quite near the end of February that this one was aired so that that was a little
ironic and I hope you he appreciated that well I've got one still in my hard drive that I've
then I'm editing it will probably be a couple on work that I've done fixing my systems this week
that'll probably beat him into the queue. Episodes 927 setting up a word press blog part one
hosted by Frank Bell that was another good one I like hearing from Frank Bell I think that was
his first one that wasn't like a how I found the next or our history type show which which I
loved anyway but that was um yeah as far as the technical and instructional side of podcast and
goes I think that was his first one for that and it was it was very listable very enjoyable and
informative so thank you yeah that really made the setting up word press so much less intimidating
for me of course I've already got a Drupal based blog that I'm using a service to do it and
set it up myself like that's that's the one I'm still editing yeah I want to thank Frank
so I went because I want to learn all the major development tools and when I come to word press
and saying that up on my local server I have here I'm going to go straight back to his podcast
another thing I pulled out I thought is interesting he mentioned no IP is his hosting site that
provided him with a domain of course that for free I'm I'm certain off to check into I'm certain
that's not a top level domain but that was something else I pulled out of there I really need to
research yeah I may or may not be using no IP for for one small website that I have but yeah
it's it's not a top level on either you're right but it's it's a good one to look into next on
the list episode nine twenty eight my Linux adventure part one hosted by Bob wouldn't this was his
first contribution so it got bumped to the front of the queue just as your show begun to the front
of the queue queue contribute the first new show so thank you to Bob for that that was that was
really fun to listen to nine twenty nine was the night cast story time episode by night wise and
that one was really fun too the the way he talked about sitting down close your eyes listening
in and he tell you a little story that was that was unique and fun to listen to nine thirty was
another episode of talk to me tech news by deep geek nine thirty one the rat poison window manager
by root outcast this was his first show and it was some I didn't really know anything about the
rat poison window manager other than it probably has the best name of any window manager so this
one was good to hear about a well and I also did it pretty much use it without the mouse which he
was talking about right this laptop I'm building under arch I don't think I don't think I'll try
rat poison but I am gonna try awesome with it which I think is a descendant or at least a cousin
to rat poison maybe in a month I'll be able to tell you something more about that type window
manager yeah I believe that you're correct about that I believe that awesome is a direct descendant
of rat poison and even be a fork of it we should ask Peter 64 he seems to be the awesome window
managers number one marketing director and advertiser he's pimping out all the time it's hard to
say awesome window manager without it actually being a shout out to Peter 64 so I don't mention
him anyway episode nine thirty two programming languages number one this was by garjola I think
this is the one you wanted to say something about fifty on fifty well I just wanted to point out
this is one of the higher level graduate courses that took us under graduate I spent a semester
with exactly this same material and I'm not sure that there was any more information in that
entire semester of college then what garjola presented to us yeah this one struck me particularly
we don't get a lot of scripted episodes where where you can tell that the person who is
recording the episode has taken a time to write out everything and is reading it from a script
and this was one and he clearly was reading from a script that he didn't stumble or anything
like that and it's far and I like scripted episodes as well as I like off the cuff episodes
but I wanted to say that as far as the scripted episodes go this was one of the most well written
and well bought out and most well conceived episodes that I've heard not just on HBR but anywhere
he has a real gift for scripting an episode I hope he keeps that out because it was really
enjoyable really educational just hearing about the different languages was so cool I think the only
language that I've ever heard of that he didn't mention is it Valat I think is one of the newer ones
I'd like to hear his take on that compared to the rest of these because I've heard some people talk
that one up and say it's you know pretty good but yeah it was what a great episode that one
really blew me away well kind of my take on Val and I think Mr. Gadget sort of hit it on that is
oh when you look at a distribution there's thousands of them out there or well hundreds but there's
a dozen that are sort of your core distributions and when you there's a lot of neat things in
all the variations but when you install one on a production machine I tend to want to say well I
want a distribution I know it's still going to be there in two years so I stay pretty close to
the core ones and run the interesting ones in a VM and I think that can make this kind of extrapolated
to Val I think from the description I'd really like to get into that and learn it but I think the
support right now is a lot more behind something like Python yeah I know I understand I totally get
that that that it hasn't been around probably long enough or hasn't got the attention that it needs
yet to get the attention if that makes any sense it hasn't had that kind of snowball effect yet
I just meant the way that that Carjole would describe all of the different programming languages that
he covered I'd like to hear that kind of that kind of research and unbiased conclusions going
to to Val as well I'm just what I'm saying really is I'd like Carjole to do a follow-up episode
and and point out some of these other maybe newer obscure ones just because I like to show so much
right and I'd add in if you if somebody would like to go back and pick up on some of what I guess
we call the function of the dead languages the ones that aren't being used a whole lot anymore
I took a semester of cobalt ball and I got in the school right when they were actively trying to
kill it when I when I was in the computer science cobalt was over in the business and I really didn't
ever get into the toys out of school I took a semester at a junior college locally to pick up on
because there seemed to be that seemed to be there were still a lot of jobs in that arena but they
never could get enough people to run the second semester of the cobalt class and you had to have
both of them really to go out and get employment at least have that much yeah it sounds like kind
of the way that Linux is admins are in demand right now okay so moving along episode 933
freedom is not free number one introduction via hookah this was a really fantastic episode it
is many times as I hear the story of Richard Stallman and how he began the free software movement
I never get sick of it I am a big fan of Richard Stallman and what he stands for and what he does
to me he's a great man and I love hearing about him I love hearing about the freedom that is
free software and you know this this topic I am in favor of I am a fan of it yeah that new stuff
is kind of important if you want to run something besides the kernel yeah it sure is and that
free stuff is kind of important if you want to run something at all and and give something at all
to friends and family members yeah definitely that's one of the main reasons I ever got into
free software to begin with was it pretty quickly became obvious that they were granting me the
specific right to take the software and help friends with it you know and and help people out
with it was with windows you know the best you can do is try to put a patch on something
while it's breaking down you know and you know with Linux you can say here's a working system
and I am allowed to help you with this I'm allowed to give you what you need here it's just
it's such a fantastic thing so hey learning to reboot is educational yeah and learning to watch
your virus scan run for two and a half hours and and watch your defrag happen for another
you two hours it's great fast hard drive that's one of the worst parts about XP when there's XP
and the later ones is that they they took the way to screen that lets you watch the defrag happen
blocked by block so they basically leave you wondering if anything's actually happening
yeah yeah it used to used to you'd stare and stare and stare and all of a sudden the whole big
chunk would turn blue and go oh it's done it they should never have gotten rid of that
and that will be in some kind of a tile or something with it with those eight things
yeah right okay so episode 934 uh Linux in the shell again by Dan Washco and this was this
episode was on a command line program called qr and code which is how you make two well at least
one of the ways I don't know if it's moment one but it is a way of making qr codes on Linux man
I thought I knew a little bit about qr codes now I realize I didn't until here in Dan's episode
this was some fantastic this was really good especially you know because we had those those
books of qr codes last year at some of the in a going around to the Linux fast and if we I believe
we'll have them again this year and yeah it was really really cool thanks a lot Dan it was great
yeah qr code looks like something that has a lot of potential uses beyond what people
tend to use them for yeah especially Dan talked about just how many characters you could put
in a qr code would be a large qr code no doubt that the physically large but still the just the
fact that you could put so much data into one really opens the door to some neat ideas yeah people
only seem to use them for for loading websites into their phone but you can put any arbitrary
text in them so there's all kinds of things you can do with them right and they've also started to
see some uh security exploits with the qr code so you want to make real sure where the code is
coming from i'm surprised people haven't pranked people by printing their own qr code on a sticker
for something that's not necessarily what people are expecting and going around and sticking them
on signs and posters but no I had no idea that the amount of information was uh an air correction
was so deep on these and even though that the files included right now are set up to be text files
I wouldn't be surprised you you guys have probably heard on the ten full hats show where cafe
ninja occasionally talks about the command line utilities to embed a message in a jpeg and retrieve it
and with the amount of information available in the qr code I would I would think that would certainly
lend itself to exactly the same thing you could post a qr code that everybody not looking
for certain information they would only see a web link or wherever you want them to see and then
anybody who knew how to decrypt the code would be able to get something entirely different out of it
yeah it makes me think that it's probably not long until we see like perhaps poetry
embedded in a qr code and stenciled up on a wall somewhere you know once that becomes
popular you get two or three or four of those on the same wall and then right next to it you get
like a python script that's gonna you know take your phone over and root your phone for you
or some such thing I've always thought it'd be interesting to put geographic coordinates at a time
stamp for meeting times right there could be all kinds of implications for this I think you could
add it to geocaching or something like that uh you find the right place and here's a couple
than extra special prizes in there just scratching the surface of this one okay so episode nine
thirty-five was the last one before this show this is a Monday show and this would have been
Fridays nine thirty-five would have been Fridays not Indiana Linux Fest and this one was hosted
by Ken Fallon I believe it was an interview show yeah with Florida and Blue and uh we're talking
about the Indiana and Linux Fest that's that's called coming up on April 13th to 15th and uh
wind him Indianapolis or well at the wind him Indianapolis West that's the hotel so it's in Indian
apolis free to attend right if you're in that area anywhere near that area you you need to get to
it and listen listen to the cast of four of the activities and speakers I was just I wish I was
close enough to get to anything and I did want to put out there roll kind of on on the topic a lot of
people who uh hang out on cast plant now I'm I'm sitting out here in the middle of Kansas and it
seems to me that I'm the only Linux user in the entire state and I would very much like somebody to
contact me and disabuse me of that notion I was I don't have a lot of time to get away in the plan
for something like that but if we could just get a uh uh gate-knit together sometimes so
if you're out here in Kansas and you're listening to these podcasts and you think you're the only one
drop me an email yep and and uh you can give a trony email address or if not there's hpr at hacker
public radio dot org is the mailing list and I know 5150s on there well you the easy way right now
of course it's the abuse of the address it's ep one k so it's Edward Papa the numeral one
Kansas at hacker public radio dot org will come to my mailbox otherwise directly it's uh 5150
all written out no dashes no spaces at uh Linux basement dot com cool very cool and speaking of
events there were a couple that have gone by already this year scale has gone by in January and
to the best of my knowledge we had nobody there representing and we had nobody there recording so
I don't think we'll have anything from scale in the hpr feed in February there was paused in the
free and open source software developers european meeting and that one Ken was supposed to be at
he had some stuff come up some personal stuff that kept him away from there unfortunately
the same was true uh was it nightwise was nightwise was over then yeah I think you're right yeah
and he he had also had something come up our next chance at an event is today it's sip x collab
and this is in Fort Collins Colorado so if anyone's in that area wants to go record some stuff
before us or do some interviews or get some coverage or you know hand out the url somehow
that would be a great one to be at march 5th 2012 from it looks like 8am to 5pm and that's the
the people putting that on are the sip foundry dot org folks basically what they do is they're trying
to put together the only free and large scale sip implementation so they're they're working on
on stuff that we'd all be interested in this was on boss events dot org is where this is if you've
got an event and we're not talking about it tonight please get over to http colon to front slashes
fast events dot org f o s s e b n t s dot org and post your event up on there so we can cover it
in the next show on 317 which is coming up pretty fast march 17 is the northeast canoe Linux
fest on that's out in in Worcester Massachusetts not warchester it's Worcester it's only spelled
warchester and that's going to be that that should be fun i'm definitely going to be out there
several other guys are going to be out there i'm not sure who else is it isn't definitely coming
but i will be there at the approval from my wife and that's all i need to make it 100% certain
gonna hang with told the flily this year yeah i was hoping i'd be able to get there myself
there so i don't think i'm gonna be able to we'll find out well if you can it'd be great to see it
yeah so for the northeast linux fest this is what glad to he's ordered some stickers for that
uh for all them anyway uh so once that's over as soon as that's done and i break down the booth
i will be sending those along to the next linux fest that we know of and that's going to be
linux fest northwest that's on april 28 and 29 and david witman is he's taking the lead on that one
he's going to represent hpr for us over there if you can help david out either get in touch with him
on the hpr mailing list or email him directly david glenn with two ends witman at gmail.com david gl enn
w-h-i-t-m-a-n at gmail.com and uh and please give him a hand at linux fest northwest
what's missing from from this year oh indian linux fest right is it also an april secret
yeah april 13 to 15 okay so they yeah april 13 to 15 that's not on on our list here yeah okay so
it's it's not up on boss events dot org that's what's on our list and the last one that we know of
that's on our list to talk about september 28 through the 30th is ohio linux fest we have not
got anyone yet who's uh volunteered to help us out with that or to represent over there so
if you're interested in leading that up just send an email over to a mailing list and tell us
that you owe the contact and you'll be it it's uh that's all you need to do i guess right now there's
they still have uh call for talks out for ohio linux fest so if you're interested in presenting
over there give them a shout out and we'll have links for all these in the show notes you know
head on over to hackerpublicradio.org and check out the show notes for all this information
also south east linux fest uh june 8 in charlotte north carolina june 8 charlotte north carolina
that's what i'm seeing here on their page south east linux fest dot org i figure if we didn't
mention at davia to come out of wherever he's been hiding and beat us for sticks yeah i'd like to
hear from davia it's that's not a one day fest though is it that's going to be eight nine
content to be my guests yeah i said eight ten oh sorry yeah you broke up pretty bad when you were
talking i was those trying to guess at the blanks and i guess south east linux fest is
seems to be anyway it's gonna that's gonna be the big one this year so uh you know if you can make
it to only one and it isn't going to be northeast to new one expressed because that's the one i'll
be at then uh by hooker by crook get to to south east linux fest that seems to be the the big one
expressed in the states this year uh it used to be that olf was the primary one and that maybe
he's still the most prestigious one but every recount that i've heard it is that self is the uh
is the most fun out of the big ones yep that's what i keep here and to i've been trying to get to
a linux fest for years i haven't succeeded yet but i'm working on it yeah i've only been to one
and i pretty much hosted the hpr table the whole time i it's uh it's so one talk i think
and got one interview in and the rest of the time i was just doing the hpr table and it was still a blast
and of course there's the the after party and uh it was a fun and i was just hitting the man
con page and it looks looks like there it's not going on this year uh if i'm if i'm in the right
place magnicon.info uh i mean this has been clear over recent weeks that will be impossible for us
to devote time to planning magnicon due to large number of other responsibilities and commitments
and uh that's one k5 was involved in last year and it didn't come off then either so that's that's
too bad because that might be the closest one to me in Missouri. It's a bummer it's always said to
you when one of these fest doesn't go on and uh and like we said already if you have a
boss event that's going on get over to boss events dot org put it on their calendar
so that we can give it a little bit in the next month's show and i think that's it for me that's
all i've got on our show notes here um heavy do you guys get anything else you want to cover before
we sign off. No no think so i just want my voice back so i can get recording again. Yeah i'm
sure i'll think of 10 things that'll come to me in the minute uh we sign off but they can wait
till next month. Cool very cool so then i'd just like to close by saying thank you to all of our
new hosts um you know hbr wouldn't exist without people coming out of the woodwork and posting
their shows and it's it's really fantastic to see it when it happens i want to thank all of our
returning hosts um because by far the majority of the shows are people's second or more
shows so that the folks who would be returning to hpr to put out more than one show uh you are the
bread and butter of hacker public radio you are what makes this work and uh it could not exist
without people stepping up and returning and doing more shows so thank you so much for that
i want to thank everyone who's listening it hr is really for you it's for the listener
the it's for me as a listener it's that's why i'm here too so thanks for listening we'll see you
next month we hope it's not a good month the hpr shows for you thanks a lot and have a good day
good night everybody you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by a hpr listener like yourself
if you ever considered recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy it really is
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infinomicon computer cloud
hpr is funded by the binary revolution at binrev.com all binrev projects are proud to sponsor
by lunar pages from shared hosting to custom private clouds go to lunarpages.com for all your
hosting needs unless all the lights stated today's show is released under a creative comments
attribution share a like free dot o lights
