Episode: 1981
Title: HPR1981: HPR Community News for February 2016
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1981/hpr1981.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 12:52:12

---

This is HBR Episode 1981 entitled HBR Community News for February 2016 and is part of the series
HBR Community News. It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 87 minutes long. The summary is
HBR Community News for February 2016. This episode of HBR is brought to you by
An Honesthost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15. Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to Hacker Public Radio. Hacker Public
Radio is a community podcast letter which means that like in bar camp there are no fixed
agendas and there are no fixed speakers. Anybody is more than welcome to step up to the plate,
record a show and submit it to Hacker Public Radio. To bring everybody up to speed about what's
going on on the mail list, run down on the previous shows welcoming you hosts. We have once a month
a HBR community news show which is open to any member of the HBR community, both active participants
who submit shows and people who listen to come along and join and talk. Shoot the breeze,
so to speak. Joining me tonight shooting the aforementioned breeze is Mr Dave Morris Howe Dave.
Again, I'm great. Thanks. How are you? I am fine. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
Made all the better by the addition of three new members to our community of hosters
as in people who have submitted shows. Would you like to introduce them although I probably would
manage not to butcher them this month? Okay, I'll do my traditional role as it seems to be anyway.
We have much to do later on.
Nacho Jordi is the first one, which is a good name. I like that.
John Doe. I wonder if it's his real name or his handle? Either way,
cool name. No idea. No, I don't know his mom if it is a real name.
Yeah, cool. John Doe, as I said, who's a name I've come across before, I can't remember where.
It's a American job, job logs. It's a American version of job logs. If somebody doesn't have a name,
they get introduced. I was, I was being, being, being facetious. That could be his real name, you know.
It could be really, it's entirely possible. A massive amount of trouble if he ever does get hit by a bus.
And the, the speech synthesis has terrible trouble with the third host,
his handle is mirror-shade shades, I think. But it's, it's in leaked,
leaked speaker. I was surprised you didn't do, you didn't put that into your said expression
to turn stuff into lead speak. I might be one good example. You've, you've been looking at my notes,
haven't you? I have a deal. I have a few comments about your North standard.
Okay.
Anyways, can you hear me still? Yeah. So the first show of last month was the HBR
community news, which we recorded. The audio quality was absolutely terrible.
But yes, I don't know what it was. Just all my recordings last month were just terrible,
terrible, terrible, terrible. Well, we've been expecting a lot of a, of a Zoom recorder, I think,
what we're trying to get like three people at different places around one of those guys.
And they're a bit directional, are they? Are they not? Is that not what it is? Well, I just
think I didn't say it all properly. And what really killed it was that small mini fridge thing.
It was just at the same height that I was going, it is what it is. Any recording is better than
no recording from one of our many models here in HBR. Indeed. There is a comment on that,
which Mike Ray says, XML Starlet, yes, please, Ken, there are lots of folks here. It would be
interesting to hear about XML Starlet. Anything else you can share about XML. Various,
he's used various X-Path parsers, various programming languages, two kids' frages,
and never got the groups with DOM type parsers. And I continually annoyed that X-Path
isn't a validating parser. Anything you can tell me about all the ways to work with XML will be
cool. I think XML is a great thing. You can put it on a box markdown. One of the important things
to happen online publishing, that exchange for decades. It's okay. I can't compare Marktone
with the huge importance of XML, but I think anything is flexible. That is based on pure text,
which is great. Okay. I agree with him about XML Starlet. Yes, so you've got my vote.
I've started a text file in my HPR shows directly. That is not a problem.
But it's, as you know, it is a, where the start and you have to go back. Well, if somebody's
talking about XML Starlet, you need to know X-Path. If you need to know X-Path, you know,
you need to know about how different types of parsers work. And if you need to know how different
types of parsers work, you need to know about how XML is written. And if you need to talk about
XML, you need to go back and write, say, describe how XML is and what's the difference between
XML and Marktone. So yes, I'm starting, but it's going to be a long journey. Yes, yes. I do know,
I feel your pain, because I started on a vim thing, if you recall, and I've got really bogged
down in that one. I really have to get back to it, but boys, you don't realize what you're taking
on necessarily. And the problem with this is that I just, I'm not necessarily a big fan of
XML, although, yeah, you work without anything long enough, you begin to see it. And you know,
I'm really, as you know, Dave, I approach a problem problem, I will fix the problem and then
I'll walk away from the problem. And my, I just realized how little XML I actually know after all
this time, but Annie. Yeah, I, again, sympathize. But on the other hand, I should say to myself,
as a word to anybody else is basically try and do as much as you can. And if there are bits,
you don't know, just put the shout out for if people know more about this particular topic,
they should do a show about it in that way. We can add it to a series. Indeed. Yes, make a start
at least exactly. Annie show, if it ain't on the server, it ain't a show. There you go. Another model.
Well, yes, okay, the next day we had FastM, K-Building, Level 1, Group B and C,
which is CSR2DRLM, Gloucester, Openvert, OpenVZ, free software for an action, ReactOS,
BerryOS, Debian, PostSQL, OpenMondriver, Maggio, and Gen2. All interviews?
Indeed. What does one say? It's a magnum opus on your part and some fascinating stuff.
I just picked out the ones that really interested me, but you know, I can comment on Postgres,
sounded great, and Owen Mandriver, Maggio, and Gen2 sounded fascinating, but I shouldn't be
selective. It was a great, great series of interviews. Again, with these, I don't really take
any credit other than the fact that it's a lot of work to do it, and it's a lot of work to edit it,
mostly getting the information for the links. This is one of the shows where I tried to push out
the bolt on show notes so that people can jump to a particular section and play,
when they press the interview, they play their own interview rather than having to listen through,
whole-go stuff or skip forward to a particular period of time, and it's important also to get
the Twitter handles and all that stuff in. But again, the whole thing was, these are the people
who are a foster, it is just really easy, you just say, hi, blah, tell me about the project.
Yes, it's still a lot, though I've seen you struggling through that through the day.
Exactly, the first day we had a, we won't stop on each of these, but the first day we had a,
we were two days, and then the first day we had, I was there for one, after the opening speech,
while I did the BST interview first, which came out as last, but
Leonard Pottering, one, talk I went to, which turned out to be a bit of a disappointment I
taught myself. Yes, and now that people said the same, I think.
And so then, from then, the whole way through the day, I didn't even go to the restroom or
have water or a sandwich or anything. Thankfully, the following day, you made sure I had food, so that
was excellent. I had no idea that you were so desperately in need of a sandwich or something
the first day. I apologize for not even asking. No, not a worry, but I really wanted to get
everyone, and I was trying to keep it short, but you know, when you've got interesting people,
what can you do, except ask them, there's a certain amount of questions that you have to ask.
They're interesting people, and you have to do just just to the project, so you've got to,
you're sitting there and you're thinking of the people who are listening to this, and you have
to ask the questions that they would be asking, and then it's as long as it's going to be.
But surprisingly, there was only about two hours that wasn't, you know, that wasn't
downtime where I was collecting their names and stuff, going from boot to boot, so in all that,
so that was pretty high efficiency recording to walking around.
Cool, yeah, pretty nice. And then, of course, I come home and I realized that there was a whole
other section, because they had two sections in the K building, the Grand Floor and the top floor,
and then the AW building, and then in the H building, last year there was only a book,
or a rally book, so I thought I won't bother going over there. And then I was coming home, I was
realizing, hey, this is a whole go of missing people here. And then there was one guy with a,
you know, the 3D printed laptops, and he came over to his own specification. I had a half an hour
interview of him, I cannot find his head, I can't find anywhere, I have two recorders, and two backup
sansus, and the H2, and I cannot find the recording. And that's a real shame. And also then with the
with the other interview, then we had with RMS from the night before, it's all I can see an hour
and a half of it there, but only 45 minutes come out in the feed, but we can talk about that
later. Shall we go through some of the comments? Yes indeed. So yeah, I'll start this time
on 1957, which we were just talking about, Mike Ray, congrats to you, saying great job, Ken,
and Mick's bag of responses from those distros you asked about, what was they?
I think it's a short term for accessibility. I knew what you meant, but I never come across that
way, I've expected. No, the most, shall I read this all out? It's quite long. I'll just
summarize. Yeah, he's basically saying that people are still not fully recognising the issue of
accessibility, and sort of being embarrassed about being asked about it, I think.
And he's making the point that it's a big good idea to get people to try and use these things
you're wearing a blindfold. Yeah, that's an excellent point. That was an idea that I profored, but
I really did want to bring up accessibility with all the tables, make sure that it's something
that's discussed, but from their point of view, your developer and your working on your one particular
thing, and from your point of view, perhaps you do spend a lot of time on accessibility or perhaps
you do spend a lot of time on visual thinking perhaps you spend a lot of time working on
whatever. So they, I think there's a gap there, and I'm going to have a good serious think about
that between now and next year, about how we can most productively bring the message across,
because there are, as I said in the thing, there's lots of people. Nobody is anti-accessibility.
It's just, I think, perhaps we need to get the message out here and we need to bring
something like freedesktop.org. We should have like openaccessibility.org or something
that is not focused on building a distro, it's not focused on this, that's on the next thing.
It's just a way to help people communicate and to what people in touch with, you want to log
in accessibility, but you're running a bog. You come into a bog with accessibility. Is it a KD1?
Is it a Fedora one? Is it an Ubuntu? Where do you, where, which is the right place to put that
bog in? That would be handy. Yeah, yeah. It's a sort of awareness raising process, isn't it? But
people will, if it's pointed out to them, say, oh, yeah, yeah, well, we haven't really
catered for that, but it should be something that's in their minds much earlier on in the chain,
isn't it? Yeah, there's that, but there's also, you know, from the developer's point of view,
there are presentations out there already given us a foster term last year about accessibility
and how you can check accessibility in your application. So that's technically covered,
but I think what would be beneficial is for, okay, how can you as a sighted person or as a
non-impaired person help with accessibility? Thing number one is I turned on accessibility,
and in KDE5, because Jonathan Dell says, yeah, if you just go and you click it on and it's
successful. And yes, I did that. I turned it on and it becomes accessible. And what you hear is
frame text, nothing else. That's on the screen. Okay, now I know I have a bug. And I know the
developer who wrote that, how can read the presentation that another developer gave a foster term
two years ago saying, okay, here's how, here's how you, you know, you don't call anything text. You
have to say, this is the password box, rather than text box one. This is the, sorry, this is the
username box, rather than text box one. This is the password box, rather than, you know,
password box two. And you have to take into account the flow that the screen reader is going to go
like if it's a table. So rather than going, you know, rather than going percentage one, two,
four, five, five, then, you know, I don't know football score, Arsenal Liverpool, rather than
rather than gone Liverpool 11144424, you know, depending on the order that which you read the table,
it makes no sense or makes a lot of sense. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's like tab order and that sort of
thing is exactly. So that stuff is there, but making developers aware that that stuff is there,
that's a job for somebody. And now somebody making also aware of regular society people that you
can help accessibility. In fact, you're the people who should be helping with accessibility because
for a blind person and they hear tab, they don't see that there are four other boxes on the screen
that don't have anything filled in because they can't see them. So you need to be the one
filing the bugs, but you've never done anything with accessibility before. So who do you call?
Where do you go? Well, you go to somebody and you log a bug and well, you know, then you get the
the regular old problem with free and open source software. Whereas it is a downstream or upstream
or which project is supposed to be looking at a DFI load under accessibility and in Debian,
the process for filing accessibility bugs as this in Fedora, the process for filing accessibility bugs
as that. So it would be handy for people. You have you have to come up with a website or something,
you have you have found a problem with accessibility. Click here. What is it? It's in Fedora. Click,
it's in KD, click, it's here in this, it's in this application. Click, click, click. This is where
you need to report the bug. This is the contact person that you need to talk to about it. I mean,
that was just kind of where I am now with the minute in thinking about this. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay, Mike had another comment for a comment basically about, you know, basically what I said,
at length there. And he's wondering about whether the react to S guys are going to get
around to reverse engineering, they windows accessibility stack, which would be an interesting one
to do actually. Indeed. Okay, sorry for boring you to that there Dave. We'll move on to the next one,
which is Fedora, open suze, lumos, el ilummanos. I have to say that right because it was brought up
on putting in a hatred or something in there. Aunt loud, enlightenment, Tyson, collab,
kiddie and liberal office. Some cool stuff here actually. Yeah,
it's, yeah, I'm lost my place here. Yeah, open cloud was, I chatted to the open cloud man
and they're very pushy. Have you tried it yet? Yeah, my answer is no, but a collab looked amazing
too. That was, that was good. And I really enjoyed your discussion with Aaron Saigo, that was the,
that was the highlight of this one for me. I was, I was actually pretty impressed with, you know,
obviously Red Hat talking again to Fedora and their team, they really are a very professional
type of organization. They had a good answers to the accessibility questions. I was impressed
with Sarah from the open suze foundation. And I think a lot of people, you know, there was a lot
of discussions about getting more of the female hackers out and about. And I think a lot of people
met in a lot of effort to get their, there seemed to be a lot more female hackers around this year.
People probably met in concerted efforts to encourage their female hackers to come out and
make sure that they were giving a positive view that, you know, there are all walks of life
in this particular project and get involved. So that's something you noticed as well.
Oh, absolutely. Yeah, yeah. Having a daughter who's trying to be a scientist, I tend to look for
the sort of male-female ratio because she's, she's very strong on this, you know, her future role
as a, as a scientist and so forth. So yeah, it's, it didn't, didn't seem to be too bad. I don't
know what she would have made of it, but seemed okay to me. Well, it was in 50-50, but some of the
projects, each of the projects seemed to have met a concerted effort to, that they had developers
who are professional, professional developers working for the team, long history of working on
the team and they were there. There were also female females among those, among that group.
What about the Tizen thing and the Enlightenment thing was quite interesting that they were
working together, which is also nice. Nice. I really loved personally the Tizen pavals
discussion about the automatic testing stuff that they developed, which is really cool. I'm
looking forward to the Tizen forms being open and by that, I mean, available because the ones
that have been released so far have been, it seemed to be very locked down. So I would like to get
my hands on one of their forms. There seemed to be like proper Linux devices. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Just jumping on to the KDE stuff. I was most impressed. I know you mentioned this to me
while we were there, actually, but the business of activities in KDE, which has always been a bit
of a mystery, and it seemed to become a lot clearer as a result of your interviews there,
as to what it was for. Yeah, exactly. We got the breaking news. We got the KDE, I was a new one,
was it? The KDE, that's right. KDE was just launched. He said, hey, I just turned it on there
right now. As we come up, so we had a breaking story here in HPR. But it seems I'm very tempted.
I was just telling you before and I've installed it on a spare laptop here and I'm
trying to do a pure KDE type of experience to get a field for that. On my work laptop,
not 100% sure, I'm ready for that yet. But I'd like to see full-on KDE with all the desktop
integration and the integration to the personal manager and the integration into key rings,
and that's where the stuff, just to see how that works out. Well, the impression I get from
hearing about its development is that it's going to be fantastic, but my personal experience so far
has not been that good, but I think it's probably because I'm running Debian testing where a lot of
broken bits are attending to appear. Yeah, it's been the, I've known from personal experience with
Fedora, it's pretty broken as well. Even now, on 23, I just upgraded from 21 to 23 and a lot of
stuff is broken. But yeah, that could be because an upgrade is not a recommended thing to do,
so I'm on the fence, I'll still whether I'll try a clean install and see how that goes, but
anyway, I needed this machine to be run on tonight, so, but I particularly enjoyed the
Aaron Saigo interviewer. I was just after the interviewer was gone, oh no, I know that name from
somewhere. And then who it was. Yeah, that's great. So comments, do you want to do this?
Yeah, sorry I had far ahead. We had a comment from Trent Palmer on this one,
awesome episode, he said, fantastic episode of Hacker Public Radio, I spent this afternoon driving
around Southwest Washington in the lift gate, tractor trailer making, pickups and deliveries,
while listening to this collection of interviews from Post-Dame and I must report, I'm entertained,
inspired and informed. Thank you, thank you, thank you, Hacker Public Radio, 1958 is an awesome
podcast. Well, now, Dave, as you know, I was tired and exhausted when I came back from
Fostem, so much so that like I had a tough week and then I went into that and I came back for
several more tough weeks. And when that was posted, I was, you know, I just put the smile on your face,
some positive feedback later. That's that's what the comment systems for, you know, those sorts of
comments that just lift you so much. Cool, perfect. Do you want to do Mike? No, I can't do, you can't
comment on your own. Mike says, second, what Trent said, and more, thanks Ken for three or was it
four shows containing a blistering array of interviews from Post-Dame. She had a variety of subjects
and projects covered was impressive. Must have been tiring and I hope you didn't sacrifice your
own enjoyment of the event to bring us the range of interviews you did. Highlights and we were
mostly the last one, Pico, TCP, PTX, DIST and Bear Box Matrix and the knitting lady, Shavorn.
She had difficulty typing as I would. It was a delight and a good one to end on. Not very much
proof of that. I wish they were more like Shavorn at my local lug. Indeed.
I got now, I didn't get to do a lot of those interviews, which I love doing, you know, just
random people interviews. The following day, K-Billing Level 2, Mozilla, Apache Jenkins,
X-Duck Q, X-Wiki, Docker Wiki, Tiki Wiki and Media Wiki, LFS, Pearl, Backhurst,
Koala, Google, Summer of Code, Ultimaker.
Yeah, that was a good one. As I was listening to the notes I made to myself with,
I enjoyed the Wiki ones. I'm fascinated by Wiki's and enjoyed hearing things about them.
I just want to go and look at more of them. They were all together on the same table, weren't they?
Yeah, except for the Media Wiki one, which was more of Datawiki, they submitted the booth
themselves as three projects and fostered them very much into that, project sharing and
collaborating, so they give them a table, which was awesome.
Yeah, I sat into the Media Wiki go, who just happened to sit beside me at one point,
and I was having a rest, and she, yeah, it's quite interesting, chat with her. Didn't have a
microphone with me now. Dave, Dave, how could you? I'm not Ken, I can't do it.
Go on. I just do that to get across my own shyness, but a microphone and somebody
in somebody's face, and suddenly you can ask all these interesting questions, and you're not
Ken anymore, you can follow and hack up a bit radio representative. That's kind of cool.
The power thing was fun. I just, let me see, the Mozilla one, I would have liked to go more into
detail about a lot of the controversy, but again, I wasn't possible. Basically, it wasn't possible.
Apache, I thought was an interesting interview because he got the history of the Apache foundation,
and I think they're quietly chug away in the background, and I'm not getting the credit to
deserve. They get actually lambasted a little bit because of the open office thing. That's not
their fault. Somebody chooses a license and follows the procedures and goes into the thing.
What can you do? Yeah, right. And then Jenkins, another good project, three Wiki, Tokio Wiki.
And I did enjoy the Linux one scratch, if for no other reason that,
yeah, that was one of my first distros, the guy, one of the guys on work at one time.
I asked him what distros he used, and he said, Linux from scratch, and then I proceeded to install that.
Yeah, well, that's just very brave. I've never really had the enthusiasm to do that, to be honest,
it should happen. It does really make a lot of stuff very clear to you. In a way that people say,
yeah, if you do a source base, just to look like Gen 2 or something. That's the bunny Gen 2.
I was thinking about their Emerge system. This really goes down to GCC, your GCC compiling your distro.
You are writing the distro. It's actually very awesome. And he had a, he was a blind user,
so he had a nice, or not a nice, but he had a Braille reader and stuff on his desk. So,
ideal there. Does everything in Emax as far as I can remember. And then we have Pearl, again,
Wendy and Henkel. Yeah, I know I always like to go and hang out there, if I possibly can.
And they're so friendly over there. So, it's very nice.
Yeah, indeed. The backhurst have got their website up, so that's at backhurst.org.
Of course, what is backhurst? It's like completely and totally unprepared. I had no idea,
no, no, no, nothing for them. No, it's quite, I found myself a little bit stunned by what they
would say. And then we had the Koala, language analysis too, which was kind of interesting.
And of course, Google Summer of Code. And my favourite place to work in the whole world, it will be
the Ultimaker. This is my background as a mechanical plastic engineering.
Yes, it was very cool. They had several stacks of these machines, which they built devices
to allow them to stand one on the other, I guess. Yeah, it's like the 3D printers and shiny LEDs,
you know, guaranteed to make any geek. Well, it was just sort of, it was gobsmacking,
it really was watching all these devices stacked in a stack, all merrily building things.
It's going to tear my eyes away from it. Yeah. And there was just a pile of people
in front of the whole time working, looking at it. So, excellent. Mike Ray commented,
liked the interview, especially the LFS guy. He can quite grasp whether he himself is
visually impaired, but he spoke very, oh yes, he was, he was blind and was using a braille reader.
And yeah, nice guy is all of them. Indeed.
So, next day, freeBSD, Matrix, Brain, Dreno, Butterknife, KY, Hurdy,
Core Boot, Open Embedded, Peacock, CCP, and PTS,
Dist, Javikard Pro, Knitting, and of course, Fenster. And that was the freeBSD, and
for you was, with Ed, we met him on the bus, we all got lost at the same spot, true no fault of my own,
I might have. No, no, this was a new phenomenon of a tram that comes towards you with a certain
number on, and when you get on it, it changes the number and goes, goes in and that's good.
It's completely over reduction. Which, you know, it's a Belgian thing that I've never encountered
before. Yeah, we will, we will know to ask. Oh, we obviously don't have like strange public
transport adventures in Belgium, but I don't know. Anyway, then we had AdVars with Matrix, which is a
cool, basically standard for, we were looking at that in work as well, just to do inter,
inter team work, Brain, Dreno, which is awesome, excellent stuff. Did you, did you see that even?
I didn't actually check that one out. A lot of these places were so busy.
Yeah, and I went to the HVs where guys were mobbed. They're absolutely mobbed all the time as well.
Yeah, there was, I think Post-M was, there were more people this year than they have been in
previous years to my experience. That's what the reports say coming back. So everywhere was so packed
that I wanted to go to. So I went to the, so I went to the pearl room and just sort of occupied
the seat there for a longer, possibly good. I mean, you know, you can't get me out.
I've been looking at the videos actually as well, because I completely missed every part of the show
except the except seasons. Then we had a butter knife. I can't help but think that I heard of a
project that does exactly this thing, like a clone of ghost. I cannot find it.
No, I don't know about that. That was a way of blasting machines out just
cloning them and putting one to one of them and updating them. It was pretty cool.
And then the pie herdy was like a herdy-gurdy project, a musical instrument,
met out of a clear plastic. I'm quite interested in musical instruments of various sorts.
And I did follow up all the links on this one. It's some amazing work there.
Yeah, that's brilliant. I didn't actually go and visit that one myself. I'm ready to say.
But yeah, so thanks for that. And unfortunately, there was no, I can't get a recording of it.
I'll see. Yeah. I thought I couldn't trace down a recording. I couldn't find it.
No, I couldn't find it. And we were called up with Carl Daniel Halle thinger
from Corboot and Flashrom. And I was so annoyed because during their booth,
they have a, you can bring over a laptop and they'll put in small Corboot and I've got a Chromebook
here that is more or less bricked and they will recover for you. So I was going,
I just couldn't believe it. I was trying to catch up with him all day and remember we were walking
over to the K building. Oh no, it wasn't with you. I was with JWP and I bumped into Carl and he
I've been trying since then to get an interview with him and I was thinking, oh, there's only
going to be a few things. But it's really in the last year. It's been really taking on as a
as the bootloader for a lot of projects and a lot of devices. Yeah, it's quite impressive.
I was impressed with it last year, but as you say, it seems to have developed a lot. It's highly
desirable, isn't it? Very much so. And we had the open, open and bedded and we had a Pico TCP
that those guys pushed really pushing the TCP. Last year was a bit concerned about their dual
licensing, but I think it's they're really clear. Clarify that for me this year. Then we had
PTX dist and bear box by Alexander Aering.
I must say this really went over my head. This whole the whole interview here, the bootloaders
and stuff. I'm not I'm not that I really was asking some fairly basic questions here. It was
my my thing. No, I can't I can't add anything now. I'm afraid it's not really my thing either.
The JavaCard Pro was excellent. They as an authentication method and as on this business card,
you know, when people give you a business card, he gave me one of these Java cards that I could
put in my computer and read it and he has his own, he's got business card and stuff written
on the application in the card itself. It's just pretty cool. And then we had, at the last I happened
to be outside the just packing up and those talking to Shimon about knitting and stuff. And then
of course, as required, we need to give credit to Fenster for the interstation music that has now
become part and parcel of of the fostom for me at least. Hey, good. Yes.
I now move it on. I promised it would be a fast episode, but I lied through my teeth. Dave, sorry.
That's okay. It's hard not to talk about these things. Yes, but there's so many fantastic projects.
And again, when I came home, I was so tired and depressed, just practical. Will I ever go back there
again? And then you read through the interviews and you listen to them because even when I'm doing
them, you're thinking of the next question and you're just scanning for words and making sure that
you know, we're getting everything in. And when you can listen to them and you hear about those
projects and you go to the website and you go, oh, wow, this is a lot cooler than I thought at the time.
Absolutely. Yeah, I found lots of things listening to your various interviews that I hadn't really
picked up on myself, but by sort of craning over other people's shoulders. And you know,
maybe you want to go and check out a lot of these things. Definitely, I might to do this.
Yeah, and that combined with getting a lot of, you're watching the videos, it's cool that all
the videos are available online. I think you can, you're actually better off because Kai
came with us and got sick and had to go home. So he, he ended up listening to our interviews and
watching the, watching the videos from the, from the halls. So that's how he experienced
fostering when he got home. Very cool. I'm glad he got, got to see stuff. I haven't picked up
on the videos yet. I know they, they were in process, but I've not gone to see if they were all done
yet. It's kind of interesting. Again, you know, if people are listening to the, or people, you go
to a particular booth because you're interested in the particular booths and the, and the cool thing
about why I went, the reason why I went to every booth is because I might not be particularly
interested in it, but somebody else might be, you know, so that's why I wanted to do as many as
possible. But I don't know where I'm going with this. No, it's, it's, it's good to be able to,
to sort of pass these messages onto, to the listeners because even if you're actually there,
it's not easy to, to see everything and, well, it's impossible to see everything. Yeah, exactly
visiting the booth. So, so, and if you are, if you are visiting, yeah, that's actually that's
what I'm going to remind me, well, if you're visiting there as a person without a microphone,
you don't want to monopolize people's time because there's so many other people. But if you're
there with a microphone, you can ask all the questions to make sure you covered everything and
they got the story because we've got these 16,000 listeners who are, you know, it's, you're now
talking to 16,000 people as opposed to just one person. And I've found out when I was listening,
especially at the AW building, there were people following me around as I was recording. So,
that's, they could hear all the questions and hear the interview live, which is kind of cool.
Wow. Well, you know, you're going to go up to a guy you go, what's this about? And then, you know,
somebody else comes and they're talking, and you're trying to listen to it, but you got this big
arrogant Irish guy who comes in and goes, right, I'm going to interview you now and blah, give me the
orange feel. Yeah, yeah, I can see that. You should hand out microphones to these guys and get
them to, I've handed them back up business cards. So, if they're listening to this, you would be
nice if you sent it in the show telling us about your experience of Austin. Anyway, another for
more than epic series to another epic series, the HBR New Year's show.
Well, yes, what can you say? I was like, how have a lot went on there, wasn't it?
It was, but I really love it because it's this year, there was no pressure because we just released
them whenever, so not recording the shows. And people come on, they chatted on the left. Excellent.
What it should be. Yeah, that worked out very well, I think. So, the first one was education
podcast trains and bikes. And a few links there into the recombinant bike episode and the
model trains. Often, yeah, podcasts, I'm not aware of that actually.
Quite good links there, actually. I've not looked at that in a huge amount of detail.
Hansen Pirate needs this model trains. It's very impressive, I think. Yes, indeed.
More shows than those of interest to hackers. The second one, 1962 distrails, wearables,
distrails, RIP, Ian Mardak, Chromebook, Samsung, World War I, LibrePlanet, TTS, and more. Talk
on Linux distributions, wearable computers, CTile.org. What was that? A fully-featured,
hackable, tiling manager written in Python. Oh, yeah, yeah, remember that. Ian Mardak passing away.
Don't think we need to add any more fuel to that particular fire. Older Fedora image
gone for the Samsung ARM Chromebooks. Samsung makes tanks, did not know that.
Detailed talk about World War I shipboard communications of which I knew little and which I found
very interesting myself. Yes, indeed, this is Hansen Pirate again, who makes a particular study
of this, I think. And that would fall definitely under the heading of interest to hackers,
me and yourself, and Hansen Pirate that makes three, one over the quarter.
Absolutely. The current state of text-to-speech travel, Linux and open source conference,
what crowdfund devices did we back? That's actually a very good question. That would be a good one
for just generally, you know, what crowdfund devices you would like to see and then we had hacking
media devices, comics-based TV shows and Star Wars without the spoilers.
The next day we had a Dyson Sphere, Star Wars again, Spammers, Tyson, Kevin, TV,
security, single board PCs in general. Game of Thrones is the Game of Thrones a Dyson Sphere.
That's the weirdest thing I've ever heard in my life. It's just the sort of opening graphics
that set off this rumor, isn't it? I have no idea even what a Dyson Sphere is.
Oh, that's a science fiction concept where a very, very advanced civilization builds a sphere
around their solar system in order to trap all of the energy from the sun, from the main star.
And yeah, there's been some talk of some astronomical anomaly recently that could possibly be a
Dyson Sphere one in the building. Very nice. Yes, but yeah, but I don't know. I've not watched
a game of Thrones, so I don't know anything about this. There's a lot of people speaking about it.
More Star Wars, Punking, Tech, Support, Spammers, that was quite funny. It was good. Yes, I like that.
I actually listened to that guy that we're talking about. They have like an old Australian
chap and he goes, you know, my daughter, she normally takes care of this sort of thing. What are you
calling about yet? Oh, lovely, yes. Awesome. Microsoft failed Tizenform, which was interesting
because they asked questions that were covered in the interviews that had just happened because I
had interviewed the Tizen guys, which is nice. Dan CTV, Security Single Board PCs, more ear
Murdoch and Linux distros. Then we had cheap computers the following day. Arm, audio, book club,
lights, living Orlando, editing, pronunciation, pronunciation and pranks. Can you buy a cheap
new computer that runs Linux? The answer is no. This was a fascinating discussion meds with more so by
having poke back on. I really missed hearing him and the debate he had with Joe, Joe, yeah.
And I was screaming at Joe. Joe was talking BS, but then again, it was two o'clock and it was six
o'clock in the morning and he had drank a lot. So, oh, there we go. I thought he did a fantastic
job. Actually, Joey, he held up his end of the argument very well. And he was doing it quite
deliberately to cause there to be a heated discussion, I think. There was, but I really liked
poke comes back with valid points. And I was thinking, I was thinking, shouting into the microphone,
poke was asking the question of making the point. But Joe, of course, is good. That's why he was
on the podcast panel because he's good at stirring up the pond water. Let's put it like that.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Oh, oh, I wanted to go with. Although I do have to say now, officially on
the record, convergent devices is ridiculous. It will never, ever, ever, ever work. Joe's point
about there being your phone being your only computer device is ridiculous. If you go into any
computer, any office building in the world, there are computers on the desks that may be laptops,
but they are on the desks. And if you're running a job, I don't care if it's if you're editing a
movie or you're processing in an Excel spreadsheet or you're logged in via SSH into 20 sessions,
when you go to the toilet, you want to check the news feeds and you're not going to disconnect your
phone, which is, you know, now is the device that's turning the spreadsheet that's connected into
these SSH sessions or is rendering a video. And suddenly all your work is following you into the
John and falls down the toilet and you have to go into your boss and explain why you've just lost
four days work because your phone fell down the toilet. Convergent devices is never going to happen.
It's a thing that Sony Ericsson was on about five, 10 years ago. Forget about it. It's ridiculous.
Never happened. It's it's snowcrash. It's it's the it's the fault of snow crash, isn't it?
You have a red snow crash. The sci-fi. Yeah. That's what all the cool guys have. They have the
you unify device that they carry in the pockets and then then it's got infinite amounts of power
and stuff. Yes, that's correct. They have that. That's fine. No problem. But when you go into the
John, you don't want your SSH connections, your work stuff following you in, right? So picture
this, right? You have your phone connected. You got all your Skype contacts, you know, people
talking to your work, you've got your email following you, you're sitting there and then the
cubicle next year, the phone rings, you know, do do do Skype phone and the guy answers the phone.
Yeah, do you want do you really want that? Socially, we are not ready for that.
I don't want to tell no, no, no, no, but it's it's it's going to this is the vision, isn't it?
Although that's it. I did hear a guy join a conference call in the toilet this year that happened.
Great. Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure the background noises were wonderful.
Well, I met my efforts to contribute. That's all I can say.
Anyway, cheap new computers, arm, pranks, naval warfare, audio book club, some
after hours, links from conference, Christmas display lights, oh yeah, we need more of that stuff.
Southern living and booze visiting Orlando from with etching, pronunciation of town's names,
pranks, naval warfare, which was another rehash of that. Strange steam badges, scanning
photos of kids art. That was me and happy 2016.
Cool. Oh god, more can fall on. Don't do a show. I get all my shows in in January so nobody can
complain that I haven't done a show. All right, yes, this you I was telling you about this.
Did you even it was adding SQLite as a data source to SQLio and this is the it's like a graphical
tool for working with the SQL database so you can do drag and drop queries. So this table into
that table, into the next table and you know, doing unified joins and that sort of thing.
I wasn't losing it for that, but did you get did you finally understand what I was asking?
When I first when you first mentioned this, I did we speak about it? I didn't I didn't get it.
I didn't know what the hell you were doing here, but when I listened to your your episode,
I did, but and it looked very cool. I thought it was really good. The the SQLio thing,
which is a sort of schema display and edit thing. I take it. Yeah. No pictures. I needed pictures.
I wanted to see what it looked like. Step by step instructions. Yeah. Yeah. Just winding you up.
This is I've been doing your trick for your full step of step instructions. See here,
an F's H for your 1965 very last line. Seriously, tell me what was that was that pictures.
Was the pictures that does a full transcript with pictures?
Not pictures of what the actual. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're right. Yeah. Okay. So when I was
in Brighton, my notes, I was I was obviously high on something. Oh, Dave, Dave, I take it back.
No, the notes are great. The notes are beautiful. Well, again, this is one of the things for
myself later on, but this guy, this guy is cool. You know, I'd pay 10, 10 euros and I've got about
six different releases since then. So pretty cool. Yeah. It looks, I'd like to play around with that.
It looks like I'm swift 110 had out what's in my bag. And his bag is extremely heavy. He
will have to be careful with his back. I'll tell you that for nothing. Sony, via a Lenovo,
an iPad 3 Galaxy Tab 3 Android 4 or cables charging cables iPod Classic.
I'll USB drive a lot of a lot of interesting stuff there. Another guy, I think, I'll mugs
some day as he walks down the street. Yeah. Yeah. It's good pictures would have been nice,
but that's just me. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. But not everybody's as fascinated by show notes as you
would know, Dave, unfortunately. True. Not your Jordy. How I saw the Linux light at the end of
the Windows tunnel. And this was a, this was a new user coming to to Linux. I thought it was
not very nicely done. You apologize about the ambient sounds. I thought it was. I don't just
add it to it. Yeah. Yeah. Like that. So long as the audio goes. Yeah. Sometimes it can be too much.
People also stop complaining about your accents, especially people from south of the US,
complaining about their accents don't. It's having knowledgeable people come on,
explaining stuff to us with different accents is awesome. It's absolutely cool.
Bricks down stereotypes as well. So keep them coming. Absolutely. I made a note they mentioned
the Sinclair Spectrum, which sounded like pretty good fun. So I'd tell you more about that.
I, yeah. So I never had never did have one. I know a few people had one at the time. Or so,
I would never have enough money to get my hands on one of those. So there you go.
I had a BBC Micro, so at that time. I got my hands on one of them in college.
They, uh, what, uh, there was only two left by the time I, uh, so I ended up having to do it with a
my hardware stuff, but it's on the GPI port that a Raspberry Pi would have done
absolutely perfect for about a last that was along on time ago.
Anyway, first show by John Doe. Was this was the first show?
Uh, first time, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And he did a show on multiplexing wrapper at the
Baibu, Baibu, Baibu, which is I've used once way back when I came out and it absolutely
borced my entire screen sessions at the point of having to remove it, remove all the
config files and reinstall it. I'm sure it's come on along since then it actually made me
tempted to use it, but I'm, I'm finger muscles into the hard keys and screen now, I think.
Yeah, uh, Baibu, I don't know how to say it either. I have used it. I don't use it regularly,
but I do, okay, I've got it set up on one of my Raspberry Pi's and it's quite useful for doing
that type of thing. And yeah, so it was good to hear about. But as you say, it's, it's, um,
depends which one you used to. It's like buy an Emax type of argument. Yeah, exactly.
Still might be useful to give it a goal sometime. This made me seriously think about it again.
Maybe I'll do it on this, uh, on this clean, um, uh, clean KD neon machine I have here.
And Josh Knapp, uh, doing a show on the horrors of spam. I think this one was dedicated
squarely as you and I, Dave, if nothing else. I, I rather felt it might be, yeah.
And I think, uh, yes, I think he's quite right. Uh, we've, we've had a, uh, Josh has put in a lot,
a lot of effort on tidying up the spamming. You know, I think it's sorted now, Dave, don't you?
It looks like it is. Yeah, yeah. Uh, it's, um, it has been pretty horrible. I do sympathize with
Josh's, Josh's point of view with this because it is, it's a, it's a typical position to be in
being a hosting provider and stuff. So, uh, I'm surprised. Actually, how low hit the motor spam,
he deaths is because I remember working at an ISP and 98% of email messages we were getting at
the time was spam. Having worked at a university spam was total pain of our, our existence for many,
many years. Yeah. And especially with a Dracolian measures that people are taking, uh, about
blacklist and IP addresses, you know, you're, you're as an ISP provider. If your range gets blacklisted
like that, then, um, that's it. You're out of business. You know, if, oh, yeah, which, which is
basically the, the short and short and summary of that is if, uh, any email goes out, um, and it
is, uh, goes out of all from your, from that IP address and you get on one of those blacklists,
you're never coming off. It used to be that it was very easy in my clients to submit, uh, what you
thought was, was spam to, to one of those blacklists. Yeah, yeah. We used to suffer with that. Yeah.
We used to suffer with that at the university with the student saying, oh, I don't
worry, that's spam. Bam. And then you'd find that some, something, some external organization,
or your organization itself or whatever was been blacklisted. And then you had a hell of a job
trying to get it un, unblocked. Yeah. Remember, uh, one term, the, the entire ISP got blacklist
and then they had to lock for every customer, uh, poor 25 going out so that they had to use
a proxy to get out. It's the only way we could, uh, solve the problem. But only, yes, more power to,
and again, uh, plug to an honest host.com who, uh, basically sponsor all the hosting and the bandwidth
and everything else to do with HPR and, uh, as soon as Josh goes on vacation, your guarantee that
we will be bugging him for stuff. Yes. He's very long, so I'm pretty good guy. He's a good guy.
All right. Anyway, um, the following day, how I got started with Linux by Swift, uh, one 10,
who's quite often again on the, uh, IRC channel. And, uh, very positive story about, uh,
getting into, uh, Linux, basically as a, a course thing and, uh, seeing all this, all this
software that's available for free and gratis and stuff. Very, uh, very inspiring, I thought,
actually, and similar to my own, uh, journey in many ways. Yeah. Indeed. Now I said it's good.
It's, these, these stories are always great and this was a good one.
Okay. The following day, blink stick led me to spend four hours on certain websites.
Oops. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And I ended up ordering 70 euros of stuff from
Comrad. Um, just as a little result of going to this, this, this, this, but I've decided,
finally, Dave, thank you very much, that we don't have any underlights in the kitchen.
You know, right? And the kitchen last year and, uh, under the worktop surface lights,
I was going to get LEDs from IKEA, yeah. And then, um, I was tinkering, we're going to
the other fruit to get their lights because they're, you know, they're more professional and
the last twice as long as the IKEA ones. But with this, the blink stick pro, you can link it in
directly into the IKEA light. Yes, you can. Yes. And for 20 euros, I can test my programs because
Dave, it's very important that the lights always work, Dave. It might be cool that they do
discount linking, but the lights have to work when certain members of my family come down and, uh,
turn that switch. So, which is why I was thinking of using the blink stick to control the
red, green and blue are the RGB ones. And on the inner fruit is selling a four, Dave, a four LED
light with a natural white one, which I'm thinking of controlling independently on the light switch.
What do you think of that, Dave? I think it needs to show that again. I think so, Dave. I'm not
only that. I have no idea how to do it. So if there's anyone who say, I don't know, might have
automated their chicken coop lately. Once you give me a hand at that, I will be more than happy
to, uh, to send them a blink stick to, uh, to, uh, see if we can get this thing working.
Because that would be cool. A light switch, Dave, or a dimmer for the white one and the other ones
then, uh, controlled by a Arduino or Raspberry Pi. That would be awesome. Oh, yes. Oh, yes.
Well, because it's cool. You can change these things up. So you could have three,
yes, three individual ones. So it's pretty awesome, pretty awesome. You can do some fun things.
See, the, the range of stuff that the blink stick site has grown enormously since I first, uh,
four, one. And, uh, yeah, I'm really tempted to get some more stuff I have to say.
And I also think it's just, it's a very nice small little project for, um, you know,
I'd introduce you to capacitors, resistors and, uh, dials.
Well, that's, well, this is my story that we bought it. So, uh, do some soldering practice.
And, uh, so yeah, it's, it's good. It's good. And the, um, Edinburgh Science Festival's coming up
at the end of this month and they're doing soldering lessons there. And they're also teaching
how to do surface man soldering, which, uh, sure, whether to sign up for. Yeah, yeah, you should
be able to do it on your kitchen table, they'd say. So how are they going to do that? Yeah, can you
bring, bring the, um, bring your zoom and just turn it on and leave it in the middle.
Well, I should, I should maybe go and pay for a course and say, can I bring this along as well?
Yeah. Anyway, the blink stick, by the way, for those of you who didn't hear the show and go off
on the tangent is a small USB device with RGB lights that can build yourself. And you plug it in,
it basically is a USB stick with a light on it. And you say, how interesting is that? Well,
Mr. Dave Morris is scanning the HPR website and whenever the show comes in, he can bug me
about because he goes flashing red. So many ways you could use this. Like in work, if, you know,
I don't know if the second, if you get more emails coming in or write a script to check if the
server is down or something, you know, it's pretty awesome. Yeah, absolutely. Well, like I said,
my next project is going to use the pro with a, with a neopixel ring, which I'm going to mount in
something or other. And, uh, yeah. So I want to light up different, different lights depending on
events. The postman said, oh, flash that one red. Yeah. Can't ask me to reply to my email
the last five minutes. Oh, definitely that one. Yeah. Yeah. It's sound of clacks and as well,
that one. Very good, very good, very good. Following day, 1972, how I got into Linux, my first,
my first podcast, me rambling about how I got into the Linux, which is from Mer-Shade,
Mer-Shade's lead speak. And there was nothing wrong with the rough sound. I am fascinated,
with why he used an old Sony tape recorder to record it. Don't get me wrong. I'm pretty
impressed. And also his Kentucky accent is awesome. Have we gone into, uh, no, we haven't. Does
it still, uh, February? So yes, love the accent. Loved the, uh, this Sony tape recorder sounds.
Yeah, it's, um, I was very impressed with that. Yeah, it's reusing your own technology for these
sorts of things. It's, uh, pretty good. And accents are cool, you know, you need more accents.
Yeah. It was a good show. I enjoyed that. Turtle replied. Nice show. Enjoyed your show. For
your information, ice pack Linux had a release in 2015 based on kernel 31066. To which, um,
Mer-Shade's replied. Thanks for the kind words heads and the heads up on ice pack. No idea that
they had made a comeback, which is excellent. I had never heard of ice pack until that show.
No, I had never. I don't think we've had one where it's been a duplicate of anyone's,
anyone's journey. Well, there've been similarities and, uh, in all of them, but none that have been,
oh, that's the same as some other dudes. I like the fact that he was, uh, he, he got went back a
little bit further than many people in sort of computer history. Um, and that was some interesting
stuff there. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So the next day in 1973, I had a problem with this. Um, they,
I have one hour and 15 minutes of audio, but only 45 minutes come through the, uh, the playout.
And I've tried everything to get it back. So I will be sending an email at Dave. Can you please
remind me to the list with a link to the source audio if somebody can help me fix it?
Right. Uh, I'm just writing that down. And then we can, then I'll repost this and the full version
will come down. So apologies about that. Uh, I think what happened was when I uploaded over the
hotel Wi-Fi, which was, um, that it's, um, something went wrong. And normally I tried all the things.
I even tried sending it off to the audio, uh, Fixie people, uh, to kind of remember what they're called
and they were able to do anything with it either. I wasn't able to, if I fast forward, uh, to pass that
point, I am able to play it. And I was, I tried then playing it in the player and looping it back through
the, um, pull audio. But that didn't work. So I have yet to try taking the audio and splitting it
up into two. So I don't know. Okay. I just, it was at the end of my header and I'd all go over the
stuff down. So I have another chance to fix it. So I thought, anyway, it's too late now. We'd have to
repost it. So better to wait to the community news, see if somebody can fix it. And then at least
people listening, when they hear the show coming down again, they will realize, hey, fast forward
to 45 seconds in, uh, 45 minutes in and then listen to the remainder of the show because it was,
it was, it was a good show. Yeah. The recording level was great actually. I was surprised that
that it came out as well as it did. And it was an interesting lecture. He has done that lecture
before. So if you go to the, uh, uh, GNU website, uh, slash media, I think you'll get a shorter version
from, uh, a YouTube, a, a TED talk, X, or TEDx talk.
But then you miss the, uh, the same Augustus part at the end, which everybody here missed as well
for the news. Same Ignusius. Same Ignusius. Thank you. Thank you, Dave. I was very impressed. That's
why I remembered. JWP did 1974 and sent it through the upload. I, in general, I was feeling bad
about how donations worked in Ubuntu and he had, um, basically given us feelings about how the
various different projects get supported. Interesting summary synopsis there. JWP does a quite a good
job at taking stuff and making the synopsis of it. Yeah. Yeah. It, uh, he, he voiced his, uh, his
concerns when we were, we worked on STEM. So it was good to hear him doing a show about it.
Yeah. And I think he, he had done some research then afterwards and gone and looked at the Fedora
booth and their way of handling it and, and, uh, had gone round to the other projects as all the
Debian and, um, and, uh, mint and stuff. So good show. Don't be afraid. People to send in your own opinions
and things. And then we had an interview with an Android app developer. It's so,
Sigflop, I think, was surprised to find somebody to talk to on Christmas Eve, uh, about, uh,
Linux and all those, and yes, awesome guys. There is no excuse. You can bring recorders
to, you find an interesting person you press record. This is how you do it. Sigflop, take a bow.
That was great. Yeah. Yeah. It was, it was a good thing to do. And, uh, the, uh, the fact that it
obviously was. Hit Christmas and everybody was rushing about getting ready for Christmas and
or whatever. Uh, sounds, that's quite nice. It was, I think about, it's like a John Colpy type
episode. You'd already, uh, you just grabbed a coffee. In this case, I was drinking in my mind
a nice beer, uh, sitting at the table, listening to them talk. And, you know, as they were talking
about the phones, passing them over and, you know, you could just imagine yourself without feeling
they, I've got these three phones. And, uh, this is what I do. And that's what I do. And, uh,
awesome, awesome, awesome, awesome. I guarantee you that was more interesting than,
than being in with, uh, certain other in law families. So, well done, too.
Anyway, it was, it was an interesting thing to do. Oh, good luck to enter that out. Kai, that was
in vote you, Kai. No, no, no. Yes, no comment. Indeed. And the last one, I think, is the last
one 29th. Oh, indeed, 29th. You were introduction to said, Dave, one that I have requested many, many
times. And it was excellent. Thank you very much. Oh, thank you. I picked up a few things.
Mostly that you used my bad grammar. That's examples. You're such a horrible, horrible man.
You guys know, you can tell me that they were fixed. I could fix this. You know, if you told me,
I do, that I have a bug open. That's
a bug. Hello, nothing personal, Ken, you know, just, just, just, just look at that. I thought you
might get the joke. The hilarious. No, I don't, I do need to fix that then. I didn't know about the
and the and stuff. That was very useful. Yeah, it's, there's nothing quite like the process of
having to explain a thing to people. Yeah, to teach you how the hell to use it. Because I had
sort of vaguely known about this in other contexts. I think it's, it's the same in them and various
others. It's not an uncommon thing. But I had never used this and said, I've hardly used said to
this degree in real life. So, you know, hopefully people get something out of the fact that I've
dug around and revealed these strange coolness. Yes, but also I hope people realize how the amount
of work that you put into this because I know from myself and preparing for the XML episodes
that I'm planning and doing possibly maybe not ever. That's, you really need to know your stuff
before you start doing an episode on it. And it is, it's a lot of work, even your show notes are
excellently awesome. I quite enjoyed doing this when I was working at Lancaster University
back in the 70s. I did an evening class for about five years used to run an evening class
in Pascal. And I actually wrote a book to go along. It was never published, but it was a book
that all of the students got. It was printed online printer paper and tied up with a piece of
magnetic tape just for a bit of a laugh. And so I had, I had an enormous fun doing that. So, I'm
sort of going over the same type of ground again to use myself. Do you still have that? Or is this
copyright issue? I think the book, yeah, yeah, it's still about. It's, I've got a line printer,
a faded line printer copy somewhere in the house. I don't think I have to, don't have the source
anymore though. It's a price scanning address, something. Yeah, I wrote the, it was in the days
of text processes, you know, like mark, mark down and stuff like that. So, I invented my own
text language and wrote a Pascal program just to generate the print out as well. So,
that was my first language in college as well. It's, it's got a lot going for it. It's,
or had a lot going for it. It's been ages since I used it. I couldn't, I couldn't do anything in it now.
It was, my students enjoyed it. That's, by the way, that open bracket parentheses,
square brackets till the open brackets, closed square brackets, asterisk, closed square bracket
thing. I have seen that so many times and not figured out what it was as it was just a revelation
to me that I know you say it in the in the show that you hear here. It's a most common example
and it is for some reason, people seem to love replacing stuff between brackets with other stuff
between brackets. Yes, I know. It's, I'm just nervous about making reading out complex examples
like this, you know, because it's, it must must come across pretty tedious if you're sitting in
your car or something in a traffic jam. Yeah. Listen to some guy wittering on about slashes and
back slashes and stuff. Well, as it happens, I today will to listen to two shows that
cyclops and yours. And I didn't listen to yours because I knew there would be examples. So,
I listened to it coming back in the train and just read along. That's probably the best way
way to do it. But I thought it did need, didn't need to be read for, for, you know, if you're
visually impaired or whatever, maybe it's maybe it's usable to you there, I don't know.
Mike would probably view the best to comment, nor does he will.
Cool, that was it. For sure, it was anyway. That's right. Yep.
Do you want to do the, the, the comments that we haven't covered in as we went through the shows?
Yeah, yes, please. For a head. Okay, so there are only, there are only a few this time.
We had a comment to show 1896 by, which was Eric Duhamel talking about, use a local software.
And this was a workload door. I don't know. I have a directory for this purpose too.
The name has changed several times currently. It's code from beyond, beyond my repo.
It is too long. Maybe it will change to code FB or something like that.
I totally agree with the need of some directories, which are not touched by the system,
but only by the users. I don't like dot files dot D very much because it feels too generic for me.
Then we had 1919 by Zoke, which was Derbycon interview with Paul Koblitz.
Yes, and there was talk of a 3D template in there. And I think Zoke sent that in, but I cannot find it.
I cannot find it. So I need to contact Zoke again to ask him to see if he can send that to me.
Yes, it was auto local horse. It's just a great name. I wanted a template of a Lloyd being.
I discovered a equivalent of a sort of credit card for poking into locks and things.
Then on your never-ending attempt to get people to submit yours to your fountain pen thing,
so I became a series.
I haven't worked yet. Damn.
I imagine people are working on that Dave. You know what the other day? I was in a supermarket in
Germany. And they had a wide selection of cheap fountain pens, Dave. And I was so close Dave.
Very very close to my one. Just to spite you, I didn't.
I can imagine that yet. Is that if I had a fountain pen, I would be feeling to myself.
I need to do a show about fountain pens, and then that would make it a series.
And that would be playing into Dave Morris, as this is planned.
Absolutely. Yeah. Well, NY Bill found an old pen and was talking with mentioned it.
It was interesting how you recover it. He basically was cleaning the thing out.
And then he pointed to his pictures of him, meaning it to soak in more water and things,
which is the right thing to do actually. So good. And you give some tips about cleaning it out
with a soft toothbrush, removing the nib. If it is removal.
I don't particularly like. At least another HVR show here. Can you recount your experiences?
Nice one, Dave. Well, you know, it's you saw one of this to be a series, Dave, don't you?
Not at all. No, no, I'm not bothered one bit. Me too. Me, not me.
Jonathan was coming to Johnson Colt that is pilot, metro and schaffer, shaffer, shaffer, shaffer,
Dave said shaffer. Now it's not the way it's spelled though. Yeah, probably not.
Anyway, Dave Bill, I recently got a pilot metro pen as well. It's very nice. Also,
trumpet guy gave me an old SCHEA FF, your schaffer, shaffer. Shaffer is the usual pronoun.
Well, it's wrong, Dave. You're wrong. And anybody who wants to record a show proving that I'm wrong,
may do so. Influes a little faster with the shaffer than it does with a pilot. I can't
decide whether that's a good thing or a bad thing. In my new position at work, I have to sign
a lot of documents where whenever they're not in triplicate, which requires a ballpoint pen to put
enough pressure in, I use one of my new fountain pens had to see what all the fuss was about.
After these episodes prompted me to comment a more comments than I can remember.
Yes, that's because some of these prompting these comments in an effort to make that a series.
Although now I do have lots of images of John Colp over the series of episodes that he's done
in Lafayette, Louisiana. And I know that whenever I do eventually get around to visiting him,
I will, my image of him will be completely different to the reality.
Oh, it's the way though, isn't it? I picture him nowhere to cigar and signing this. Get out of my office.
I like that. I like that. Yes. Anyway, did you comment it?
I said that name is hard to spell, meaning shaffer. It looks if it's German, so I tend to
talk SCHAEWFER a lot of the time. It's an American company from around 1912.
That's the pronunciation. That's why they spell it that way, I assume. I used to shave the cartridge pen as
a schoolboy and I still have it and I'm just in the process of resurrecting it. And I did, actually,
it works fine. There are various opinions about wet pens. I once produced a lot of ink,
heard them describe as juicy too. A broad nib needs plenty of ink to be delivered because it
deposits more. Final nibs, conversely, need less. However, much lower quality paper doesn't
suit wetter pens as the ink tends to sink in and feather or bleed through. On the other hand,
a dryer pen can be frustrating as the ink feed often doesn't keep up with the roting.
Many factors to consider. Just get a viral look at everybody else with
a little gesture. He's a pencil man. Slate in a nail. I'm glad you're enjoying the Metro. I'd
love to see the shaker. We need a show on your experiences. Another aspect to find a pen
usage you might enjoy is the huge selection of inks that is available. I'm enjoying one
called ancient copper from Diamine at the moment, the sort of reddish brown. So there you go. There's
a show there. Indeed. Yeah. And never letting a show later depends die. You also commented on
episode, episode number 5th, 1984. Grandpa shows us how to turn custom pens. And your comment was
great to hear that you have officially joined the legal fountain pen wielders. You should get
yourself a fountain from the writing paper, a fountain pen from the writing paper, some from who
rodeer or clear-fontaine, perhaps. Then have a go at writing stuff, notes, letters, poetry, whatever.
It can be a pleasure and very relaxing. Man, you can also do a show about this.
I do sound like me. Okay. So, where are we? First, I'm sending you questions that did request
PHP, given the 500 or that turned out to be an upgrade, PHP.ini, Josh upgraded the backend
as all good system administrators should. And the PHP.ini got overwritten and our
strange requirements of having massive big limits on the size of files,
got turned back to something sane, which for us is insane.
HPR in the press, I sent out ages ago and it was held up in the thing and then I eventually
coped on to how to use the control panel that Josh had set up and I released it. And this is just
if people come across, if you do come across stuff where HPR has mentioned in the press or
on the internet somewhere in the review, good, bad or indifferent, I really don't care. We put it
up because it's nice to know that it's not only the people who have spent the time writing the
review, but also that we get, we put it on to our about page so that people know we exist.
Cool. Then David Elwinson had the speech sentences during the intro, asking how that was done.
I pointed him to the exact line in the script that does it. And if anybody wants to
improve that in any way, at all, feel free to do so. That's on the GitLab. So GitLab.anonestores.com
and you can sign up there, use name password, if you had the idea there, make the changes and
do whatever you want to do and then we'll add it or fix it. And the last one do you want to do?
Sick Club. Yeah, this, excuse me, this was Sick Club saying she made a mistake in the title of
her show, 1975. And this, this elisted interesting responses, Jason Dodd came back saying,
rose by any other name, still sound as sweet. He slightly misquoted that one there didn't he, but
anyway. To which window goes said, not in the chorus courses. Not if you call them stench blossoms.
Caught in brilliant. Yes, yes, yes. So that was fun. Okay, that's a two. We're done. That's cool.
Anything else coming up that we need to know about? I don't think there's anything else. No,
I haven't got anything else to add. So, right, that's me. Portiaux, Portiaux, and we would like
shows to be posted. And if the current two weeks are full, post them out in the upcoming weeks,
don't be afraid, don't be afraid. All righty, that's it. That's all folks.
Join us now. I thought we've been having a summary of some free episode.
Right now, tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how
easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon
Computer Club, and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's
show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode
yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
