Episode: 1021
Title: HPR1021: HPR Community News June 2012
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1021/hpr1021.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 17:29:21

---

Welcome to Hacka Public Radio, where we see the community years addition for July
2012. My name is Clap2 and this is Hacka Public. Well you get the idea. This is Hacka Public Radio,
the community news edition. We do this once a month with the intention of looking back at the past
30 days or so and kind of seeing what we as a community, the community that is Hacka Public Radio,
have managed to produce in the past 30 days or so. So let's just get started. I've never really
done one of these little community episodes so I'll just stumble on through using the previous
instances of these as a rough guide. So first I'm going to start out welcoming our new hosts.
Apparently June is like springtime for new hosts. They just come out of the woodwork, they love it,
they flock to HPR. This month we saw the very first episode from Nido or Nido media as he was
credited on the episode and I guess we'll go into exactly what he spoke about in a moment.
Also wanted to welcome Windigo and Gubb New and last but not least a new contributor by the name
of John Doe. Welcome new hosts. If I miss anyone I do apologize but no let's turn our attention
to the episodes that we heard this previous month. Immediately after the previous community news
podcast which was episode 2001 we got an episode from the Linux in the Shell podcast which is a great
podcast well worth listening to either in the HPR feed or from its show over it. I mean it's feed
over at Linux in the Shell.org directly. If you listen to that episode you will learn all about
the free command, F-R-E-E and and really importantly how to read it correctly because I almost
guarantee you you've been reading it wrong this entire time. The next episode,
2003 was from Nido Media the one of the new hosts talking about his recording setup what he uses
to record music and what software he uses what gear what hardware gear he has. So if you're
looking for advice or for some recommendations for good audio hardware and you want to make sure
that it also works on Linux or anything like that then you should check that episode out.
2004 came around and it was from another podcast as well the Sunday morning Linux review episode
their episode 34. We've lost the different news topics from Microsoft schemes to promote Azure
and to swindle people into using Secure Boot on UAFI and other stuff like OpenSus and KDE getting
Ubuntu 1 integration and a couple of different things. You can listen to it and find more out.
Episode 2005 was the talk geek to me newscast from your friend and mine. Deepgeek talking about
all the different conspiracies and controversies and real news items going on around the world.
Episode 2006 was more experiences out of a mental hospital from your friend and mine. SIG Flup. I think
everyone who heard this sort of mini series from SIG Flup I guess two series or two episodes so far
I think we all pretty much agree that this is some of the most powerful and maybe profound content
on hacker public radio so if you haven't heard her episodes on the the mental hospital experience
you really need to hear it it's it's it's really well done it's really insightful.
Episode 2007 my Linux adventure part two from Bob Wooden who's continuing his sort of story of
his experience with Linux and how Linux has saved the day many a time for him in real life and also
how Linux has kind of shaped his career a little bit and I don't think that's a terribly
uncommon story for people who get into Linux and start to really know it well.
Episode 2008 was from one of the new hosts as well when to go this episode was about fixing a
sticky key bug in in Minecraft the game Minecraft apparently there was some bug that wouldn't
read the key release when you when you released a key wouldn't actually realize that you had released
it so you could do some Java magic to fix that and if you listen to this episode you will learn
what you need to do to fix that. Episode 1009 was from John Sullivan he was speaking at the
Northeast Linux Fest and here we hear him talking about why we should care about
free software which of course is a very important topic and I I'm afraid it's becoming more and
more important all the time as more and more people start using licenses that don't really do a
whole lot to protect the continued freedom of software. Speaking of freedom episode 1010 great
number by the way episode 1010 by John Doe so an anonymous contributor. You know how I said
earlier that the two episodes on mental hospitals was one of the most profound and eye-opening
episodes well so was this one this one is really really good you should you should definitely hear
this this is about someone who gets sued from essentially a lawsuit troll for copyright issues
and the different steps that he took to fight against it very very interesting show definitely
give this one a listen if you haven't heard it. Hopefully you'll never actually need the information
contained in it but it is good stuff to hear. Episode 1111 came to us from Poki at the Northeast
Linux Fest where he interviewed Robert Schveigert from OpenSus episode 12 Linux in the Shells back
with his episode Dan's episode number nine and this one is about the W command and Linux load
averages so somewhat related in a sense and spirit to free but to the eighth episode about free
very similar. Episode 1113 saving programs from Tivo by Ahuka changing gears a little bit for his
episode content but this one was really cool I don't know in a Tivo but I could really really
appreciate what he's talking about sort of the goals that he's got and and certainly hearing about
his tool chain is really interesting. Episode 1114 was I think the term is a blast from the past
it was specifically a Radio Freak America episode and of course the lineage of hacker public radio
can trace itself all the way back to Radio Freak America so that was kind of a cool thing to throw
in there as I'm sure you'll agree. 2015 talking to me newscast from DeepGeek talking about more
international news items and mostly hacker or I guess maybe even hacktivist related stuff.
2016 was the first episode by Gubnu about NYX the functional package manager Gubnu runs NYXOS
which is actually Linux operating system basing itself upon the NYX package management so
he's got a unique insight into into that world. Episode 2017 phone hacking Samsung admire from
brother red this was about the trials and tribulations of a phone a Samsung admire phone
that had fallen into snow not into the show as the show notes incorrectly describe. Episode 2018
interview with crystal of the free node project a lot of us use free node for chatting on IRC with
friends maybe getting support on different projects so hearing a voice from the free node project
you know kind of someone who's associated very closely with it so closely in fact that this
person appears on the podcast podcast.free node.net that's the free isn't node podcast so you can
listen to him being interviewed by our very own Ken Fallon episode one thousand and nineteen the
eight billion dollar iPod this episode comes from us to us from the TED Talk series and right there
at the end of the month that rascally DeepGeek snuck in another talk geek to me newscast
keeping us all informed about the tech and hacking and government related issues happening
all over the world and unless I'm mistaken that should bring us up to this episode which will be
episode ten twenty one and that's clatu talking about the shows that have happened for the past
thirty days and briefly recursively about his own community news episode normally here you would
get all of the different news that you should be aware of from hacker public radio itself but as far
as I know there really isn't anything new happening episode ten twenty four is upcoming but it's
already been recorded so if you didn't get in on that one you're not in it you can always submit
an episode though you there are so many different ways to submit episodes we take everything it
doesn't really matter what it is we have no limits or rules just make an episode and either email
admin and hacker public radio to tell us about it or post it on the ftp site you can get that
information by emailing us we can give you that info if you need it you can also just call
in an episode literally phone it in in the us that's two oh six two oh three five seven two nine
that number has changed recently but it is two oh six two oh three five seven two nine that's
the updated number in the uk that's two oh three four three two five eight seven nine that was
two zero three four three two five eight seven nine all you do there is pick up the phone dial
the number and speak your episode and we will put the beginning and end music onto it and get it
into the queue for you if you're the if you're a first time contributor that is if you have no
previous episode submitted then you get pushed to the beginning of the line your episode gets
pushed out to the public first thing I guess a good hacker way to get your episode always released
whenever you want is to keep using a different handle for every episode you release then you're
always first in line don't tell them I told you to do that though other than that I think that's it
that's hacker public radio hope you've been enjoying the past 30 days and I hope that you enjoy
the next 30 days too really thanks for listening and thanks for contributing and thanks for being
part of the hacker public radio community I'm sure we'll talk again soon you have been listening
to hacker public radio at hacker public radio does our we are a community podcast network the
release is shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows was contributed
by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever consider recording a podcast then visit our website
to find out how easy it really is hacker public radio was founded by the digital dog found and
new phenomenon computer cloud hbr is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com all binref
projects are crowd sponsored by linear pages from shared hosting to custom private clouds go to
lunar pages.com for all your hosting needs unless otherwise stasis today's show is released
under a creative commons attribution share a live video's own license
