Episode: 1053
Title: HPR1053: Zoke with a question
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1053/hpr1053.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 17:59:26

---

Hey everyone, this is Zoe, I am phoning up the HDR magic phone line.
In my cart, outside my work, it is exceedingly windy, so I apologise if you can hear any
of that.
I have a question for people.
I have listened to Leonard's outlaw, and they were talking about how they were having
issues with some donations and whether they were encountering with the charity so they
couldn't have the Google checkout blah blah blah.
A thought came to be, could we set up a charity?
Could we actually set up it?
I don't think we could set up a charity for HPR being a charity because the podcast,
you know, is sponsored by this and blah blah blah, the possible question is that, but could
we set up a separate charity?
You know, then it's podcast charity, not org or whatever.
I have no idea if that's the main thing, but could we do something like that?
And take donations where people could put a note and say, I want to donate to £6,000
production, you know, and then it's outlawed.
And then we use that and we send them the money, obviously we don't take a card, well,
it's not going to cost us anything, basically, for setting the charity, we're not going
to have a bunch of people on the payroll, but, you know, we would have to do this in several
countries.
But if there are a way we could actually do that, would that be, well, would that be
useful?
Because I mean, then people could call it as a tax donation, at least in the US, when
you make donation, you can claim the tax back from it.
In the UK, you can't, but the charity can claim the tax back and you get an extra donation
of, you know, something, a half cent or 20, whatever the PAT is, that's the tax rate
is not to get what it is, at least 11,000, actually, but extra bit of money there.
So I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a, you know, I've done some stuff for the local scouts and
I know they are, what they call a 501C3, whatever it is, something like that, for the
registered charity in the United States.
The can this be done, is this something that can be, that is easy to set up, or is this
something that basically we can't do because you need to prove very things you're a charity
we can't do that?
So it's a general question for everyone, is this something we can do?
Can we set the charity up?
I am very interested in the results of this, because I think that would be kind of a
cool thing.
Anyway, that's about it, you can contact me in the usual places, Zoxoro at gmail.com.exe,
Oscar Culo Echo, Fierro Oscar Romeo Uniform, gmail.com, that's on the my hack public website
page, the cards on the page, so, you know, there's a thought, so let me know what people think.
Right?
That's it.
See you later.
Today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, Share and Life, C.Don't Lie
