Episode: 1618
Title: HPR1618: OggCamp Attendees
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1618/hpr1618.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 05:53:29

---

This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello, this is Penny for Hacker Public Radio.
This is episode 1619 on 15th of October 2014.
This is the first episode in a series of 3 episodes with interviews from Alcambl last
weekend.
The first two interviews are just regular Alcambl attendees.
This is not quite true because the first one is Peter Cannon from Dictorpin Rocho, but
I'm sure he's okay with being bundled with Alistair, who is just a regular visitor who
wants to do an HPR episode, so I gave him the opportunity to just record a few sentences
and be on HPR the first time, hope he makes it another time with his own episode.
So we get started with Peter Cannon, who is a co-host on the Dictorpin Rocho, who had
also a life episode on Alcambl this year.
I grabbed and interviewed him before his episode happened, so that's what he has to say.
So I'm Peter Cannon, also known as Dictorpin on the internet, and one of the co-hosts of TDTRS,
which is the Dictorpin Rocho, the only podcast you should listen to.
So why should we listen to it?
I think because we are slightly different to some of the other podcasts, and we certainly
go into other areas that we feel other podcasts don't, so we may, on occasion, be supportive
of other vendors for one of our better words, such as Microsoft or Apple.
We do sometimes like to do subjects deliberately that will create a big flurry, because what
we feel we're about is creating dialogue.
So we don't just sort of spew news at you.
We give you things to think about.
I've stumped you, you don't have enough.
Yeah, that was way too much for me.
Well, Elinix's podcast talks of a Microsoft and Apple, doesn't sound like it.
Well, you say it's good to me.
Yeah, well, I think it is.
There's always been this, sort of, there's always been this, I'm going to say issue, but you
should probably not the right word, because you want to use Elinix and you want to promote
Elinix that you shouldn't look at other things.
You get a lot of people, I mean, especially for example, this kind of event, to Ogcam,
you can pretty much guarantee that 99.9% of the people at Ogcam are basically Elinix
or open source users.
And my own personal view and my co-host view is, how can we encourage other people to
use Elinix and open source if we only swim in our own pond?
If you stay in your own pond, you're not going to encourage anybody else to come into
that pond.
And so we feel that it's good to talk about, maybe Microsoft stuff, maybe Apple stuff,
because maybe those users, sorry, not those users, those users will say, oh, let's have
a listen to that.
And then you'll go, oh, well, what's, I don't know, what's this, Lieber office they're
talking about, let's give that a go.
So we try and be inclusive, we do have Microsoft users that listen to the show, and we want
all levels of users.
One of the things that I'm quite adamant to keep us on iTunes, I know some podcasts
don't like to be on iTunes, but I want us to be on there simply because I want to
reach as wide an audience as possible.
So how do you know, how do you tell the Windows users and Apple users from iTunes?
Generally, via the feedback, to be honest with you.
Let's both tune the show in our IRC channel.
In actual fact, we do have two or three people that, in actual fact, do work for Microsoft
in our IRC channel.
So you ever convinced someone, you ever got feedback that you still want to reach to Linux
because for you?
The way I've always looked at it, I'm, a lot of people will want a big huge victory.
So they will want somebody to go, oh, that's it, I've totally ditched Windows, and I'm
now 100% Linux.
For me, I believe it's a victory if I can even just get them to start using Open Source
software because I'm a, I'm a more an advocate of open source software rather than a specific
Linux Africa.
All right, so just like people start using a library of these tools.
Yeah, yeah, if they use, it's not a very good example, but I mean, if they use any
Mozilla products such as Firefox or Thunderbird, you know, if they, maybe I know that they
installed Audacity, we could standard all day really, off a list, but you know, the way
I look at it, if they've installed something open source, that's a victory.
All right, so give me an example, what, what kind of things do you discuss in the
postcards?
Um, so we, as it says on, on our sort of our abouters page, you know, we discuss everything
from, from Linux open source to the price of Fishing Paraguay, so you know, we, we, we,
just discuss everything.
What we tend to do is we tend to look through news stories for stuff that's creative
commons because that's, that's very close to my heart, obviously, Linux news stories,
but we, we try and find news stories that we feel that other podcasts won't cover.
So if you listen to it, as somebody said to me last night, which is an air show, you'll
find that yes, we do cover some of the main storylines, but the vast majority of our stuff
is important stuff, but that, uh, other shows sit for whatever reason, either find boring
or, or feel they haven't got enough time to cover.
Um, and so I think that as well, that aid air show in, in bringing more listeners to
us because it's sort of, you know, I can, I can, you can listen to the show that cannot
be named as we call it, I can, you know, we can listen to that, uh, and we know that
in actual fact, the self-same story is probably going to be covered on the Ubuntu UK podcast
or it's going to be covered on the full circle podcast, um, and that, to me, becomes boring
because you think, well, what differentiates you from everybody else, you know, you just
know that somebody's going to cover it.
For example, it's like heart bleed.
We know everybody was going to cover heart bleed, every managed dog covered heart bleed.
So we decided we would just give it a very small mention, and we would cover other stuff,
simply because, you know, what, why would you listen to us when you could listen to somebody
else who perhaps knows what it's all about?
Yeah, sometimes, sometimes all the Linux podcasts kind of sound the same, and cover the same
topics.
Yeah, true.
Yeah.
All right, then.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
I was a first interview, and as I was saying in the beginning, the next interview will
be Alistair, who hopefully will become a HBO host himself one time.
So good luck with that, and let's listen what he has to say.
Here we go.
All right, tell, I'm Benny, and I'm speaking to Alistair from, uh, the UK in Norwich,
from Norwich.
So, uh, yeah, I've really only got Linux in about a year ago, because I have to look
off a couple of central spots as it works, so, uh, and I just found out how I've got
an hour to drive each way, so I was like, how can I find out about it?
And I've had about podcasts, and then, uh, uh, nightwise, actually, told me about you,
uh, and he said, yeah, find out about it, and I've really enjoyed listening to different
people have to say kind of things, so, uh, I'm guessing I should actually give something
back to the community, really.
So, what, what, what could, what could you talk about, what, what, what do you do, what
are your interests?
Yeah, well, the bad thing is, I do Windows for a day job, so, yeah, I don't know if anybody
wants to know about Windows, but it's mostly about open source stuff, so, I don't feel
like I can give enough back yet, I don't really know that much about Linux or anything
to, uh, maybe networking, I could do a lot of networking, so maybe, uh, IP subnetting
perhaps, or rooting or something, and VLANs maybe?
Yeah, I'm sure it's something like this would be interesting, so your day job includes
Windows and Linux, or it's just Windows.
Windows, O, and Linux boxes, uh, we went a couple of, uh, different Linux applications
for a couple of customers, so I have to look after that, and then obviously I've started
using Cacti now to monitor all our bandwidths, all our customer sites, so it's quite good.
All right, nice, so why do you come to our camp?
Because last year when I started listening to podcasts, it was just the same time, and
then when we were coming back from our camp, and they were saying yes, it was a really
good event, and I, when you know it was interesting to podcasts from America, they were always
going on about the, uh, OLF and everything like that, and we must be something in the
UK, and I want to go into it kind of thing, to meet people and stuff, and it's really
odd coming to your faces, to actually, I've been nervous, because I don't really know
anyone in open source, and, uh, yeah, I've met a couple of people on the other podcast
so I know, it's really odd listening to their voice.
Yeah, nice, no, no, you're here, what, what do you, how do you like it?
It's really, yeah, it's really good, and I like it, so.
Are there any talks you plan to listen to, or are you just here for your community?
Just here for the community, and to listen to anything really, I'm really up to listen to
anything really, especially if I can learn some stuff like open source and meet new friends
really.
Did you see anything that's, that's like, uh, interests you in the talks, or anything
open source really?
Well, then that's a place, that's a place of counting, yeah, all right, thank you, thank
you for talking to me, and hope you will sometime record your own stuff, yeah, I put, uh,
a mic, so, uh, uh, yeah, so, yeah, you have to, you just get stored, yeah.
Okay, this was the first series of interviews, two interviews from attendees at the
Ocamp.
Next up, I will have some more interviews with people who organized the Ocamp and another
interview I did with Cornomenal with the Linux voice crew of the Linux Voice magazine.
So wait for them to turn up and the feed, and thank you for listening, have a nice day.
You've been listening to Heka Public Radio at Heka Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Heka Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself, unless otherwise stated, today's show
is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLive, 3.0 license.
