Episode: 1201
Title: HPR1201: In My Feed - Episode 01
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1201/hpr1201.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 21:31:44

---

Alright, my name's Steve and this is my Hecker Public Radio episode which I'm calling
in my feed having been inspired by the Contribute page with the requested topics. So first of all,
how was I going to do this? I decided initially that I'd write a script about how I got until
Linux. That was 3,200 word monologue so I thought I really couldn't do that to you. That would be so
dull and besides there's other stuff to say anyway. So I'm breaking it into sections and I'm using
rough notes to keep me on track. First of all, in my feed, my RSS feeds. Now this is something I
use, I use an RSS feed reader because otherwise I can't control the rat holding. It just means I wonder
around the internet aimlessly and never get on with anything. So in my RSS reader I find a number of
things but today just the comics. First of all, XKCD, Randall Monroe's XKCD is the must-see
geek comic strip. You're probably already and you can find it at xkcd.com.
Next up, Dilbert. Scott Adams has been making this for ages and in any IT office you'll
see it cut out of magazines and stuck on the wall. Although Dilbert's in my feed reader,
I tend to consume it on my Android phone using the quick Dilbert reader. Definitely a must-have app
if you like the Dilbert cartoons. One little experiment you can do with it is to wind it back to
10 years prior and work your way through the history of IT by looking at the Dilbert cartoons.
The next comic in my feed is an interesting little comic called Ellie on Planet X.
The artwork is what really attracts me to this one. It uses a very limited palette of
oranges, blues and grotes and stylistically for some reason puts me in the mind of the 1950s,
1960s. Basically Ellie is a little automated robot. It's been sent out to Planet X eight light
years away from Earth. 30 years later after landing there she explores the planet and talks to
and interacts with the life on the planet which makes sometimes really amusing, always really pretty
little comic. This is written by Jim. This is by Jim Anderson. Well done Jim.
After that Ralph the Destroyer. Ralph is the other way around. He's an alien, come to Earth.
Basically he's a destroyer. He's an indestructible alien from some kind of mega race and he
unfortunately looks cute and really can't come to terms with destroying the Earth even though it's
his job. So that leads to some really fun scenarios. This cartoon style, very different,
monochromatic, black and white mostly. Apart from occasional weak we can issues or
rarer issues where you get a full page column cartoon where we find that he's actually green not black.
Yep great little cartoon this one. You can find this at RalphTheDestroyer.com.
Okay now for podcast feeds. Similarly to before I'm not going to tell you all of the feeds that I
have because that would take too long so I'm going to concentrate on just the music feeds today.
The first of which is The Bugcast. The Bugcast is hosted by Dave and Caroline every week on a
Friday night at 9.30 GMT or British summertime depending on what we're using here in the UK.
Every week we get eight tracks of music that is independent music and quite often it's creative
commons music which you can go and find and download after listening to it on the show.
They both choose music. They choose alternate tracks each and they both have good taste in music.
One of the fun things about The Bugcast is they also run a live chat room whilst the show's
recording which is great fun to join in. They're part of the Amped Association of Music podcasting.
They also work closely with John the Nice Guy who's CCC hit site. I'm sure is featured in a
previous Hacker Public Radio episode. The next music podcast is called Suffolk and Cool. Probably
the most carefully pronounced podcast in the world. This is Peter Clevver's podcast and he
records this out in the barn in Suffolk and he chooses some of the best independent music from
all around the world that you'll hear anywhere. This is a must listen to show. He's the
John Peel of Independent Music. Fantastic show. Go find it at Suffolk and Cool.com.
The third music podcast I'm going to tell you about is Nick Tans is this thing on.
Nick Tans podcasts a little bit different to the others in that he is actually a musician.
So he has a little bit of a different take on the music that he plays and also very
different sort of style than the other guys. It was definitely worth a listen. I don't actually
listen to this one every week but drop into it when I have time. I find this one at is this thing
on.com. Another great music podcast is Rat Hole Radio. This is Dan Lynch from the Linux Outlaws.
It's his music podcast that he puts out once every fortnight and Dan like Nick is also a musician
and that's absolutely excellent taste in music. Although somewhat eclectic you can get anything
from a string quartet to a trance music and reggae all in the one show. However, definitely
worth a download and you'll find that at Rat Hole Radio.org.
Finally, it's Amped, the Association of Music Podcasts compilation podcast. Every week
one of the Amped members will present a show that comprised of tracks suggested by other
members of the association. Another great show to listen to. I don't manage to listen to this
one every week but when I do I'm generally quite pleased with what I'm listening to.
And this can be found at Amped.libsin.com.
Okay now it's time for Linux Command of the Week. Well this isn't a weekly podcast but if it were
this would be my Linux Command of the Week. Okay okay okay okay Richard I'll do it properly.
GNU Command of the Week and it's SCP. This is where I'll probably get feedback to tell me it's not
GNU either. I'm not heavily researched this. I'm not Dan Washgo after all. Anyhow, SCP. This is a
really useful little command I've been using quite a bit lately. It stands for Secure Copy.
Basically it uses the SSH mechanisms to do a copy. It works just like the SCP command but allows
you to move a file from one machine to another. So in its simplest form you can use it with
SCP, space, the source file, definition, space, the destination file definition.
Either the source or the destination file can be designated as being on the remote machine.
This is done by proceeding the file with user name at hostname colon. The SCP program
uses the same library of code that supports SSH which means that in executing the command you'll
have to deal with some additional interaction but setting up the SSH connection requires.
If you've never SSHed onto a particular machine it'll prompt you to accept the RSA key fingerprint
of the remote machine. Then you're prompted for the password to match the user name you're using
with the remote machine. Then the file transfer will happen and the progress bar is shown as it's
transferred. So for example if I've two machines named Neptune and Jupiter I'm working logged
into Neptune as Steve but I need that file episode 1.org that's sitting in the directory
slash shared slash audio on Jupiter and I want it copying into the current directory on Neptune.
I know that the file on the remote machine is accessible to the account John and I'll have
the password for John. So at the command prompt I enter SCP space. John at Jupiter colon slash shared
slash audio slash episode 1.orgg. Space dot slash. On executing the command if I get prompt
to accept the RSA key I type yes and enter. Then I'm prompted for John's password I enter the
password then I can watch the progress bar as the file transfers. It's pretty simple and pretty
handy like most command line programs are a whole bunch of flags to make the command do more.
I'll mention just one minus R which allows a whole directory of files to be transferred between
machines. Because the commands based on SSH it has options to invoke many of the SSH options
if you intend to use SCP have a quick look at the man page it's pretty concise and readable.
One last thing to mention about SCP is that it's actually possible for both source and destination
files to be on remote machines. SCP is a really powerful tool and while I'd never found until
a couple of weeks ago so I thought it was worth letting everybody know.
Okay noises and sounds were from the free sound project this is the end of the episode
I hope you've enjoyed listening and if you have thank you for listening.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show like all our
shows was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself. If you ever consider recording a podcast
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by
the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club. HPR is funded by the binary
revolution at binref.com all binref projects are proudly sponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds go to lunar pages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a like, lead us our license.
