Episode: 1632
Title: HPR1632: 5150 Shades of Beer: 0002 Wichita Brewing Company
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1632/hpr1632.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 06:08:05

---

It's June 4th of November 2014.
This is an HDR episode 1,632 entitled Shades of Mirror, Mirror, Mirror 2, which is our
brewing company and is part of the series, Libra Office.
It is hosted by 5150 and is about 51 minutes long.
Feedback can be sent to 5050 at Linuxpacement.com or by leaving a comment on this episode.
The summary is here, brinking same part 2.
This episode of HDR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HDR15, that's HDR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com.
Howdy folks, this is 5150 again for Hacker Public Radio and thank you this evening for
joining me on a very special 5150 Shades of Beer.
Yes, I've come up with a name for the series.
This is going to be a little different because tonight we're not going to be talking about
micro brews that I purchased from a package store.
But you will remember in the first episode that shopping for replacement furniture and
other things for rental home and of course eventually it'll go into the new house when
it's built.
It has afforded me the opportunity to make a few trips to the one city of much of any
size.
Well, I apologize Kansas City, but Kansas City Kansas isn't that big by comparison.
Of course I mean the air cap, go with your talk.
And on this last trip, well, second to last trip, I was just, well I tell you what, when
I've been there, I've been taking the opportunity to go to some like fast food restaurants, you
know, especially boutique fast food restaurants because dad, you know, when he's with me, he
wants to do the big eating experience.
So there's places that I've passed along there, so that looks neat.
I'd like to try that.
You know, there's spank, well, I've been spankled, dad's been spankled.
It's a, you know, Wichita sort of higher end fast food tradition.
And there's another one I noticed, oh, what's this?
I'll come back to it later in the show, but it's somebody's, and the reason I'm going
to come back to it later in the show, I found at least on this computer, if I stop in
the middle and start over again, it doesn't seem to, doesn't like that.
It doesn't want, it wants to start over, clear from the beginning and I got slide everything
or make a separate recording and I've had the thing hang up on me every time I've tried
to stop and start in the middle.
So until I figure that out, it's going to be stream of consciousness.
But yeah, I've several times on Wichita with dad going doctor's appointments, what not,
past this steak burger and custard, or steak burger and frozen custard place, and
they're both, both sound pretty good.
So the last time, or the second last time in the Wichita, because the first time it's
to pick up a lift chair, no, it's the first time it's to order a lift chair, they didn't
have anything to stock.
Second time was to pick it up in the transport van and I thought, well, let's check the
custard place.
The furthest west one, which had been closest to me, that was also rather north from Kellogg,
which is 54 highway, of course, for anybody familiar with Kansas and none of you folks would
be.
You know, it was way, way north and so I followed my GPS, I was starting to question my GPS,
you know, where is it taking me, and if you guys noticed that with Google maps lately,
I mean, mine is flaky, it always gets me.
If I trust it, I don't know if it was one time it didn't get me where I was supposed
to go.
I was like an hour late figuring out where it was.
It's not good with these little like, you know, medical complexes and industrial parks,
you know, if these little streets that, you know, they're sort of made up by the people
who build the park, the contractors or whatever, who are lays out the park and, you know,
I don't think Google really knows that much about, necessarily knows where those streets
are.
So it took me clear, you know, well, now I don't think I ever mention them because I haven't
done any podcast much, but my first point was the burn doctor, which is not as ominous
as it sounds, you know, and I did really, really well, you know, as far as healing goes.
I wouldn't let that bad hurt, and the healing went really, really fast.
But you know, it took me to a place, you know, blocks and blocks and half the city away
from where I should have been, and it was strange because, you know, St. Francis Hospital
does the burn treatment in, or is primary for burn treatment in what you talk.
I drove right past a place that, you know, St. Francis Clinic, which is nowhere near
the hospital, but it's got, you know, where some of the St. Francis doctors have their
offices.
So I thought, well, this got to be the place.
Turns out it wasn't.
I went in there.
I said, no, wait a minute, you're doctor in here.
So, you know, I was going to do some call around, while I finally found it on, you know,
on Google, ironically enough, and called them, where are you people?
I said, no, we're clear over here by Jabbar Airport and whatnot, and gave me the direction,
I finally found them.
But, you know, they're really cool about you.
The most doctors, you miss your appointment, that.
Come back in four weeks, you know, these people were, oh yeah, you know, just, we'll see
you when you get here.
And I have to wait very long in the waiting room or anything.
They work me in.
So, yeah, this is pretty cool.
And the doctor, you know, it's, oh, man, you're doing way too much, you know, when you're
spend too much insurance money, you know, whatever, because they were having me go in every
day, and I'm addressing changes, and now I'll just get you some white tarry cloth towels
from Walmart, wrap that sucker, you know, clean it up, quit trying to scrub yourself to
death, but get a good clean, and wrap it up in a tarry, you know, well, put the, put
the appointment on it, and then wrap it up in a tarry cloth towel, and wrap it a spast
bandage around it to hold that, and, you know, and he said, the other arm, well, that's
healed.
You don't just keep it out of the sun, and keep putting the, you know, I had to cream
on my face.
Yeah, this is a jet.
Well, I was going to do this on KPO, but I might as well do it here, you know, cause the
first few weeks, I couldn't wear a belt or anything, you know, just because my, my, my thumbs
and my fingers were too messed up to, you know, to bring a belt or, you know, a pants
yes, I got like shorts from Walmart and holding them up with suspenders and had a couple
white shirts and, you know, had all this white cream stuff on my fat burn cream on my
face that was supposed to stay on there all the time, and I said, oh, you get really bad
scarred unless you, you know, cause they were, they were, you know, me to me, not me to
me.
Uh, they were, you know, nagging me to hospital, so you blow your nose, you wipe the stuff
off, you know, and it's like, well, I need to blow my nose, you know.
And I said, you know, you gotta leave that stuff on there, you'll be horribly scarred in
the face.
Well, you know, I'm, I got home and I didn't keep the regimen quite, you know, after the
first few days, quite that, uh, well, well enough, I guess, cause I, you know, I'm not horribly
scarred in the face, I don't look any better than I ever did, I'm sorry, but, uh, you
know, uh, everything seems to work out fine.
Man, I am way off topic here.
Well, Ken's brought you on, turning into another podcast, all right.
So, so my way to this way, out of my way, stake burger and custard place and, uh, I don't,
well, if I got the furniture store to pick up the, uh, the chair, there was, you know, I
done all this run around from that place and back to the furniture store, there's one
across the street from the furniture store, uh, I don't know if that's what I saw, no,
I think I saw a third one yet was the one that I'd gone past a couple of times and
picked my interest, as far as the, as the stake burger and custard, frozen custard
place, the frozen custard was really, really pretty good.
Stake burger, mmm, you know, it was, well, for fast food, it was a really good burger.
I have to say that as far as going in your local pub restaurant and ordering the burger,
you know, no, it doesn't compare at all, but, you know, I can't, I can't fault them
for that.
A little spendy, you know, between, between the, uh, frozen custard and the stake burger,
I'll have to say that, not a place that would probably enjoy, well, he, you would enjoy
the custard.
I don't think he could finish one anymore, but, uh, he would enjoy it, as I don't think
he'd be too, any more impressed by the stake burger than I am, but it's probably not
a place.
I'm ever going to get to go when I'm not by myself.
And now that I've been there, I, I truly don't feel need to go there again.
This, there's, there's this other place that I did see and was very intrigued by driving
by it.
That I did get to go the next time I went to, uh, to what you taught.
And that was just purely, purely for relaxation, it was kind of snafu or maybe I didn't
keep up my end, you know, would, uh, would have an idea when dad was going to get out.
And then out, out of the, uh, rehab and recovery center, kind of like a rest home with physical
therapy and all that stuff, you know, I'm sure you guys have heard.
He was, if you guys just blown away, I'm talking about fire and whatever.
Last weekend in June, and you, I'm sure if you listen to KPO, you've heard about this
or if you follow me on G plus or Facebook, I just, I feel like probably people being
on Facebook.
I'm sorry, folks.
Uh, I guess I'm there.
Resistance is somewhat futile.
But if you follow me, any of those places heard me heard, you know, or heard, you know,
this story's been repeated while they're podcasters.
Last weekend in June, I got in late, I didn't get in, why didn't get cleaned up about
10 o'clock at night because my pickup broke down and, uh, so, yeah, listen, well, I need
to.
And then some elaborate work or work on very elaborate recipe, I don't know if it turned
out very good anyway, because I already messed it up once.
So I didn't want to change it altered too much again.
So it was called for rather than like pan-frying chicken, you know, deep frying it in, you
know, submerged in oil.
And the thing was, you know, of course, said, oh, it's 10 o'clock, there's nothing on
TV now.
I'll turn on Netflix and watch Doctor Who.
You know, it happened with me as I, you know, because I'm lazy and irresponsible.
I, uh, watched Doctor Who for nearly two hours and, oh, wow, look at the time.
I better, you know, fit finish preparing this meal and, uh, so I, you know, I did feel
to walk with oil, turn the heat up on it and I said, well, you know, really where we
have this meal, I need to get dad prepared for dinner, which takes a while.
And so I thought I walked over and turned, turned the burger off.
What must have actually happened is I turned the burner up and, you know, the rest is history.
Yeah, I went to go get stuff to get dad ready and all of a sudden I knew whoosh and, uh,
lights went out and, cause the breaker box and I was outside of the wall from the stove.
And I was out there in the porch where the fire extinguisher was.
I thought I could put my hand right on it and I, you know, I fumbled around for a minute
or maybe more and could not put my hand on the thing.
And it's okay, we're going to get dad.
We're going to go ironically.
There was enough light from the fire to see, you know, so I fired up his, uh, uh, hit,
is, uh, mobile, electric, you know, wheeled chair thing and got over where I could pick
him up and set him in the chair and out the house we went.
Uh, so that's that story.
Okay, so, yeah, now we're homeless, uh, well, no, I shouldn't say.
And thanks for everybody who contributed to, to the, uh, fun, anything campaign.
I just, it's not the money so much as I'm just blown away by the support from folks
out there, you know, and people, I probably recognize you by hand or if not by name,
you know, so, and sorry, I haven't been on KPL for the last two weeks to, to, well, last
two fortnite to acknowledge that and, uh, yeah, well, I wasn't there last fortnite because
I was at a party, thrown by my friend, which we're getting to very slowly getting to.
Uh, so, okay, so the second trip into, uh, Wichita.
I drove by and saw Wichita Brewing Company on a corner, 13th and Tyler, looked very,
very good.
And you see, they also had like a piece of real thing going, but, you know, obviously,
it was like a brew pub.
So when I, uh, you know, when after I'd had my, um, mediocre hamburger and fairly decent
frozen custard, I went to the furniture store and for I went in, I took that opportunity
to call the, uh, number on the Wichita Brewing Company's website.
I found their website really easy to find.
In fact, it's Wichita Brew.com, uh, if you won't fall along and I asked them, well, you
know, I met, well, first and then, and then I, I clicked on their beer and, oh, my goodness,
if you, if you like beer and you click, if you, if you click on their beer list page,
you know, your mouth is going to start watering.
And I can tell you the pizza is that good too.
But, uh, so I said, man, I got to get some of this beer, sometimes I call them and says,
you know, do you guys, do you guys, uh, have it in bottles or, you know, is it in any liquor
store anywhere locally and it's a no, we're, we're, we're planning for that.
But really the only way we can let you take it out of the buildings in a growler and for,
you know, for, you folks familiar with beer pubs, I don't know if you call it something,
uh, growler, something different in other countries.
I think it's more of a European concept.
A growler is like this, you know, six, big 64 ounce bottle, not, uh, pressurized like,
uh, uh, you know, bearing a story as just a screw on cap and they just port, you know,
port from the tap in there and you take it home, you put in your fridge and you, and
you drink it, uh, and you share friends.
So that's what I did when it came back a week later.
Uh, I came back as a, uh, uh, a friend of mine on Facebook that, uh, got a new from college
in my fraternity.
Uh, he said, you know, you really need to, uh, come up to my October fest that I'm throwing.
Yeah.
This, this is who this guy is.
He throws his own October fest.
And man, you should see that I won't go too much to you.
She's see this place that he's got out in the country and it's like the whole community
of other people, uh, with houses about a thousand feet apart, you know, in, in this great
country setting and sharing some resources together.
So, and, you know, well, uh, I'd like to retire to a place like that.
But, uh, so, and, you know, of course, all his neighbors came over and everybody's
supposed to bring a couple of six packs of beer and I thought, man, what a great
opportunity.
I'll go, when I get to town, I'll have some pizza and I'll bring some growlers out there.
I didn't know how many I was going through the list.
I'd had a couple, well, we'll get to it.
I had a couple beers with my pizza and then, you know, between that and the three growlers,
I brought pretty much covered everything that I really wanted to taste that day.
Though I do, I do intend to go back, try, try to fix everything was excellent.
Again, including the pizza, but so, let's see.
And, and of course, the, the, the growlers I got were premium growlers.
So they were usually growlers, $12 for filling and then $4 for the actual bottle.
And the premium ones were $15.
So, and all with all three that I got were that and, and growlers, uh, 64 ounce, uh,
of course, a six pack of beer would normally be 72 ounces.
So, I'm, I'm told I'm really spoiled around here.
The price of beer, you know, that a lot, a lot of the micro breweries,
you can get, you know, for eight bucks, and I'm told a lot of places in this country,
you know, 10, 12 bucks is normal for a micro brew, 12 packs.
So, you know, so fit the 15 for a premium, you know, small batch beer,
don't, you know, that doesn't seem too far out of reason.
And if you look at the ones, you gotta look at this logo because this, this comes from,
of course, the picture of John Brown, uh, that is in the, uh, capital building in Topeka.
That's a big huge mural across this wall.
And I'll bet even, even our friends listening here internationally,
uh, you have seen this image even if, uh, you didn't recognize who it was and who,
you know, who John Brown was and his relationship to the history of Kansas.
I'm sure if you looked at this, you would, you would know the mural that it comes from.
And of course, uh, so it's, it's old John Brown and he's got his arms outstretched and he,
he's got a mug of beer in each hand.
So, it's really great.
Just for that, I had to go there.
And so I'm, I'm holding glass, you know, in one hand, you, you think for all the beer,
I got, they would have given me the glass, but all right, well, you know, it's a great glass.
And I got three growlers, two of which I left my host as, uh, house gifts, because of course,
they're going to have a lot better, easier opportunity to, uh, to go back and get them refill
than I will. You know, I don't get to what you told more than a couple times a year usually.
I may be looking for excuses now, but so I kept the one growler.
And it's still, I've got at least a beer in there or not, a little more.
So we'll start with that because frankly, you, you kind of probably hear in your voice,
I'm going to a little horse here. So give me a chance and if you're on the Wichita Brewing page,
then click on the, uh, beer link and I'll give you a rundown on the, on the, just wonderful beers
that I tried last weekend. Oh, and, you know, and I guess I haven't talked, uh, detail about the
private October fest. My friend Eric had all these little, a little bigger in a shot glass,
but numbered, you know, he's a, he's a, um, graphics art sign creator by, by trade. So he's got all
the stuff. I mean, etch glasses and said October fest and each one was numbered. So if you
set your glass down, you'd get, you could find the same glass again. But so instead of drinking
whole beers, we're, you know, we're taking them by the drum and, you know, so it's, um, is, is kids
were helping, helping out by bringing the beers around. So I could set a quarter,
a quarter out in the courtyard and, you know, just sit there and drink these little shots of
beer all night and I was doing pretty good. Now I behave myself, but oh man, epic party. Thanks,
Eric. Um, but so, and, and I'm not going to try to tell you about the beers we had at the party.
I thought like I was, I wasn't taking notes except the one ghost pepper face killer. If you know
anything about peppers, ghost pepper has the highest Scoville rating of any pepper, these things
are literally lethal weapons. So, you know, it's about an important evening. Eric comes around
with a bottle and is, and I hold out my, uh, I, I drain what's in the little glass and hold
my glass. And he pours me just a little, you know, about a quarter inch in bottom of the glass. And
it's like, well, it's what's your arm broken. He said, no, no, you, you want to try that? And so
it was that ghost pepper beer and all my goodness, that stuff will light you up. And that's about as
much as I had. I can't, I cannot imagine anybody drinking a whole beer, you know, whole bottle,
much less a six pack of that stuff, which they must have had, you know, I'm surprised it wasn't
all around, you know, the other five weren't laying around the next day, because I got to bring
some of the beers home with me. And no, I'm not going to review them either. They don't count.
Okay. So, you know, that was the part, excellent party, excellent opportunity to, you know, to,
to go to a really, really great pub brew brewery. And so, when I said, I'm thirsty,
well, I'm horse and I'm thirsty. So, you know, let's, let's scroll down here. If you come down,
the one I brought home was a sour. And, you know, that's one I was hoping there'd be some left. I
don't know. I think I got turned on the sours when Tracy Holtz was talking about on the old
pod brewer show, you know, he, he in door had the Monday episode and a buyer and I and
Sporks Saber. Red had the, the Thursday night show he was and but Tracy didn't episode on
the sours and how they're made. And well, what is it's a Belgian beer. And you, well, I also had
to say so on, which is a Belgian ale, the say so on's are made, you know, in the winter months.
And what, but they're made to be drunk during during the hotter months of the year. So, you know,
such a way I get, I get that the farm labor is almost paid in beer. You could have like five,
was a five five liters of beer a day. I'd go farm for in Belgium for five liters of beer a day.
But they're made during the winter when, you know, things were less hectic, you know, they had
extra help around. And there's mainly to give to the migrant farm workers. So, one necessarily,
you know, in the back in the day, they're, you know, maybe not necessarily the best effort. They
tend to be, you know, a little tart with a little fruitiness. Now, the, the salaries by contrast,
they're made in the summer. And traditionally, unlike every other beer, you know, beers are usually
kept very well contained and sealed in their brewing environment to keep out what's called
wild bacteria. You know, you don't want to, you have to add bacteria for the, for the yeast to grow
and the beer to brew. But you, you want to be the bacteria that you intended to put in there.
Whereas the sours, they, and maybe not so much anymore. I bet it's a little more controlled.
But traditionally, back in the day, the sours were, they were done in open casts. And it was
during the summer, you know, when everything was lively and growing. And, you know, so that,
so that just whatever was floating through the air would be responsible for,
that was me taking the cap off the growler. So there's a little bit of natural fermentation there.
But it makes a very interesting and different beer. You know, I said, I've acquired a taste for,
well, I shouldn't say it. I don't know what, I don't have any sours a couple of times. It was
acquiring a taste. When we were back in Philly for OCP Live One, you know, let's see, yeah, last
year's course, 2014, it's 2013. Last known God took us to one of his favorite,
Upper Pub, that was one of his favorites. And they had a sour. In fact, in fact, I kind of like
the one in Philly, maybe a little better. And I had a little more sweet to it with the sour.
Though, you know, and traditionally in Belgium, if you order sour in Belgium or Germany,
I guess they haven't, I also haven't in Germany, because Tracy said he got hooked on him when
he was serving in Germany. But traditionally, and well in Philly, not in Wichita, but in Philly,
they give you, you know, the sweet syrup to pour into your beer. You know, and I tried it,
you know, first without the syrup. And then I poured the syrup in and tried it. I really wish I'd
left syrup out. That's the sour in Philly. So it's, and Tracy, I guess, he said that that's the way
he prefers it. So it wasn't such a unique, I mean, if every other beer was a sour in America,
at least every other microbrew, it's probably the uniqueness and the novelty more than
oh, wow, I really like this. So, you know, that's a good beer. And we're going to pour this in from the
Wichita Brewing Company, Growler, into the Wichita Brewing Company glass that I got for five
dollars. Oh, sit down and I do not want to spill the remainder. And it has sort of,
and the second stiff is a lot more sour. At first, it's a little maybe floral, fruity sweet.
That's just the aroma.
And it's kind of a sweet and sour taste, mainly sour. I'm going to say a lot of folks,
you know, if this is, I think it's going to be a choir taste for folks. If you're adventurous,
you know, try a Sarkasine Findem now. In the stores, it's just that,
well, one of my trips to the Wichita grocery stores. Well, that was my second visit this summer,
but I said, I hate to encourage these breweries that, you know, only give you four,
12 ounce beers in a pack, rather than sex, and then charge a premium for four beers,
you know, because I've had those. And, you know, they're so good, but man, not for
effectively half again or more of the price than other micro breweries.
So, and I asked them, well, do you have any sellers that aren't and those little four packs? And
he said, well, you got that, you know, we got a bunch of them and said, I didn't see them,
so no, those are, oh, not the four packs. No, we don't have any art in four packs, but
he said, the sellers cost more to produce. Now, I imagine they do. Probably more of this
than novelty, rather than any additional cost because, you know, you're, you're just leaving
the top of the cask off. Okay, let me take another sip here. My throat feels much better now.
So, you know, sweet on the tongue at first and then, you know, more sour.
Don't really detect a whole lot of hoppy taste there.
So, you know, yeasty, baby. I told you guys before, I'm more
better tasting beer than growing an explaining beer. Maybe we should have Tracy come on as a
guest. He can, you know, we can just, we can just cut in everything that, from pod brewers,
where it links to explain to door what each type of beer was on the first few episodes.
Or, per-yet, save us the trouble. Go back and listen to pod brewers. It was a great show.
It's still out there at podburst.net. Okay. So, you know, but I did like the sour.
Well, let's see, and I think that's under Belgian sour. Huh, I know I saw it on the website.
But I don't know. I don't, main series. I do not see it right now. I see the dubel, which I also had.
See this, they saw on. See the imperial IP. I'm not, is that the one I had? I don't think it's the one I had.
No, I had the Catherine III imperial IPA. Here I'm doing, you know,
giving you previews. All right. So, let me, let me go back to the, I can tell you from this list
which ones I had. Started out when I was in there eating the pizza. Oh, let me jump to the
pizza. I've talked about beer. Let me jump to the pizza for a minute. And, you know, this is one of
those tragically hip sort of, you know, especially pizza places. There's a lot more, you know,
barbecue pizza, chicken, you know, chicken pizza, stuff like that than there is traditional,
you know, Italian sausage and, and stuff pizza. But, you know, the one I had was theitis.
And that is one of the Italian pizza. And it's essentially like two thin, it's about nine inches.
Little spending maybe for single person pizza, but then you look at pizza hut and
what you're spending for what you get. I don't know if these guys that have the
you know, Eastern pizza fetish would approve. I think they might like this.
But, it's essentially two thin crust pizzas one on top of the other.
You know, because there's two, there's two layers of dough and some of the ingredients are between
the layers and some of them are on top. But, it says that layer dough, add a layer to, oh, cream
cheese. That's why it was kind of sweet. And American cheese, Italian sausage and spicy
capicola. I know I'm butchering that. So that's, that's the description. It is, let's be the cream
cheese. There was sort of a sweet taste, well, there was a sweet taste to it. If you don't like a
why in pizza, you probably want to make another selection. So, and there's other stuff besides
pizza on the menu and you know, all kinds of appetizers and whatnot. Okay, so that's the one
pizza. No, I didn't try every pizza. I'll get there. I'll get there. This is a place I could
probably bring dad. He likes pizza. Okay, so let's go back to the beers page. Do beers.
Okay, the first one I had was the Belgian dubel. And this is interesting. A lot, a lot of
dubels are often sweet. This was sort of fruity sweet. And I think that may be more, you know,
actually traditional European. I think the ones we have, the ones I've had here, I wouldn't say
were fruity. I think they may be more like that. Actually, if you go to Belgium,
and yes, this lands heavily sweet from the use of candy sugar characteristic of the style.
So, you know, you know what a Belgian ale taste like, that you know, it's a little
straw, a dubels, a little stronger in alcohol usually. And then a regular ale and a little sweeter.
And I think a triple is more like a stout, you know, maybe a little more eat the more alcohol,
but also a little more hoppy. This was not really hoppy at all. Okay, and then the second one I
had with my meal, you know, I figured I'd get a wife too, is the valley of vanilla powder.
And the many pieces of the beer dessert, well, I don't know. That was what I found,
you know, very intriguing about the vanilla powder. It was not really very sweet. It was more
like a nutty vanilla taste. I mean, you could taste vanilla, but it was not certainly not a surpy
sweet beer. So, I quite liked it. And then I had the three growlers. And the first of those
that I had were the, what was the sour? That was the one I really wanted to try. So, you know,
I don't know what else I can say about. I mean, you know, if you like a sour, I think I don't
think you'll be disappointed. And of course, the second one was the Saeson. You didn't even see
that one open eventually. I got open and I said, it was got passed around and couldn't, you know,
you can't tell from the bottle, of course, because the growls are all the same, but it was off. They
write it on the cap when they fill it. But, fill my little glass. And I said, that is definitely
the Saeson. Because the other two, at least I got a full mug. When I got the Saeson, it was just a
little glass. I got a couple times, I had less than that than any of the other growlers that I brought
with me. Like I said, the Saeson is originally brewed in Belgium during the winter to give to the
micro workers that come around in the summer. Some of these, I can see on the list, I definitely would
have tried if they had been available. I think the list actually, the restaurants are a little
different from the list online. And they've got a Facebook page. If you're really interested,
you live in what you're talking. You may want to look at their Facebook page. So they said the
Facebook page is more, when I talked to the guy on the phone that one time, he said the Facebook
page is a lot more current than the website is. So there's, yeah, let's see. So I don't see,
I don't know, no, here it is. Fruit, Delice, mango, Saeson, mango, okay, yeah. That's pretty good
description of it. And then the rest of the description is basically what I've told you about
what a Saeson is. Say, henna funk. Because, you know, if you find a sour is a bit much for you,
try a Saeson. And then I had the Catherine III imperial ale and thou man. I just had one
ahead of full glass over just the one. I went back to get some more and that one, that one was empty.
So I think that was the hit of the party or at least the hit of the ones I brought.
Oh man, rich, smooth, you know, just definition of imperial style. And it looks like you're on the
list, you know, they may have a couple different, you know, I didn't see them on the ones that were
available to me that day, but they, and of course some things are seasonable. I should have grabbed one
the, uh, programs or, I mean, menus brought with me. So let's see, starting from the top on the
menu is the vanilla port have had that. I stayed away from the hobby stuff because you guys know,
I'm not, I'm not a hobby. I mean, I don't mind. I said on the, on the previous show, the,
you know, my favorite beers when I haven't tried yet. So then I mean, I won't pick up a hobby beer
and try it. Doesn't mean I don't like some, um, medium-hoppy beers. I'm usually something that's
incredibly hoppy. Yeah, I'll try it once and I probably won't get it again. Not to mean, I don't
write, you know, don't appreciate it, but there, there's just stuff that I like better. Okay, so
the next, the next announcement is V.6 IPA. The top heads unite. So it must, must be, they
must think it's fairly hoppy. The next one's half with wheat. I don't think I saw that on the list
when I was there, but I like me some wheat beer. Uh, thunder blonde, uh, about the hockey club,
I'd probably jump over this that one anyway. Then the Belgian dubel, which I told you about,
uh, the 502 Amber, uh, Carmel, toasted malt dance across the palette with American hop flavor
balancing. So this is going to be more on the hoppy side. The English mind of this is interesting
because the English beer, they serve both cold, you know, as American beers are and just slightly
chilled. In other words, they, apparently they store the, uh, cask in the base button. Of course,
it's all, you know, it's all on tap. So it's it, they call it at basement temperature.
So you could really get the real warm beer or English warm beer experience. If you, if you order
the genuine British beer, another hoppy beer, one hopper, peel, ale, and the rest they say are
seasonal and the say song. Uh, yeah, I guess you wouldn't want to serve a say song in the winter.
You want to keep it traditional. Uh, keeper, keeper of the grains. I didn't, I didn't see that one.
So it's probably winter beer. Uh, I mean, it wasn't the restaurant. Uh, malt bomb of a beer.
Uh, in collaboration with global liquor. Okay, global liquor. I've seen their ads. It's a liquor store in
what you talk. Uh, with cans, brewed with cans of sweetened barley. So yeah, I would, I bet that's
one I would really, really like. And another imperial IPA. So now we're down the epic series.
Rob Timus. Chinook imperial IPA. It's a single hop. Okay, Chinook imperial IPA with uh, River City
brewery. Hank is wiser brewery and walnut river brewery county. So it needs, these are other
places I should go check out 8% APV and 105 I be used. So that's a, that's a, that's a measure of
hoppiness. Okay, not imperial stat imperial IPA. So I, I'd probably stick with the stat, but uh,
I try this, you know, is it, you know, take one for the team. No, I like a good IPA.
Seal team six black IPA, dark beer, subtle roast character. I'm just, because I'm just reading the
website, you understand that. I need to try all these. Uh, like chocolate and malt notes,
probably be pretty good. Mass hysteria rye, I do like me some rye beer. Bicy rye character,
haunts the senses, has this frighteningly, uh, balanced epic ale disguises its strength.
Okay, modern, in carbonation and medium full body. Yeah, I don't think that was on the list. I
definitely would have got that barrel H beers to seal you one from Napa Valley wine barrels.
Okay, so it's, uh, it gets its name because, uh, it says it is a sour and it gets, it gets the name
because one of the wine barrels I got from Napa Valley head towards the seal you're written on it
in crayon. So, undertones of passion through. Okay, so that might be more like the one I had
back east, more, more, more of a fruity flavor along with the sour. Okay, uh, 10 IBUs. So,
yeah, you can say, well, the, the captain three was 76, so it's fairly hoppy. 10, you know, not so much.
I don't see, you, I can't even pronounce it. You squish, breathe the shiraz, age, Belgian,
barley rolls for shiraz is another type of wine, so it must be shiraz casts again. Oh, dark and
warming with notes of currents and the barley wine is something that's really high ABV. I think
anything under over about nine is considered barley wine rather than beer legally. So, uh, uh,
anchor brewing company, they have a barley one. It's, it's a little spending too. Oh, but man,
that is nice. That is very good. Well, that's 11 APV. And some of these coming soon, and it's
like a milk stout around. I like these, a lot of these were already on the menu.
Coca-dose, dose porter, I would have tried that if it had been there. Probably the milk stout too.
Brown IPA. Oak age, Jumkin pumpkin. I think that was on there, but, you know, I'm certainly,
I'm pretty heavy on pumpkin eels for my first trip into Wichita that I haven't got to. So,
Oak age, four monks built in quad eels. That's probably more like a triple or is there quad?
And Oak age mango sour. Oh, man, that sounds like it'd be good. And here we go. You know,
I must not have had that on the menu because I definitely would have had that Kilt's Shredder Scotch
Aleady. Yep. I'd like to break into a whole big burrow that with this a web. Sweet and multi
with a warming alcoholic backbone, the smahogony ale is an excellent pairing to enhance the
savory character of your meal. Granny and caramel notes provide complexity that improves the glass
and beer is a warm that will appear to a wide range of palettes. I don't know, Scotch Ale,
really appeals to a wide range of palettes. I think it's more of a, you know,
acquired. I mean, I love it, but I don't know if it's for every, you know, I don't think it's for
the average bud drinker. Of course, like the average bud drinker is not going in this place.
Maybe for maybe for the pizza. I think I think they'd shoot you if you ordered a bud.
Ah, probably not. And I think if you go on Facebook, I should have been better prepared to go on
Facebook, but I've covered the beers that actually tasted. And, you know, so there was not
not a clinker among them. So, you know, if you find yourself in Wichita, get your tail to the
corner of 13th and Tyler. And that's sort of, that's sort of really north and pretty far west
in Wichita. If you had a two-hour layover, you might be able to make it there and back
at their cap or mid-continent rather. They're going to call, they're going to change the name,
aren't they? But for now, it's mid-continent. And most people say, why would I ever land in Kansas?
Okay. Well, fine. This is where I am. And 70-mile trip is about as good as I'm going to do to
to get to a good brew pub. So, well, that's been the rather long. Wow, 40, 48 minutes. Of course,
there's some pauses there. So, once I take them out. And I, I did real good with alms. I don't
think I'm going to have to edit this at all, except for, yeah, there's another, another,
uh, I feel like the night you say, neat, but, uh, and another one. See, I messed not my whole record
here. And I could just chop this off, but I'm not going to. You're just going to have to sit down
and listen to this mess. And so, I have to find a way to bring this to an end. But I hope you've
enjoyed an evening sitting here with me. 51-50. Uh, telling you about beers that you'll probably
never be in a position to try. But I'm sure wherever you are, you probably have access to several
great brew pubs. And tell you what, why don't you go to one? Try a few beers. Not so many,
you're going to get picked up on the way home, please. Bring some home and some growlers.
And record a show and tell us about them. We'd, I know, Ken would very much appreciate it.
So what I, so to Huka, so to all the rest of us here at Hacker Public Radio. So please,
go get your beer. Why are you listening to me? Why don't you, why aren't you in the car on the way
to get a beer right there? Well, of course, you could be listening on a portable player. So
that's it. Quit, you know, if you're listening on the computer, transfer this to your portable
player. Well, it's almost over anyway. Transfer the next one to your portable player. Jump up,
get in your car, go to, you know, go to a brew pub, get a growler. Don't drink the growler till you
get home. Don't drink it on the way home. Have you had nice couple beers with your meal while you're
there? You know, I haven't had a nice evening or, you know, even, I was there at lunchtime,
well, middle afternoon, but it was my lunch. Yeah, nice little lunch, a couple beers,
and I'm perfectly friends and, you know, you know, I'll have different beers and tell us all about
them. Great. So, you know, you'll have one trip to the brew pub. You'll just have several podcasts
because I'm sure you will get all your friends that you invite along with you. And they'll come,
if you pay, you know, each to, each to record their own podcast. See, that's, that's the way you get
podcasts for HPR. You, you get all your friends from work or your friend, friends, whatever,
and college friends, whatever, and say, look, I found this great brew pub. We're all going to go.
And I'm going to pay the bill. And the only thing you've got to do is promise to record a beer
review for Hacker Public Radio. Does that sound like a plan or what? Speaking of which,
it's, oh, yeah, it's, it's quarter 12. I'm going to quit dismiss. I'm going to sign off.
I have been 5150, your host. This has been episode two of 5150 Shades of Beer.
And we've been discussing the Wichita Brewing Company at 13th and Tyler in Wichita, Kansas.
And, you know, I may have to see, once I full examine this one, I'm, there's other brew pubs.
I'll have to figure out a way to make excuse to get to the rest of them.
So I have an assignment. You have an assignment. Buy beers for your friends and have them review
them for Hacker Public Radio. I shall see you next time.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonomicum computer club. And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution, share a light 3.0 license.
