Episode: 1755
Title: HPR1755: 52 - LibreOffice Impress - Moving Around
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1755/hpr1755.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 08:51:55

---

This is HPR episode 1755 entitled 52 Libri Office Impress, moving around and is part of the
series Libri Office. It is hosted by Ahaka and is about 14 minutes long. The summary is
introduction to the Impress application screen layout. This episode of HPR is brought to you by
An Honest Host.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's
HPR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honest Host.com
Hello this is Ahuka welcoming you to Hacker Public Radio and another exciting episode in our
Libri Office series focusing now on Libri Office Impress. Yeah I hope this is going to be impressive.
So what I want to do today is I want to talk about moving around in the program. Okay so when you
open up Libri Office Impress you have five main areas on the screen that you need to pay attention to.
First is the slides pane. This is a display of your slides in the order they will appear. By scrolling
up and down you can quickly go to a particular slide click on it and it will appear in the workspace.
You can also hide slides here so they don't appear in the presentation. Add delete and move slides
etc. So this is on the left hand side and it's just one one after another vertically
all of the slides. Then next to that is the workspace and this is where you work on each slide
individually to edit and add content. Then there is the sidebar. Now the sidebar has seven sections
and each section has an icon on the far right of the screen. What are the seven sections?
The first one is properties. This lets you choose in the various slide layouts available.
Number two, master pages. This lets you select a visual template for your presentation that
incorporates colors and graphics. Number three, custom animation. This controls the behavior of
elements within a slide and lets you animate them. Number four, slide transition. This sets how
slides transition from one side to the next. Number five, styles and formatting. As you might expect
this lets you apply styles to elements of the slide for a consistent look. Note that if like me you
have anchored your styles and formatting window as we have discussed previously it will already be
open and anchored to the left of the workspace. Number six, gallery. This lets you add other
objects to the slides as either copies or links. A copy is static while a link will update
the object if the original changes. Then number seven, the navigator. If you have marked in some way
important points in your presentation by naming key slides this can help you to quickly jump to those
spots. Note that when you select one of these seven icons in the sidebar a pane right next to it
will display the contents for that selection. So if you want to change the type of slide from the
standard bullet point slide to a side by side layout for instance you would first select properties
to bring up all of your slide options then click on the one you want to use. Similarly if you wanted
to apply a master page you would click that icon then make your selection. Navigator is the last
of the items you can select on the sidebar. If you have created a long presentation and have not done
anything to identify individual key slides you will bring up a list that says slide one, slide two,
slide three and so on which is not terribly helpful. You may not want to name each and every slide
though you could but it might make sense to name some key slides so you can jump to them quickly.
You can do this in the slide shorter discussed below.
Now the fourth major area on the page are the toolbars. These are mostly on the top of the screen
and they give you access to frequently used features. You can add or remove toolbars as noted
but note they're not all on the top. The drawing tool bar is usually located on the bottom of the screen
and finally on the bottom is the status bar which contains a number of useful items such as the
information area the cursor position the slide number and the zoom control.
So when you're first opening up Libra Office and press take a few minutes to take a look at each
of these areas click around see what happens but the workspace this is where you'll probably spend
most of your time since it is the main space for creating and editing slides whichever slide you
have selected in the slides pane will be in the workspace ready for you to edit or add content.
You have a number of ways to view and work with your slideshow here by selecting from the tabs across
the top. First is the normal view. This is the most often used option and it is where you add content
to slides and edit them individually. To add a slide to this area from the ones already created
either click on the slide in the slide pane or double click on the navigator. Among your options
here are adding text graphics and animation effects. To add a new slide click the slide button on top
and this if you move your mouse cursor over the icons these do have tool tips so you'll be able to
see that which one is for the new slide button. Now if you want to change the slide layout from the
default click the properties button on the far right in the sidebar then click on the layout you
want to use. Note that these layouts are only a starting point and you can modify them if they're
not exactly what you need however you cannot save a modified layout for future use.
Now the next view that you have in the workspace is the outline view. Now I'm going to cover that
more depth in the following tutorial but in brief this allows you to create a slide show by making
an outline. Note that you can switch back and forth between normal and outline anytime it suits you.
It is one presentation but you have two ways of looking at it.
Number three notes. This lets you add speaker notes to each slide which will not be displayed on
the projector but which you can see on your laptop. Using notes effectively is a very important
technique. Recall from our initial tutorial that a presentation slide deck should support what you
were saying but not take the place of it. This is a way you can get reminders of what you intend to
say when each slide comes up without actually putting it on the slide for everyone to see.
The next view we have here is handout. Often you want to have a printed handout to accompany
your presentation. This is where you can set up and format the handout. Note that this option works
with the properties button on the right hand sidebar so when you select handout make sure you
also select properties. This lets you specify how many slides will be on each printed page.
Add a header, footer, date and page number and whether or not to create a notes area for each slide.
I usually use the notes area option since my audience may want to take notes as I go through
the presentation and this makes it easy for them. Slide Sorter. This lets you drag and drop slides
to rearrange the order either individually or as a group but you can do more on this screen if you
want to. The key is to right click on a slide and you will get a menu of options.
First one is new slide which will add a new slide after the current one.
Second is duplicate slide which makes a duplicate and places it right after the currently selected
slide. You can then drag and drop to move the duplicate to another part of the presentation.
Delete slide and it's pretty self-explanatory. Rename the slide. I can be very helpful for using
the Navigator. Slide Layout lets you change the layout of the selected slide. Slide Transition.
This lets you set the transition either for one slide individually or for a group of slides if you
selected a multiple. Hide Slide. Any slide that is hidden will not show up on your laptop or on
the projected slide show but you will see it grade out on the Slide Sorter page. You can always
unhide the slides later by right clicking and the option will now read Show Slide.
Now that would probably be really handy if you had a long presentation and you didn't want to go
through all of it in a given situation. So you could hide the parts you didn't want to use
and still have the entire presentation there. So it's useful to know you can do that.
And finally you've got your cut copy paste stuff like that. These operate on slides so cut would
remove the slide and place it on the clipboard. Copy would leave it in place and also put a copy
on the clipboard and paste would insert a copy of the slide from the clipboard.
So now that you know how to work with the interface and get around our next tutorial we'll get
started with creating a presentation. So this is Ahuka signing off for Hacker Public Radio and
reminding you as always to support free software. Bye bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise stated. Today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
