Episode: 1017
Title: HPR1017: Phone hacking Samsung Admire
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1017/hpr1017.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 17:27:51

---


Hello, on this episode of Hacker Public Radio, I will talk about how I fixed my new-to-me-used
Samsung admirer by Drowningit.
That kind of claim needs a disclaimer, so here it is.
First of all, if you do try this at home, as I did, only do it after you have exhausted
all other options, just as I did, or perhaps you can think of some that I did not think of.
Anyway, to the story that tells the situation, I bought this phone.
I bought this phone for a drunk price, knowing that it had been dropped in the snow and had
unknown battery problems with it.
I feel like I need to back up and say that I have had a number of smartphones before.
There were none of them had Windows, iOS, or BlackBerry on them.
So I had this at my ear, and at first it was hard to power on.
It would not even power unless it was while charging, eventually that stopped with regular
charging in a new battery.
But other battery power issues remained, and new ones actually arose, like constantly
beeping and buzzing, like it does when you plug in the charger.
But this was random and almost constant.
The problem with snow or mud puddles, and particularly snowed by sidewalks, is that they have
unknown dirt metals, and especially with sidewalks, no salt.
So it needed to be rinsed safely, and likely not just a battery contacts.
An old-time unix cake from way back that I know locally told me about rinsing in distilled
water.
Now, I know a bit about what to do if your phone gets wet by accident, but to dunk it
on purpose, well, I told him that I would have to think about it.
And this person, and I, are really fairly close.
I know that he does not lie about stuff like that.
It was me that I was concerned about.
But he replied to me that he would buy the phone from me at five more dollars than what
I paid for it, and he would do it for himself, perv this advice.
OK, geek challenged take him, I can't pass that up.
And he knew it, so I got the distilled water, and I borrowed a hairdryer.
A hairdryer, you might be asking, I know I did.
But my friend told me that he thinks that the phone still being wet as part of the problem
he sees with the sealed container of rice idea.
So I was careful to set the dryer on the lowest heat level just as he said.
After what I call a long time, after the phone was no longer dripping wet, and I had
dried out the outside totally, I put it down and sealed the container of rice for about
a week and a half.
That was a long week and a half.
I had already grown used to having the phone.
Most people buy these in buyers, not no $400.
But most people buy $400 phones, and do not realize that they're hand-held computers.
Or if they do realize that, that does not mean much because all they ever do if a desktop
is Facebook and solitary.
Anyway, so I was dying in the waiting, but it worked, and I am recording this episode
of HPR on it now, and it does not beep and buzz like crazy.
The battery does not drain in 5 hours, but last as long as I might expect it to normally.
I do use Juice Defender.
That was no help at all before I dunked the phone.
Okay, that is this episode of HPR.
I hope it was entertaining and helps you as much as it did me, truly.
Find me on Google Plus by Sean Campbell and my friend by Daniel Newman.
Thank you very much.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, or Hacker Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound in the Infonomicom Computer
Club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are proudly sponsored by Lina Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinaPages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons, attribution,
share a line, free those own license.
