Episode: 1560
Title: HPR1560: The reiserfs File System
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1560/hpr1560.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 05:06:35

---

.
Okay, hi everyone. I'm hoping you're having a great day. Continuing my series of talks about
different file systems. Okay, today I want to talk about the RISER FS system. In 2001,
Hans RISER created the first journaling file system in Linux called RISER FS. The RISER FS
system only supports right back journaling mode, writing only the in node table data to the journal
file because it writes only the in node table to the journal. The RISER FS system is one of the
fastest journaling file systems in Linux. Two interesting features incorporated into RISER FS
are that you can resize an existing file system while it's still active and it uses a technique
called tailpacking which dusts data from one file into an empty space in a data block from another
file. The active file system resizing feature is great if you have to expand an already
created file system to accommodate more data. Now I haven't used RISER FS in a long time,
but it's important because a lot of the features that RISER that Mr. RISER did
or incorporated into XT4 and XT3 and XT4, I'm sorry, not XT3, and that this is a very fast,
that this is a super fast method for doing this. All right, hey, well this completes this part
of the file system installment. I hope you enjoyed it and as always you can reach me at JWP5
at hotmail.com. You'll have a great day. Bye now.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on day through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club.
HPR is funded by the Binary Revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are proudly sponsored by
LUNAR pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LUNAR pages.com for all your hosting
needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a life, lead us our lives please.
