Episode: 1730
Title: HPR1730: 5150 Shades of Beer 0005 River City Brewing Company Revisited
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1730/hpr1730.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 08:21:01

---

This is HPR episode 1,730 entitled 5,150 Shades of Beer 0,05 River City Brewing Company Revisited,
and is part of the series 5,150 Shades of Beer. It is hosted by 50 and 50 and is about 38 minutes long.
The summary is, 51 50 Revisits and Air Capital Group up to try some new flavors.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR-15. That's HPR-15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com.
Howdy folks, this is 51 50 for Hacker Public Radio and first topic I want to address is
a pressing one and that's the number of shows in the queue.
When I reserved this slot, this would have been a week ago, this would have been the last regular show in the queue without skips and for the better part of this week it stayed that way.
Now finally in the last couple of days, 4 out of the 5 slots for the week after are available and I have one question for you folks.
Where in the blue bloody blazes have you been? Record some shows. Get something in the queue.
In my case, I got a little scolding from Ken because he had a different idea.
I guess of how it worked and I did. I reserved a slot and of course then I thought there would be a big rush.
There has been last several times the queue has gotten this low and I want to get in on it.
Probably mainly is a prompt to myself because you probably wouldn't be hearing me today unless I'd reserved that slot and then I'd had pressure to actually sit down and record.
But I'm uploading this show on probably the last possible minute for the FTP server for Ken to get it out in time. Thank you Ken.
Ken, he said he was the mind that it was okay to record a show or to reserve a show before you'd actually recorded it.
If it was something time sensitive like the last show I did was announcement on Kansas Lennox Fest and I was looking at my time.
Oh, I better get something in the queue. But he said show about beers. You could do that any time.
But in my defense, if I didn't have this hard deadline with Kansas Lennox Fest coming up and the things I need to do,
you probably wouldn't have gotten this show until a little bit all the next week or later than that.
But having said that, I won't let it happen again. I will not reserve a slot unless they have an actual recording to go up.
And on this show, I thought I was going to have to re-record this because the trouble was I was recording this show about beer a week ago, more than a week ago.
And I filled up my hard drive space on the laptop sometime during the recording of the show.
And I met it saved the original recording, but I guess it depends on Dassy Roy the power of the laptop.
This is not quite as powerful with Shane as I was using for my audio recording before, even though it has a
same amount of memory for Giga Ram. But I do think that if you have a probable file, you guys, you've done
you've record shows and audacity. You have this thing. Looks like you're going fine, but you start doing
edits, cutting out your stuff like that. And then all of a sudden, audacity locks up solid.
And then you have to reboot and you're left for covering a corrupted file, even though the whole thing sounds good.
If you play it in audacity, the whole thing sounds just fine. But you do a couple more edits and audacity locks up solid.
You think, well, I'm going to have to start over from getting this. Nothing I can do with that.
But I did have the original recording and what I did is I just exported that as a Wav file, which should be relatively
lossless, technically lossless and huge format to save your file in. And then I took the Wav file and re-imported
an audacity and then saved that as a project. And that's what I'm working on. So if there's any weird
artifacts that are coming through, that's probably the fault of my handling the file that way. But
that at least saved me the time of re-recording the whole entire podcast. And I did cut out quite a bit.
I was enthusiastic. The night I recorded the podcast, I just received my Raspberry Pi model too.
And just a few days before, we did a lick's lug cast that included a berry boot.
If you want, if you all listen to it, go to linuxlugcast.com. I recommend the show highly.
But berry boot, it's not a distribution for the Raspberry Pi, but it's a way to install multiple
boot images on the same SD card. Or you could just have berry boot on the SD card and install the
images on a USB stick or I presume an external spinning drive would work just as well.
But I had to rather large 32 gig SD cards. So there is the option in there to install everything on
to the same boot card. And see, I didn't realize Nubes was pretty much the same thing. I always thought
that Nubes was a Raspberry Pi distribution for Nubes. So the main couple differences,
at least if the one posting on saw is correct. Now it does seem to be, though, I haven't taken
the SD card out and put it back in the laptop to look at it. But it seems that berry boot is
using the same partition for everything. And there was a poster who said here was complaining about
that berry boots also using the same kernel for all across all the distributions that you install.
And of course, if you're going to install, say, a bleeding edge distribution like arch
and a somewhat more conservative distribution like Debian or Rasbian, that's got to cause a problem.
And the poster said he had updated open a leg. And then now I'll hit all the other
distributions would not boot. So I'll play with this. I think it looks like to install arch.
I'm going to have to have Nubes because there's been some conflict between the Raspberry Pi
people and the guy who maintains the arch version of rather the arm version of arch
because he's put the file, the image into a compressed format and change the image file.
And so the arm installations and instructions that have been published are no longer accurate.
And apparently the maintainer isn't willing to update them. Something like,
at least that's a story from the Raspberry Pi people. So they've taken, actually,
taken arch off their downloads page, but they said, well, you can still install it from Nubes,
install Nubes and then install arch. So that's probably what I'm going to do on my old Raspberry
Pi Model B. I will set up as a server. And I'd like to set up as an arch server. So that's probably
installed Nubes so that I can install arch. And so sometime in the future you'll probably get from
me a HPR contrasting Nubes versus Arch. And the other difference, I guess, between Nubes and Nubes,
pretty much you get one bite at the apple. You install Nubes and you pick the distributions
that you want. And then that's set. You can't go back and add other distributions. You can't
subtract distributions. And Barry Boot is the opposite of that. You go right now. There are five,
I think, images. You have OpenOlec. You have an Android distribution. You have PIDOR,
which of course, for DOR, Raspbian, which is Debian. And Retro Pi, which of course is the
main console to play your old game ROMs. And you install Barry Boot first and then you boot
up in the Barry Boot. And then one at a time you select whichever of those five distributions that
you want to install. And it's all automatic. Really, really easy to do. So that's my initial impression
of Barry Boot. I haven't managed to break it yet by having one, the one kernel image across several
distributions be a problem. So when I know more and I said I didn't, at initial talking about a
lot of things I said were wrong. That's why I cut them out. And I'm about to catch up with my
own voice here. So I'm going to leave you to our regularly scheduled podcast.
This is 5150 Shades of Beer. Episode 5, I believe. And it's a return to the River City Brewing Company
and what you talk Kansas. And the great thing about Brew Pubs is they're always trying new beers
so the customer experience doesn't become as stale as a half finished can of Budweiser left out
overnight. This means that I can return to the same place and bring you a whole new vista of
flavors. Such was the case last Sunday when a social fair brought me within blocks of the River
City Brewing Company. And I had had the floor thought to bring my three growlers for refilling.
And by the time the meaning was over, it was time for a burger in a beer anyway. So let's discuss
the meal first. Having tried their pizza and amazing Cuban sandwiches on previous trips,
this time I went for a burger. From the River City menu, I'm included a link in the show notes,
though I, I, I admitted a lot of other links that I should have put in there like the address,
etc. But you know, from, from this menu link, you can extrapolate how to find anything,
how to find your way to the River City Brewing Company should you choose to do so.
But from the menu, I selected the Memphis burger and it was, it described as being topped with
sweet pepper bacon, cheddar cheese, crispy onion strings, and Chipotle barbecue sauce.
On top of that, the hamburger was grilled perfection. In my case, that being exceedingly rare.
Yeah, one of my dad's friends every time he saw me eating a steak or a burger, he always had to
comment, you know, I've seen a critter hoat worse than that than live. I was really impressed by these
onion strings. These are not the French fried onion rings you find topped your green beans on
Thanksgiving, but just the most delicate strings of onion imaginable battered and fried.
I wish I'd had the four thought to order extra barbecue sauce for my French fries,
which are hardy and sprinkled with fresh ground pepper. I never thought of putting pepper on my
fries before, but be sure to think of it in the future. To accompany my burger, I selected the
Breckenridge bourbon smoked imperial stout. It comes in at 9% alcohol by volume, so you don't
get as big a glass of that as you might have one of the other beers. So you're limited to a
11 ounce brandy snifter. Now, the thing about stouts, I said I don't like, I won't say don't like,
it's my preference not to have a high IPA, a bitter beer like a, I'm sorry, a high
IBU beer, international bitterness units. I mean, I always like to try a new beer, but really,
I prefer something not as bitter as an IPA, and whilst stouts tend to be little on the bitter side,
the flavors are blended so well that I usually don't notice it nearly as much as I do in an IPA,
which are usually just all about the bitter. Now, this beer, the barley, before fermentation,
the barley is smoked over hazelnuts, giving this beer its flavor and its name, and I've always
wanted to try a smoked stouts since I first heard Tracy Holt speak of them on the old
pod brewers podcast, but I don't think I'd want, I'd be one or, want to be restricted to a smoked
stout every day, but this, this was a great beer, great compliment to my beefy meal, and I,
I can't say enough good things about it. Okay, next onto my three growlers, and I'm going to
partake of the first one here. This is one of the most interesting and unusual beers that I've ever
had the pleasure to try. I wish I could give you first impressions on all these three beers, but
frankly, it's nearly weeks since I came home, and I just couldn't wait on you folks to try them.
It was bad enough waiting for them to chill overnight in the fridge.
The first beer is donut whole love affair number three pineapple wit. This is a wheat beer made
with actual pineapple donuts, and I've included a link rather long one to the Facebook image where
they were actually brewing this particular batch just a few days before I got there, and shows
a pile of donuts they actually grind up donuts and put them in the beer. And in the first taste
you encounter is tart pineapple on the tip of your tongue, and then as you swallow back it's joined
by a taste of powdered sugar on the back of your tongue as the beer washes towards the back of your
mouth. And that sugar taste will stay with you a long, long time. I mean, if you're just sitting there
between sips, you're going to taste that sugar the whole time. And not the whole effect is subtle
and wonderful, because the pineapple taste is not fruit juicy like a shandy, and the wheat
beer hovers in the background not enough to obscure the donut taste, but sort of blending
the pastry taste into the breadiness of the beer. Now one thing I will say, probably these
growlers, and I've been saving them, or saving the last part to I could do this podcast that may
be a little bit of mistake, because this donut whole beer is not as fresh as it was
a Monday evening. It's tasting more like a regular wheat beer, not as much of the
pineapple and sugar flavors. So it's kind of like eating crackers or something, you know, sometimes
or chips you need the first few, and it takes a while for the flavor to build up on your tongue, but
yet this I would have done a lot better finishing this fairly quickly, I think.
If that's a troll of a growler, probably should be consumed certainly within the first week,
but I don't know, I had no idea what to expect of this beer when I ordered it, but I'm pleased
that I did. It's not very powerful and alcohol, only 5.65% alcohol by volume, and obviously not
very bitter, 11 IBUs, and it's served at the pub, it's served in a full 16-ounce
wise glass. Okay, next. Okay, well I just had a full glass of the donut wet, but the rest of these,
I'm going to be pouring partial glasses here, so you don't have to wait for me to
finish the pot or finish a beer before I get on to the next one, and unfortunately again,
I do like fresh beer, it should be consumed though fairly quickly, and I've been buying lesser
beers to kind so I could kind of savor these, and to be honest, I might have savored a little too long,
so definitely I'll be finishing these up this weekend, but next we have the prize fighter
Red Ride, if you see in my show notes they have some very interesting ideas about spelling,
and the one thing I say, the main thing I say about this beer, this has got to be the smoothest
and richest ride beer I've ever tasted, I mean it's almost creamy in taste and mouthfeel,
and I've always been a big fan of ride beers, at least since I've heard the first one I tried,
but like ride whiskey, it's a little bit of an acquired taste, I mean,
rides a little more, obviously a little more naturally bitter than wheat would be, so a lot of
the bitterness in this in this beer is just because it's a ride beer, not because of a, I think of a
lot of additional hops, but a lot of people are scared away by beers with a lot of flavor,
I mean if you're a bud drinker, this is probably, those might be for you, I mean if you're going to
try a ride beer, this is the one to try, because man this goes down smooth, but a lot of people
are used to bourbon are going to find ride whiskey a little harsh, so in kind people are used to a
wheat beer, maybe a little off put by a ride, but oh man this, this, this, this is just wonderful,
it's not, I mean it's not real bitter, well it says 55 I be used, but you don't really taste it
like that, and court description on the menu is Carmel Maltz, a copious amount of ride definitely,
spicy, floral, earthy, and ready to smack you in the kisser, that's coming from the prize fighter,
not description, definitely taste the Carmel, spicy yes, I, yeah I guess you could, I can see the
floral description, and earthy, so probably not a beer for everyone, definitely a beer for me,
again this is not real high in alcohol, 5.6 alcohol by volume, and they give you a full,
give it to you in a full 16 ounce nonic, just finishing the last part of the ride, so we can come
to our final beer, it's, yeah that sound was me picking the grower up off the desk here, I got
them all out, before we started, the sound is me pouring, well shoot, I'm going to pour a full glass
because this is the last one, this is pretty much screwing the lid back on, it's sitting the grower
down, okay, and if I'm pronouncing this right, because right tells me I'm spelling it wrong,
but the same way it is in the menu, it's the buffet, bourbon, baltic, purr, and there are a couple,
there were two bourbon, burrow-aged purrers on the menu, and I asked my barman there, the difference,
and he says the baltic is a little sweeter, and I, you know, I certainly taste that, I mean no,
it's not terribly sweet, certainly not sicking, sicking, not surface sweet, certainly,
just a little bit sweet, and as far as bourbon-barrelled aged beers, I've never been a fan of these
woody Tennessee beers, and of course what 5150 meant to say here folks is he's never been a fan
of woody Tennessee whiskey, but I think the bourbon-barrelled aged beers sort of round out the other
flavors in the beer, and compliments the roasted moths and the hops, it has almost a slightly
citrusly taste, and a little sweet, and when you're pouring them from these growlers, even though
well, the doughnut beer, it actually had some pressure in the container where I opened it,
but the rest of them, you don't get the head really, and you bring it home in the growler,
and that, because obviously it's not a pressurized container, or it's once been pre-opened,
so therefore I don't think you get all the aromas that you would normally associate with the beer,
so all three of these, perhaps not quite as good as they were nearly a week ago when I first tried
them, so it's still better than anything I've gotten or refrigerated in a bottle or a can.
This is a purr, which means the flavors probably not quite as strong as a stout,
the name purr, I think we've discussed this, of course this is an ale, and the name derives from
back in England, this was beer brewed as part of a purr sour, in a purr, not purr'd like somebody,
you would see it a hotel or a railroad station or whatever that would carry your back, so that's
part of it, purrers were actually these guys who would carry stuff around the city on their backs,
you know, you've seen all these old movies, you know, the guy stooped over walking along with this
big old bundle on his back, you know, you always have that in the 1800s scenes or whatever from,
in an old movie on a street scene, that's what they mean by a purr,
and like we've talked about the Saeson, you know, that was part of the, actually part of the
expected farm worker salary that have two or three beers in the afternoon as they work, well it's
the same thing with the porter, so they were expected that during the days or, you know, even evenings,
or nights, you know, these guys worked all kinds times of the day, that they would get served
to her three beers during their shift, and this is the type of beer that came to be favored for them,
so there's definitely a strong ale, but not, not typically strong as a stout,
only strong and flavoring, not necessarily strong, in alcohol content, but all of the three
beers I brought help, this is definitely the strongest in alcohol content, weighing in at 7.2%
by volume, 47 IBU, so it's bitter, not as bitter as a general IPA, like I said, you don't notice the
bitterness in an ale like a porter or stout like you do in an IPA, because the IPAs are all
about being bitter, some of them, in my opinion, to their decrement for being about nothing else but
being bitter, now, who was somebody? One of my friends were discussing this, oh yeah, this is on
this is on the HPR Booker review, I can't remember which one of the guys, but they're all about that,
they want this, my hops can beat up your hops at nothing else, so those are interesting beers to try,
but I would not be wanting to live on them, so this is as slightly elevated alcohol content,
if you were to purchase this at the bar as a glass, you'd only get 13 ounces in a tulip glass,
I said I may be a little bit of a cheerleader, but I've never brought a beer home from one of these
brew hubs that I didn't like, and I haven't found any that weren't substantially better than what I've
been able to buy in a store, now, I made a mistake of not taking a beer menu home with me for
documentation, because I figured, well, I'll get it online, but at least at River City,
they're always trying experimenting with new things, it's such a great way that they don't even
put their beer menu online anymore, apparently, so I want to give props to Chris Arnold
from the River City Brewing Company, because I got homes of, oh man, I don't remember the full names
of these beers, you know, especially prize fighter, whatever, you know, cutesy names, much less
descriptions, so I went on the messaging page of their sight, and said can you help me out,
and send me a scan of the beer menu that you were using Sunday night, and Chris replying, and
scanned it to a PDF and sent it to me, and I thought it was four review, also told us four positive
reviews, but I said, I've never had a bad beer from this place yet, and he responded within
under 24 hours, and it was great, and so extra credit to River City Brewing Company for helping me out,
and I don't think they would mind if I touched the PDF, with the menu from the other night,
the beer menu, as part of my show notes, the restaurant menu, where you can see all the
electrical items that they have to eat, now that's online, and you find that at www.rivercitybrewingco.com,
so I'm not going to go through everything in the menu I will, I will leave salivating over
the beer menu to you dear listeners, as an exercise, but there are two in particular I'm sorry to have
missed, the sticky peat plums say so, and I won't try that, but before though, I think it was
always the raisin beer that I was missing out on, I mean every time you go there and it's like,
yes, for the raisin were no, we're out, sold out early today, and apparently the plums the same
thing, you know, I asked, do you have the plums when they said no, we sold out yesterday afternoon,
so sometime I need to get in there and get one of those, because they just sound so great,
and then the other one on the menu that I missed was Emerald City Stout, I'm not sure if I did
this the last time, I don't think I brought you that one, but it's described as a chocolatey
and coffee tasting stout, and guys, you know me, you know, I can't pass by, a chocolatey beer,
so, but man, it only has so many growlers, so maybe next time, I'm maybe getting up there,
because the, like I said, I was up there because of a social engagement that had been set up
some of my old friends, and we're talking about getting into this once a month, so, hey, you may
be seeing more often reviews, more than you probably care to listen to of the air capital
brew pubs. Next topic, I'm going next weekend, I'm going to be, well, I guess, by the time this
airs, it will be the, the should air the Monday after the weekend that I go to Candice Linux Fest,
and I just say Linux Fest, I forget, I forgot Candice in the show notes. See folks, I,
what, what happened here is I wonder reserve my time, and I wasn't thinking I should have,
I, I need to have my show notes prepared. Well, I could have left the page open, I guess,
once I confirmed, so there's a few typos I've mentioned, I've, I've seen reading back through,
even though I did it in the word process, or everything spelled right, but not everything,
necessarily makes good sense in, or for syntax, looking back through it, I should have read through
it before I committed, so, and so I don't have any good way of adding to my show notes without
making Ken Fallon tear his hair out, so I'm not even going to try. But, by the time you hear this,
I will just be returning from Candice Linux Fest, and that's www.CandiceLinuxFest.us, and
I apologize you guys have been probably been tired about hearing me talk about it, especially me talking.
Well, this is the first time I've actually, on air on HPR, used the correct URL, I've been telling
everybody.org, but it's .us, and just up the street from the Lawrence Public Library, where we'll
be holding the Linux Fest, is the Free State Brewery. Unlike these other two Candice Brewer pubs,
I've told you about the Free State Brewery actually sells bottled beer in the local liquor stores here,
but I did call them, so I said, am I going to just be getting the beers that I've already had from
liquor stores? Oh, no, no, we have all kinds of other things, and Augusta didn't, I didn't include
the link either, but you can probably look up Free State Brewery, you guys can use Google.
So, I will be talking, hopefully, well, not hopefully, certainly, I will be able, in a couple
weeks, come back to you with the delicious beers from Free State Brewery, that you would not find
in your local package liquor store. Unfortunately, when I call them the other day, they said, no,
we can't refill other brew pubs, growlers, you've got to buy your growlers here. So, Free State,
you're going to lose a couple of points on that, I'm not going to lie, on the upside, I probably
would have bought at least one growler anyway, you know, just to get the logo, because they got a
cool logo. Not anything against what you're talking about in a brewing company, or
River City Brewing Company, probably when you come into my new house, I'll have a whole shelf,
just display growlers. So, I would have got a growler from them anyway, but I'm going to tell them,
frankly, you know, you would make a bigger sale on beer, had you not have this policy of not
refilling other pubs, growlers. Well, I think I've bow-guarded your folks times for quite long
enough. As always, I've been 5150, and I'll catch you folks on the flip side.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Implanamican Computer Club, and it's part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLive, 3.0 license.
