Episode: 1539
Title: HPR1539: An Open Source News Break from Opensource.com
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1539/hpr1539.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 04:47:27

---

music
Hello hacker public radio, this is semiotic robotic with an open source news break from
opensource.com.
Here are a few of the open source stories our community has been discussing lately.
We recently published an insightful explanation of Devcoin, the new cryptocurrency specifically
designed to support open source development.
Writer Dean Walsh calls Devcoin, which is a fork of Bitcoin, an ethical cryptocurrency.
Because 90% of Devcoin's mind goes straight into the digital wallets of open source software
and creative commons media producers.
Walsh explains that Devcoin can help fund bounty programs that fuel open source and open
cultural development.
Also on opensource.com, community moderator Joshua Holm tells us about open source projects
that allow scholars to work with Anglo-Saxon source materials.
From textbooks and dictionaries to digitized manuscripts, he writes, these projects make
it possible to learn old English and work with some of the original source material anywhere
in the world, with nothing more than an internet connection and a web browser.
Holm then provides an overview of these open source tools, like the free electronic version
of Peter S. Baker's book Introduction to Old English and several digitized old English
dictionaries.
Holm also offers a link to the British Library's digitized copy of Beowulf and its original
native old English, so you can try your hand at reading this classic tale the way it
originally appeared.
And finally, in government news, opensource.com community manager Jason Hibbets brings
us an exclusive interview with Lee Heyman, director of new media technologies at the executive
office of the president in the United States of America.
Heyman discusses his early work as a systems administrator, hired to work on the campaign
team for a senator named Barack Obama, and chronicles the path that led to his working
for the United States government.
Heyman also discusses the complexities involved in opening the White House GitHub page, the White
House's recent sponsorship of hackathons and the infamous Death Star petition that
gains so much traction on the government's We The People Petition site.
Heyman remembers the day the petition officially garnered a response from the White House,
saying, quote, the day we published the response, January 12, 2013, was the White House's
third busiest day on record, and the response itself remains one of the busier pages on
our site, end quote.
That's all for today's open source news break from opensource.com.
You'll find links to the stories I've discussed in the show notes for this episode.
And as always, you'll find even more open source stories at opensource.com.
For up to the minute open source news, follow us on Facebook or Twitter at opensourceway.
Until next time, this is semiotic robotic, wishing you peace, love, and open source.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicum Computer
Club.
Hacker Public Radio is founded by the Binary Revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are proudly sponsored by Linner Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinnerPages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons, attribution,
share a life, free those own license.
