Episode: 1637
Title: HPR1637: Communities Are Made of People
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1637/hpr1637.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 06:12:00

---

It's June 11th of November 2014, this in HBR episode 1637 entitled Communities Are Made
On People.
It is hosted by 5150 and is about 47 minutes long.
Feedback can be sent to 5050 at linuxpacement.com or by leaving a comment on this episode.
The summary is like a bird, Facebook, friends having you back.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Howdy folks, this is 5150 for Hacker Public Radio and I've chosen my topic for this
episode, Communities Are Made Of People.
Perhaps even profound statement, I want to digress.
I usually go off and digress at the end of the episode or maybe in the middle or something
like that.
Well, you guys have heard now I'm always digressing and coming back but I usually save the
weird stuff for the end but I was just editing my last submission.
I think it will be HBR1630, the second in my beer series, 5150 Shades of Beer.
And I know some, I said in that one because the way audacity seems to be working on this
computer, I'm not going to go back and edit, you know, change things, try to insert stuff.
So this is the best I can do as far as correcting things because I made some rather glaring
mistakes.
First off, the fire, and we're going to talk about the fire some this episode.
That was the last weekend in July, not the last weekend in June.
They both start with J. It's practically the same thing.
Yeah.
No, I said it twice even.
Okay.
And then I said, I was going to tell you this funny story and I never did the punch line.
You know, you may have thought the punch line was that I had no radical disfigurement in
my face as funny as that is.
But no, let me set up this joke again or experience, I guess.
I said, okay, the first three, four weeks after the fire, you know, I couldn't hardly buckle
my pants or, you know, or do a belt because my thumbs, you know, were incredibly sore.
So I got some shorts from Walmart and some suspenders to hold them up and, you know, and
at least a couple pairs of white polo shirts to go with other polo shirts, but a couple
of them are white and they're all polo shirts go with it.
And then I had this white goop on my face that some people might have thought was makeup,
you know, burn cream.
And I told a couple of my friends, you know, my brothers and only friends that had somebody
had just tossed me a walking stick and a bowler.
I could have auditioned for the road company of a clockwork orange.
That's the joke.
Couple of people thought about it, thought it was funny, you take an hour and think about
I bet you think it was funny.
I should have included, I should have got a picture, the picture would have made the
joke, but I didn't, you know, because it was like, I had this stuff on my face and
then every time I answered a phone call, my cell phone got greasy that I had to go clean
it off, you know, it's, it's, oh, it's let rather gallows humor, you know, last weekend
at the party, which is outside the beer fest, you know, we had a couple, you know, bonfires
go in control of bonfires, you know, learn fire pits, not bonfires, fire pits, oh, my
friend, you know, one was just this deal thinking they threw wood in, you know, out in
the middle of the art, but the other one, you know, back in his deck, well, not the deck
because it's, it's off on the, in the, in the stone part, yeah, he's got a wood part
of the deck and he's got stone and the, and the, the, you know, swimming pool just covered
the stone, you know, it's down the stone part, and I don't know, maybe, maybe when
want me to give him this way, but it was cool, you know, he's got like this thingy invented
words, got this big rock, like a big granite thing in the middle and it's drilled so water
comes out of it all the time and then it's got a great around it and rocks hiding, you
know, little stones hiding the great and he's got propane jets and he can turn on, so it's
like this fire coming up around with this, you know, big rock that's got water coming
out of it in the center, that, you know, that was, that was one of the, you know, he, he,
he's really artistic that way, Eric and, yeah, now he's going to be mad because everybody's
going to have one, but no, you know, it was cool and so some of us were sitting around
that one and some of us were sitting around the, you know, the wood fire pit and we go
back and forth, we tell the stories and all that, but a few people had imbibed a little,
as you might imagine, some of us were a little close to firing, you know, you know, I was,
I was making little galas, you were drinking, you know, watch out because being on fire
is not as much fun as it sounds, okay, those, and there was another one that I did in the
last episode I posted the time, it wasn't a showstopper as much as the, as those other two.
Well, I listened that episode again when it's aired, I'll find it again, maybe out on
a future episode, I'll say, yeah, this is that other thing that I screwed up and I want
to make myself clear on. So that's that's that. Oh, man, on the beer. I don't know if I'm
going to be doing any more beer podcasts because I told you I was not going to review the
beers we had at the, at the October fest that my friend threw, and I wasn't going to review
the ones that I brought home with me, you know, Lurses and Ram, this is one I missed. It is
New Holland Brewing Company, and I assume this is not the new hole that makes the hay balers
that I'm familiar with. It is Dragon's Milk, Bourbon Barrel Stout, high gravity series,
and high gravity means lots of alcohol. This is 11 point beer. This is some killer beer.
This will knock you all around the room. Unfortunately, I only had the one in my adventures in
Wichita. I brought home some new Holland, but it was their poet. It's not bad. It's not bad at all,
but it all meant that this, this is like, stop your search. This is now my favorite beer of all
time. I did not say that lightly, lightly, lightly. Do not say that lightly because my favorite
one is once in a longer brood in this country, Mackerson, triple stout. It was another milk stout.
Also made, well, this one I don't know if it's made with cocoa, but the Mackerson's made with
moths from cocoa. Oh my goodness, I love that beer. It was not successful, so
they're not importing it, but they were, you know, somebody had a license to
brood on this side of the pond, and one of the possessions I lost in my fire was a little
Mackerson sign that would normally sit like on the bar, just a little, you know, about six inches long,
not a big beer sign. I had to hang it over a mirror, but man, you know, let me read you the
description. Roasting malt character, and you know, I love malt. Inner mingle with deep
vanilla notes, notes, no tones, tones, all dancing in an oak bath, parings red beet, smoked
foods, psalmock, rich cheese, and, well, this one I agree with, dark chocolate. Man, yeah,
this, you know, I say parent with anything, you know, you have this beer, you don't need to eat
nothing. So this is New Holland Dragon's milk. Man, if I cannot convince my buddy Danny to carry
this, I may just have to drive to Wichita and load up the dang van on this. Man, I can't believe
I missed this. This must be something they didn't carry. Those couple places I went. I said, I
have had poets in this company. It was, it was good. It wasn't, you know, it wasn't a show stopping
the beer. It wasn't bad, but man, this, this, you know, it's like, I'm sorry folks, but this is
like looking no farther. And if you want to know if to take my recommendation on the beer reviews,
you know, get you some of the New Holland Dragon's milk, and if you hate it,
then turn everything I say on my beer reviews 180 degrees. And you'll probably, you know,
you probably do pretty good with those. Okay, what, I guess let's get to the topic.
I've made my views on Facebook, you know, known for quite some time. I'm not a big Facebook fan.
And maybe I had a mischaracterization of exactly what it was, but, you know, my, my impression
was a Facebook was people posting pictures of their baby spitting up, you know, or something,
you know, something like, why, why do I want to know about your, you know, even if I know your
family, why do I want to know about your family in that much detail? You know, can't you just
keep that stuff away from me and to yourself? And, you know, but I felt obligated.
I don't want to make anybody feel guilty, but I mean, you know, I had the fire. And, you know,
the second day, first full day, I guess, but you know, I was, you know, I was in the one day.
No, maybe this is the first day because it's only really two days I was in the hospital.
Uh, but towards the end of that first day, I don't think I'd have to lunch. You know, here,
standing in my room and, you know, I just seen them a few months before through union,
but took a second as my friends got from grade school and high school. We were like, you know,
it's separable in grade school, you know, for, you know, high schools, we weren't as close,
but, you know, man, I got every second together. I seem like in grade school. And, you know, and,
you know, here was my room, you know, and, you know, asked me what I need. Could he, you know,
could he go to the store, get me anything? And I've relayed this on other podcasts not here
on HPR yet, but I mean, I was kind of a spot in the hospital that they took me to. For one
thing, they wouldn't let me make long distance calls out. And that may, well, that's just hospital
policy. You make local calls, but you can't make long distance calls. Well, of course, I'm 70 miles
away from my family, my father, my, well, my father's in no position. He can't come get me, he can't
drive. Uh, even if they'd let him out, you know, he was in the hospital too, though, with nothing
serious. I mean, nothing to do with the fire. I've said that before, but maybe not on this, uh,
uh, in this podcast, you know, on this channel on HPR, you know, they had chronic problems with,
you know, stuff on his backside. So they kept him, you know, because he's just sitting in one
position all the time or used to. I think we've solved that, but, uh, uh, so, you know, that,
that was enough excuse to get him admitted to the hospital. Like I said, I think that I want to
thank some folks because in the medical community, because I'm, I'm not sure. If that, if that was
really something that are, you know, obviously they knew I was in a hospital someplace else and
had no means to take care of them. We had no home then at that time. Somebody may, I guess,
I don't know if they made a decision. Okay, let's admit him, you know, and we, you know, we solve that
and then, you know, once he's been to the hospital, uh, uh, every time he's been to the hospital,
since he's been on Medicare, then he's, uh, automatically been admitted to the recovery center
after because they figured, well, you've lost, uh, muscle, you know, you've been laying in a bed
for days. So you need physical therapy to, uh, get you back to where you were. So, you know,
I'm glad somebody did that. I don't know if it was, uh, you know, made that decision for us.
But, you know, he wasn't where he could get phone calls and, you know, and I lost my cell phone.
So I had nobody, uh, uh, you know, in the fire, it was in the house. So I had nobody's number.
So, you know, mobile number, home number, whatever. So, you know, but the, uh,
social services fellow, he came in. Oh, that's something I need to remember. I keep forgetting that.
I hope I still have the guy's thing because I keep meaning to email the guy's boss and
tell him how helpful he was and that that shows how, you know, uh, uh, uh, grateful I am and I,
I meant when I got out to like sin flowers, the nurses and the burn unit, I should still do that.
But, uh, show some sort of gratitude. But, uh, yeah, but,
now I, I'm being able to see people to try to look up and contact and have them, you know, call me,
because I can't call them. And of course, you know, maybe, maybe something got lost in the translation.
Because the next day I got two or three messages, so and so called, call them back.
You know, no, that I couldn't do that because they won't let me make a long distance calls.
So then, you know, first day of hope, uh, Scott shows up. This is looking to go to the store,
can we get you clothes? You know, because what clothes I had were, were, you know, they took
going through them away. They were that bad. Uh, sweatpants and a t-shirt, you know, is what I got
out of the house in. And, uh, dad was a much better. But, uh, so, you know, he got me stuff and,
you know, he actually drove me home when they, when they, uh, released me. Uh, so, you know,
it, you know, that was fortunate. So I didn't have to, anybody have to come back from Pratt and get me.
So, I think he's going, maybe he was going that way. I mean, yeah, I guess it doesn't make
that much difference if you go from, uh, go from Pratt to Wichita or Wichita to Pratt and Mac. It's the
same, same trip. But, uh, yeah, and he and his wife were, were, were, uh, very helpful. They came
out the next week and actually dropped off some stuff for me and asked, again, if it was anything
what I needed. And then, you know, the next day, a couple of my, the second full day, a couple of
my attorney brothers showed up. But, you know, again, get, took, took me a second. Um, it's like,
oh my god, it's Dow. You know, I'm seeing Dow and they're, you know, about 30 years, 20 years.
Well, we hung out together some after college, but yeah, it's, it's got to be 20 years.
You know, and we've been talking each other on Facebook some. And, and then my other friend, uh,
from college, Eric and Eric, you know, Eric's the guy, I mentioned Eric. He's the guy
last weekend. I went to his house and, and, uh, for the beer fest, you know, it was, you know,
that was great. It was really nice to him and her name, uh, do I also knew in college. He was
his girlfriend in college. So, uh, you know, I knew, knew the both of them. And, you know, so it's like,
I got all this help and all this happened because of, uh, you know, one, uh, one of my high school
classmates in town also happens to be the cousin of one of my fraternity brothers and put it on
Facebook that, uh, and tied it to, uh, my, uh, Pratt High School class reunion page that, you
know, Don's in the hospital. He's in trouble. You need stuff. He needs help. And so the, the war got
around to both my, uh, you know, my high school and grade school friends and, uh, my, uh, my
college friends, my fraternity brothers. So, you know, I, I kind of felt like even though I have
this huge, huge and still huge amount of animosity towards Facebook and Zuckerberg and all associated,
you know, it seemed to me to be rather selfish to maintain this, uh, no Facebook policy.
Uh, and let me explain that, you know, it's kind of sound elitist, especially for me because I'm
no big, uh, web developer, you know, my, my web skills are, you know, are limited to some of the, uh,
Jewish, uh, Jewish, I don't mean, I didn't mean to say that gooey designs, you know, goo, or, or, or
gooey, uh, development programs. And I have no skills with anything in the background on web
that's designed like CSS or Java or Ruby or anything like that. In fact, uh, I was thinking about
when I was saying on this podcast, I mean, I was, I was, that would be a great series. And I mean,
actually, that could be a separate channel from HBR, you know, uh, uh, it, it, if somebody's out there,
if you could do like a, so you want to be a web developer series, you know, start with CSS and,
and, uh, build up to some of the application languages and all, and all that. Of course,
trouble for that is you got to be sitting there to compute and follow that, uh, you know, when Chad used to
do is, the, the dribble stuff, you know, it was like, man, that's fascinating, but I'm never gonna
learn anything from that. And, you know, I'm listening to it riding around on a tractor or whatever.
I have got to be setting at a computer with, uh, dribble up and running to, uh, learn anything from
that. And it's, you know, when, uh, claw two is like, uh, uh, uh, uh, his own podcast. He's been doing
some stuff in, uh,
Python, you know, and it's like, he didn't are simply, you know, uh, I'm following a lot of it,
but yeah, it's, it, I'm not going to retain it until I go back and, uh, sit down with,
you know, and type it into, uh, type it into an editor where I can understand what I'm doing. So,
uh, but yeah, enough for me telling people what podcast they ought to be doing, but, um, I,
like, I said, it's not, you know, I don't know all that stuff. I'm hypocritical because my whole
kick against Facebook was, you know, it was, it, it was, uh,
you know, giving people who had no web development skills, a platform on line and they were using,
you know, they weren't using it for anything. I thought they were using it to post pictures of
you know, again, here, look, look what my kid did today. And, you know, now that I'm on it,
it's not all that. And of course, I, I immediately started following some of my, uh, tech friends
from podcasting. See, that was another thing that I thought was incredible because, you know,
I didn't have, you may have heard me talk, uh, I didn't really have, uh, internet in the house for
a while as my own father would just want to sit in the laptop in the right place. Uh, you know,
the little house that we on, on the same property where the big house burned and, you know, we,
we, uh, rent small house to another fraternity brother of mine. And he was nice enough to let me stay
with him while that was in the hospital or not hospital with hospital, then their recovery center.
You know, I've been there, sleeping on his couch until the last couple weeks,
because they finally said, well, you know, they're telling me when I need to make arrangements to
bring dad home, you know, right now we're in the, the rental property that, that, uh, uh, I,
I arranged for, uh, for the time being until we get a new house built. If you've seen my pictures
on Facebook, on Facebook, they're in, and G plus, you know, I've, I've shown pictures of
where we've staked out the house to be built into the side of the hill above our lake,
up in the pastures. It's not, it's not very far from where my great-grandparents
uh, built the sod house when they originally homesteaded, uh, that property, you know, my, uh,
yeah, where we're, where my dad's always lived, is actually like the third homestead almost, uh,
that my family's had since they came to Kansas in 1879, all within a few miles of each other, of
course. But, uh, here I am digressing again, you know, but, you know, there's a lot more
saying, oh, I was going to talk about why the first people I added to follow, was it falling on
Facebook or liking on Facebook or at, you know, added the friend request, uh, are, you know,
are folks see, I, I, I was doing it on my phone, you know, I did Facebook on my phone originally,
and of course, I set up the phone to, to have the, uh, the app store, the play store,
you know, I had to put, I had to put in my, uh, Google account, and my Google account as me,
the name and so on my birth certificate, you see, when, when, um, hardly came through, I changed
all my account, uh, passwords, and I put them in a file, because I didn't, you know, that,
I'd had to, these passwords for years and known them, but new passwords, I put them in a
file and, uh, copied the file to my server, and so I got the phone and, you know, put, put in the,
Google account that's me, is the name and so on my birth certificate, and, you know, the password
didn't work, so I screwed that up somehow. So, and knowing I didn't have, you know, I didn't have
a whole lot of time to mess with things, so I put in, instead, uh, the 5150 Linux basement,
uh, Google account, and then I tied that to my PayPal, you know, under, under my actual name,
so I guess NSA knows exactly who I am, if they didn't know before, but, uh, and then so I,
did I, you know, went to the Facebook app and, uh, created myself a presence on Facebook, and
all of a sudden, you know, uh, uh, since it was tied to my 5250 account, you know, all of a sudden,
you know, I saw all my podcasting friends come up and say, well, you know this person, you know,
do a friend request, and so I started, click, click, click, and after about 20 or 30, I think,
wait a minute, they don't know me by the name I'm using under his Facebook,
they have no idea who this person is, wants to friend them, and except for two or three,
TJ knows, Justin knows, uh, just a few of those, and more that didn't know, no now,
they figured it out, I'm sure, you know, they only have so many friends that
caught themselves on fire, uh, so, and for the rest, you know, almost everybody, and I think maybe
even everybody who I, you know, clicked on, did a friend request that for, you know, that first day,
and I haven't got around anybody, because I got to that point that, oh, I meant they don't know who I am,
uh, so the rest of you don't feel cited in the podcasting community, it's just that I stopped
to that point, well, wait a minute, um, but, uh, you know, just about everybody refrended me
on that, so, you know, I have to say, you know, I can't really, you know,
can't I go in, uh, and say, Facebook's just, this, this bad, evil, dark place,
like I always thought it was, because immediately, everybody wanted to be my friend, and then, of course,
I start putting in people, you know, local friends, uh, and, you know, that filled out pretty quick,
you know, and once you start putting in some of your college and high school friends and whatever,
then you see links to everybody else, and so click it, click it, click it, click it, and then
everybody friends you back, and, you know, and I've had this huge, huge support community,
you know, I want, I want, I want to pick some people out, my friend Sue from high schools,
that's our in Walmart, this, this was like the second day I was home. Well, yeah, the,
the first day, I, I, I've mentioned this, you know, that, that they had me come into the hospital,
get my, the ones on my arms redressed, you know, because I was blistered second degree, all up and
down, both arms, and first degree on my face. So, uh, you know, in, in, in the, in the hospital, they
said, yeah, you got to, you really got to clean that really, really hard before you go into the
hospital. And since I was driving, well, the first, the first day, Scott, when he drove me home,
uh, I'd already called ahead, you know, and, you know, my, keys for all the vehicles,
burned up in the fire too. Yeah, I didn't have anything I could drive. And, uh, so one of my friends,
Darren, in his family, got it, you know, purchased a new key for dead shibby transport van, and then,
I guess that they had to drag yet with a record into, uh, the shibby dealership, because they
couldn't just come out and, uh, cut a new key or whatever. It's all electronic and all that.
And so, you know, I range for that to get done. And, uh, you know, when, and, well, I was kind of
surprised to me when they released me from the hospital. I thought, I think that had to do something
I didn't have with me a insurance card. And, uh, so they had me down in the hospital with,
you know, a self-pay or whatever. So they get him out of here before he costs us too much money,
because he's a bum. No, I have insurance. You know, and, and, you know, that, you know, I told him
that kind of, in fact, it wasn't too hard to get it, you know, as well. You know, do you need
my social security number to get the insurance, you know, put, no, they just need my name and then
they had the insurance, but that didn't get through to the business office. I was trying to make
multiple calls. Business office wouldn't call me back. So I'm going to be checking out of here,
and I want to make sure you guys know what my insurance information is for I do. And the social
workers working on that. And, uh, you know, I think that that that finally got through to him,
but the decisions already been made to kick him out of here after two days, you know,
because some people said, oh, you're going to be in here two weeks. And so I'm saying, it's going to,
you know, it's going to be three or four days. So, you know, it kind of shocked me. Got up that
second day. Oh, can you get a ride home? You're leaving. You know, and, and Scott showed back up,
so I said, you Scott, can you do me solid and drive me home to Pratt? And, uh, he's, oh, yeah,
sure. You know, I'm among all the other stuff that you already did. And, uh, that was taking care.
Way home, you know, I called, I called the bank, because we're, we're going past the bank.
Well, shout out to them, cutting him first to national. I don't think we're going to get there
before you close. And so we'll, you know, we'll wait around a little bit, you know,
when you're going to be there, it is about 30 minutes after the normal closing. No, no problem.
And they had counter checks, uh, waiting for me, plus some cash.
And, well, you know, I asked you to get, you know, take 500 cash out and have it ready for me,
so that they did that. I should have got more because, well, I got some clothes, you know,
for me and for dad and all that one I got when I got home. And so I need a, you know,
need a phone too. I already got the clothes and, uh, and it's kind of still turning around this.
No, no, you dropped me off at the, uh, at the Shiverlay dealership in Pratt and they couldn't
get the van done in a day. So, you know, they said, hey, here's the keys to a, you know, to the
loner. And of course, the loner air conditioner didn't work for, and it was hot. But, you know,
that's, that's the loners. No piece of junk there. It's not worth fixing. So that's, that's the
loner for everybody. So I don't complain about that too much. I mean, that's expected to put gas
in it because it's, you know, trying to back in four to ten miles, uh, but other than that. So, uh,
you know, and then the van ran the next day. But, uh,
Sue, Sue, I was talking about what Sue helped me out with and, and, and then I went off at a
whole tangent. Sorry. But this was, you know, this was the second day I'd been home. And I,
told them like, oh, yeah, you got to scrub up and then the, you know, that was not fun.
You know, it was well for a month just getting, you know, getting my arms wet in a tub.
Uh, was painful. And, you know, and then soap. Yeah, soap was a bad thing. You know, I tried, uh,
tried that dove, dove, dove's not any better. Oh, man. And then, you know, and going to the
screen, I got like a Lufan stuff. And, uh, so at least it would be faster. And not a fun experience.
And so the first day I did it and drove myself to town. So even though I had
some fun narcotics, I didn't think it was wise to use, you know, combine that and driving.
So here I am, uh, in Walmart after I've been, you know, had, uh, getting stuff, getting close
for me and dad because, uh, you know, I'd, I'd been to the hospital had, had my, uh, wounds
change, you know, or, you know, had the dressings changed. Went and got saw dad. And, well, you know,
some basic stuff. And got, got closed. Didn't have enough cash left to get phone. And, you know,
that was a fiasco because the first day couldn't you, they wouldn't take the counterchecks,
uh, because they can't scan them, scan them electronically. Uh, because there's no magnetic stuff.
It's just like, you know, mailing label steps stuck on a check. So, you know, I got home that night
and I might, well, home, uh, that the, the little house I said was shared with my, uh,
fraternity brother that's on our property. And he'd just been back from Vegas. He's like, well,
here's 500 bucks. He'd pay me back when you get the bank. So, that, that helped out. So,
the next day I went to got a phone. Uh, I'm, you know, I still haven't told you how she built me,
but, uh, uh, so the next day I went to got a phone and, you know, I got, you know, I got
straight talks. So you got the little cards you got to do every month. And, you know, I said,
they're, you know, I told the girl that I got a bunch of stuff close by. So there's a phone
and there's a straight talk card in there. She got the phone. She didn't, she didn't ring the
straight card, uh, straight talk card through. It's the first I get home at night and it was kind
of late for, I got to anything and, and found out the straight talk was offline. And then the next
morning I tried to activate the card and, you know, nothing that the number wasn't any good.
And I looked at my receipt and the card had never, you know, it never got, and there were,
they had charged me, but still, you know, that was another day without any kind of phone,
when I kind of sort of needed that kind of thing. So I wouldn't, you know, I told them,
okay, here's the phone. You know, I'm going to go buy a card and you, you know, I'm going to hand
it to you and you baked phone work. So, yeah, not, not like I'm perfectly capable of doing it,
no, I'm not leaving here till I know I can make a phone call on this thing.
Come back to suit, suit, just, you know, this is the first day, this is the day before I was just
talking about. So she sees me in Walmart and, you know, buying stuff from me and dad after I'd been
through this whole painful thing of cleaning up and then, you know, driving myself in the town
to get the wounds changed and addressed. And then, you know, buying stuff, it was not
feeling very good at that time, but just as there anything I can do for you,
I said, yeah, since you mentioned it, you know, I about killed myself today, you know,
you know, doing the cleanup that I need to do without any antibiotics, it would really help if
I could get somebody to, you know, driving in the town. So you did that for two days on,
and on Friday, well, I didn't have much choice, but, you know, I had no other transportation,
I kind of took advantage because I said, okay, you know, let's go out to Walmart after you,
so you need to go anywhere else and she's taking time off work and,
yes, yeah, I need to go get stuff from Walmart for dad and I. So, you know, I could tell after
two days of that, that was, that was an imposition in my, you know, I talked to my cousin,
because in Frank, I should have got to hold him first, because he's retired now and he has time.
And, you know, he agreed, whatever, driving around, you need to do, yeah, there's no problem, and then
it, well, you know, he took me into my appointments for two, three days, and then I had that first,
you know, appointment with this burn doctor and watch it, which time is why are you killing yourself
doing this, you know, you don't need to do all that, painful stuff to yourself, and you can,
you know, you can wrap your arms up at home and not have to worry, but, you know, take, take your,
take your fun pills, and no, they're not, it's, they're, their pain is not like you go flying
around the room on it or nothing like that. I had something like that after a domino surgery
years ago, and it was like, it wasn't so much it took care of the pain, but it's like, also,
I didn't care that I was in an incredible pain, it was like, man, you know, I don't want those
as, that, you could get too used to doing that real quick. Okay, I'm not an incredible pain,
somewhat of pain. So, is this all mellow and cool? Yeah, yeah. No, I decided, if I had
anything like that around, that would just be way too convenient. But, but, you know, you know,
I could alleviate my discomfort through chemicals, and, you know, and not have to leave the house
to change the dressings, because he's, you know, I said on that last beer podcast, he said,
oh, it just gets you some cherry cloth, cheap cherry cloth towels wrapped around your arm and
put an ace bandage on it, and that's all you need. So, then I didn't need people to drive me around
all the time, but I didn't need other things. I still do other things because I'm, you know,
I found the last, you know, that's been home a couple of days here, and
and I really don't think I'm going to have a whole lot of time to say this, do my harvest, you
know, be nine hours on a combine or anything. So, I already raised with a neighbor that if I
can't get things straightened out, and I don't think I will, before Milo and Beans get ripe that
he'll harvest them for me. You know, if there's anything I need to help him, you know, get my truck
out there, something like that. But, yeah, I think the new reality is my main job is going to have to be
working here with dad most of the time. So, but I want to thank Dean and Darren and Bruce
who took care of some stuff that I really couldn't realize in the hospital and those first
several days of recovery. I said, I want to thank Frank for driving me around and, you know,
we're recovering some of the documents that were in the fire safe in the house. Him and Steve did
that one afternoon. Let's see. I want to thank Dave for giving me a place to put the documents that
were, you know, that were in the fire safe and smelling moldy and stinky, and not particularly
welcome in the house, where is a little of my fraternity brother? I will thank Kevin for giving
me a place to stay for two months. That wasn't, you know, he didn't really have to do that.
And I'm sure there's other folks, you know, I want to thank everybody who contributed to the
fund anything campaign online like I said in the last episode. Wow, you know, it's the thought,
you know, but the money's good too. I won't say not, you know, I don't need that, but the
thought, you know, so many people were out there thinking of me. And like I said, you know,
I've rediscovered a lot of friends that I thought that was, you know, that was part of high school
college that was part of my life in the past. I hadn't made as much effort as I really should have
to reconnect. And, you know, Roy, I've got a credit Facebook with that, you know, and you know,
I saw that movie, the social network. And the whole thing all through the movie was, well, you
know, people wanted me on Facebook because Facebook is cool. And I thought what Facebook had become.
You know, Facebook people putting, you know, pictures of their babies poop on for their friends
to look at. That was my impression of Facebook again. And, you know, how can that possibly be cool?
But I found out, you know, I've got a lot of old friends that
get, you know, I thought maybe that, like I said, maybe as a past part of my life who
who has really had my back these last couple months. And you know what? You know what folks,
that is really cool. And that is why communities are made of people and not made of corporations.
And, you know, whatever, you know, my opinion of the origins of Facebook and whatever
are, you know, I have to say, I'm glad it was there for me. So with that, once again, I've been
your host 5150 for hacker public radio. Oh, man, I've been talking for 40 minutes. Again,
that's the second time tonight. People tell me to go to bed. Well, you can't tell me to go to bed.
I can tell me to go to bed. Okay. So this, this, this is me signing off for real this time.
And I'll catch you, catch you the next time with another riveting episode of hacker public radio.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share light, free.or license.
