Episode: 1351
Title: HPR1351: HPR Community News For August 2013
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1351/hpr1351.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 23:59:59

---

Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Thalam and we are listening to another fun food exaging
episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Joining me tonight are Ouka and Byer Brown.
Brighter is kind of busy in the house, so he'll be just listening a little while.
So Kevin, how's it going?
How are you today?
Oh, just great.
It couldn't be better.
Well, I'm very glad to hear that.
In fact, I'm very glad that you're on because I have a very, very special task for you.
Ah, let me guess.
You want me to read the new hosts?
Yeah, there's not a lot of point.
I'm going to butcher the names sooner or later, by the way.
Okay.
Oh, the two hosts this month, which, and you know, we're very, very happy to have new people
joining us and Vitality of Hacker Public Radio up there.
So this month, we're welcoming Stitch, Matt McGraw, Ian Neuer, Lane Deer, and Riley
Gellwicks.
That is just awesome.
And just by the way, we have this month, it's our 200th host who has contributed.
So 200 different people have contributed to Hacker Public Radio.
That is phenomenal, absolutely phenomenal.
So as we normally do, we're going to kick off with a rundown of shows from the previous
month.
So we, so as we move to this, I have no idea when we're going to post it out.
We're just confining Hacker Community News to the shows that were released in the month
that we were, that's in discussion.
So we dropped off last week, last month, sorry, at 1306, which was Freedom Follow-Off
by Christopher M Hobbs.
And that was a pretty cool show.
The apparently got quite a lot of feedback on his move to software freedom, and has
a liberation themselves.
So that's all good news.
His email address is SDF.org, which is another site that I recently got a permanent subscription
there, started using it a little bit more.
The following day was 1307, What's In My Bag, by ACIPTier, but that'd be right, Calendar.
Go again?
A Sipiter?
Yep, that'd be right.
And this is one very organized to have bagged, it has to be said.
This month there were a lot of these because of what we were in desperate need of shows.
But I think it's, it's been very interesting topic for me because there hasn't been one
of these where I thought, what are they talking about?
And you Google it and you go, oh, I really absolutely must get one of these.
I'm really enjoying it, but it did occur to me as I was listening.
How does it challenge various hosts out there, and they're all talking about what's in
the bag.
I'd like to know what's the best bag to get.
That's a good point, actually.
I've covered, I've done one of these, it's in the backup cues off, and I found a very
difficult thing to buy a bag because it's one of the things you need to kind of touch
and feel if you don't want to.
Yeah, I'm just, I'm looking for some ideas because my guess is that a really good bag
is not cheap.
Well, I wouldn't want to spend a lot of money on a bag that I ended up not like.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
I have a, you know, a taro spag, you know, or whatever you call it, taro spag, taro spag,
yes, and prior to that, I had like a cheap 29 book model from, you know, the media
market, which is as well as, you know, Wal-Mart or something, and I loved that on the
bag.
It was just perfect.
This one is horrible, falls over, just uncomfortable, it's just not a cool bag at all.
Yeah, I think that whatever I'm looking for, probably one of the things that it has, like
a, you're cutting out Kevin, cutting out for me at least.
All right, is that any better?
Yeah, that's better.
Okay, I just move the microphone, though, sort of like, you know, I'm thinking I'd like
one that probably has a battery of some sort that I could recharge my devices.
Okay, actually, this is a good topic.
Yes, people should do this and then recommendations.
Right.
Do it for me if for no other reason.
No, not at all.
Remind me at the end to add this to the list of requested topics, and if anyone else
listening out there has requested a topic that you want to do, there's lots of people
who would love to record a show and browse through the requested topics to see what show
they can do.
So if we add stuff to there, the following day was 13.08, helping a new commuter user.
And this was brilliant.
I printed this off and I actually used it for my own kids because I just assumed it's
been so long since I've done computery stuff.
And I just assumed everybody knows, you know, knows all this stuff and it was really refreshing
to get somebody who has an itemized checklist, which you can get on the show notes of exactly
what to do to explain to somebody how a computer works.
And we, we came after that, I had the kids go around with their camera and take photographs
of, you know, that on off button, you know, the one and the zero thing, finding as many
of them as they could in the house, so they had 20 or 30 different photos.
I don't know what that says about our house, but a lot of devices.
Yeah, you know, remote controls and that sort of thing, you know, mobile phones.
You know, it's on everything, even, you know, dishwashers and stuff like that.
It was pretty, pretty cool.
The day after was an episode that my self and my wife did about a human assisted reproduction,
which was brilliant, is what it was.
Guys did a great job.
I couldn't print it off for a moment.
Yeah, it was a difficult one to know whether to do.
I tend not to like too much of myself on the internet, but I kind of blew that there.
Anyway, enough about that.
Well, yeah, there's two things about that.
I mean, maybe you don't like to put yourself out.
Frankly, you know, I do these people that I sort of interact with online in very limited
ways.
I don't mind learning more about them.
That was one of the things.
But the other thing is that, you know, this is an issue for a lot of people, and I think
it's good that you have a discussion about what's involved, right?
Yeah, I think a lot of people assume that, you know, you can get pregnant, one, two, three,
like that.
And, you know, sometimes it's like that, or I've noticed that one, we've always been
very open about it with our friends and, you know, colleagues at work, and I've noticed
that just as soon as they start talking about other people, oh yeah, my sister has that
and, you know, ex-boyfriend of the blinds, brother has that, yeah, yeah, anyway, it is.
We had to record it twice, actually, because the first night we just hit with the famous
Zoom H2, have to press a twice button to record.
That's too bad.
Yeah, but we recorded it again and went on.
The following day was a 1310, energy democracy defined, which was by Bob Tergios.
Yeah, Les.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And this show, and this week in Energy, I was not familiar with the show at all, and I have
a sense subscribed, very, very interesting show about energy, the generation of it, while
we assume the only way to generate energy is through central, you know, central systems,
and that's probably not necessarily the thing.
Yeah, I thought it was a fascinating episode.
I have a real interest in that.
As do I.
So, you're still cutting out of it, I'm not sure what I could do at this point.
Okay, we'll continue on.
Modern inconveniences was Christopher M. Hobbs, and I also like this, because we do quite
a lot of this stuff as well.
Our souls have found, you know, the old traditional cleaning products and stuff to work just
as well, if not better than the items that we purchased previously.
Yeah, I enjoyed that.
So then we had a long-awaited interview by Deep Geek with Bridges.
Yes.
Virgita Jones' daughter, and she is one of the members of the Parliament of Iceland, representing
the Pirate Party, and Deep Geek had a great interview with her, along with an interesting
introduction from Epicanos.
So, the whole thing was actually very enjoyable.
Yes, I had listened to the interview already on the Deep Geek's own feet for the Epicanos
interview.
Yeah.
Interval was very amazing, you know what I'm saying.
I don't know.
What I find odd about this now is that the American government went to so much trouble to,
you know, to get this information on their tweets, you know, because they just rang
up the NSA and said, guys, you know, we need these tweets.
Right.
Oh, how I managed my contact by John Colp, yes, I've had this problem, and again, to go
back to us, we were saying last month about calendaring being crap, and I know a few people
have contacted me about that, and I'm doing a ruffle episode for them to prove that calendaring
is indeed crap.
Sure, slightly less crap than calendaring is contact management, but it ain't much better
than that for sure.
Right.
You know, the best I have right now is basically Google, and that leaves a lot to be desired,
but it does at least allow me to have a cross-platform sort of data that I can access anywhere.
Yeah.
Again, I will say, you know, we're spending so much time on the really complex, you know,
things, and we still haven't got that this sort of calendaring, you know, sort of.
There's Frank Bell, however, a whole regular, with impressions on magia.
Magia.
Yeah.
If I can't, I really can't.
Magia.
I like this episode, I must say.
I really do.
Yeah.
And I enjoyed it as well, because way, way back, the first Linux distro that I used as
a desktop.
I mean, I had had some interaction with Red Hat on a server, but my first desktop distro
was Mandrake, and Magia is essentially down the road, the open source fork of that.
I must say, he did, and I like the approach, you know, no desktop, no preference for
desktop, and you can, you have a go back in and fix option, but I kind of like that
as a.
I'm not saying I'm going to try it or anything, but there you go.
The next day, we had Libra Office 0.9, right, we're looking into paragraph level styles,
on your record.
Yep.
No, I love this show, let's say, again, I love in this entire series, as you know, because
I just sent you a paragraph style for some on the dyslexic font you wanted to create
a template for the Sonar project.
That's the one, that's what I want to do.
Yeah.
And I still need to correct that and send it back to you just for just for confirmation.
And I also gone through my email completely forgot to put in the links, you sent me a list
of links, and I completely forgot to put them in, so keep plugging me into that please.
Right.
Well, the website is always in the show notes, so the link just takes you to a specific
page within the website, but it's not that hard.
Yeah, but it's still nice to have a note click here.
So right now, I'm getting a little edgy about, you know, I got to get in and start creating
some stuff again, so writing and recording will be happening soon.
My plan is to do about, I don't know, four, five, six, I don't know how long it'll take
to finish up what I want to do with writer for now.
I mean, I could do just to things on writer for the next three years probably, but I want
to start getting into, I think the next one will be Calc.
Yeah, it's kind of hoping you were going to say that, yeah.
Because I got some things that I can talk about there that I think will be helpful.
And, you know, we were talking about helping the new computer user, and that's one of the
things that I think about when I'm doing this is that I don't assume that people know
anything about this.
So I can start at a really introductory level and then just start building.
And every time I do that, I discover that things that I thought were simple and obvious
and everyone knew them, it turns out that there are people who just had never heard
that before.
Well, today I just spent the best part of five or ten minutes looking for how to insert
a graph into a Calc stuff, I don't believe that, because I just don't have the menus anymore.
You need to press the button on the tool bar, I'm just going to stupid, I don't know.
I will, I will cover that.
So, graphic is definitely a part of it.
Excellent.
The next day we had Mr Gadgets phoning in what is my bag, and I had posted this as what
is in my bag, and thankfully, Dave Morris, our QED team got it in touch with me to correct
it.
I had no idea that this sort of stuff existed, but then again, I lost the memory of the
U.S. customers, since interesting way of putting a bag together.
And the following day, we had Curtis Adkins, you see, with what's in my bag, which was
very interesting for my point of view, because he had a LAN throwing star tap, which is an
awesome, awesome device, which I intend to purchase, allowing you to tap into server communications.
I usually had a old 10 megabit hub, so that's what I think this would do very, very well.
And in addition, it turns out there are healthy people listening to Hacker Public Radio.
The following day, we had Sun's old man, one, with a show on how he found Linux going
back to, yeah, it was kind of interesting, came through SunSpark, into Unix, got into
this kind of slackware, and then was added from the point of view of networking and stuff.
So yeah, pretty cool.
Then we had Frank Bell, who we discussed last month about Frank gathering information for
his presentation, and I felt his pain.
He left the presentation on the printer, so he had to wing it back into the presentation,
but he did a fantastic job, gave far too much credit to myself, but he did a very, very
good job presenting HVR.
And I mean, he really got across the e-calls of all we're trying to do here.
And he gave me the idea that I'm going to do something similar at my log in a couple
of weeks.
You should record us.
Let me see if I can't have to work out the technology, but yeah, it'd be worth doing
sort of like.
It's called the Sun's a clip, and you put it on your, you put it on your color shirt
color.
Good Lord, I've got several sounds eclipse around here, figure out how to do that then.
It might be more than just HVR, but that's fine.
No, just, it's, we've had, we used to have Davids, and then it's Southern California, South
Carolina, Linux.
South Carolina.
Yeah, that's a South Carolina Linux user group.
And they hold the record for the longest HVR show, two and a half hours or something.
Okay.
And then we had a new host.
We're going down the challenge.
Yeah, there you go.
We had a new host, Jay Robb, with how I got into Linux was 1320, and what's middle school?
Oh, middle school in the United States would be roughly grades seven, eight at nine.
What's grade seven, eight and nine?
Oh.
Let's see.
It's just, it's interesting.
Age is.
All right.
You're asking someone who doesn't have kids, so let me try and do some math in my head.
Let's say age is 12 through 14 roughly.
Okay.
So like a secondary school, I guess.
Well, it sort of falls between primary and secondary.
So primary kindergarten through grade six, so you know, like ages five to 11 or something
like that.
Middle school, ages 12 to 14 and then high school, but you know, 15 through 18, something
like that.
So you go to a different school for two years for no primary.
You know, it's, it's not my business, so I'll say for a reason that I don't fully understand.
Gotcha.
You're partners.
You're for me.
Foreign ways.
Not only that, but we don't use the metric system.
But thankfully, you've all converted to using ISO 8601 timestamps a year and a month
a day.
So glad to hear that.
Actually, not many people do.
Yeah, we all should.
I do.
But how many people do over here, I don't know if we can convince them.
But yes, a very good show looking forward to hearing more.
Yep.
The following day, we had Christopher M. Hobbs with Hobbs in my bag, and did I just make
comments to change this SDF account?
That was the second show this month.
Third.
Third.
Yeah.
You did the freedom follow up and the modern inconveniences.
Yeah.
And then we had yourself and myself taking over their words as you do.
Yeah.
Hi.
How's that going?
All over the world by the time people hear this.
It'll be over by the time people hear it.
Yes, because it is next week.
So everything is great.
I'm excited.
I'll be heading down to Columbus Thursday afternoon and be there through Sunday.
Well, to everybody going to Ohio, the next fest, I hate you all.
I hate you all.
Yeah, we love you too.
Yeah.
I'm not able to go to.
Just remember, I don't get to go to FASDA.
Yeah, I don't know if I would be able to go to FASDA mother.
But we will see.
I haven't been to FASDA.
I'm a plan to go twice in four times.
Yeah.
FASDA everyday.
Actually, I can't miss coming up and I won't get to that one either.
Yeah, and it turns out Dave's the snake, Morris, has told me no.
I won't be going and then he ended up going down after all.
But actually, it's amazing the amount of people I should never go to.
Only at these festivals.
It's amazing the amount of people who have turned up to do a HBR booth now.
There's about four or five different people going to be around.
I don't think anybody walking into the building will be safe.
It will be a microphone.
It's shoved on what they're known.
Then the following day we did community news, which leaves two more shows,
which were porting mega happy sprites to windows.
Again, of course, one would, one was developing code.
One would of course use cost compilers to cost compilers.
Sometimes, I think cyclops is operating in a completely different league to where I am.
Oh, in my case, there's no doubt at all.
Yes.
I love listening to it, thinking, boy, what would it be like if I actually understood all of this?
I was actually thinking, that's kind of cool because there are some things I do work where I could compile them.
I could get them onto windows and send me all that hassle.
It might actually be interesting.
So that one, at least, I was thinking, yeah, cool.
I might actually use that.
And then paragraph styles in templates.
Very applicable.
Again.
So let's see what's on the roster for coming up.
We have scheduled currently.
Let's see.
We have programming in the languages three by Garjola.
As C has been just released, which is nice, nice introduction to C.
A tale of changing by Enloy Bill, Jingles by Stitch, who is one of the organizers of OITN 2015,
who let us set up a boot sentence on Jingles.
An introduction.
So that's how I got into Linux.
Find National Grah.
Keep that open source member illness with an interview you made last month.
After last month's show, Dave was saying, he mentioned that there was a chapter in open source mental illness talk around some of the press.
So I just buy them off an email and we got a nice interview from a name.
You're bringing up with some one, two, three liberal postings.
We got through the Rosetta Dream by Julian Nivell, overdrive by C.
Which will be Episode 1337.
Lease.
C.
How apt is that folks?
I think there is no one who is more deserving.
I had just sent the discussion out on the mailing list.
The last episode was available because Dankdog mentioned, you always see episode 1337 is available.
And then as I checked, I had just sent send and then I checked the logs on the server on the BPS to see whether it was new shows in.
And she had just uploaded with the next available slot.
And that of course was 1337.
So I personally think Kate has done a far better, far better job of picking mostly.
Most least person on HBO.
And at the whole point of our new scheduling thing is that it's just whoever signs up signs up.
So yeah, nobody can argue.
Right, just as well.
You did a triumph with your thought on the scales.
I was wondering why in my bill, one to this, he had specifically put 1338.
Most people just say next available slot.
And I completely missed it.
So I just put it.
He asked me then to mention that it should be moved to 1338.
So I did.
And then it gave me, oh yeah, he was leaving 1337 available.
So that was cool.
Yeah.
And Pompize and my bill and another episode legacy technology.
My Victoria.
Victoria.
I saw the photos for this.
Obviously, as everybody knows or should know by now, I don't listen to the shows on time.
They're released.
It's a pain.
And this one looks nice actually.
And the next episode will be out and about it was jam 2013.
And I recorded a mad amount of interviews, which I completely forgot.
I had recorded cause of the heat.
So they'll be released there.
We have talk keep to me newscast.
Come on back.
The following Monday, power tool drag racing on them by Mr. Gadgets.
Again, I don't listen to these.
So I have no idea.
He now sends links to show notes.
So I put those in and then I generally edit the show notes afterwards.
And to clever for your own good and land here.
Help to clever for your own good by.
Land here are land here.
Oh, yes.
This is my sense of I like this.
The next day is a filming a dinosaur egg hatching requested by Peter 64.
And it's my son and myself.
He actually the whole speaks in the podcast.
And then you.
And then how to properly evangelize Linux or why I use Linux as my daily driver.
By Riley.
Galwix.
Thank you.
And Linux jazz number four by Brian Mann, who's making a walk in return.
Then we have the last one.
So far is Melissa to rest helps me with my audio compassion by Jonathan.
So that's what's in the queue.
It's a good cue.
And I will also mention for people who are fans of Dan Washco's Linux in the show.
I was talking to Dan the other day.
And I think like a lot of people summer comes and you know, he's involved with family stuff.
But he said he's going to get back and record some more shows.
I'm absolutely very happy to hear that.
And I didn't doubt it for a minute.
Yeah, I know that there's a lot of fans and you and I are among them of Dan's series.
They're going to be looking forward to that.
Yes, yes, I am.
And I actually refer an amazing amount of people to those episodes, you don't believe.
So I did put some stats in the show notes.
I mean, basically on the mailing list, we only really had two items.
Quite enough.
Basically, everybody going to I'm camp except Ken.
And I hate them all with equal amount.
They better give me some stickers or something.
And there was a discussion about HPR episodes with code is okay as far as the missing community is concerned.
Because last month we had the question Dave and I, you know, about whether people were following along, I guess.
Some people seem to like it and it seems to be something that is possible to do on the air with.
And if anyone needs a soundboard to discuss stuff with.
Needle media has offered himself as a soundboard platform.
So I was asked by one of the listeners to HPR, one of the contributors to HPR to get some statistics on the amount of shows that we have released over the years.
So I did a Python apparel script as you know, and I was able to go through the log files.
Now, I, it's very difficult to know what is going on with a log files because some IP addresses download several episodes of several of the same episodes in the one day several episodes one day, then we'll download them again.
So what I did was I said we will normalize it down to any particular IP address downloading any particular episode in an particular day.
That seems reasonable.
Yeah, I don't see why not.
It's not like we're trying to sell this to advertisers.
No, not at all.
And we would do impressions if we were to do.
So I put some stats in the show notes and Joe, I also put in the queue status as it looks now the graph.
So we had the fall and then after the summer we had a nice build up and now we're having a gradual fade down as well.
And that tends to happen.
And then what tends to happen is we have to the summer period like this is a big summer long, then we get quite a lot of shows in nothing like this.
We've never had church.
We almost had, we have 34 shows in the queue this month.
We've never had that before ever.
And it's normally tapers off a little tapers down and then people, you know, the autumn comes in.
And people have more time for the fall, as you guys say, or the spring as for future 64 living on the wrong side of the world.
And people have more time to record shows and stuff.
So I think we're over the worst of us.
But it's interesting to be keeping track of this stuff.
Right.
So that's in the show notes.
So the summary of the stats as I can make them out.
And there's a tar fall report that BZ2.
If you just don't download that one tire, you get this raw information yourself and you can do two graphs.
I would be impressed.
So the project itself started seven years six months, 22 days ago.
That's on the 10th of the pen, 2005.
So next month, next month will be our eight year anniversary.
And we were named HPR on
the month of 2013 to 428.
So we have a total of 1,685 shows.
We have had 200 HPR hosts and the next free slots is in 25 days.
There are 13 shows in Q, 13 hosts in the queue and 22 shows in the queue.
So that's quite healthy, I think.
For 86,109 downloads in August.
So that's an average of 2,620 downloads.
So if we work out back to the start of this project, that would be 7,567,791 in the digital hits, which I think is pretty impressive.
A couple of things, first of all, the line about when it was renamed HPR.
I might want to take a look at that year again, because I'm guessing that didn't happen in 2013.
You're a close rise, thank you, thank you, thank you.
But the other thing that jumps out at me as someone who is a host and records these programs is,
I sometimes get the impression I'm doing this for 20 people, because 20 people is about how many I interact with.
Yeah, I know what you mean, yeah.
And it's like, oh, actually, it's like 2000.
Yeah.
There's a lot of people out there who like these shows, even though they may not write, they may not call.
They don't come onto the community news each month, but they like the shows.
Yeah, and what's interesting is they is the buildup for a particular show.
I put the stats in, you know, the number of downloads per day that we have.
And it's about, and I write next to that on that particular day, the amount in total that that show has had.
So obviously the newer show at the end of the month has a lot less hits than the one that's been released at the beginning of the month.
So shows that have just been released, get about, you know, 12 1300 downloads straight away.
But by the end of the month, they've got 2000 downloads.
Well, let's see more funny.
Our interesting, I think, is that over any particular day, you see that there's almost double the downloads.
People are downloading the regular show, but we have people downloading older shows, you know, shows from God knows when.
Going back to the old one downloading it's, it's, yeah, it's cool pretty much.
The longer your show goes up, they might hit four or five thousand hits, you know.
Oh, exactly.
And, you know, you would ask me to give you the URLs for the pages on my website that correspond to the shows.
And while I was doing that, I was also putting on those pages.
Here's the link to the hacker public radio episode.
So someone will stumble across my website, say, oh, there's an audio that goes with this.
And that might be three years from now, but they'll click on it and download it.
And that does, and that does happen.
You see occasionally I see spikes and I go, oh, we've been attacked or something, but somebody has just subscribed and has pulled down all the episodes.
You know, God loves them. We won't see them for this, because they're listening to the, to the whole shows.
But yeah, it's a thousand episodes.
Yeah, but put that into perspective.
How many people do you expect to be at the Ohio Linux Fest this month?
800 to 1000.
So like somebody on the first day recording a show is speaking to every single participant.
And more, they will go into the Ohio Linux Fest.
Yeah, it's, and then double last.
And then you hit the amount of the entire people who go to all the Linux Fest over the entire lifetime of your show.
It's pretty cool.
Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely. I think it's wonderful.
I mean, we're probably not the biggest, you know, tech or whatever podcast out there, but really respectable audience.
And it seems fairly constant.
These aren't now our assessments. These are, these are actual downloads of the MP3 organ speaks for.
So pretty cool.
Yeah.
So average daily download of 2620 shows this month based on this month.
Right.
Okay.
The last thing I wanted to mention was,
there was a request about how we, if you go to the host page, then there's some of the hosts have got pictures on there.
Right.
And I'm just clicking that now.
And that's actually done via gravatar.
So if you've got, if your email address is registered a gravatar, which are fairly open company and this seems to be not.
I think they're affiliated to WordPress in some way.
And so if you upload your avatar there, any of the websites that run the plugin can go to their site with a hash of,
it's actually an MD5 hash of your email address.
And then they will see if they've got that online and they'll put in the picture.
So that's all very well.
Two things about that is number one is from a privacy point of view.
I'm not really happy with that because it means every single time you go to that website,
somebody is, you're making a request to gravatar directly as opposed to getting pulling that image from HPR,
which means periodically to be tracked.
So what I want to do is run a script on a daily basis that will go out from HPR, gather all the images,
and then have the images locally, and then serve them up locally.
So that way, when you get the image, it will come from HPR and then they won't,
I don't, not for a moment saying that they are tracking you in any way, shape with a form,
but that privacy concern will be eliminated.
But then that kept me thinking about the host page in general.
Currently, we have just the name of the host, the host ID, and the website and email address.
And then, you know, the number of episodes that's done, and that sort of thing.
But we could probably do a little bit better there.
You know, instant messenger, have the option to put their own photo up,
a little bit of summary about themselves, you know, kind of little homepage.
If you like, one thing I definitely want to have in there is their email key.
And if there was only somebody in the HPR community who would have an email show on how to set up GPG or something like that,
I would seriously appreciate it.
Well, interestingly enough, I've been thinking about doing one.
So, yeah, that would be a very nice one.
No one needs to be to it. I will probably do it the next few weeks.
To be honest, who can regardless of whether anyone beats you to it, feel free to everybody.
You feel free to do your show.
And if somebody else does a show from a different point of view, it's all the better.
The more shows we have on this, give you the current climate for this, that's another monitoring that's going on.
It's probably no harm.
And I was also thinking that it might be a good way if we have the people's public keys,
we could then verify if the show or the comments or their updates were from that person.
And then it would probably be possible for them to email then an update that is signed.
And then we would notice from them.
And then that would allow them to edit the webpage.
Send in an edit for the webpage as they will be trusted individual.
Right.
Do you know where I'm going with this?
Getting a sense of it.
Well, those page should be edited by the host, obviously.
Right.
But I don't want to be maintaining a whole database of yet another website where you keep your,
you have to log in and there's accounts and those passwords.
And that just introduces a whole goal of mess.
Right.
If somebody who is, if you, for example, have a key, a private key or a public key via this email,
the GPG or whatever,
then it should be possible to encrypt or sign a message saying,
this is definitely from you.
I will be able to verify that this is from you and then go,
okay, well, if this is from you, I trust you.
So therefore I will replace the text on your website with this website or I will allow you
in to edit just this piece of the website.
Okay.
Makes sense.
Okay.
If anyone has any ideas about that, we can of course be free to contact them.
Sure.
I don't want to do anything else Kevin.
Yeah.
Just want to wish you all the best of luck next week.
Well, thank you.
Thank you.
I will, I will come home exhausted on Sunday.
Yeah.
And look forward to hearing about it on the analytics text show afterwards.
Yeah.
Possibly there and I'll probably get on Linux for the rest of us as well with door to door geek.
Excellent.
Give him my best and say I still love him.
This vice is astute and security.
He didn't know what that means.
Okay.
Okay.
I don't.
I send him in some feedback about his astute to security.
So he in true.
Right back.
That's great.
I'll talk to you later.
Sounds good, Cam.
Okay, tune in folks tomorrow for another exciting episode of Acro Public Radio.
Join us now and share the soul where you'll be free.
Okay, my wife's looking to be funny.
Bye.
Bye.
You have been listening to Acro Public Radio at Acro Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Acro Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer cloud.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are proudly sponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share a life, details or license.
