Episode: 1158
Title: HPR1158: 2012-2013 Hacker Public Radio New Year Show Part 8
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1158/hpr1158.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 20:45:49

---

Only one more art craft folks on the Hacker Public Radio in New Year extravaganza 2013.
Dude man, how do you sound now?
Oh I sound much better.
He's not a helium!
What was the fix dude man?
I restarted posts and I locked out a few times of the mumbles, I'm not sure which
is the post.
Yeah, I think it's the post, or at least that's what I would be inclined to guess.
The weird thing is that the person who's asking me about it doesn't run posts, so there
goes that.
Actually, so here's what I noticed when I was looking at before and I sent a message
you didn't catch us, your timing for your packets was really long, it was like over 300
milliseconds and there was a huge ping deviation.
So it sounds like the packets were actually just coming across the network connection in
really weird batches and that's what was actually causing it to sound all scrunchy like
that.
Ah, interesting.
Well I still got it really long now so I'm surprised, it's still at 40 milliseconds
when I look at the settings.
Yeah, how was it only two hours can I start this, why didn't I start this but just after
six o'clock this morning and I'm at three and two hours would be five, I'm sending hours
somewhere.
Dude, man, before you were over 300 milliseconds on your packets and like 190 something
in deviation, that's big, thanks.
Dude, man, part of the problem too is that we don't actually know how you're supposed
to sound so could be that you've always sounded strange to us.
Yeah, that's really very possible.
I have got a much higher pitch voice but I've got this sound box on the microphone to
adjust it, you know, so I sound a bit more like a sense of it.
Very nice.
I do the same thing.
You've got to have the, you're okay.
Yeah, we talked to dude, man, every Friday night, long after pod brewers and he normally
sounds normal.
Whatever that means to the rest of us, you know, are we all normal?
I think that's a no.
I was going to say normal around here, normality, what a hoax, what a hoax, what a hoax,
that's how you try this out too.
So that was my daughter, she was just jumping up and down on my knee making funny noises
enough for you guys.
I like to hear it.
And yes, it's sulfur hexafluoride, by the way.
It's basically like the anti helium, so helium makes you talk really high pitched sulfur
hexafluoride makes you sound like Barry White.
And it has no harmful side effects?
Well, basically the same as helium, if you have too much of it, you will starve yourself
for oxygen, but basically no, I mean, you can breathe it in.
There's a Jay Leno, I think, did it on the demonstration, and it's weird because it's
a heavy gas, so you can have this, they have this, it's like a fish tank or something.
And they poured this stuff into it and they took a boat made of tinfoil or something and
basically floated it on the air because it was lighter than the sulfur hexafluoride.
And the really weird thing is the guy then picks up the stuff with his hands and pour
it into the boat and the boat then sinks, because of course he's poured it into the middle
of it, so it's, but it's all with gas and it's just very strange, but you can probably
find it fairly simply by searching on YouTube for sulfur hexafluoride.
Is that the gas you've got to be careful, that if you get into lungs, you can't get it
out unless you turn yourself upside down?
Yes, because it is heavier, so you've either got to breathe all the oxygen out or, well
except if you're not careful, breathe it into your lungs because it is heavier, helium
isn't a problem, helium is straight out, but it goes out, it leaves its waves to turn
yourself upside down and breathe to make sure it goes.
So the Australians will be okay.
Yes, well sorry, obviously the Australians are making more high-pitched, wouldn't it?
That does explain Peter 64's womanly voice.
Good morning everyone, for a very sunny UK, Happy New Year!
Happy New Year!
Happy New Year!
Happy New Year!
Happy New Year!
Happy New Year!
Happy New Year!
Happy New Year!
Happy New Year!
Happy New Year!
Happy New Year!
Happy New Year!
Well, I've got to cut out because I've got some work to do, Happy New Year to everybody
and if I missed anybody or didn't get to say Happy New Year, Happy New Year, I'll catch
y'all later.
See you in the end!
So this is going to end with the exact same like original cast pretty much as when I came
in this morning.
I wasn't that beginning of this, I was there for a little bit before I started and then
away for hours and when I was around here and there.
I recognize most of your voices, I don't match names to voices, but are you guys mostly
like active HPR contributors?
Not me, first time on there.
I think it's me in one episode.
I used to be about number three for most of the episodes, but-
The episode title ever.
I've been on two podcasts, say if I was saying that, so, Ted Byes and Quivins.
Yeah, I've been on HPR once.
What was your episode?
Oh, the Pot Brewers episode, I don't remember what-
Oh, okay.
Nerds need groupies too, more than rock stars.
Second.
Somebody said she's just a groupie, I said Geeks need groupies more than rock stars.
I've not done an HPR episode, but I'm on Colonel Panic all the time, so, might have heard
me there.
You haven't done an HPR episode?
No, I haven't.
By the way, the counter has been reset, everybody needs to do an episode for 2030.
Wait, what was the voucher deal?
That was for 2012, but expired to build.
Oh, right, I forgot, yeah, yeah.
You've got one hour and 52 minutes to use that voucher up.
Not to start that discussion again, dang it, can you get at least four of mine in the queue.
No, I don't.
I'm waiting for my husband to burst into flames, saying he didn't contribute one last year.
You have your fingers crossed, though.
Well, he did an interview, at least.
Whether you knew he was doing an interview at the time is another question, but he did an interview.
You were both on the New Year's episode a year ago, so that's got to count.
That doesn't count.
That doesn't count.
That was the last year.
Well, I didn't even claim to be on last year's episode.
I wasn't even around to do last year's New Year's show.
I'm 50 years old.
I'm 50 years old.
You have only one show in the queue, by the way.
Oh, come on.
I just dropped one in the other day, and there's three you haven't done.
No, seriously, no messing.
All your shows have been posted from my, if that's not the case, we need to talk offline,
because I've lost them or something.
I've only got polyabook report, dead Mac, the rest of all been aired.
I don't think so, because there's the review on Sin Arch, and the others I posted about that time, just a minute.
Well, Arch related shows go straight to the trash bin anyway, so that would explain that on.
You don't need to tell the bad arch.
I've only been listening to HPR for maybe a couple of months.
A lot of you guys sound like you've worked together before.
I mean, I know some of you don't know each other necessarily, like, in person,
but have you guys all been part of the HPR community for long enough to, you know, recognize each other?
Yeah, I know, I know, I know it's something like that too.
It's some of them it is, like, they know each other.
You know what I'm saying?
I'm not sure I'm talking to you here, really?
Okay, Ken, I met up camp briefly at that public radio stand, or whatever, and he said,
I wanted to come on to the podcast, and I'm not part of this anyway.
But I don't really know who I'm talking to here, and you people either don't either, such, but I don't really matter.
It's the point of HPR, it doesn't matter, it's just people chatting.
So all these people are like, who the hell is this talking now?
Yeah, I don't want you to know if Ben sold Mr. Zolk.
I know, he didn't sell it twice.
This is all to reconstruct, re-contributing some of the horror episodes that were classic.
It has been like 18 months since I last did an episode or something.
Hey, well, you're on this one now, so doesn't that count?
Sounds like you're all in confession.
It's been 18 months since my last HPR episode, Father.
Isn't that supposed to be both Hell and Mary's?
Isn't that supposed to be the last hour of the five guests?
Definitely not Hell and Mary's.
Penance is more episodes.
Should we be doing this with the fake Ken found?
I thought we saved the confessions for the last hour of the show.
It is the last hour of the show.
Ken, I know what it is, because I am looking in the calendar,
because I did not prefix those three shows with my handles.
It's cleaning the obsolete Linux kernels, copying a printer definition,
and a review of CINARCH.
Those are all mine in a row.
And there's DeepGeek, and then there's mine with the deadmack.
And then I dropped that horrible crappy one I did in the other day that was impromptu.
I don't know why I didn't prefix them with your name.
Okay, fair enough.
Hey, so does everyone that's on here that's talked?
Does this count as one podcast for the last?
Absolutely does not count.
Wait, what are we all here for?
It should count like feet.
Now you tell us on the count.
It counts for the 2012 one.
If you happen already, don't I show?
If you listen to it.
There will be a 24-hour live in the feed.
Pardon me, go ahead over.
There will be a 24-hour log file in the feed now, right?
No, there's a 4-hour one just been FTPed right now.
No, it's because we just split this one up into the next three months of episodes.
It's like half an hour here, half an hour there.
No, it'll go out in chunks for the next week or so.
That's pretty cool.
I didn't expect that.
I've tried to convince Ken that everybody contributed to 1024 should be credited.
I think it's still all under me.
I may wind up bidding not claw two for the year, which is totally unfair, but I'll take it.
No one's going to be deep geek.
Yeah, but his were syndicated.
That's not fair.
Fairness is nothing to do with my friend.
It's all about competition here.
In that case, I got 53 episodes.
They're syndicated.
I'll put it in the queue.
Yeah, we're only...
You haven't even put them into the hardware issue yet.
Yeah, I know.
Why start now?
Actually, I'm thinking of banning all brewing shows as well, simply because it's also another hobby I would be very interested in.
The problem would be more detrimental to my health than the amateur radio.
Anything that you're interested in or you might be interested in, you're going to ban.
I have too many hobbies.
I can sympathize with this problem.
Well, Ken, I tell you what, I've been on the podcast show for like eight months now.
And my Mr. Beer is still in the damp box, so I think you're safe.
The thing is, though, when you live in the Netherlands and you have access to some excellent Belgian beers,
you're anything that I could possibly hope to produce in my basement will be fall very, very short of what the trapeze dudes do.
Oh, America is not IP.
I hear nightwise, and it's like, oh my God, why don't you send me some of those beers?
Yeah, they do really crappy West Coast IPAs.
Do you guys follow source trunk at all the podcast?
Oh, and I haven't.
Yeah, I used to follow that one.
He does a nice review of beer in every show.
Oh, excellent review.
Yeah, that's where I was thinking.
Well, I'm not that nightwise doesn't do some once in a while, but yeah, source trunk, that's where I was thinking.
I find it kind of hilarious, like how much time he actually spends talking about the beer.
And it's texture and it's taste and feel and everything.
I like it.
I mean, I would, even if I wanted to drink the beer, I would never have access to the stuff he's talking about.
And yet he rattles off the name as if though I should just go down to the corner market and like, you know, pick one up.
Well, it's like that.
Yeah.
Our shops here where you can walk in and just go and have a lot of things.
The only, there's only one trapeze that's very, very difficult to get because they only make a certain number of crates per year.
And the limits, you know, you have to stand the line and get a token for that number of crates.
And they have no interest in making any more of the only making off so that they can keep their license from year and year.
Is it plenty the elder?
No, is it can't be on?
Sorry, just one second.
I need to move people back into the HGRI room.
I'll get a link for you.
Can you get a can't be on over there?
Sorry, just back in a sec, okay?
Hey, I'm looking at the requested topics here and I'm wondering, is that up to date, is that the stuff that people want to hear about?
Because I might be, I might want to do some episodes.
I don't know how recently that has been updated, but last time I checked, nothing was outdated.
So I think tentatively the answer is yes.
Yeah, certainly in the last month people picked topics from that list.
I guess about a couple that I might be able to offer some interesting information about.
Any topic that's of interest to hackers?
Just don't forget that.
As long as you like.
Well, I'm a web developer type hacker.
I always want to talk about code, but I don't see anything particularly related to web development here.
I know that doesn't mean it's disqualified, but you know.
That's fine.
No, that means yes, fine.
Talk about it.
All that's there is requested topics just to get somebody thinking about it.
Those are ones that specifically people have asked for.
I don't think we get enough of that.
So if you're listening to this and you think, hey, I have a few topics that I would like to hear about.
I've often had it from people where they've come up to the booth or whatever they're talking to me and they say,
well, I have no interest in this topic.
And then you say, well, what do you do for a living well while I do this?
And that's really interesting topic.
And of course, I'm interested to hear about that.
The reason I asked is if their current is because one of them is how to set up your own blog.
And that seems like it might have been more like maybe a little easier now than it was just a few years ago.
So maybe fewer people would be as interested in learning how to set up their own blog.
Because, you know, like with that straight out of the box WordPress five minute install, it's pretty easy.
Well, no, we just we just had it like a new six episode series on how to do WordPress.
I guess that shows how short a time I've been listening.
I missed that one.
I want to interject that, you know, it comes down maybe to the beer, but listing the source truck to me tree.
Yeah, so easily handles words.
I mean, I'm kind of talking to you can, but Europeans, I did a video review the other day.
And it was just horrible the way I probably butchered all the words about the beer work.
You know, the origin and work came from whatever it just it just seems like even you guys who English is the first language that, you know, that the European pronunciations of some of these places and words has come so easily to you that it's.
It's tough that the American tongue was not built to pronounce.
You know, if you see where I mean.
Well, I think to me, it lives on the border between.
You know, it lives in Belgium where they speak flu English French and Dutch, so.
And German, quite a lot of them, so.
I think he's at an advantage from a very early age.
51 50 we are on about in British English and American and different is or just or just different nationalities of thousands English.
I was saying the different nationalities.
I mean, there are pronunciations I've heard from some of the Europeans that, you know, even I thought I was trained in how to pronounce that word.
I don't think I could do it.
Have you heard me pronounce people's handles and stuff?
Where were you from 51 50?
Yeah.
South American.
You sounded different.
You know, it's like saying very much in the South.
They get soundy.
No, I didn't mean it.
It sounded like you weren't from America, but it was second by what you were saying if you get what I mean.
Well, I'm American, but I live in Malaysia and I've lived in a lot of differences.
And I can tell you, one thing I think that most Americans are not inclined to learn a second language is certainly not a third and a fourth.
And another thing is it's really hard just speaking from personal experience.
It's really hard or at least it was for me to pick up other other languages.
And obviously you start as kids in other places.
Do you guys agree with that, especially the ones that are not American?
Yeah.
British people in general, I mean, I'm half Swedish as well.
So I can speak Swedish.
I mean, he's good as my English, which is good.
But in England, you might be good to learn.
You'd better go to school.
You'd probably learn French in German and maybe not compulsory anymore, but anyway, it used to be definitely like that.
And people don't necessarily pick up to language that well or a lot of them think, oh, it's no point.
Everyone speaks English anyway.
The Welsh in Wales, they know English, but I think they got to actually learn Welsh out of the school, which is good.
Scotland, I think it's just, they just stick to English really, I'm not sure quite.
But in general, I think in general the idea, if you know English fluently, a lot of people,
of clearly America is clearly Australian, you know, everyone really think the general idea is sort of by a lot of people,
not everyone.
It's sort of like, oh, not a language.
It's not much point learning that because pretty much the whole Welsh speaks English anyway, sort of thing.
I think that's the attitude by a lot of people, not everyone.
I mean, some people love learning different languages, but yeah.
Well, not for the first time tonight, I'd like to disagree with you.
I think you've been a bit unfair because if you're living in the States, and the international language is English,
and I've seen it here, you know, where French Germans, and yeah, I've even seen it in Belgium, where people from one side and the other
want to speak to each other in each other's language, and they'll end up talking in English.
So English is the international language at the moment.
So if you're not a native English speaker, it's obvious you're going to learn to speak English.
That's what I mean.
If you're from another country, you will probably learn English because you say it's an international language.
But if you're in England, right?
If you're growing up in England, I mean that you speak very much so compulsive,
you have to learn that language at school.
But I think they've changed that more recently, but still schools are doing the second language.
I'm not sure I understand about this one.
But they have to have one language.
Is it still like that? Are you sure?
Yeah, absolutely.
So we'll talk about dropping the whole option of having to learn a second language at school.
But if it's not like that, okay.
But my point still applies to the general ass children.
From a lot of school to children, let's say, is that they don't really need to learn a language,
or do they feel it's as important because, like Ken said,
English is seen as the international language anyway at the moment.
Yeah, but that's not what I meant.
What I meant was I will give the English-speaking nations a break,
because you don't know what additional language to learn.
It's not obvious if you live in the States,
should you be learning Chinese, or Russian, or French, or Mexican,
or sorry, Mexican Spanish.
They're pretty different.
Hey, it's like English versus American, Mexican versus Spanish.
So Ken, you had to learn English growing up.
No, I had to learn Irish growing up.
We had to learn, I went to an Irish-speaking school.
So we spoke English at home and Irish in school.
But then I didn't know I learned a bit of French,
and I learned a bit of German in school,
and because you had to.
But I had zero interest in this.
But when I came to the Netherlands and you kind of live in the country,
well, you have to learn Dutch.
Well, here you don't have to learn Dutch.
But in fact, it's quite the opposite.
It's very difficult to find a Dutch person.
See, that's what I'm talking about.
I think Americans are the only ones who aren't so strongly encouraged
to learn a second language.
I mean, I had a year of Spanish in high school,
but I don't speak those languages.
It was more of a, you know, just fill-in time.
That's right.
And I don't need to have to acknowledge that it's an international language.
I think it's really almost arrogance.
Well, why?
That's what an American thing is.
There's loads of people that work with them work
who are living here in the Netherlands as well,
and they are, they're also fluent Dutch speakers, you know,
with their drop.
My, you know, Spanish teacher in school
was also the cheerleading instructor,
and it was a deal where, you know,
the cheerleaders would pass,
and I had two years of Spanish,
and Roy still don't, you know, don't speak it at all.
I know some, but not enough to get by.
You know, obviously I was giving Ken a little bit of a problem.
I mean, I, I would love to be able to speak gay
like enough to get by.
So, so would I.
One of the biggest problems I've noticed
with learning foreign languages in the United States
has for me more to do with the fact that
I don't have anywhere to use it.
The dialect of German they taught me in school
was not the same dialect of German my grandparents spoke.
And my sister who took Spanish,
she had a few more opportunities to use that
because we have more of a Hispanic population
on the west coast than a lot of places.
But find a Hispanic person
who really wants to speak to you in Spanish.
It is hard to do.
I think I see what you're saying as well.
Again, with languages, kind of like,
okay, you're going to have a second language at school,
but is it going to be useful?
Are you going to be using it?
Well, with your teaching you in school,
and the two years required to take in high school
to get out of high school and into a decent college.
What they're teaching you is not conversational language.
You end up coming out of there speaking, like,
at best, like a second grader.
Yeah, no doubt.
When I went to a, when I was going to high school,
they, there were ways around taking, you know, a second language.
So I never even took a second language in high school.
You know, it's really not all that encouraged.
And when I was, when I was living down in San Diego,
I can count the number of times I wished I could speak Spanish
to talk to some of the people that were there.
Because they don't want to, you know, shoot.
They look at you like, uh, I don't understand what you're saying.
Now granted, they probably wouldn't want to speak to you in Spanish either.
Well, it was some of them.
And I hate to say this because I don't like drawing these,
these, these stereotypes.
But in a lot of cases, I've found that even when you are speaking it correctly,
there's a few out there who will pretend you're not
because they don't want to conversate with you.
They want to keep you confused.
You know, so it's, it's one for their amusement or two
because they don't want you to know that you're on the right track.
No, that, that, that's rare.
But it happens.
I've seen it.
And I don't, you know, that's enough right there to convince me not to speak.
Trying to speak the same language they are.
I must say the French are fantastic for,
if you, if you want to learn a language anywhere,
my experience has been that they will be really slow and wait for you to finish your,
finish your questions and, you know, you go into a bakery and ask for bread
and they will correct your grammar.
And they will, you know, people in the queue behind will go,
no, no, it's fine, carry on.
Whereas here, if you're going to ask for bread and Dutch,
they'll switch English and just talk to you in English.
I totally agree with you when I went to France a couple years ago.
I was, you know, I like trying to speak other languages and they did the same thing.
It was, I'm sitting there trying to say something and they helped me out
and I'd say a couple of times and, you know, they loved it.
And there's nothing wrong with that.
I had it when you're learning a language that's, you know, people do or not.
And, you know, you called rice.
I finally got the bread.
He is giving me the bread.
I've had a different experience with my second language and I think it's better.
But my second language is Malay and it's not useful internationally.
But I'll tell you, the reaction that I get from people when they find out
that I can speak their local language here because that's what Malay should say.
My question for Malay is,
Hey Vince, you're starting to break out, let off the key for a second so your router can catch up.
In that, you were talking Malay because it was probably about the same level of understanding for me.
I found the same thing over in Korea.
Koreans, it was neat to be able to speak a little bit of Korean and they say,
wow, your accent's great or something like that.
When I was in Australia, did every Tommy met someone we basically asked
and how do you say some of a bitch in your language?
So I can speak bits of about 15 languages but it's mainly sort of like yes
or no or some of a bitch and that's about it.
Well, what I would be interested in hearing if anybody knows somebody...
Can I pick up again from Vince, what were you saying?
Oh, I was just saying I've had a lot better experience than it sounds like some of you guys have had,
except my second language is Malay and it's useless internationally.
But I've had such a wonderful experience when I speak to people here.
I live in Malaysia and when I speak to people here they're so pleased.
I just love looking at the reaction on their face when they find out that I can speak Malay.
And I think that's a little different than what some of you guys are saying.
I mean, like I can say, I know Swedish as well which again isn't really that useful internationally
but there's obviously the Swedish speaking part of Finland as well.
You can sort of get by within Denmark and Norway and that's about it.
But at times it does become...
It can be useful or for what have a reason to know another language.
Which have a language it is really.
At times we're not really expecting it as well but you might...
Some reason it might suddenly be useful to know that language,
in some sort of situation.
Yeah, Vince, I don't know whether you heard it or not,
but I was agreeing with you when I was over in Korea and over in Thailand.
The same way when I started to learn some of their language, they liked it.
What they were saying when I went to a Dutch training course in one of these language institutes,
it was annoying me that all the people were coming in and they were able to pick up the language and just move on.
And I was still stuck there with my learning, I am a dog, this is a dog, this is a cat type thing.
And they were saying, yeah, but these other people have learned to know the language
that their brain is already tuned to the possibility that the language structure can be different
and they probably already have a pool of words that have been shared in common with the two languages.
So even if you have a language that isn't used or you know that there is no resemblance,
your brain is still wired to the fact that there is a policy ability of another language
and it's more open to the fact of learning it.
I agree.
When did you suddenly just learn the language back?
Esperanto for the win?
Try it.
Never.
I didn't hear the question.
I just said Esperanto for the win, because I know that in fact it was you classier wasn't it?
There's a few updates on it.
Yeah, what they weren't ever actually intended for hacker public radio, so they don't count, but yes, I did.
I'm still studying it.
I guess I'm like everyone else, I just don't have anyone to practice with per se.
Although there is an IRC channel that speaks Esperanto, so I get a little bit of practice there.
Well, that's a beautiful thing, really.
That'd be even better, yeah.
I didn't want to throw in.
I would be really interested if anybody wants to do it and help somebody out.
A podcast on the restrictions and problems of somebody who, you know,
I know a lot of people learn English as a second language before they come into computing at all,
but somebody who comes in and encounters the command line and runs things like crap and aptitude and etc.
It makes no...
Well, not the crap makes sense to us, but aptitude, English words on the command line and it has to learn parts of English
understand the command line, not necessarily unix, but the DOS command line.
You know, I don't think that's anybody's current contributor, but some of the current contributors may know somebody
who have come to that point that they learned English as a defense to learn the operating system,
whether it's Linux or Windows or whatever.
I think I saw a following what you're saying, but yeah, that's something else, really.
I mean, by the fault of operating systems are in English as well.
Obviously, there are different languages you can have translations, but going to the command line, yeah, that's in English,
goes to programming language. I mean, yes, they're programming language, but again, they're partly in English, if you like.
So all bloody market languages, HTML, CSS, stuff like that as well.
You know, they've got English words in them as well, that's what I mean.
That's exactly what I meant. You get to that point. I mean, yes, you go to the Linux GUIT,
and there are, it's been ported in various distributions into probably every possible language.
But some point, if you're, you know, if you're going to be effective Linux user, you're going to drop down to the CLI,
and I don't think that gets translated.
Yeah, exactly. It doesn't, it doesn't. Same with programming languages. They are in English, aren't they?
No, that gets translated. Do you have any useful programs that, what, do they get translated?
Yeah, if you just change your environment and then run the command, it'll come back in different language.
Yes, and see the beauties of, I've got all the kids laptops or Raspberry Pis that if they log in, it's in their defaults,
languages, Dutch, everything changes. Also, if you do LS, the commands come back in, in Dutch.
You know, the filings are obviously the same, but they, if you change days, the, the dates come back in Dutch.
Okay, yes.
Even Chinese, which isn't still the interface though, but that's not the programming language.
I mean, like, for example, most programming languages have a print, print is an English word.
Correct, correct, yes.
There is no, yeah.
Yes, I can get that list.
LS is instead of saying lists in English, so you sort of type that in, so you're kind of using English there as well.
Not the best example, but yeah, what I mean.
Okay, your input is still in English, if you like, or kind of thing, right?
Your output is going to be in Dutch, that's basically what I'm saying.
Yeah, the strings are translated, but yeah, it's what 5150 was saying,
that the people writing the programs, you know, for I and whatever, it's, it's very Englishy.
Well, that is exciting, though, that there, there's a Dutch version of CLI.
Yeah, it's pretty cool, actually, it's, what, what was cool about it actually is...
I forget the redneck version.
The English that's been bastardized, though, isn't it, because if you look at the word color,
the way the English spell it with the U and the way the Americans spell it without.
So the programming language is, yes, it's English, but it's American English.
Yeah, that's, that's something else I noticed.
It's these language, yeah, there's exactly what you said there.
HTML, the old center tag, for example, it's spelled the American way, not, not our way,
and it samples like that, so there's that as well.
So there is an English, but the programming language is, but actually, but it's in American English, not British English.
And then you get fun things like refera, where they actually...
Yeah, they were part of English, exactly.
Refera, which is actually typoed when they wrote the HTML specs.
So it is forevermore, incorrectly spelled.
And you can go to, like, the PHP website, and it will say you use this command to get the refera,
and yes, it's spelled wrong, but that's because in the original spec it was spelled wrong.
So they spell it the same way that the spec is, but it's spelled wrong.
Yeah, also, something else.
Well, it's one such language as I've just thought of it again.
I mean, the more dear people, a lot of them are friends, because...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But, so let's take the founder of the board, for example.
Every time she's typing on IRC, or on an email, or whatever, and I see it,
I'll take you as an example, but it's not just her, it's a lot of them, they're a lot of the friends.
Type in American, English, not English, English, and I find that a bit annoying at times, but how it is.
Even if France is so close to Britain as well.
Well, does anybody live together to be in our time show?
We did.
Yes, I do.
There was an episode on type setting where they were talking about...
I guess, really, it's that most of them.
E's and S's are added to the end of the level.
The underlying ones, the lower level ones, actually were created by Americans.
I mean, you could draw a lot of origins back to C, which were Richie and...
I can't remember their names now, but you get the idea.
They're currently a couple of Americans.
Yeah, Richie and Kernigan, that's the one.
So Richie and Kernigan, what are you saying?
I think that's a problem with the Android client.
Not letting Vince here, whoever was talking, they need to switch over to Kelt.
Yeah, I think you just know how to do that.
Is it another Android client?
I can check that out right away.
No, no, no.
You're good by the fact that you are using the only thing you can use.
But the people who are talking, if they're on speaks, then you can't hear them.
Because you just actually, you don't know this, but you just spoke over someone totally, like, just clobbered them.
But it wasn't your fault, because you couldn't hear them.
Oops, sorry about that.
Not a problem.
Hey, um, are you, uh, Vince, are you on a draw?
Yeah, Samson Galaxy S2 running, say, anage in mod 10.1.
Dude, man, do you have any chance of getting in touch with Kevin?
Because there's, uh, MP3 feeders annoying.
I've been trying to get onto his machine, but I can't get on there.
And, uh, he said he was going to send me some details, had to get on there again,
because something changed, but I can't get on there too.
I've been trying to email him, but, uh, maybe he's asleep.
I'm not sure.
Ken, what we did, what we did earlier was just move out to where the feeds were moving,
like, out to the root directory or whatever you call it, the root channel.
Yeah, that worked fine.
Okay, if you want to do that, that's fine with me.
We can, I can move everybody out there.
Yeah, let's just do that.
We can, we can all double click.
We know how to do it now.
And where we go.
And the race is on.
Just right now.
I'm doing it.
Yeah, okay.
Oh, man, I wanted to see who was left in the other room.
It's going to be verbal.
Oh, let's be verbal over there.
Wait, Vince, no, it's going to be Vince.
He moved to the wrong one.
Oh, darn it.
Oh, no, there he is.
He's back now.
Okay, thank you, because that was getting very annoying.
Am I in the, am I in the fight room?
Yeah.
Yeah, put everyone where they ought to be.
I didn't, I didn't move, just so many moved me in the fight room.
Yeah, I moved to the room.
Yes, the big, the great hand of HPR is caring for you.
Taking care of you.
Don't panic.
All you need to do is record your life.
Take care of the rest.
Can I have that taken care of me like all the time?
Because I, I kind of need it sometimes.
Yeah, but we'll pick up rent and everything.
No worry about it.
On that topic, just coming back from the ice box.
I know that I should have gotten the, on the workstation
and dining room because it's getting more and more difficult
to work my way back from the kitchen to the, to, to the workroom.
Jesus.
What are you drinking, 50?
Ah, 211 steel reserve.
And I've gone back to coffee.
Whatever inspired you to get away from coffee in the first place.
But what are you eating with your coffee?
That's what I want to know.
We already came back to food.
Yeah, we've done this.
The recurring theme of this whole show has been food.
I missed out that I wasn't here when you were talking about food.
Come on, recap somebody.
The three times we've talked about it.
I was three or three.
Food and dairy cows, yes.
So we have the list.
What I'm looking at you guys talking about.
Do you remember a story about eggs frying on a sidewalk somewhere?
That's all I remember.
Well, the paleo conversation from yesterday morning.
The whole paleo diet.
We're talking about peppers at one point.
What about my missing little peppers from the supermarket discussions?
And then the vegetables and roasting them on a kebab.
Can I cut you?
I missed that.
That was a good one.
Pouring on a grill.
Got a soak it.
Long time first.
And I wanted to throw in you guys had, I've had tomatillos.
Really hot ones.
Oh, set acidic ones at least.
Yeah, those, those are pretty good.
They've got to lift the top of your heads off.
No, not about that.
Tomatillos are green tomatoes.
The small green tomatoes.
They're not hot peppers.
Well, no, it's a different species.
It's not a tomato.
But it is like a green tomato when you use it in cooking.
Okay, but they're not hot, like spicy, right?
At all.
I mean, the ones I've had are just, they taste almost exactly like tomatoes.
Well, they're, they're very acidic compared to the tomatoes we're used to here.
Spicy.
They are not spicy.
They're very low-capses in index.
Yeah, there you go.
Yeah.
Your green chili is tomatillo based, usually not, not just green peppers.
We've seen tomatoes in Britain.
You see tomatoes and I see tomatoes.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Wait.
What's the difference?
It's all the same to me.
Thank you.
Somebody knows it.
Yes.
I'm not as young as I look, I guess.
Yeah, you look really young from here.
Sporksaber.
Yeah, that's fun.
You're worth the interesting thing.
Now, that's a navy comment.
By the way, we often don't community news for last month.
I don't want to do it now.
What shouldn't that be next Saturday?
You are, of course, correct.
Thank you.
How do you cook those, 50?
Well, I put them in a lot of stuff.
There's, oh, with heat.
There is this African recipe that I like with chicken and, you know, and vegetables.
It's couscous from, oh, couscous from Sierra Leone.
You might be able to find it on cook.com.
But it needs, it needs a little more than what's in there.
Well, I throw a little wine into it because that is, would probably not be approved by the originators of the recipe.
But, you know, vegetables, I find, if you find the frozen vegetables, it's the Normandy blend.
That is just like absolutely perfect.
I throw the tomatillos in there, you know, and garlic and stuff, and a little bit of, and I could probably find,
because the base recipe is just a little bit bland, but it's good.
What's the difference between couscous and polenta?
Probably work was invented.
Yeah, quietness.
Yeah, I think people are looking at the recipe and starting to drool or something.
I was trying to find ways to do that.
I was wondering if the meal came out.
I posted that little thing.
Oh, you're booking up again, that's a shame.
Welcome, Peter 64, back for your second appearance.
Peter!
Peter!
Welcome back.
More like four for fifth.
I found the recipe I posted into the mumble chat, like I said.
This is a little more spice, but that's the basic recipe.
I do that two or three times a year.
From cooks.
Yeah, the one for cooks.com.
Here's talking recipes again.
You're going to make me hungry again.
We just had the conversation about why the heck does this thing go to food all the time.
Yeah, that's what you said.
We went and left last one.
Why do you got to put the barbion?
Most important topic.
We went and missed out, so we had to reintroduce them.
So, have you sprained on from the start?
I'll take a paki still here, is he?
Nope.
Nope.
I haven't been able to stop that being a member for quite a long time now.
Paki, you're a big, bloody, sheer luck.
Wait till I see you.
But quite the you've been on since the start, haven't you?
Yeah, the official start.
I don't know.
There was some weird sort of start before the start that I missed out on,
I didn't know about it.
I wasn't invited to that start.
Well, you're not cool enough, that's the problem.
He's from another realm, and he doesn't need sleep.
Holy shit.
5150's been drinking again.
Is that all he's been drinking?
Wow.
I see.
You're a shotgun.
You and this are webs, you just get a room together.
They're thinking.
It's a pizza web game up three hours ago.
It took all of five seconds' worth of talk from 50 for him to figure that out.
That was awesome.
What is now?
How do you use this?
So have you actually got a list of subjects to talk about?
How did Clotter, you were like in the organization of this?
Did you just have a list of topics or did you just make up shit as you went along?
No, we had a list of topics and all the people who showed up,
pretty much showed up exactly on time as scheduled.
We sent everyone a call sheets, of course, and gave them their lines.
I guess they probably memorized them to make them seem more natural.
Overall, I think the production went pretty well.
Zoke was a little bit late, but other than that, everyone else did okay.
I'm not reading any of this.
Clotter did a really good job of grilling.
I mean, interviewing some of the subjects as they came in, too.
Clotter, you had the undesirables.
I have to admit, I was a little skeptical of our four men.
I thought I would come in and find, you know, and I didn't get in.
I set my alarm for 5.45 and didn't get up.
It was a little after six for a join, so it was ten minutes after the thing officially started.
But I thought there would be two or three people.
And then it's like, man, full page, full people.
It's been like that all day.
So, you know, congratulations, HPR, and affiliated shows,
and everybody dropped in because, man, we've kicked ass all day long.
It has been awesome, and the HPR first HPR show from the New Year show has already been posted.
No, that is hilarious.
So the first episode from this session has already been posted before this session has even ended.
That's pretty crazy.
I'm imagining the second right now.
There's like 30 some odd people in here at now.
How many people were in here as far as the maximum?
Anyone find out?
I think we saw 42 or 43 for a while.
We might have got to like 45 or 46, totally.
I think about 50 people, something like that one stage.
Nice.
Yeah, they are.
I see an odd past planet.
I think it didn't quite hit 100.
I think I saw it at 97.
Did anyone say they have a 97?
But that's still pretty good.
Yeah, I think door paid for 100 for the whole day long.
Can somebody remind me to reimburse door for that, please?
Well, there's definitely a PayPal link on the...
Yeah, on the Linux basic site.
I think it would be who everybody to go click on that.
Absolutely, folks.
And that's not just the guy in the chat right now.
That's everybody listening.
You're getting the benefit of this great open forum for so many podcasts.
So get up off your wallet and do something.
Glad, Vince.
Oh, I was just asking if door is the guy from podnets.
I listen about 70 different podcasts, so I get a mixed up.
No one does about 60.
So...
Yeah, sure.
He's a bloody deep deep deep.
Yeah, if you say is door the guy from X fill in the blank,
you're...
No, he's essentially getting it.
More likely to be accurate than not, but yeah.
Podnets is...
Well, now it is door.
It used to be Steve Chirabino.
One of men.
It's being transferred to door.
So Linux basics, Android app addicts,
and a bunch of others.
You know, Linux for the rest of us definitely.
That's...
That's door and Steve Chirabino.
And the rest of us not involved in actively being...
being a participant, he's active in...
behind the scenes and editing and et cetera.
So, yeah, doors to the guy you mean.
And welcome crayon.
And just before we welcome crayon, can I just...
say that we were three minutes away from a time zone.
Also...
So we...
want to point out that's a tank...
a tank dog and the guy is over a bin rev for doing a pain for everything.
With relation to Hacker Public Radio's website.
And also the guys at Lunar Pages for...
not only the Hacker Public Radio website, the domains...
and the bin rev domains, Hacker Media.
But also for the VPSs that they've provided to us.
And also for the...
Linux and the Shell hosting that as well.
So, big shout out to those guys.
Thank you guys.
And also all the product placement sponsors we've had...
for this show that they've been really great.
You guys are talking like the show's over.
It's still like an hour ago, isn't it?
No, there's three minutes.
It's crayon.
You showed up for the last three minutes.
Does the NGPR page still say there's an hour left?
That's the hour until the end of the hour.
Times on hour.
Time.
I see.
Two hour things a bit.
One hour and one minute.
There's two hours, isn't there?
Two hours in a bit.
Two hours and two minutes.
I'm not sure why.
I heard somebody earlier say the time is wrong.
Well, yeah.
From when the time zones...
all time zones.
So, the last time zone 10 to 2013 is...
just doing it in a few seconds.
There's going to be a pretty long ride there, right?
So, I thought there was going to be an hour left.
So, I came to talk for the last hour.
No, that's fine.
Yeah, there was a cool show.
You can sit on the crayon with 5150 in talk, right?
Yeah.
Get some safety out of it.
Anyone going to post the last time zones?
I am also...
I accept the nations too, by the way.
Here's a 24 hour post show.
Twenty seconds.
Fifty five seconds.
Four, three, two, one, zero.
Happy New Year!
In America, some of our grandήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήήή
my time so right I mean it shows another hour should be another two hours shouldn't it yeah
I thought it was two hours but it's just under two hours now
right right did you do the did you do those calculations within the last hour
I thought I didn't I didn't move like dang globe sport
how is he told us a UTC plus 14 that's what I don't get I think that's what through us all
the first one is Samoa UTC plus 14 that doesn't count right UTC is the time zone we're going
from UTC to UTC so whenever UTC 12 that's when the HPR show is over and that's what
well and that's two hours left in that case because that's something that should not be allowed
I'm banning UTC plus 14 okay so it's time and date it says American Samoa Midwell and
um a lovely midway all that uh for 58 minutes remain you know no one's even heard
time and date dot com until the day and now we're like living our life by them come on time and date
so it's been a month and time in the day yes says you two hours the change dates on the 29th of
December 2011 and they jumped on outside of the bloody um international date line so they've
already celebrated that bloody 22 hours ago 2021 yeah yeah well 22 days they've been told
it's a 57 minutes time so two three two three three three three three yeah that's one time
so it'd be fast or something well I think you're going to send a surveillance copter over there to see
when when they set off the fireworks now they should come tell you they celebrated an
error two hours before us so if you're doing UTC when it's 12 right so that's GMT put into time
that's just that's just under two hours in that case because it's only 10 just come past 10
so basically we have no clue what's going on so now there's one more time so we're going to do
this thing until there's one one more time to go and it's not my fault if the day has suddenly
turned into $25 how's that means I'm here for the lost out yes you are well done all the last year
I can always start a recording when you all you guys leave and that was the top of your
hour lost your show it has to be said by the way 50 Steve Chair Bino doesn't do that show anymore
it's Cody he doesn't at all no it's Cody Cooper okay I get I'm not caught up
I love to pass out somewhere it's not Linux for the rest of the time it's for all of us
I like it yeah I like how the crown just debated his way into an extra hour in the day
well if that's when reality doesn't suit you you modify reality to comply
hey whatever you say that works you did it and this is where you find out that I run time and
date.com well if you did it always be a day ahead well it's something that he's upside down so
let's me a day backwards oh wait he's in Australia oh no never no wonder yeah that's my time's
all messed up around here you know we we I think we've got a without uh mentioning running over
the pistol cliff well we almost won a day without a thank you 50 well by God we're taking
the rest of the world with us usually happens let me wish everybody a very happy new year
happy new year everybody happy new year everybody happy new year happy new year happy new year happy new year
happy new year and to everybody a happy new year was that pre-recorded and God bless us everyone
I was looking at too and to all a good night
I thought we were gonna get that as a keyboard someone's doing that as a keyboard early when they yeah
that sounded like a theorem in though actually so that was kind of cool yeah that was that was
excellent we should do that one for the for the very last uh you know when we cross it by which
would be two hours and well no less than two hours two hour and uh 54 minutes by my calculation
53 but okay don't argue with him I'm going
so what what topics are still remaining is everyone's done religion and politics yet
cool yeah that's what I was about to say we haven't covered food properly yet
I don't know from the bits I heard there was some food dog I think religion and politics was
basically done just well properly just before I turn that pussy like that
I think we knocked that stuff out like in the first hour or two yeah first I think in the first
three hours somewhere in there what about apple and Microsoft fashion oh good lord that was
half the show what about Bitcoin we had a mention of Bitcoin but we did not like have an argument
about Bitcoin yet it's still awesome the end we were waiting on Peter to show so we actually have
a real proper talk about Bitcoin bloody Bitcoin so who here is something from Silk Road not me
I think that have a look at it but you've got to install that tour don't you which I actually did
once what you use Google music you can't understand them because he's from Australia it's not his
fault that is that plenty of practice say yeah I'm curious I can help yeah we're thinking you
you buy that tricopter on tour I don't know I'm gonna actually do it that's my new use resolution
to buy something on bloody to Silk Road by drugs on Silk Road and I'm gonna do it with crayons
Bitcoin you still got one haven't you buddy yeah yeah one to me cool oh yeah one to work now
like six bucks or nothing it was three bucks a couple weeks ago no it was it was like
14 US dollars when I last check until he's 23 that genius gone down again yeah
yeah I think your goal should be to hack flying flying riches Walt
translation anybody that was uh I share first it's for first of all does anyone speak 50 and 50
yeah if it's a web's any like I know you speak 51 50
I'll speak slower I said your goal should be to hack flying riches Walt
50 that's what problem is so southern accent um so does anyone speak 51 50
I still didn't understand mean either 51 50 doesn't speak 51 50
the worst thing is I could understand every word you said it just didn't make any sense at time
well think it into think to you need to understand is cat lawn mower fridge uh ice cube
be it do our baby we're giving you a hard time actually so see we should be picking on 51 50
we should be picking on soak yeah what do you have in your body god with me yeah
yeah as Mrs. Zayk and little Zayk down
little Zayk is now taller than me he clocks in the well that's your two shoes on
so much damage
it's uh this is perfect to do in fact no i'll tell you what you have in your team
that's it right um Zayk you don't say on any bit of the memory used to do
then we trace your connections just as bad
silent yeah probably but that that wasn't Mrs. Zayk who was on wasn't it
yeah i'm here
ah get out we can do a thing along with the circuit in another 45 minute
drinking oh sorry
you didn't say a single I did a single long already my sister at the bar tonight it was fun
so do you speak 51 50 Mrs. Oak
uh parts of it
i don't even bother to smuggle home i so i'm fluent in all kinds of strange things
damn it i can't possibly be that damn bad i heard damn bad they're just messing with you
yeah we're just teasing you 51 50
just go have another beer good night everybody that i'll do you getting out of here run
yeah it's not a nice talking to you sport guy i'm talking to you in a few weeks
yeah we'll talk to you over there
uh well about a quarter after five or eleven after five
wow good morning good morning and good night good night red
and good night 50 and good night you feel good i hope you feel better in the morning
but i don't think you're gonna i feel fine now i have to do that
yeah but a few hours from now you might not
i have to take some medicine myself
have anyone take the right answer sister and lightly or not
he was here really bad i thought yesterday he yeah he was in there yesterday late at night
see now i know you can understand me how long is it sorry you had a beer
see i didn't understand that
one hand on the speak to talk on the other hand on the the can
yeah he might have gone now passed out with keyboard i'm still here
okay stop written on uh on 51 50 we love you 50 we really do
what else would they do kid i mean they they have nothing else to do this time of night
it's early morning there's loads to be doing there's shells to be put up
there's shells to be edited yes
beat just to be walked along it's late it's morning here now
late it's morning happy late it's morning um can i just wanted to say i'm just going through
my email now and i see that you were trying to get in touch with me um a few days ago sorry
about that i was sort of uh with going camping i was um yeah out of reach for a while there
at the most unopportunetime i'm sure but uh anyway i guess things sort of you're dead to me
on your dead to me see i thought crayon camping was like camping like you were in the channel
camping i didn't realize it was camping like you were in the woods camping yeah now i was literally
yeah literally in a tent moment a part of him being in the tent and going out to his
relations didn't you get 51 50 and this and i know you were sober for that well i mean i thought
it was camping like you were in a game camping you know like with a rifle and and uh you know
that kind of camping i didn't know it was camping literally in the real world excuse me
yeah occasionally um go to go out to the real world i don't like it very much but
once a year i venture out the front door and and yeah i i'm now really burnt because my
skin's not used to the sun so and crayon don't feel bad about can uh saying that you're dead to him
he's still pissed off that you had an extra hour to show yeah that's understandable yeah
yeah my dad's roommate my dad we coming home this week but uh freaking me out this week is like
you got a tan it's like it's the middle sun it's the middle winners and he said well man you
got high blood pressure well i probably should but i never have uh so i'm looking
when i'm in the mirror saying man do i do i look like i have high blood pressure you know
uh you don't look like you have high blood pressure to me i was gonna say we can tell so well
over the audio stream how you you look like you have high blood pressure look fine do a lot
so you know all you guys playing with me is not helping
so so we've picked on 50 we've picked on uh anyone from australia is anyone we haven't
we did a pretty good job on on caught two earlier we just got to pick somebody
sport sport we haven't done anything to sport oh you could tell me to post my damn shows but
haha already did that what show do you have sport pod brewers
ah yes yes yes sorry yeah didn't Ken didn't you reject those because you didn't want to get
possibly they're off your band get off somebody kick him
hello there are some nice beers over here that's to be said yeah very nice for the
Mr. Beer and Ken's basement there are actually the friend of mine was really into uh brewing and
stuff and brought me down to a shop and we just loaded up the back of a of an estate first station
where i can as you call it with the crates and crates of really really good beer and if you're
only going to have one beer a month then it should be a good beer no doubt Ken was at you um all right
24 years ago there was a picture of a bloke sitting around a table with a bunch of computers in
the microphone was that you no that was a coronomonal auntie's lovely wife that's my husband
who's just joined us good morning good morning yes man welcome back hey felt
oh hey you told us what that Ubuntu thing was all about no you're sharing me what was it
no we're asking you we feel you went out and figured out what it was about oh no I've
We thought Pope he was joining the coming from IRC into the channel to speak to you
just as when we went to bed last night. Yeah, actually he did.
I'll explain. It's a it's an operating system. It's based on it's a Linux distribution and crap.
Yeah, it's based on Debbie and I think. Yeah, yeah, yeah, based on Debbie.
Okay, so you didn't grill him out enough, obviously.
We tried we tried every trick we knew and he just wouldn't wouldn't give up the info.
He said something about losing his job. Yeah, and he's only just got it.
Did anyone? I might be appropriate this time
to say hello to some of the people. I don't recognize in the chat been sitting here.
And I apologize if I do not appropriately pronounce these names.
Jack O'Loskey, J. News Center. I know who that is.
Larson, uh,
C. And I know who verbal is. We have I don't know if we've heard from him in a bit.
That that's probably all the ones I don't know, but uh, please uh, feel free to jump in if you
haven't today. You know, you think with the name like anybody's trying to thought.
You think with the name like verbal, he'd actually be more talkative.
What ever happened to verbal, what a podcast he used to do.
It's still out there, J. News.
Hey, that's the money. Yeah, you're gonna put it out of here. I think you're well, what was it? Linnix?
Linnix questions or something? Linnix quiz. Yeah, Linnix quiz.
Linnix quiz. Yeah, Linnix quiz.
Linnix trivia. Linnix trivia.
Oh, Linnix trivia. Oh, Linnix trivia.
Linnix trivia. Oh, Linnix trivia.
Oh, Linnix trivia. Oh, Linnix trivia.
That'll be new year, everybody.
Thank you, Philip. So what's your plans for the year? What, uh, what, what, what, what's, what's
everybody's plan? Do you have a plan? Does it really matter?
It's just another day, I suppose.
Well, Becky and I are starting our new year by going to the beach.
We're going to walk along the seafront at Skegnes, is it Skegnes?
Maybe we'll thought. Maybe we'll thought down at Skegnes. Skeggy!
Yeah. I've got some family from Lincolnshire, so I've been to Skegnes a few times.
And in fact, um, for a while, my cousin had a poster that said it was like a fake Skegnes poster,
uh, fake mabelful poster. And um, it said Skegnes is fucking shit.
Paid for by the mabelful, um, tourist board or something.
That has nothing to do with anything, but I just found it funny.
Yeah, to be honest, it's not brilliant, but it's quite nice on new year's day.
I think we've been doing it for a couple of years now.
Just to go down, walk, we walk all the way from a mabelful to somewhere else and then
get some fish and chips and then walk back and take the dog with us.
And it's just a nice day out.
It's some scheduled thought where the seal sanctuary is down to mabelful up and then
sometimes on Skegnes, but yeah, get fish and chips and then come back again.
I wonder if anyone else is thinking about new fitness or exercise for the new year.
I was thinking about starting to learn boxing.
I think about it all the time, I just never do it.
That's what I was thinking.
Boxing is supposed to be really good for you.
Yeah, that's what I heard.
Getting into the other guy.
It depends if you're any good, I guess.
Yeah, it's supposed to use a lot of energy when you're boxing, don't you?
It's, um, get yourself one of those big, what they're called, boxing bags.
That's it.
Get one of those.
That's why you do that.
Laying dog for about two minutes, flat out.
I bet you can't do it.
Yeah, I was just looking online to get one of those and trying to work out what weight, you know,
want to get my seven-year-old son into it because he has way too much energy.
There's an app for that.
Yeah, it really helps him.
Well, you could do a rocky and string one of your cows up.
How we do that?
I don't even know whether to check the number of the Czech society for the branch
and the cruelty to animals number.
I could tell you the contact for the cruelty to humans number, if you want.
What about you, Ken?
What have you got planned for the new year?
Oh, I've saw many things planned.
First thing to do will be drill the four holes that I need to finish off these shells
that are right above, but I'd want to drill them because it's on the same circuit that all
the machines are for this thing.
So that will be thing number one.
Thing number two will be a moving the larger to moving the computer room,
which is currently under the stairs,
converting that into a larger.
I also need to fix, again, disc number four on my aisle sand drive.
So I think a sand store, which is a NAS,
which does the NFS mounts to everything.
So that kind of needs to be repaired.
But in order to do that, I need to give my r-sinks to my old servers backup and running.
Then I need to pair down the amount of software that I've installed on the kids' computers
because I installed all the games recommended in the Raspberry Pi magazine
onto their Raspberry Pi's.
And I'm going to strip that down because there's far far too many games on there
for them to even just get completely lost.
So I'm just going to do that.
Then those machines will be connected via another Raspberry Pi,
which will be running a squid proxy and an IP firewall,
which will allow them to some shares on the NAS,
but will not allow them out to the internet at all,
except perhaps to certain sites, probably not though.
And then I want to put in another Raspberry Pi
as my front end firewall and a firewall and general SSH tunnel terminator
so that I have automatic redundancy and failover if one of them fails.
So I'll put in heartbeats and that sort of thing on there.
Then I have the XBMC project when the shelves are up.
My wife can move into the backroom with her computer,
which is also going to hit my widescreen.
So I'm going to configure yet another Raspberry Pi
to the back of that one on XBMC, which will act as a source from the NAS.
And I'm going to run on yet another two Raspberry Pi's TV head end,
one which will be using a $10, $15 DVB T card,
which picks up the five free-to-air channels in the Netherlands.
It will use TV head end or a DVB blast
to blast those across on the network.
So as a multi-cast stream,
which the XBMC hopefully will be able to pick up and play with.
And I've also got here in my hand a USB digital satellite TV tuner,
which will connect to the satellite dish, which I have up on the roof,
which connects to the Astro 2D satellites,
which coincides to be the satellite where the BBC and the ITV
are broadcast and the clear.
And we can get all those channels here as well.
So I can redistribute those internally on the network for IP.
And then I also want to work on getting the Linux link.nes.
That is that's pretty much it from technology point of view right now here in the house.
I've got a whole goal of old computers that somehow just appear here.
When my friends and family get new computers,
they give me their old ones for some reason, I don't know why.
So I'm going to go through a process of an external hard disk
tray thing, which doesn't work on drives over one turbine, by the way,
or three turbines, by the way, but those work on drives underneath that,
which isn't a problem for these because they've got 40 gig drives on them.
So I'm going to back all those up and bring them down to the recycling center.
And what else?
Yeah, tidy up this room a little bit, but that's kind of hard work.
During the year, I'm going to clean out the shed and get rid of all my work tools
and get some proper work tools, but just better quality ones and just keep them in the basement.
So I don't have to go to the shed all the time.
And I'm debating whether to give the shed to the kids so that they can play it as a little playhouse
or whether just to plug it for somebody.
I'm not really 100% sure on that.
So I'm going to raise a ear then.
And sometime by that end of the year, you're going to edit a very, very long podcast.
No, no, no, we'll be recording a podcast.
That's just as by the way, we still have loads and loads and loads of shows that I still need to do.
And I know people have been procrastinating about
and they've wanted to do a show for HPR and they haven't sent it in or they promised to do a show.
Don't worry about it because I still have a show that I promised to do for
TWAST Tech Radio before TWAST Tech Radio started.
And that was in 2005.
And it's entitled how to point a satellite dish still haven't done that one.
So procrastinators, beware, just send something in.
And as far as HPR goes, we've got the ID tagging thing to do.
We still have the upload form to do, which
Epicanus is working on.
Cardaminal, I said, Epicanus is working off.
Hello.
Yes, I was talking about Epicanus is working on an upload form, not to be confused with.
Yes.
Oh, okay.
The joke.
Adam, say once more, Ken.
It's Epicanus, not Epicanus.
Epicanus.
Thank you, Becky.
Yeah, Ken, you seem quite the Raspberry Pi fan from what you were saying.
Melody's Raspberry Pi, which makes me wonder actually who else has got Raspberry Pi here?
If anyone.
Can I just put this duck out and say happy new year to everyone.
The beach is calling us.
So my fish and chips, happy new year, everyone.
And say, I'll catch you soon.
Happy new year, everybody.
Happy new year.
See you in the morning.
See you.
I'll tell you.
Trio.
Peter Six.
I'm four.
I've had one for a long time and honestly,
of nothing to do with it.
And then I did because we had Jeff Hooglin on the show the other day.
I could bloody voting on it.
And I thought, yeah, I might make it like to put an emulator on it and just make it
games, thing maybe still, I might play with it.
But then I have no idea the other day.
And I've decided what I'm going to do is I've got a weather station coming.
And I'm going to hook it up to a weather station and have it pump data up onto the internet.
So we can retrieve it from the golf course.
So is that going to be my project?
Does it go in work?
He's actually my boss from my boss.
He's boss now.
He's got a pie and he's using a USB transmitter to connect over that
you know, clap-on, clap-off thing.
I don't know if you guys are familiar with that.
Yeah, there's a 14, sorry.
I'm getting them to do an episode on us.
This is a simple USB connector.
And you can buy the whole golf peripherals.
At least in the Netherlands that these remote control weather stations can talk to.
And then there's a whole pearl-based application suite that can interface with that.
But stay tuned into HPR for a complete episode on that.
Yeah, that's what I was reading about.
Yeah, the blake wrote some pie script that pulls it all down and then he's got
charts and everything on his site where you can see what it's been like the last week,
month, and 24.
Yeah, whatever.
Yeah, it's just this stuff you can turn on.
If you've got it enabled in the house, you can turn on like a particular time, turn it off.
You can turn on a fan in the bathroom.
If the differential between the outside and the inside wall temperature
would be giving conditions to condensation, it would turn on the bathroom fan.
Maybe I'll buy a Raspberry Pi this year.
I don't know quite.
I mean, they're cheap, but then you've got to get all the like color stuff for them,
it seems.
Oh, if you don't really have it, you know, and it's kind of like what would you use it for, and all that.
But a lot of people go on about them and all that.
So, yeah, maybe.
Yeah, I've been for years.
I've been interested in low power computing, right?
And right in front of me is like a graveyard of machines that I've purchased
with that in mind.
And now the Raspberry Pi is common.
You can actually do this.
So, like, for example, taking an old LCD monitor, hooking up a Raspberry Pi to it,
and you know, having just like the dual Chombie concept with your little widgets,
showing you where the trains are, what the news headlines are, the RSS feeds,
an IRC channel text thing at the bottom.
Just when you come up in the morning, the screen would turn on with all the information,
you need to get yourself ready for the day.
I was actually thinking of using my netbook for that, one of my netbooks for that,
because I don't use them anymore, and I've got three of them.
Yeah, I thought that would be a reasonable use for one of them,
because I don't have a little LCD.
And you've never just for a, is to aspire one PC if somebody has one.
Yeah, I just, well, I want, I brought up the topic of netbooks last night,
but I want to talk about, I just got the A10 with the A8 ARM Cortex processor,
and I can't believe how small this thing is, but, you know, it just comes with this,
this Android thing, which is kind of like a corporate sponsored Linux.
But you don't have control over it, and, you know, so I want to bring that up,
but boy, did the discussion get here?
I could get worded edge-wise when it started.
Yeah, some discussions are like that.
You really try and get in, and you can't miss too many people saying.
But since you bought netbooks, I bought an ASUS EPC back in August,
so what's now last year, 2012, and apparently they made them anymore, saying that.
But, you know, it was like Windows 7 start edition,
and it's so light, it's like one kilogram, and excuse me, the bag is just so light, it's nice.
And then, I put, and then it's like, when I turned on, it's like,
oh, a switch option, that's not what's that.
I'm unable that, and it's the instant cloud operating systems, the ASUS,
the spreads gate cloud, which is just basically a basic Linux history with a nice interface,
and it's got chromium there, it's got the gloom, it's not this gloom too, really,
it's got gloom too games, and I thought, I thought, yes, this is all right,
but yeah, it was the instant chip on the operating systems I'd rather about, as well,
that's what it was, it's not on hard disk, but then I obviously put my,
when I sell out with my Geo2 on there, as well, that extra one, and so it's done that book,
it's quite nice, and I thought it was only 32 bit as well, but turns out 64 bit as well,
it can do, and also it's good enough to run the virtual machines, there was a guy at the
log with a Samsung laptop, and he was running the virtual machine on virtual box, and I thought,
thought mine wasn't good enough to do that, but it's, so that's good as well, and it's 64 bit as well.
Yeah, you're up a lot of points, I'm really impressed with this, is, first of all,
lightness in the form factor, it's literally like a pound, and it's comparable to my ebook reader,
and I literally have a legal pad holder, I get when I go to this meeting once a year,
and I stuck it in there as a case, and it's actually impersonating a pad of paper, I'm really
impressed with that, but you know, I've been talking about on my news program, the tech portion,
about how at least one major internet engineer is talking about the end of the Intel error,
and the starting of low power computing and on processing, so I wanted to be
experimenting with that, and you know, I'm not having any problems, and I have the whole thing
on a chip as well as having converted an old Pentium laptop, Pentium 4 mobile to using a CF card,
instead of a disk drive, and that just brought up my battery life, unbelievably.
You're sort of a disk drive, you mean the hard disk?
Yeah, we placed the hard disk in the Pentium 4 mobile with a CF card,
it's actually a device that convert a laptop's SATA to CF card, and then the CF card actually
looks like a disk on the inside to Linux, so you just do a regular install.
Okay, right, yeah.
The only thing with netbooks is, I mean, yeah, they don't have a CD to an optical drive,
and obviously, you know, you're sort of supposed to boot off USB sticks these days,
but that can be a bit of a hassle, or you don't have a USB stick that you want to put a distro
on, or whatever, possibly, so why aren't you buying a external CD drive for mine,
so it didn't make my problem for me, but...
I've had an episode on booting, setting up a Pixie boot if you want to go back into the
HBO archives for that, just for that very reason.
I wonder if that Pixie boot is specific to an architecture, because that's my question,
I would love to experiment with putting a regular distro on this thing, but
I have no idea how to get a bootloader of my choice onto an ARM cortex or whatever it is.
No, it'll boot, it'll, it should be able to boot.
That, sorry, I'm now actually thinking, depending on the BIOS and the thing,
if it is, if it does support Pixie boot, then yeah, it should boot.
The only thing is you need to configure it on the others on the server,
that it sends down the correct files, but you should be able to send a cross-architecture
files down without a problem.
Yeah, I want to know you know how to get into the BIOS actually, because it's not like a regular
laptop, it's not like, do I do the F2 thing, or I mean, what do I try to get into the BIOS?
Yeah, the BIOS, I just don't, just to sub just go with BIOS.
Only thing with my notebook is the BIOS, yeah, I mean, I obviously had to go in there and
make it so I could boot up my external drive, that was one thing, but another thing is,
it would, it would sometimes go back to, it would change the date to, it would just suddenly
change the date and time on me to like 2002, and I thought that's weird, and one time I
had some issues powering on I think, but in general it works fine, still does, but sometimes
it goes change, the date's fine, so not again the BIOS and changes myself, but it's kind of like,
if it's doing that to something non-technical, there would be kind of stuck with that date
probably for a while, but that was a bit odd, doesn't nice, works fine anyway.
Yeah, yeah, the, the, the thing I read in the fact for the same company that makes mine
makes these net top, desktop things, and they, they actually have that in the fact, and they say
it's because they don't have a battery that runs 24-7 on it, that, that, that, we said happens,
but yeah, I mean, as far as, you know, having a way of, of getting onto SSH from the road without
having to worry about the weight of the thing, because, you know, like I said, my, my,
heavy laptop as I call it now, always a ton, feels like it was a ton, it's great to just be able
to throw something in the car, and if, if I need to get on, I know I can with SSH, and that's
fantastic. Yeah, I know, it's, it's, it's so light, it's like, you just, I mean, I can,
just put it in a plastic bag, you know, or, or, and then normal bag, or whatever, it's just so light,
it's like, it's not even there, so when you're going about, about, about, it really is like,
there's no computer on your all, and you sort of feel like, is it still there? If you know what I mean,
if you're out and about. It's actually very handy on the train, because on the, I have, you know,
white screen laptop, and then you're bumping into the people next to you on the train,
and if you've got a small little notebook, you can kind of scrunch up, and just use it very
handily like this. I do miss my laptop, and I kind of accidentally broke the hard disk, and so,
fortunately, I'm laptopless at the minute. I've got like a really, I've got like a really old laptop,
from, I don't use any more, and so, but I've been using a desktop computer as my main computer,
and that's a few years old, so actually my netbook is now, in some ways, it's better than my desktop
computer, which I'm still using on my main computer, just because it's newer, but yeah, that
tops a little bit, they're a bit, you know, they're clunky, like you say, and you can, and whatever,
but in that book, it's just, well, I guess what you were saying, really, on the train, for example,
or if you bump into somebody, or it'll probably be okay, or whatever, yeah.
Yeah, mine has a 13 inch screen, so I guess it feels like I'm a regular-sized keyboard too,
but, you know, the width is normal, like I said, it's a legal pad-sized thing,
but it makes up for it in thinness, boy, but I would cherish that, with my situation,
this on-processor is actually a little bit slower than the Pentium mobile 4, that on my big laptop,
but, you know, like I said, it's light, and the form, the lightness, the lightness,
the lightness makes up for so much. Yeah, mine's 10 inch screen, and that's fine,
but it's actually a still lightness, it's just kind of amazing how, in a way, it's amazing how
you can have, like, a whole computer, we could have them to a laptop, really, in many ways,
a standard laptop, better small and all that, and it's just kind of amazing how you can have
that for so light, like we're saying. So do you think the end of the X86 might be near with
these slow-power computing options? Hey, me? Yeah, you and Ken, I mean, do you think, because,
I mean, the idea is, I mean, I understand that this is going to put pack a lot of servers into
a server rack, this on architecture, if it's ever really badly adopted, so, do you think it might
signal it a big paradigm shift, as they sometimes say? I think that's still going to be around
for quite a while. I think that's fine, I think that's happened in the last 12 months with
just smart fans and tablets these days. Yeah, it's going to say something like that.
It's netbooks, I've seen this sort of old as well, sort of 2009, if you like,
and BAS is apparently not making them DPCs anymore, however, so mine's really a 2011 model,
or what I've got, the cloud stuff is 2011, blah, blah. I got it last year, 2012, anyway,
but it's sort of like it is kind of about the tablets now, but I'll be thinking about tablets as
well, it's like, I don't have a tablet, I know about them and such, I don't have one,
but it's kind of like, I mean, really all there is a phone, isn't it, really,
a set without the phone features, and that's about the only difference, isn't it, really?
The thing is, over the Christmas period, I was done with my in-laws, and two things I noticed,
one was the amount of Apple products that are out on the market right now and the people
have bought into, and secondly, I was using an iPad to get some guitar tabs, so I used an iPad for
that. I wanted to see what it would be like in a tablet, whether it'd be worth buying a tablet for
to do what I intend to do. Oh, yeah, Apple products on the market, yeah, I've just thought of it again,
when I was watching, let me finish on this if you don't mind, and two things I noticed about
that one was, it was impossible, incredibly difficult to do anything with the tablet, websites
was difficult, it was difficult to type, it was difficult to send an email, and also I felt
bought this, you know, in the Apple store thing, we spent two bucks on this program, and then it
wasn't designed for the tablet, it was just like a fake an iPhone-y size, and the whole point
of the whole point that I wanted to buy the app was to see what it would be like, because I have
purchased that app on my Android, it gives you, you know, guitar tabs for songs, and I wanted to see,
oh, well, you know, if I do get an X7 or something, well, what's it going to look like in a tablet,
so I buy the app on the iPad, and it's suddenly this pissy little thing with a big black,
big black rim around it, and if you do two X, you've got this really fuzzy looking,
fuzzy looking zoomed-in application in your face, I just felt really, really cheated.
Sorry, but my point here is that the iPad or tablets, you can't really call or do anything useful on them.
Well, yeah, yeah, you have a point there, anyway, what I was going to say is, you've seen
Apple products everywhere, for example, well, yeah, you see it before the iPods and stuff like that,
when you're out and about, but because this fits in the whole new year thing as well, so,
when I was watching the usual New Year's thing on BBC One, so Big Ben and Smidnight,
and then the fireworks, and people there in London, and I saw, when I went around the camera,
I saw these girls with their iPods or iPhones or whatever out, and I'm, so that fits in what you're
saying there, with how people have iPods and iPod phones. The other thing I was going to say is,
tablets, I don't think they can replace normal computers for quite well. I mean, yes,
they are getting quite popular. Same with phones, they can't quite replace the desktop,
and the latest thing is, these hybrid computers, isn't it? The tablet and any
but normal people there, isn't it? Yeah, I think the point of those things, I mean,
okay, let's talk about DeepGeek's point. I reckon Adam is going to take over from
Intel, that's kind of obvious, but the form factor really doesn't matter, you know, who more
and that more and that more and that please can. Well, that's it, Deep, they're going to take over,
it's as simple as that. I'll just from the PowerPoint and all that shit.
Yeah, well, they're going to take over and you're going to have specialized, you're going to
still have some specialized machines, but you're going to find laptops, shipping with ARM,
and it'll just percolate up through the entire infrastructure, but from my point of view here,
whether I work on my Raspberry Pi or whether I work on my shitty old HP laptop that's run
on Intel, it doesn't mean it doesn't matter, I'm doing the same thing. Cool, very cool. I mean,
you know, I mean, it's a fascinating thing to watch a paradigm shift, and I'm amazed,
you know, because we're going to see the kind of dead men walking attitude that we saw
by the BBS people toward the internet back in the day, I think.
But sorry, Frank Traver, do you want to say something? No, no, sorry, slip of the key.
Okay. The form factor, what I found interesting about the tablets is it's, to me, a compromised
device. What's funny about it, I just kind of laugh at this whole thing, because Microsoft
were the ones who came up with the tablets in the first place, and they're completely lost in that
market. Why are they? Why are they? Yeah, there were the, um,
Frank Traver, can you please configure push to talk?
Yes, I already have, I think. Okay, well, sorry, you may have it set to space bar. Some people
seem to say that to space bar and don't realize that when they press it, it does it every time
when they're typing something. Sorry, I'll have a look at it. Okay, thanks.
Yeah, well, with the Microsoft thing, I did hear they stored this thing. I also heard that
they're on this ultra mobile PC push they stored with the Windows CE. But, you know, I really
have to wonder, because I think Microsoft's finally gotten a dessert reputation. And I
wonder how many people would get involved with Microsoft at all these days, if they weren't,
if it wasn't being pushed at their place of work, on them by their corporate, I don't know,
overlords, I guess you'd say. I think they're, they're time are numbered, really, because you see
in, what I'm seeing in my workplace is more and more consultants coming in with Apple iBooks,
or whatever books they are. And, you know, if you get, it's only a matter of time that the
marketing folks can use Apple machines. So it's only a matter of time before the engineers go,
well, I want, I want one of those Apple machines as well. And, you know, then it switches over
and it becomes cheaper just to have a contract with Apple as opposed to having a contract with
Dell. The only difference is, of course, they're so much more expensive. It's very difficult to
justify it for businesses. Yeah, but the whole weird thing with, with it is, to me, I mean, you know,
I mean, I don't understand, like, I have a lot of friends who, who've replaced their computing
needs with their smartphones. And I don't understand fitting, fitting my usage pattern into
whatever OS came on a device. I can't wrap my head around that as a geek. It's really, really
strange. I mean, I guess, I guess we need nightwise here with this tagline to make the technology
work for you, not the other way around. Sorry, what's your point? You find this confusing to do
what? I find it confusing that people just, you know, say, okay, I got this notebook or I got this
tablet or I got the smartphone and whatever OS is on there is just fine by me. And if they say,
I have to use it this way. I use it this way. I don't care what software I run. I just take what
they push at me and I just don't. Do you have a washing machine? Do you have a washing machine,
Duke Geek? No, I don't. Do you have a dishwasher? No, I don't. Do you have a toaster? No, I'm not
very domestic guy, Ken. Okay, give me some second device that has some operating system in there.
Throw me a bone here, Duke Geek. I understand. Does my car count? Yes. How does the operating system
in your car? I drive a VW bug. I drive a Toyota and no, I don't, but boy, if I could, I would like to try.
Deep Geek, I have to say I cannot agree with you more. I 100% agree. And that's why every time
people are like, oh, Android great, it annoys me because I want a Linux phone and Android has
stopped that from happening really because people have just, you know, they're going to that
instead of, you know, Mavmo, MeGo and all that sort of stuff. I still love my in 900.
I know we've talked about this before, but yeah, and I was arguing the other side of the fence,
but now I'll fake it. Hey, you'll go over to page devil's advocate. Hey, we got to make
radio time. We've only got what 28 minutes left. But then you, okay, yes, Android in itself has
made phones, the Linux phone, but I don't think it has hindered it in any way. It still would not
have a fully Linux-based phone right now. Android gave the operators exactly what they wanted,
was a tie down, a tie down platform that they could deploy for free. And what it gives,
what the side benefit of that for us is all these devices now have got a stack that will run
in Linux and if you go to a hardware manufacturer and they don't, you're just buying the phone straight
off the shelf and you had a project just to buy a Linux phone. It's a lot easier now than it was
before to, you know, take a Android-based kernel and compile that and then build your stack
non-davic is a Stovic, a non-davic stack and top of that or a GNU stack and top of that.
So, but if that, whether you helped us, you may be right, but if that's true, then I have not,
if you know of a single Linux way and that's out there that's newer than the N900 tell me,
and I'll buy it in an instant, but I'm still waiting for the next thing.
Yes, but we were waiting a long time for the N900 and that came out of the blue as well,
but that was this Conquered projects within Nokia that would normally have never seen the
Logitech, except it was a tablet. I guess the way, and I know it's not exactly the same,
but it makes me feel like the idea of, you know, with software and making compromise. If you,
if you do, and I understand, you know, there's a lot of stake, I guess, in some cases, but if you do
make the sacrifice and say, well, this is good enough, it'll do and pay money, then you're voting
with your dollar to say, yep, that's what I want. And any, you know, the idea for me, it just,
it upsets me the idea of buying an Android device because that's me saying, yes, I like this,
and I want it when I don't like it and I don't want it. It's just that it's the, it's, it's the next thing.
But is the lesser of two-year-olds, surely, Kra?
Oh, absolutely, and that's what I'm saying. If I were to buy one, if I, if, if, and nothing,
if there's no Linux phone in another year or two, I may have no choice because the N900 is
really showing its age now, and I'm, I push it every day to try and get the most out of it, but,
you know, it's getting to the point where I really need more power.
If I may, um, you know, Kra, my heart goes out to you because I think we're on the same level here,
but, you know, we got, you just got to admit sometimes that sometimes there's certain things
you don't have control over. I mean, I would love to have a hardware device exactly built to my what,
to my way. The only way I can get this was my desktop. I do buy custom desktops and I can't go back,
but, you know, it comes to something like this, we just might have to admit to ourselves that,
uh, we're, we're, we're at the mercy of the market in a certain way.
As far as the Linux, the, the, the, the, the tied down kernel, I get a little bit of satisfaction.
I had to get SSH. I just had to and I got, uh, an app called Connectbox and found out that you
could actually use it to be a local shell into your own device. Uh, that might give you a little bit
of satisfaction at least, I hope. Well, my work allocated that, um, me a, an Android phone and,
yeah, I found that, but of course the problem with the Android, you know, system is that it's,
there's, that is the lack of control. That's one of my biggest problems with it. And so I find that,
for example, I can't even control what applications run on it. If you install it, it'll run whenever
it wants, whether you want it to or not. So what I've got is that file explorer thing I forget
with it. I just backup, um, I just backup all of my, uh, you know, all of the eight, you know,
the, the package files and then uninstall them and just install them whenever I want to use them.
And it's a real pain because you lose your configuration every time, which is a real pain in the
ass, but I can't find a way to stop them from running. It is. Yeah. Are you, are you rolling
sandwiching a module? I, on my work run, I'm not because that, I'm sure that would, uh, you know,
void the warranty or at least they would claim that it would void the warranty.
They, it was actually that that made me move to, um, uh, all the bloatware that was installed
the Facebook, the Twitter, all those horrible, horrible apps that was installed on my phone,
leaving me with absolutely no space to install my own apps. What concern, what concern me
with, with getting used to the, the Android was, um, I, I was actually very happy at mind ones,
a version four ice cream sandwich, you know, another ridiculous name. But, um, so I was very happy
that ice cream sandwich had proxy support because I said, you know what? I could like, you know, run,
you know, ad blocking through my, through my proxy. I have a proxy at home that is for acceleration
of the internet, um, because you can never get enough speed. Um, but what really shocked me,
and I kind of knew it was going to happen, but to see it was when the Android stock browser
checked in with Google servers, uh, without my consent, that kind of really pissed me off.
Folks, it is now one minute and thirty seconds away from the end of the hacker public
radio 2013 party extravaganza. I would like to thank everybody who has joined. I would especially
like to thank all the guys who helped put this together, who built the mirror network, Kevin,
Kevin Wischer, crayon, uh, Corbytoo, um, all the mirror people, whoops, push the talk, all the
mirrors, people's crayon, delinxlink.nes, uh, bite mark, uh, Delwin, uh, Corbytoo, uh,
Poppy in the UK, Bert, um, I'm sure I'm missing loads and loads and loads and loads of people who
have helped soundchaser, uh, 5150, um, who, and, uh, all the guys have been helping out in the room.
Um, it's been a fantastic, fantastic effort and obviously we will continue recording after
the show, but the official show ends in 24 seconds, 22 seconds. And for me, it's a big thank you.
Remember, I've just reset all the counters. So everybody owes me a show for 2013. Just one show,
one contribution a year, that's all you need. Nine, eight, seven, don't get that clad too,
my life credits. I'm of course not lucky. I didn't do anything, I just showed up.
You guys can get it. Sometimes that's enough, baby.
Happy New Year folks. Happy New Year, Happy New Year, Happy New Year.
Oh, that's nice. Oh, we got the best.
Oh,
join us now and share the software. You'll be free hacker.
Oh, my God. Stop and freeze the first arm.
Kick him off. Okay, I'm welcome.
All I'm will stop the recordings for a moment.
And welcome to Hacker Public Radio's New Year after party show.
Where's 5150 when you need him?
You too.
Oh, goodbye.
Guys, I'm going to check out.
Glad to all my best.
I'm going to go to New Year and I'm going to duck out as well,
because it's been fucking the morning and I hate to think how early it is for clad too.
So it's been fun. Take it easy and lots more shows in 2013.
Yep, everything he said for me too.
So, can I believe in that clad too?
So, Ken, I'm going to stand a few minutes more.
I got to begin getting ready for work,
but I don't want to leave up any loose ends,
so I just want to stick in for five more minutes.
Oh, I'll stand a bit longer as well.
Not a problem.
So, Ken, can I talk about my project stress?
Can I talk about?
Sorry, do you keep your say?
I just wanted if it was a cool place to change topic.
I want to talk while I had you on the line about my TGTM project a little bit.
Sure. Far ahead.
Can I just say Bitcoin $13.44 US cents at the moment?
I forgot to mention it earlier.
So, there you go. I've got $13.44 US cents worth of Bitcoin for Peter 64 to use on Silk Road.
Is that anything we can pull in this?
Thanks.
That's a nice one.
Yeah, I'm recording this.
Yeah, so, Ken, wow, I can't believe it.
Thanks to the volunteer efforts of Pokey and Bobo Beck's and Dan,
my little project TGTM news is going to be like a real freaking org with multiple people
working on it. I'm like, so thrilled.
It's cool, and the best news we don't have to listen to you, Wofflingon.
Oh, man, my voice must have been thrown to people by now.
It hurts, it hurts.
Well, oddly enough, I had a thing with where Pokey initially thought he could handle my
controversial world news selections and then realized he couldn't, so I'm going to actually have
them kind of specialized in the tech and leave the world stuff to my private feed, so
that should even help to give greater variety of voice to the main HPR channel.
I don't know why you just don't do the whole lot on to the HPR.
Well, you know, I'd like to, but I did the survey and actually the people who we
sponsored the survey were actually split over the issue of dumping the world news stuff,
and there was actually a split about whether or not it was appropriate for HPR.
So I said, I'd better leave things as they are.
Yeah, I'd say it's appropriate to each year because if anyone doesn't like it,
they submit their own show, fine by me.
Yeah, that's true, but you know what's really the nicest thing about is since I've been
back on HPR, is I really want to get back to doing some standalone tech shows, and so actually
having the help from the community is actually going to allow me to do that.
Yeah, that's good. Yeah, I need to do some tech shows as well, come to talk about that.
Yeah, well that's all I wanted to say, you know, because I think it's just like the fact that
the community help is just like so amazing to me, and so I had to get off my chest how,
you know, happy I am about it.
DR, in fact, awesome. I mean, this is testimony to it like the whole go away.
This was put together. I had absolutely nothing to do with it.
People just volunteered servers, volunteered space, volunteered VPSs, put scripts together,
wrote bash scripts, wrote PHP, websites, volunteered to come on in particular periods of time.
So yeah, but that's how it's able.
Yeah, but that's how open source we suffer works a lot of time.
People wanted this, wanted that hosting money, whatever it is, really.
Or sometimes even if some of these laptops get stolen and they can't fall to new one or whatever,
they might, you know, might say, help them get money for a new one, for example, as well.
I felt that happened to somebody on the GNOME Accessibility team, I think,
and there were a way of some abandoning it got stolen and, you know, or something like that.
It's funny too, because when you think about it, it's not that amazing.
Like, it reminds me just thinking of, because I've just been camping, you know, with all of my family.
And for every meal, it was just, everyone just sort of went, oh, I've got a can of baked beans,
and then someone else went, oh, I've got, you know, some steak.
And before you know it, like last night we had a massive, massive meal,
consisting of 12 different dishes that just a small amount of each, you know, whatever we had,
and, you know, mixing all our ingredients together to create a meal.
And it's the same sort of thing, you know, that everyone sort of brings to the table what they can.
You know, I'm not talented enough to code the kernel, and that sort of thing,
and I don't have enough time to write all the applications I need,
but other people do that, and I try to do what I can to give back, you know, and do whatever I can.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, if you decide to be more than just to use up the software, that's fine.
It's your choice, and then it's up to you how you get involved, and what you're able to do,
and so on, and that's how it works as well.
Well, the important thing is, too, that if, you know, the browser is created by one person that
requires X amount of effort, then, you know, hopefully, as much amount of effort is put into things
that they can benefit from, but then if extra people come along and just use the software and
don't get back in any way, you know, it's been created already anyway, so there's no loss there.
So guys, I'm going to bake off now. I have to, I do have to get ready for work,
but I'm so glad I jumped on this morning with you guys.
It's been so great. Happy New Year to everyone, and see you guys around the net. Bye-bye.
Deep, deep, deep. Can I just tell you that, yeah, it's really,
I agree that it's really awesome that, you know, poke in others putting in, because I really
always look forward to your show on HPR, and so I'm glad to know that it's,
that it's going to stick in there. You know, I'm so glad that it's, it's, it's, it didn't die,
and because I, I was going to go up to two, twice a month, I was very concerned about,
and then everyone stepped up, but, you know, what, I just, I don't think there's anything,
you know, I'm trying to fill a need that I want, want to fulfill, I'm scratching my own itch
with it, you know, crayon, I'm scratching my own itch, and I'm just so glad that there's enough
support to keep it going the way it needs to keep going. I find it very tough to listen to some
of the news sometimes. Well, news can be like that, but, you know, and the odd thing is is,
is when I read stuff written by real professional news people, they always, they have a saying,
it's, it's, can, it's called, if it, if it bleeds, it leads, and there, there is part of a,
like a morbid fascination deal with news, as well as the time-based thing, I mean, you know,
I think Poke was a little shocked when he finally said, no, I, I can't do it deep geek,
and I just on a one-hours notice just pushed it out the door with the part he had promised to
record and couldn't, and I'm not complaining, but, you know what, it's, it's, it's weird, it's
different, it's fundamentally different than tech podcasting. Okay, bye-bye.
Thanks to Poke, I love the show, bye deep geek. So many people are still here, and they're not bots.
I'm still here, and I'd love to talk about food and nutrition. I'm still here, I think we've done
food talking the show itself. I'm, I'm still here, but I am a bot. Oh cool, I plan to be a bot very soon.
I plan to be a bot very soon too, I'm going to basically finish my cup of coffee then
pry head off, but I'll leave my recording running and everything. Cool, there's some, just about
the recording, there's some that I need, my thing broke out in the middle, and while I was asleep,
then I'd like to get them in order, but I have enough for today, yesterday shows already posted,
and I'm downloading the files for today's show now, so I hope to get that edited and posted
before I return to the bosom of my family. Can I put all my, all my copies online and let,
let you know where they are, so you can just grab them. Okay, that'd be cool, thanks.
Candy, I'm sorry, I'll wait, go ahead. Yeah, I just wanted to ask,
just back to the Raspberry Pi thing, I actually got one for Christmas, and I was just wondering if,
um, if you had any, Ken or anyone has any links to any good sort of resources, I've just,
I heard you mentioned the magpie, and I've just been downloading a few issues about having to
have a look. That's a fantastic place to start. The first, there's also a quick setup guide,
as well, the first, the first magazine issue is focusing more on how to install it,
and since then, the things have moved on a little bit, so I don't know, a bunch of issue one
is relevant anymore, but after that, it starts getting interesting. What I really like about it is
their introduction, they're introducing programming languages, they're introducing harder hacking,
and they're introducing, they're introducing at a very thorough level to everybody.
And there's a lot, if you're going to be reading that mag, there's going to be a lot of stuff for
you think, hey, that is, um, yeah, I know all about this, and that's a pretty good introduction,
but then you go and do the harder, and you go, oh, I'm not going to be able to follow this,
or you go to some other section, you know, databases, they've just started, and you know,
I'm not going to be able to follow this, and yeah, they're kind of walking, you're truly,
they're really doing a nice thorough job. Yeah, the cover, the cover certainly, like, the bullet
points on the covers certainly, you know, seem enticingly interesting, because I think one of
the problems I have, you know, I'd, I'd bore a lot of the AVR-based processor stuff as well,
and my biggest problem is always, you know, I understand how cool they are, and I know how to program
them, but I can't think of any use for them, and so yeah, that's impossible. I keep seeing stuff
the time that it could use for my plays. I have no imagination, that's all. Oh, come on.
I don't know. Can I ask a question, Ken, that I was going, going to Jason?
No, go on. Far ahead. I just wanted to check that you knew the episode I submitted a few weeks
ago on food, that I meant it to be the submission from a news, a new host. So if that would change
the priority at all, I just see it moving down and up the queue and changing, just want to make
sure that you know that that was the intention. It's the first time I can check. Hold on a second, hold on a second, hold on a second.
And it just, it seems to me, maybe I'm sharing this information with the wrong group of people,
because maybe that's not a subject which is actually interesting to hackers. I'm not sure,
and if I am, then I would happily be quiet. How come I don't have food as a first
contributor? I didn't send you an email. I sent you an email when I submitted it to say that I
wanted the priority to be changed and what have you? Yeah, I know you said you submitted this
thing. You wanted to swap from the Arch Linux, the one that was recorded on the Saturday sessions
up to, and I changed that, but you are a new contributor. How is that possible to miss that?
Well, I've only, I've only ever given you one or two syndicated shows before and I understood
that would be separate from a new host, you know, that wouldn't be counted. Okay, maybe that's
where I got confused. I don't know whether that would be separate as a new host or not.
Anyway, after you will be popped to the top of the queue, apologies for that,
after the new year shows are aired, you'll be getting, you'll be coming out, yeah?
Okay, thanks very much. I don't want to, like sometimes I'm too serious about food, but it's
just when I hear, say you saying, you know, your kid faints when he gets out of the bar for,
when someone else says that their, their kid's way told the nail and what I've been studying for
the last 10 years, it gives me the answers as to why this is a, if people are interested,
you said he fainted. Yeah, because he was sick that day, so don't reach out to him. Okay, well,
whatever it is, I don't know, only you know the details, but it's just what I've been studying
myself personally and my practices. I'm not saying that I know loads about it, but I, I don't
appreciate so much, you know, the disrespect towards, towards cows or towards what I'm doing,
you know, because I, I thought that people might actually be kind of interested, you know, and
sorry, what disrespect are you talking to? To you a little bit, to be honest, Kevin, and I don't
mean to create some conflict here. I just want to, if, if people aren't interested in, in
health food or understand a little bit and understand there can be a lot to study and it is a
confusing terrain, but I just want you to try and share what a lot of people don't have time to
study themselves because. Yeah, don't worry about it, we'll be fine. I mean, maybe you missed it,
but in that 24 hour show, food was bought up at least three times and discussions, so there is
an interest and everyone's willing to eat it, don't they? So it's fine. But not in the context in which
I mean it, you know, not to be dead for the degree, you know, everybody's interested in food,
for interest in recipes and issues, I don't want to upset anybody else by, by harping on about
all this stuff or making a nuisance of myself, so happy to shut up, you know. If they don't like it,
they can turn off, I guess, or not, or whatever, can't they? Exactly, no, your, your show is scheduled,
from the point of view of hit, your admin, your show is scheduled, you should have, I understood
that you were already released host, and I appreciate now that it was, that it was a syndicated
show of yours that was released first, so that's obviously a mistake in my part. From the point of
view of HPR, your show gets as much priority as anybody else's, so it'll be coming on, and if
people disagree with what you're saying, then that is up to them. Ideally, they would record a show
and as a response and submit that back to you saying you're full of crap or whatever, and I'm sure
you were then released as your counteract in that show, and then we would all benefit from the
discussion, surely. I know what you mean, it's just, I'm out of the stage where I don't really,
I'm not really so interested in convincing anybody because the terrain is so confusing and
there can be quite a motive, you know, so I'm not sure I want to waste so much time because I have
decent food and health myself, so well. I would just put in the word, if I've got a good
hack here on, sorry, Lordy, just coming on second, if I've got a good hack and I want to share
with people and just enrich my life, well sure I want to share that with the community and your
new one of food will be added to the, to as soon as these episodes come out, it'll be to the top
of the queue, yeah. Okay, thanks. And the thing with HPR, it's a very large audience, and if you
worry about offending every single person there, you're just going to spend too much time on that.
You know, people are going to find it interesting or they're going to skip it. I don't think I've
gotten there yet, but you know, I'm sure I'll find it interesting. I've listened to all but one
episode of HPR to this point, so release it, go for it, and let's hear what there is to be said.
They were, I'm actually personally, I know I've told you I haven't listened to it, but I'm
personally quite interested in hearing it because my wife is very much into that sort of food.
I'm from talking to you, I must say that I do intend to be very skeptical about what you're saying,
because to be honest, you're coming so left to field with so many radical new ideas that I'm having,
it's gone contrary to everything that I've personally heard up until now, so now you're going to
have to convince me. I mean, you don't, you know, I mean, you're going to have to put a very good
argument to me and I guess all the other listeners as to what you're saying is true, because this isn't
about putting a new operating system in that's going to change everybody's life for the better.
This is about changing somebody's lifestyle and what might work for you who works on a farm and
is outside every day getting lots of exercise and burning a lot of these calories and stuff might
not work for everybody else, so I really do look forward to a good too and for all in the comments
section and getting feedback from people on your episode when it does come. The only problem is
unfortunately these things I'm saying, they are out in the mainstream, a small portion of the
mainstream in the US, it comes from the US and it is a way of life that we used to have 100 years
ago or 50 years ago in some countries and it has been proved be resilient. What is actually radical
and new is the way people are living now and you know, it's not really my role to try and convince
anybody and I don't intend to get into any argument because it's not, it's none of these things
and my idea is, you know, it's just absolutely fine, but you're bringing the information to the
people and what I'm interested in my counter-argument, I haven't heard your show because as I've
told you, I don't listen to the shows beforehand, but what I would say is that the world is our way
of working is completely different now than it was 100 years ago. So what was correct for a man,
a quote man woman 100 years ago, who was up at the crack of dawn, out working on the fields,
or working down at Mill or wherever, might not necessarily be valid for today's life.
Judi, the calories in and out has been already demystified, you know, it's a fallacy,
so you know, if you want to cling onto that argument, it's just a way. I'm not sticking onto the
calories, I don't believe in the calorie thing, I believe in a good mixed balanced diet.
Guys, the thing I'll also say is don't mistake an argument for discussion or conversation?
Absolutely. Yeah, that's where I was going to as I'm going to say, you know, don't expect that
just because you're being asked to defend your position in a debate format, but that's an argument
that isn't necessarily the case. No, I mean, all I'm intending to do is just to put out the
information and the sources that I follow and I get it from his out there and anybody interested
or has it doubt can just go straight to there because it's all been refuted and demonstrated
very scientifically and intelligently, and that's the main reason that I feel so strongly
about it and have put it into my into practice and seeing the results, you know. That's excellent,
and I know my wife doesn't, she's not an ordeal person and she just doesn't understand what I'm
doing here, but she hasn't listened to many of the shows, but that is definitely one that I have
told her that she is going to be listening to because she's very into, she doesn't quote, I don't
want to poison my children on the court. Yeah, I thought that too that you could, man, you could get
to listen to that one probably or something, yeah. Well, I mean, I'll go ahead, Lord.
And the thing I'll say, you know, like I said, I've listened to all but one episode of HPR,
I will listen to this and I'll, you know, be looking forward to what you have to say and, you know,
what evidence you bring with you. I mean, I'll even go so far as to say, you know, I am the person who,
if someone could bring a well reasoned hate argument to HPR, I would want to listen to it. I may not,
I know this is a viewpoint, I don't think a lot of people have, but if someone could bring a
well reasoned viewpoint to hate speech, I would want to hear it, you know, not just some idiots
viewing, you know, ridiculous bullshit, but if someone could bring a, you know, what sounds like
a well reasoned thought out opinion, I would want to hear it just because you never hear that kind
of stuff anywhere. And if somebody does want to do that, it will get released in heck of public
radio, but you will can expect as well that people will submit yours afterwards,
given your country opinion, if they have that country opinion themselves.
Yeah, and anyway, all the facts which are in the show I did, I didn't do a very good job,
it's difficult to be present all the facts which are in written form, especially when there are
so many, so I'd really advise anyone to go ahead as I did in the show and read the source
information yourself. A lot of the time when people are trying to do some audio argument, it does
take an awful lot of skill to present it very factually as the original source content was,
you know, so I don't pretend to try and fulfill that at all, just want to highlight it to people
who have never heard of it, you know, if I ask anybody else, why do children wear braces nowadays,
nobody else has the answer, you know, or even has the interest to think that they, with my question,
the idea, why does my son have to wear braces? Certainly, I think we all support the idea of
questioning in a scientific method why and what effects do our food sources have on us, and I think
we'd all support a very good hypothesis. Yeah, can you make sure that there's good show notes
associated with the episodes so that people have references to refer to? The show notes are the
links to the website, you know, that's the, and then the books for show mention, beyond that, if beyond
the amount of time I have to re-regurgitate it for everybody, I just want to, as a lay person who's
practicing it to demonstrate the existence of it and leave it up to people to really go and find
if they have interest, why are their children at all of themselves, why are the younger sibling is
taller, why we have to keep going to the doctor, you know, the answers are all out there if we want to
find them. Yeah, the only thing about this, and I'm not pointing it to you at all,
Dupin, yeah, so don't get sensitive about this, is that there are, there have been so many
different diets and so many different books and research done, and this is very difficult to get,
you know, good information as to, you know, scientifically proven information on why this is,
because simply a lot of the scientific researchers have not given it enough time, and even,
even for a population of, you know, what they're arguing now is that food intake in a Swedish village
from, has still affects the genes of the third generation of the family, you know, it just takes
such a long time for any of these theories to be proven because it takes so much time, and in
that time, the lifestyle of the people in the tests have been changed, so it's very difficult to
get a scientific, a good scientific basis, and that's why I would be skeptical of anybody who says,
oh, I've scientifically proven that this is a natural fact, because the simply has not been
three generations of people living in the, in the court, modern world as yet. So the, just to
answer that quickly, I mean, there was the guy in the 1920s, western aid price, who was a dentist,
very intelligent person, and he did go and do a very simple scientific exploration of, I think,
14 isolated peoples, which had no contact with the modern world and their modern foods, and they
had been self-sufficient on their own foods, and all of their diets differed apart from certain
core aspects, and he bought all those together, tested them, you know, thousands of photos, photographic
evidences, he did very, very strict, sort of scientific procedures, he followed, much more than
anything that's been sponsored by, you know, the pharmaceutical or food industries.
Okay, but now you're, now you're, you're the one who's been biased because you're arguing now that
all the other, all the other case studies have been influenced by pharmaceutical companies. When
in fact, I didn't, I didn't say that you just said, could I just say one more thing? Can I say one
more thing? Is that he also noticed within just one generation, when they finally the, those isolated
peoples, when contact was made with the, with the civilized, you know, civilized, modernized
peoples, and the food diets changed, not necessarily the lifestyle, but the food diet changed.
There was market changes in the growth and the change, the, the teeth and the structure and the
healthiness of the offspring, and he also noted when he gave degenerated or damaged people,
the proper food, they should have originally, that the change occurred back in the positive
direction, and all of these things are documented in his book. Yeah, but that's not surprising.
The same thing happened when the conquistadors came to the US, they brought disease and the broad
change of lifestyle and food. I'm not talking about disease, I'm not talking about disease.
No, I don't, I don't know enough of what I'm saying is that when change comes as a result of
new foods, there are going to be changes, but the biggest change of all is the fact that we live
now 30, 40 years longer than we used to, only a few hundred years ago.
If you, if you study that, where you go that statistic properly and the actual statistics behind it,
you'll find it's, it's false, you know. You're saying now that people used to live,
sorry, can you refer us? The people's, the people's he found were living way
into their 80s, 90s, 100s, and there is evidence to show that it's just no one wants you to know
that, you know, and they were living without doctors and without any kind of, kind of holding them
up in their later years, you know. Okay, well that might be those isolated people, but I know
the people from my culture in Ireland, if you go walk to any graveyard, you'll see that the
average age on the gravestones is 40, 50, 30. Yes, but though the people who were buried,
are usually, you know, the richer people who can afford a grave stone, there are many influence
in factors, you know. There's also, there's also records, uh, dude man in the archives about how
long people lived, and I would, yeah, poor people as well. Sure, sure, but, but, but still you got
those weren't isolated people who were, who were eating the correct diet, you know, that they
aren't examples of, of healthy, the generation has been going on for thousands of years,
and eating bad food has been going on for thousands of years in the mass populations, you know,
and diets, but only in isolated people's locations where they couldn't get access to mixing with
other people's and having, you know, more, kind of cheapened and industrialized foods, you know,
more processed or cheaper foods, you know, lots of grains and, and, uh, other agricultural foods,
and they didn't just rely upon the skills they had for centuries or thousands of years,
so it's very much, I don't, I don't, the thing is I don't necessarily disagree with what you're
saying, but I don't necessarily agree that it's comparable to compare isolated people's in,
in different cultures around the place, with what we have today, because I'm not, I'm not
sitting for four hours walking, for four hours hunting and gathering and eating berries from
the stream and climbing up hills and running down dails and building mountains and living out
on the cold, burning lots of, I'm living a completely different lifestyle, I'm sitting mostly,
I'm barely outside, I'm barely walking around, um, so obviously, even if I was to eat their
diet, I would become incredibly unhealthy because I'm eating far too many, whatever it is, I'm taking
on a lot more fuel than I would need, that I would ever possibly be able to expand.
It's, it's just not true, because if, if you accept that the calories in calories out is a myth,
it's more about what you eat, you need to eat high quality nutrient dense food, maybe you would
eat much less than me, but you could eat the same foodstuffs, and you know, basically all the
processed foods are what is causing obesity, and there's a wonderful book called Eat Fat Lose Fat,
it's just a complete myth, you don't gain fat by eating fatty foods, it's the exact opposite,
any fat, fat, the quiet for catalysts, and you know, this isn't my words, you know, and that's
why I know your wife is going to be upset, like most health, who's being healthy nowadays,
nowadays, will be upset, will be a listen to this, you know. Hello, Ken's wife.
Hello, Ken's wife. Just before we get into that, one thing I would like to hear a little bit
more detail on is, have they done any comparisons in the rates of appendicitis at all?
I'm not sure about the details, I lost my wife, she said in the computer she'll do a quick
search about appendicitis, the rates of appendicitis, that there are other doctors, I'll let my wife
come over and explain, hang on, come over, hang on, gone, this is my wife. There is just one example,
I'm aware of, it's the Eskimos, there was any single case of cancer, of appendicitis, but once
they converted to a process diet, they started to have these problems, but once they came back,
they stopped to have any problems like this, in any single case of cancer of appendicitis.
Yeah, that's because their diet is rich in sealant fish, isn't it?
Very high in fat, saturated fat, and they treasured gold, the saturated fat, as did people in the
mid-Europe with butter and lard from pigs and Louis from Bulls. It has, there is very clear evidence,
if you follow the money, that it is not easy to make money selling those kinds of things, and hence why
the industrial food production system has got in and infiltrated the FDA or whatever other food
advisory committees there are, and they've put the food trying to slide down. You want to say to
say to Lincoln? Sorry, I can't hear you at all, Ken. No, you've gone dark, Ken. Still nothing.
You're flashing on and off, but yeah, no audio. The next time we get to our camp, what we all need
to do is have little hand signs with a little red mouth, and before we speak, we want to
roll you so as little red mouth. Just bob up and down in the audience. That's right, yeah.
No, it's funny because I forget that the default mumble client has little mouths, because I run
a different skin on it, and it's got little speakers, and yeah, when everyone peeks up,
it talks about little red lips or whatever, I have to sort of sit there and think for a minute,
because I forget that that's what it is. Yeah, it's going to be weird when we get to an old
camper of meeting or something, and oh my god, these people have faces attached to their emails.
What's going on? Yeah, a good costume that you could wear along would just be a piece of card,
or something with the picture of the lips, perhaps with a little red LED behind it that you can
turn on and off, and just your name on the front. I must admit, the two things I've been converted to
over this couple of weeks I've had over Christmas. One has been G plus Hangouts, and the other one
has been Mumble. Mumble does rock quite a lot. Yeah, it's brilliant, it really is.
If any of the people from the Mumble project happen to catch this broadcast, thank you so much for
putting the time, the effort into getting an open source client for voiceover IP sorted in such
a brilliant way. We really do appreciate your work on that one. Can you hear me? Yeah,
we've been back again. Ken is back. That's a cool one for our camp. We need to do that. T-shirts
with the red lips on us. Yep, I'll be behind it. Did you want to put your wife on Ken? I'll be
happy to chat with her. No, she's familiar with the book you're talking about, and she wants to
listen to the episode. Oh, well, I'm really impressed if someone's familiar with the book.
She has converted us to basically eating the food stuff that you're talking about, but
we do eat from the organic as much as possible, right? We don't grow our own stuff, so we're not
like our core, but we're not eating stuff with eating numbers, and we're not eating processed food
for the most part. That's not to say we don't give the kids sweets from time to time, or we're not
completely gone off enough, so that's why it's very interesting. But if you are seeing stuff like
the FDA, there's a big cover-up and this big industry, I want also to see your proof for that.
You just kind of come out and say that, and you prove that. I'm not going to get into trying to
prove that. I'd be an idiot to confess to myself. No, no, no, be realistic here. Come on, you know,
any individual trying to point and get into trouble here will be just crazy, okay? You know,
and I'm not going to put my voice out or try to poke at it because who wants to get into trouble?
Have a look at RawMilk.com and find out all the troubles that they're having just trying to sell
raw milk from cows, all the plots, all the investigations, all of that. Yeah, but that, okay,
do, man, right? If we take this to the topic of, and this is my personal opinion, this is not the
opinion of Hacker Public Radio at all. If I was hearing somebody coming on here telling me about
why it's better to switch from Mac, from Mac to BSD or something. And they were saying that,
yeah, Microsoft has got a, they're in league with Lucifer and they've, they've conned,
whoever, and they've made a concerted effort to join the ISO organization to...
Oh, exactly. That's why I'm taking these topics. They are articles and there are research
proof to prove that that has happened. So I want to see exactly the same thing. If you're bringing
any other topic here, we expect the same level of proof in any of the statements that you bring
to Hacker Public Radio. Otherwise, we will, we will request more information and we will go
shenanigans, shenanigans. Not that we don't believe that it's happening. I just want research in this.
Cool, whatever shenanigans you want, you know there, but what I bring up our opinions based upon
what I've read and studied and I, I'm not going to just through lack of a desire to want to put
too much effort into it because I already have good food, but I get frustrated to see other people,
especially children or women suffering because, you know, often men aren't very connected with
their food or are very, very engaged in child rearing and nutrition. And I don't mean that to be
really provoking men, but it's true, you know, we men, we're often very, very distracted with
our careers and our businesses and, in fact, we've been understanding. We're too busy hunting
and gathering down the river. In the material financial sense, yes. No, no, that's all climbing up
the mountains and sawing our own fields and plowing our own metals. Yeah, well, once a time we were
doing that and that had value and sense because we were ensuring high quality, but now we're just
trying to understandably working the system that exists and earn money so that we can buy the food,
but unfortunately we don't have the information about what kind of food or what quality it needs to
be to make sure our children are happy. So there's a link missing, you know, and I don't need to
find evidence to that. You know, anybody can just look at the logic in it and even agree or disagree.
Oh, what's your name? I think in part, we're, you know, you have to remember, this is the hacker audience.
We questioned almost everything put out in front of us. You know, when people like Kevin Mitnick,
Adrian Lambo, Bradley Manning, you know, are being tried by the government as, you know,
being enemies of the state. We're questioning what's going on and in a lot of ways, you know,
we're wanting nothing more, you know, than kind of the same thing. We're wanting to hear that
opposing point of view. So, you know, don't think if this is any, as some kind of attack on you,
it's we just want more information like we would want on anything. No, I completely understand,
and I would just want you to read in those books and read in the source of the information. I'm
not the best person that remember in all of the facts in order to prove every single argument.
I would say I'm fairly intelligent and I've been convinced over these last ten years and
seen the effect on my own children. You know, I have a twin brother and he eats the exact opposite
and his, his family have all sorts of, well, no, he eats the, what's considered healthy in the
mainstream and he has all sorts of problems, you know. This, unfortunately, there's a distinction to
make here. Topical empirical evidence is valid, very valid and it's the beginning of the scientific
process and it's very much of interest to us. Unfortunately, topical empirical evidence is only
that. It is only the start of the scientific process. To us, it's extremely interested and we
definitely need your input on that one, but there is a further standard before we'll accept
things as fact and that count come from topical evidence, he's got, he's got to come from
consistent hypothetical moving to theory and that's quite a high bar to actually get over.
Sure, I mean, it's up to everyone individually. I'm not here to, I'm not going to try and make it my
job to prove or to justify any of this to anybody. I'm just a lay person whose practice in
sign can happy with it and just wanted to communicate it to friends. You know, I do give the,
the source is the information and it's up to every individual to go. It's not that the,
the sources don't exist on the internet and in those places I point you to, in those books,
you can read yourself. I would actually be doing a bare surface if I would try to reinterpret them,
it's best to go to the source and information and find it yourself, you know. And I think we
will agree with that. Dude, man, you brought up something kind of interesting I'd like to ask you
to think about this a little more. You said your twin brother has a diet that is almost the
exact opposite of you and he has all these problems, but what about the environmental factors
past just food? You know, are those significantly different that those could play a role in things
as well? It's just a myth too. I mean, my brother lives in the same country. He has an outdoor
lifestyle. He was actually always much more active than I was until I came and did this.
He drinks too much beer, at least last time I saw him, so he's overweight from that.
When I mean he, he's the exact opposite. How do you mean he's that possible? I don't drink,
I just, I lost interest in beer and I'd rather drink milk and kefir and con bokeh or they just
have more taste to me, you know. But to get back on to it, you know, he's just his children
have some problem, you know, needing glasses at very early age problems with joints and I don't know
what else. And I don't mean to make him some kind of example. And I do understand this isn't any
kind of scientific proof, but we just have a well for friends who we've tried to share this with,
and watching people suffer with miscarriages or children of learning difficulties or all of this,
or even minor, more minor ailments, but that's the reason I'm speaking out, you know, and I really
like this community, but I'm not going to go to such lengths to try and prove it because what I'm
reading and the sources I get it from, they do a much better job than I could ever imagine, you know.
I don't know if I've really answered your question, sorry.
No, for me, it did. For me, it did. What was your question again?
Mine was just, you know, the difference is, you know, the environmental differences between
you and your brother, could those be playing a factor in there as well if, you know, food wasn't,
but you bring up beer and that's, you know, in some cases, highly processed, so that could
skew the answer to my question at all. To be fair, you would also need to compare proximity to things
like overhead power cables and other electromagnetic sources for their effect on genetic mutation
and cancerous cell development and things like that, so this is where topical evidence falls
down a little bit in that those sort of things aren't taken into account and it's also something
that I would look for in amongst things presented as scientific evidence is to what degree
are those other factors actually taken into account? You know, it is, is there proximity to power
cable, proximity to industrial processes, feeding things out into the air, what is the quality of
the water that people are drinking and so forth? If I was to accept something as proof,
I would need to see those other environmental factors taken into account. I think that's what
was getting up. I mean, the thing I really wanted to say, and I didn't actually answer the question
as I wanted to, but there's a myth that, for example, if you're trying to lose weight, there's a myth
that you should do lots of exercise because of this whole calories in and calories out. Hang on a
minute, so I just had to quiet in the children a little bit, but what actually happens is if you're
already eating the wrong foods and you've got overweight, that you're actually malnourished and
doing lots of exercise is actually just counterproductive because you're putting strain on all of your
internal systems and your whole body and the advice that's being given by this foundation based
on their experience and I'm pretty impressed with the experience and the intellect of which they
ride is one point, so is that they advise you to start eating the correct food and as and when
you start to get energy to exercise and to to start to do things and then then you will become
more active but not to force it unnecessarily, which is against what we're we're told in the
mainstream. I actually had a dietician tell me that very thing and when I did change my diet,
I found that I wanted to exercise and start with some weight. Well, I didn't lose weight until
I started exercising. Maybe, maybe not. I don't know, and again, it's made me only individual.
It really felt a lot more like wanting to exercise and had the energy for it and another thing
that I think a lot of people miss is my personal thing is sleep, get enough of sleep and you feel
better and things process better. There is an other study with what I've considered empirical
evidence and scientific background that we do actually need sufficient sleep before midnight
and we need to have no lights and flashing stuff. So I've been personally trying to go to bed
they suggest two hours after the sunset and maybe that's a bit extreme for most of us but it's
worth a try and then just waking up early the next day because that sleep before midnight is very
critical. I agree with this very much in terms of personal experience, especially the bit about
light pollution. I've put a blackout curtain in my bedroom, it's not a permanent thing, it's
wind up wind down but I've got it so that the bedroom is completely dark for sleeping and that is
something I'd recommend to absolutely everybody, a perfectly dark room and a perfectly silent
room as well is just a wonderful, wonderful thing for you sleep. Yeah, it's just to mention the
background. No. So just to mention the background, it's a really excellent thing but I think there's
a book called Lights Out and they talk about the harm that can happen to our hormone system
over prolonged abuse of not getting that critical sleep before midnight and beyond a certain point
as you get older maybe over 40 that it is irreversible, the damage that it can cause and misunderstood
by the mainstream unfortunately. That's what hack and popularity was all about. We can do a whole
series of this stuff, don't feel in any way restricted, we've got loads of people who are open
to alternative ideas and will challenge them of course but getting the word out there, it's
perfect example is the talk key to me news. If we don't know about this news, we have no way
of if we're not exposed to it, we can't challenge our perceptions either. Sure. It's just as I
emphasize, you know, I'm not going to, I'm a little bit lazy and I'm quite busy as well,
like all of us, I'm not going to go to the effort to make it scientifically irrefutable or to try
and recap, recapulate what, what other people who actually know what they're talking about.
I just want to point people to different sources and bring up the ideas, you know.
Yeah, if somebody else is on the work, if you're just giving us a summary of Dr.
Bladibard Bladibard's work, then it's up to somebody else who doesn't agree with you to read
that work and go well, that's a little bullshit. All right, General Menwell, I just wanted to make
sure I got on here one more time before this all wrapped up. I just got home from work, it's been
a long couple of days and I'm going to get so much needed sleep. Yeah, yeah. We've only got
one course. We've only got about nine minutes left, haven't we? No, it's over, it's over an hour
ago. How was it? Yeah, this is the after show, but we're continuing on. Should we go for 48 hours? No.
Because I think Ken doesn't have the wherewithal or the ram on a system to edit a show like that.
No, I don't mind editing, it's just my wife will kill me. I'm as as you're talking here, I'm
currently making shelves above the PCs. Just around something off that we started in the first four
hours, I did find possibly the best entry in the Visiprophanosaurus when people were talking about
seeding torrents last night, I did discover seed noun, that which is scattered on the stony
craft by on and the great and great was the wrath of the Lord. Ideally, that would be a perfect end
to the show. Maybe we should give that as the title and the subheading. Well, as I said,
gentlemen, great talking to you all and I'll catch you on the flip side. Yeah. Take care.
Okay, guys, I must get on as well. Sorry for bending your ears. No, I'm not
told you, Mum. I love the conversation and I'm really looking forward to your shows. Apologies
again for not getting that up. I'm just a misunderstanding. You will be in the apology section
for the next community news. Don't worry about making the apology section really, it's not
necessary. Really not necessary. No, you're going in. Sorry, I was putting up a shelf while you
were doing that. No, you're going in. Sorry. Too late. The rules have been violated. I need to apologize.
Okay. I don't know if I can just quickly ask you here, Ken, because sometimes it seems like there's
a big fifth path about how to prioritize the queue and stuff like that. Ever since I started
listening to the Hacker Public Radio or at least that I listened to you guys. I was wondering
what was the original desire to create a queueing system in the beginning because it seems like
in the long run, it's always prone to kind of problems. Yeah, well, there was no queueing system
and I think there was a period where there didn't appear to be a way that the files were being
released in a predictable schedule. So the queueing system was just an attempt to give a predictable
schedule. On one hand it was an attempt to give a predictable schedule and on the other hand it was
if we can make a logical way of doing it, then it can be scriptedable and then we don't need to
worry about who submitted the show. I don't know if you were still on at the time, but when during
the course of this show, we had a discussion about it and we've decided that we're going to try
at least for the next month or so, publishing shows based on when the host last released a show.
Yeah, I did hear that, yeah. I was only wondering and I wanted to suggest whether you just have
like an additional feed which is like an overflow feed so that people can listen in any order they
want and they don't have to necessarily wait and it might encourage new hosts or it's not that
it sort of negates any effective queue but it kind of overrides it if people don't want to be
encumbered by any queue in priority or anything like that. Yeah, they're in it. The shows are all
up on the website in the queue directory so you go to W. I know, I'm listening to those already,
but what I mean is just to make that more public and more obvious, not that it's negating the queue,
but I just wonder what your motivation for not doing that if you don't do it is,
because we produce five shows a week. That's what that's the premise of Hackerworld with radio.
Because that's the way it started. If you want to release and start another network,
I mean, you asked me to justify what I'm saying and I'm just asking what is the rationale for that?
And I had a reason I didn't mention it early because I don't mean to create a conflict,
but it just seems a question that nobody else asks. So I'm just asking.
Now it's us. It's been asked in the queue quite a lot, quite a while. And first of all,
the five show a week thing was decided by Stankdog and troops way back when they started today with
a techie which was in 2005. So we had the format from way back then. So it's been an established
format. We released one show a day every day, a bit like NPR National Public Radio. So you tune
into the news and a new episode comes out every workday. So a bit like Morning Ireland, if you
listen to any of the RTU Irish podcast which you wouldn't do, but it's basically, that is the format.
Like most mainstream media to be honest. Well, no, like yes, almost, but it's like the links outlaws
choose to release. So the one to UK podcast releases every two weeks. You release everybody
as a schedule. This is just a schedule that they happen to pick. I understand. My argument for
continuing it is that it is predictability, but we as a community decide, while we're going to
release shows every five days, one show a day, every five days during the work week. And that's
the predictability. So if we're doing that, then we do that. If we're doing something else,
then we can do something else. What happened? What happened was, say about two, two, three years ago
now, was that shows were kind of been, you might get three shows a day, you might get a show for three
weeks. And then people don't know, there's no consistency. There's no trust there in the network.
And people don't know when the shows are common. What to, well, you don't know what to expect. That's
the whole point of anchor public radio. But when you don't know that there should be a show in my
feed reader, then, you know, how do you, how can you trust the network? Is it dead or is a pub
faded? Will it take it in? Will I get, will I suddenly get 15 shows of suddenly my pub,
my MP3 or my outplayers full of shows or is it completely empty for a week? But with the
consistency, and this is what people, which has been my experience that over the last few years,
we've consistently released shows every Monday to Friday, sometimes the time of the day may
vary a little, but every single day there's been a show released and people know that Hacker
Public Radio produces show every day. I do understand this. It's just the, the model of the mainstream
and the professional media is that, you know, a schedule and you've got to fill slots or you've got
to try and space out the content. If you have a lot of great content, then you space it out and
people have to wait, but both of those aspects that they, they're, the sort of scheduling is
above the, the actual content and one can benefit over the other if you understand what I mean.
What I'm suggesting or, or putting out is just keep the cute schedule for people who,
who want that kind of reliance or who are not aware, but since my MP3 player schedules
everything itself based on the priorities I choose, then don't enforce an additional schedule
on me or other people and just have an additional RSS feed which lets you listen to anything
as and when it comes in, you know, and I think that would make a lot of new hosts more happy
because if they're disadvantaged by the, the queueing algorithm, then they can share that RSS
feed with and let people listen to, to, to how they want, you know, you could have both an experiment.
And I'm speaking now as Ken Fallon, as opposed to, you're always speaking as Ken Fallon, don't
me. Just be yourself, you know. What I'm saying is that, sorry, have you gone talking to him?
I'm just having some issues here. What I'm saying is that the, I don't agree with that
personally because if you have two different feeds, people would not know what feed,
when a show was released, did you listen to Thursday's show, it will come whenever, it wouldn't be
on the website, I have no interest in doing that whatsoever. But feel free, send an email to
hpr at hikeopublicradio.org, the mailing list and start a discussion on that, but I have no
interest in doing this myself. I understand your justification because you feel it might create
confusion, but at the same point, and that's the reason I'm bringing it up with you because I don't
want to create conflict in any kind of mailing list or waste my time on anyone else's time,
that's the reason I'm reaching to you. Bring it up on the mailing list so that all the members
of the community can discuss it. I'm not hpr, I'm just one guy who happens to be helping out
with hikeopublicradio. So send an email to the mailing list to make the suggestion.
But you did create hikeopublicradio in the beginning, no? No, I did not, no. I just stepped in
when hpr was not released and shows on a regular basis. When shows were going into the queue and
nobody had a clue when the show was going to be released, those shows in the backlog.
And so I offered to do a shutdown hikeopublicradio or do we continue on? Hpr is absolutely and
totally not my deal and I look forward to the day when I can go back to just making shows and
other people will step up and or that we get the whole thing automated and scripted.
And that's the whole point. Okay, I never realized it. I'm sorry, I, I, there has been a discussion
on the mailing list about this already, about whether we should do it from an anarchy point of
use so that anything that comes in goes out and the discussions of that went round and round
and it was basically agreed that we would continue doing it on a predictable schedule for the
reasons that I've said that it's a predictable schedule and that that's what we signed up for.
If we signed up for something else, then if we started a, you know, randomradio.org that you
just tune in and occasionally get big bursts of media, that's absolutely fine. And if you want to,
you can plug in room random radio.org or whatever and do the RSS feeds and use the hpr stuff as
it comes in that's absolutely not fine. And I have no problem facilitating that with you as well. But
this is the premise that Hacker Public Radio has started off, one show a week, five days a week.
And you don't know what the show will be and you'll get it. But as I said, again, I'm not
Hacker Public Radio by any means. So if you want to reopen the discussion, do that on the mailing
list and the people chime in. Okay, now Rob, I didn't actually create or found that PHP script,
which would do that. And I have it on my website that goes into the FTP directory and just
creates an RSS feed from those incoming ones. But I say this to you, but it's not my intention and
intention to get too directly involved because I don't have that much time. So I don't want to
interfere too much. But just as a host, I know it's kind of frustrating, waiting for it to appear
or not knowing where it's going to appear, you know, misunderstanding the prioritization of the
queues and that. And that's why I make this suggestion just as that. Well, that will, that will
be hopefully a bit clearer now that we, if you've got a, if you've got a host name, then it
is your last published date and it'll just sort by that and whoever's first is first. And that way
we can keep the calendar fairly up to date and fairly realistic. But, you know, that's the point
of you. If it's a Feaster or a Famine, I'll always hear in HPR. So, okay. Okay, I'm going to
basically sign off. I'm going to keep everything running for as long as people want to use it.
And, but I've got some life stuff to do. Yeah, me too. Have a good day. Okay. Let's talk
into it. Is anyone left? Hello. Jekowski, is it? Yep. Looks like it's just you and me.
There are a lot of people left. I'm still listening in. Just being nosy.
I think I'm not going to be here too much longer anyway either.
Bell's widgets. Okay.
Hey, that's cool.
Do you want me to turn it off?
It's quite pleasant here.
I'm not here. I'll be right. So, I'm going to jump off the mumble anyway.
I'm going to leave this for you. So, happy New Year everyone.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year. Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio where Hacker Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday and Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club.
HPR is funded by the Binary Revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are proudly sponsored
by LUNA pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LUNA pages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a life, lead us our lives and strong.
