Episode: 1439
Title: HPR1439: 2013-2014 HPR New Year Show 2013-2014 After Show 4 of 4
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1439/hpr1439.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 03:01:26

---

You
I'm organizing some stuff and heading out a little bit because I just got to get stuff ready
for starting to right next week and working on my show for this weekend.
This is actually turned out to be the roughest week.
This turned out to be a lot.
This last week is the roughest week because I've had to organize articles on my website,
a radio show or my radio show and then get ready for this and then get ready for a show
next weekend.
Actually, two shows next weekend.
What are you doing next?
What show is next weekend?
We're doing a KPO with Jonathan Nado about the Accessible Computing Foundation fundraiser
and I do my music podcast every weekend.
No, next weekend you think I mean the one coming up, you mean the one after, yeah?
So Saturday and Sunday coming up, this Saturday and Sunday, okay, yeah.
Now the one after this, we're talking, was it third and fourth?
At the fourth of fifth or whatever, yeah, okay, this week and coming up, yeah.
Yeah, fourth and fifth.
And somewhere in between all that, I actually listened to a whole bunch of music releases
and stuff and write reviews for next week and get other articles organized and ready.
I do reviews on my website like three days a week, but okay, yeah, it's not easy getting
all that stuff organized and then you have to listen to a whole bunch of stuff and keep
track of things and I actually to figure out also because I write reviews for net
levelism as well, I meant to figure out where I'm getting back into their schedule.
Let's see if, uh, I didn't keep what say about half an hour, I've probably been about
45 minutes now, but anyway, yeah, it's pretty pretty much how that this thing is going
to be on this, that we'll find out soon, I guess.
Yes, I'm still on the stream.
Well, well, you are sure, but I mean other people in the I see, I was, I think there
were other people around, they just have kind of walked away or aren't talking for the moment.
Well, yeah, or they were not coming back, but either way, it's pretty pretty much a
bit. Well, like, like Doug will say, he had to go take his dog out, so he'll be back.
He's just, he's going to be out for a few minutes.
Look at Cobra or Pegwool and Cobra went to pick up his dinner, so he'll be back
from that, too.
Well, some were on the stream, but they make apparently, yeah, I remember, um, actually, I
remember when I was going to like, thinking about podcasting and, you know, and, um, 2011,
and I was like, you know, I don't have a mick at the moment, and then I had to like, I
remember buying one, um, this, uh, pretty much especially, so I could podcast, uh, I
bought an ad to that, and I'm using it right now and, um, yeah, just one thing isn't it.
It's great as, as this is, you need to, you need to talk through for a device or to do
it, a headset or a phone or a microphone and, and if you can't, if you don't have that
device on you, the time when you can't do less, it's the one, one kind of downside, isn't it?
Well, if you don't have a device, you can't do much of anything.
I mean, you know, so, I mean, if you don't have a phone that you could get into your email,
you can't do that, you can't do social networks, you can't do anything.
So, yeah, maybe it's from a point, maybe it's from a point you have to have a device
no matter what, to do just find anything.
We can just podcast for Google Glass here anyway, there was a discussion earlier on the lever,
but, um, yeah, best of all, the device and what the device is.
I think I kind of get what you're saying, like, for years, I'd never had any microphones
or anything connected other than just speakers, because I've always found that annoying.
Well, yeah, I mean, I, when I was younger, there was no microphone, I remember that, and then it went,
I think it was given to the neighbours who have a reason, and I was, you know, I was in 90s,
and then I just, there was just no microphone really, and I didn't really have
to need for microphone, because I wasn't, I wasn't, I wasn't doing podcast or something like that,
still wasn't really a need for microphone, and then I started listening to, I started listening to
techbites, and I, um, I started listening to that podcast, because I knew there were guys
and I see, and, um, and I realised, you know, I don't know, I've been able to want guests,
obviously, and I'm thinking, you know, I could come on as a guest, but I need to have a microphone,
so, um, so, for what, for quite a while, I just, I had the idea of possibly coming on, but,
and what a microphone, and what I had said yet, so, but then what I did go on, I mean, yeah, that's great.
I just podcasted for quite a long time, and I said, great, it's great episode, actually, I should,
I listened to that one, every now and again, even, I was, I haven't for quite a while now, even though it was, um,
it was like, just over three hours, all together chatting, and then the music button as well,
but yeah, podcasting is fun, it's, it's worth getting, I would say to anyone who might be listening
to this right now, it does not have a microphone, um, I would say, if you're listening to a podcast,
well, okay, cool, but why not come on one yourself, because why not get your own voice out then,
and set, get your own opinions out there on a podcast, because it is, it is pretty fun doing that,
and if you try out for yourself, you'll probably think the same.
Well, and it can be done, you know, big things a lot, people see the startup for an actual podcast,
like a full show on that, it's having a fair amount of overhead in that, and it does, but here on
HPR, you can actually go ahead and publish your shows through an existing network, and actually
get your voice out there into the community that will be interested in hearing you.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. That's a good thing about HPR as well, it's just, you just pull out
on the system network, and get you, when people listen to you, and some will do the whole,
the whole, uh, a lot of deaths, or possibly, whole whatever amount of hours it is, the whole thing,
both things will have everyone to say. I guess I kind of fell in their opposite, I felt,
I finally contributed an episode to HPR, but I think it was just because of all the,
all the asking, we need episodes, so I decided to contribute, but I'm perfectly happy just listening.
Oh yeah, I mean, yeah, it's good listening as well, but it can be nice to get your own, say,
and your own opinion as well, and that's just part of the fun as well, really, because it's
different, just listening, and actually taking part in the podcast itself, there's a difference.
I think the stream's probably lost a lot of listeners now, but, um, so be it, I guess.
Actually, we're still ready to run 20 listeners.
Maybe more like, you've been, or people who just left the computers on the stream or whatever, but yeah,
whilst going away to do other things.
So anyway, under runner, um, well, actually, I'm going to ask this question again,
I've done it already, but it's the kind of question you would expect on this kind of podcast,
isn't it? What didn't exist through to do use, and why?
And round number three for that question, I'm running Sabian, a gen 2 spin.
And whilst it's under runner, I'm not sure if he's ace, it's all that.
I'm just got a 1204 Ubuntu on this system, and I guess I run it just because, uh, no particular reason,
you know, I used to format and put something on there every other couple weeks or whatever,
and now it's just been sitting on here. I got, uh, had, uh, installed some ripping software,
and I just haven't wanted to try and reinstall that, so I just been letting it, uh, let it run.
Like, but I've used any of this for as well, or is it just, yeah, it's fun to do.
Yeah, well, like, uh, I've used Mint and, you know, some of those other ones, uh, you know,
but back, back years ago, it was, like, Solaris, and before that, it was actually, like, HPUX,
you know, and so this kind of fits, I guess, I don't know.
I never played around with any of the BSDs or any of that, and just, I don't know, it installed,
and does everything I wanted to do, and I don't feel like I need to format it quite yet,
but maybe I'll play with some of that when I'm ready. Yeah, BSD, I mean,
I haven't really played around with that either, but, um, I remember when I went to, uh, my,
like, first day, it was all events, so it was fuzz them in 2012, and, um, I actually went
along to BSD stands, and started chatting to somebody there, and that BSD, and so on, and a bit,
and then I said, like, and I got some even more technical as well, and I kind of said,
I sort of had a little bit of fun there in a way, because I said, like, um, I just sort of said,
like, why should I use BSD instead of Linux? As I've all the technical reasons why BSD is good,
and all that. But I said, um, let me see, I said to this guy, I said, why, um, I use Linux, and
why should I really use it over Linux? Because apparently, for example, Flash has to be run
in the Flash and Linux emulation mode, and things like that, and you kind of, I think it's sort of
agreed that BSD is good, but, um, but maybe if you're using Linux, it's kind of like,
bad, or whatever, but yeah, I mean, although I'm probably super engaged to an event,
and the code board is, yeah, cover nice way to open your mic up and just make noise all over the
place. Welcome back. I just removed my mouse. I didn't touch anything and pushed it,
Tarky. He did something, but all over the place. But yeah, BSD, I mean, this, yeah, you mean,
it should, in a way, it should at least try out more property than the battery or something, but,
I remember reading good, I remember reading good article from, um,
somebody, a developer of one of the, um, BSD versions, who, he, he basically did an article
or more of an interview or whatever way, kind of said, um, something about BSD, kind of having,
or the smaller BSDs, having kind of issues following the upstream, um, projects such as Glow,
and things like that, because of, um, then being, like, smaller communities and things like that,
but it should, it should probably be the case to some extent, but I think it's probably mainly
about Linux for whatever reasons, but BSD is still good, obviously, from what people say.
Any comments about it? Any comments about this or, have anyone used BSD? Yeah, actually.
Oh, yeah, probably. Yeah, you have. They used BSD before I used Gen 2.
But why is that? Because I was just playing around with stuff, and that's,
that's where I learned about the, uh, port's package manager and whatnot, and
fell in love with that. Best package manager ever, though.
Yeah, I mean, apparently, yeah, I mean, I'll see people do say, like,
oh, my package manager is better than yours, and all that, you know, people from various
districts will say that, but, but I've had, I've been told this one quite a few times that
actually portage is apparently the best package manager, because, uh, better than that,
better than that, better than that, better than, you know, all that kind of stuff. And, um,
because of how, uh, because of how packages are put into the distro, whatever it was.
And yeah, portage actually sucks in comparison with ports, because, uh, portages are all done
in Python and everything. There's a couple of package managers that function, uh, the same way
that ports and portage does, but they're, they're done in better languages, like C and C++.
They do the same functions are just faster.
And I can't remember, there was, oh, there was a distro that somebody else is aware of,
it's sort of unbelievable. Actually, no, there was a, there was a distro that somebody kept on
going on about saying, like, this distro is really great, because there's a source distro,
and it means it's got all this more control over the distro and all that, but, um, no, not,
we're not one like actual, not, not, not something like slackware, but something else that was
having bought a school, but, um, that's another one of these debates, isn't it? What is better,
really, parking a parking room, software from source, or, or using pre-packaged software,
you know, that's all these debates that come up as well, isn't it? It depends. You want it to work,
or do you want it to work to the best of its possibility? That's the only question you get
to answer. Well, yeah, space. If you want it to work, you need pre-compiled software,
and the advantage to that is it's going to be ready to go in a very short amount of time,
and if you want it to work to the best of its possible ability and squeeze every ounce of power
out of the hardware, then you need to build your own. Yeah. A lot of people don't think that the,
the time that you invest into taking a machine and tweaking it to squeeze every ounce of power
out of it that you can is worth the time that you put into it, but it's, it's up to the user.
I mean, if Firefox is open in 20, 30 seconds faster than it was when you were running just the
generic Ubuntu, and you've spent, you know, a couple days tweaking your Gentoo install,
and you've got it all fixed and everything, then I'm speaking from experience, so I'm like a,
I think it was a 700 megahertz P3, and it, it, uh, it makes a huge difference.
For me, it's got more to do with money. I got a i7 with 12 gigs of RAM and a motherboard went out
on it, so not sitting in the attic, and I got this generic off-the-shelf compact. I don't even know
what's inside of it, and I don't care. It just runs the system. It's good to go.
But if you could make it boot 10, 15 seconds faster, by having better performance all the way around
by spending three or four days tweaking stuff, would you do it?
Well, I guess I'd have to have a reason to reboot the computer. I think it's been going for a
couple months without being rebooted. I just had to reboot Firefox just hogged all my RAM and I
couldn't do anything. Oh, I hit X skill, and then, you know, whatever. He's blind, he can't do that.
Yeah, yeah, Firefox can get all slave because of the script forever, but it general seems to work
quite well as wise. Um, oh, and I'm going to, uh, take a break for a bit of weather, but, yeah.
Hey, bag wall, it's nice to have 12 gigs of RAM. Firefox can't use it all.
Actually, actually, I think with Firefox, apparently, even with, uh, a lot of 12 gigs of RAM or whatever,
that I think it can't awake it because it can possibly you'll take up quite a lot of that RAM,
but all used to be like that much or quite. I'm sure whatever it normally uses, it uses below
my system because I stick the entire profile into, um, uh, RAM desk, which if any of you do not use
RAM desk for your browser's cache or for compiling software, learn how to use one now.
Most of your distributions have a slash dev slash SHM by default enabled. So, uh, there's your
RAM desk. Get to it. And also by default, it uses half your RAM. So if you don't tweak with it
after your install, you're actually using half of your RAM for your operating system.
Most users will just leave anything like that alone and not change it or not really know about that.
What's that? Most users will leave anything like that alone or I will not really know about it.
At least, yeah. Yeah, but did you know about it until before just now?
No. You're awful quiet here. Well, did you die again? No. They, uh, they have a thing on Xbox now.
It's called a games with gold. You get two free games a month and I was checking out one I downloaded.
Although I do like the PlayStation model or doing it, they're like, oh, you get two a month,
screw that. You get like eight a month with us. So eventually I'm probably going to upgrade to a
PS4 just mostly for the free games. I'm thinking about getting a PS4 next month just for Diablo 3.
Dude, I've been playing this shit out of that. Really? Uh, after I get it, you'll have to send me
your PlayStation network crap. Uh, once I get a PlayStation, I will. And uh, currently I have a
witch doctor that does over a million damages second. Nice. Have you been doping doing any of the
on the item dupe crap? No, it's all legit. No, no, you can item dupe on the consoles. Uh, I was reading
about it in some hacks the other night. Huh. It's completely detectable, by the way. You shouldn't do it.
Yeah, that's why like I used to on like PC and stuff. I would do stuff like that.
But on this, I was like, you know what? I want to see how good I can get just playing legit, you know?
How is graphics? Are you able to do any comparison with the graphics from the console versus the, uh,
the PC? Uh, not personally, but it looks pretty. And there's no fucking auction house, is there?
No. Yeah, I'm gonna miss that. It made me a little bit of money. Well, that's one reason I
went with console instead of PC because I just really didn't give a shit about that.
Well, I, I bought console, uh, shit a long time ago. Uh, I've got, uh, I got, I got,
only got seven sixties, but, uh, I got to level 100 poor, probably put to level 100 P.
Paragon? Yeah, whatever that is. I wanted to say polygons so bad.
You know, honestly, I'm not really digging how they did that. Like, just give me legit levels.
Oh, it's kind of fun. I was gonna be playing anyways and now I don't have to have as much magic fine gear.
I mean, yeah, it is kind of nice. Like, for that aspect plus gold find, but, like, dude, some guy,
I was playing with him for a while and he just goes, hey, come here. And the trade window popped up.
I'm like, oh, he's gonna trade me something. And all of a sudden it was like 40,000 gold.
He just goes, that's for you. That's for playing with me and doing speed runs. Have fun. I'm like,
okay. Yeah, after you get level 100 and stuff, like gold is no longer, well, it's like you buy it
from the freaking auction house. Dude, I haven't been touched. I've only spent like five million.
Have you started crafting any high level gems? No, yeah. Um, I got,
I'd actually have to look to see what gems I have. But, uh, like, after doing all this and
like the guy gave me all that gold, I've given like a million gold away for shits and giggles now.
Well, yeah, that's what happens when you, somebody gives you gold. You use like three quarters of it
and the other quarter you give it away. You know, share the love. I might do that later. Just go
into random games and just give people a million or fun. Oh, no, at least make them do something for
you. You know, give your character a blowjob or something. Oh, shit. Now I know what he's gonna
do for the rest of the night. No. So is there any, are there any like weird things about playing it
with a controller instead of keyboard and a mouse? Like, I'm just thinking that it would be so
awesome not to have to click in front of everything. Oh, yeah, dude. It's actually way, way nicer to
play the controller I found. Like, one problem I had on Diablo 2 was all the clicking and then it's
like, oh, I got a hold down the shift key to run and keep clicking. All right, there's, there's not
as much blinking in Diablo 3, uh, way less clicking. It's definitely more geared towards, uh, like
the wow style, but the movement style. Like, you can, you can press the button, press and hold a
button to, uh, to, to walk. Then basically all it does is every time you do the key press, it
simulates to click. Um, using the joysticks and everything, there's actually an added kind of move
for the console, which is the dodge, which you flick the, uh, the right joystick to dodge in one
direction, which I found is incredibly useful. How does, uh, how does skill switching work? Cause,
on the PC version, when you change a skill out, it drops it to like a eight to 10 second cooldown
or something like that. Uh, when you're changing skills on the console, do they have a cooldown?
No, on the console, if your skill has a cooldown going on, you can't change it. I don't know if
that's in regular diabolo 3 or not, but, uh, yeah, that's, that's there too. But, uh, but like,
if you're like, say you're a witch doctor and you change your jumping toads for, you know, uh,
poison darts, when you change from toads to darts, is it, does it issue a cooldown? No. And the way it
works is, you know, how on, on the PC, how there's a sign like, I think it's the F buttons or number
buttons for skills. Well, instead of that, you have that on the controller as like your A, B,
and X, Y buttons plus one of the shoulder buttons. So you have five skills that you use all the time.
And it really makes it from kind of annoying, but really good game to absolutely,
excellent like console hack and slash type game. Are you able to, uh, put any skill in any,
on any button, respectively. Um, like your, your toads, you know, your spiders, poison darts,
that would be like the A button. Yeah, but then you, you change those to like, can you use toads
and darts on AMB? No, you cannot. All right. That would be an issue for me, because when I'm
playing my witch doctor, I use toads and darts. You know, I thought it would be for me, but it's
really not like, once you really get going in it, it's not an issue at all. Yeah, it is, especially
for like a, a sorceress that would kill my arcan set up. By the way, if you don't have an arcan,
they're really fun. And the play style is really easy. You just run around and make as many
angry things chase you as humanly possible while trying to not get hit and poaching when you can.
And then you run to corner, gather everything up. Boom! Purple ray of death.
Oh, did we run everybody else off? Yep. Awesome. Because I'm rendering Peggy speechless.
I'm running from the, from the triad of the moment. I'm still hailed. I was going to get for
breaks. I'm going to do that now. And then, yeah. Well, Peggy, don't let the Yakuza or Yakuza or
however you say it. Catch you from the other direction. I got a small technical question that
somebody might be able to answer. I doubt it. If you have an SSD, can you,
DD, the entire drive to a disk drive as a backup? Yes. How would you go about doing that,
where you could write the backup back to the SSD? What you'd want to do is do it out to a file
and in from the device itself. Well, actually, you'd want to do it from the file system itself,
although you could do it from the device itself as well. I mean, everything's a file on Linux.
So, DD of death SSD if file name. Pretty much, yeah. Do I need to do any of that fancy
dash B size crap? That's going to be more useful when you're writing it back out to the drive,
depending on the actual erase blocks on the drive itself. But when you're taking it off,
you don't necessarily need to. Could be useful if you don't have a lot of RAM and other factors,
but I've never really found a lot of use for those. I'll have to look it up.
I could almost hold the SSD in my RAM. When I got this machine, it came with Windows 8.
Kill me. I hate Windows 8. And it had a 500 gig hard drive and a 24 gig SSD. Nice little
decently beefy i5 and 12 gigs of RAM. I feel you're paying on the 8.
Oh, dude. It took me literally a month to figure out how to install Linux under a UEFI.
Took me about four hours. And it was really a pain in the ass because everything's badly named.
So, you know how that is. What it really comes down to on that, I mean, you can install something
like a Ubuntu, but who wants to? Ah, no. No one in the right mind wants to install a Ubuntu,
unless you pay while. I'm not going to get bored. That's a good, that's a good point.
Carrier and boys aim, but I was thinking, yeah, they only talk about UEFI until now,
at least not when I was around. And I feel a little comments there, but Carrier and boys think,
are you were you able to turn off your secure boot function?
Made me. Ah, jolly him. Yeah, I don't have a Windows 8 computer, but um, UEFI is interest because
distros have to try and support it and really all that. Anyway, Carrier. I think UEFI is a fantastic
concept and it woops the crap out of the box. However, the implementation that is done by
I, the secure boot crap is just that secure boot. If you took that part out of it, UEFI would
be friggin fantastic. Yeah, I mean, I'll actually actually win my gear. It seems that there's,
there's some kind of support for UEFI, I think, or ideal possibly, but they didn't really want to
support the secure boot, but I think they kind of really did people do know about that trying to,
you know, support it or throw it out, but how it can support it because I'm a deer free,
I'd know, um, support for UEFI secure boot battle that was released in May 2013, and
certain people obviously wanted to be able to do a boot with UEFI secure boot. And so I'm not
one-cent sure, but I think they're being looking at some kind of support or starting to look at
support for the full version, and then it's not in what that wanted to be out in the fifth version,
but, you know, it's just been a, it's been a, I would say it's a painful, um, the distribution
developers because they have to then mess around with that, and then on top of that, you got,
you got to think about the boot loaders and how can you, how can you do a boot with UEFI secure boot,
not, not the whole turning off in the BIOS thing, and I've, you know, I've seen some stuff and the,
and, um, you know, it must be really, it must be a right pain as, as somebody who is responsible
in one of these distros to, um, support UEFI secure boot possibly, because on top of that,
it's a bit, it's all a bit unclear what way you should try and support it because it's like
different ways to support it, and it's the whole thing's a mess, you know, and, um, yeah,
not all distros are going to be supporting it, it's exactly the same, it's seen,
it's all the rest of it, it's a little bit of a mess, isn't it, from that point, from that point
of things as well, not, and then it confuses users on top of that, who don't know in all the rest of it,
but, yeah, but UEFI, I think UEFI itself is, um, like you were saying, Cobra is, is a kind of,
it would be a good thing, or it can be a good thing, but then once you have secure boot into that,
it all gets all nasty, or whatever you want to say.
Secure boot is a great concept, it's just the implementation, currently.
Yeah, and then you need different bootloaders too, if you're going to support in the district,
you can't just use standard Grap 2, you've got to use, as far as I know, you've got to,
you've got to use some different special bootloader that has support for UEFI secure boot, you know,
so yeah, so standard Grap 2 can't be used as far as I know,
to, to, to, to, to be able to, oh, yeah.
So, John Doe, did you get, uh, are you in your buy-offs? Can you turn off secure boot?
Ah, yes, I did manage to turn off secure boot, but you have to tell it to be insecure,
and then I think there's something else you have to tell it, I've got a, uh,
bio, oh, I forget the model on this thing, so, fucking long.
All right, my laptop secure boot turn off is not an option. I can't boot anything,
with, uh, that doesn't do secure boot. See if it allows you to put a secure option in there,
and what you also may have to do is put in your own signing key into the BIOS,
if that is supported, and then not supported. The options in my BIOS are,
do you want to CPU expand, fan to spend all the time, or only when needed? And would you like to set
the time? Would you like to set a password? Save changes? Oh, yeah. And you can turn UEFI off
into BIOS mode and set the boot order. Okay, if you turn off UEFI, we'll allow you to boot
non-securely. Yes, but that's not the viable option. I want to do boot windows.
And you can't do a boot windows without EUFI, and well, there is, well, actually, you should be
able to do it. You should be able to boot Windows 7 without EUFI. I don't have Windows 7. I have
Windows 8. Windows 8 does not boot without UEFI. Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. That's the whole
issue right there. The whole issue is Windows 8 requires UEFI school boot to be enabled,
but it won't even do it up. And that means that the distro developers, you have to do all the stuff
with different boot loaders and all the rest of it, and it's just whole things and messes
from what I've seen online and so on. And so, yeah, and then of course, like I said earlier,
developers usually can't disable the EUFI school boot to even get a little on the machine,
and if it makes that more complicated to do. If I want to do anything,
I'm going to have to flash the BIOS with something that I hope will work.
All what you may be able to do is go in and change out your signing key for one of their
signing keys and then reflash it with a different version than what they have,
although using the same version of BIOS. But that may be an issue because you may have to sign
the BIOS that you have, which yeah, it can be a bit of a pain.
It's just all sorts of fun. So right now I've ripped out that drive and I've got a terabyte
drive in here. Well, that's that's one way to switch it out. Just pull the drive.
On the first drive I got in this thing, I kept Windows 8 available and finally got Linux booting
properly after three hours of pain in the butt trying to switch options and change things.
And what's even worse is it won't tell you, oh, I can't boot that. It just says no boot medium.
Isn't it lovely? Yeah, it's almost like they don't intend you to actually use your computer.
It's almost like they expect you to take it to a shop for it to be fixed when it's broken.
Yeah, and one of the things that really got to me just a couple of months after this thing,
750 gig drive, love it to death, especially for the price laptop.
But the problem I had was the drive started failing and I was sitting there in my mint install
and oh, hey, yeah, that that file system you have.
Hey, it's not working right. So it's read only now.
So I finally figured out it was a problem with the drive. Luckily I had a 500 gig around.
I could pop in and test some things out. So it being Linux, I switched all the data over to
the 500 gig and popped it into one of my other machines while I sent this machine off.
My only real problem was one of the virtual machines I had. I had to switch over to a different
clone of it so that it would recognize the processor differently. Aside from that, I didn't really
have any problem. Yeah, I would be able to, uh, the hell was that?
It's called an echo. I unmuted the music stream while I was shutting it down. Oops.
No worries. Does that mean the music stream would have just echoed repeatedly?
If you try to talk over it while it was actually playing something, yes, it would have just
echoed repeatedly at a halt. Well, because it was actually headphone jack jacked into a microphone
jack. So it was just an open path. You mean headphone jacked into a line-in jack? Microphone jack.
I hope you've got a capacitor on that thing. Fortunately it does the decent, it did a decent
enough job of balancing. It wasn't that bad. Well, hey, if it works, and some systems have
an auto balance on that anyway. So, you know, yeah, they do fashion. No, it's got an auto balance on it.
It's not that great, but it was sufficient for what we needed. I would have preferred to do better
with like two sound cards on that, but I just didn't have the time to get one and get it all set
up and test it. Hey, I understand entirely. I know how it is, you know.
Frankly, a pie on a sound card would probably do it. You need two sound cards.
Yeah, the pie has an audio out. Yeah, a little need a second sound card,
and which if you plug in, I think the other sound card that's out there, then you lose the one
that's on board. No, I mean the pie plugging into your computer. And I do have a USB sound card
for my pie. I'm not happy with how it works, but I'm happy that it all does work. Did you get the
good one for it? There was one of the higher-end manufacturers is going to make it one for the pie.
No, I got one from Targus. It's actually a very nice device. It includes a parallel port,
a serial port for USB ports, sound, and I forget what else let me find it.
That's what I was forgetting. Ethernet, SPDIF, microphone and headphones, serial, parallel,
two PS2 ports and four USB. This thing is marketed. It's an ACP 45 US runs off of three amps,
five volts. I can power the pie, and then I can run the pie into it to run all the functions on
here too. If you're looking for it, it's marketed as a USB docking station. I'm not looking for
that. I don't trust Targus. Most of their stuff as far as I've been concerned has been crap.
Oh, it's complete and utter crap as far as that goes, but for the 15 bucks I paid for it,
it's a USB to serial and USB to parallel converter with Ethernet that I can walk around with.
I can carry one driver CD and set up any motherboard with Ethernet. Not to mention all of the other
extra things I can do with it. Really, the sound kind of sucks for it, especially considering the
sound, I think, is on the second hub. The thing has three different hubs internally,
just to power all of the different devices, because I guess it was cheaper enough to get three
and four device hubs. Now, on an interesting note, I talked about using a
double i to USB converter to convert down to five volts from a six volt battery,
and, hardly enough, this specific converter has that kind of function somewhat built in. I just
need to solder in a connector. There, I just put the one that I was thinking of in mumble,
the Wolfson audio card for the Raspberry Pi. That was the one I was thinking about getting
if I got a Raspberry Pi. If implies there's a question. Yes, there is, because the firmware on the
Pi is proprietary. Yeah, all right. BeagleBoneBlack is for you, although I don't know about the status
of the firmware on that device either. One can always do research. On the other hand, I would
guess that the firmware on your microwave is probably not open either.
And what does that have to do with the price of T and Trina? Not the same thing to me, at least.
Well, and I understand that. My point is that, you know, there are certain places where you might,
all of everybody is going to give in at some point. I think even RMS would give in on a microwave.
I can't answer for RMS. That's a bad path to try to dig.
Okay, back. Welcome back.
What? What was the last time I was going on the seams?
What on? Go quiet while the last time I was going on the seams.
Well, we were talking for a minute. Well, the Raspberry Pi and audio stuff and
then kind of reach the end of that conversation. Yeah, yeah. I like, um,
like, how do you, if I have to end up when that, uh, wait for a bit for on the Raspberry Pi stuff,
actually. But mine will kill this off soon, I guess, if that's pretty much it, you know.
I'm still going to be up a while. I'm downloading some stuff and
I have to curate my library a little bit.
I've got a police to be up for a while saying that, but yeah.
If it's done for another 45 minutes or so, it, uh, well, I'll be 40 now as a best.
Yep.
And I think it's a good time to kill it as well if it less somebody else comes on because it's
getting a bit late here anyway. So, oh, how tech man?
Can you talk on this?
Maybe in the podcast, you have to march that and we'll look first.
Here you go. Well, yes, but I didn't know if I was allowed to speak, so I didn't want to.
Well, I wasn't allowed to speak. Couldn't be any worse than the rest of these.
Well, because I figured your podcasting, why would I just bud in and start talking?
That would be stupid and, you know, I was pretty much the open mic after party, so it's not a big deal.
It's the 14 hour after party.
Yeah, you couldn't be any worse than the rest of these ones.
The long after party.
It certainly is.
So, what's the point in having a 14 hour after party?
We need to point.
Just to see if we can be done.
There's kind of dying out now, but still, if it's done for about 40 minutes,
then yeah, it'll be, it'll be 40 hours.
14 hour after party.
I was sent here by a guy that got on the Open Linux community server.
Well, we will have to thank him.
So far, so good. Anything you're interested in?
Don't mean to come look for a guy named Jonathan.
Oh, Jonathan.
But the Accessibility Foundation?
Yeah, him.
Yeah, I think he tapped out.
Not that the rest of us might not be able to help you if you need anything.
Or we might be able to hook you up with him if you need to get a hold of him directly.
Oh, no, not right now.
I'm just saying like, I was just sent over here to find him.
Oh, why were you looking for him, though?
Oh, it's because the guy was telling me that he's also blind, and I am too, so.
Ah, you're the, well, aside from Jonathan, we also had a guy from Singapore on here earlier
that was blind.
Actually, he's still logged in. He's just muted right now. It's cure, cure.
Oh, yeah, you're right. It just noticed that.
And I myself am legally blind.
I'm legally blind as well.
All those absolutely nothing wrong with that.
I am not blind, but I am mildly dyslexic.
And I love Linux, and I just prefer to see it better than Orca, because Orca's
it's functional, but it could be better.
Well, really, that's what we're trying to do here. Make it better.
So technically, what's your, what's your background? Do you have any,
any programming skills or knowledge or anything like that?
Well, I can write HTML and CSS, or I was able to write CSS.
I can probably still do it if I picked it up again, but I still remember HTML pretty well.
And okay, I was sending more like you knew any like Python or other scripting languages or
anything like that, because that might actually help Jonathan some with the Orca devs,
if he found some more technical people to help with it.
Unfortunately, no, I do not know Python and all that.
Yeah, I just understood.
It was a hope or a prayer type thing.
Right. How about the farthest I've gotten is doing HTML and things of that nature.
I'm not a programmer so much as I'm a server person like I enjoy the back ends of web servers and
things of that nature. We're not even going to go there. Why not? Sitting here talking about server
back ends, how's the different pornographic? Am I not a programmer? Come on, server back ends are
the best thing out there. That's the most fun you could have in geek porn ever.
Yeah, you just like big back ends.
True. I mean, I like tight back ends. I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, it's a big
back ends, tight back ends. Oh nice.
Something calls me Gentoo is right up your alley.
My problem with coding and programming is that I don't understand half of what I'm reading when
I get the chance to read any of it. How much vision impairment do you have?
There's actually another program that's unfortunately written for windows,
but it's open source and I like a lot, but I can't use it on the next.
I'm going to guess at what it is. Is it non-visual best high back cells?
Okay, back in that book issues.
Well, no, I don't have a thing, I don't have a thing. Yeah, I think I'll say. I'll second.
Yeah, in VDA.
And what was I saying to you?
As a matter of fact, the dude from Singapore was talking about that earlier.
I just come back after network issues. Although I think that was my uptime gun from
2013, actually, I don't think I tend to snap off before after the year. So,
so yeah, no, that's quite a good uptime, but sound issues. Also,
I also missed anything that was said after
Tedman said that he was also blind. So, yeah.
How did that lead you to the tight back ends?
No, that was me. I'm in the tight back ends.
I'm sorry, could you repeat that?
We were talking about servers. And John knows that he likes big back ends.
I said, no, I like tight back ends.
No, it was Tedman who said that he was in the back ends, and I asked him if he liked big back ends.
I like well-rounded back ends.
Yeah, tight.
You wouldn't see that enough for you, huh?
Not too much, not too little. Definitely not minimalistic, because those just die and crap.
You like a back end big enough, you're not going to be searching for dependencies.
I think big front ends are just as good.
It definitely needs to be depends-free.
Oh, I got an nasty.
So, I guess you're not going for anything actually AT&T units then.
Probably not. Probably more like a good free BSD.
Maybe a little SNM gen 2-ish.
I really hope that kid's not on here now.
What kid?
Whoever the really young sounding person was.
I think he's still here.
Sorry if I fend you kid.
Nah, take that back, I'm not.
I don't know who you might be talking about.
It's not you.
Okay.
I think he was talking about me.
Soundy?
What?
You don't really hide your voice well.
I wasn't really trying to.
Peter can do some really good voice mimicking.
No, you know, you know.
No, um, we mentioned this before, AT&R.
We have to get AT&R in here and have him try to sound British.
Or do his impersonation of a British person so he sounds like a Southern bell.
Dude, everybody's sides would be hurting so bad.
Oh, I literally just fell out of my chair here when he did that.
I couldn't believe it.
Peg, well, uh, do you have the sound clip for that?
I know you'd like to pull things like that out of the process.
I do not actually.
Fuck you.
I mean, if you really want to,
I have no time to do that.
I'm doing more important things like compiling software.
My response to the, my response to the whole,
fuck you thing is win, win, win, what position?
Now 69.
Kinky.
See, what that comes down to is you're just not getting enough.
What?
Oh, sorry, I gotta, gotta girlfriend for that.
It's okay.
I straddle the fans.
Well, you know, when I was a kid, it was always unzip and so.
Ah, not on the side, you know.
What's that, John Doe?
Oh, when I was a kid, it was always unzip and slip.
Yeah, and I don't really straddle the fans.
Good.
Oh, so you're purely on the other side?
Yes.
Yep, married and kid.
And I'll,
seven months,
does of a couple hours.
Oh, dang.
Gonna teach him to use Linux.
No, I'm not gonna teach him anything about computers.
I don't want him to turn into me.
Yeah, just gonna let him become
in touch with the computers.
Yeah, once he figures out, you know, what they are, where they are,
how they work and everything, then he can do it.
I'm not, you know, gonna.
I'm not gonna force it on him or anything like that.
But the rate that he's growing and running around,
he is gonna play hockey and football.
What position?
I don't know about hockey positions, but football probably left tackle.
Mm-hmm.
He's getting big and he's getting fast.
And if not left tackle, definitely one of the defensive men.
I'm thinking we could ship him to an international school,
like the University of Georgia.
Where are you from?
Georgia.
Okay, I was gonna say.
Do you want to go to tech?
No, thanks, I'll die.
You go to tech to learn things.
You go to Georgia to play football, man.
Why not go to FSU?
FagSuck University.
Actually, you asked that.
You're probably a FSU fan and I apologize,
but they're not in the SEC.
Uh-huh.
So where are you from?
Tech guy or man, whatever?
I'm gonna say Florida and North.
You're still going to be wrong.
You're close, but you're wrong.
South Georgia?
Correct.
How far from Tifton?
Hmm, 40 miles.
Oh, I'm good.
North or South?
Pretty much directly East.
You said, unless it's close to Fayetteville, you're stumping me.
I heard a Fayetteville, don't know exactly where it's at.
Uh, when you're going 95 South, you get off at the Tifton exit and go left.
Uh, how about Waycross?
I know where Waycross is.
How far is Waycross from Cochran?
Uh, about 150 miles.
I went to our college in Cochran, middle Georgia college.
Yeah, um, middle Georgia state.
Uh, they might have changed your name now.
Yeah, it was originally a making state.
Oh, no, no, no, this is middle Georgia college in Cochran.
Like, uh, it had nothing to do with making.
Right, but, uh, middle Georgia college in Cochran,
and making state in, uh, making combined and made middle Georgia state college.
And it's in making Cochran, uh, Dublin.
Yeah, middle Georgia had a satellite campus in Dublin.
Yep, okay, those two colleges are the ones that combined.
All right, got you.
I went to the main campus of middle Georgia in Cochran.
Uh, I was in the games program.
Did they still run that?
That I don't know.
I'm only 18.
Well, you'd probably be ineligible now.
I'm actually looking to go to middle Georgia state, which is basically where you went,
but I'm looking to go to making, um, actual making campus.
I went to, I started going there when I was 17, uh, just turned 17, actually.
And I was one of the old guys.
The games program was, uh, programmed to finish your last two years of high school
and get a two year degree at the same time.
Oh, I see.
Yeah, I would, uh, I wouldn't work.
I'm a senior in high school right now.
Yep, too late for you, my friend.
Maybe if I'd caught you last year's show.
I've been to high school in like a decade.
Yeah, me neither.
Actually, this last year was 10 years, 10 year anniversary from being out of the games program.
Over a decade out of high school here, and now I feel old.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm only 27, 28.
I'm looking into going to middle Georgia state college for a networking systems administration.
They're engineering stuff.
Still pretty hardcore.
I don't really know.
They were, uh, when I started, they were starting up a, uh, industrial engineering program
and, or intro to industrial engineering.
It was pretty, pretty beefy as far as material covered.
Had four, they had a good three courses dedicated to it.
So if you know where Tipton is, you must live right around that area.
Oh, not, dude.
I'm from Winder.
Actually, in between here and Athens.
Case.
If you look for, uh, I see, right around Winder, or Stadium Athens,
uh, down towards Monroe, social circle.
There's a little town in there called Gaffney.
That was right down the road from the house.
Okay, never heard of it.
But I have been to Winder one time.
We went to, uh, some cabins out in the woods.
They're in Winder.
Cabins out in the woods.
Where they're with Winder.
It was, I think, North of Winder, but it was in the mountains.
There are no mountains in Winder.
Winder's way up north by, uh, wait, like, real close to the Georgia line, right?
Uh, Hell no.
The Winder's like 20 minutes from Athens.
40, 40 minutes.
Okay, so it must have been North of Winder then.
Because we were in the actual, uh, we were in the mountains.
You must have went up to like, Gainesville or something.
Or if you went way up into the mountains, you must have been closer to Raybear or something.
Must have, but they said Winder, so.
There ain't no mountains there, man.
Just a lake.
Okay.
But cabins, you don't have to remember any names, do you?
Not right offhand.
I know it was, uh, it was kind of like a hotel type thing, except you were given cabins to live in.
They have TV in them?
Uh, no.
Unicoy State Park?
Maybe.
Does the name Helen ring about?
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah, you probably went to Helen via Winder.
Which is a really weird way to come up.
Y'all had to come straight back roads a whole way from down there.
Shoot up 441 or 81.
Well, we came from Macon.
If you came from Macon, you would have been smarter to go straight to Atlanta.
Unless it would, unless it would.
My aunt lived down in Macon.
So we did a bunch of traveling and back and forth in between Macon.
And then we had some close family relatives that lived down in Fitzgerald.
So I did a lot of traveling to Fitzgerald when I was growing up.
Didn't pretty much all over the whole state.
It's nice that I've turned this into a Georgia fast.
I love it.
Well, let's see.
I had, uh, I have, well, I had friends from Fitzgerald to actually move to Macon.
And I've got friends from Atlanta.
I've got friends from quite a few places in the state Columbus.
Oh, by the way, your name offends me.
You bastard.
Why?
Uh, Georgia Tech.
I think he figured it out.
I got it.
Which I don't know why you don't like Georgia Tech.
But anyway,
because I'm a dog's fan, man.
Yeah, well, so we all have, we all have our faults.
All right.
I'm a proud season ticket holder for at least four years.
I don't remember the fifth.
By the way, if you ever want to go to the Florida,
Jack Florida, uh, Florida Georgia game down in Jacksonville,
you got to, uh, the season ticket holder of one or the other.
Yeah.
Um, I live close to Jacksonville about about 50, 60 miles.
Valdosta is about, yeah, about 80 or so.
Okay.
So, 10, man, why do you think I'm from there to anybody else?
I can barely understand your accent.
Oh, I love it.
Yeah, they're speaking too fast.
Don't tell him, uh, why I'm from anybody.
Yes, to try and guess it.
He's foreign.
It's a hint.
Well, I figured that sounds kind of British.
Oh, he, oh, he couldn't put you much.
Yeah, yeah, England.
You know, he's totally different.
The English folks speak proper.
You know, Australian folks talk like us.
Yeah, this is true.
I know.
That's debatable with a few of the Aussies we know.
No, I don't know the proper.
You know, you said the, the Aussies speak like us.
And I said, that's debatable with a few of the Aussies we know.
Uh, what I'm out of us was, uh, like techman and me redneck and ease.
Now techman on to one of the essential questions.
Religion, what's your district choice?
Oh, he's having to think about it.
Speed carefully.
Don't start a war.
Notice kidding.
Down, down, down.
He's techman.
He likes networking.
I got a good guess.
Anybody want to put some money on it?
I'll ask.
I wouldn't advise that.
I'll ask for the money.
You got some hell of a lag.
You must have Southern company for your ISP.
Who me?
Yeah, you.
Uh, I have a, God, no one knows that company.
It just happens to be in that.
See, they're all down when I found it.
See, they're all tell or a Southern link.
Neither.
GTE.
Nope.
Who runs in South Georgia?
Actually, a county-run company.
Well, nope, I wouldn't get it.
But normally, it shouldn't be lagging unless my, uh, unless something is taking my upload speed.
And you better stop running them torrents and learn to use use net.
That wouldn't be the problem.
The problem would be the, um,
today's, now today's Wednesday in the run.
That wouldn't, that wouldn't be the problem.
I wonder what could be killing my upload speed.
I haven't noticed any problems with them lagging.
No, Cobra, you've got the leg.
Look at your stats.
I've just been connected for a really long time.
Your average ping is 92.36 on TCP and 90.67 on
on UDP.
Is this?
That's bad.
That's horrendous.
Oh, that's good for me, man.
My, exactly what my, my average ping is 35 or 33.
Yeah, if I was in New Brunswick, it would be like 10 and 12.
Techman's just zero.
He is zero.
He must just be having an error between keyboard and chair.
I'm sitting right here, but I have my phone.
I'm sitting here laying on my bed with my hand on the button.
So what's the district of choice?
Well, currently I'm on my Galaxy S4.
That's a runaround of the question.
My actual computer is running Fedora.
Oh, Pegwall loves you.
Hello, everybody.
I was, I was running Ubuntu for a time.
Then I was running Debian for a little bit.
And I'm on Fedora right now because I'm looking for a wrote,
it's more rolling released than Ubuntu.
Arch, you could, you could also do a, uh, no.
Sabion, Gen 2, not, not arch.
Not arch.
Why not arch?
Horse stable.
Do you want more stable than arch?
No, horse stable.
In other words, it crashes to way too often.
Uh, too many frequent updates.
Break your system.
And that's why you have something like, um,
PC Linux OS actually, because that's, uh, uh, uh,
rolling release.
But yeah, it's more, it's about stability and so on as well.
So I might be worth a look into.
And it's four gigs.
You could also do mid, Debian addition.
Well, yeah, and it's been Debian addition, that's true.
Yeah, Debian district, or I was even thinking maybe it's slackware.
So that's what I was just about to say, slacker current.
Yeah, it's slackware.
I mean, they vet that stuff really, really well.
Yeah, Pat's pretty, pretty anal ability stability.
There we go back to back ends again.
I, um, I liked Ubuntu.
I must say that I like Ubuntu, except that I don't like, uh,
their LTS software because it's too old.
You should definitely try play on what's lackware then,
because it's, it's way more stable than Ubuntu and it's not as old.
LTS software, well, yeah, if you're unwillingly,
so it'll go, I mean, the, sorry, the long time's property,
so it'll get old.
But if you're on the, um,
version distro, then it's what, every six months until the new one.
Also, if you tried backwards.
Yeah, see, I like Ubuntu's way of doing it.
Like, and I like the fact that it's really easy to use.
And I wasn't, I wasn't what I would call a new Linux user using Ubuntu,
because I was doing a lot of stuff in the command line.
All kinds of stuff on Ubuntu.
But I just find that I prefer cutting edge software,
more cutting edge software, not bleeding edge, but cutting edge.
In that case, uh, open up the back ports on there.
It's disabled by default, but it won't, yes, just couldn't, uh,
come off from me that not without adding extra PPAs and stuff.
Like I had the LibreOffice, uh, PPA, and I had the Firefox Nightly builds,
PPA and other things that I use commonly.
Sure, but why are you on LTS?
If you want, if you want more bleeding edge, why are you on the long-term
support piece? That doesn't make sense, because then you should be using the,
the version version that comes out every six months for an upgrade and all that.
He wants stability.
Well, maybe he wants stability.
Cutting edge in one package.
That's why I'm using Fedora, actually, uh, because it offers me,
it's seeming pretty stable so far.
And it's offering me way more updated software than Ubuntu.
Like I'm currently running kernel 312, point something in the newest LibreOffice.
Why do you want all the, why do you want a new account on the buffness and so on?
Because I mean, normally there's slightly older versions of software,
it could be a year, we'll say, it's, you know, so why?
You know, it doesn't really change that much in the year, a lot of these projects really.
Well, as far as the kernel goes, I mean, every kernel that comes out, they're patching some,
you know, they're patching bugs and things of that nature.
That's why I like to have the newest update at kernel.
Because, you know, he keeps up, he's not going to be a nasty little bugs and
I think possible things.
You have to also think that I'm going to get, I don't care.
You could be using kernel 1.0 of Linux and still be more secure than ever thought of being with Windows.
But you're still exposed to more zero days if you're going on an updated kernel.
The only reason an unstable or updated kernel is if you're doing bug checking on it.
More and as you have played in your hardware.
If you have the built-in, it's my school laptop, but I've, I've got two laptops.
I've got my school one and my personal one, my personal one, my school one is pretty good though.
It's the same with the nightly build up top as a Dell Attitude E6430, core i5, four gigs of RAM.
Go, John to.
The main problem you're going to see with nightly releases also is that some features may start
working, but some features may stop working.
Once I hear him, does he talking?
Yep.
Well, I cannot hear him.
Break it up in the little pieces, John Doe, and I'll reiterate.
Okay, the nightly builds.
You're going to experience regression as much as you're experiencing progression.
And when the nightly builds come through,
anything that's updated and patched for security is also backported to the packages before.
So you're still going to get the security updates through your standard backporting.
That was not a snob, it's my friend.
Okay, backporting fixes the same security bugs in older releases.
Backporting fixes the same security bugs in older releases, break.
And nightly builds will expose you to as many problems as they will update.
And nightly builds will expose you to as many problems as they will updates, break.
I agree with John.
I just don't like Ubuntu.
I dislike Ubuntu, but I do like Mint.
And I just like Ubuntu better way better than other windows.
John likes Ubuntu.
Doesn't like Ubuntu, but he does like the way Mint does things.
We had a really great talk about that.
Oh, let's see.
Yeah, about 14 hours ago, whatever with Popeye.
And about how Mint and Ubuntu are similar and how Mint take
loads of stuff, a few months to read, but it's not all that.
But yeah, I mean, Mint is basically just a bundle with some branding changes and a few of their own programs.
And that's about it, really.
That's a good idea.
That's a good idea and release because then it's a bit different.
There are also some minor configuration changes.
Well, let me explain, maybe there's no longer being developed on.
There are also some minor other changes to the driving configurations and other stuff.
Well, yeah, yeah, yeah.
What's this about Debian beliefs not being made anymore of Mint?
Is that really true?
That would be correct as far as my, as far as my rumor runs goes.
They killed Linux Mint Debian.
There's a, I haven't seen anything about that.
That's so, to actually have that's kind of interesting.
But I think it was kind of an experiment.
It's all actually all along to see if they could
go away from Ubuntu and do it and paste directly on Debian instead.
As far as Mint goes, it's a pretty okay distro.
I mean, I'm not going to knock it.
I used it for a time.
Then again, I've tried, I've tried a lot of things and ran a lot of them for a time.
I even tried Arch at one point.
Actually, Mint is also a very much so about the interfaces that
hold Cinnamon and Mate thing.
That's also where there is a bit of a difference.
But although those interfaces can run on the distribution as well now, so.
I'm going to say with Running for Dora, I kind of miss the Unity interface of Ubuntu
because I kind of grew used to it.
I think using...
Yeah, I met
a fine person before.
Oh, it must be in the one 2012, he was using Ubuntu.
I think he was sort of saying how
it was good Unity actually to go with the screen reader and so on.
I can't remember quite, but I think he said that.
Because it's obviously a bit different if you're using a screen reader as well.
From, you know, if somebody's using an interface,
because an interface doesn't really matter that much, but even so,
there can be a difference between how the screen reader and
interacts with the interfaces, I think.
All the reason the reason that the screen reader works well with Unity is because
Orca was made for Nome, that made for the Nome desktop,
and since Unity has been for the longest time just a Nome kind of front-end,
kind of plug-in type thing,
it works well because it's based on Nome.
But this is all the Nome backings.
Although they would use it, they're moving away from Polk now based to their own thing with
Qtq and Mel or whatever it was, but yeah, but that might be a really
intellectual after, but the 14.04 before it's like there by default anyway, so.
I just thought of the thing to be 1410.
Yeah, yeah, 1410.
That's what I said about the 14.04 for 1410, it should be here.
I just thought of the thing to bring up that no one has mentioned.
Jonathan and with his Orca work and their sonar release,
is actually going to be rebasing sonar on Mangero, which is actually an arch spinoff.
Yeah, it's an arch spinoff, but it actually might address what you want,
because you want more stability as well as cutting edge.
Well, the way the Mangero stuff works is they pull down the sources from Arch,
put them into basically a series of repositories and build them,
you know, they're moving from a kind of bleeding edge repository into a testing repository,
and then into a stable repository, and so over about the space of a week,
they actually do more testing on stuff, and that might actually address the issues you were having
with Arch. Maybe the reason I had so much trouble with Arch is actually A, because of the fact
that it is so bleeding edge, and B, because of the fact that I could barely see to install it.
Yeah, but I think with this Mangero web with cool tea, I mean,
apparently he was working with the lead developer of that distro as well,
so I think the whole point is it's supposed to address,
it's supposed to address the thing in the context,
if it's to solve some of these issues that you're having as well, I think you're
going to play one member of Jonathan saying on this podcast,
and then it's bleeding edge, but it's not too bleeding edge and all that as well,
so it's probably is what you're looking for actually, or will be.
Yeah, I met when I installed Mangero earlier this year, and I liked it for a little bit,
I played with it, I just kind of let it get broken by mistake, just by ignoring it.
My friend showed me Mangero at one point, and I'm like, that's a really nice desktop,
and it really is a nice desktop, but I don't feel as though it's something that I could use,
at least not with the current state, like, again, I need accessibility, and so that kind of
is restricting in a way, because that means I have to use either Nome, Cinnamon, or anything that I can
put a comp is on top of, so XFCE, it depends on what distro it is, Nome, I can do, Cinnamon, I can do,
and it works fine. Well, Mangero is XFCE based, so you should be able to put comp is on it.
Right, but I've not had very good luck with some of them, like, I tried Sadi on at one point in
XFCE, and I tried to get comp is working on it, and I got it, but it was breaking, it was doing
really stupid things that it shouldn't have been doing. Some things, some XFCE distros it works fine,
and then others it wants to act up and act funny. This kind of depends, seems on it.
Well, one of the things about that, now I think comp is actually not supported anymore as well,
because the guy who was lead developer for that was, wasn't he at Dell, and then he left, and when
he left, he basically left the project behind. Yeah, and comp is has died, at least,
at least to the point of actual development, what Ubuntu have done is they picked up comp is,
because, again, Unity is actually still based on comp is, it's still basically a comp is in Nome
plugin, so they have to develop it as long as Unity is still a plugin of it. That's what they
were saying was, as they get to Mirror, they're gonna dump comp is, because they won't need it,
because of Mirror, which, and the lead developer was leaving canonical and going, I think,
to Dell or someplace else. That would be correct. And as far as I did forget one, I did forget
one desktop environment that I can't use, and that's KDE. You can't use that, you just always
said. What colors? The Zoom feature, if you go into your KDE settings, it's under, it's one of
the effects, it's actually, and it's a Zoom effect. Currently, it's anything I can get comp is working
on, Nome, Cinnamon, and KDE are the desktop environments that I can use. That excludes LXDE, definitely.
Otherwise, I would be using, I like peppermint OS a lot, it's kind of a cloud-based type thing,
but I like it a lot. But the only problem with it is that it's LXDE.
Hey, what's wrong with LXDE for that? And also, what I've made, or whatever it's called,
the name too, fuck. What's wrong with LXDE is that I have... Okay, OpenBox is so bread into LXDE
that you can't really remove OpenBox without removing LXDE in total. I'm not sure if that's true,
but I'll take your word for it. Like, it seems that way, because I mean, I have tried to get
OpenBox to go away from LXDE and cannot get it to do. It seems as though OpenBox and LXDE
are a package, and you get one, and you get the other, and that's that, that's the end of it.
Whereas, in a comp is it doesn't want to work, it doesn't want to let comp is help do its job.
But XFCE, yes, XFWM is its window manager by default, but it's not so bread into the actual
environment that you can't change it. Ask him if he's tried Adrian. I think last I
checked that was also using LXDE, but with audio. My fedora is actually number three.
I'm asking if he's tried well. Ask him if he's tried Adrian, because I think that's LXDE.
Repeat that? Ask you if you tried Adrian, because apparently that's the other thing,
what Adrian is, but okay. Yeah, Techman can't hear me. I think he has me on local mute or something.
What was Adrian? Adrian is a certain kernel and system on top of the NOPEX DVDs.
Adrian has a system for NOPEX. Adrian is the kernel and voice something on the
NOPEX DVD or everything. Yeah, I've never heard of it though.
Techman has me on local mute. Well, I said it's well about mate, to name
people. Have you tried that? Is that okay? Is that okay? Oh, I don't know about screen reader wise,
but I know that you can put copies into it because the fedora project, there's a fedora
spin that's made and comp is put together, and I got it working there, and I got my zooming
working. But once comp is dies, that's going to just, that's going to exclude me from using anything
that I can put comp is on, which was mainly XFCE, so that my problem is is that I really like
XFCE, but if, you know, when comp is dies and it's no longer supported, I won't be able to use it.
Yeah, but how depends on distro as well. I mean, comp, let's take this idea distro, for example,
when you can enable comp is, and I think that'll be around, I think that option will be around
for a long time to come, in those kind of distros, but yeah, a lot of them will kind of just drop
comp is completely, I think, and that'll be it. And a month who's already set up to do that,
it's just kind of waiting for the time to be right with 14.10. Unit 8 is, is there, it's been,
you know, it's in development, it's, does a preview, I think, and you know, you have to do
after the long time support now, because that would be silly to put that into a long time support
police, and as well, even more so now, after not having certain testing done.
So, you know, comp is will still be around in certain distros, you just, you might have to kind of
find the distro that has it, or even set up, even those who still have it, will still have it,
I think, for quite a while to come, even if it's up to, even if it's pretty much dead upstream, I think.
It's not, it's not just going to disappear just because a bunch who has moved on to something
else, for example, it can be around in other distros as well, and, and probably even in a bunch
who repress, guys, it's just just have to definitely yourself and then use it in the other desktop
environment, or something like that. I'm hoping that Unit 8 will have some sort of accessibility
mechanism, because I really want to try the Unit 8 and see what it's like.
Oh, oh yeah, sure, but, um, by the way, there's a preview, like I said, but the sparse
fire is going, it's 14.10 when that will, it's going to go default, that's a plan too,
but no, I think as well, but we'll see, we'll see what happens.
Oh, and John, do you think to the age and page and the chat thing, but I don't know if you can
see that, or we'll get onto that link. Yeah, there's a link on the left in mumble, but,
I'd come in with John for actually saying before that he had problems getting into the chat
part of mumble, because of the screen reader and how it works for mumble, so you probably
can't really get to that either. I'm not afraid to chat out of mumble anyway.
I have partial vision, I'm actually looking, I'm staring at the link right now, I'm about to click it.
I'm just looking for a desktop environment that I think is going to have accessibility for
quite a long time, and it's looking like it's either going to be KDE or Nome.
The biggest Nome fan on the block, but I can deal with it, and as far as KDE, I'm also not the
biggest KDE fan on the block, because I find it to be a little bit more complicated than
than I'd prefer. Not to say that if those were the only two desktop environments that is accessible
in the future that I won't use them, because I'm sorry, but I am not going back to Windows,
it's not happening. I usually switch between GNOME 3 or OpenBox.
And see, OpenBox is, in my opinion, a piece of crap, mainly because of its accessibility.
I remember somebody saying to me last month, December, that he was blind, I don't really
know, I think he actually said to me if I'm wrong correctly, that he actually said that he kind
of liked Windows 7, because apparently that's actually quite, or can be quite accessible for blind
people. I don't have two, this is, I don't know, but this is what this person said to me, so.
Yes, I guess that could be true, I don't know.
I can verify that, because I have a lot of friends who use Windows, and again, that NVIDIA,
I was talking about earlier, it's a non-visual desktop access, and it is a very good program,
and it is for Windows, and it's worked in Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7, and I think it
even works in Windows 8, however, I still hate Windows 8, I don't care, and I have used Windows 7
before, and I used it quite extensively, so that is actually true.
Yes, the NVDA thing, when I had some network issues earlier, I kind of came back to my school,
I got the John Doe going, NVDA, he questioned him out, but I thought he wasn't back,
so we've been talking about the NVDA graphics kind of or something, so I missed all that.
No, it's a screen reader, the thing about it is, is that I would like a port of it, I would like
to see if there's a way to port it to Linux and get it to work on like NOM or something, because
it's an amazing screen reader, and it's open source, so if there could be a port of it,
like the developers could port it and maintain a NOM, like it, maintain it on NOM,
that would be really, really awesome, but the thing is, is I don't think there's enough
demand for it. The irony is, a bunch of the pieces of it are actually stuff that are in use
with Orca already, so it sounds like it's just a matter of maybe looking at the code base and
seeing what they can grab and pull over into Linux and work with, but the problem is that
a lot of the stuff on the front end is going to be Windows-specific, so that stuff won't translate
as easily into the X environment or into these desktops that we use on Linux.
Yeah, and old queries should get ported over to Windows as well for any, but any more developers
will that fast. But so like some things like the voices that NVIDIA uses, those should be portable,
that part should be only brought over. There's a voice on NVIDIA that I really like called
eloquence, and I can, well, I found one port of it for Linux, but they want to charge you like
five or six bucks for it, and apparently it's very like buggy and unstable. I would like to see
NVIDIA be ported or something of the nature, or Orca made better than it is to have Linux.
But the problem is, is there's just not enough demand for it. If that was more demand,
then people, you know, the developers would listen. It's where the demand is, and right now the
demand is on Windows, do I think in maybe 10 years that Linux could be the actual dominant operating
system? It's a possibility. It doesn't matter if it's the dominant system, as long as it's the
dominant system for that market base. Way I see it, Linux takes more of the, you know, Linux is
taking more users all the time. Look at last year's thing with Munich, I don't remember where,
I don't know what country it is, but Munich, the city of Munich actually switched to Linux.
Yeah, Munich is in Germany, and actually that switched to Linux and open office as well.
That was a good article I met quite recently about this as well, but yeah, every, over the last
few years, they've been coming up with these articles every now and again, and it actually
took them 10 years to make that switch. They started in like 2003, it took them 10 years,
it was a good article kind of explaining a bit about the switch as well, what happened and
what issues they bumped into, and okay, it's not, most of the computers have gone down,
it's I think more than they had planned as well. A few of us still on Windows because of specific
programs that are needed by the people who work there, but that's Germany, and also Germany,
Germany, also they, what they're also going to do, come April or around then because of the
whole Windows XP is going to go end of life, there's not going to be any more support for,
any more security updates, they're also going to give out to all the residents, they're going to
give out those Ubuntu CDs, it was going to be element to originally with the LXCD and now it's
changed to Ubuntu, and in my case, a few of us, my parents use a group are going to actually
doing it, having an event in the general public will be quite small, probably, but when I try and
get some people into interested in it as well, but yeah, that's Germany, and also Germany has the
in Dozzeldorf, they have the free software foundation in Europe, but that's where they're located,
so that's Germany. I feel that, first thing I feel that a country such as the UK,
why I'm from, you know, is actually quite behind in general when it comes to technology,
and in general people use your Microsoft and Apple and all that kind of stuff,
open source is sort of then the background, but it's not really, it's not really that known about
and not really taken as seriously as it should be, because, you know, many people can save money,
and you can also give access to computers to people who wouldn't really have access normally,
and all the rest is, there's all these advantages, we, I'm sure we all know about these advantages,
but most people don't, and yeah. Well, welcome Wolf Morrison.
And the thing is, is these advantages are known to us, and we love the fact that we have
these things, and we just want, and we want to share with whoever we'll listen, the problem is,
is that not many people want to listen. Well, yeah, that's that as well as true. We want to,
a lot of us want to kind of get some of this out there more and let more people know about, and
ideally getting them using more of this software, but most people simply don't,
don't have other interests, and so I want to just don't, this doesn't really understand,
and don't care enough, and so in reality, the whole desktop Linux is great, for example,
as great as we know it is, a lot of us, um, relatively as soon as we got about, I don't know,
I mean, the market share can't really be done properly, but it's probably only about four percent
global market share, or something like that. That's millions of people talking about all the
distros here. That's millions of people, but it's not really enough in that sense, because
you know, Windows has what a billion users, and Mac has whatever, and, you know, and,
and then Microsoft Apple are big players, and Linux is just, it really is just kind of like a third thing
that is there as well for those who want to get into that or know about it, and but want to try
something out, and then I guess it's BSD and fourth place, and then you can say the fifth place is
everything else. Yeah, and the thing is, it is getting more popular, it's, it's very slow,
but I do believe that the popularity is increasing for it. I believe that as well, but it's,
it's always like that, that every year it is getting dark and be more users, more people trying
out or finding out about it, but in the wider picture, the use of them out is so small that,
you know, it's highly going to make the difference in the wider things, because of how things are
like, but then for all the other computer markets and technology markets, the servers and super
computers, the Android has really got Linux going on as well, you know, all the other tech market
stuff, that's basically how's the market, so the desktop is a completely different ballgame,
it really is in your right, but the thing is, I do believe that one day, you know, it will happen,
I do believe it's going to take a while, yes, but I do believe that it's going to happen.
And the fact that I think we're seeing Microsoft shooting itself in the foot and basically
clicking itself out the door is not helping it very much anyway.
I believe it might happen, or you might get more popular, but I think, to be honest, I think a lot
of distro's are not, but a lot of, not all distro's have the target of becoming all mainstream and
all really popular, and my idea is one of those distro's where it's all about, more small about,
it's a good distro for those who want to use it, it's not really about getting a big user-based
and competing against Windows, the same sense as a Ubuntu for example, where that really is about,
I like all this to make a Ubuntu go mainstream, and at the same time to give conical a profit
whilst I had it, and because that's their commercial distro, but it's a community distro everyone
wants to want here, and so that's a bit different, and then you've got Fedora with Red Hat behind it,
but that's kind of like a testing ground for Red Hat and Pi's Linux, and then OpenSus, and all that
is for Tsushi, but in a way, the only distro that really wants to go mainstream enough to really
compete against Windows at the moment, some people might disagree with me, but I would say the
only distro's that Tsushi wants to do that at the moment is Ubuntu, because that is conical's goal,
it seems, and they really want to go mainstream, and then, yeah, I mean, so I think if anything has
Ubuntu might eventually say after the next long-term support release, or something like that, it might
be, it might go more popular, but it'll probably be also dependent if this Ubuntu phone hits off,
and the, well, the phone, yeah, the phone is important as well, but that's kind of like the best
chance at the moment, if you want to talk about market share, like going mainstream, I would say a
bun, who is the best chance at the moment of that, and nothing else really, and certain people
are gonna probably be disagreeing with me here, but that's just my personal opinion.
And I completely agree with you, and I must say that a lot of people are angry at Ubuntu,
and want to smite Mark Shuttleworth and everything for what he's doing, but I'm sorry, but when these,
you know, when he is willing to stick his neck out and do something that no one else has even
thought of doing to try, and people want to criticize him for it, I'm sorry, but that makes me kind
of angry, because I don't see you doing anything like that. But people who are disagreeing, but you
didn't mention OpenSusie, who all have a, who are, oh, Susie, I guess, Susie and the Presidents say
that they want the enterprise, that's their target for their desktop environment, and it's
enterprise users. Ubuntu doesn't seem to have quite, it's in the educational market, of course,
you see it all the time in education, but you don't really see it in business yet, and I don't
know if Susie's taken off there, or if Ubuntu will, I'm kind of curious to see which way that'll
go there. I did mention Susie a bit, but they had a commercial, I think they
want to go a bit more popular and all that as well, but really the biggest player when it comes to
the whole market-sharing is Ubuntu. I think they don't want to go for home users, and they want
to really go mainstream, they want to compete against macOS X and all the rest of it. As for the
Ubuntu server, now I think it's fully, really true that Debian and CentOS, and obviously
that enterprise Linux and Susie enterprise Linux is where most of the servers hold you up really,
although saying that I've seen articles or red articles in the past where basic
chronicles said something or whatever has said like, well, actually Ubuntu server has a lot of
businesses as well. I think Ubuntu server is probably more popular actually than in business,
than people really think, but in general, but I think Ubuntu is pulling more target at the home
user. We're going back to what Techman was saying about Ubuntu obsessing other communities,
and I know him is a great example. They really have done certain things that
they have upset certain people from the globe. I could find examples, but I don't, you know,
I'm not, but I think I grew, I think I grew a Techman that, and while Moe is, you know,
Moe's upset some people from Wayland, that's another example, really, but the difference is
Ubuntu isn't just a distro, most distro, what they do is quite simply, they follow up stream,
and they put in the Linux kernel and all the rest of it, you know, what's needed,
and put into package into the repos, and they do some branding changes, and they
possibly have some of their own programs and things like that, and then they release a distro,
that's what Moe's distro is do, and that's been the case for many years, and that's fighting,
and that's great, and then they have the differences in between packaging and
management and things like that, but Ubuntu is now trying to do more than just that, and
they are really becoming, they're really a platform, and I think I remember John O'Bake
saying this as well, when it's Q&A or something, sort of saying, yeah, Ubuntu is a platform,
but yeah, they're more than just a distro, they're trying to do all these things that
most distros aren't doing, such as targeting phone and stuff, but of course some of this
requires money, and you know, most distros can't really target the phone and the TV and all
the rest of it, because they don't really have the funding or the commercial backing behind it,
or it's not really the goals, but one who can do that, and so I think, so yeah, I think,
but yeah, but the only thing is to do sometimes, to do something different, they have to then
really do something different, they have to do things that the other distros aren't doing,
sometimes that was going to upset the original projects, the upstream projects, but
I guess that's kind of like the price to pay in the way, because otherwise they'll just be like
I'm saying, they'll just be like they used to be, is it a distro that basically just took
their view and did some changes, and you know, upstream less than that, and that was fine,
that's that became popular, but it needs to, but now it's going in a different direction,
and I think that's okay, and there's been other distros in the past that went in a different
direction, it didn't work out, climate sample would be lindos or pin-spire, that was trying to
get in a bit of a different direction, it didn't work out, but that's the past.
Well, it's used to, sorry, go ahead Chris. I think, and you guys might
shun me for this, but I think for anyone like developers and developers in general,
to start developing for Linux, and Ubuntu's got a good start on it, but they need to,
it's going to sound weird, they need to close their source, and say this is how we want our
programs to run, give that source, give that ability to the distributors of games,
the other programs, and actually like, kind of like with Mac, how they sell their operating
system for $50 or something, and then I think developers of games and other leading edge software
would jump on the Linux bandwagon, if you will. And the Linux community would leave them behind
in drones and yell and scream. It would be a disaster of a business model for them,
that would pretty much get, unless they could line things up, which honestly so far,
canonical has not had a good track record of getting any of their commercial enterprises really
launched. Look at the Ubuntu TV stuff, that's a complete nutter failure, and their whole media
center idea, another complete nutter failure. If they do something like that, and it'd be another
complete nutter failure, nah, they're not going to get anywhere with that, and in fact,
shuttle worth would pull out and say, I'm done. I was going to, I was thinking something,
you pretty much said what I was going to say, it sounds like how if they do any close source stuff,
that's pretty much it, the distra is dead. I mean, I don't know if Chris Sousa or everyone's
going to call himself, there was about the copyright assignment policy in the Ubuntu for example,
that kind of fits into the sort of thing, because basically I don't mean that much about this,
but I think the general idea is sort of like if you have copyright assignment policy and the
developer then contributes code to Unity, that conical can then basically take all the rights to it,
and that can be, if they get any problems, then they come to the end of the whole thing,
but then some developers are going to be like, oh, I don't want to contribute to Unity,
because conical might do things I don't agree with with the code and all that kind of stuff,
and then a free software foundation apparently has some sort of copyright as some
policy or something like that as well, but that's bad enough, I've read articles in the past,
so you can't close source, because that just goes against everything, because it's an open source
project, so it's a free software, and then close source is a complete opposite, you can't just,
if they try to close source any of the stuff really, then like sound sales is a sad, that would
be pretty much it, and I mean even launchpad, which was, I think the open source more last
few years or something, but that was close source, it's like, you're in an open source community
and you're supposed to keep your stuff open source, that's kind of like sort of like it,
it's not really a rule, but it's kind of like what you would expect, it's a bit like the whole
fork thing as well, it's like, you're not meant to just go and take a project and fork it,
and make your own project, because you're meant to collaborate with the upstream projects,
and so on, and work together as part of the ecosystem, but occasionally a fork does happen,
because of some marist reasons, Leiborffist is an example of the Oracle owning the open
office, and there being issues with that, when it came to developers, Maggio is an example,
and the, quite a lot of the developers lost their job, for Mandarin, when things like that,
that forking is like seen sort of a last result, you shouldn't do that as well, it's kind of,
unless you really have a proper reason, that's kind of, at least that's my understanding of
the whole thing. They need to do, so in order to become extremely stable, they need to stop
relying upstream at all, and so what they've been doing is forking major parts of the operating
system that they need control over, as opposed to closed sourcing it, they now have complete
control over it, because they're the ones who control the fork, that of course mainstream Linux users,
or I suppose I shouldn't say mainstream, since most Linux users wouldn't consider themselves mainstream
at all, but a large section of, a large portion of Linux users are, I think, Ubuntu, because of this.
Yeah, I'm not mainstream. I mean, are you Raven? I don't know, someone else needs to say,
is that Marcus? No, that's not Raven. Yeah, it's back. It's me. I don't know, someone else
who doesn't say it on me, is that Marcus? Yes. Actually, the forking for Ubuntu is a bit, well,
yeah, I mean, some of us do a control, but I'll try to get in a different direction from most
other districts, so, well, yeah, there is some of that as well. The guy that I know that
is Tickman, he actually created a Starless, at least, and I think they've got a new vision
coming out this way. He's having huge trouble with the Ubuntu repos. I think they're going to
look at the switching to TV and the fuzzle, so there you go. How would you guys suggest that
developers of software like Adobe and big name developers like Activision and all the game
developers and other major companies? How would you, how would you guys suppose that Linux could
convert them to make native apps? Well, Adobe has made some maps of whether you really just flash
media for you, but I think, I think, I think, yeah, we can get a little bit confusing there,
because if one says to start thinking about distros, then they think about packaging and all that,
but I think the main thing is to, to, for commercial developer, to basically provide at least
the tar.gz or something like that, ideally, you know, because otherwise, all they can go
to the whole package route and make a death and make an RPM and all that, for various distros, but,
yeah, they want to... It's too much development time, I mean... Yeah, it's actually too much.
There you go. They want to make it easy for themselves, and it can, that's where it can get a bit
complicated, because of how everything's set up, but there are different ways to go in about it.
What's the very original way to do that? I think Tikmin is something to say. He's been trying to say
something for a while. Yeah, what they do is they release a tar.gz or tar.bz2 or something like that,
and as far as that goes, you can make proprietary apps and put them and natively put them on Linux.
Look at Steam. Steam is a proprietary client of Valve, and yet it's on every Linux distro now that
exists pretty much. I was thinking of Steam as well. Actually Skype is another one that actually
did provide packages for various distros. If you're on the Skype site, you'll say, at least
what I did before, it will say it's ready for this in that distro. Steam is...
I'm all saying Steam did... Oh, for the point slightly. It's probably for a
problem when we go out with you. It's all right. You might think. I'll just say you're probably
out like... With Adobe, you could look at the creative suite or whatever they call creative cloud now.
How many of those run natively in Linux without using wine without using... I guess Steam would work for
those, but without using wine or anything like wine? Well, as market share continues to shift towards
Linux, especially from my experience in education, they're going to be... Because people are going to
grow up with Linux, realize why should I be using this crappy Windows operating system? I can get Linux
just as easily as the school did. I know several people who have done that and then are
happily running Linux at home because they were introduced to it as school. I think that's going
to continue to happen over the years. Larger corporations are going to be forced to shift with the
market. I completely agree. As far as going back here full circle to my Ubuntu, when I was talking
about Ubuntu earlier, some people are angry with what they do and things like that. I must say
that I was when I first saw Unity and when I first tried it, I hated it. And I'm like, I will not
use Ubuntu again. This was 1104. 1204. What was I running? Ubuntu? Yeah, scroll on me a bit. I'm
still ecstasy and you know, ecstasy, you know, I think. But I'm trying, I think, I'll let me trade
a moment on some new Windows manager and I'm wanting my way around it slowly. Ashy, you can see,
I used to use Ubuntu for years actually and I was, you know, you get the new GNOME every six
months and all that. And for me actually partly why I started moving away from Ubuntu was because
of the GNOME2 patching that started in say, 2009 or after 8.10. And it's little things and
it's things that annoyed me though. And I was partly why I started kind of moving away and going
back to another scene where else I could run. And I did start with door go 2 and 4 saying that
anyway. But when they, when they came along with the Unity, I remember it was all going to be
right amount to 10.10. Unity is going to be in that book in face and you can run it from the
rep, wherever you want it. And I did that and I tried out on desktop and things like that. And
for Unity I thought was all right for, I mean the same at the end of the non-technical users and
it's all right. I felt GNOME shell always always have done. But you know, I see a point in Unity
and actually some of the features that I didn't like as GNOME2 patches were then features of Unity
as well and I thought fine, it's fine because because then it's a different interface. It's not
just patching of GNOME2, it's naturally a different interface and that was all fine with me.
I would still carry on using GNOME shell by choice there and stuff like that. But
I do believe that something like Unity is, and I'm really glad GNOME shell as well,
is needed as well because I believe that having different interfaces in general is good because it
gives the people choice and it's good to let people have choice. And I used to think years ago
before Unity and GNOME3, GNOME shell that a lot of the interfaces just look like Windows really and
that Linux needed something a bit more different and a bit more playing edge or everyone to say,
a bit more modern. And I then obviously GNOME3 came along in Unity and that's basically what
those are in my opinion. I would agree. And as far as teaching the masses about Linux and
you write about, if we, if people would introduce the Linux in schools, you know, they're going to
find it as just as easy as that. Sure. What I was saying is that again, you're right, if Linux is
introduced to children in school and they go home and they decide they want to run it at home,
they can get it just as easily as the school did. And as far as that goes, people will grow up with
it as you're right. And market companies will be forced to switch with the times because a company
that doesn't switch is going to be obsolete and they're not going to have anybody, you know.
Well, yeah, but you need something to win people over in that sense as well in that case. And at least,
I think probably a lot of the, I think a lot of the older people you could say are going to want
their windows like interfaces and so on. But I think in the case of younger people, a lot would
actually want to go for something like Unity or GNOME Shell. And, and I actually didn't have the
lug thing that's going to be doing. Well, cake, the interfaces that were decided by them,
not I wanted to name three in there and mine and the material, but that doesn't happen. But
that any, um, they thought like three interfaces, we're going to have an event aimed at non-technical
people, general public, as I mentioned earlier. And they decided that two or three interfaces,
because if for anything more would get a bit too confusing. So, if for windows like interfaces and
people like cinnamon, so we've got mint in there with cinnamon. And then there's going to be,
and then, um, some, I don't know, we've seen KDE and there's going to be KDE in there.
There's another district though. And then, um, uh, and then we, and then somebody joined us a
bit later on and he wanted the bun to and he pited all the reasons about why, why there should be
a bun to end. And I personally thought it was a bit strange to kind of having an event aimed at
the general public when you kind of don't have the most popular district, and that's the punty,
really. So, and then the whole, and then the whole thing about unity, and how actually
that would be good to show as well. But I still think Lone Shell should be in there as well,
but they disagree with me. I guess more, um, what, uh, look, I've noticed a lot of old people when
they see a bounty for the first time, even my wife actually goes, oh, pretty, it's like completely
different to what they used to. It does get their interest up. You know, if you show them net food,
you can move them on to other things because it's just completely different. It's quite easy to
use. If you've got someone you're talking someone through it. Yeah, I think this could, I think
this would apply to Lone Shell as well, really, or can do, but, um, so to really, what, what,
what I think is for this particular event, there should have been two when new likens fades and two
something else's, but, um, people disagree with me and yeah. So, um, you're, to your point about
the different age groups and their understanding has been my experience that you put an older person
down in front of it. They think it's cool and they play around with it, but as soon as they want
to get something done, they don't know how to do it because they're used to windows and they can,
they just cannot get their minds around how else you might do it. Put a kid down in front and they go,
oh, this is cool. This is new. They start exploring. They, they view it totally different than an adult
does because they have different things to do. They expect different things. They're used to going
from different types of phones, from Android to iOS. They're used to going from Macs to
windows and they go, oh, this is new. This is different. I'll play around with it. I find that
they are much, much quicker to learn new things and, you know, remember how it's done in this
operating system. I find adults just get frustrated because it's different. Also kids tend to
tinker more than adults do. They tend to rely on stability and things that they've already learned
and practice with and kids tend to look at something and take it apart and play with it and see
what it does and how it works and there's not really many adults that do that. Exactly. For example,
like, and I'm pretty young. I'm 18 and I showed my girlfriend, Ubuntu, and she's 17 and, you know,
we're out of the age group of kids kids where we like to take everything apart and play with it,
but we're still in an age group to where we could still, you know, we're still willing to learn
something and I gave it to her and on a live USB and gave it to her for an hour. Well,
I went to a different class and by the time I had came back, she was playing with it and it
actually installed it was using it. I'm like, uh, really? Did you ask her that, uh, did she know
she just lost all her downloaded music movies and porn? No, she didn't. She actually copied it all
over before she did it, but the thing is is she knew what she was doing and I'm like,
wait a minute, you figured that out in an hour and installed it without my help. I did not expect
that. I was not expecting you to do that. She's a nice person. She said, okay, it's the most
pretty nice people. Honestly, we're not even here on here to make backup these systems. No,
she's not a geek. That's the thing. She's not, but she figured it out. And this is Ubuntu.
She's classed. We're talking about what the sort of hacker was. So tick me under what
what he can mean. He's actually a hacker. People that like to change stuff around and go outside
the norm, what he came up with. A hacker is someone who uses something in a manner that it is not
intended to be used for. I define a hacker as anybody who's willing to learn learn something new
and experiment and play with stuff. That's what the truth, I think the true meaning of hacker
really is. People have made that word out to be a very bad, you know, menace that steals all
your credit card numbers and shops online using your name and stuff like that. That's really not
what it is. No, I think. A hacker is a, a hacker is a programmer apparently. And I said,
it had this earlier, but not with Techman. And I said, Richard Thalman, where apparently he
signs he has his little hacking for freedom saying whatever it was. And I think somebody said,
hacker, hacking could be those are different things. But the media, yeah, they make, you think it's
a computer embedded in all the rest of it, which is wrong. That's the cracker really. Or blackout
every like. So I always thought hacker meets hack like hacking to things like, um, even I never
even mentioned the true meaning to talk about. So there you go, I'll link something. I will tell
people next time, say, that one's a hacker. Yeah. So are we going to wrap up the
comments we had on the evangelizing Linux? With, with, uh, obviously everyone probably,
Mr. Misdui in their day to day life, you're probably showing people, encouraging people,
bringing it up in conversation. Um, but the Linux does not seem to have an overall scheme other
than mouth to mouth. Uh, Ubuntu doesn't run any large TV ads that I've seen. The rel, despite
their, despite their huge products aren't really targeting anyone outside of large enterprises,
therefore, they don't much, um, press other than in tech press. Um, what will it take for,
for people to realize, uh, in the, in the, I'm talking about traditional GNU Linux,
GNU slash Linux desktop environments, not your, your Chrome OS or your Android, what will it take
for everyone to realize that they need the freedom on their desktop that they need an open source
operating system? Yeah, people that get screwed over by their operating system and get fed up
with it, that those are the people that can be converted to Linux. Uh, everybody else,
uh, is, like, just worry about. Or people that can't afford it, which is the other thing,
I mean, I like when it's mainly because there's free, you know, I can still, I didn't have to buy
Windows 7, I didn't know anything about it in those days, and I thought, well, I'm starting,
you know, it's, it's, why not? I think it's there for people who want, who want to,
if you want to, if you want to go and find your alternative, okay, a little go to Mac,
but if people who look beyond may find Linux, but that's for the, um, TV ad, um, thing, I mean,
that does come up, that's come up, I mean, like, John and Bacon does this cute,
it's online, Q&A, for example, and here and there, and that's come up a few times, I think,
like, why does comic cool, or, or bungee, not have a TV advert? And basically, it's quite simply
because I think the, I think it's fully true, the answer is quite simply because the TV advert
is quite expensive to do, and, uh, apparently, it's an effort, I think it's fully, apparently
comic cool, don't make a profit, I think it's fully as a case now as well.
I actually think they have a, I think I'm beginning with a sub down to phone, correct?
We're from a destocking, another trying to make money, but I think they should advertise your
product. They need money for that, and apparently, you don't really have that money.
That's for Dell, um, and, and, yeah, Dell, putting a few bungee computers out there, and
other, make other OEMs here and there as well. I mean, yeah, they do that, but what,
what people use you say then is, oh, but if they start selling too much, if they start selling
too many machines with Linux on them, you know, general public are there, and it's known
about, and Microsoft might turn around and say, like, oh, you know what, I'm not going to give you,
we're not going to give you the discount on Windows to you anymore. That's what people, uh, have
always had, for a long time, has had a response to that one. Um, yeah, you're right, um, actually,
that has come up a lot of times in Jono Bacon's Q&As. In fact, I think I asked that one time
in one of them. Um, and yeah, they said it was too expensive, but I would think that if
all the Ubuntu supporters, all that could, at least, would put one dollar of their currency
towards doing that, I think they would get enough money to run advertisements, just one dollar
of everybody who's like an Indiegogo campaign like a bunch of ads, I mean, a bunch of ads
didn't get a overall goal, but that was a massive goal, 32 billion dollars, you know, I think it
was about 90 years, whatever it was at the end of, I think, no, more than that, but,
but yeah, maybe like an Indiegogo campaign or something like that, that might work.
They can actually do a lot cheaper if they don't really need to advertise on TV as such.
I'm just going to have to get a brand around, like get their brand mentioned on
CNN or something or do it or something and do that that way, but they don't like,
you know, it's what I think they should be doing. It's all weird to me, I think it's how Apple got
back and it's how, um, what Steve Jobs does, Jobs does do that. He just advertised the product pretty
much. I agree. If they were to be on interviewing on CNN or something like that or, um, you know,
some place on TV had like an Ubuntu logo in the background somewhere, and that might help a lot,
and if they, you know, they're little products they have, they're, you're right. If they did that
kind of thing, that would, that would help a lot and then possibly, you know, get them some money
somewhere or another, and then they could start running full-blown advertisements like Dell and
them do, you know, how they had the Intel and Dell commercials. I can see a drawback with that,
though, was like, okay, we've got this advertising and people saying that one, then people would go,
okay, we want to advertise on a Ubuntu. That could be a problem, which I think they're
getting down that road to the advertising right, so I won't. That's all right. So the problem
with advertising seems to be that there's not enough money in it yet, and that's because there's
no large enough market share yet. Um, nobody sells, distros, nobody really buys them because they're
free and it's really easy to download them. And perhaps if we encourage people to spend the 20 bucks,
the, you know, whatever it is, 25 to get the CD shipped to your house and give the developers a little,
you know, a little cut. Yeah, I agree. Why don't you talk about doing it? Why not put everything
on the flash drive and say, we'll ship it, you know, and you can buy it for 20 bucks. Well,
think about it. Of course, the issue with that is, is that large percent of Linux users will
never do that because it's so much easier to just download it and get it right now. But most Windows
users don't know how to do it. They don't know how to do it. Right. Another issue I can see is
now there are rolling releases and I upgrade, or when I was running Ubuntu derivatives, I was
doing it about every six months, changing distros. Um, and I just, with Windows, I could go three to
five years without ever buying a whole new operating system. Yeah, I'd buy Linux. It's much quicker
turnover, of course. So I think that's that way. All right. That means they're trying to try.
Right. I think it needs to be, I'm more longer. I think Ubuntu need to note the 12 months
longer for the releases, to be honest. Um, I don't think they should do that. I think they should
keep the pace of innovation the way they are. But I think that if they're going to ever, like,
put Ubuntu on flash drives and say, here, we're offering this. We'll sell it to you for 20 bucks.
I mean, yeah, ask, you know, ask a Windows user. Do they know how to, uh,
unit boot and an ISO onto a flash drive heck? Do they even know what an ISO is and how to get it?
And then say, or you could buy this for 20 bucks and, um, you know, do that. And the thing is,
is they should do the LTSs. That way, you're not like, they should put like 12 or four in this case
on a flash drive and ship it out for 20 bucks. And then when 14 before comes out, they should start
putting that on the flash drives and shipping them out. I think they're white. I think that, um,
well, yeah, the first of all, the release six runs release cycle, that's okay. Although,
kind of sport down from 19 months to nine months, not, not long-time sport,
so I'm a bit, I'm sure about that one because nine months really isn't that long
to have a history version supported for, that's like another issue. We're talking about that.
Maybe they should be going DB and like, okay, we'll release a market to be in distress,
so I can hear something rolling right. No, no, why? No, it has been talking here and there,
always is, well, they might get rolling release, but we're talking about like marketing,
staffing, USB flash drives and stuff, so I think, um, for a lot of these projects, or yeah,
Ubuntu, other districts, etc. That, um, what's important is to have good products in the,
in, say, an online shop, or if you want to, if you've got a standard, an event to have good
products at the event that people can buy, and, um, I'm, I'm, I'm a, I'm a deer person who is
community minded, but, um, this, well, but not, there are other people in this community as well,
who are, but it's a lot of developers are kind of boring control in general, but so, I'm a little
bit, so for this one, there's only two shirts and, um, stickers and, um, at the event normally,
or don't force them, uh, force them 2013, so I'm really decided to, um, try, he made some, like,
50, uh, Ubuntu, sorry, magia, um, USB card, cards, cards, and sold them at the stand for like,
10 euros or whatever it was, and, um, oh yeah, they all sold out, so, some, I mean, yeah,
USB, um, USB cards, or USB sticks that they can sell, and see these possibly as well,
people are more used to getting that for free, but I think, um, having, um, good products on the
stand is good, I mean, open tooth for a sample, they've got absolutely loads of products,
and they were not online shop, I've been looking in there, the, like, the other week and so on,
and they've got, oh, they've got absolutely loads of stuff on sale, and, you know,
mapping that's great, I think that's important, and, um, so, I think, uh, man, magia,
she really doesn't need to set up that online shop, I think it's been discussed here and there,
and no one's really done it yet, but, I think it's kind of cool, they also have an online shop,
but, as I wanted to say, I bought off that online shop, I've got a few t-shirts and stuff,
but compared to the, um, open tooth she won for example, it seems to be quite lacking as well,
I think, actually, what kind of products and what kind of are available, and because I think that's
important to have an online shop and stuff at events, because that's where, uh, obviously, certain
money can come in as well, and then you get your, it's all advertising as well and it gets to
think out of all. Yeah, I'm sorry, that's the way that I think of what the show should be there.
Another thing. Oh, oh, oh, actually, what I was going to say about Adam, Adam thing, um,
and Adam's, he, or something like that, I think that, I think it might work, but you really,
but it's kind of like, the time to change, it's not the 90s when, say, Mandryville was really
popular, or Mandrake, because it used to be cold, and just reasons like that, and when they
really did sell the, um, add on stuff, and it worked, because people didn't have fast internet
connections or stuff, it was dial updates, you know, um, but now we've got, man, no, move people
have ball bands, I, who, oh, I assume, who are using that, so you can just download this and that,
so I don't think it really works in the same sense, the same way to sell the add on things as
it used to do, or try to even, because you can just download this and that, and that's what people
used to doing, and I think that's also actually partly why Mandryville did lose a lot of it,
of the, uh, users before, because there was some issues, public, came up public, and, in the company,
and then, um, has distributions, has a bunch who kind of hit off for at the same time, and so on,
but, but yeah, what I was going to say is, I think that the, that USB thing is a good idea,
but I would go step further and say, yes, maybe they'll take a hit up front,
but in the long run, if they, if they ship, if, um, your bunch who shipped their operating system,
ISO format, on a 64 gig drive for 20 bucks, who wouldn't buy it?
Yep, they're going to have to do that, anyone can do that, anyone can post,
go and get stuck in my, for the bunch who want to put on a face drive and sell it for
them. Well, you, you had to sell the hardware, you cannot sell the software. Yes, actually,
yeah, you, you, you had to pull that stuff out. That's what I was saying, if they, if they did,
if they did that, if they sold a 64 gig drive with your bunch who ISO on it,
who wouldn't buy that for 20 bucks? Lots of people, basically, getting a free,
you know, a free 64 gig hard drive. Well, I was just, you know,
on a 64 gig drive. I was thinking more like an eight gig, I mean, more like a 10, uh,
yeah, eight gig flash drive or something like that. Not 64, you wouldn't, yeah.
I mean, I could buy, I could buy, I could buy 100 bucks, um, multiple, yeah, 1000 bucks,
by 200, 100 giganties just throwing it on, on, on it and go to the market and sell it.
Actually, there was a USB stick on sale in the conical store, I think that was looking,
but that was all sold out. So that's another thing, obviously, if you're going to sell anything,
you need to make sure there's enough stock. And I remember actually, there was a, um,
a keyboard on sale and it might still be, but the issue was the English layout,
quality, you know, that was all sold out, like a limited product or whatever.
We were going to make a keyboard that would be waterproof and you could fold it up and
travel with it and had the bunch to go on it. And the Chinese there was, was still there in the
radio pool, but who's going to not many people going to buy that as soon? Um, and another way,
oh, another way of advertising is like radio shows and things like that. If you, you know,
pay some radio co-hosts, just a little bit of money to advertise your product.
Well, look at all the internet radio shows and regular radio shut. There's tons of them around
the world. Right, but just getting the name out there is not what you need. I, in my opinion,
you want the, you want to, you want to make, you want to look really sexy. So you want to pull,
you want to, you know, drop it on the screen. It's super simple and you want to be on,
because you still have to explain what Linux is or what you've unto is based on. People are
going to look at it like there is windows, there is Mac, nothing else exists in their little, you know,
small corner of the universe, introducing a third party in there that then introduces so much
variation inside of Linux, organically. They also turn the door with staying with people.
So you have to, you have to break it down to its most essential parts. I don't know if that's
easy to do on radio. I don't know if it's adding, adding the visual layer can, you know, show people
that this is actually easy to use, that this is a, in a very usable state at this point,
is, and then you underline its stability, its security, you know, the software center, if they ever
get around to redoing that. I think the software seems as a big seller for Ubuntu.
I come, if you make it look good, look they have, and you have a vaccine, they make sensors, what
you mean, one likes about, you know, Apple stuff, what my wife goes on about. She likes the fact she
can just go and get it out and download it for free. She, you could be there, and then it should
be quite pain, I can't, this is easy, you know, just go and get it.
I think, yeah, the, well, software center is, it's all right, but, in the case of Andrew,
I'm sorry, yeah, Andrew, you've all my dear, PC and XOS, we've got something called the
graphical control center, which is a feature that most distributions lack. And that's a very
nice control panel, because unless you configure, it's like a launcher, unless you configure,
your, your printers, whatever you're doing, or you use your account, or load up that,
let you into the install software program, and that's a nice feature. But,
I like the, what? Like the, I'm just going to set into many things.
Yeah, the graphical control center, and those, those, this is a good feature.
That's what the software center in Ubuntu, what I was going to say as well is,
when it, I remember 2009, when it was like a new feature, and it got put into a Ubuntu,
and I was using a Ubuntu, that was my main distro, and once I started moving away of course, but
they were trying to, anyway, the, the, it was all right, but I always first and after,
personally, and I would still to this day, really. And, but also, what I wanted to say here is,
to, I was reminded of myself for something else as well, to all link to this, but more recently,
GNOME is actually, they've got their, it's like their own software application,
points, all link software and distro, and it's only a developer preview in the GNOME 3.10,
but they, I think for 4.12, a bit more feature complete at the end of March for that one.
And also, there was an idea to actually make, having a Ubuntu software center,
well-like program called AppStream, in the other distributions, so for Dora, Debian,
Magia, and Open2C, and there was a discussion, I think happened in France,
when we came from Nigeria and so on, and had like a discussion, it was the 2011 this discussion,
but nothing much happened with this project, because of whatever, but, but the whole reason,
there will, you might, you might think, okay, well, the other districts wanted, these other
districts wanted an Ubuntu software center-like program, but why didn't they just put in the
Ubuntu software center itself and rebrand it, whatever, because I think the reason was because of the,
copyright assignment staff to do it on the call, but, but what, what, what is good as well,
what I think is good is to have something that's going to be cross-distro, like what GNOME is doing,
or sample, that, you know, any district can put in, but although saying that you do need these kind
of tools at times that have a bit more district-specific, because then you've got your differences
between districts. I'm actually adding to that point, I'm using Fedora currently, and I'm using
GNOME 310, 3.10.2, and I'm actually using the GNOME software manager thingy,
mbub, and yeah, you're right, it is more of a developer preview right now, but it gets the job done,
it does work, it gets the job done, and it gets it done quite well, maybe somewhat simple,
but it gets it done, and tying back to commercializing, the way I found out about Linux,
and this was two years ago, was my friend was reading an article in some magazine, I think it was,
I think it was an online magazine, and came across them talking about Ubuntu and showing screenshots
of it and things like that in the online magazine, and he looked at it and loved it, and he's like,
dude, I think you would love this, and he gave it to me, and I tried it, and I'm like, dude,
this is awesome. That's a bit like me, actually, because I've
used it in that since, say, 2004, I've got an old family computer, when I became 17, it became mine,
and I realized I can do whatever I want with it, basically, and so I had a friend from school
who, like, he was a really clever person, like, kind of a computer, and so on, he would,
he used Slack, but he would, he got me into open source a bit, like, go use CYD, when, when,
in Windows, go use Models, who go use this DevC++ and things like that, but he would never,
when it came to Linux, he would never would say, go use this or that district, really say, look,
I'm not going to tell you what district it's used, go, go pick your own, so he,
so I ended up picking between Debian and Fedora and Fedora, because it said,
free, and I'm thinking free of the price and all that, so, and then the whole thing about
taking four hours to install on your computer, 128 megabyte RAM, and all the CDs and all that,
and you're going wrong, and meeting free installs, including the ones that were grubbed,
and all that kind of stuff, and then, and then another somebody else basically introduced me,
in 2005, and somebody else from school who kind of said, you know, why don't you try out this
Ubuntu, it's, it's quite popular, and it's quite, it's going to be quite good, and yeah,
I used that from the second release in 2005, quite aptly until 2009, and then I became more,
a bit more educated about things like upstream is for start, because when I was younger,
I didn't actually know upstream was, in fact, I, um, I did try out some live CDs a bit later on,
and things like that, but I, what, I didn't actually know upstream was for, for a while, so,
what I found is, what, something I noticed was that all these distrares, they tend to,
they'll tend to look the same pretty much, I didn't know why until later on, but, yeah, that's,
and that's how the story goes, and I went to other distrares, found out more, and so on, and yeah.
Um, I think that if we started putting distributions, especially Ubuntu,
since their goal is popularity, into considering I found it, and we found it in a magazine,
my friend, uh, my friend Dustin, and then he showed it to me, because he thought I would love it,
because he saw free, and open source, and I didn't know really what open source was,
but knew what free was, and we'd been looking for something new, and we loved playing around
with computers, we loved it, and so he showed it to me, and I'm like, dude, this is awesome,
and so I think that if we did Linux like Ubuntu flyers and new articles in like magazines,
online magazines, and things like that that are read often, then that might help, because we got
introduced to it from a magazine, so what if you had like a really awesome article about Ubuntu,
and then had like a couple of screenshots of it working, and you got that into like, I don't know,
maybe the New York Times technology section.
It doesn't necessarily have to be Ubuntu, but obviously that's kind of being the example,
I mean, this could be, this could apply to any industry, really, and, of course, and, uh,
something like that, yeah, and um, but um, obviously, it's magazines are really good for
start, but you're talking about going a bit beyond that, but um, I think I've read online at least,
a few Linux articles from the New York Times, your example, and then there's also a blogger
who, um, how am I going to go, she's called out, she's capping something, uh,
lawyers or whatever, or something like that, she writes for PC world, and, you know, so,
online there's that, and you're talking about getting into the normal mainstream, uh,
media, which can be a bit difficult, although, I've seen PC now, so as we mentioned on BBC
Click, for example, which is a UK technology program aimed at the kind of average person who has
at least some interest in technology, so, and occasionally, they've mentioned the Ubuntu in
the past as well, but, but yeah, it's different to get it out into the more mainstream, um,
media, news, or, but there's a huge problem with that though, the mainstream doesn't want to look at
a community of multiple districts, because you need to explain which one is good for this,
by the law, that's why most of the time you see coverage is about Ubuntu only, and because Ubuntu
is the largest one has the most market share, um, if you take into account every like the entire
percentage of the community, Ubuntu has the majority, and they also have the marketing,
so people know that name, and they are okay with, um, people are okay with talking about them,
because people have heard of them in some way or another, but when it comes to like, um,
open susah, or fedora, it's very hard to explain the difference between the two, or we're
explaining the difference between any of the other districts really, because most people have never
heard of them, and they're, when they hear Linux, they hear the, you know, the hacker thing,
the, the, the, the servers, distro, or the server system, or whatever like that, so they're just
having a weird fear about it. It's like a public industry system, I'm sorry, I need to be quick,
sorry, Windows and Apple, both have a public industry system, about, um,
Linux for a long time, I think they do see Linux as a threat, so they just fear the users,
mainly, oh, it's not them doing it, but they have, they didn't, they didn't help that situation.
Okay, thank you. Thank you. And then how on your point, I'll do mine after.
All right, why don't, in, in that case, if you want to market Linux correctly, why not,
and I know we have other distro fans in here, and I'm, I don't know what I'm a fan of at this
point, because I use pretty much everything at least once, but, um, why not market, just a bunch
and the reason I say that is it may make other distro people mad, but what if we, you know,
what if people marketed Ubuntu only, and then of course, once you got into Ubuntu and started
looking into the resources and everything, you would end up learning for yourself, eventually,
most, you know, some people would end up learning themselves and then going to other distros of
their choice, because that's what I've done, like I was introduced to Ubuntu and started digging
through the resources and found mentions of Debian, and so I looked at that, and then I found,
you know, mentions of other distros, and then I found like distro watch and went and look at that,
and, you know, like distro watches are big flying for people. I won't say this together,
what distro watch does. See, I mean, for me, it was OS GUI, like OS GUI here as we patch,
and next we all the YouTubers stuck on a start on, they were starting to put, yeah, is that
even though they were pretty bad in those days? Just too much, just too much, just awful.
I know this, it's not too new for it, but I've looked around, there's no love,
I haven't found a site yet that actually does what distros does, because I don't like distro watch
and how they do it, and also I tell you that charging pick just distros, you know, which I don't like.
That's fine, the distro watch has many things that make it awesome, and many things that make it
horrible. Like, the ranking system doesn't work because what they're saying is, like Linux
Men has been like number one for the past four or five months or something, and there's so
many more users on Ubuntu as ridiculous. I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't,
I'm a stupid distro, it's, it's half the problem, let me just carry the EASC CA and
Cinnamon, it's all count of its one distro. No, they're not. Actually, you know, the thing about
that is, while you guys want to fall distro watch on that, I actually believe, because for a long time,
for several years, Ubuntu was the number one distro on distro watch. There have been several
events that have driven a lot of people off on Ubuntu, and I believe that's what's actually
affected the, the count on distro watch. I mean, I don't, I don't think it's as, as, as fake as
anybody wants to think that it is. I have a feeling that it is actually accurate. No, I, I just,
I think it, I think it may actually be more accurate than most people think.
Because Ubuntu has actually really lowered themselves in, in the overall Linux community in,
over the past couple of years. Ubuntu has lowered itself, but it still has a massive market share,
it's still the most used distro of all, and the, the distro watch thing only applies to people who
go to distro watch, and the people who are on Ubuntu typically don't go to a distro watch,
they never heard of it. Um, I think, if you go to the weekly steps, but they're, they're a lot more
accurate, I think, about what people are using. I think it's quite high if you go to last month,
on it. I was simply, I was, I wasn't saying that distro watch ranking system is what makes the
bad, it's a bad site. I mean, it's great for having getting news about what distro has words,
what it's based on, the download pages access is very nice that way.
Distro watch, yeah. Um, actually, my deal was number two, uh, what, yeah, it went down,
last few months or so on distro watch, but for about, let's see, for maybe, yeah, quite a lot of
last year, was it here before 2012? It was number two on, on, on distro watch, and then,
obviously it's gone down since then, but point is, distro watch is done on paid fused,
and so, my deal has been amounted, first of all, it was, uh, due in 2011, and then say,
a year later, it became number two on distro watch for about a year, or something like that,
but point is, distro watch is done on, on, on, on paid fused, so, what, what really shows is,
is not the installs, but it shows you the kind of general interest in a distro,
has somebody mentioned how you can go back a week or six months, you can, or a week or a month,
there's that as well, you can look at that week or a month and sort of see what distro was
popular, so, as I was a new fedora at least, for example, then obviously fedora is going to be higher
up. Right, but the page, it's not purely page for you, I've talked to people who run distro watch,
they say there's like ten different elements that they used to do the ranking, but they wouldn't
tell me what they were. Well, they officially did its pay views, or whatever, but, and then,
there was a good article that said, there was a thing before about a bunch of going down
on distro watch, and how, I think, maybe, somebody from Connacol, they're bunch of people, or somebody
said, basically, it kind of said, oh, you know what? I mean, isn't that populous? Isn't that
populous? So, apparently somebody said this, so they were like, why don't we just all go on
distro watch and pick some on their own distribution, and then, like, keep on going on the page and
not being the ranking, you know, I don't know if anyone members this. I'm hearing someone
doing it with Magia, I'm just saying, period. Some of these people with Magia, is that what you
saying? I was just joking, I'm just saying, I hear that, we're always hearing someone's doing
it with Magia. No, I said it went down on distro watch, but I think the reason it went up in the
first place, and what it did was because it was quite a new distro at the time, and still, and
it had to slad some of that, oh, so, when Dree before, some of the new interests were still there,
and so, it went up and people, and there's a whole, also, what's Magia, what's this, what's that?
So, if you look at it in the page, and then, you know, these comes out, and another
release comes out, and, you know, the distro isn't really a new distro anymore, or not a
section, you're getting used to some of that new interest that there was, all you can do, but
that's just kind of areas, but yeah, distro watch is done on payviews and all that, and
that gives you, it gives you kind of an idea of what is popular at the time, and I think that's
the main thing, or what people think, but mint being most more popular than a bunch, in a way,
kind of, might be sort of, but there's a lot of users that we don't really know about,
I'll probably be using mint now, but here's to the ISE channels, it's actually quite a small
community on ISE, but on the other hand, it's on a different network, as well, where there's
a bunch of channels on pre-news, and there's a very noons, there's a lot of idlers, but that's
any ISE, but it kind of sort of shows that a bunch who is probably more popular in service on ISE.
Well, that's popular by far, in many ways, but going back to the point of distro watch,
I was just pointing out that distro watch shouldn't be used as any kind of sense that
people shouldn't learn about Linux, because distro watch is a good source for information,
but it's not a good source for, like, what to choose, like they even have a guide about choosing
a distribution, and it is useless, incredibly interesting. Yeah, I agree with that.
And for one thing, yeah, the socket of the padlock, this is just amazing. The socket of the padlock
will go to the top two distro users, so I can type all of the topology, they just go deep
because they're the top, and then they're collecting it, and they're going to what the hell's
there, and they're collecting something else. So, I'm talking about the actual guide they have,
they're talks about. Yeah, the guide, I agree too, the guide, I tried that guide, it doesn't,
in a lot of things. Yeah, the main thing is, well, for the distro, the only one who cares about
distro having users is wherever I mean, the main thing is to try and be in the top 10 for those who
care about that, for those who don't, then, I guess, whatever, if it's down on number 40,
the distro is somebody likes, and I guess it doesn't really matter, but the top 10 is probably what
people, the injury are going to be clicking through most people, but like if they go to Google,
apparently a lot of people, and you go to say page three at most, or maybe five, depending on
the search, you know, and ideally you want to be on the first page, maybe the second, but
ideally the first, you know. Right. I'd say the, of course, going back to the whole point
about what tech brought up, is that Ubuntu is being like the one people that promote,
there's also a negative in that, because basically kind of unknown. Yeah, I wonder when there
we have Ubuntu is going. I would be surprised if Ubuntu offers them, like, having a million
backs and they get a sell-off, sell-off, get them to surprise me, you know. Well, I'm just saying
that Ubuntu, like, their goals are kind of like up in the air right now, they've, they've changed
the way Unity's being built, like, with different languages about four times now, and they don't even,
they pretty much, they seem to not know what they're doing, and I'm a huge fan of Ubuntu for like
legacy reasons, like, I started using Linux a long time ago with like Debian in 99, and it was
such a pain that I had, I pretty much was never even considering doing a primary system,
and having isn't my daily driver, and then Ubuntu comes around and makes it so much easier
that made Linux, you know, completely usable for, you know, almost 99% of what I do.
So that was an awesome thing, so I still have, you know, that little clinging, that hold onto
Ubuntu, like, hoping they do what, you know, they claim to do in the beginning, which they said
they're going to make it, make Linux easy, and they did, so maybe they're going to make, you know,
the phone system easier, and so I'm, you know, fingers crossed, but right now, it's so, it's such a mess
that telling people to use Ubuntu just doesn't seem right, and there's no other
distra right now that has everything in the position that makes me comfortable telling you
like, here's, if you've never heard of Linux try this, like compatibility issues Ubuntu is the
most compatible, but the dash and unity is not very user friendly at all. I mean, the dash is just
a gigantic mess of garbage. If you put someone who doesn't know how to use Linux on it, they give
them unity, they will have no idea what the dash is for, 99% of them will just use the launcher,
if you put their apps there, and then if you show them how to search in the dash, they'll search
for the only of the apps they ever use, and then that's all they do. So the dash. I think that
depends, but I'm going to, if I should, oh, I guess I'm going to find this out, or to some extent,
if it's, if it's true that Unity is bad for the so-called target audience as well or not, because
human people actually come to this event, because I've KD and Cinnamon there as well to choose from,
and to me I was going to say earlier is, for this event, they, the other people,
well, what they've decided, they don't really want people to think about this truth, so,
well, it's not too much, so it's going to be more about the interface, it's going to be mainly
about interfaces, and remasters with some local branding or whatever, and the same pre-installed
programs in general, and people are going to pick an interface, and that's the idea. So it'll be
interesting to see what what what people actually pick, and, um, you know, to turn up to this thing.
Are you taking bets? I'm not taking it. I think I, yeah, we're not just people picking on it.
Like what they'll pick? I'm not doing bets, but I don't understand. I want to, I want to go with like
40% and now 60% Cinnamon, and then the rest is going to be like Tulsa between KD and Unity.
Yeah, that police sounds bad right, although some of them really think Cinnamon is, like, where is that,
and so on, but, you know, it'll be interesting to see what happens for real.
Cinnamon, I don't, I don't, someone still needs a word, some of the screencasting and stuff,
I can't use Cinnamon on my screencasting, so I just can't start away from it.
Use simple screen recognition, it's perfect.
I go straight, still, still, like simple screen recognition, still goes,
freshness, when Unity goes, when me and you still have that word.
You need to, then, someone is, you can just look at it, like, I can talk to you later somewhere
about fixing it, because I use Cinnamon daily, and I've never had that problem.
It's fine if you're not, like, maybe a mouse to mean you, or you're, I mean, you can't use it
as fine as time. I've never had it crash period, so I'll look at you later.
Cinnamon, yeah, Cinnamon, I've, you know, I've, I've used Mint and so on as well,
so Cinnamon, I installed that, and it was, I've used that a bit in this night, Cinnamon,
Alex, D, F, C, to me, they're just, I don't think much the same,
when it's Mint that does that. Although, yeah, KD will look similar, probably in Mint as well,
I'll be honest. But, you know, yeah, there's all these, you've got, you've got,
kind of, Windows-like interfaces, and really KD is one of those as well, even though,
if you want to, if you go anywhere past the desktop and start going to settings,
it's, you can do all, you can do loads of stuff, and you can get them met with your panel,
have your icon moving around and all the rest of it, but, you know, but yeah, you basically,
on the next one, on the next, we basically got, uh, Windows-like interfaces, and, uh, kind of,
old-school interfaces, open-box, flux-box, um, and all that kind of stuff, and, and then more
recent, we've got these kind of modern interfaces that, that's, um, I'm referring to Unity and
Jamshel, like, them free, Jamshel. I'm seeing, you need to go like, um, if, you're mentioning it,
you want to get rid of me, just, you're just seeing what I do when I get to five o'clock in the
morning, these other guys will keep me at that time. You were mentioning the fact that we don't
know Ubuntu's future, and so you wouldn't necessarily like recommending it, um, I don't really
like Unity. I don't think Unity is user-friendly for, if you're like a Mac user going to Linux,
then Unity is great. If you're a Windows user, it's like a 50-50 shot, whether it just blows up in
your face or not. They might like it, they might just say, oh, I don't want to learn this, all this
new crap. Uh, you're going to make me learn this, this dash thing, I don't want to use this
dash thing. I was just launcher, with, with like, something like Cinnamon, you say, hey,
use his menu, it's kind of like start menu, they click it, and they're good.
Yeah, it's a little bit, how do I do it? Yeah, and I was thinking, with, you mentioned that
Ubuntu's kind of up in the air, would they don't really know what they're doing, and I completely
agree with that. And so I must say that if I had to recommend any other distros, it would have to
be either mint, because of Cinnamon, and the fact that it looks so much like Windows, even though,
you know, it's not, or if you want to get even more Windows-like Zorin. Yeah, but Zorin is,
it's kind of like light in what it can do. So the, the, the, the, the claim to fame of Zorin is to
have those, like the XP and the Windows 7 menu and things like that, which is nice. But once you get
using it for three or four months, it's, you outgrow it very quickly. I think, I think it's even
amazing. Well, I think people try Zorin and go, oh, this is okay. I want to get somewhere else.
I think I do that within the face style you're using it. Well, I'm a huge fan of mint,
and the sense is like what they're doing. And I, I would suggest people use mint, but the problem
with it is that their lack of upgrades structure is kind of hard to tell people to use it unless
they've are, you know, experienced. What about maybe the GNOME Ubuntu release, the, um, the Ubuntu
GNOME release? Well, GNOME has the same shoe that Unity does. It's an interface that they have no
familiarity with, and they're going to have to learn from scratch. So, sorry, if you walk them through
it, it's not that bad. You know, I mean, Unity is not that bad if you walk through it, but not
everybody wants to be walked through. They just want to look at it. They just want to like, you
know, use it. So I've set up mint for people who have never used a computer more than opening,
like internet explorer and stuff like that. I mean, that's how, um, the fact that I didn't even know
that it mostly existed, you know, that kind of thing. So I've set up mint for them and they've
never had a problem. But if I gave them Unity and didn't walk them through the process of how to
use Unity or GNOME or stuff, or like, maybe even open box too. But like, there's, there's not really
any good DEs other than, I'd say KDE is close, but the, the, how much configuration you have to do
to get it right where you want it is overwhelming to most people, most new users anyway.
So cinnamon to me is kind of like the sweet spot, but then it's linked with mint that doesn't
have an upgrade thing. So I mean, I love their updater, you know, for their packages, but the fact
that the distro can't update by itself is negative. Actually, cinnamon, well, there's, you know,
some other distrares now as well. So you don't have to use it in mint, but although it is pretty much
things, so yeah. Right. I mean, in the sense that with mint, you also get the, you know, the code
experience style and things like that, it's, it's, it's pretty set up for you to just kind of give
to someone and they'll be able to use it. There's a few things you might need to tweak and things
like that, but for the most majority of the time, it's just ready to go. And with Fedora, you could
put cinnamon on Fedora, but you said, I'd just set everything up for them. I think cinnamon's getting
quite good. I did try the two point. I really, so I do like cinnamon. I've always liked cinnamon.
I think the way it's, I think Max clone easy, easy, easy, when those minutes are too, I think
cinnamon's going the right way. I think, you know, it gives you the ability to have like a nice
DE structure, but also do with 2.0, you have the cinnamon tiling system, which is so nice,
because if you're like a tiling manager, also want a DE, it's, it's, it's perfect. It's like the best
of both. I mean, just the way you can download the things, like how you can make your whole
guest up completely different. I know you can do that in minutes and banter them.
Well, that's a no, I mean, that's based in no, that's not really a cinnamon specific thing.
No, they have got some nice things. Just make them find less.
What about, and if you're saying that the, the complex desktop environments are too much,
unless you walk them through it, cinnamon is mainly linked with mint, and you say that doesn't
have an update, a good update structure, which I completely agree with. What about the simple
things like Lubuntu and Zabuntu, XFCE and LXDE, they're very simple. It's Windows 2000,
it's like, but it's got a good update structure, because it's Ubuntu, and it's got, you know,
a very simple desktop environment that you can just click a menu and click a hover over an internet
short cut and Firefox web browser pops up. I might get some flak for this, but I like to call
XFCE XVCs, because it, it's built on GTK2, the development team of GTK, of XFCE, has specifically said
they have no plans to upgrade GTK3. So when X-Wailing and Wailing comes out, XFCE will be dead
essentially, because it will have no support, and they have no plan, no goal to even fix that.
LXDE, on the other hand, I'm actually excited to what they're doing with the Razer QT merge,
so right now LXDE is great for lightweight desktops, but I wouldn't give it to someone who has a
good, who has a good computer and can sustain something else, because if they could run a more
flushed out polish DE, they'll like that better than having a faster one. And if they have
like a really old computer, I'd definitely give them LXDE, even, even before the QT merge.
Are you talking about LXDE? Oh, LXDE is quite a nice friendly distro for it, but you know,
no, we're talking about desktop environment LXDE. It's based off LXDE, it's sort of got some nice
wallpapers and stuff, but it's just a respawn, but it looks quite nice. I was thinking of
LeBluntu, actually, like using either like, if they have an older type computer or something,
either recommending Mint or Mint 4, if you have like a really good computer, because the fact that
it has Cinnamon and Cinnamon is a nice flush, I know the update structure is weird, but you could,
you know, people could be taught that how to fix that, or LeBluntu, if you have an older machine,
the update structure is better, but it's simpler, desktop environment.
I like LeBluntu. There's a few issues I have with it, for example. It's the lightweight distro
that runs default with Chromium, that is stupid. That's not a lightweight browser, that's the most
bloated browser you could possibly put in a distro. So how is that being lightweight? I don't know.
I actually would say that peppermint would be a better solution than pep LeBluntu, just because
you get the benefits of LeBluntu, but it's also a little bit lighter. So if the hardware is an
issue, peppermint would probably be the better choice, but if they want the best, the most up-to-date,
then absolutely LeBluntu is going to be able to, because LeBluntu updates as much as LeBluntu does,
whereas peppermint is usually like a couple of ones behind.
Yeah, I'm not sure about how well they're working on peppermint though. They tend to be like
tight huge breaks in the sleep of fricking things. I'm more worried if peppermint would be how much
developers are actually working on it. Well, peppermint people don't typically do their six-month
cycle. They do like an eight-month or like sometimes even a year cycle. So they have like,
I think four major releases right now. I did like peppermint four. I did try. There's nothing
wrong with it. I mean, I want to like LXDA things. So I think you're asking for those drugs because
I'm not going to do that here. I'm just going to say that in my dear, this is just for my user
point of view when I've tried out what I found is some personal stuff. But why,
when I, when I, when I don't really support LXDA in XC and all these other windows,
I'm trying to repose and I'll be mate and cinnamon from RGF4. So it's about supporting KD
and gloom with ISO by default mainly. So when I did try out LXDA in Magio and XFCE and
I just, I think all of my was at XC. I really liked the fault layout and stuff and that's pretty much
the same as my dream, I think anyway. But that's all because of personal opinion, how it's set by
the fault, a particular interface. But that's important to me in general, how a distribution is
set by the fault, where the icons are and things like that. That's just all personal stuff.
Okay, I would just two things, one, one to respond to Techman earlier and Seb just now when
you're talking about, like if you would ignore the technical fallbacks of XFCE, it's actually a
pretty good DE. The, it's got a lot of awesome features like the control of the panel system is
so vast, the multi multi monitor setup is great. The LXDE is a layer DE, but it's also like
very simple in features, it doesn't have as much as XFCE. So if you want a lightweight DE
that has a ton of features, XFCE is probably the best one. But when it comes to the technical issues
in the future, it's going to be a problem. Right now, it's not. So really, I guess who cares.
But when, so if you like a distro and they come with XFCE and you like the way it looks,
do you know, whatever, you know, that's the best thing about Linux, whatever you use what you want.
But when tech you said something about not putting man, I did hear about, yeah, the thing about
XFCE and they were dedicated to it, I knew about that as well. Okay, I don't know about XFCE,
so it's, you know, it's a lot lean new things, so it's good. I hear that LXDE is about to hear
that update as well. Someone in here was saying that last night, well, they're having an update,
but they're going to have a new version coming out soon. Razer QT is also having a new version,
but the two environments are actually merging together. So it's LXDE with the QT base. So that's,
I'm excited for that. That's going to be like a year from now though. Okay, so they had
like a tasting. Well, no, if you if you try Razer QT, you kind of know what it's going to look like.
It's like the newest version of Razer QT that's coming out. I think it's like a month or two.
That's going to be the last version that Razer QT releases.
Oh yeah, these are QT. I like that as well. I've been using that recently here and there.
Yeah, it's a nice one. It's going to be gone after the next release is the final release they'll
ever do with crazy QT because LXDE and Razer QT are merging together to make one, you know,
to make one super DE, I guess. I don't know what you want to call it, but it's I'm excited for
that one. Oh yeah, I think I have a best thing about that as well. Yeah, but they would take
our old said about cinnamon on a lightweight. I'd actually argue that cinnamon is a good DE
for lightweight because it's it's it's got it's got a lot of and it's not like if you got a 512
meg ram, it's not going to work. That's way too little. But if you have like a gig or more,
it's going to be fine. It's not going to be the, you know, the best of the most peppy or whatever,
but it's still going to be usable DE because it has a lot of cool features like a it's but it's
not like so much that it's overwhelming the hardware like KDE would be. But I would still argue
if you have a really old computer then definitely something like LXDE, maybe XFC if they're like a
not going to update very much. Yeah, surprising. I'm surprised nobody's in this discussion is the
mentioned BOTY. Oh, you mean so BOTY uses element 17. Right. Oh, that didn't they release us
at 18 recently? Yeah, I don't think you're going to see it in the wild at least on any it probably
not in it on any distro for a couple of months, but yeah, 18 just came out. Okay, well 18 at 17,
I'm a fan of its flexibility. It looks like crap when you first run it. I think it's just
not it's not as bad as some of things, but but it has the ability to be very nice and the flexibility
and the lightness of it is really cool, but I would like kind of argue it's not there yet for a
desktop environment, although it's it's getting close. I haven't tried 18 yet, so I don't I can't really
say whether they've how much they've improved or not. I've used it, you know, this is going to sound
like I'm complaining at something stupid. I think it just looks pretty lame. As far as the design
of it, I mean, it's very simple. It's good, but it looks pretty corny. It kind of reminds me of like,
I don't know, an interface you'd see on some TV show where they just threw it together and
there's really no there's not much effort put into it as far as design wise. I used it for a couple
months exclusively on on Macpub and it worked just fine. I just didn't like it very much.
Did I look forward to trying 18 but haven't done it yet? And they planned they plan a
Wayland support, so that's really good with that. They're one of the few they've already like
set up support for it, aren't they? I don't know. I mean, all I heard was that they plan on going
Wayland, so it's like XFCE aka XVCs that has no plans. There you go.
Yeah, you're welcome, but he's not he's not happens in the right way pretty pretty.
It's just I'm not a really huge big fan of XFCE and I don't I don't hate it, but XVCs just
fits so perfectly. Well, I'm using window maker, which has absolutely no plans whatsoever. And
it's probably not I mean, I hope it gets brought over, but if it does and I'm going to wind a little bit
and end up switching to something else like open box if it comes over.
I like the box. Have you tried the jar? I've tried the box since I've written it. It's quite a nice
release. I've tried the jar box. I like the way the jar is going. They're sort of the
mental batch community. This is probably what I get a big brave. I ran into some technical issues
with it though. It was not using it got to the point where it wasn't using my RAM and my swap.
And the memory usage was at 100% and after messing with it for a while I said screw this.
I'm going back to Abian. Yeah, it's not here for you. I talked to some of the majority of these
a couple of days ago and you'll be a member of Roy. That they that they're just saying it's
going to be a good discussion though. I'm actually scared of Menjaro because they had an art they
had an interview a like a month or two ago where the guy who's the main developer of Menjaro said
they were going to not be using arch in two to three years. No, I think they said they weren't
using arch for something and it was misunderstood as something else. No, he came back he came back
and then there was a forum a huge forum and I was like this like probably like 500 like post on
the forum and he basically posts a YouTube video that doesn't explain anything else. He just
tries to act like he was explaining what he meant and he makes it more confusing. So they never even
really explained what they were doing. Yeah, I'm cobras on that. I'm cobras as well GT today but he's
actually. What I was going to say was I can't remember now. Yeah, for me, I mean I couldn't
store Menjaro right now. I actually mean to put up that act for it. So anything that I can
lean on lean from, you know, that's good. I don't mind stuffing easy. I'm not talking about the
easiness. I mean, yeah, Menjaro is easier than arch but it's not and I wouldn't say this is
going to sound elitist and I'm just going to preface that with I'm not elitist about arch.
I prefer arch but in the sense of like the whole conversation of Menjaro is not arch,
that's totally true. But I'm not saying that there couldn't be something built on top of arch
that could be beneficial to someone like Antergos is a great distro because it's like arch.
You don't know how much I wanted Antergos to work, but it would not work on it.
That's an exciting knee around repose off the Menjaro repose. No.
No, no, no. Antergos is basing their repose off of arch. The arch official repose and the AUR
is it's a completely vanilla usage of those of the arch repose. It's not using its own extra
fake stabilized crap like Menjaro is. Like Menjaro basically says they're going to hold stuff back
for security purposes and to make it stable. Sure, three people with 10,000 packages. Go ahead,
give it a shot. I think it's pretty dumb myself, but at the same time when an update came in,
just after it had came out, they did have Firefox 26 out. So I mean, it was a bunch too. That's not an
example. We got it. Well, Ubuntu doesn't, it's well established and they have tons of people,
so I mean, that would be everybody because you can basically just get the updates from
Mozilla's like directly from them and they'll give you the updates. You don't,
you can do a PPA with them. You can do that OBS with them. You don't necessarily need
the distro to back it. You just don't know how much I want it in terror goes to work though. But
what it did was it stalled during the install during the end just kept doing it just no matter how
many times I redid it. Okay, I'm just taking the size of landing you guys can go to the people in
here at the moment. This is a little bit, I guess off topic now, but I actually kind of agree with
what was mentioned earlier instead of actually showing people distros to use, show them desktop
environments, let them choose what desktop environment they like and then give like a list,
kind of like maybe like a two or three list of recommended with that desktop environment.
Well, that's, I mean, that's absolutely perfect in a sense of an an event situation or you're
walking through someone about what they want to use the Linux or you go to like a have like some
kind of on the street styles set up like KDE did at one point. That kind of thing, it works perfect.
But you can't talk about the DEs without the distros when you're talking about marketing to get
people who have never tried it. So in the sense of like showing them interfaces, that's outstanding
for like a conference or a lug or something or a meetup or whatever. But when it comes to like
getting the word out, that's not going to work because that would make it even more confusing.
Yeah, of course. I mean, I see that point there. It depends on what you're trying to do. If you're
trying to do a lug or a meetup, then yes, it would work. If you're trying to do a magazine article,
that's not going to work. Right. I mean, it could, but it would make it more confusing because you're
like, here's a key. If you like KDE, here's 10 different distros that run it. Like, well, okay,
that's not helpful. It'll work your family or grandma or grandpa or something that you want to
switch over and you show them desktop environments. Okay, which one do you like and you know better
which Linux distros are better for grandma? So you just give her that one on top of the Linux
distro that you're installing for her or something. Right. I agree with that. But like, if you've seen
the video from the KDE guys where they went around, I think Australia and talked about, they
went to people random people and said, what do you think about the new windows and they showed KDE?
Yeah, you know, that was a good video. They basically went to mold and it was okay. It was actually KDE,
but they said it was Windows 7. Please link the video if you have it though.
Yeah, it's just my mistake. It's a waste. I'd have to find it. I don't know, I don't have a
little hand. But continue on YouTube. And you can fully find on YouTube quite easy.
I like that. I reckon the best guy that reviews Linux is that guy that does it with his mother.
He makes his mother sing the distro for the best time. It's called the West first time,
or I think. But that doesn't work anymore. The very first time she used Linux
that it worked. But now she's using so much that she's used to it. And it doesn't fit the point of
this. To spice it up, the last one they did, he had her do one in a different language.
So that one too. Miss, I'm sorry, but I miss Osgooey. The Osgooey tech show because that's what I first
started watching when I first got into Linux. And I don't care what people say. I actually like
the Osgooey tech show. I did too. It's very early. And that's where I met everyone. And to me,
that's what, I think that's missing. I mean, Osgooey was sort of a distro watch of the day
about two or three years ago. One of the places where people went to. In that went,
even when we were separate ways, it was just more diverse. I've never seen his reviews, but as
his little video of him ranting, he kind of looked like a tool.
It's a bit sad, really, because I mean, I do that. I get fed up for about three or four months.
But he always came from the beginners perspective. He did teach people quite a lot about Linux.
He even taught me how to screen cars and all that sort of stuff. And I mean, that's where
his factory started. That's where it's needed. So it was on his channel. He's 12, you know,
he went 12 and I think pulling out this tool was doing really well. But I mean,
hey, people, you know, you don't know that stuff as well. And I think it just got fed up with everyone.
Although he did pass off the Fedora crowd in Arts Crowd. So they sort of attacked him and he
said really.
The thing is, is that as far as that goes, if I had a show that was that popular and I made somebody
angry and they started attacking me, you know what? I don't really care. I'm still going to do
my videos because quite frankly, I wouldn't even read the comments on my videos. I would just post
them and see how many views they got.
Yeah, I like to hear your own advantage. That's the thing. So what you do is you review these
comments and you make jokes about them. Well, the way I like to like it, I like to get
hates a great from different places. Well, I did was just go, I don't, if you guys don't want
my videos and make me, I just make more videos. No, just run with the car and make something funny
with it.
Well, I mean, any negative, negative response is bad. Like you would say, like as far as marketing
terms, bad press is good press or any press is good press or whatever like that. And that's true
in a business sense, but that's not a personal sense. So you like you release a project and you
post on Reddit, there's a 50 50, okay, there's like a 75% chance they're going to have some,
they're going to like insult the crap out of you. But if it's good or people, you know, the
reaction is good, it's amazing. So these are the small growth that do it. And there's a small
growth that would do it on every channel and every person is that they don't hear who they do it
too. It's just bad comment, bad comment. You said you went through all this. And I just
tend to be the same growth tool people that do it in every fricking minutes, you know, every fricking,
you know, and it just wrecks it for everyone else really. I share the video of the KDE and the
mall thing. It's an e-reupload from JB because I couldn't find the original, I think it was taken down.
But still it's the same video anyway, so it doesn't matter. I haven't seen it when we're not
getting criticized for something. No, this is the man I was talking about earlier.
I don't know why it was taken down, but it's that I'll just YouTube-DL it.
I'm just using the um, you treat me in all room Firefox. It's just as easy as that one.
I'm not using Firefox right now. I'm using my phone, but when I get on my computer,
I'm using Firefox on the phone if you're using Android or 30 other options.
You can't do it on um, iPhone though, because uh, their policy is that you have to integrate
Safari crap into it. If it's an optional browser and they refuse to do that.
Right. I'm of course. iPhone is just horrible in every way, but
their whole limitation of what you can put, what apps you can make is just absurd.
So you can do that and you know, you can get whatever you want. I mean, for her and she's always
on the right phone, but she'd buy it and she's two thousand bucks on the iPhone and that's
where I'm actually costing you. And she honestly just pees all her day on the freaking iPhone.
She's even got the sale like TV on the iPhone, you know, because she's going to add that we'll put
on the iPhone. The way for Mozilla to give the finger to Apple is to develop it for one of these
jailbreak market things. That'd be funny. Actually, I guess I should rephrase when I was saying about
iPhone. When it comes to people who don't understand anything about computers, it's perfect.
For any one of us, I think it's horrible. Yeah, great.
Like I had and and sometimes you can even give people advice and they'll just completely ignore your
advice. So it doesn't, it doesn't, it sometimes doesn't matter. I had a guy ask me for my advice
about what tablet you should get. Like, I want a seven-inch tablet. I want to run Android.
So what should I get? I was like, oh, they heard the bread heard the branding. They've
mentioned it to me. So I said, I said, you should try Nexus 7 and they're like, okay, great.
So they go to the store to pick up the Nexus 7. Of course, they're going to pay more because they
go to store. But then they see, oh, this other one's cheaper and it's a Kindle, like the Kindle
Fire HD. And then they call me back and say, this thing, this tablet you don't want to get,
doesn't have everything that I wanted. And I said, what do you talk about the Nexus 7?
They're like, no, I got the Kindle because you don't want to get the Kindle, like, no, I didn't.
I had a father when I was just putting your phone, it was like, the Galaxy S3, I think.
And it's something that's an e-wear, you had a nice phone and you've got an e-mail users
that pat from a phone. And they just wanted the latest version. That's what everyone was
telling you to get. They've listened to my advice. Well, they asked for his latest version.
I know it's a little cheaper here than the S3, so he got that.
Yeah, actually, my brother did the exact same thing. He was getting the, this was like, during
that when the S3 was out new, which was like, the Nexus 4 was not out yet, but like a month later,
it was going to be. And I was talking to him about, like, what phone should you get? I
like, well, you should get a crappy phone for now that cost like 10 bucks. Wait a month and get
a Nexus 4. Okay. And he gets an S3. Whatever.
Time for life. Wait, she wants that, Greg. I'm a barbed-in giro of phone, which means I can probably
go to the member of phone. She wants to, but why am I buying a iPhone? But just wait for the five
pieces out of the moment. Just wait for the six and 12 months. She wants to be buying the phone.
Well, yeah, all the Ss are terrible. But that's why I made a photo thing on Reddit, which is
funny. It was like a happy new year kind of thing. And it said, it was like the Android logo
said, happy 2014. And the Apple logo said, happy 2013 S. That that was nice.
Oh, you mean up to color, Greg? How's your feet going?
Oh, I'm just fine. G2. G2. Okay. I actually installed Slackware as well. And that's what I'm
running right now on it works. Nice. It's a bit less stable. Quite a few people don't like
that, though. Well, basically, every distro is stable. Why is she doing stupid stuff with it?
It's what young people do, because we're hackers and we do stupid stuff.
The go around necessarily. It's a gadget here that's so much of you, do you want to say something?
Who? The skidges. It must be I would think.
To fight for change happens.
I mean, it can't be, you know, constantly active forever, right?
I don't like really annoying rings and there's not too many people. I prefer to go and just talk
to people when they're flaking. But I don't know what kind of conversation.
I would argue that the more people, the better. It's just when people are talking
every each other, there needs to be like, you know, a moderator or something.
But I just keep people. Sorry, I was just agreeing with him. I was saying, oh, of course.
And then you talk to me. Yeah, I'm actually a little bit of a lax. Sometimes I do talk over people
because of that. Well, also because you talk a lot too. I have the thing. You guys have been
doing all the talking and just been listening. I didn't say that it was bad that you talked
or a lot or anything like that. I'm just saying that you do. Sometimes you talk a lot. Sometimes I
talk a lot. He's just one of those people that can't deal with the silence. Yeah, I don't
want to. I don't see someone talking to people when I want to do the silence. I was talking to
somebody about the silence thing. If you want to like mess with somebody, just go up to him,
say, hey, stare at them. Don't talk for 30 seconds. They will automatically get super nervous.
Even if you know them, it works anyway. It wouldn't really work with me.
I'll try it. You know why? If I did that to someone with my eyes, it doesn't sometimes look like
I'm actually looking at the person. Well, it's just the awkward silence, really. Just refusing
to say anything. They will try to add something to it. Like, I'll fear for going to like a,
you know, you're trying to say buy something in retail. They want to bargain with you or something.
Just, you know, you say something like, I'll offer you this or whatever, stare at them. They will
either, if they think it's a good, if they think it's a fair deal, they'll be insulted.
If they think they're trying to get money out of you, they will automatically like in like 30
seconds or something, they will start like giving you a better, like offering you a better deal.
So you have to kind of gauge whether the price is fair or not before you do it. Otherwise,
you're a jerk. I hate those mall carts. Like, there are a number of these Israeli mall carts
where they try to rip you off on this stuff and they pretend like they're giving you a good deal
because they give you less of a rip off than what they were doing. And, you know, you really can't
bargain them down to what it's worth. Oh, you mean like every single retailer that exists in life?
Yeah. These people are really good salesmen. I mean, they really, really try to pick at you.
And I mean, they're great at it. If I didn't have a stronger will, it would probably work.
If it's a racial slur here, I don't need to have a stronger will, I don't need to have a stronger will,
it's just needing to have money. Yeah, I have to be worried about that thing. Ben here either,
because someone doesn't want you being an advantage, he's not even sitting at the moment.
I'm going to be here right now. Ben, me, me, me, me, me, you won't be in me if I say that I think
canonical screwing people over. I'm going to be in you if you say hi. Hi.
Rude. That, that, that's my free speech when you say hi. Hi. In any case. And I just say something.
I've not been to learning to stretch music for over two years. I bet I know who the person was
there. There, there, there, there. We don't have to talk about that. I mean, I don't want to get
personal. Right. I know who it was, but it's really irrelevant, I guess. I'm not going back over
there, but we can talk about it if you want. Yeah, just place like, just wipe the head thing
in that chapter, but I'm sure that you're broadcasting forever. Welcome you in without
norms. I've argued with mods over there all the time. And they don't mind it except when we're
arguing, we yell at each other. No, yeah, that's not. Yeah, except straws of all shapes and sizes.
Yes. And as a mod over there, when we were arguing, it's still okay to argue with mods. We don't
have a problem with it because, you know, unless you're another winning the argument, that's not.
Well, if you're doing some weird feedback, dude, um, you're fine. So some people can disagree with
someone and you're fine. So some people can't do that. If I rot fine, he can disagree with people.
Um, that they had greater disagree. Just when you get people that can't agree to disagree,
and that our mods are annoying. I like slug fists. I like things to be resolved if they can,
and if they can't, okay, we suck it out. We tried. Even if we don't agree, you can, you can end
the comfort like the yell fest with like, um, you know, at least some mutual respect coming out of it
because at least you kind of put yourself out there. Rename it. Linux look fest. Well, then we have
to do it every time. I get tired. Yeah, it gets. Yeah. It is the lug normally held because I kind of
want to attend it. The JB lug is not officially like timed right now, but I'm working with the, uh,
the opposite stuff like that to set it up. What I'm talking about, like an actual like, uh,
a, a, a times to come out like a calendar thing every people can like put on their time when,
when they need to come where everybody's going to be there and stuff like that. They're almost,
well, we can, we can set it up for you when you're, it's your specific time. I'm lying that we try.
Because there are people there every, uh, pretty much, uh, that doesn't matter. That doesn't matter.
That's not my side. It's not the point. It's not, it's not to replace it. It's not to replace
what's going on now. It's to just add to it. Right. Take me now. This is pretty much that I couldn't
say that he's not really in a community. This is community thing going on. So that's why people work
about their own communities that they wish. It's like, thank you. Right. We say anything bad about
open speaking. Obviously, I think every, every podcast in here is the right. I say road. It's just,
no, he's just no issues. I can open, speak, screw open, speak. I'm glad I'm not there. Oops.
Take a while. I can speak as Switzerland and you'd be sweet. I'm glad you're not there either.
I can speak a bit like Switzerland. That's just like nature. Yeah. Wait, if it's free speech here,
am I allowed to take your speech, modify it and say what I think? The way we get like,
it's too late. I don't, I don't think it's at all like Switzerland. I think it's more like candy land.
I think it's like liberation. Marcus is not normally the one in here. Believe it or not,
for 10 years. There's only, uh, podcasts are quite, you know, this is the first time I've had
public radio. I've seen them, um, apparently last two days. And I'm like,
Kasey, they're like, uh, they still do their podcast and here, but I haven't seen them lately.
I know it's basic to stop the, the like, there's not too many of, um, people in here at all.
I know it's reviews and dreams. My, I just used that for a chat drawing.
Pretty sure it's about 20 people in here right now, because it's considering it says 20 right on
the list. That's pretty active. Yeah, but yeah, only because they're doing their 20 out, um,
things like the mirror and the, uh, my, I see, we're in the, um, on-cast thing on it.
Didn't they start that yesterday? Yeah, just finished. Do you remember how we started?
It's, it's, it was only four hours left like this morning.
I know it was this fast. It's a finish, but this carried on because everyone's talking still.
Do you know how different forecasting got started in the mobile server and this carried,
carried on talking? Yeah, that was it.
This podcast is going to last until the new year.
Next year's record. I was asking this in, uh, the different forecasting, I say, there's
apparently 72 hours. You need someone from the Guinness Book of Records in the room to verify it.
So we could always dig this key next week. We continue our supported podcast.
Okay. That's a record. I don't know what that podcast was about, um,
yeah. How long has this podcast been going?
About 60 hours at the moment, but I think it's must be a 40.
Well, that's not really a podcast. This is just people talking.
But it's actually, they record it in every hour. They put it out or something like that.
So it's actually a proper podcast. They're recording it and, um,
and they are putting it on, on, on, on to that. I would argue it's not a proper podcast.
If it's not something, anybody would be willing to listen to for 60 hours.
I would listen to it for 60 hours.
You would, you were going to come back to this, like maybe a few ones from now,
because you would want to listen to the conversation we are having right now.
They're going to listen to it just because Fraetzel is here in it, right?
Oh, dude. Have you ever listened to the Dev random podcast?
That's all I need to say.
Actually, no. So it slides a little bit more.
Yeah. I never heard of this.
All it is is a bunch of guys talking. It's the best kind of podcast format there.
No, I mean, we're not, I don't think we're saying, I think he's, I don't,
I don't know what he's saying, he's specifically.
No, what I'm saying is that right now we're just talking about nothing really relevant.
No, they were talking about, we're not talking about anything relevant now,
because we're talking about not talking, but that's not the point.
You can do a podcast.
It's not talking, not talking.
Ellen, Ellen, Ellen Jude and I were joking around that we should do a podcast,
because we would be quite good on screen knowing that understanding of us
about just reading off even.
Ellen Jude?
Yeah.
I mean, do that with someone who's talking to us.
No, because he can, he has, you can understand everything he says.
What are you talking about?
Yeah, but I don't know. He just tell me to show up.
You're pretty fabulous.
What the hell is it?
It's a beautiful way of saying Z.
It's what those foreigners do when they're trying to pronounce American hoarseness.
You mean the proper way of saying it?
Is that what you're trying to say?
How can it be proper?
I mean, I'm just trolling you back to the restaurant with E.
I mean, you got B-C-D-E-G of it.
No, there's none of those in with Ed.
There's beds.
Yeah, but it's not bad when you say it.
A bed said dead.
It could be.
It's not bad.
It's my stuff.
It's not for nice.
It's making fun of my name.
No one's thinking.
No one's taking making fun of your name.
We said bad, not bad.
It's quite good, though.
I can use my proper name as a net.
There's pretty much Marcus and B-C-D-E-G of two characters in the user war.
Everyone thinks I'm just got a copy of Picky's war characters.
I didn't play that game.
I didn't even know.
Russell, I tell you,
your purpose in coming in here was to troll right.
What's with that?
You're not Marcus.
You're the candy man.
And this is candy land.
You didn't meet me.
You know, that's you've been listening out.
Oh, I can't remember the name of it.
It's like king,
king lollipop or something like that.
The wreck it Ralph thing.
Something king something.
I don't know.
Is anybody actually listening to this bio?
One person was before.
Probably re-in.
How big is this file now?
Well, they'd split it up per hour.
Is this streaming anywhere?
Yes.
I could take a path of radio.
It's streaming and it's also being downloaded
to put up for MP3 downloads and whatever.
What about OGG?
Yes, it was.
Festival where you from?
Where was that?
Poland.
What times over there?
I don't know.
What is it?
It's not mine.
I think it's stealing it out.
It's seven
fifty no.
It's seven.
You haven't.
Okay, you say, do you say Holland?
Do you say Poland?
Poland as in Poland.
Yeah, that was for that.
I thought that was somebody on.
He wasn't American.
I'm like, why don't you go under if you can't tell?
I'm so sorry.
I'll see if you can see if you can see if you can see it as well.
Yeah.
The purchase is fine.
Right now.
That's why I didn't know what time it is in Poland.
He's exactly 12 hours difference between nice and peaceful.
There you guys.
Now you know what the name of the king or candy land is.
What?
If you try to link something, it didn't work.
Yeah, I don't know what you're talking about.
Well, anyone listening to this stuff?
Well, yeah, I was for that.
Apparently, it's a change.
As you're registered, you can't change your registration.
You know what I mean?
Yes, you can.
You can delete the search.
Sure.
Yeah, but it's your registration on your end.
To save us money, you come in on Windows.
You can't come in and ask you for a pass week.
You have to change your neck until a different neckline takes you again.
That's why Linux is better.
I don't know.
I feel like a lot of people would be better off if you asked to change your neck instead of getting
well, actually, Linux does prompt you, I guess, in a manner of speaking.
In the beginning, when you sign in, but you can just continuously sign in.
Yep.
But I can't change it.
Just post it in the channel.
No.
It's going to hit the paper.
It's probably posting it somewhere else.
It's going to hit the public radio in this right click and paste.
Copy link.
I'm trying to change my name, but it's not letting me.
Yeah, if you've registered on this server, it says,
you're about to register yourself on this server.
This action cannot be undone, and your username cannot be changed once this is done.
You will be forever known as blah, blah, blah on this server.
Are you sure you want to register yourself?
So if you registered, you read this.
Yeah, but actually, actually, this registration thing is to do with,
I'll come in with somebody saying, look, it's not a cookie, but, um,
just sort of like, this is sort of difficult, yeah, something.
And so actually, if that, if you're on a different computer,
so whatever, or you don't have that particular certificate,
then you can use another name or you can just delete your certificate.
Yeah, presumably that can be done in the certificate wizard for anyone.
Except for we have to manual, do we?
Yes, no, yeah.
But how can someone expect you to read a ULO?
That's just crazy.
I'm trying to avoid that, okay?
Well, you don't, you're different registrants.
You could.
Yeah, if you were registered anywhere, you are now unregistered.
I'll give you a brief, I'll give you a brief, you know, I think.
They don't know, but he's going to read those ULOs,
that's why I don't think they can be considered valid.
Right.
They know nobody's going to do it.
I've loaded Microsoft Windows on my computer.
Okay, you're not regretting it?
Windows.com will sell all the stuff.
The first two words in this said I'm done reading this.
The first two words would stop now.
If you go to the windows.com website, you see this hipster sitting between these two
dudes on a buttered brain or something.
And since he looks like a hipster that makes me want to go get Windows right now.
Is he wearing skinny jeans?
I trust him because he's a hipster.
I don't know he's sitting down, I can't really tell.
This is on Windows.com.
Yeah.
I don't know, I identify more with the guy on his right.
The guy in the middle looks kind of creepy.
Well, he's got those hipster type glasses, that's what he's supposed to be.
I identify with the guy on the right.
I feel like I do.
I need a shave.
Hey, he's sleeping.
It's one of the things Windows.com will stay on an airplane next to the window and is sleeping.
I walked by the Microsoft store today.
It was in the mall.
And I mean, I saw the monitors in there.
It was just really creepy seeing all these people dancing around on the monitors.
I'm excited about nothing.
That girl is sinking.
What a hell am I doing this?
I'm excited about squares.
The girl is sinking.
What the hell am I doing next to the sky looking at a stupid Ted with a monitor?
And just pay my money and let me go.
I identify to the guy on the left.
Is it because half the face?
Yes.
Reading a newspaper.
No, I don't know.
No, I don't know.
The guy on the very right is very much a wizard.
The guy who's sitting in the camera, she's for that surface thing.
Which is not very good.
I mean, it's only got 2 4G or AM, isn't it?
It's not.
They basically, you know, their whole selling point is that it's one experience on all of their devices.
Apparently, my sister never was that one.
And apparently, you can't even download anything else apart from formats in the 8th store.
No, that's the, that's the Surface RT that Surface Pro is just like going to get a desktop.
Okay, she's less interested in sat TV.
The guy on the right with the massive beer and he's actually kind of impressive.
That he sleeps so suddenly with the massive sun in his face.
Yeah, I was going, thanks for paying me a million dollars to do the same.
I'm running minutes on this.
Probably is none of me.
The guy in the middle looks like he's going to kill me if I don't use windows.
Oh, he looks kind of creepy.
I wouldn't trust him.
You can tell by the cool, funny looking glasses.
I trust him though, because he's a hipster.
You know, I need windows.
I was on the side, like, I'm falling on his chair, going, um,
but yeah, I'll say I take some money because I've got hits of free stuff.
I trust Microsoft now, because I saw some
Asian chick dancing on the stream on the screen,
looking like some type of anime character or something.
Actually, if you scroll down a bit, the meet the windows.
We meet the new windows thing.
That's so much crap, because I've never had a girl.
My girlfriends ever want me to show them technology.
Like, just go away.
It's never that way.
I mean, you know, a pickup line should be, hey,
I just installed crunch bang, but it's not a pickup line.
That should be the best pickup line ever.
See, if you would say archbying, then I don't know where all these chicks are in this.
What?
What?
I don't know where the chicks are in this.
I mean, I don't know what technology pickup line you could use.
There are not sure.
There are like, um, that's, that's, uh, sexist.
Are you saying that there's no girls on the internet?
There's tons of technology pickup lines.
Like, are you sitting on the F-5 key because your ass is refreshing?
What?
F-I-C-K didn't work last time.
I hope it works this time.
I'm glad he stopped recording.
Well, no, there's two recordings right now.
Yeah, I know.
As soon as you done saying that, he stopped and started again.
That's an awful, very astered.
That's, uh, that's a good bumper for the excitation.
It is.
Uh, in any case.
No, he said he was stopping at 11 Eastern time, but he went a little further.
Uh, it's 1, 20 AM Eastern time.
I know.
He went a little past his stopping time.
Probably just went up and...
Adam and Joker, huh?
It's Marcus.
Blast him like that.
I tell Blast to look at the live string.
I can speak Blastings.
Slow on that one.
But how about I would like to put my module in your kernel?
It wouldn't understand anything, yeah?
It's like there's, there's, uh, all sorts of jokes you could make about big packages.
Yeah, tons of them.
What about dongles?
Where are the girls?
I think we've paid one on here in like 3D hours or something.
If I could rearrange the keyboard, I would put the D between you and I.
I mean, you rarely see them.
And I mean, when you do see them, I mean, come on.
What's their orientation usually?
So I mean, you hardly ever get girls doing this.
The problem is, the problem is that, you know,
you go to a mumble like this one and there are creeps like Rod and on those servers.
Okay, what's this?
It's good.
I am not a creep.
Here you are.
I am not a crook.
Did you listen to me?
You're a very creepy person, not corpse.
That's why we get along so well.
I guess so.
Is your name Google?
Because I'm every, you have everything I'm searching for.
Well, that could actually work out.
It's just Google text-related pickup lines.
No, no, no, no, no.
These are all that I thought of that I took from somewhere else.
No, it's actually a Reddit thing.
The Swab IT guy.
Oh, yeah.
That was a bunch of them.
You know one thing that pissed me off.
Not pissed me off, but I noticed on JPEG.
We know when you're on the other day to talk to people trying to get faster.
They were talking about mumble and every single thing.
Like, I can't, I can't talk about mumble when I was up in mumble.
No, I asked the European.
Anyway, carry on.
I think you're exaggerating every sentence.
It must be a show or something.
I mean, I think I'm plugged or something all in and out.
I'm trying to get people out into mumble.
All right.
If it was in the early days,
then many people did not know the server and port.
And they had that created bang mumble yet.
Yeah, it took me like two weeks to get required to make it.
I know, I was trying to get them to know it too.
I mean, it's the commibre to know that it's some idea yet.
When I still collect teen speech, teen speech people.
Hey, girl, I hope you're an ISO file.
Because I'd like to mount you.
I have a question.
Well, I'm making a module in node.
Do I have to do all the requires in the module?
Or can I just keep them in the file that requires the module?
I'm out my dongle inside of here.
That was awkward.
Yeah.
McKinney.
Yeah.
Are you really listening to questions?
No, sorry.
What's the question?
The question is, what can pretzel do when I'm making a module for node.js?
Yeah.
Do I have to put all my requires inside the module?
Or can I keep them in the file,
just in the file that calls the module?
You put anything you require,
anything you require from the module.
It would then.
Yeah.
As you normally would do.
And then you can use the background JSON as well.
So that when you distribute it,
you can just do the mpm and store everything down.
Do I have to give them in the function that I'm requiring?
Or I can just put them on like as global variables?
You can do either, but it's commonly best practice
to actually put the requires in with the module.
So in with your modules code.
And no globals ever.
That doesn't happen with JavaScript.
No, because modules are slightly different.
Where they're actual.
They have a separate global state to the main application logic.
So it's separated anyway.
That makes sense.
And also the requires also keeps it so that if you use the actual
same modules that you require in your module elsewhere in your code,
it will only have a pull down one instance.
You wouldn't have two instances of the same logic.
But should they keep them in the module as in the file
or in the module as in the function that I'm making?
Oh, keep them within the file.
So keep them all at the top and then call them
from within the functions from there.
Okay.
Okay.
I just don't know how how this is being executed
and depending on that, it may work different.
Yeah, I pretty much will then send back
a comment.
What are you trying to achieve then?
Like, what are you trying to build?
I just want to keep my code somewhat clean.
So I wanted to move one messy function out to a different file
and just call it when I need it.
And basically just do a module.export
equals the function with the requires at the top of the file.
Ah, okay.
Yeah, I just wasn't sure.
Yeah, the other cool stuff you can do
is that it's construction things as well.
I just probably have the documentation bookmark.
But I'm too lazy for that.
You should use a Firefox super bookmark.
It's 200 bucks.
It's super bookmarks.
It's super.
But for the show that can sync up to own cloud.
What node?
No, the Firefox stuff.
But yeah, you can.
Sure.
And you could put your profile.
Like, it was similar to your profile.
Put your profile in the own cloud.
Yeah, sure.
Oh, you could just use the same home partition for years.
Like I do.
Yeah, I do that too.
Oh, it breaks so many things.
We're just using the same home directory.
Well, you have to adjust some things.
But not having to set up your...
Like, not having to reset everything is nice.
Just having to reset a few things.
Check the channel list to provide an example.
Prodigy 8 doesn't mean this, right?
Because only really four of us are in your front first.
I'm here, just not talking much.
Are you minifying your code before you do anything with it
or do always keep this much white space?
It depends what it is.
This is just more for reference.
So I haven't minified it.
But production code gets minified before it goes out.
Right, that's what that makes sense.
I minify everything.
I'm in the canyote.
You're in the cany code with JVA.
I'm just back in K4.
Yep, and we have to do it before.
That's right, okay?
We're actually catching up with people I haven't spoken to for a month.
You're welcome.
Tron, you need a skin for mumble that allows you to slide the characters
that you see on your screen in the two sections
active and inactive.
It fix your problems.
Yeah, I mean, it's easy to fix, just so that I have K rooms.
People in here don't use.
Most of the people that come in here always idle.
They do the podcast and leave and it's pretty much what they do.
It's not really an issue because I just do it in your own rooms.
If you don't run any sunny rooms and you just talking around,
it's not big issue.
Well, can you write this script for mumble that would like,
after let's say 20 minutes of inactivity,
it would just keep you to a AFK automatically?
Yeah, you can.
You can do that in the settings and mumble
on a couple of rooms I've done that.
I think you guys played around for that for a bit in your art.
The ACLs can do it, but that's a server of side things.
Yeah, they have to do it from the sealer.
You'd have to talk to door gates when he's the one,
the server, he'd be the one to talk to.
That would be horrible if you do any type of streaming though.
Well, you could give permissions to somebody to ignore that setting.
Like, you could create a group in the ACLs and that's a,
set this for everybody who's a regular user or non-registered
and if they're in this group, ignore that.
We had one guy come in here and he was the anchor
and he left us, must be the first time he's a member
when he left us, my phone, continuous.
He heard we've been in the background
and he was knowing he was computer.
Quite funny for him, but I actually eventually got
door doors to pick him because he came.
He was only for about 12 hours.
He went to the base of the room, which was quite funny.
Some people will fall asleep on his own servers before
and then they start snoring.
It'll be wizard when you're speaking about you.
I wasn't going to bring it up,
like, you know, specifically Telecom out.
But come on.
Chris would have done the,
Chris, do you think that the Chris?
Yeah, Chris, Chris, I'd add the Chris,
the English guy,
he can go, he can go, he's Chris.
No, that's not Pingay.
You're talking about Guk.
Okay, that's not Pingay.
Okay, you recon.
He's very someone's
wringly.
No, he's not at all.
He's nothing to do with it at all.
Pingay is made by Ant.
Yeah, but he sometimes changes his neck
and sometimes comes from his face.
No, it's a two different people.
His dude's name Ant is an Antony,
another guy's name Chris.
No, nothing to do with it at all.
Except they both think that you should enable Primm on everything.
One of them does, yeah.
Primm, Pingay hasn't come on here,
and he can't know at all.
He loves this little stuff.
Well, she's scared of coming on to any servers now
because he could spend everywhere.
Yeah, I know, he's quite funny.
Marcus knows how that feels.
Yeah, but I don't, I don't, I don't get,
I don't get, like, I've not said this in recording.
No, it's all right, carry on.
I don't want to give the head space to him,
but Pingay, because I've seen something that I shouldn't have.
Whoa.
Yeah, it happens.
I guess if, if JBA isn't getting sued by Pingay,
then you won't either.
When I grow up, I want to be just like him.
I think I'll say the story of you one.
I mean, I'm just like,
Pingay's problem is he doesn't know when he's head,
he someone's doesn't know, I put us another way.
He doesn't sometimes know what he's saying.
Well, no, I think he sometimes has different soups,
the substances in purring his judgment.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Judgment isn't peed and he's actually quite good
to talk to a bit off-suffering her.
But I've never really hit Timey as she's a pungent guy,
but he does sometimes carry on a bit.
Just that rating.
Sounds like someone we know.
I don't rent.
Yeah, I don't know, yeah, it's been someone bans me.
I don't rent.
I'm just messing with you.
I'm very forgiving.
I really don't take you.
I mean, a lot of, I actually,
probably, I've only been being with two places.
And I still talk to people in both those servers on a daily basis.
It's just, in their open,
so this can't be bothered, like,
apologising half the time to go back in,
but it's fine, so we have to go.
The internet is a small place.
You can't tell.
The internet's world is a small place.
It's a really small, tiny place.
Yeah, you've become,
there are like a couple of major communities
and you end up, you know,
getting to know people across all of them.
Yeah, and also...
It could be nice.
I think that about the next...
If you think about it though,
internet is just a series of tubes,
and sometimes they get clogged.
Yeah.
But I'm looking at it right now.
So, it's two...
Yeah, I think about, like, LDC,
I pretty much did the same thing.
I tried to get people over
and stuff until LDC,
and I really enjoyed it for about six months.
And I mean, a lot of people in that six months,
and I pissed off one eight then,
and decided I wasn't paying.
And that was that.
I just left it.
But actually, no, I didn't.
I just left the split off,
and I didn't want to be involved
and so I just basically went back to JB.
And they followed me back into JB
and all sorts of crap happened.
And the new JB wasn't very happy with me.
So, I just left both, and did the same thing.
But, you know, and that's pretty much it, really.
The tubes are lead to the cloud.
Yeah, I know.
Then you go, whatever the number is,
there you go.
Like, I was in, um,
especially when I actually get on,
but he's not talking to me at the moment.
Um, he...
He's in a danger right now.
I think that he has known Spectre for two years.
Um, like, um, he, um,
he went into my jar, uh, my boy,
and that was some really good guys.
And he actually wasn't spitting much.
Like, there was three or four guys,
and he went from Holland.
One Australian guy was in there.
We talked for about two or three hours.
They're really good times.
They even offered to make me an epic.
So I turned down, um,
because I don't think much of that arch.
And, um,
and I came back the next day in the IRC.
And then, fricking Spectre was there,
and he was a fricking admin.
I'm like, fricking.
Yeah, you can't.
Sometimes it's hard to get away.
But you can't...
Same people pop up in the same servers.
You get a choice of being a troll
when you actually,
all you're doing is just, um,
talking minutes with someone.
And normally,
they come into that series,
not you're going into their server.
Um,
and that's what I found.
I've just found that,
and it's well quite tiny lately.
Flying, leaving more towards the tip,
sort of field.
I just want to leave away from that minutes.
You know, uh,
I really can't be bothered with the politics.
We hate mayor because of politics.
Link the site.
Link the site.
How many people here have, uh,
are not here,
but how many people in general
have vowed to make a, uh,
a post of our,
only, uh,
what are we making a post on?
Uh,
I'll get the site there.
All right, I'd like to...
I had to have,
I would, I wouldn't vow to do it,
but I'd do it.
But see this, that's what's going to happen.
So you guys taught me to do something,
and then I get blind for it,
and then I'm the troll.
And you guys get all the...
Well, you're not going to be blamed for this one
because that domain is pointing at my server.
Yeah, he's going to get blamed for it.
I just...
Is that website for real,
or are they...
Yes, it's for real.
It's for real.
It's...
It has a real logo.
Yeah, and it has a real goal
that hasn't started yet,
but it will soon,
at least soon enough.
So, somebody needs to get on right
in a few articles.
I'll write one,
but I'm not going to put my...
I'll get behind it if it's for real.
It is.
I'm putting on a join like these blogger,
and I'm just going to join it.
It's for real in a way.
Like, it's not meant to be like,
we really hate mayor or whatever,
but it's real in a sense
that the site will exist to make a joke.
To be honest, I just want to...
People think I hate everyone,
and you guys are the ones that hate.
No, no one's...
No, no, no.
No, no one's...
No one's hating anyone.
You're making a joke about what Shutterworth said.
But you want to laugh at Shutterworth.
We don't even hate him.
We're just making a joke about it.
I hate him.
It created quite a big stir,
so it's quite a good joke,
because people who follow these things
will know what we're talking about,
and everyone else will just sit there
scratching their heads and wondering
why we're all drinking tea.
We're the crumpets.
Yes.
I guess Nickini will bring them.
Well, I got a dick.
It's down to...
I've been interested in what communities
people hang around in here,
because it's pretty natural at the moment.
So, Frisco, what do you hang around a podcast?
Will you part of the ISE ring somewhere?
All right, yeah.
Just hanging around,
and I acted like I know what I'm talking about.
That's right, I'll do that.
Are you fine?
You finally admitted it.
We're so much alike.
I don't know what you think.
Frisco, what would know what you're talking about?
Go and talk to him.
Don't talk to me, that's rude.
Yeah, he's a designer.
They're all like that.
Yeah, designers are just amazing.
Well, he was amazing.
He went from JD, he was in here
from the first trip where I was
and every time someone had a minor back then,
I talked to William.
He was getting put to staff
a few weeks for Google.
Well, not full-time, but yeah.
Okay, Marcus, what distro of Linux do you run?
I am currently on Windows 8.1.
I don't believe they're on meat tree.
Why elementary?
I'm trying to try to say what it's like.
They should not run in Tibet, they actually.
They actually run quite quick on my system.
I just want them in.
It's distro I could do,
anything on people.
Yes, what's it called?
I'm now on meat tree.
I was just going to sign one of those.
I think it's elementary.
It's elementary or the set it wrong.
It's basically saying,
make fun of me, I'm a noob.
I don't like that stuff.
I'm at the beginning more into KDE
because I like my black and white slideshows.
Photos going on the background.
I'm beginning to black and white pictures
of Blast lately.
You can do that with anything.
Yeah, no, I just use,
but I just use the right wallpaper changer
and just untick all the download stuff.
And that's quite good.
I've been really getting the black and white photos
because I needed something
to take my wine off limits for a bit.
So I went off and started making white photo
for me on Google+, to pass the time.
And just to find out,
these are photo copy of pasted into the community.
And it's actually quite good.
I've got enjoy doing that.
So it's just something that takes my wine off limits
and paper.
So if you want to,
if you want to get some respect from the community,
you have to use
fact or whatever that was called for your wallpapers.
Like a black and white photo,
it's like these hates and times
on the wrong Google+,
it's something really nice.
If you really want a lot of respect
from the community,
and you want to get the best wallpaper possible,
you've got to pump in the digs.
A couple of minutes.
Their wallpapers are horrible.
Their wallpapers are the best.
They do that thread on the
their problems with their wallpapers.
It looks like they paid some...
You don't know, I find love.
It looks like they paid some kindergartener to do the work.
You know, slave child labor.
It's so bad.
There's like a thousand posts on that thread and none of it is good.
It's not a single one.
Good wallpapers.
I like actually posting on the threads.
And it's like special.
It's still not responded to me in the wall.
She had in three, four,
you three years of being on limits.
I'm still there.
My goal for this year was to get her to respond.
She still hasn't done that.
So I'm still disappointed.
And I love puppy Linux.
So I mean, it disappoints me.
Well, it's a right for what it's used for though.
I'm in a discussion with some developers there to fix
the massive kinks they have.
It's going to be even worse now.
You can't do a loop because it's a designer, right?
Yeah.
Thinking about it, it's nice to start out.
The clinic was the developer.
I think while he was always guys,
one of the apps of puppy Linux.
Now it's going to become bloated pop,
but it's not going to work.
He's actually puppy.
You've done too puffy.
You've slept puffy.
It's got to point them out of this.
Have your own fricking puppy puppy.
And you don't want it to turn into a door.
Like for it to grow up.
I'm going to make a distro based on puppy Linux.
And I'm going to make it like it's going to have every single
like package you could possibly have.
That's going to have I'm going to have KDE.
And it's going to have a bunch of stuff like that.
And I'm going to call it the great deal.
It has to be called puppy barbecue.
Well, that would be like different options.
I you can't I can't be bothered.
You have to come up with some obscene names for it first.
Yeah, there are about a few minutes.
That's quite weird.
He came and joined like bitch Linux.
That would be awesome.
You know how GP broadcast and we're talking about
barbecue most other day.
He came in to like the most community when I was a member.
I'm like, yeah, talk about it.
But when I was a member, they made him an admin.
And then he was going full on for a while.
Wait, no one in the storm again.
He's from Singapore or something, I think.
But that does it.
Well, there's more than one person.
But the goal of the Linux barbecue is like
just to try things out.
You're not really meant to use it on a daily.
Kind of like Rebecca on my server.
Is that what's called Rebecca Black or something?
Yeah, you're just in paper Linux full time.
What about Hannah Montana?
Well, let's see, Justin B.
Where is by P base?
I've got her on dual boot.
That's a good.
I think I'll get to stay true.
And Hannah Montana is a suicide base.
And I'm ashamed to know the other best.
And I'm ashamed to admit that I have any idea
what I'm talking about.
Doesn't work down the list.
Yeah, make twerco as it has a
fork of excerpt that makes your screen shake all the time.
There's a good.
There's a good thing for paper and there's some good things
to Hannah Montana and Linux.
So I'm going to make a combo of Hannah Bieber.
Beaver, Justin B.
But if it's good, but you have to have
remix that uses Wayland.
And then it's like Hannah Bieber.
Did you ever see that spin of that song,
you know, Justin Bieber and it was called Rabies?
No, I didn't say that.
It's on YouTube.
It's pretty lame, but yeah,
it's pretty lame. We usually watch it.
It's pretty lame, but so is Justin B.
It's not.
It's wild.
Don't say that about Justin Bieber.
I'm getting angry here.
I got beeper.
Damn some fighting words.
Well, that's just a really angry sometimes.
I don't know why.
I just sit back and look at when those
will be happy.
No one, no one's actually
serious right now.
Don't take anyone.
Although I am playing
deploying Justin Bieber to Linux on my
enterprise grade.
It is an enterprise solution.
Yes.
I hear that the guys who make it
are going to start the
starting thing.
The first time I saw him
on the level of a magazine.
I thought he was a little girl.
The first time I saw him on the cover of
a magazine until I saw it said Justin Bieber.
Justin.
When I first found out about the
distro, I finally said,
well, these are people who are
serious about their work.
Exactly.
We got to get behind that.
We need crowdfunding here.
And more skull fractures.
They're poor children around the world
being deprived of Justin Bieber Linux.
I think it should be so
by default on the one laptop
pretty child thing.
Yes.
And now you're getting it.
And you know how many users are
when they actually use it because it's
called Justin Bieber Linux.
They call it the Justin Bieber Windows.
It's been $33 million
of Justin Bieber Linux
at the day number one.
I'm making.
I am making an operating system
called Wobbly Windows.
And maybe we can get the Windows users over.
Awesome.
Now you're going to get the KD users over.
Wobbly Windows.
I mean, that's pretty much one of my
main standards for if I'm going to be
using a distro or not is.
Well, that and the cube.
Can I get?
Can I get my Wobbly Windows?
I love Wobbly Windows.
I mean, I need Wobbly Windows on the cube.
Wobbly Cube is.
Exactly.
Yeah.
It must be nothing.
I mean, I worked on JB.
Must be pretty quiet.
Boy, you guys over here.
Yeah, it is.
Tell Blaster that you should come over.
There's only three people in there.
There's no guarantee that all of them
are in a speaking room that's like they can
be away.
When I was last in there,
there was three people down in there.
Yeah.
You should just Josh one of them.
It's fucking the Josh in the wall.
No, I'm him.
Yeah, I'm him in a couple of
a week and are a week or so anyway.
Yeah, he's nice.
It's why I get the speak to him.
But because he's one of the time he gets
home in six of the mornings,
he keeps the job up on mumble and it's like my,
I mean, it's only about three o'clock
enough knowing for me.
So it's not too bad.
Josh was one person that came in
and asked me my side of things
from things he can know with JB.
So I quite appreciate that.
And he's come in here quite a few times
and he had chat.
I think he's a bit, uh,
stressors he's marrying is, uh,
he wants to say in Finland.
So he's not making a big move.
What, what intel do you bring up?
I have done some research and there is
out of the three one person and a talking thing.
Although he's playing Minecraft,
so he's not really talking.
Good, Josh.
So no one there is talking.
No one there is talking.
Well, that's because we're all in here,
so that makes sense.
I'll head his way.
I don't know what to do.
Because there are parties, socks.
I'll head his way.
He would send that room into a complete minecraft,
uh, Minecraft gaming, gaming room.
Just put a head in.
Just put a head in.
One, two, Minecraft, two room,
and you all watch the foe show.
That's a pretty sweet world they made.
Well, I haven't because it's minecraft.
Well, if you're interested,
uh, the, uh,
the, uh,
I'm not a horror star.
I'm not a horror star either.
No.
Um, what does a new game of sting?
That's quite good, um,
oh, the one that's free to play.
You're going to like something later?
Stimming POS, I don't even use that.
No, the one that,
the one that you can talk in your mic
and people go around and, um,
collect stuff and, um,
uh, that looks quite nice.
Breakfast, I actually got quite good.
It's kind of a memoirs call.
I had to steam the stall at the moment.
If I weren't steaming POS,
I'd record my toilet.
I do. That's just fucking annoying.
Okay.
If I want steaming POS,
I'll look in my toilet.
Yes, but right in with the GeForFortcast,
I'd take a look.
No, I wouldn't.
Well, he doesn't represent everyone.
It's here, right?
He made, they made you an ablune.
They, um,
it's just, uh,
how many aprons have they got over the
like,
probably too many.
Uh, that's a problem.
The same is like five.
It's to meet too many.
That's not true.
There always seems to be an admin,
and there's always,
I think it was the adult
get the get the way with posting Pony's there.
There's a thing as a thing.
No brownies allowed.
I think I need for two years.
Dreams void is a brony.
No, he's not.
He's, he's saying his comment picture is.
He's not.
He did not deny it when I asked him.
Oh, he is.
He's apparently cos he told me he is.
Well, then he's got to be kicked out of his
administrative role.
I wouldn't.
Anyway, I'm going to leave it there.
I'm saying, um, um,
but you can have too many aprons in the server.
I give them, most of those guys are quite good,
like Tyler and Josh and, um,
either dreams void would be quite good.
If they piss off, start passing getting annoyed at someone
who may get on with the other aprons,
that's when trouble comes along.
Like, you know,
you really need all four aprons to decide
that who's going to be banned of luck
rather than one person.
Well, like a certain person who, uh,
banned me arbitrarily,
I'm not going to mention any names from a different server.
Yeah, it's not for you through broadcasting.
I'd like to make that really clear.
It's not for the Jupiter broadcast.
That's not how it's supposed to work.
You know, look at the famous stuff.
Got it.
That's my trouble with them.
What's the point of an adman if it's going to be a
democracy-based thing anyway?
Yeah, um, the LDC especially brings people into
an idea on well caught well still with people in LDC
after not going any for two years.
Um, especially with bring people in there.
And this one adman,
the sinister factory leaves the road
and start banning people.
And this digital has pigeon installed,
which is really convenient.
I'm not going to look at the packaging or anything.
We're just going to look at the version
that it comes with and the version
that it's in the repositories or anything like that.
Let's just say that would be too relevant.
That would be useful.
I might be knowing names,
but we'll just go out 15 year old,
then it's 16 year old.
What day?
We're going to be in here.
Relax, see something.
Guy who banned me.
Yeah, and get young kid.
Oh, no, he wasn't.
It wasn't an older guy.
It was an older guy.
I think he's just like galactic.
That's the guy.
I've seen some of his.
They're not.
I mean, if you go over there,
you can figure it out,
but I'm not.
No, I don't know what it is.
Yeah, he doesn't know what he's talking about,
but his quality of videos is actually not bad.
Yeah, like Jay,
you know what, Jay, he was one of the ones that studied it.
I was surprised that he actually puts all of his videos
together completely on lyrics.
Thank you.
That's one good thing.
Well, no, he,
not kind of, not entirely his intros
and outro he actually made in all the windows.
He made it in blender.
Cool.
No, Jay.
No.
Spatio.
Oh, Spatio, I thought we were talking about
infinitely galactic.
Yes, Spatio, it looks like he makes all of his stuff
but his intro is awful.
I wish he didn't tell it was really bad.
It doesn't, I did a hang out with Spatio
for about three hours and he was telling me
what the hell it does.
Correct.
I mean, users can't even lie.
I have a theory though.
Did you just say how Spatio does crack?
No, he did.
He said crack.
He is a good user.
I think he's going to explain his videos.
That explains why everything is right now.
Did this crack make you do that?
I mean, just like,
I'm surprised he hasn't come in here.
It's like everywhere I've ever fricking
pre-knowed.
No, he's probably listening right now.
Just to copy and all.
Thanks.
Thanks for my travel make
of when you were talking down social really shut up.
And the spatio is bad tree.
Well, the worst thing is that when he wants to do a video
it's just like wherever he pops in his head
and he immediately has no research
anything.
He just starts recording.
Well, he does the research
every time he opens up a menu.
No, but he's not after the advanced user.
And he actually has switched a lot of people over
to the night.
So go look at that sort of things.
Yeah, those are the people that you want to bang your head
against the wall for the type of questions they ask.
Yeah, the people that can do any research on the wall.
You see there's this thing called Google.
Where?
I mean, 90% of the problems I see people asking.
I mean, you look on Google and within a few minutes.
I mean, it's right there.
Hey, can you explain to me how to use Google?
Damn, you know, I have tried to explain this to older people.
Like I was explaining someone to some older dude
over the phone how to install Firefox.
And I mean, he was doing something totally different.
I don't even know what he was typing into.
He was not in a web browser.
I don't know what he was doing.
And I went through all these steps to install Firefox
and it wasn't done.
He didn't even get to the site.
Yeah, I was trying to help somebody try to figure out where to
and I was like trying to like, okay, screw it.
Let's not even bother with this.
Just open up the start menu and start typing.
And they didn't, they started typing like nothing's showing up.
Did you open the start menu?
What do you mean start menu?
Like nevermind.
What kind of do you do?
Does it know what the start menu is?
Well, I mean, they don't know what it is.
You could you say you hit the little orb in the bottom left.
They're like, oh, okay.
They'll get that one.
It's not called the orb.
It's also not called the windows key.
Well, this is why we should all be using Slackware.
Or Mod4.
Or Mod4.
Regente.
Regente.
We should be, yeah.
Well, it's very large and gentle would be.
It's Mod4 and window maker too.
Yeah, I'm going to do something.
I know it's still recording.
But I'm, I'm not being a troll.
I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm not being a troll.
Said the guy who's in the, I'm not a troll.
I'm not being a troll.
I'm not a troll.
FBC is a troll.
Well, obviously means he is a troll.
Yeah, I'm going to play stuff like this.
Well, every time it's, it's like every time we proceed something with,
I'm not a troll.
It's, it's granted that you were going to be trailing.
It's like every time you say, I'm not racist, but.
I can't hold on to see.
I'm going to come.
Not sympathetic, you know, but I think Hitler was misunderstood.
He's going to come by with something.
I got, okay, fine.
Or he's going to come back with a sound like I get a troll.
Yeah, I'm going.
Guess what?
So I want to get fast.
Wow.
Nice.
I'm going to go fast.
I get banned fast.
I go tour vaults here.
Linux, this dark community,
it's a popular, you know, you have pictures of people that
think they're like that.
How do you say I wouldn't worry about it?
We got a sound like all.
I could, that could correct.
If they created a mumble, see that.
And everyone that was paying for me, I'll be seeing it.
It'd be probably about a hundred people on it.
What is it?
It's, it's funny.
I really like doing impersonations of people,
especially when I sound like I'm up it or something,
because it sounds nothing like them.
I'm really not doing impersonations that are completely wrong.
Yes, I mean, it's so funny.
I'm an American accent.
Not good at all.
Dude, first off, right?
I have an American accent.
Well done.
You do it really well.
I practice it all the time.
Don't do it.
Slash Lina, I'm Richard Star, man.
There's a guy in here that she seemed like Richard Storm and Nelly,
your uppity.
Yeah, I wouldn't begin to be able to do it.
Stormman has actually come on this set before.
No one believes we've been doing it.
I'm going to podcast with the Linux basics about eight months ago.
Stormman is really, the real Stormman was here.
The real Storm and Nelly sang a song.
That's actually all recorded and everything.
Join us now and share your software.
That's the only song I've ever heard him sing.
So, I saw you there, I saw him.
At least in public.
He was saying that he had to do a,
they had to do it through someone else's computer.
No, he wasn't using something on his computer.
That's how they did it.
I like the part where it goes that's not good.
Hi girls, that's not good.
This is where Edmund comes in handy because he can make someone.
So, don't hate Edmunds now?
Yeah, I doubt one.
I must admit, I don't hate Edmunds.
I just like to hate the Edmunds.
I mean, do you hate yourself?
Yeah, sometimes.
Father never hugged you as a child.
Yeah, no, pretty much.
What father does, though, yeah.
I don't know, yeah, I don't know a father who actually ever hugged
their kid.
Yeah, but I think it'd be kind of creepy.
I don't think so.
Is that Mary's that saying you wish your father did?
Oh, I want my father to hug me.
Hug me, happy.
See my father, I don't know how to spell it.
I wanted to know when he actually got three four years ago.
I haven't seen him for two years.
We do, you know, one, he just lives in a different city.
Really, I haven't seen him for a long time.
You know, he showed up on Facebook for about three weeks ago
and all that he's pulled on here is just patches of his fricking new car.
Who's new car?
I'm a proud of proud of the car.
That's what Facebook is for.
You use these pictures that no one cares.
I don't know.
So what's the point of hitting Facebook?
You know, take your point to it.
I mean, take your time to elaborate on a really important point.
You get like a couple likes and then someone said,
oh, I just went shopping and they get all the likes.
Or they'll say something.
They'll post that stupid crap.
Or if they post a picture that says,
if you don't like and comment,
then you obviously won't be able to have cancer.
Some stupid crap like that.
Or take a picture of your spaghetti.
I mean,
well, that's very important.
Any social network alternative is better.
You can go press provides more Google plus provides better content.
You know what I did?
You're fucking nuts.
Like God.
There's nowhere.
Google plus was perfect.
Before I did your update,
site months ago, six months ago,
when you were at peripheral malls.
So I hang in there.
Plus something they force you to put all your information out there.
Well, you just hate them for privacy issues.
Right.
I dislike them for that reason,
but I think that following the people I do follow on G+.
I get better, um, more focused content.
I follow, you know, just a couple of KDE developers.
And then they don't post useless crap all the time
because I don't know if it's their circle system or what,
but I just, you know,
only get KDE-related stuff from them.
And I think if I think it's a really good system.
I like Twitter as well.
As long as you don't follow, like, you know, Bieber.
I got Bieber for either of us.
But then there's, um,
Tumblr is actually pretty good.
Yeah.
For Bella Tumblr.
It's good.
Picture Tumblr, like, uh,
merge between Word, Present, Twitter.
Isn't it to you at BLR or something like the...
Yeah.
They're no e because they're hipsters.
I hate hipsters.
But you trust hipsters.
Therefore you should use them.
Yes, I take that back.
I trust the hipster.
That's why I'm using Windows.
That's why I use Tumblr.
He's a creepy looking hipster.
Looks like an axe murderer.
Kind of like games, don't you know?
So it's games.
What?
That's a double right.
What do you ask?
Do you play a lot of games?
Talks race or...
Exactly.
Yeah, this is crazy.
It's the only game that matters.
Whatever that funny name for that Tetris thing is
that's not Tetra that quadra or something.
On the Kenny, you're in Japan, aren't you?
I mean, the Kenny that's in Japan?
No, there isn't.
It's not real, I hate.
It's present.
You should know this.
There isn't a Kenny in Japan?
No, it's just me.
In Japan.
So...
Someone from JP was in Japan.
I couldn't really be the host.
That's Nox Hand.
You know, I'm going to get in trouble.
They go with tape that I bought you guys over here.
We didn't do anything wrong.
Why would you get in trouble?
I don't know.
And besides, if somebody is in trouble,
it's not going to be any help.
Indeed.
The candy man.
That must be out late because it's normally pretty quiet
at this time of night in America.
No, no, no, no.
Yeah, it's 2 a.m. Eastern time.
It's 7 o'clock a.m., yeah.
Yeah, it's normally pretty quiet except for the gunshots.
Hey, John, do it.
Daniel, first taste.
Yeah, he's a reason why you know a lot of patience.
I do find...
If you hang around more than one of two or three
mumble servers, everyone pops into them eventually.
No, I can't like to talk.
So I'd be like,
most people I get on for a while.
This is the only like the third mumble server I know
that just talks about Linux.
Yeah, it is.
It's the problem.
There's only a couple that actually do.
And then they see which I'm gone from Jupiter colony in this one.
This is not like this at all.
Normally you get two or three people in here and that's it.
If that, you can either one here or go and know
what to show up.
There's someone who comes in to talk to me.
It's a Jupiter guy's camera.
At least I got another server to try to bounce to when I'm bored
if the other one's empty and if it's empty, it'll be like the other one.
And I'll just do something else.
No good thing about this one,
then it's you can actually go in and listen to the podcast
and the podnets still in the other guys do their podcast.
And therefore I have to have a chat too as well.
But it's not really a chatting server.
This is really unusual for the server.
I don't think they actually want to be.
So I've neither actually advertised it much
apart from the slick about people to come in
and just tell a couple of people
that want to talk to me and they say it.
There's probably a lot of it being from it.
I'm just kidding.
Over the two years,
till I've got to know all the podcasters quite a lot.
So I can enjoy talking to the podcasters
about some of them quite interesting.
I'm a podcaster.
Yes, you can tell by your voice, right?
Actually, I'm not a podcaster but I guess I should be
because my voice is soothing and like golden.
But I should do a podcaster.
So I'm going to steam podcas
about what games have been written on Steam with their good one.
I should totally do a podcast with Steam
with my computer that can't run anything from Steam.
Awesome.
Yeah.
It just got a Steam page and this is the latest game
but you're released to Steam.
Did you see how spatry said,
well, I installed Steam.
Like I couldn't get like the thing
that really makes it Steam work.
But I'm going to review it anywhere.
Could get Steam as do what?
Just as do what the big file from Steam saw.
Well, the Steam is not really.
You have to have the hardware.
It's not meant for public mass production use.
They shouldn't have released it.
They shouldn't have released it.
We'll put left it on the banter.
So we'll look at it and we'll look how yet to correct.
And just change the TV in like you're on.
I'm just talking about the beta.
Yeah, just for the list.
Why?
I don't know what you're talking about.
So I haven't even tried it.
I haven't tried Steam at least.
So you definitely don't know what you're talking about.
I'd like to say no.
Actually, how can you say it's they shouldn't have done what they did
when you haven't even tried it?
Watch spatry's review.
Yeah, spatry's review is not as a waste of time.
It wasn't a review.
He couldn't get it to work.
He quits up and white just had drive.
It was funny.
It's just so stupid that he did it.
He couldn't get it to work.
But I'm going to review the rest of it.
But that's not what makes it really Steam OS.
Well, it quits up to the difference.
I fuck up like my hard drive.
Because I was fucking learning the newest ways.
And he goes, I think enough of it.
I'm not reviewing it.
And this way, I don't care.
I think he could review it anyway, I think.
I mean, how is it the review of Steam OS?
I can't use the tool.
I don't know.
He doesn't care.
He doesn't care.
He doesn't care.
He doesn't care.
It's the first time we've heard
so we're on a channel going over here.
He probably did the virtual machine way.
Because you have to have a specific hardware
to be able to use it well.
No, he did it for a store.
It's the thing.
He knew what he was doing.
That would be a perfectly reason why it wouldn't work
because it requires specific hardware.
If he didn't look that up in the first place,
that you tell you when you download it.
You have to have a specific hardware.
Yeah, he goes, he goes.
I knew that and I have no interest in it whatsoever.
I must admit, I've lost interest in Steam.
Like I mean, it did go as soon as it goes.
I should have looked at the pay underneath the download button
as a disclaimer.
It's time to do this.
No, AMD graphics card or something.
I mean, he just didn't read it.
Well, yeah, then he shouldn't have done the video.
Yeah, exactly.
But anyway, the real subject to talk about
is Gentil.
Yes, he's still Gentil.
But he's still here.
He's the expert.
It's still Gentil.
End of show, end of discussion.
Now let's dance.
Okay, this is the like crash bed
that must be having a bad day.
He's still like, he's just posted in the chat room
and I want to say, I'm not doing it in your own world.
Who?
What?
So, let me see.
I want Crash Bandicoot.
Crash Bandicoot.
Oh, that's okay.
I'll just post, but I'm sorry.
Oh, I know who that is.
Oh, here we go.
See no work.
Is that work?
Oh, God, give up.
I don't know where.
Anyway, what the, what the f?
Yeah, this one is just put a link to you.
So I must say they're really bad day.
I'm a good man, I'm so nervous.
Why are we on the front page?
Front page of what?
OpenSpeak.cc.
So it's a live view.
They've got a live view of people
who pass can easily do it as well.
It's a live view of the mental system.
So they can see who's in here and they can see.
You can start coming up.
Yeah, well, they can see you talking,
but they can't hear about who's talking.
To be honest,
yeah, it does.
No, but it's just our community of God, a live view.
I can always figure out what's going on.
It does work.
I refreshes rotten corpse started speaking
and his lips were lit up when I saw it.
Yeah, that's handy for me,
because often the people could see it for me.
And here are the ones that want to know where I am.
So they just come and have a chat or quite like that.
And if I could be a 10,000,
I can speak details in the effect who don't never goes there.
I mean, it's interesting, I guess,
if you want to see who's online before you go in,
but Matt just go in.
So that would be handy for me.
It's just easy to come in.
Yep, actually, by easier.
Good for the podcast.
You know, we need the podcast on as if people weren't here.
But I know there's a few people that check the service
and see if I'm in here to come and appreciate.
Could be a cool way, though,
to tell who's speaking on the live shows,
if you could refresh them.
Yeah, well, I reckon that'd be a good one.
That's unnecessary.
I've already talked to people about doing that.
We can just kind of superimpose the window itself.
They're like a wirecast.
You've been there so hard by doing this.
This is a copy and paste thing.
That's all done for you.
Yeah, but we're not talking about in a website.
We're talking about on video.
I don't know what the hell Reshband was talking about.
I don't even know where they come from.
Reshband would put them like in JPEG.
Yeah, it was a few minutes ago.
You want the last half an hour or so.
I can paste in it if you like.
That's the right thing, man.
You can track down exactly what the reason
for this outburst is.
He's talking to Ryan, I think he was telling me
he was a little kid before.
Yeah, I know.
He's very fond of telling everyone that he's 13.
Yeah.
The trouble with the crash band is,
a lot of it.
It also near actually a mubble now.
Crash band doesn't like going into mubble scenes.
That's talking about bunch of kids in the ISC.
No, he goes in the mubble.
As he goes in, does it probably because of money?
I don't know.
He's been in him many times.
He used to hate mumbles to go on to me all the time.
I'm never going into mumble.
I'm never going in as to street food.
I'm never going in.
Well, he probably didn't like it in the sense that
you would constantly tell people to go into mumble
in the ISC.
He's like, yeah, we get it.
There's a mumbles over it.
Wait.
Yeah, wait.
It's okay.
We might talk about that.
No, it's okay.
You started it.
Let's think about it.
I used to help people out quite,
but I still do it though.
I would say on checks and stuff like that.
Why?
No.
Excuse me.
Why?
You're an Aussie in that shoes.
I'm just saying, I'd like to help people out.
If someone's having an issue, I will help them out.
And sometimes an happen doesn't like you're going there
and they get annoyed because that you're upsetting them.
If they're trying to talk to someone.
It's not that simple.
I reckon it.
I don't know.
I don't know.
It's probably a bad habit on my part.
It's probably trying, you know,
don't like seeing people struggling to get something to work.
If someone's having a problem,
they will say that they're having a problem.
But they can't say they're having a problem of your life.
They can.
They can.
It's called a chat channel on the left side of the screen.
Some of them are not here.
There is a chat room in the chat room.
When they open the mumble, they automatically have it.
They can't not see it.
They are surprised.
You know, people that don't even realize
they could chat in the chat window.
Well, they don't deserve to use mumble.
There you go, that's easy.
You've got access to it.
No, just because there's a barrier to entry.
And if they can't at least look at like typing and reading,
then that's kind of a barrier they need to look at.
What did I just say?
That was just like some random.
You're right.
It's very late.
Yeah, that's what it was.
That's why I smile.
Well, I wasted you a hundred weeks,
probably on what day I was sleep much anyway.
The trouble with me is getting carried away.
Sometimes when you guys are in a room like him,
most of the time, like in here,
it's just pretty much just normal.
Don't it stuff?
It's just having you guys in a room
because I know you guys for a while.
We start joking around.
Getting off topic.
You don't get off topics.
There's no topics.
There's a couple of people from the other communities
that I haven't seen for a while.
And that's another reason I get in trouble with Edmund.
I tend to know everyone.
I don't know what the hell is going on.
What's happening?
He's been me because he thinks I'm causing trouble.
I'm just catching up with people.
Derby, do you time?
Open Source T?
I guess I gotta wait till he gets back then.
If I was a writer,
I would definitely write something
for Open Source T party.
Why?
Why don't you write something?
And then I'll fix it.
Oh, because I don't know enough.
It's a joke, who cares?
Well, it needs to sound like I don't want.
What do I do?
Yeah, exactly.
I'm associated instead of my real name.
I'm going to write something like that.
I may as well put my real name on it.
Well, if it's a joke, you might not want to.
But who cares?
You can put up like,
we'll call you Carlos Danger.
Danger.
I think what something to write about.
Get on the flower.
Something about,
something about,
Ubuntu forking everything.
How about?
Ubuntu's new slogan.
Go for yourself.
I know some thoughts actually end up being quite useful.
I'm, I'm using my voice.
Some, like, I don't like no jokes.
Some, some thoughts actually are quite good.
In a month,
it's turning into a quote,
quite a new answer.
The poster are necessary.
You know what?
Everything in this is unnecessary.
But people like to think
you're in this way too much.
Everything is unnecessary.
My tape was necessary.
Maybe in the beginning now.
Not so much.
I think it's meant was a fork of Ubuntu
and it's one of the big things.
What a project dies.
Just forking it.
I don't think.
That's how we ended up with so many IRC clients.
Is that one of them gets old.
And so there's like three forks at the same time.
Or not at the same time, obviously.
But that all have slightly different goals.
So now there's.
When you look at IRC clients,
and when things die, for example,
sometimes you have no choice but to fork it.
Some licenses will only let you fork it.
They will not let you continue with the project
without the original approval.
I think it has to come with an assistant licenses issue.
It's just really, really hard trying to figure out how they work
and what you can do and what you can't.
No, there's a nice note.
So it's quite interesting.
The go to TLDRLegal.com.
They explain the licenses and know what you can do
and what you can't do.
So I don't know how it was.
I was wondering when you mentioned it.
I suggested that if you do a search for open source software,
you just put CPL and search engine and Google.
You could.
Sure.
But you could also use Creative Commons or BSD or MIT.
How are you going to Kenny?
See that website basically takes the complicated licenses
and break it down and explain what they do
and what you can do and what you can't.
Well, well.
There's a music on YouTube.
I wouldn't know what music you can play on what you can't.
Even creative commons need to do some you can.
Some you can't know.
They will tell you.
It's a good site.
Say a wolf.
Yep.
See you tomorrow.
You got to have to leave.
And if I don't see you in JP, I'll bring you in here wolf.
Danger.
You know what you guys could do.
Because I'm in here a lot anyway.
Rather than a class that doesn't want to abandon me from JP.
And for the sounds of it.
You don't know that at all.
Yeah, but I'm not saying.
I think it doesn't.
When he's not there, you just come over here.
I'm supposed to.
Maybe.
Just imagine how quiet it's being with that media.
Yeah, it's not been quiet.
I noticed, I noticed Angel in the first show.
Couple of shows.
And she goes into mobile networks a lot.
Yes.
Well, not a lot.
But yes, she goes in there.
She probably goes more in than in Christos.
And Ellen, Ellen still popping it.
Yep.
Quite often.
Yeah.
Of all the people in J.B.
Allen goes on the most.
Sorry, he was the one.
I hate this.
I hate this.
It's not teens.
I don't like it.
He doesn't.
He prefers to speak, but he doesn't care.
I mean, but I'm saying, I'm never got not last day much in here.
Four hours later, he is still talking.
Well, it's about the conversation.
Doesn't matter what the program is,
as long as the conversation's good.
Yeah, that's the way I sit.
Here, what's everyone?
There's always a good conversation.
It's, you know, joy talking to her and stuff.
She really enjoys talking about hardware.
Well, I actually really enjoyed some of the stuff
they talk about in here.
Some of the podcasting guys have really different speakers
on things than what normal minutes users would.
And they get really in depth into what they're doing.
And I find them really good for crowd.
I'm really.
They just, they've just researched everything.
A lot of the users don't research stuff as you just said.
They don't research stuff.
They don't research stuff.
They don't.
I'll decide.
So like, the podcast is only in their 40s,
50s or 60s.
And they've been around a long time.
They actually find a lot of them actually really interesting talk to.
Okay.
Hey, first of all, let's talk about in-depth stuff about programming.
Team print run.
Okay.
He's still not back.
Yeah.
It's the uncastle that it's best to be here.
I have any of them I've done to the DJ really, really.
Who else wants to just talk about things?
Don's a pre-talkie or a dog guy here talking about stuff.
It's a gadget, especially, I think.
Let's talk about why KDE's oxygen is hideous.
Yeah, but they've got some new things.
You know, you can easily change them.
Doesn't matter the fault ugly.
I mean, using KDE quite a bit lately.
I just can't be bothered going and storing a whole bunch of stuff to change wallpapers
around crap.
I quite like it when you're doing a video.
And it's like, it's not slideshow going on the background.
Well, you can just use a changer.
This is how dumb I am.
You know, nothing about some things that you guys probably are weird.
At all, watch KDE's video on a DB and then you're doing a video on KDE.
And you went through some KDE stuff.
That's really simple stuff.
How to move the low up from KDE up until the top.
I don't even know how to do that.
At that point, I thought you couldn't do it.
I knew you could do it on KDE because I know how to do it and all the other ones.
But I did not know that you could do that in KDE.
You can do a ton of things with KDE.
It's like the most configurable desktop environment there is.
It's just a shame you can look around this.
I managed to get working properly.
With KDE?
Yeah.
You don't know what you're talking about.
No, I don't.
I don't see kids.
Even...
No, I don't.
You're right.
That's funny.
Even the package that's in art, which has your configuration whatsoever, comes with a panel,
and that's really all you need.
Do I have to write this for?
No, you need more than just that.
You need to get rid of oxygen.
Whatever.
You don't know what you're talking about either.
Yes, I do.
I've used it.
It's garbage.
I use oxygen right now.
And guess what?
I made my GDK application match it.
No.
You're going to tell me that you've got my app running in KDE with oxygen on it.
I'll do it just to spot you with screenshots of it.
No.
How rude.
I kind of want to see it, actually, just to see the massive mess it would look like.
Because of oxygen.
Recap for one person.
You get.
Here we go.
So I do a recap of the news items of Preston's watch here.
I get taught and teach tech communities for fun.
I haven't done a show yet.
I was going to do a weekly show.
I haven't done one.
It's only a couple weeks old.
So I haven't really done one yet.
I could go through the news articles for you guys.
I'm going to go through.
I'm going to do a show and then we're going to go through news about Cosmopolitan magazine.
And I'm going to tell you about what the best way to please your man is.
Right.
Season one.
He's the first one.
I'm paying blast as a way of a ray gun sold for $200,000 or something.
And so was Star Wars.
That was interesting.
You know, one.
Read the seat.
Apparently ticked.
They're talking about technology.
Some sorts of spearmen about materials being something to deal with.
They've been sound weights.
They can actually.
Like for force fields and stuff like that.
They've actually almost offended some sort of thing.
But that was interesting.
A solar charging tank.
Well, that was quite fun.
Some of the hacker guys have liked this.
I'm talking about camping actually or you're on the other poster.
Solar charging.
Twenty twenty nine beast windows 8.1X.
Doesn't like that one.
Twenty nine of the beast windows 8.1X.
Then he said another one is.
And you say he had 10 methods revealed.
What made that there?
But the top 10 long copyrighted souls.
It was a good video.
Yeah, you guys actually still there.
Yeah, it's just your providing links to windows documents.
Which most people in here run Linux.
Sorry.
Well, here's a video anyway.
The 10 most long copyrighted souls.
Most copyrighted.
What does that mean?
Non copyrighted.
What does that mean?
No, most non copyrighted.
I don't know.
I just.
It's just songs that you can use when.
And tries and stuff.
But you can't most non copyrights.
It's for me.
Nice.
Nice team.
Nice.
Non copyrighted souls.
I've been to this guy.
He's a video.
Yes.
I don't know.
That's a lot of the holy things in here.
I'm going to be able to stop the holy light.
Outside Doctor who is how long it's going to have to wait until we actually start seeing less episodes.
Yeah.
Nine months until the fricking.
I don't like that.
The Christmas issue either.
I thought they did that.
Well.
The one that you guys all right there.
The whole thing.
So that was 19 or even.
Oh, and I put.
I don't know.
It was kind of parody on Doctor.
It was quite good.
There you go, Russians.
That's pretty much what.
It's actually.
The funny thing is it doesn't look out of place.
I know.
Because there's a really good oxygen theme for GTA.
No, no, no, no, it's it's it's it's not good.
I just said it doesn't.
It fits.
It doesn't actually look out of place.
Like I expected it to.
Well, what did you expect?
Well, it's oxygen.
I expected to be just atrocious.
Well.
In every way.
And GTK not fitting because it'd be like.
Like buttons where randomly in places.
What?
Yeah.
Little mic.
Little mic at you.
Well, no.
And you're okay.
Did you have the GTK setting in fact?
Like the the config thing.
What's that?
Do you have the config?
There's like some kind of config thing that Wizard was talking about where you could go into
KDE and make all of GTK stuff like look much better.
Yes.
There's the thing that gets added to your application settings.
So you can have a special tab for KDE settings and then you can set themes for KDE.
Within the settings manager in KDE.
Okay.
So if you are using that and I can't get it, it makes sense that it would look good.
Or look, okay.
It looks like at least it fits where it needs to be.
Well, it looks perfect.
It's all nice and gray and shiny and with the brush nickel stuff.
Blue glue.
Glitter around the active window.
Oh, yeah.
The stupid glow.
I mean, you have to have the glow.
Right.
The big giant blue glow that no one should ever.
Giant, just look at it.
It's it's really noticeable.
Biggerly noticeable.
It's like 20 pixels.
What?
20 or 30 pixels.
You can barely tell which window is active.
No, it's easy to console.
Well, you only know that because there are the text.
It's because I know it's not gray.
No, I know it is because it's blue.
The massive glow and it's like 30 pixels large.
That's ridiculous.
But do you see that I actually had to download scrolled
because I had nothing to take screenshots with?
I see that now.
I was surprised I had a tin other cooling off you.
Yeah, they might not even be here anymore.
I don't think they are.
I don't think they are.
They still here.
I'm still here.
And I'm not getting the KM from that room.
See, I'm trying to use still here.
At least still here.
There's a matter.
If you like Kate.
Kate is awesome.
I discovered it today because I get it because I would have
to recompile it to make you complete me work.
You've complete me.
The last two things that the communities have been doing since
I had nothing else to do.
And then we talked to myself.
I don't know if I can rely on Google Plus really.
My communities are awesome.
Have you got more than one piece in it?
I don't have, I don't even have any.
Actually, I know I don't have a community.
I'm talking crap.
They think I like Google Places.
You want to pass the time.
It's quite easy.
You can just got quite stuff and post stuff.
And people do it directly on Google Plus.
So I've got quite a few people who are talking to me at the moment,
which is good.
I don't really need a lot too much.
Peer them about it.
You've gone to here and actually had a chat with.
One of them came in.
There's three or four of them now.
They're talking to me on one five and six.
So that's weird having people follow you around like.
Some of them get really caught up on what you're doing.
Even though I actually have some stalkers.
That's quite weird having someone that's stalking you.
Barkas.
No, it's scary.
Barkas.
Barkas.
I see you.
I'm running a blog.
My blog's doing quite well.
So you're still a reason I'm actually doing it.
And I'm running a blog.
I'd be out doing podcasting.
I'm putting that when they.
When they actually do the reveal on L.A.s.
So I got what's one of them.
And I was just getting pissed off for like 40 minutes of frickin.
Chris doing eight bits and talking about frickin' thing.
And one day.
I just got pissed off.
And I run a blog saying that.
I wasn't pissed.
No, I just really.
I was just asking if they could put a time.
When they were in the actual reveal for door 20 started.
And I got a couple of people in the J.B.
I don't know who they are because I always didn't know.
And I see.
Got really stucky with me about it.
It's not like 20 like.
I was up.
I had got a fight 400 years on blogger.
And it actually got.
It was just a straight blog.
And we actually got like 20 likes on the post.
So some people must agree with me.
I didn't have a coach.
A couple of people that I was told in J.B.
I just see what they posted.
Yeah, I can show you the world.
Sometimes it joins.
Sometimes you're not, you know.
It happens.
Sometimes you don't even mean to.
Sometimes I troll everybody.
I just logged into my.
Um.
Uh, even.
Or you measure or whatever you call it account.
And found the interesting gift from my wild bike.
Alright.
It's really awesome.
Just on Google class.
There you go.
It is awesome.
It's exciting.
It looks like that.
But he's a good one.
I don't know.
So I wouldn't put like this and keep broadcasting all the day.
Um, they can first start down like this all.
Yeah.
It was like that.
I just singing.
I just singing.
It's only that day.
I might the same.
There was on a thing already when we were talking about like, um,
lies that guy's say to girls or whatever.
And someone said, I can show you the world.
I'm just kidding.
I'm broke.
I broke his fuck.
I can't show you shit.
I'll be appropriate.
You might make me fun or somewhere.
The week fake.
Not at all.
I could read read it.
What I said.
You would not.
I've never read it anyway.
Well, there's your problem right there.
The bottom line is always to LDR.
I'm talking about someone else's.
I see a recent here.
It's okay though, because it was called open screen.
No, it's not okay.
Anyway, ever.
I was talking about the interpretation of the word.
I just Ryan.
He's sitting.
Um, Ryan's annoying usually.
Um, posted it.
He said something about, um,
um, homosexuals not being bad or something.
I think that was what they were saying.
No, what?
You're full of crap.
He didn't say that.
No, he didn't.
They're talking about the way people react to people who talk about that.
He didn't actually say that.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
Can you carry me?
It's about reading what people say.
Instead of like skimming it and trying to summarize what people say.
If you don't get the entire context, you don't get what they say.
Don't copy that floppy.
See, those were the days where the RM was just stupid.
Rob say what?
It was playing.
I hear what you said.
I'm saying those were the days where the RM was just stupid Rob.
Oh, yeah.
It's like a video.
What?
I'm on board.
I really should be clean up.
Cogs.
Fox normally comes on in chat to me.
I was there.
You need to set up.
I was going to wish them happy birthday.
Fema.
Who?
Pogs.
Goes into JP.
Ah.
I like a lot of people.
He won't come into a room.
He's more than one.
He's probably the only one that's here.
Probably if he's more than me here.
Somebody's got XBMC running on the boxy box.
I'm going to try to eat some B.C.
It looked quite awkward to get around.
They seem to be awesome.
They actually took them on a face steam off that.
Or they've done something similar.
Steam off of what?
The only thing you need is the zip paste,
but most of the time?
It's the ECMVC or what's the?
What about what you put steam on?
But do something similar with steam.
Where it looked like, um...
A media cinder.
For steam.
I don't worry.
I suppose they could.
But there.
So once I come out with a reed spring,
you put steam on it more recently but the heat to steam more
be at this thing. Rick and me is still happy.
Conceivably, if you've already got the TV, there's no reason you can't put a media center
app on it. There's no reason they couldn't pop boxy on the thing.
Well, boxy's kind of dead now, because they sold to Samsung or something like that.
XBMC, either way. I mean, hell, they could fork boxy. Call it crazy. It would be oddly
appropriate. Nice.
Well, I would, somebody would make something with remote like boxy had, because that was
pretty convenient. Oh, yeah, the keyboard on the back. Yeah, it was awesome, because
in especially considering the keyboard that the dongle automatically work with any kind
of Linux and work with XBMC. I have to get the code about the Roku box or whatever that's
called the Roku's. Yeah, they have a decent remote, but they don't have like, they don't
have an awesome keyboard on the back though. Still decent though. So you're better off
using a Raspberry Pi with a cheap wireless keyboard. One of those tiny pocket size. Yeah,
probably. Or just spend a hundred and thirty or no, actually, no, two hundred and thirty
dollars on a happy hacking too. I use something a little bit slightly bigger than a little
remote size keyboard. And it has the media buttons. It has a nice little mouse wheel and
two sets of mouse buttons depending on how you want to press it. You can find all kinds
of solutions. What do you use? You're a destroyer, Joy. I can ask. Same like on the piece.
Always interesting on the people you use, because they use it more, actually, I guess.
I'm just depending on how you come out. For a destroyer.
I might actually come up with something really, really interesting. That's a surprise.
It's all. Or a destroyer. Yeah, a destroyer. Yeah, LFS to use LFS. No, I use Mint, actually,
although I started out on basic Linux. LFS is close to mint. Is anybody else here
have basic Linux? Yeah. My comments were strange. Well, yeah, LFS is like from scratch.
It's basic Linux. Linux that uses Microsoft basics instead of faster. Yeah, when I
used no Microsoft basics. Oh, no, basic Linux was a, well, has anybody here ever used
Zip Slack? We're getting into some old school stuff here. Oh, no idea. Oh, basic Linux
is the one that fits on the floppy? I know it fits on two floppies if you want a live
boot. Oh, that's, that's, yeah, that's bloated. It requires two floppies to boot live with
a graphical install. That's definitely bloated. I agree. And I was running it graphical
on a 486 with eight megs of RAM, and it could even utilize the internal modem on the laptop.
486, I had one of those because I'm trying to lay it here. The 486 didn't, you couldn't
very much on it. Oh, you could do plenty on the 486. I could browse the web on the damn thing.
You could do plenty of things back then. Now you couldn't do anything. Oh, you could still
use it as a terminal. I mean, really, you could do all, you could do all kinds of stuff.
You could still be basic VNC on it, too. But did you, when it comes to basic Linux, did
you copy that floppy? No, I did a hard drive install. The hard drive install, you could get
away with four megs of RAM. Uh-oh. Peaceful can just come in one way for the other.
Oh, I'm going to have to look for one to see. The live from two floppies required 12 megs
of RAM. When you're, when you're talking about the floppy, do you tell me at the old five
inch floppies at the 3.5? No, no, I'm talking about the 3.5. I imagine you could all fit
that one on one floppy if you use the 288, though. That's not peaceful. That's getting
more technical than we need to. That's interesting. You're, uh, you're, you're not using what
I expect you to use. If you have been around that long, using stuff like that, then you're
infected using mints kind of interesting. You just kind of, really, you kind of, did
you kind of settle into like, uh, I don't really care about learning using all this stuff.
I know how to use it. So that's enough. Well, it's more than just that. A lot of the stuff.
I've really enjoyed the app system and I've really enjoyed Debian. So mint was something
I can just settle with it. I can use it. I can get stuff done and I can install it for
others. Uh, when I did a laptop for my father recently, he needed something that could work
with PC MCIA because it was the, uh, card that he used was PC MCIA for internet because
it's Verizon. That card that he has still has an unlimited plan on it. So I managed to
get him a refurbished core to for around 125 bucks up the RAM to four gigs, uh, put in
a 500 gig hard drive and dual booted it with Windows 7, which it included and Linux Mint.
Turns out Windows 7 really didn't like his modem, but Linux Mint said, oh, hey, you got
a modem there. He's been on Linux ever since. He can't get on the internet on Windows.
Makes kind of, it makes sense that Windows 7 wouldn't support it. Wouldn't support that kind of
card. Well, technically it should be able to support it. It should be able to do everything
with it, but I suspect we're going to need to get a different driver's spec to do it or I'm
going to have to use the Windows XP drivers in Windows 7 to get it to work. Yeah. Which there
in lies the problem. That's not a problem. I've done it before. It's not a long-term solution,
just because they can be done as I mean, you should. Of course, so you could also say that
about Windows in general. Well, that's exactly it. Not really. I'm, I'm more supportive of them
going over to Linux anyway. Have you tried LMD? I have. I really didn't like it. I just couldn't
stand the stability. It didn't have quite what I liked. Interesting. I mean, how can I say
it could pierce? Oh, what? I spelled pierces more than it's name wrong. P-A-E-R-S. P-A-E-R-S.
Yeah, and I'll put A on the internet. What? Okay. Pierza. It's P-I-A-I-E-S apparently. No,
I'm at peace. Like peace something. I'm going to say what it's name was. Why would there be an A on that?
No, I was just pretty sure. Probably what his language is. Change your English.
Oh, come here. I come here with him being my credit book that half a dozen times.
All right. You know, Americans won't understand the English rule.
Welcome back, William. Hi, it's William. Mr. Watt, William. He doesn't like to go fast.
All right, here's a good question. What's your first Linux distraught?
PC, that's what I think. And what's other about to a PC Linux? I can't remember.
Debian. Debian. Oh, OpenSusa. Unless you want to go back to like playing around with
nobics and that. Technically, whatever the first thing you used would be like,
were they first installed was OpenSusa. Okay, first and stuff for me was Debian.
I have a rather odd answer for this. My first install that I couldn't get working was Dragon Linux.
The first install that I didn't get working was like Horus.
Yeah, I guess I would say damn small Linux are my first attempts that failed. And then it was Debian.
Oh, DSL.
Oh, there's a little piece of crap. Does anybody have to remember like Horus?
It's kind of sad that this project got abandoned because it seems like some of the guys
really knew what they were doing. They got replaced with TinyCore. So, I mean, technically,
it's a, it's not, it's not for, but it's a better with 100 megabyte limit and TinyCore.
It's getting maximum. Well, TinyCore is even smaller than Puppy.
Yeah, but it doesn't come with anything. So if you...
TinyCore is the same thing DSL.
I haven't noticed how it's like.
She had a bunch of tools that it came with.
Where?
Well, if you get the base TinyCore, maybe, but if you get like the full TinyCore,
it comes with tools.
Like, yeah, like the installer for all the other tools.
Good morning.
If it doesn't come with, like, at least this morning, good morning, good morning, good morning.
It's meant to be a base that you put everything on top of, like Puppy.
You say it doesn't come with G-Parted, it's not useful.
What?
What?
Why?
I said G-Parted or CFD's or something for a part of the game.
I was gonna say CFD's is fine.
Yeah.
Right, if it does G-P-T-FD's gone there, I'm good.
Just one moment while you're in the start of the streams.
Carry on.
You've not been talking for one day?
That's so cool.
Now, what we were talking about, what we were arguing about?
Damned small and TinyCore.
TinyCore?
Yeah, it's too bad that it's good abandoned anyway.
Yeah, anyway.
Well, that was too much infighting with Damned small.
I don't know.
In the early days of it, it was actually pretty good.
I was wondered in the early days.
It was pretty good for a long time.
One, two, one, two.
One, two, one, two, testing.
One, two, and three.
Four, five, six.
Hi, everybody.
You've been broadcasting for one day, 21 hours,
50 minutes, and 25 seconds.
Go the hell to bad.
There's now 10 people listening on the live stream.
Really?
Seriously?
I must be with JV Crew.
Here's...
What?
Other way.
Who would end up listening to bass?
Waking bakers.
I'm looking up down in the basement somewhere and being tortured.
Tortured to listen to it like clockwork orange.
This is going out just to show my friends.
Keep talking.
That's all right with them.
Basically just talking about how it happens.
I mean, thanks for listening.
You're awesome.
13 people to write your problem down.
Say hello to whoever locked you in the basement.
Do you want to talk to me?
Do you want to talk to me?
I'd like to apologize to the users of the gaming.
They're up late.
The next basement.
Welcome to the basement action show.
It's actually quite good.
I can't do it.
Do you realize the reality show where people get locked into a basement?
We have to listen to crappy podcasts.
The thing they're about to knock me out.
Reality shows.
Let's say for it is Red Hat.
When they're finally out of record, they get out.
And they only get out until they have to other store the Linux Destroyer.
But on your own.
No, they all have to be like people who all they use
their computers for is Facebook.
So they have no idea absolutely what this is about.
And if it's people who are like Linux users,
like the community you can play in the basement,
the only way to get out is to like completely commit to Mayor.
Gentlemen, I think we're on to something.
I don't think the Board of Ethics that the network would approve of it.
Wait, what am I saying?
What Board of Ethics?
Exactly.
We can always have a few things to share.
We can mess up like kids, like on those like kid beauty pageants,
then at least we're messing up with the psyche of adults this time.
So you could always argue that's more humane.
Crap, well, what's a humane but less creepy?
Absolutely.
Yes, torturing people to their very sole is less creepy.
That really says something about those little ugly pageants.
Does?
I mean, it's not better, but it's less creepy.
Yeah.
Especially when it was like this one where this girl was like dancing like a hook.
And the one of the judges was like really into it's like, okay, dude.
We all into it.
They just aren't all showing it.
Have you seen a little mason shine?
No.
What's the suspicious thing you're showing?
What do you think of the supermarket?
Can I have a look-alike meal?
Guys, can I have a pick-and-chips?
Can I ask for some chocolates as well?
That was good.
That's me doing it.
Why is it good sometimes?
What?
What?
I think you have no idea what you just said.
Why is it good sometimes?
My wife's just there.
I'm pretty sure she's just going off to the supermarket to get me some food.
She asked me what I want.
She agreed to everything.
I said I was quite pleased.
Is she going to bunty color?
She won't even-
She actually did see a bunty once on my machine.
I hope she stood before.
She did like the look of it.
She saw a bunty once on my machine.
She threatened to leave me if I ever used such a horrible thing again.
I don't know if my wife would actually be able to figure it out
way around it.
I reckon something like HCCA or something
a bit more simple.
Because she used to use a straight menu and she doesn't use the menu.
I don't know if probably it's supposed to be work.
Do all she uses would be that store-
I probably would be the way to go.
I think her-
I think her is what his wife would like, Jim too.
No, I can't even imagine a store-
I can't imagine a store-
I can't imagine a store-
Apparently she's running free beer still or something at her work
with her servers.
She knows her way prior out.
She ignores her way around the terminal quite well.
She knows her way around the beer.
She knows her way around the terminal.
Yes, she knows.
I don't even know how to do that.
She knows all the commands and you're really-
I mean, there's very simple.
It's very simple though.
So she said to restart and store it from scratch
because I'm there a bit of work down.
So she knows all the terminal commands and you're even.
That's quite interesting.
She must be so proud.
I don't know how proud I was.
I was.
She came home one day.
So I had to do this and do this and do this.
She spent like three hours on-
um, she's the manager at work.
And um, the tech nuisance and freaking Singapore somewhere.
And um, she said, you know,
I just followed the distractions and did it myself.
So she installed the whole thing
and herself to get up and running.
That was quite proud of her actually.
Tell her I'm proud too.
So I figured it out.
That was the state that she was running.
So um, it's for some of the command.
There's really different BSDs.
No, I don't know what one.
I think it's a really, really old version.
I don't know what I hadn't even had a little bit more
of a terminal, but I think it's a really great thing.
I really, really old is in like 4.3 or
probably something really, really basic.
I think.
What's that?
BSD?
It's a way too old.
Um, she makes four.
Oh, I suppose no one's listening.
She made it.
No, no.
BSD 386.
Yes, she made this very thing.
So I'm pushing the thing.
I've had the same system for years.
They haven't probably had done anything.
But it's actually interesting.
I think it was Arby's that I've seen
using free-dose based terminals
for the screens out of the speaker for the drive.
Yeah, only a surprise about something like that.
So it sounds like it's just a really basic system.
This is a freaking old Windows thing.
Uh, it's definitely, um, it's not like,
no, it's definitely something really spaced.
It'll be a state-based, like that.
So she's using CIO and she's not CIO,
but she's using some commands that I only know for months.
So I, um, I love me.
I'm not that great on BSD,
but just for some of the stuff she was doing,
it sounds like it as a BSD.
Okay.
It looks quite interesting.
Does anyone here use BSD?
Free-nast, or?
I don't even use it sometimes.
The season for a server or BSD?
Is it a whip?
Well, BSD's, it's shiny as a server,
it doesn't really,
it's not a really good desktop at all.
Yeah, no, the BSD tried,
but I had not really,
it doesn't really interest me too much.
No, they're the best solution for a desktop
when using BSD right now.
The other options are pretty much crap.
There's only like two other options.
No, there's options to not use
BSD on a desktop because it's just to be the idea.
That too, yes.
It's not that bad.
It's not, it's not that bad.
You, you had to qualify with it's not that bad.
That is cool.
The issue, like,
I can't sit three, five minutes or so now I'm talking about BSD
on the BSD now.
You mean it's gone three past the first couple minutes.
Okay, well I guess it's not for you then.
No, it's not for me.
You tried to, you tried to get me into a store one day,
and in the end of the year,
it was about eight videos to how it's stored.
I couldn't, I got put to the first one and stopped.
And I'm just not a good, but text-based stores.
It just, I just wait,
I have to petition this drive this way,
if in this this way I'm like doing really want to do this with you spoiled spoiled man I know it's
like graphical stuff a real basic user I've been using Ubuntu for about two years Ubuntu
base destroys and I've actually got quite good you know I don't know my way around it yes I've
been I've been text Ubuntu installs yeah the best can I've done that's being stuff like that
well again when it comes to text based I had one person who had a laptop that would not
boot from CD-ROM would not boot from USB but we could get it to boot from network so we installed
over the network nice and then when does these ago my 486 I'd wipe my petition I couldn't
conduct billions of dots but it was about it so I managed to keep that done and without this
over the internet so I'm dial up and still I was quite proud of that fee I managed to do
you have it in you I know I like to watch stuff if I can watch someone do something I can
learn from it and that's pretty much how what's got me until when it's I don't like to all I
fiddle around with something for ages trying to get to work this is really hard for me actually
I get frustrated I just go no no if I get really into something I like to stop until I've actually
done it and if I get really frustrated I might go back to it and sort of what my personality is
like distra you running what meant Debian I'm pretty interesting although I'm probably going to
go back to arch the next time I do it whenever I do it you're in a distra hopping mode are you
no I usually pick one and stick for it for like a year but yeah I stand up going off distra hopping
I'm really just don't like I don't know if something here comes up now I know what it's like
I just don't worry that I've tried to wall so I'd like to be able to stick to the same distro and
try to get working the way I want to I don't know but I'd really want to move away from
mint anytime soon my install script is already getting robust enough that takes me three hours
to transfer to a new computer yeah well I like mint I mentioned about two things I switched back
at fourth two I think mint's quite a lot a lot easier on the eye I'm well not just I just like
the way around look not it's all other des Talks quite easily it's not too bad and they your
visions get better over time could give them up from month and month and successful be right so
I like you make I like makes a lot cinnamon yeah and 16s already really good you know how to
wait for it. So yeah I know I've tried I had my sister running most of last week each week
Mike and I conducted cinnamon vision ago and so if I can get better in I probably don't need to
people walked anyway. I really don't like to just throw the, you know,
camera up and it's not hit the menu. We find the mouse and even the mouse
it's the menu, it's a little bit walking. So then it has some weird quirks and
you install it. Yeah, it does. I do like, I'm starting to like
cinnamon though. Some of the things are really nice. Some of the ways you can
make the best of luck. I made a background picture slot. It's not a bad rule
for the Windows Manager. Well, I prefer cinnamon over all of them. But it's still
great for us. I like to see some of them a week now. I think maybe another
vision before I switch to a full car. No, it's, it's definitely ready for full-time
production. It's a good looking SKD though. Ah, the liar. Two point I was a much
mirror laced the 1.4. I'm 1.8. No, it's not a huge release difference now.
Pretty much, I mean, there's bug fixes and things like that. But the only
difference really that is a huge change is the tiling system.
Okay, okay. I think it's bigger that class fast. Yeah, that's performance bug
in bug fixes and stuff. No, they are rolling. They say, I've tried
with DBN. I just can't use DBN. I just get faster with DBN. Um, I, I, I
tested you something like that. Magaro or something from wrong release.
I just can't keep the jar on the system. We'll wait for it breaking. So I'm
staying away from the jar at the moment. I wouldn't tell people to use
the jar anyway. No, you're right. Yeah, everybody knows one jar is just for
people who don't know how to install art. No, that's what I'm saying.
And Jaro's for spatchery. Until a guy, a person who doesn't install or
know how to install arch. Yeah, good point.
There was a thing series that was funny. But when he comes to Mike, Mike,
when Jaro, that's a totally different situation than it would like in
Terrogos, because I actually like Terrogos.
Terrogos don't go a package manager. So it does all three to two
notes. She goes live. The whole point of in Terrogos is to make
arch and install easier. The problem with being around the store at the
moment, right? They've got to do some updates.
No, it doesn't hurt. It doesn't work for everyone. Do their hardware issues
or something like that. But for me, it worked fine.
Though I didn't, I put it on a USB drive. So I haven't put it on for a while.
What was it? What was Terrogos's name before they changed it?
Sinarch. Sinarch. It's right. I think they tried that.
And Terrogos is pretty cool.
That shouldn't interest me. It's a bit like a crunch being
just up the legs softly and down for Debian, but I'm really
a bit warm here. I made it a lot bigger, too, on this thing.
Wasn't it? What? I don't worry. I'm just looking at that. I'm just drawing what's
McCooler looks. There's a lot over the place.
Oh, McCooler Linux. There were your time out.
Yeah, they've, he's, he's pointing you on the scene. He's linked to the
open works community on. He looks like I'm
considered to the open works community. I think he's listening to
right. I know what Raven like. And all the stuff he's
he's, he sits in the other stuff. Raven does.
As he's doing, he's just becoming a bit too blotered.
You know, I think he's just, I think he's going to get
first trade because he's not really doing what he wants to do.
He's just listening to what other people are telling the
figure to just go back to what he wants to do. He's got a
logo. Are you talking about McCooler's
bloated? Yeah, I was when it came out a couple months.
Is it McCooler's mascot, a hippo? Yes.
That makes sense. Yeah, I don't know myself. I don't like the
thing. But unlike it, I mean, it's the closest
idea I've found to having where I want
or even a pre-storner. But I just didn't wait for it
or kind of make the shoes with the earring.
Yeah, I don't really, I don't really want a lot of stuff
In the coming system, I'm finding out if I could get a
distraught with wiring and stuff like that.
I don't use it for gaming now.
What a distraught with the video already
pre-stored, especially if it's deviant.
I don't know if they plot that meant a bit drier
from Solid Exit's Fine.
This is something basic.
I can find focus trends quite hard to get in
store on deviant. Oh, go straight sucks.
What's the US word?
It's a simple screen, but it's only available in that.
No, it isn't. It's on basically everything.
Have you got a PPA?
Yes, there's a PPA. It's an official PPA.
No, just go to Martin's website. It's official.
I can't be going to the website.
So you go for a simple screen recorder and
Google, a whole bunch of stuff comes up.
Why is it always for a simple screen recorder
was both a screen?
Not even. Not at all.
Okay.
Just use a fan peg.
No, that's what simple screen recorder is.
Yeah, I know.
I'm just too much reading.
Page uses, if you think, if you go to simple screen recorder,
you type in in Google.
The very first page is the right one.
Well, if you don't want to use a fan peg, use a Vcon.
I think you don't have any of that one either.
Well, in simple screen recorder, it uses a fan peg
to do it.
And I think it also uses
a fan peg.
It's supposed to be quite good for gaming this one.
I've done many, many game reviews and all.
I've tried to stay away from doing it.
It's the only recorder I know of that can actually do
full open GL recording.
So I should just think I'll have a look at it.
But toss today, a bit of video about
all these things on the simple screen recorder.
He said that screen recording on Linux was terrible.
And then he was using simple screen recorder to do it,
which is not terrible. It's great.
And he said it crashed a couple of times.
I don't know.
Why? Why would it do that?
I saw Rick and Toss was on Windows.
He did a video on, I'm sure he's made a screen look like a banter
with some of his videos.
I mean, he's actually on Windows.
He's just using, he's just using that program.
It changes the look and feel of Windows,
even if they can tell a banter.
Because I've noticed some things there that shouldn't be there.
I'm pretty sure that some of his videos he's using a banter
in pretending it's Linux.
I would highly doubt that.
I know Toss has been having,
he's been using some to me,
he's been having issues with his new idea drivers,
but I don't think he's better balanced.
He doesn't really use much a pattern from a banter.
And he gets frustrated quite easily on Linux.
And he did a video one day,
where he's got, I hate everything on leaving,
on leaving, on leaving, on leaving,
going back to Linux again these days,
but he's been on Linux.
I think you're confusing Toss with yourself.
No, I've done that before too.
I'll give you one so it doesn't pinch for it.
No, I've never done that.
Have you heard what was the name of the first baby born in 2014 in US?
We have four babies born in US.
Was it, I think I know it is.
Is it spattery?
No, it's so unique.
Miracle Randall.
What?
Reference name.
So unique spelled S-O-A-P-O-T-U-N-I-Q-U-E.
Second name.
Miracle.
Last name Randall.
Other than my boy.
It's like the Erica spelling.
We've seen that one.
Yeah.
Erica.
You know how my wife is not trying to hit kids?
No, because it's not even a spelling,
a weird spelling of an actual name.
It's just so unique.
Oh, you have to come up with some unique name for a baby.
Let's call her, I guess.
So unique.
Some baby names are actually born in New Zealand.
I've done this for these guys before.
There's a whole list of about 59s that are actually
born in New Zealand.
Parents can't call their kids after.
Yeah, I can believe it.
Prince is one like that.
I think it has people.
Correct.
That is awesome.
Erica.
Like that.
We spilt Erica like that.
Click the link.
Sorry, John.
Or not.
He was saying something.
Oh, yeah, with a name like that, it'd better be a girl.
I mean, I...
Some people just don't realize the kind of issues.
One small joke.
Yeah, I know.
Parents don't.
I'm really going to be really...
I can just pay safe.
I think they don't care about their kids' names.
Because like,
I was talking to somebody and they said they knew a guy.
Whose name was Michael Hunt.
And they always called him Mike.
So yeah, it's quite hard to keep.
I've been...
No one's ever showed me my name.
But I don't get called Lucas at school quite a few times.
That's...
That's lazy.
I know.
And admittedly, no matter what you choose,
they're going to get made fun of.
Yep.
If they're going to get made fun of.
Kill my child.
Kill my child.
I tell you,
they will think of the weirdest damn shit in the world.
But mostly the like, the laziest ones.
Because they called my name is Michael.
They called me Michelle.
It's like, well, that's the French name.
And I am French.
So yeah, sure.
Go ahead.
Michelle is different in French.
What?
I'm in Michelle's.
You were right.
Just pronounced differently.
And spelled differently in front.
No.
Michael is pronounced Michelle.
Yeah, there's one in the French.
Anyway,
um,
I'm going to terminate me.
My kid's hangle met Gringo Berry.
I suppose there's no name limits in the state.
So I could prove that they don't name it anyone.
It shouldn't be a name limits anywhere.
This is what's just moving.
Tom and Seth should be the only thing that let me tell you.
Tom and Seth should be the only thing that let me tell you.
We'd like to go back in time
and have a place to sell.
We can tweak the zone of the state.
And the sense is that common.
Anyway, sister's name was KitKat.
It was her proper name.
I can't really decide if I want to name them.
Hangle met Gringo Berry or AA Ron Balaki.
So we're one of the,
one of our friends.
I, um,
mine actually know we've known.
His name was Delmi.
D-E-L-E-N-E.
That was interesting.
I felt like we've done it's a good though.
If they're good,
flashy names like, um,
might actually put some of shark.
Be quite the duck bed.
The angel, um,
they may have put,
again, I can't remember.
No, I do.
I don't pay attention to that stuff.
No, I don't need to really.
I know.
They probably, they probably named him after me.
Call him right.
It's cooler.
If I had a, if we do have piston here,
um,
I have a son on the school mail-in that I have a girl.
It's called angel.
That's, it's simple.
I call her Erica.
All right, I have to,
Erica,
you know, I have to be working a few hours out,
but they go to bed.
Yeah, they call it Quits,
so I'm telling you so.
Yeah.
Uh, yeah, Erica.
I think I'm really good one, sorry.
Um, you see, you see the picture of the guy
who was like the very first person to buy weed and Colorado.
No, it's incredibly creepy.
It's a, he's like handing the money over,
and he's got his weird creepy smile in his face.
And behind him was like 20 people with cameras
taking his picture and stuff like.
Okay.
That's not the best thing to be.
They make it the money,
you know what I mean?
Well, that's going to work really well at the divorce hearing.
Yeah.
Like, I'd happily be numbered two.
It's like, no, you go first, I insist.
Okay.
Have you noticed that the majority of the stuff
that we've talking about is not hacker related?
Well, anything, no, I mean, we did this last time after that four hours
and just took that random trick.
We talked about hunting for a while.
It was interesting.
And while I'm picking some earphones,
posses an easier way to get a Australian guy on,
it was talking about Willoughby's.
The best way to do hunting is Walmart.
Yep. Great.
What we have said here.
Hunting inside of Walmart.
Hunt for Walmart shins.
Yep.
What are you competing for with my we has vouchers
that I got?
That's quite happy with it.
It's quite nice having a nice cheer.
Have you ever heard of a clocker?
No.
They are awesome.
Hold on.
For my birthday, I've got $100 out of the vouchers.
And I've just been, I've just been 14,
you know what, right?
And for the coffee bag, for the flesh drive,
for the couple of tea sheets, that's quite happy.
And most of what you got, I say.
William, you're very quiet.
Here.
That is a clocker.
I don't know why something will be quiet,
but that's what I'm trying to say.
They're freaking adorable.
Little more simply, it was only living in Australia.
Could be a case of going on in your tent Hope.
Well, on one of the islands, but yes.
Right.
And also, there's like a, I didn't know this,
but if you feed a clocker, you could actually kill it.
Does it only eat certain type of food,
and if you give it to anything else, it'll kill it.
It's like most animals.
If you feed them something bad, they'll die.
Yeah, but I mean, like things that you think would be okay,
like nuts or something.
Like they only eat like a certain type of,
like one thing or like two things max.
And if you give me anything else, it just kills them,
or it potentially could kill them.
But they're happy to eat it.
Yeah, because I don't know.
They're not aware that people who are giving it to them are stupid.
Like, maybe this is the new flavor.
So William, do you convince anybody to give me
to buy that sever rack for you?
What?
It's sever rack you're looking for.
Convince anyone to give me one?
Yeah.
From Craigslist, nah.
You can do it.
So I haven't even tried.
You're going to put a little effort into it.
I mean, a little extra stuff too.
I haven't eaten actually.
I haven't even looked.
So it's in book sucks, right?
Sucks, nah, it's fucking great.
I think you're a shield for races.
Yeah, that must be it, dude.
Yeah, you're being paid to say that.
Aw, Fox server cabinets are bad terms.
Bad terms.
Yeah, because the cabinet with a server built in is a fucking thing.
Like for a dinner set,
server cabinets, a dinner thing.
Yeah, you didn't know that?
No, I didn't.
Yeah.
I'm still here, you're talking about that.
I have no idea.
I guess server cabinets for dinner, like your table.
Yeah.
Fucking sucks.
Oh, should I get an old IBM cabinet?
Hell yeah.
Yeah, we're going to see how to take a cabinet.
It's just one of you.
I'm going to get a less premium one.
Yeah, that thing.
I could get one of those beast mode things.
Yeah, that's not excessive at all.
All right.
That's fucking awesome is what it is.
It sounds broofed in everything.
Holy shit.
What the fuck?
That's awesome.
It's $50 as long as I go pick it up.
What?
$50?
Yeah, $50.
They just want to eat the fuck out of it.
They want to get the fuck rid of it.
It's old, but shit's fucking awesome looking.
Someone's trying to sell a used server cabinet for $2,000.
But what kind of fucking bullshit is this?
I can buy one for $1,000 brand new.
Like what the fuck?
Why would I buy this?
Caterpillar turbo diesel powered trailer mounted
100 kilowatt power unit.
That's a really good deal though, that IBM won.
Shit.
The $50.
Of course, it's a good deal.
It's a great fucking deal.
Holy shit.
I should go pick that up.
I wonder where that is.
Odds are asking me like 800 miles from you.
No, they give a Google map.
Here we go.
Oh fuck me.
The new Brunswick.
Where is this?
So yeah, they hire miles.
No, they're far.
At far, but it's not.
That's not the Lehigh Valley though.
I cannot be the Lehigh Valley.
Basically, it's pretty much in Manhattan.
More or less.
The way I see it.
I drive like an hour there, pick that up.
It's not too bad, I guess.
How's the new Brunswick going to use it for?
It's close, man.
The way I see it.
The way I see it, it may as well be in Manhattan.
Because of how far away I am.
What are you going to use for?
It's like saying, it's like saying,
fucking Alan lives in Toronto.
I mean, he basically does as far as I'm concerned.
Close enough, yeah, I guess.
Yeah, it's close enough.
So what do you need the server for just to have it?
Cabness, I can put my servers in it.
Right, but do you need a cabinet?
I don't like them just lying around everywhere if I get sucks.
It's okay, it looks like the cabinet.
If it's only an hour away, I mean, it's worth it
drive to get $50.
Yeah, $50, fucking cabinet.
Totally worth it.
I just gonna remember, it's 40s you use.
They're gonna make sure you have a car,
fucking room for that kind of thing.
I went and got it.
That's pretty fucking big.
Eight-foot bed should be fine.
Takes some, yeah, takes some decent rope.
Wonder how much thing weighs.
It looks like it weighs a lot.
That's why they say if you can pick it up.
Yeah, you can pick it up, but you...
I mean, we're not even considering helping you.
Take a hand try.
It's like some of those restaurants, you know,
if you can eat the whole, you can have it for free,
but this is gonna be quite a show.
Be careful, maybe a doctor.
How do you doctor, in fact?
He's just tricking you.
It's like, oh, I need help.
I happen to be a doctor.
No entrance, no problem.
Look at this bullet!
You can sign up for a bone cure while you're here.
For existing conditions, don't matter.
Can Bedoufleur and Rocksmash, I need to know.
Well, did you just use English then?
What was that?
Playing Pokemon then.
Ah, that's a gangster.
You all hear about Snapchat getting attacked
and 4.6 million users.
Information has been taken and put online.
Good, they deserve it.
Yeah, I agree.
The people who have...
Does that include the pictures?
No, just the data for the users and their phone numbers.
There are phone numbers.
Yeah, it makes it interesting.
Yep.
The numbers, actually, the people who released it
decided to censor a couple letters
or a couple numbers so you couldn't...
it wouldn't affect them immediately.
But if you asked them for the numbers, they might give it to you.
Of course, there's, you know, not that many other company.
They only censor things like two numbers that are available
so it's possible to still spam them.
But the people who are doing it
gave Snapchat like two months or something.
Actually, I think it was more than that.
Like maybe three or four
to fix the whole they found
and Snapchat just ignored them.
So they're like, okay, well, we're going to make you do it now.
Why are you muted if you're...
Well, he's not.
I'm still here and disconnects.
He hates Admin's.
Yeah, that's all that.
I like how Jupiter's dead and everyone's in here.
Well, it's just me.
Like is that all about you and Fressel?
Well, yeah, Fressel left though.
So we actually had like five or six people
from Jupiter in here earlier.
I don't know why.
Just because maybe we wanted to be on a podcast.
Maybe that's what it was.
I want to be on a podcast all the time.
It's my voice is soothing and everybody would love it.
The soothing sounds of Kiss FM
98.6
Clear channel when there's really nothing else to listen to.
Exactly.
History channel.
When you don't care if it's actually history.
Somebody made a thing I'll read it.
It said the history channel.
I show the picture of that idiot with a weird hair
and says, I'm not saying it's aliens.
Like, I'm not saying it's aliens.
But aliens.
Like, okay.
So I did a Halloween costume as that guy.
And he carried around the side and said, aliens.
It's awesome.
So...
Steph.
Mr. Gadget seems to be quiet for like an hour or two.
He's been idle for eight hours.
Yep, definitely quiet.
Idle for two days.
Three hours.
Fifteen hours.
Going down the list by the way.
Five hours.
Eight hours.
And a day and twenty hours.
That's a lot of idlers.
Such a lowly place.
So is this thing over?
Well, the woods talk.
So that will be known that there are still eight people listening for somebody.
Okay, I'm going to shut this down if nobody continues talking.
Okay, this is a half hour later.
Nobody's been talking.
Daddy's got a gun.
It's over.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on day through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the infonomicum computer cloud.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are proudly sponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis,
today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a like,
lead us our license.
