Episode: 1590
Title: HPR1590: The xfs File System
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1590/hpr1590.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 05:30:32

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
HBR15.com.
Hello everyone, I'm JWP and I'm
continuing here in my series on file systems. Today I'm going to talk about an old
file system that recently has come back and become very popular. It's called
XFS file system. XFS is especially interesting because of its IO
performance and its volume size. Today it's the default for enterprise systems
using big search things. Hadoop and SAP HANA use XFS as their
file systems. So XFS combines advanced journaling technology with full 64-bit
addressing and scalable structures and algorithms. This combination delivers
the most scalable high-performance file system ever conceived. XFS
journaling system has yet another file system originally created for the
commercial Linux system that made its way into the Linux world. Silicon
Graphics Incorporated originally started XFS in 1994 for its commercial
RxUnix system. It was released to the Linux environment for common use in
2002. XFX file system uses right-back mode of journaling, which provides high
performance but does introduce an amount of risk because the actual data isn't
stored in the journal file. The XFS file system also allows online resizing of
the file system similar to a RISER FS file system except XFS file systems can
only be expanded, not shrunk. The XFS, I mean it's really really fast. I mean if
you go to SGI they have a lot of stuff on there. There's a whole SGI wiki and
I was unaware that SGI had really ever done anything. So maybe we ought to sit
back and say thank you for to SGI. I mean my last one we said IBM with
JFS and so all of these commercial systems are now moving into the open source
and a lot of times the open source things are even better than the commercial one.
All right I hope you enjoyed this about XFS. XFS is really coming back I think
into the mainstream. I think most of the commercial Linux distributions are
going to be moving to XFS in the near future. I'm not sure if canonical is
because they're doing their base in their enterprise business mostly on
open stack these days. So we'll have to see what canonical is going to do but
I know for sure that Sousa and Red Hat and their next incarnation are probably
going to go to fault with XFX. All right hey take care you all have a great day.
If you'll need to contact me it's JWP5 at hotmail.com. Thank you very much.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a
community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like
yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our
contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded
by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and it's part of
the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show
please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a
follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated today's show is released on
the creative comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
