Episode: 1878
Title: HPR1878: What's In My Bag
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1878/hpr1878.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 10:42:33

---

This is HPR Episode 1878 entitled, What's in my bag, and in part of the series, What's in my toolkit,
It is hosted by me and in about 9 minutes long, The summer is, What's in my travel bag for my upcoming client trip.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code, HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello hacker public radio, this is Bee Easy once again, signing in for another episode.
It's going to be a short one, I'm going to do a quick little, What's in my bag.
Once again, I'm recording from my phone, so we'll see how it goes.
Last time it sounded pretty good, so I'll do another one.
If you are ever interested in the timing of my episodes, it usually happens right after I hear the feedback from my last episode before I do the next one,
because I want to make sure I'm not going in some entirely random tangent that nobody cares about.
Anyway, I'm glad that when I didn't depend, I can mark down as well received.
Here's my little, What's in my bag. I'm getting ready to go on a client trip next week.
I'm packing up my bag now and I figured, Hey, why not?
I'll start out with my USBs because I keep quite a few of them in my bag.
So I keep in a 64 gig, AXT4, formatted drive with basically nothing on it.
And that's just something I just keep in there, as who knows when I'll ever need it back up.
I also keep a two gig, fat 32 formatted drive, and then I use that for a class that have windows only,
so I can get in and out of their file systems.
The new entry into my USB family is Apricorn, or Apricorn, Aged Security.
I got the 16 gig variety, and it is a hardware encrypted device.
I work with a lot of patient data and a lot of health information, so I got this one because it's such it is encrypted at the levels of the United States government.
So I just got it. I'm just playing with it and putting it in my bag to see if I'm going to use it.
I found out that when you unlock it, so it's hardware encrypted, it's on battery.
So it has to have a charge, so right now I'm charging it through the USB.
And you have to obviously change the default password and stuff.
But hopefully this will be in my bag, because usually what I do is I create a file on my file system using F Allocate.
I create an ISO and I use the GNU disks to make it a lux encrypted file system on that F Allocated ISO.
And use that as my, and then I mount it when I need it.
And use that. The only problem with that is that it's not really, I mean it's portable and that I can put it on an external drive and move it around, but I can't just plug it in and mount it to different computers.
But if you don't know about F Allocate, you can probably look at the man page of F Allocates pretty cool.
Other than that, I'm hoping that this will be something I can use in that place, because usually what I do is I make that ISO file.
And then when I'm done, I use GNU shred and shred that F Allocated thing.
Hopefully this will be something that I can use instead. That's more portable.
I'll also keep an eight gig USB three that has some live disk on it.
That's my emergency. If my computer breaks while I'm on site somewhere, I can still do work because I have a live CD, a live disk that works.
Right now on there is Corora 22, just because I was playing with Corora and I just left it on there. So that's my emergency backup right now.
What else is in my bag?
Let's see. Oh, my laptop, system 76, Galaga Ultra Pro, eight gig of RAM, dual SSDs, one like M2 Santa.
The other one is the regular two and a half inch.
Works pretty good. Keep a lot of my stuff on here.
You know, it's my workhorse. It's the I7 variant. So it's my workers. I do a lot of work on there. Have different virtual machines and stuff.
It's my daily driver. And a lot of times I'll be sitting at my desktop and I'll just remote into that one because I like using that so much.
I also have a, I don't know if I'll be taking it, but it's in my bag right now.
Half a terabyte external hard drive. I keep a lot of storage with just because I like to make a lot of copies and stuff when I'm on site because I don't want to ever delete stuff too much and lose it.
And I keep a lot of, like I keep an extra copy of, I have a Windows 8 virtual box machine on there.
And you know, backups, backups of stuff that I go on enough, take enough of my computer.
And I also have a Logitech Ultra Thin Bluetooth mouse. I just got it. It's pretty cool. It's a really low profile.
And I just got it replacing my Microsoft ARK mouse, which I used all the time and I love it, but the missus always takes it. So I had to get a second mouse.
And so this one works pretty good. It's a Bluetooth mouse, like I said. And the only problem with it is that the charging lasts for about a day, maybe a day and a half at best.
So I have to bring the charger with it when I go out.
And then I obviously have the charger for my phone. I also have an external, an extra battery for my phone because the LG G4, which is my phone, has an external battery.
And I have, you know, random papers I need for my client. I also have my client dedicated computer, which is an HP business model, something or other, which is not that important.
And I'm not going to go into that. And then I have my business card case with my business cards in it.
An actual pen, which if you can believe it, I still carry a pen just in case there's an off-chance that I actually use a pen instead of writing notes on my computer.
I also have my Nexus 7 in here with a Bluetooth keyboard case on it. That was only like 12 bucks from China.
And I'm actively looking in it right now. That's pretty much it. That's what I carry with me on a daily basis when I go out on site to my clients.
Let's see. I also have my DVI to mini display port converter. And sometimes I'll either take that one or my VJ to micro to mini display port converter for when I have to present stuff.
Because the system 76 has HDMI and mini display ports of the projectors have one of those other things. I'll bring either both or one of those with me as well.
And last but not least, I have my headphones which are some clips, beer earbuds that I got on Amazon for a pretty good price. They are my travel headphones.
And they are actually the nicest headphones I own, whether my travel headphones because I don't want to mess up my nice stuff with my kids and stuff around.
So I use my little 599 earbuds around the house, but I use my expensive ones when I go on the road for both entertainment and listening to my hacker public radio episodes and whatnot.
But also, it's one design with a mic on it, so it actually has really good sound coming out of it for when I have to do meetings.
So a lot of times, even when I'm in the house, I'll record, I'll listen through my headphones and use that mic instead of using the horrible sound that comes out of speakers.
Not very much else to report, so this is be easy, signing off.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club, and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, Share a Life, 3.0 license.
