Episode: 1922
Title: HPR1922: The case to backup Google email.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1922/hpr1922.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 11:10:53

---

This is HPR episode 1922 entitled The Case to Mach Up Google Email.
It is posted by first-time postarcher 72 and is about 1 minute long.
The summary is a quick example of how I imported a Mach Up on email.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15 that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello HPR. I'm Archer 72 in the IRC. I'm recording on a lapel mic suggested by John
Colp using a Samsung Galaxy S2 to record. I'm making a case for not relying solely on
Google's service for your email. I have a reason for regularly backing up Gmail now.
Backed up on Google Takeout a couple months ago and I lost a couple months later I lost emails
and needed to restore them. I read that I could import them into the Thunderbird Client
so I installed the import export tools and imported the inbox that I had backed up before
on Google Takeout. I have them back but I'm still in the process of sorting mail folders.
So see a $2 mic and a phone is all you need. Thanks John Colp for the suggestion.
You've been listening to HECCA Public Radio at HECCA Public Radio.org. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like
all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. HECCA Public
Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part
of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email
the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the Creative Commons, Attribution,
Share a Light 3.0 license.
