Episode: 1260
Title: HPR1260: Interview with GMC about OHM 2013
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1260/hpr1260.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 22:34:02

---

This is Nidomedia. Welcome to Hacker Public Radio. With me is GMC organizer of the
OM 2013. Welcome. Thank you. And for the listeners what's OM 2013? Could you tell me a bit about
the event? Yes, OM 2013 stands for Observe Hack Make and it's the next installment basically of
the four yearly Dutch hacker camps. They happen every four years. The last one was in 2009,
hacking at random. We had about two and a half thousand visitors. We expect to have about
three thousand this year and well what happens here? I mean we are at the terrain now because it's
the field day. We are measuring all the tents and the terrain. There will be at least three large
tents where lectures will take place about many subjects like deeply technological hacking,
but also more esoteric topics, political, ideological. Well you name it. It's going to be
basically four days of completely interesting content on lots of subjects. Well next to that there
will be a lot of workshop tents where people can actually do stuff. There will be a large
hardware hacking area with a mobile fab lab, actually two mobile fab labs. An area where people can
just sit down and solder or make stuff. There's going to be a tent where there will be workshops
on learning how to solder. Mish Altman is going to do a part of that. And for the rest yeah it's
a camping event so people will stay here day and night during the multi day event. It's a multi day
event. Yeah it's from July 31st until August 4th and well people arrive here they set up the tent
along the lecture tents and the workshop tents. They will listen to the lectures and at night
they will have parties and fun. Okay could you tell me a bit about the history of this event because
you told some ones called this wasn't the first time? Yeah it's every four years. This is I think
the sixth time. It basically started out in 1989 in Amsterdam that the hackers seen there
around Roopgrongaip what later would become well hectic the magazine and later that became
access for all the internet provider. But they already had visions. I mean this is 1989 right
there wasn't internet in every home. They had visions of how internet would change the world and
the impact it would have on society. So they decided to organize an event around that. It was in
Paradiso that was indoors. It was two days I think a couple of 200-300 people there.
Four years later let's do it again but this time well let's take the hackers out of their
comfortable zone and put them outside in the field you know and that's 93. Still not everyone is
internet but what did they do? They went into a camping field in the middle of nowhere and
put internet there, tent, lectures, had a lot of fun. So that I was so much fun that I decided to
do it again four years later and four years later and well now it's 2013 and time for a next
installment. Okay where will this event be held? Well it's in Geistman Ambacht which is a recreational
area in the Netherlands, North Holland next to Altma. It's about I think 45 minutes from Amsterdam
driving. Public transport is a bit longer. We will also for the people coming with public transport
make sure there is transport from the nearest train station to the event terrain because that's
also if you take a bus it's quite a drive but we have direct shuttle so it's it's going to be
conveniently to go by public transport as well. Okay and when will this event be held?
Yeah we just have a short interview but oh you don't sorry. No problem. We have something to say
because we have like three minutes of interview and we're out of questions. What kind of people
do you expect at the event? What kind of people were there last year or last year four years ago?
Any prominence? It's a hacker festival so of course you will have hackers. Well this being
hacker public radio I don't think I have to explain what hackers are and you'll see hackers from
all over the world actually. Not only the Netherlands, lots of Germans, of course Belgium people but
also from Father Ray East in Europe and Hack even from from America like well we have someone
here. The hacker on a plane. Hack is on a plane yeah. Hack is on a plane we'll be back
yes or on. That's Nick Farr in the back of the car from America as I say all over the world
maybe you can tell us a bit about hackers on a plane. Well hackers on a plane started way back
at the CCC camp in 2007 just as a way of facilitating interactions between hackers in the United
States Canada Mexico that side of the pond and hackers in Europe and 2007 we brought 40 people to
the camp at the CCC and then every European camp since we've been bringing over more and more
Americans to enjoy all the wonderful things at camp and have people form relationships or
solidify relationships online everybody who comes over here is always fascinated by all the
projects and lectures and all of the great parties and everything else that happens at the camp.
Okay for the people for the people who are in America and who want to know more about the hackers
on a plane where do they need to go. Hackers on a plane.info. Okay and it's basically open for
anyone. Anyone can join in for for one price you get the flight over here your transport housing
food everything taken care of here for you and flight back. It's a great way for people who have
never been to Europe or have never been to a camp to experience it a lot of people who came in 2007
who came to Har have since made other friends and are eager to go back and they make plans on
their own knowing what to expect but if you're at all afraid about attending home where you don't
you want some more I guess personal guidance and want somebody to get you from the airport
bring you here make sure you have a tent make sure you have everything you need hackers on a plane
is the way to go. Hackers on a plane.info. Yeah sure sure anything else you want me to ask?
I'm gonna edit it off the watch. Can you warm me up at all? Can you warm me up at all?
Well I don't know what the balance that we're going into to all kind of things which we don't
which we don't want records off. I'm seriously considering he leaving this part in.
Oh yeah okay yeah because of the plane in for ever. Okay if people want to know more about
home 2013 where can they find more information? Well they could go to home2013.org that's
OHM2013.org there's all the information and actually the special thing about these events is
there are no visitors everyone who comes also participates in making the event the event it is
so that means that people who speak here are all community members the people who build up
the infrastructure all volunteers and that's what makes it special so if people listening want to
contribute to that there's also a call for participation out where people can send in lectures but
not only lectures also workshops art installations lightning talks every kind of content that could
contribute to the excellence of these events and well along the way there will be a site for
volunteers to sign up for shifts doing the well necessary but sometimes boring with always fun work
there's lots of shifts to fill which ranges from introducing the speakers on stage to
well doing duty cleaning toilets although we are seriously considering hiring some students for
that this time because it's hard to find volunteers to clean the toilets. Yes but there's also
other stuff like cooking food driving people around yep the shittles the last the last time it
was a volunteer driven thing is that the same that's the same thing yeah so if you want to try
driving around in a big car there's something for you yep if you want to hook up the power
infrastructure I mean do you want to build a network for 3000 people on the campsite this is the
way to go. Surprisingly the network team is never sure out of volunteers I don't know why but
that would be setting up a data center here and and mind you this is the middle of nowhere that's
I mean it's there's nothing here it's just a flat land well some artificial like aesthetic hills
here we have to put in everything the network the power shower toilets well tents that are suited
for giving lectures to 1500 2000 people it's all going to be built from scratch by volunteers.
Okay so there you have it on 2013 it's going to be a great event and I'm going to be there I hope
to see you there I'm of course I'm going to see you there GMC and Nick you too of course and well
and I'm counting on a special edition of Echo Public Radio from the Beals River Radio studio
we'll figure something out cool okay and so for more information on on 2013 check out on
2013.org for more information on hackers on a plane check out hackers on a plane.info thank you
that's it cool all right thanks thank you
you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does our
we are a community podcast network the releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by a hbr listener like yourself if you ever
consider recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy it really is Hacker
Public Radio was founded by the digital dark pound and the economical and computer cloud
hbr is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com all binref projects are proudly sponsored by
Lina pages from shared hosting to custom private clouds go to Lina pages.com for all your hosting
needs unless otherwise stasis today's show is released under a creative commons
attribution share a life lead us our lives
