Episode: 1507
Title: HPR1507: HPR Community News for April 2014
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1507/hpr1507.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 04:30:11

---

.
Hello everybody, my name is Kanthalam and you are listening to Hacker Public Radio Community News for the month of April.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Joining me tonight are Dave.
Say hello Dave.
Hello.
And Colin.
How are you Colin?
Hi, I'm fine, thanks.
This is your first time on the community news.
It is.
And given that the first show that I took part on was Poké's audio book club,
this may well be the first episode that goes out that I'm on.
Ah, that's...
No, his will go up first because of many different reasons.
Anyway, for those of you just joining or how have just joined Hacker Public Radio in the last month or so,
the community news is the thing that we do every month just to give you an idea of what was going on in and around the HPR community.
HPR community being all the people who listen to it as opposed to all the people who are on the back end working
feverishly, which are more people than you think.
And as HPR is the peer driven community meaning year, if you're listening, you're supposed to be contributing in one way or another at least one show a year.
This gives you an idea of what's happening on the mailing list where most of the stuff goes on.
But first, one of the things that we like to do is to welcome new hosts.
And as I traditionally butcher them, I'll pass that over to Dave and Colin.
Right, remember to push to talk Dave.
Yes, this month, so April's new hosts are X-1101, which I have always stumble over because the numbers jumble in my head.
But I think he also has difficulty saying it, just from the shows I've heard.
And John Duart, I think he pronounces it me on the end, but Duart, I think.
Very good. And we're doing something slightly different from this month on with the hosts in that we're only putting in the hosts once the show has been aired.
Up until now, we've been adding new hosts, but we've got an amazing new script that does the community news show notes, which saves a lot of time and hassle.
Thank you for that.
Yeah, very welcome. And we'll be expanding on that later on as well.
But first things that we like to do is go through some of the shows that we that were on last month.
And just have a little chat about them. Give them some love.
So the first show was OSI layer three, which was a breakdown of the OSI model and network communications with an example of layer three given particular focus on geographically diverse horse addressing.
And in this case, we were focusing mostly on the telephone system.
So what did you all think of this show?
Yes, I liked the joke. I liked the joke. Yes, it was not it was actually quite fun to listen to as well.
But I like the the aside that some people inserted into their their reading of phone books.
It was a quite funny, the professional services as opposed to the normal pressure.
I did. Poki was a Poki who managed to give actual interesting.
He was reading off actually area or zip codes, was it?
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah, I thought it would have been something useful.
So a mine was just all the various different variations of Poki's name in some fictitious village in Ireland.
Yeah, I listened to the episode all the way through and every five minutes I'd be thinking, what is going on?
It was it was quite good to listen to. It was quite interesting in parts.
I like the extra bits that were thrown in that were quite interesting.
I kept coming to it thinking, is there a code in this that I need to be trying to work out?
Yeah, exactly. It's been a long-standing tradition.
If you go back to the first of April episodes on Hackimovic Radio, there's always been, we've always done something.
At least when it falls on a weekday, we've done something.
The first one I think was the show was just played in reverse.
So the pre-process just a little more.
They're all still up there if you want to go and get them.
And the best part was was deviates.
Many of you probably don't know.
New people deviates had a podcast and he did it on his commution to work.
And the tagline was he was driving 90 miles an hour down the freeway and then he's given a nice episode on X11 configuration.
And at the end you hear the car veer off and explode.
That's a good show.
That's where the gap between the ditches came from.
That was the one where he didn't, presumably.
Possibly, yeah.
Last year we had the OSI Layer 2, which was the most cold reading of the Wikipedia article.
And we got two shows out of that.
But this year was a thing has come up on HPR.
That's, you know, especially on the community news that they are such a good host that you could hear them.
You could listen to them reading a phone book and hence that's where the origins of this one came from.
It was actually quite funny one of the one of the chaps on the naming no names on the news group.
Was doing an ongoing discussion about I expected an OSI Layer 3.
But all I hear is some people reading out the phone book.
So there's a bit of towing and throwing and thankfully nobody let the cat out of the bag.
And eventually he took it himself.
So all I had, good show.
And thanks to everybody who contributed to that.
So let's move on.
The following day we had the second part in batteries by Mr X.
And this is on my, my referral list to be honest.
Yeah, listen to episode one.
Go back and before you buy any batteries or charges go back and listen to episode one.
Very, very good episode.
It made me realize listening to this and the previous one.
So many devices I probably killed by not treating the batteries properly.
So it's I think everybody should be well aware of the stuff.
Oddly enough it was this episode was one that was really looking forward to after the first one.
And some of the things he just talks about in between.
And some of the sections were referring to some of the equipment that he's got as really quite interesting.
Absolutely, I was actually did there doing some renovation work in work.
And I heard one of the contractors going, and he kept out of that.
I was on my way down to go, don't do that.
You got to kill the battery.
Anyway, right shall we move on?
And what's on my podcast player?
And if you go to this episode, you'll see that there's an icon now for the podcast recommendations.
It's a bit ugly, so I am calling upon the CSS experts.
Please, please come and help me make this prettier.
Thank you.
Oh, I don't think it's that bad.
It's got nice blue to it.
I'm looking at it right now.
The icon's fine, but the positioning is crude.
So yes, we need we need our team of crack CSS experts to send you a lot.
You know who you are.
The following day was 1480 continuous ink supply system.
And this was an episode requested on that.
This was something that I came across on.
It was by myself.
Came across on IRC and somebody had mentioned in there about continuous ink supply systems.
And I had never used them.
And on the very day that this aired, it had been in the reserve queue for a while.
But on the day that this aired, my ink system,
which I've been running for over a year and a half,
one of the ink cartridges went dodgy, even though the thing was full.
So I went and got this range and reprimed it.
And it's been printing fine ever since.
It's still printing fine on the one thing.
If you don't have a continuous ink supply system and you do have children,
you should seriously consider getting one.
Yeah, absolutely.
How long has it been running for then if it's been in the reserve queue for a while?
How long have you been running the system?
About a year, at least a year.
Because I got it from my son's a year and a half now.
And there's still about half.
All the containers are still about half full.
And believe me, I printed a three sheets on this T-shirts for,
for all camp actually as well.
I printed, you know, just loads of stuff for laminating and, you know,
loads of, for birthday parties, for kids, coloring, drawing things.
And you just don't need to think about it.
Just print, print, print, print, print, print, print.
It sounds fantastic. I'll have to give it a look.
Yeah.
I want the same for a laser printer.
Yeah.
A continuous toner system, please.
That would be impressive.
Can I just say about that?
I mean, examples of one of the really, sorry, excellent examples of show notes.
The show notes on here with the text, the links and the YouTube videos are really comprehensive.
Wow. Thank you very much.
No problem. It just really helps in terms of picking it up and actually going through it.
It's really handy for someone to then pick up and look into it and maybe replicate what you've done there.
Yes. As this is this, I think, I like all the shows to have show notes like this,
but this one, particularly, I do tend to do stuff for myself.
And I know that my target audience is me because I forget stuff.
So if I document it properly, then I can go back and get it.
So in actual fact, when the ink ran out, I went back to this page and then was able to play the video and just have a printer.
So it's pretty good.
But even if you're not into continuous ink supply systems, I think there is something there on how to pick a printer regardless.
What functions you want, will it work on Linux, will it really work on Linux?
And then that pretty much goes for any piece of kit that you want to get.
Yeah. Good advice.
Okay. The next day in our Privacy and Security series and the CSS really highlights how bad it is here
because the warping and stuff is or the wrapping and stuff is terrible.
It is an episode on encryption using Gmail.
And this is a hooker taking on this task for us, which I'm really glad he's doing.
And how to do Gmail. I personally use Gmail via IMAP.
And I'm only pulling in emails from Gmail now, more or less, which to cannot find that I for all my correspondence.
I didn't know it was possible to do this with the webmail interface that there will be times I might want to do that actually.
I do the same as you, I use an IMAP to face to Gmail when I use Gmail. It's really useful.
It's very useful and I hope that this thing will, it doesn't do, it was an encryption.
It does signing or not encryption, I really can't remember.
It does one and not the other, but only something to keep an eye on and hats off to hooker for doing this stuff for us.
The following day in part of our podcast recommendation series with the big blue icon.
Thanks to OpenClipark.org.
A hooker with what's on my podcast pair version two.
My skipping over ones here.
No. No, you're good.
Do we cover version one previously?
You did, yes, when you first mentioned the icon.
Oh, that's right. Oh, right, well, sorry, we've got to talk about this.
You're actually, so very good.
Lots of Doctor Who stuff. I didn't know he was a Doctor Who phone.
No, it's interesting, like, you know, other people's lists of podcasts.
Yeah, I'm just lining up to do one myself.
Yeah, flooding, flooding the market.
I don't want to flood the market with these things.
No, actually, because I run out of podcasts today with my seller thingy.
So I'm now listening to backass episodes of Resonance Frequency Ham Radio Podcast,
who's founder started the Linux and the handshake with our good friend K5 Talks.
These ones are quite good, this series.
There's no reason why if you do a podcast series that in year or two, you can't do another one,
like as what's in my bag episode I did one that was in the backup queue that's coming up shortly.
And I probably need to refresh it with all with the changes that has happened in my life sense.
So, these feel free to do more than one of these episodes if you come across additional podcasts
or additional stuff in your toolkit that you want to share with us.
I was quite amazed at how many podcasts he was managing to squeeze into his time.
I think my podcast list is probably about half that and I struggle to listen to them all.
Are you speeding up your podcasts?
Sorry?
Do you speed up your podcasts?
Oh, yes, I do. I'm using a podcaster on Android that's now got the multiple speed on it.
But even then, I can find it tricky to listen to them all.
But there's certainly some there that I think I'll get hold of and have a listen to just to check them out.
Absolutely.
What I found interesting was that he was using Audacity to speed them up.
I use Sox and you just put in Sox, the input.
I don't know, MP3 and then output.org and then you type the word tempo and then two, for instance.
And that will speed it up twice, keeping maintaining the pitch and let's really fast.
I mean, that's two methods that I've not even thought about before.
I'm just using the actual media player to speed it up as it goes.
I have that now on my rockbox player when I forget to do it.
But I like to have all my shows sped up.
OK, then we had community news full of interesting topics.
It was nice actually to get the guys in from North East.
Now first.
Yeah.
Cool.
And the HQ HQ status as well was an issue at the time.
Still is.
Then we heard.
And they were putting submitting a sample of their show for us to experience.
Yeah, good.
I enjoyed that.
I enjoyed Andrew Conway's section on astronomy.
In fact, I wrote to him and said, but we're going to do some offer for HBO.
I noticed he's also done an article in Linux voice on.
Tracking comments with Python.
I think it is.
Very good.
So he's a one time real astronomer.
So it's good.
Excellent.
The thing about Tox Jam that used to drive me nuts was the mixture.
Because there's really good Linux talk.
And there's really good open source music.
Our open source music, when I'm going to say creative commons music.
But I listened to my creative commons music podcast obviously at speed one.
And my Linux podcast sped up to two.
So the only they really don't fit into my day then.
So now that I rock box, I can speed up the talky bits.
I probably shouldn't say that.
I can see your problem.
LibreOffice.
Calc cells.
Again, this he I really like the his approach to it.
This is about where he barges in actually.
Two and a.
But he deserve.
Sorry folks.
For those of you not listening.
Those of you knew.
Oga does a liberal office series.
He's up to 26 episodes and he's just submitted another wedge up on to the website.
And they are excellent.
He's just completed a very thorough introduction toward.
And he's now starting a very thorough introduction to liberal office calc.
These episodes could be given to any person at all.
And just have them sit down front of the computer and listen to this.
That is pretty much it.
My brother will be one candidate for this.
Where he had.
He was not a computer guy and as part of a course he needed to do some.
Some calculations in spreadsheets.
And this would have been a very useful thing for him to do because his lecture did not explain the concepts very well at all.
I was interested in the historical aspect of it.
This one that.
Who could did the.
No, it's the perfect biggest one.
Sorry.
Yeah.
But that's what I've thrown to the history.
But yeah.
Yeah.
But yeah, as you say.
Allegedly.
Approach to it.
Not rushing through it and dealing with everything in great detail.
It's something is great.
Something as simple as a one instead of one.
You know, you just caught somebody out there for four hours.
Why is it, you know, it's always a one.
It's never one.
You wanted to say something.
Well, yeah, no, I just really agreed with everything that you guys have said on it so far.
It's I really enjoyed listening to the writer and part of the series and was really quite interested when it moved on to.
I use count quite often.
So the first couple of episodes haven't been exceptionally useful because he's covering a lot of the basic stuff.
But in even then, I will still listen to the whole episode just to make sure I don't miss anything because of the detail and quality that goes into those episodes.
Yeah, I couldn't agree more.
Couldn't agree more.
Following day was Linux loadout episode 11.
We're into Rob Langley and this is this was one I put up under the heading that this is a podcast that people need to listen to if they're not already listening to.
And the interview was absolutely absolutely excellent.
He had some very, very good insights into the GPL and folks, little background, little word on the graphite don't don't be surprised if you don't hear more related to this episode.
Intriguing.
There you go.
Yeah, it was good to hear the loadouts on HPR.
I do have been following them, but it's good to hear them and hope that other people pick up as well.
Yeah, I listened to the loadouts as well and it was really good to see it get pulled out for the HPR crowd because as you write in the show notes, Ken, it was a really good episode to listen to.
And the interview was exceptionally interesting.
Yes, I was, I was not, you know, you hear quite a lot about the GPL and I've attended lectures from various different people about it.
And you don't hear the other side of the arguments very often.
And this was a nice, nice to hear the other people's opinions.
And matched with the experience of use as well, which was quite handy.
Sometimes when you get people talking about it, it can be a little theoretical, but then by matching it exactly to practice really brought home the issues that he was talking about.
Absolutely, absolutely.
And X1101.
Now though, if it's X, then that's X1101.
So it should be 1-1-0-1.
Okay.
Anyway, I think you referred to himself as X1101 so far.
Did his show with the patent as a technique of putting a microphone under somebody's nose and forcing them to do it?
Yes, love these.
I suspect we'll be hearing more from him in the future.
Yeah, enjoyed that.
I would like to hear more from him.
He's obviously a strong arch advocate.
I find quite intriguing myself.
Yeah, arch.
Yes.
I haven't gone down that route yet, but I might do.
I have done what I'll say about arch and Linux from scratch.
Arch is brilliant because it takes the pain out of Gen2.
And also the stuff that you learn is very useful because it's generic Linux as opposed to Gen2,
which tends to be more BSD type information you learn.
Boss, the problem I've had with the problem I've had with Gen2 and Linux for scratch
is the difficulty in installing stuff.
And the problem I've had with arch has been the difficulty in maintaining it.
It takes a lot more maintenance.
You need to be a lot more on the ball than you would be with other distros.
And if you've been paid to do a job and Linux is something that you're...
It's tolerated as long as you don't waste any time as a result of running it.
And then it's better, I think, in that situation to use something that's a little bit more controlled.
Yeah, yeah, I can understand that.
I have to admit, I'm sorry, go on.
Go on, Colin.
Okay, I was just about to say that I have to admit I've not used arch,
even though I did play with Gen2 a few years back.
And one of the reasons I haven't is probably because the extra amount of time in maintaining it
would just be too much for an overhead.
And all the arch users out there who are scratching your head out right now,
you know what you can do is either come on the community and you show them next month
and talk to us about it or record your own episodes and see if it's just just a quick or public radio.
I would be fascinated to hear that actually because I sat...
I made a new machine of a Christmas and sat for ages wondering what to put on it
and tried to say it several things.
I ended up with Debian testing, which I'm pretty happy with,
but I'd really like to know why I should have chosen arch.
So, yeah, bring them on, I say.
On a similar note, it would be interesting to hear of people's experiences of Linux from scratch as well.
Painful.
And this might prefer a long podcast, Ken.
The reason why the experience of Linux from scratch was painful was that I put my back out.
And this was a few years ago when I first started back issues.
And it has probably something for my how I got into a Linux episode,
but I ended up trying a whole group of distros on my laptop during that period
where I was off at home.
So, all the distros were painful.
But it's a very, very useful thing to do, very, very useful.
So, something I actually would like to do again.
Now that my ambient knowledge of Linux has improved, if you know what I mean.
Sure.
Ambient learning, the process of listening to a podcast, not knowing podcasts about a subject,
not knowing a lot about that subject, but letting it waft over it to you until you start picking up stuff.
I've just invented that term.
It's a bit worked, not 100% convinced.
Well, like I'm listening to quite a few of the ham radio podcasts
and with the view to learning, to becoming a ham radio operator.
And it, you know, this start off with lots of terms that you don't know,
but then after a while you hear so many interviews about the various different aspects
that you kind of pick it up.
Yeah, I am trying to, because I'm retired and got quite a lot of time in my hands,
I determined to learn a new, completely new discipline while in my retirement.
So, I started off on the road to virology because I have a degree in biology.
I thought, well, that would be something I could cover.
Always, is it hard?
It's really difficult.
What do I do?
What's virology?
The subject I'm interested in is in viruses of the kind that make you sick type.
Wow.
But it's really hard.
You need to understand biochemistry and molecular biology quite a lot.
And I do struggle, I have to say.
I hope this will not interfere with your work on HPR.
Of course it will.
All righty, all righty, all righty.
The next day Keith Murray with a What's up my pod catcher?
Gosh, does this guy listen to a lot of podcasts?
And a lot of interesting ones as well.
I just added a few today to my pod catcher.
He's also a trekkie, which is always a good thing.
Yeah, I liked the way he did his shows.
It was really really well put together and structured.
I thought it was good.
Show notes quite cool as well.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
So it's a good way to do that type of thing I think.
But yeah, I've also looked at his list and grabbed a few.
And I'm now up to 86.
Wow.
I'm just ridiculous.
What's the count of money I have?
I listen to more podcasts than you.
It's one of those competitions, no.
When it was all for home, I had a big back like a lug of them.
And now that I'm commuting, you know, in a half a day again,
I'm horsing through the mat, no end of, uh, no end of knots.
Okay, see prompt setting up a Raspberry Pi, Raspberry BMC.
Who was he talking to?
Oh, yes, friend Matt.
Going through the entire process.
And this is pretty cool.
It actually sounded very, very much like how any project goes with Linux.
You're going great guns.
It's far faster than you thought.
It couldn't be easier.
And then suddenly they're like, they're gone for two and a half hours.
And there's some stupid driver issue.
And then it turns out to be the powerist and all or something.
Yeah.
The stream of consciousness this was.
I loved it.
Go on, Colin.
Sorry, Dave.
We seem to keep clashing.
But it's, uh, it was interesting for me to listen to,
because I ran a Raspberry Pi media center,
but I'm using OpenElec.
So listening to someone else have to set it up from scratch
and have a bit more flexibility.
And it was quite interesting.
But let you say it again.
They did seem to fly along and then get caught up at one particular stage.
That's always, always nice to hear you don't let you.
Well, at least it's not me.
I also run OpenElec as well.
So simple and it works.
Sure does.
If you move to the BTN.
Yep.
Nope.
It's, uh, it's for the kids.
It runs.
I don't touch it.
Thank you very much.
Have a nice day.
Fair enough.
Fair enough.
Well, one thing I do want to do is put on, um,
Someday when I have time.
I want to put on the, uh, DVBT and the DVBS.
I have to USB, a DVBT antenna for Dutch terrestrial stuff,
which we never actually watch except, uh,
when Cintra, Cintra class comes in in, uh, October.
But that's also online as well.
So, um, yeah.
And we watch CBBs on the satellite.
So, um, I don't know.
Someday.
It's on the list.
It's well worth doing.
I've got, um, the terrestrial DVB on air one and it's, um,
it takes a little bit of getting used to to begin with.
But once you've got used to it,
it's, uh, kind of hard to switch back again.
On this, on your Razbeam C.
Um, no, it's on the open a leg.
Sorry on the open a leg.
Okay.
You're doing a show, Dave.
Magnus requested topics.
Excellent.
There's another one that I can add to it to the list of things
that I ought to be doing.
You see this?
You know, anybody who has problems coming up with stuff,
that's, uh, you think we would like to hear about.
Then, uh, just come and talk to me for five minutes.
Now, seriously, I want to do that because, uh,
I am running open a leg and I want to connect to exactly the same, uh,
services as you.
So cool.
Let's do this.
Yeah.
I'll look to, uh, put something together.
Cool.
Uh, HPR 1490.
HPR at NELF 2014 Part One.
And this is cool.
I like their, I like the, uh, the boot show things.
Now we're doing a great job of getting interviews there.
Yeah.
Awesome.
In competition with this one when they were in competition.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
I don't think they announced a winner, but it was really good to hear
going up against each other like that.
Yes.
Fantastic.
And, you know, it's, it's like, I'm, you know,
I'd love to be able to have their cash where I could just drive around,
do a flying ritual and pick up everybody and we'll all head off to these,
uh, to these shows, but, uh, you know, you have at least the feeling of what
the show felt like from the, from the corridors with these sort of shows.
So I personally like them.
The next day we had Landier, Dave help.
I put, I think it's Landier.
Sorry.
I said it.
Okay.
Part of the privacy and security, uh, the heartbeat vulnerability,
what it's very, very much in, uh, clear terms to us as to why, uh,
what it is and why it's important and why we should be scared and basically
the mess that was heartbeat, uh, couldn't have come at a better time.
Yeah.
Impressed that he can do that while driving home.
I don't know how he did it.
I, I don't have enough brain cells to, to talk about something as deep as that
as well as drive, but applaud anybody you can.
Absolutely.
I think it might be worth adding the link to the X, K, C, D, um,
cartoon on, uh, Heartbleed as well, because that, that's supplemented quite nicely.
Yes, actually.
And it's, uh, the corresponding license is approved or they use the similar
license.
Cool.
Yes.
Um, somebody, can you make a note of that column to email me about that?
Definitely.
Not from otherwise.
I'll listen to this episode and hear it on you.
But yes, uh, nice one point that you mentioned was about the why Heartbleed,
why your heartbeat was necessary when you had a TCP IP session, but I understood
that it could be to do with.
I would have thought of myself that a TCP IP session you would terminate with the,
with the delivery of the.
Uh, with the delivery of the packet and then later on, a new packet would be come in,
would be say your heartbeat packet will come in that would be a different TCP IP section
session.
So, uh, there you go.
But then again, on the other hand, I've heard other people say that, that,
that NOS would not be the case, but again, I would not be a SSL expert.
But this was a very embarrassing vulnerability for the, uh, for the open source
community and proves that you, while many eyes with many eyes,
any bug is shallow, but if there's only two eyes on it, four eyes in this case,
uh, it can be quite deep.
Okay, moving on with that depressing topic to something more light-hearted,
HBRNELF 2014 Part D, this time it's personal.
Um, we got a nice interview from a, uh, Paul.com security weekly,
which is, uh, would be a recommended podcast if a little bit immature by times
and bordering on the sexist.
At least raunchy.
Okay.
See, there was, there was a mumble chat with some guy called Ken Fallon on this one.
Yes, there was this, yes, there was.
Which was interesting and weird to hear, I must say.
Despite the fact I knew it was being recorded, but it was still weird.
Quite nice, it made it feel a bit more real.
Alright, the next gen is you, Tlatu.
Who did thought Tlatu was a gamer.
And he did two episodes on putting a steam machine together.
Uh, first episode was concentrating mostly on harder,
which is a useful episode regardless if you want to build your own computer.
And the second episode was more on the, uh, on the games and the types of controllers
and that sort of stuff as well.
Yes, definitely an interesting, uh, listen, um, completely agree with you Ken
in the fact that the first one going through the hardware was particularly useful
whether you were setting up a machine for steam or not.
But just understanding a bit more how the steam is going to go on the systems
and how you can go about setting up on that would be useful to be able to use
and play the games on with quite a hand in.
It was nice to hear Tlatu back.
I don't remember hearing him for a little while on HPR.
Yes, he's gone to New Zealand where the grass was green.
And he gets to work with Lennox all day.
And then we don't hear about from him.
No, I've heard, I've heard from him.
So I suspect he'll be around.
The thing actually with Tlatu is you don't hear him on HPR when we have enough shows.
And if you hear Tlatu, it means we don't have enough shows.
Simple.
Okay, that's a good parameter.
And that is not an excuse not to send in shows just because you want to hear more Tlatu.
And then open office calculations and formula bars.
Again, very useful explanation.
And one thing that I've noticed about open office coming from Excel is the way it has
of doing that click thing that you can click on another cell while it's very useful,
while it's very useful, full stop.
It makes transitioning between Microsoft Excel and Libra Office Calc quite frustrating.
Do you know what I'm talking about?
Absolutely, absolutely.
I work in both Excel and Calc a bit.
And yeah, that is one of the biggest differences actually in your day-to-day working
is setting up formula and grabbing other cells.
I think this is a great example actually of what you're saying before, Ken,
about how you can put it down in front of people again.
I know it's kind of saying the same thing to a degree.
But listening to this episode, I went back and opened up Calc just to double check
what the hooker was telling us and was sitting there going, oh yeah, I'd not noticed that before.
It's amazing, you say that actually because I wrote notes to my office saying
there's aspects here that are there in plain sight that I had never noticed.
I had not used those buttons that Hooker pointed out.
Partly, I think, because I'd come from other spreadsheets way back in time
where you didn't have that sort of fancy stuff you had to type it all into the cell.
So you just get into the habit of doing it that way.
But it was just so useful to have somebody saying, look, see that thing there.
That's what it does.
Oh yeah.
Absolutely.
Yeah, I can agree with you more.
And just by the by folks, if you think this is all text or if you think this is all audio,
there's a link on every one of these episodes to a complete blog post
with screenshots and worked out examples.
For example, in this, using parentheses, informalos about priority and nesting
and given...
What do you call a lot of priority?
I don't know what you...
When you do the formula and you want four multiplied by five, first, rather than...
You mean the old bold maths thing, brackets over division, multiplication, etc.
That thing, the ordering of evaluation.
Yes, ordering evaluation.
I don't know what you...
I don't know what...
What term, you're fishing for?
He used it in the thing...
All right.
Resolving ambiguity.
Order of operations, that's what I'm looking for.
The order of operations for the multiplication is first.
So two plus three multiplied by four.
Is it two plus three first?
And then multiply the five by four or is it three times four?
And then plus two.
But using parentheses helped that.
I think that's also another great example of the way who could run his introductions
and how he does his tutorials for beginners as well.
I mean, I work in an industry where maths is taken for granted.
And to be honest, sometimes, if I'm teaching someone,
I probably never have even thought to take them through that.
Yes, exactly.
And that's exactly it.
And that's what I was saying earlier with my brother, who's...
Don't get me wrong.
He's just not a computer guy.
He does some work with computers.
He works with big engines and big machines and designs them and makes them and stuff.
But the whole concept of a spreadsheet, the information he was given was just absolutely terrible.
Terrible. Terrible.
And I just wanted to say, go listen to this stuff.
You know, unfortunately, this wasn't available.
I would now just go listen to this stuff, read the article and, you know,
within four hours of nice relaxing and nice relaxing pace.
And at the end of it, you will understand exactly what it is.
And you'll be doing it properly.
You'll be, you know, using your sheets properly.
And I completely agree with you, Ken, about going to follow the links through
to where the tutorial was on a hookah site.
I've done it myself and it's certainly worthwhile going through and getting that extra detail.
Yeah, if you're listening along in the train or something,
it's definitely...
Have a little browse before or after, but don't just...
Don't just listen to the shows and not go.
Anyway, enough about that hookah.
He demands seconds being he's taken over HPR.
Whoa!
Anyway.
Not tall.
Wiki on the Raspberry Pi.
Mr. X who's also taken over HPR.
More...
Actually, all the better.
His guys can continue sending in shows and I'll be happy not to do more of Mone.
And this was setting up a Wiki and various different types of Wiki on the Raspberry Pi.
And I know lots of people are familiar with Media Wiki and other ones,
but these Ducuwikis and Wiki.
Are really cool small wikis that take the pain out of making tea really of a website.
They're just really nice, handy notes taking wikis.
And they can all...
A lot of them just save text files and you just put that integration,
you get versioning and controlling and you backups and stuff.
I'll stop waffling now and let Gito.
No, it was cool. I enjoyed that one.
I'm always looking for good ways of typing notes,
as I've said before, I have no memory these days.
So I write things down.
Media wikis great, but why is it heavy?
You know, they seem to be a lot more approachable.
Absolutely, yes.
And now they're actually quite cool.
I had a Ducuwiki in work for a while and we moved off that to something else,
but just little text files and very, very light.
Okay, so the next day we were only two more to go was practical math,
which is part of the series, practical math,
and is explained so much about the traditional English-based or imperial system.
And how to do the units and stuff.
What I found interesting actually was the history of what a furlong is
and how a furlong relates to a mile and all that chains,
one furlong, one chain, multiple furlong, multiple potentials and so on.
Yeah, I love that. The history was my favorite bit.
I actually really love that stuff.
I didn't know that.
When I was at school, I think I just missed having to do stuff
and rod pole perch and stuff.
Of course, a lot of the books we got given had all those measurements in.
You didn't cover rod pole and perch, actually, but chains and stuff.
Did you cover rods?
No, I thought so.
But yeah, yeah, it's amazing.
Well, you just cover rods, yeah.
I don't see poles in their purchase.
Yeah, there's so many of these weird things.
And yeah, I like the history of what furlongs are in relation to oxen,
pulling pliers and stuff.
Makes sense.
Very cool.
Moving on.
Personal open VPN, John Duarte.
Duarte, I think.
Thank you very much.
I'm traditionally butchering people's names.
First episode, brilliant episode, continue doing them.
I will be using this myself.
So I'm looking to put to one side in order to make sure I can make use of it
and actually follow it through properly.
Absolutely.
I'm doing lots of port forwarding at the minute, which is fine.
But at a certain point, yeah, kind of want to go.
Okay, I want to write all my traffic, including stuff on my phone,
which doesn't really support.
It's just more of a pain to enter in an SSH key.
Only this is a very good episode.
Okay, so that was that for the episodes for this month.
If I'm not mistaken, am I mistaken, Dave?
You are not.
No, that's it.
Super.
And without further ado, we will go and have a look at what's going on on the mail list.
And the best place to find out that is if you go to the Hacker Public Radio website
and you go to about and G main mail list archive, click on that,
and you will get a page which will give you an interface to the HPR mailing list,
including RSS feeds, which are out of date and not working for some reason.
I've mailed the guys about that over there, but seen as the volunteer service,
we should just allow them to, allow them to fix it in their own sweet time.
So a lot of traffic this month was with the responding to the something went wrong
with episode 1477.
And if you want to read that correspondence, have a little look on the website.
I don't really want to cover it here.
And some discussion about the community news and about the usefulness of it.
And then there was a discussion whether we should put a reserved slot in for the community news.
And I think we all agreed that yes, it was a community show.
So it should have a community, it should have a reserved slot.
If you are, if you want to be involved in that, you can come on to the show itself.
Then there was a discussion about the common system.
So this was an interesting discussion actually about the forums.
There are forums over on that bin rev, who's a stank, who's part of the Banyu Revolution project,
who funds HPR, who funds the servers that HPR runs on.
They have a forum over there and forum for every episode.
But we also have the common system that's on the HPR website.
So then there was discussion whether we should use the forums, whether we should use the common system,
or whether we should use discourse.
And I don't know if it was on the mailing list or not about the discussion
about whether to use proprietary software or not.
Was that on the mailing list or did that come to me directly?
I don't remember seeing it on the mailing list.
Okay, so it came to me directly.
Some people had more than one person had concerns about running it on a proprietary software
and running it on where accounts would have to be generated
and where IP addresses might be logged.
So that is something that is of interest to me.
And unabided by, I mentioned in the last show that there was an RSS feed for the comments section.
And as it turns out, I was wrong, not for the first time.
But I will rectify that.
And I think Dave and I were thinking about this, or at least I was,
and I was thinking that we could simplify the current comments section,
the current comments system, doing it ourselves.
Basically, there's a PHP library out there for sanitizing input.
And were we to do that and just put it into a table ourselves,
we could maintain the history of the old comments,
and basically switch over to this.
And then it would be similar to,
it would be similar to the way we post a show,
only that we're going to the comments section.
So I think that would probably be the easiest thing to do.
Thoughts?
I, yeah, quite like the idea of a homebrew comment system,
but I don't have much of a handle on how big a job it is,
but it's got nothing to do with anything, really.
I think I can do it as just a question of time,
but then it would be a question of time for any of the topics.
One thing that we did do was put the comments viewer,
make the comment viewer more visible.
So the comment viewer is now under the P,
and that's also under the about section show, show comments.
So the comment viewer, we can actually go through it now
about discussions that were held last month when was, whoops.
What month are we really supposed to be looking at for?
April, I think.
Yeah.
Okay, so DeepGeek said happy April to the, to the shows,
and...
Pokemon comments that to his show,
navigation that the updates they interface,
so he's going to need to do a new show,
and I reply going yes.
I also reply to the Jenna Bacon Assured Language Talk with Poké,
relating to Ubuntu is not equal to the only GUI,
with my criticism from last month's show that, and essentially,
you can read it if you wish.
Tony says, Tux Raider is now Linux Voice,
and that was in relation to a hooker,
what's on my podcast pair?
And I don't think we should criticize a hooker
because that show was in the reserve queue for a while, so.
And one major issue with Tux Jam 31,
episode 1484, was their misspelling of the word whiskey,
which, as everybody knows, is spelled with whiskey,
with an E-W-H-I-S-K-E-Y,
the only proper whiskey, which with an E.
Brother Mouse says, the mousepad,
in relation to what's on my podcast player,
he...
Oh yeah, he speeds up his show's 20%,
so that just sounds normal.
CT has a comment about Linux version,
in relation to coffee stains, studios,
and the sanctum games,
is that you can now install the beta version
of sanctum 2, and try it out, it works really well.
C-Prompt says, it's a good show to keep Murray
on what's on my podcast player.
Delta Raider says, there's a new desktop recording program
in relation to Tux Jam 31,
called Simple Screen Reader.
Philip Murray says, background music, he asks,
seekflop, what music she's playing,
in the background of Genesis Music Driver,
which was that 8-bit sort of stuff.
Borgu says, grid interview,
and this is in relation to Linux Logo Dights Episode 3,
and my barrel says, oops, misspoke,
and he just realized that towards the end of his episode,
this is something for Episode 15.03,
which hasn't been released yet, so that's okay.
Three, like Gnu says,
through comments about tattoos,
the next gen is you,
saying pcpartpicker.com is good
for exploring combos.
So more on that if you're around the show notes,
and anonymous says, the guy sounds like a teacher
if you should produce online videos
with relation to hooker, opera,
liberal office calc,
and I couldn't agree with him more.
So, the audiobook club had some requests for audiobook.
They've released, they have recorded,
Nathan Lowell's episode on the showman tale,
the showman,
and their new book is something.
I want to know that,
and I can't remember it, I will look out.
Calls the Crown Conspiracy,
which I've just finished reading,
and it's read by Nathan Lowell,
so it's also very good.
We had a call for help with some of the series,
an X1101, and Dave have started helping with that.
So basically that is an attempt to clear out the series,
clean them up,
and if there's only two,
one or two episodes in a series to take those,
the series name,
and put it in the series tag,
so they'll come up in a tag cloud as opposed to dedicated series.
So, what you know will be a series
will have an Icon next to it.
How does that sound, Dave?
Sounds great to me, absolutely.
So, we'll have a description
and an Icon next to us
will make it a series,
and anything else that doesn't is liable to be turned
into just a cloud, a cloud.
That's not to say if it becomes more popular,
it won't become a series in its own right.
The board align between tags
and series is a bit hazy in my mind,
but to work on that a bit.
I think what's in your toolkit,
what's in your podcast player,
these are series,
and then all those stuff isn't.
If it's a series, if you know what's a series.
That's the problem, yeah.
Exactly, yeah.
Now write some code to do that.
Thanks very much.
Call for shows.
We're always looking for shows.
If you look at the graph on the front of what,
if you go to give shows and then counter,
you will see a graph,
and it's like a saw going up and down and up and down.
And we like it going up and down,
varying between 15 and 10 days
to the next person in the queue.
That's kind of the ideal.
Getting down to five is a bit scary.
Going up above 15 is fine,
but you should then have the option
of spreading your shows out in another day
so that you still leave few free slots.
So we like the free slots around,
try and keep that around 10.
So that requires people to be sending in shows all the time.
And if you notice that there's a big lot of shows
that come in, spread your show out
so that you're filling up weeks into the future.
But we always need shows.
We use a lot of them.
260 shows a year.
290.
I don't know.
Can't do the maths in my head.
Somebody write some sort of logic for that.
So send in shows.
Right now we only have,
we have 10 days to the next show,
which by the time you're listening to that,
we'll be, we have nothing scheduled after this show.
So if you're listening to this show,
we just better hope that people have sent in shows.
So send in shows are with.
So other items on the news.
Kevin sent a link to a free software song.
Masha, which was quite hilarious,
I must say, and probably the,
also violated copyright on the whole goal
for the other shows.
But have a listen to it.
It's brilliant.
HB Audubic Club.
Yes, we've spoken about that.
And then I put in outer request for people
who are interested in doing a ham radio podcast
to get in touch.
People are around the topics explaining
the electromagnetic spectrum to me.
And some people have contacted me directly
with very good explanations.
It's becoming clear,
but it's not 100% clear to me.
And we had an email from our very good friend,
Citi, who has been,
who was official press
up at the
Retro Spielmassen,
the Retro Games Convention.
So very, very happy to hear that.
Our man in Sweden, as we like to say.
And, oh, there was an email from me.
We did Dave and I.
We took it upon ourselves to tidy up
the database quite a bit.
So quite a lot of people
who have not contributed shows
who were hosts have been
taken out of the database, essentially.
And we've done some other clean-ups.
I've added on the,
I've added icons.
So if you have on your host page,
so if you go about and hosts,
you see that there are icons coming in.
That's nothing new that's been there for a while.
So if you've had a gravatar icon,
which is a website out on the internet,
I believe it's related to WordPress.
And if you have an email there,
it sends over a hash of your email address.
And then if it's got an email,
it sends back the icon associated with that hash.
So it's quite good privacy.
One thing that concerned me a little bit
about the privacy of it was that
if somebody goes to that page in the website,
then gravatar would know
that all these calls are coming
so that they would know that you're coming
from Hacker Public Radio.
So I was a bit concerned about that.
So now I put in a script
to download the icons once in a hour,
locally to the server on HPR
and they're served from there.
So if you change a gravatar icon,
it would take up to 60 minutes
for that to propagate.
Mixed?
Fantastic.
Very good.
And if you do not want to use gravatar,
you can simply email a PNG
or AT by AT to me
and I will add it manually to the false server.
Also, I would appreciate it.
If people would send in a biospeel,
this is not intended to be a website.
It's just intended to be a few lines
about who you are,
what your interests are,
and short snopsies.
Basically, I have,
I'm an Irishman living in the Netherlands.
I probably could give it a little bit more.
Something like your website, Twitter,
or identica, Facebook, Google,
Plus LinkedIn,
or whatever your email address,
your public key, probably.
I don't know, really,
it's supposed to be a kickoff page
where people can get more information about you.
It's not going to be your blog,
but it's going to be a link to your blog.
It's the elevator page of who you are,
and we can put that on here.
There are, especially,
if you've got PGP set up,
I'm interested in you putting in your PGP
because I've been discussing this
with some members of the community
community about how we could use PGP
to have you edit these pages
on the website without having to authenticate
or whatever,
use PGP is the authentication mechanism.
But this would be kind of cool.
The small sentence blur
will be put out at the,
in the episode,
so on the RSS feed,
and on the website,
it should have your photo
and host ID,
and then, you know,
something like today's episode
is brought to you by Ken Fallon.
And then, you know,
brackets are, you know,
emphasized text.
Ken is an Irishman living in the Netherlands,
he's a father of blah,
and blah, and blah, and blah, and blah,
and is interested in blah, and blah, and blah, and blah.
That's the rest of the stuff.
What do you think?
I like the sound of it.
Yeah.
Certainly, Hansa,
a bit more of a,
kind of personal touch to
what's going on, I guess,
in a structured way.
Yeah, I don't want it to be
Google plusier Facebooky.
I want it to be people
have control over it.
So there's a small little thing
that you say,
that you decide what it is,
and you put it up,
and you choose not to,
then nothing comes up.
That's absolutely fine.
And that it goes to your website,
so that's...
And if you, that website,
happens to be your thing,
and Google plus,
it's fine by me,
but you're making the decision.
Plus, that's a little bit of color
to the websites when you browse down.
It seems like, you know,
it's...
Right now, I'm looking at how we're getting
to computers with...
Charles and NJ,
and it looks, you know, it's kind of nice
having a little picture of the person
there.
And that is all I have to say
about that.
Anyone else?
Nothing more from me, I think,
other than, thanks for having me on
for the community news.
It's been good to be here.
Thanks for having me on.
As this is a community show,
anybody can come on at all.
People...
You must understand this.
I don't want to do this show.
You have to come on and do it.
And if it's...
If there's a few guys in the US
who want to do it in a lot of time,
that's okay as well.
It doesn't have to be me.
Dave has written a...
Dave has done a lot of stuff
from the last month.
I'm really, really...
Thanks very much, Dave.
Really helped me out
with some of the database stuff as well.
And a lot of things
that have been bugging me
for a long period of time
have been resolved,
except the multiple-host thing
which we're working on.
I have proposed a very elegant
efficient solution
and Dave has slapped me
in the face saying,
no, it's crap.
But I will...
For a severe...
Yep, yep.
You're elegant.
I'll have to do it.
We have to do an HBR on that, actually,
and have a wee discussion
around Table Discussion about
the delights of
doing proper map tables
to join many to many tables
together versus
a sort of pudding of stuff
that you fish around
and with a stick,
right, Dave.
Yes, I'm not going to recute
you replicating me.
No, I'm not going to.
I'm not going to...
No, I'm not going to.
There are only two replicating
the entire database, Salah.
And it is.
Anyways.
This is my life, it's been an eye-opener this month about how database is work, so pretty
cool.
But actually, we've done some other stuff like tidying up the episode, some of the other
long standing things, but no.
You probably won't even notice some of the changes that we've gone on, but I do.
All right.
There's still a bunch to be worked on, but it's been fun, I've had fun this past
on.
Yes, one thing that I did do was on the complete episode guide.
We have put in now the short, one-line summary.
It's in there.
Before this, there was a time when we had the entire show notes for everything, and they
took an hour and a half to render.
Now we just put in the episode title and the host, and when it was hosted.
And now we're also putting in the short synopsis of what it is.
And yes, I wanted to talk to you about this.
Folks, I need your help.
I want volunteers to go back and listen to old shows, and I want to split it up so that
somebody listens to show X to Y and somebody else's listens to show A to Z. That's a bad
example.
Listen to shows 1 to 20, somebody listens to 20 to 40 to 60.
Yeah, so that we can take chunks and write this synopsis and get some keywords out of
it.
And do show notes where there are no show notes.
That sort of thing.
Basic tidy up.
We've got lots and lots of stuff that is not out of date.
That people are not aware of loads of stuff on SSH that I still go back to, and you can't
find the episode because there's no show notes there, or there's no synopsis, or we basically
need people to volunteer to do that.
And for a limited time only, you can avoid your one-show-year thing by contributing to
that effort.
And you might even get a sticker.
Okay.
Anything else, folks?
Hello?
No, nothing here.
Nothing here.
Sorry, I was just dealing with my cat who is determined to come and join in this podcast.
It's a polaroid, or from Tyke, yeah.
She's bored.
My daughter's away at the moment, and she plays with them more than I do, so she's saying,
I'm bored.
Wait with me.
It's the way of having pets.
Okay, guys.
I'm going to go and say hello to my wife, and do other stuff.
Colin, do you have something to say?
No, nothing more for me.
Okay.
Colin, do you want to start off the free software song, and we can play a sad?
Um, if I have to, I'm going to snow at you.
The software will be free, hackers, you'll be free.
Okay, folks, tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker, UpLick, Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, where Hacker Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on Deathly Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicom Computer
Club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are proudly sponsored
by Luna Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LunaPages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons, attribution, share
a life, lead us our lives.
