Episode: 1340
Title: HPR1340: Out and about at OHM 2013
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1340/hpr1340.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 23:54:29

---

hypothesis 2
m
m
m
m
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to Hack of Public Radio.
This is day one for me at Observe HackMate 2013 and the very first tent that I came across
is a lockpick tent, surely this is the legal.
No, no, I spoke to the legal in most states and most countries.
Okay, and your name is?
My name's Nigel.
I Nigel, so you're having a good day?
Not bad, it's very warm.
It is a bit hot, but that's probably no harm.
So I'm just looking at the tent here and on one side you've got a shop on the other side,
you've got a big lung rope tables and you've got people there trying to pick locks, I imagine.
Mostly, yeah, some with more success than others.
We've got everyone from like some little kids down there who are probably about six or seven
right the way up to people who are at 60 or 70 probably, not quite that old in here
at the moment.
So are you a lock smith by trade or?
Yes, now.
Okay, and what made you, why do you think lockpicking is such a hacking thing to do?
People love it, it's an intellectual challenge, all the different ventures of security that
are around, so many of them are so poor, we sort of show the base principle and then people
work out from themselves.
I often found it very interesting, you know, you're going to a data center and we've got
the wing skills and the one turn style and then all the racks are locked with the same
del key that...
Yeah, yesterday the Fox IT crowd, they used Abloy, Protek, very high in lock and we were
talking about it and it said not like a fridge though and they looked, it's like, oh yeah,
and hand-pasted.
Yeah, Nigel can pick that in 15 seconds.
Yeah, can you?
Yeah, I picked it to lock so then they can open the fridge and it took rather long to unlock
it again.
So where do you start, how would I, how I go about, you know, getting an interest of
in locks and, you know, what do you begin, what do you say to new people coming over here?
Well, it's pretty hands on so you can read stuff about it online and do but it's a lot
more difficult to sort of conceptualize what's going on without locking your hand and make
it easy for beginners.
We've got some trick locks so they start with everything from literally one pin right
the way up to 15.
Can you explain kind of one-on-one what how lock works and then how you pick it?
Basically, a lock.
If you imagine you had a bolted door, if you opened the first bolt then the second bolt,
then the third bolt until the door opens.
You're kind of doing that with a lock, except you can open the bolt too far.
Right, okay.
Basically, you move whatever is in the way out the way and eventually when she's moved
everything is in the way out the way correctly, it opens.
So what would be correct in saying you would typically have four cylinders and then in
those cylinders there are two pins of varying heights, what a spring underneath.
You could have essentially any number.
You start with on a door, you would generally have four or more, anything high security
these days has at least six.
And yeah, each pin, that's number of pinstacks.
Each pinstack is one or two or more pins driven by a spring.
So when the key comes in, it moves that pinstack up and down.
And basically you're trying to find the line in the middle called the shear line, which
is where the two parts can move apart.
If you go too high, the bottom pin will block it and if you go too low, the top pin blocks
it.
And when there's no key in there, it's always far too low, so blocks are completely.
Okay, so how would I begin?
A hairpin.
We've got locks and tools and people to teach you.
So if people want to come to lock picking village, come and have a go.
Yeah, it seems like an excellent thing to do.
You know in the movies, people use hair pins and stuff, has that ever happened?
Hair pins aren't very good, they're not that strong and you have to beat them in the
hammer to get them flat and stuff.
But if it's a windscreen watch applied, they work really well.
Okay, good to know.
Okay, well, thanks very much, I might try this now.
And tune in later on for another report from OHM2013.
Hi everybody.
Yes, I'm an attend here at OHM2013 with...
Yoam, Iquitos.
And Stitch.
Hi, how are you doing?
I'm very well for the weather and the insane shit we're doing here.
Yes, right, just to give people some context, we're in a field.
The field is surrounded by trees.
There are loads and loads of camp tents and event tents of every sort.
We're in a scaffold tower, who built this?
The build is from the Rainbow Island crew and a lot of volunteers from OHM2013.
This is supposed to be and will look like a castle tonight.
We have four big scaffold towers where you can sit inside and play games.
We've got a large living room, an arcade with pinball machine, pinball machines and a retro
gaming tent.
Tell us about that.
Well, the arcade was most interesting because logistic nightmarish and everything.
We've got five pinball machines set up and six arcade cabinets, including an original
asteroids and a Neo Geo machine.
We've got five pinball machines, including one that uses compressor for flippers and
has completely been revised.
Everything electronically inside has been stripped and replaced with PLCs and other mechanics
that are more of this age.
Okay, so you updated it from what it was originally to what it is now?
Yeah, it was a school project from another team and they changed it from an original arcade
defender machine to something that is technically far more superior and more beautiful and they
engineered all themselves and they wanted to do this, they wanted to display it here so
it's here right now and we just found a compressor so from tonight you'll be able to play it.
So it needs compressed air in order to operate?
Exactly.
Why?
Because they can.
Excellent answer, excellent answer.
So Rainbow Island, why is it called Rainbow Island?
Well, we started with a name Lesher Island and the problem with that is that it changes
to Pleasure Island and that has a connotation with brothels and prostitution.
So we didn't really want to promote that on OHM and it would change the name to Rainbow
Island from the game Rainbow Island and it is much more inspiring name also because
it allows us to use colors in a black and white team because OHM has a black and white
team.
So during the day all the scaffolding towers are wrapped in white plastic wrap and all
the fences are also white and in the night we're using about 40 to 60 projectors to make
the entire castle look like an ocean of colored lights and games and sort of a game haven.
Bit like the if it's seen as well.
I don't know, I've never seen such a project before, at least not on this scale.
So it feels like a first and it's very special in that regard and especially on the Hacker
Congress where production like these will rarely happen and this is the first time such
a thing just for entertainment and relaxation is scheduled on the Hacker Congress in the
Netherlands.
Okay, cool.
How many of these have you been on?
This is a how much?
20 event numbers, 20 or something, for the awesome retro crew and the people that do the
retro gaming, it's event number 20.
We did the first big one in Germany, CCC 2011 and it was an instant hit and it was really
great.
So here we are again.
And I've been joined by?
Yup, yeah.
Hi, how are you doing?
Fine, thank you.
And what have you done for the event?
We're co-conspirators in the whole concept, it was stitches idea but we had biweekly
meetings to give it form and brainstorm on the concept and adding ideas and see what's
feasible and what's not.
And it's been a grown process for six months, something like that.
And it's something that grew from a little seat, little idea, that stitch hat, that it had
to be awesome and made it awesome.
So I'm just going to mosey around here and have a look over at the other side.
So I'm standing here in one of the corner tents and then we're surrounded by a mose anyway
because there's...
You have to have a mose.
You have to have a mose.
It's a fake in Ireland.
It's going to be a castle.
So you're going to have to have a mose.
So one, two, three and presumably four towers.
And inside of that is all sorts of tents.
We got the retro gaming tent.
What else?
The tower on the right here is the Komodor 64 and Amiga tent.
And it has Amiga 500, et cetera, over there.
When you walk this to our direction, it's the south sides on the right.
You pass the retro gaming tent and some party tents for tonight.
And it's where we are.
You have an eight-player console and tonight we're going to do a brainwave screen saver thing.
Somebody brought a brainwave analysis device and we can connect this to a projector.
So you can visualize your brainwaves and you can see how other brainwaves...
I know a lot of people are going to be rewinding that.
That is a brainwave analysis thing and you're going to do a screen saver based on that.
Yeah, yeah.
Somebody built a screen saver based on that.
And it will operate tonight and it will be linked to other brainwaves in the world,
over the world.
And there's someone from Brazil that made the device.
And he will also join so you can see the brainwave from someone from Brazil also.
So he made all of it.
So at the same time, and it makes a screen saver from this with a lot of color and beautiful
thing.
And the nice thing is that for everyone, it looks different because everyone has different
thinking patterns and different brain structure.
So that's going to be really interesting.
I imagine mine would be very well Dolan Bory, kind of a flatline.
Who paid for all this stuff?
You?
Yeah.
Thanks very much.
Thanks.
Well, we got a very small budget and we stretched it to the max.
Yeah.
And we stretched it.
And we stretched it.
And we stretched it some more.
We went, we were very tactical buyers.
Yeah.
There's one thing that is really, really important that all the retro gaming and all
the content is mostly donated by everyone that lost what we're doing.
Yeah.
We're doing this for years now.
So people just give stuff and say, you can do this and you can use this more than we
do.
And then it's a fierce year.
So we brought the entire truck of everything we could bring to here just because to say,
hi.
Thank you.
So if you're into gaming and too late this event is over, but yeah, that was your own fault.
And you are a crocodile?
Yeah.
I'm a crocodile.
Yes.
With the beer bottle under me.
Yeah.
And then the security of the event.
Okay.
That's great.
You know, you've been in the mold earlier, I saw.
Yeah.
So nobody goes swimming here.
It's not because it's not allowed.
Oh, that is actually a bummer.
So what's a, what's a, they wouldn't hang in the middle here for?
Let's walk around.
First the entrance gate.
Yeah.
On the left.
Oh, it's the wind.
Oh, yeah.
Put it on my wind condom.
Push.
First, you see the entrance gate with the designed flag by Yop.
Yeah.
And we've got on every tower.
There are six towers here.
Yeah.
Two smaller ones.
There's a flagpole with a flag.
Very wide.
Yeah.
So Megalomania plus plus.
Uh-huh.
If you walk further, you see the, the rounds thing.
It's supposed to be a container for connects and other toys, but they haven't arrived yet.
Oh, bummer.
Maybe, maybe it will and somebody will fix it with a carpet knife and the details will stand.
If you continue walking and then you see the tower on the, on the, on the other side here.
Um, it has, it is designated for ponies and, uh, brones.
Looking at needle behind me.
Yeah.
He supplied some of the stuff over there and some paintings.
And, uh, they also, uh, had, uh, installed a homebrew console over there.
It's cool.
Yeah.
It's called, um, their Shelby Lansing.
And it's a game for the PC, I guess.
It works on Xbox controllers.
Uh, I haven't played it yet because they set it up last night.
Uh, well, I'm not that awake.
Yeah.
That long awake yet, but I'll try it.
It's a, they had a lot of positive reviews I heard.
So, um, yeah, it's good to have it here.
Um, yeah.
And the big point.
Yeah.
Then, then you arrive at the arcade.
And the arcade, uh, well, you can go before.
Yeah, it has, you need to put in coins.
No, no, no, it's all free to play, of course.
And it has, uh, the, the, the angiace buck, the duck, uh, the duck, uh, the dog.
Yeah, it has a duck in water.
And with, uh, fans.
And you can control the fans over the internet.
So the duck can move through a maze.
Oh, that's brilliant.
And, uh, there's also enormous video wall that arrived.
And it's about five meters wide by too high.
And, uh, with some luck, it will operate.
And otherwise, it just is to troll the logistics people because it's huge.
I troll ourselves in the end because it's the store it's somewhere.
And we have a Lego pool.
There's a play pool supposed to be filled with Lego.
When it's going to arrive, but the idea was that there's a big donation of Lego blocks.
And we made a little swimming pool out of it.
There are a lot of kids around.
Yeah, there's kids storage, but I think we are the kids storage now.
Yes.
I'm beginning to suspect that. So what time does this start?
Well, it's open for business, but it looks a little disordered here because the game is not functioning.
And it's not late at night, so it's just laid back.
It's far too hard to do anything right now.
So I don't suppose it's...
You only see people like...
Yes.
You know, waiting until it's up to you.
There's another great setup that's over there next to the arcade.
It's paintball gun with a randomizer.
And it fires on 6666.
And you see...
Okay.
Yeah, it can fire.
And every second or so, the code changes.
So you might be fired if people walk over there.
It might hurt.
Okay.
More is...
There's another tower on the far left north side.
I see a quadcopter in the air.
Okay.
That's just...
They're coming to observe you guys.
And that's the temporary storage for the Kray 1.
Yes.
Someone is building a Kray 1 bench.
And he's put a lot of effort in it already.
He made 600 parts of plywood and everything just to...
Oh, he's here, the guy.
And they're going to work on it and people are just randomly volunteering to help him.
It looks...
It's really professional.
This guy really knows what he's doing.
So at the end of the event, probably we will have a Kray 1 bench look alike,
made from plywood and everything.
No, what a Kray 1 is.
A Kray 1 is the iconic surfer model.
If you use...
Fisio, Microsoft Fisio, if you are really out there.
Then if you want to place a surfer, you place a sort of bench-like structure.
And that is a Kray 1.
And this Kray 1 will be rebuilt over here.
It's sort of like the Xbox One, but better.
Yes.
Excellent, excellent, excellent stuff.
Anything else, anyone wants to add?
Or should you be all busy setting stuff up?
How was this?
You put up all the towers, right?
Yeah.
How was the help?
What did you get from everyone?
Well, mostly the towers were built by the building crew,
which delivers the tents, et cetera.
A lot of volunteers came to help build the towers, climbing in them.
The towers are covered with white tarps.
That's all done by volunteers.
People just come here and say, can I help?
And I ask, do you feel afraid of heights?
No, okay.
Come with me in the tower.
And this you would answer.
People just come here and help, and it's awesome.
It's a lot of work.
It still needs to be done, but...
Well, you're better hurry up.
The most of it is done.
Yes, the arcade guy.
Hi, how are you doing?
Hi.
I'm Bren.
What are you doing?
You're building an arcade, I heard.
Well, yeah.
I tried to keep the arcade machines running,
the PIMO machine running.
Yeah.
Because in a few days it'll be more than a thousandth place
on mostly each of them.
So stuff breaks down and it needs to be fixed.
So what's the type of machines that we got?
A few PIMO machines.
All the generation at Solid State and a few of the metrics.
Like Adam Samley, Getaway, Cool Stuff, Simpsons.
And we also got like six or so old arcade machines.
Like one asteroid, which is a really cool old one obviously.
But also some homemade arcades.
So it's an arcade cabinet that actually inside it.
It's like a main simulated arcade machine.
Okay, machine should have like 60 games in one arcade.
Cool stuff.
Okay, guys.
Well, thanks very much for the interviews.
All the best.
And I'll be around tonight to actually participate.
You love it.
Alright, talk to you later.
Hi, everybody.
We were talking earlier about a Kray 1.
And I'm here with...
Jeff, a Kampuan Kare.
Hi, Jeff.
You're the guy who's actually building a Kray 1.
Well, the Kray 1 was one of the first super-computers
with the metrics.
I suppose so.
I'm not sure it was one of the first super-computers,
but it was at least with a very nice design.
It's like a...
Like...
How would you describe the design?
What probably would be best?
Well, it's a three-quarter donut.
And the reason is the three-quarter donut is because the inside of a donut
has a shorter way for cables.
Yeah.
And that's why they designed it in this special way.
So they can put the high-speed lanes on the inside of the super-computer
and slow things like power and cooling went on the outside,
longer distance side of the donut.
It's...
To me, it always looked like something that a park bench around the tree
would be kind of...
What do you...
Yeah, it would look like that, but without the tree.
Yeah, exactly.
The tree part...
So the computer part was actually on the inside?
Or...
The processing side was on the inside.
So they had the short distances between the boards.
And as I said, the power equipment and the cooling unit,
tubes with flow,
would be set on the outside of the donut.
Oh, okay.
Did you ever use one of these things?
No, I think I'm too young for that.
Okay, yeah.
And so, why...
Why are you building one?
Someone just mentioned it on IRC
that I wanted to have this built that they were still looking for someone.
And I took a look at it.
And it's...
An interesting design to try to replicate.
Because of the shape,
and also they want to move it afterwards.
They don't want to destroy it.
So it had to be built in a reusable way.
And then you have to use some tricks.
So this design will be built off
a 14 different part, actually.
Yeah.
Or 14 segments, I'll put it that way.
They can be taken apart so they can move it to somewhere else,
make some additional features to it.
Yeah.
And it had to be lightweight.
Yeah.
Because you have to carry it and it had to be within budgets.
Yes.
So...
How much is the budget?
For the woods, it's about 300 euros.
Okay.
And you've got a whole go of MDF caught up underneath.
Yeah.
So we know that I ended up with about 600 parts of woods.
Oh my god.
That's cut to size.
And now we still have to screw and glue it together.
And hopefully...
It'll all fit.
Well, I made some errors,
so we have to make some adjustments on the way.
But in end, I hope we'll have a three-quarter circle
that looks like you create one.
What could possibly go wrong?
Which woods?
You can accidentally saw into a table.
That's not yours.
Break a drill with us, you're assistant to show us.
Break a drill bit.
The best part is that you cut pieces too long.
And as far as I remember, I have a few pieces I've cut too long.
So that's okay.
I can shorten them.
And yet there are always some getting errors.
And you're just making out the template now.
Yeah, there's a template.
So we can put the parts in it.
It's a template for the side panels.
Yep.
For left and right side panels.
So we can reproduce 12 left panels and 12 right panels in an easy way.
Are you a carpenter by trade?
No.
I'm not a carpenter by trade.
No.
It's something to take your mind of technical things.
Yes.
Although, if you're thinking of creating one super computer,
C's is probably not that far from technical things.
It's another challenge.
Did you do drawings for yourself?
Or did you find download them free from maintenance?
Well, I didn't really find a lot of detailed drawings.
Just the basic measurements.
And I went from that to draw the plans on it.
Okay. Well, thanks very much for your time.
Hi, everybody.
I'm right beside the OHM 2013 sign.
And I came across Bruchon, which has the tagline hacking for beer.
Of course, I had to come in interview.
Your name is?
My name is Kuhn.
How are you doing?
Fine. How are you?
I am not too bad.
What is Bruchon?
Am I here?
Well, Bruchon is a button security conference.
We are having a conference every year.
And now, since last year, it's going on in Ghent.
A very nice belt-on-town.
Yes.
That was...
You were mentioned on the Paul.com security weekly podcast.
They were over for that, was that correct?
Yes, that's right.
But then we were still in Brussels.
But this is the same conference.
Same nice atmosphere.
And it's going to be in Ghent, or it has been in Ghent.
It has been, it's also going to be in Ghent again.
Okay.
When is the next time?
So, the next one is the end of September, 26th and 27th is a conference.
And right before the conference, we have our security trainings.
Okay. And what would you like to...
What's likely to be covered there in the trainings?
Yeah.
Well, we have several for a lot of penetration testing.
So we have offensive techniques, some oil penetration testing,
SCADA, those things are all covered.
And would this be more aimed at the European security saner?
Would this be international to be international?
To be international.
Okay.
And do people come from all over the world?
Or is it mostly European?
Quite hot.
Yeah, it's very mixed.
We have a lot of Europeans, of course.
But also a lot of Americans coming by.
Oh, yeah.
It's quite mixed.
Okay. And what's your setup here?
What are you planning on doing today?
Today we here to promote our conference.
We're just here enjoying the Ome sphere.
It's very nice here.
Yeah.
And is this conference a professional thing that you do at your full-time job?
No, absolutely not.
It's completely run by volunteers.
Yeah.
We just enjoy working for improving the community,
giving something to the people in Belgium,
because the only security conference in Belgium going out.
Okay.
And that's why we like to organize it.
And with sponsoring this event, we like to give something back to the community.
Okay.
And how much is the event to go to?
There, I hope you can get out.
Okay.
It is not free.
Let us know.
So, while we're waiting for that, looking around the tent,
I see soldering irons and beer.
What could possibly go around?
Yeah.
So, a normal ticket to Bruch on these 160 euros.
Okay.
That includes food with the conference.
Okay.
That's not too bad.
Expansible, I presume, if you're in the trade.
Yeah.
And what sort of trainings are you going to be doing ahead of that?
So, yeah, it's a mix-up.
It's a offensive techniques,
Roschede in three days,
pen testing, smart credence, Skeda.
Lessons of mobile penetration testing,
the art of exploits injection flows,
hacking PDFs, always, always fun,
practical malware analysis.
And that's from the 13th,
sorry, 23rd, 24th, 25th of September,
in Kent.
Cool.
Thank you very much.
No problem.
You enjoyed the rest of the show.
Hi, everybody.
My name is Kent Tham.
And you're listening to another excerpt from OHM 2013.
And I mean, they learn to solder.
Actually, it's a blink-and-area tent.
And we offer an all-day soldering workshop
for everyone who wants to come and learn to solder
or improve their soldering skills they may already have.
And your name is?
And my name is Arno Rosios.
Nice to meet you.
Now, as many of you know,
soldering has been covered before by Mr. X
in an excellent series on HPR.
Right now, I'm sitting here in front of a soldering arm.
What do I need to do?
Yeah, first, you need to have a project you can solder.
We have loads of projects, raspberry pie projects.
And I have loads of things that I want to solder.
I've got the plans, got all the kids,
but I have no idea how to do the actual soldering part.
Okay, so there are basically two kinds of soldering.
Yeah.
The older technology, through-hole technology,
whether components have leads,
which you put through holes in your circuit board.
Yeah.
And then you solder them from the other side, usually.
Okay.
And the newer technology, it's called Surface Mount Technology,
SMT, SMD for Surface Mount Devices,
which is the SMD parts.
And those are just put on the board on one side
and soldered from the same side,
so they don't need holes.
And if you want a very dense board,
you can put them on both sides.
Oh, okay.
Cool.
So, say I wanted to just put a resistor onto a PCB,
a straight tube, how would it go about doing that?
If you wanted to solder through-hole resistor,
you just bend the leads so they can fit the holes.
Yeah.
Then you put it through the holes,
and then you take your soldering iron
with a medium-sized tip.
Yeah.
Put it next to the lead,
which is coming out of the hole.
Yeah.
So it touches both the lead and the ring around the hole.
Yeah.
So both warm up.
Then you add a little piece of soldering wire.
Yeah.
And it flows around the pin,
and then you can remove the tip,
and it's finished.
Do you have something that I can solder here,
or kind of a indicator?
You can buy a kit.
Yeah.
What have we got?
We have...
Don't worry about it.
We have kits hanging on the wall.
And you can just choose one.
Let me see.
What have we got?
We got an 8-lead LED.
That does what?
What did they do?
Which one?
What did they do?
The more simple ones on the left side
are just flashing their LEDs in several patterns.
Yeah.
So they're just for show,
and the bigger ones for the more experienced solderers.
They can be programmed with all sorts of animations.
We have one which can do colour.
They can all do grey scales.
So the coloured one can do 512 different colours.
Oh, cool.
And the largest one has 520 pixels,
but only one colour.
Okay.
And so, say you want that in case,
what would you need to do to solder it up?
Yeah.
What do you need to do to actually solder two components together?
You have something there that you can show.
Usually you don't.
So the two components together,
but you get a circuit board in the kit,
or if you have your own project,
you can have a circuit board made,
or you can use a perth board,
which has holes in it everywhere.
And you just put the components wherever you like,
and use uncoated wire to connect the parts.
Okay.
Can I get a hardship one and start with that?
Yeah, sure.
That's a good beginner kit.
You want the through hole one,
or the small SMD one?
Oh, the through hole one.
Yeah.
Let's do it on the edge, shall we?
Okay.
Okay.
Oh, that's a bit some pieces.
Everything inside you need,
including an instruction sheet.
Okay.
We'll have a first instruction piece.
Okay.
In the case, I've got a PCB.
With some LEDs,
a power supply and a chip.
So, do I need to read this,
or can you tell me?
I can tell you some things.
Okay.
But open it anyway, so I can show you.
Okay.
And I've got a heart shape.
And you need a sawring iron,
which is already on.
On?
You can use this one?
Yes, on.
Oh!
Yes, it is.
Yes.
Okay.
And I've got a PCB,
a controller, presumably that's this chip,
like here.
No, this is the socket, actually.
This is the controller.
With the pins bent.
Is that better?
No, you can usually just bend them back,
and it puts not too bad.
Okay.
Got some LEDs,
some resistors,
a power supply,
and okay, this is going to make great audio.
Anyway.
Okay.
We're to begin.
Yeah, and the instructions usually have the order,
in which you should solder the parts.
So in this case, you would start with the resistors.
It has some general soldering advice first.
If you're new to soldering,
and you don't have a teacher around,
you can read how to do it in the instruction sheet.
Okay.
So, and then it starts with the parts.
Resistors first, then the IC socket,
then the push button, and so on.
Let's start with the resistor.
Shall we?
Okay.
Tell me what to do.
Resistor looks like this.
Yeah.
The one with all the colored bands around it.
Does matter which one already on the same?
They are all the same.
Okay.
And they've got different colors.
Okay.
Show me what to do first.
Okay.
First, you bend the leads,
so they can fit the holes,
which is done like this.
Should look like this.
Should look like this.
I don't know if they're disclosed enough,
but yeah, you have to,
for this case,
you have to bend them really close to the resistors.
So, I usually hold them like this.
Yeah.
And then you can just bend it.
Okay.
And when he says holes like this,
he holds the resistor,
and then pushes it down.
So, I straighten up the leg,
and I try and push it as close
to the thing as possible.
Okay.
So, it's not bent.
So.
Now, you're new to...
To sickle.
Yeah.
On the other side,
you can see it has some text on the board here,
which appears in the instructions too.
Okay.
Now, you're holding it the right way up.
Okay.
And then you can have a look at the image
where the resistors go.
Um...
Turn...
Turn...
That looks about right.
Okay.
I'm still going to make a mess of this.
Okay.
Yes.
So, correct.
Yeah, this is correct.
Okay.
Turn it over.
Yeah, you can turn it over,
but if the resistor will fall out,
you can just bend the lead slightly outward.
And...
So, that they don't fall straight up.
Yeah.
So, it can't fall out anymore.
No, don't put it there.
It's wet.
Okay.
Don't put it there.
Do you last put it on the soldering pad?
Yes.
Sponge.
Sponge.
That's the word, yes.
Just put it on a piece of paper.
Piece of paper that you won't find.
Yeah, it won't.
Okay.
Then you have to have some solder wire.
Yeah.
This one is adequate for the...
Easy brackets.
For the SMD components,
I usually want some smaller diameter one, like 0.5 millimeters.
Okay.
I'm ready to rock.
So, no.
Take your soldering iron.
Take the soldering.
Then you put your soldering iron next to the joint you want to make.
So, just the iron first.
Iron first, just?
Yeah.
And then you can add some solder wire now.
Soldering wire.
Nothing's happening.
Oh, but it's on.
It should.
Yeah.
It's enough.
Remove the iron.
And you're finished.
Oh, my God, my first solder.
I'm sold.
Actually, that doesn't look too bad.
Well, it looks very nice.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Mr. X.
You did a series on H2Q.
Okay.
So, I put the soldering iron next to the...
What do you call it?
Light.
And the LED.
Yeah, LED.
I think it's a common term.
Yeah.
And then it comes off.
Okay.
You see there?
It kind of went over onto the other track.
But it's okay.
Yeah, there's no bridge, so you don't have to worry about it.
So that went back.
And that's it.
So that's my first solder.
How do I know that worked?
You don't know until you are finished,
and you can try if everything works.
Okay.
Now you have to cut off the remaining leads,
which poke out on the bottom side.
And that's it.
That's it.
Wow.
Thank you very much.
One done?
Five to go.
And then all the other bits and pieces.
Yeah, exactly.
Okay.
I'm sure the rest of the listeners won't need to...
...are not interested in the remainder of this.
Thank you very much, Anna, for the interview.
And your website is?
Our website is blinkinarea.org.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Yeah, you're very welcome.
Beside Nido, I'm talking to.
My name is Sven Haagman.
And where are you and why are you here?
Well, I'm here because my boss sent me.
You la-ee-la-ee-bostered.
Well, I'll tell you.
I actually was already planning on coming.
Yeah.
So I saved the money on my savings account.
And then I told my boss I was going there.
And my boss said, oh yeah, I'm going to pay that for you.
So I had the money still on my savings account.
And if you have money in your savings account,
which you already planned on spending,
you're still going to.
So I took my girlfriend with me.
Awesome.
And why are you here?
And who is your company?
And do they have any vacancies at the moment?
We have a shitload of vacancies.
Because we're always looking for programmers.
I'm a programmer.
We mainly work for the Dutch government.
Okay.
The company name is Rhett Nose.
You can check out the website of RhettNose.nl, of course.
Okay.
And what we do is we make document creation software.
And as you know, what the government does
besides spying on you is create documents.
The Dutch government would never spy on anybody.
You know, I just realized that I worked for them.
So no, they don't.
No, definitely.
And don't stop my citizenship request either.
No, no, no.
They're actually quite cool people.
Okay.
And what type of coding do you do?
Well, we sort of started off as a small guy doing offline applications.
And then as the web progressed,
I went into web applications.
And now I'd sort of do this in-between thing.
Where you have like the web side or the web side.
Yeah.
And also the offline side.
And they sort of come together.
And now the mobile space is a whole new thing.
And that also comes into play.
And because we make like this one big application,
I'm sort of all over the board.
So I do the backend.
I do the web front end.
And also I do Android or iPad applications.
And those are needed.
Okay.
So I'm guessing Java from that and getting cocoa.
Well, cocoa for the iPad.
But that's actually my colleague who does the cocoa programming.
Android, we do Java because we want a native experience.
Although I don't want to touch Java with a seven foot pole.
So I sort of, we sort of say,
one of my colleagues who left now, I wonder why.
He did the Java side.
And I do the PHP Symphony II backend.
And we use UE3, which is our Y3,
depending on how you want to pronounce it,
in the front end.
And that's for the administrative side of the front end.
Because we have this front backend,
where you have people who manage the application.
They have an advanced browser.
And then it's the government.
So they all work with Internet Explorer.
Because that's a very secure browser.
And not the latest one, but actually like seven or eight.
So the actual front end is like, you know,
flat HTML, because it has to be compatible with a brick.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
Cool stuff.
And Flot, have you been as hot as your OHM 2013 being like?
It's been fantastic up to so far.
I met some cool people.
I know from a very long time ago.
So currently the sun is very hot.
It is.
And I have a headache because of that.
But also probably because last night,
I didn't want to go to bed too late.
You know, 5 p.m.
And I was kind of drunk.
So that sort of indicates that OHM has been pretty awesome up to this point.
Very good.
And you're getting paid first.
Yes.
I'm getting paid for it as well.
I don't even have to do it.
I thought I'd had to pay my free days.
But my boss said, no, no, no.
It's all covered.
So if you're interested in working for a company that does these things,
contact me.
Okay.
Very cool.
Have you been to any of the talks?
Or have you been hanging out?
I've been to most of the talks,
unless today because it's so damn warm,
I cannot stand the tense.
Yeah.
But I've been to a lot of the talks.
Most of them are about, you know,
economic politics, politics.
I've been to some hacker talks.
And my favorite talk up to this point,
and I already saw it.
So it's a very good talk if you ask me.
It's a guy called Tef.
And it was, the talk was called,
it's terrible to be a programmer.
Or coding is terrible, something like that.
Okay.
And you sort of, I like that talk only because I can connect with it.
That kind of indicates that I'm a simple,
minded person.
But I like that talk a lot.
Fair enough.
Are the talks here being streamed
or being available online?
Are there streamed?
Yes.
Well, I can give you the streaming URL,
but by the time this is on the,
on the hacker public radio,
people want to have much use for it.
No.
However, they will be available afterwards
in H264 format,
Teora, and probably something else.
That is being done by Team Rehash,
which is in the tent behind this,
which I don't know why I'm saying it,
because this is radio, but whatever.
Anyway, they will be put online later,
and you can check on 2013.org.
By the time they become available.
Okay.
And if I remember,
we'll put a link into the show notes to that talk.
Anything you're looking forward to seeing?
Actually, all I've been looking forward to is,
like my friend Brenno,
he came here to talk and I was looking forward to that.
I was looking forward to that.
I was looking forward to Tepp,
and that has already happened today.
I was kind of looking forward to Julian Assange,
because it was such a special thing,
although I have to admit,
I kind of fell asleep halfway through,
because he's a very, very,
he's a very long talker,
and eventually I'm assuming.
I was streamed in, I'm assuming.
Yes, yes.
Otherwise, the British intelligence forces
would be swarming around the tent there.
And that's, and furthermore,
what I've been looking forward to is,
you know, going on to the radio here,
having a fun time meeting cool people,
and that's basically what this event is about,
meeting cool people and inspiring people.
Yeah, it's pretty cool.
What I found interesting about the streaming was,
if you go round to the other tents,
either people just sitting around benches, hacking on stuff,
and then on their laptop is the streams of the events
that are happening in a tent, you know,
100 meters away,
but they're still hacking with the same mates
that they have back at home.
Well, yes, I think that's mainly because of the weather,
because it's way better outside
than it is inside one of those tents,
which is a very, which is a pity for the speakers,
because if you're a speaker and you're sitting there,
and there's like four people,
that's, I don't think that's very motivational,
and it doesn't make you very energetic to get your point across.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And you have to actually inspire people at this conference
to, you know, to make your point.
I think that's one of the most important things
that you come across clearly and inspiring,
and if there's four people,
I guess that's kind of hard,
although...
But then again, you have no idea how many people
will be able to do it.
Yeah, that's the point, right?
Watching another stream.
Okay, with that, thanks very much for taking the time,
and if you notice anything cool,
come up and catch us for another room to be.
Well, you're very welcome.
Thank you.
And if you want to do your own show,
just email Admin at Hack or Public Radio,
and we'll send you the FTP details.
Thank you.
Hi, this is Ken.
I'm here as OHM 2013,
and I've just come across a devian developer.
Hi.
How are you watching it?
Hello, I'm Tomas.
I'm not devian developer.
I'm devian maintainer, so...
Oh, okay.
I do not have full rights to upload any packages yet,
although I can upload my own packages
without any provision.
So what's the difference between them?
I mean, what are the different levels,
then, of contributing to the devian project?
The highest level is the devian developer.
This is the person who can upload any package,
either package key or she maintains,
or any other package,
which can be used, for example,
when some other developer is missing,
or there is...
On vacation or so.
Yeah, security issues.
Oh, yeah.
Or there is critical boxes.
And also, devian developers have full voting rights,
voting for devian project leader to change
constitution or other legal documents.
The notch below is the devian maintainer,
who can upload his or her own packages,
the packages he or she maintains,
but only those.
So, you need proper devian developer to agree for you
to upload those packages and to list them
in the special centralized database.
And what packages are you responsible for?
I'm responsible for free Python related packages.
PyQuda, which is to run computations
on Nvidia hardware using CUDA on Python.
PyOpenCL, which is similar to PyQuda,
but it's using OpenCL.
OpenCL is open standard to run parallel computations
on most of the types of hardware,
on CPU, on GPU, on FPGA, on DSPs,
and similar hardware.
And I'm also managing PyTools.
This is a helper package,
which is used by both PyQuda and PyOpenCL.
What's the use case for other of these applications?
Currently, the GPUs have vast amounts of computing capabilities.
So, CPU usually current CPUs have two,
four, sometimes six cores.
The GPUs can have up to 2,000 cores,
or something like this.
Yes, the Nvidia Titan has 1,536 cores.
And there are some higher levels
which combine a few of those together,
with very fast memory.
So, this is a really powerful computing machine,
but you need to be able to compute this,
because those machines offer slightly different programming models.
You do not have one third of execution,
but you fully utilize them.
You need to run 10,000 threads or something like this.
So, you need to manage those threads,
you need to manage memory on the GPU,
you need to manage the dependencies between memory,
you need to decide which threads are running,
which kernels, and so on.
So, this is quite complicated task.
Fortunately, OpenCL and CUDA help with this.
And PyQuda and PyOpenCL allow for those to be used with Python.
So, you can use more advanced programming techniques,
like meta programming generating code to be run on the GPU,
on the fly, templating these,
and doing quite sophisticated workflows.
But would you normally do that in Python or not,
would you not go to some sort of specialized language,
or language or something for massively parallel stuff?
The Errant is used from parallel stuff to run on the CPUs.
On the GPU, as I said,
this is slightly different hardware,
and you need to program it in different ways.
There are some performance-related things
you need to take into consideration.
For example, threads are grouped in the grid,
grid is divided into blocks,
and each block is divided into work,
or wavefront, depending on where wavefront is on the AMD hardware.
The concept is that you are making this grid of threads,
and each is responsible for one item of the data,
but to get most of the performance you need for those threads
to be running in so-called blockstep,
which means that all threads are doing the same thing,
or almost the same thing.
If the threads are diverging, for example,
one is going into the if branch,
another is going into the s branch,
it will win the very severe performance draw.
So, you need to be able to run,
to write your program in a special way,
to prepare special functions called kernels to run on the GPU,
and you are getting the best performance
when those kernels are utilizing the hardware
to the fullest possible extent.
For example, using as many registers as you can
to avoid having to access the global memory,
to use shared memory,
to share some state between threads in one block,
to decide whether you use more caching or more shared memory.
And this requires either writing
a few different kernels to run on different GPUs,
for example, different on Kepler,
or on Nvidia Fermi, on the Titan,
or you can use the Pi OpenCL or PiCuda
and use the dynamic meta programming
when you have some template and you generate code.
You look into the hardware description,
you ask how many threads can you run,
how many registers do you have,
how much memory do you have,
and then it is like,
okay, so I can have this block,
which will be 256 threads by 256.
Oh, and now I have a little bit less memory,
so I will drop it to 128 by 128 threads.
Okay, and if you're writing a Python program,
is it just do you need to modify your code
in order to make it compatible
or does it not matter?
Currently, you cannot run direct Python code on the GPU.
You need to write kernels in the special language,
which is similar to C.
This is the same case as for Rappers,
for OpenCL, for Java, or C.
In all those languages,
you need to have code,
the kernel code is written in the special sub-language.
And this means that in reality,
you have two programs.
You have one program,
which manages all those objects on the GPU,
kernels, threads, memory,
and the program making some computations,
which is run on the GPU,
and which is written in the special language.
And this also means that performance of the CPU side is not so important,
because the growth of the computations are on the GPU,
and CPU has only limited amount of work to do,
it just needs to coordinate.
That's why using Python does not bring any disadvantages,
but at the same time,
you have more advantages like garbage collector,
more classes, and stuff like this.
So you have tasks that you want to use on your GPU?
Yes.
Would you need to write a Python piece of code,
and the other code,
or just does the Python code derives the other code?
That depends on the task,
because if this is some general program,
I would need to write both Python code to manage the code,
and the code to run on the GPU.
But by OpenCL currently,
we have helper classes,
which already implement some common task,
like reduction of the collection of items,
to have one item like common prefix sum,
to have some to perform operation on one,
on each, on all of the elements,
to summarize them.
It also has the mapping functions.
So many of the functions,
thanks to this dynamicity of PyOpenCL,
are already written,
and then you are only calling the appropriate classes.
Okay.
Cool.
And why did you decide to do this on Demi,
and why did you wake up one morning and decide,
oh, I want to manage this code,
as well as just something else?
You know, that's the funny story,
because I've heard about GPU computing four years ago at Har,
which is the predecessor to this one, yeah?
Yes.
And when the guys from the GSM village were talking about
breaking the GSM code using the GPUs,
and I decided, okay,
this GPU stuff is interesting,
and I looked into this,
but I decided, okay,
writing this in the C is low level,
and I'm a little bit lazy,
so is there any better way to run it?
And then I found PyKuda,
and later PyOpenCL,
and that's okay, this is good.
And then I learned it,
I run it, I had some successes,
and then I decided, okay,
but it is actively developed software,
so doing it manually
is a little bit pardoned to me.
So I said, okay, let's try to make some package
so I can update it automatically.
And then...
One thing led to another?
One thing led to another,
and I made some packages,
and then I said, okay,
maybe I could also upload those packages to Debian,
so someone can help me manage those.
And that's the long story.
So it all started here four years ago?
Yes.
Awesome stuff.
Have you been Tani?
Have you been here long?
Have you been to many talks?
What's the coolest thing you've seen so far?
As the programmer,
I found today's talk about how to be good
or bad programmer,
very interesting and very thought-provoking.
Yeah.
Also, they talk about radio location,
using the special Army equipment,
which was very interesting.
And another interesting talk was...
Oh, yeah.
They talk about the food habits
and official food advisory from the government
and why it is wrong,
which was very interesting.
Okay, cool.
I'll put links to those in the show notes if I can remember.
Otherwise, they're on the OHM2013.org site
by the time you hear this.
Thank you very much for taking the time to talk to us.
Tune in later for another report from OHM2013
on Hackecamp Radio.
You are?
I like right.
And you are?
Chris Monroy.
And what are you two guys here promoting?
Well, I'm handing out these flyers
for EMF Camp, which is a Hacke Camp inspired
by the lights of CCC and the Dutch Hacke Camps
in the UK, because we thought
why doesn't this thing happen in the UK?
And now it does as of last year.
So we ran it with a capacity of 500 people last year
and it's hopefully going to be a two-year-leaf thing.
Next year, we're planning to have a capacity
of 1,500 people.
So this is going to be running at some points in the summer,
somewhere in the UK.
We're still looking for a site.
So if anyone has any recommendations, please do get in touch.
And our URL is emfcamp.org.
And you can reach us on Twitter at emfcamp.
And we also, I believe, have an IRC channel on free node
also, EMF camp.
Okay, perfect.
What is it going to be a similar thing to this?
Tense Hacking beer?
Well, yeah, exactly.
Just all every hacker type getting together in a field,
setting up villages, exchanging ideas,
all the usual sort of stuff.
Yeah, the usual mix of lock picking, electronics,
drunk soldering.
Drunk soldering.
Have you been told company all last year?
No, I went to EM Wave,
which was kind of a sub event in Canary Wharf at London.
So that was on the EMS stuff, and it's a boat.
And it just disbanded, fishing vessel.
So that was really cool.
Just a one-day event to sort of fill in
between last EMF camp and the next one.
Do you go to any of the barcams at all,
or what's your organization,
or your uni, or what's the story?
Why are you here?
Well, I'm a member of London Hack Space,
and so I tend to have that crowd,
and so we went to CCC in 2011.
That's the first one I went to,
and then EMF camp last year.
Now I'm here, and hopefully going to make a tradition
of going to these hacker festivals.
Cool.
What has been the coolest thing you've seen so far?
It's been pretty good around.
I don't know, I haven't had any other talks.
Some of the security related ones have been the ones I've been focusing on more.
We had one recently, which is about Dutch alarm systems.
And they went quite in-depth into the protocol out of Florida.
That was pretty good.
I brought that up.
I'm not surprised.
Yeah.
Just being to talk about copying keys from photos
and why you should never show your keys on video.
It's actually making a physical replication also from a photo,
or a frame of video.
Oh, very nice.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah, but generally all sorts of interesting stuff to see around the campsite.
Where are you camped?
Our village is over in the northeast corner of W Field.
We've got a little tent with our logo on.
So if anyone wants to drop by and have a chat, please do.
Okay, tune in later for more exciting updates from Om 2013.
How are you doing?
How are you?
Bacon zombie.
And you are?
Crossy.
And what are you doing here?
Other melting in the heat, poor lads.
Campsy talks, but the moment it's just drinking beer.
Right.
The Irish stereotype is intact.
Drinking beer and trying to say out of the song.
Again, the Irish stereotype is safe.
You guys have hacked your tents.
What have you done?
We stuck mylar sheets onto the tent, try and reflect the sun.
Get rid of that bit of radiative heat from the sun and not boil in the tent.
So what are you doing over here, what's the, who are you representing at all?
I think most of us are a part of Tog Dublin.
The Dominic space is a couple of guys from laptops and 91 labs.
So I could face in goalways off.
Okay.
How was the hackerspace developing over there?
Well, we've started it about three years ago.
And we've steadily grown.
We moved to a new space.
We have quite a good space in Dublin.
And it attracts a lot of people.
We've events on throughout the week.
From lockpicking to craft night to the other open social.
Which, of course, beers involved.
No, I don't remember that.
And were you involved in the whole set up of the hackerspace or not?
No, I came in after the first year of it.
So most of the guys were originally from the local 26th under meetup.
So it's still an active 26th under meetup.
It's kept completely separate from the hackerspace.
But quite a few of the founder members came from that group.
Okay.
You listened to our group of radio by the time I heard.
Okay.
Or were you sure?
So what time did you come to OHM?
What was the reason behind that?
Being to a couple of conferences before, I was at the camping event in Berlin two years ago.
I really liked it.
And new people went hiking around them.
So it was really good.
This is the previous one to this.
Yeah.
Okay, cool.
What, any talks that you've been to?
Any talks that you must see?
After you security, that was pretty high level.
It doesn't go into the kind of detail that we like.
I heard a few people talking about that.
I actually expected a little bit more.
Say no more.
Say no more.
Right, so listen, I'll let you off.
Back to your rear.
Enjoy the sun or lack of it.
And tune in later on for another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Hi, everybody.
My name is Ken Phalan.
I was almost another segment here in Hacker Public Radio.
I walked into this tent.
What's the name?
Hardware Hacking tent.
Hardware Hacking tent.
Excellent.
Was it before Hacker Public Radio?
Back into Robert Fitzsiamen.
Because he's got to ask me about my project sign on his laptop.
So Robert, tell me about your project.
It might be a little hard for you to see on radio,
but it's a visual project where I'm showing off.
Right, that's it.
I'm caught.
It's not gonna use us.
I'm showing off some original RGB dot matrix displays
that I built up over the last year or two,
and I'm showing up some wearable electronics projects as well
where you combine electronics with fashion items or clothing items.
Can I take some photos?
Yes, you can, yeah.
Okay, so talk to me about it all.
Where do you start?
I've been building the electronics for...
has a hubby for like a number of years now.
And most of my projects involve LEDs and usually copious huge numbers
of thousands of LEDs.
And I started using these red, green, blue, colourful LEDs
in a lot of my displays.
One of the brightest ones I have here I kind of went with a very...
you see the stripey?
Yes, I do, yeah.
This one I kind of designed.
I wanted to be like a very compact, almost like a tablet style
where you couldn't see any of the workings of the design.
It's just very kind of slick.
Yeah, so from just to describe it here, say it's about...
I don't know.
42x32 pixels.
Thank you very much.
And it's about the size of two hands.
One on top of each other I guess.
It would be an international highly accurate measuring system.
But it's kind of cool and it's got dreamy shapes like clouds floating in it.
Yeah.
I'd say now if it was stormed it would be awesome.
Well, it's actually pretty awesome now as it is.
So, on the back what have we got?
It is the microcontroller that we're using to control it
is the embed from NXP.
So it's a more powerful version of something like the Arduino platform
that many people will use to their projects.
It's got more memory, more performance for generating the colorful displays.
How did you do this display?
I designed it up using open source electronic design software called GEDA, G-E-D-A,
and to scheme, you know, put together the boards, send them off to some manufacturers in the UK.
Hopefully they're correct as a one-off or two one-off boards.
And they came back and then I built it last year for the EMF camp in the United Kingdom.
I'd had the modules for the display in my drawer for about three years.
Like Roger, I said, I must do something with them.
And then you were going to know them.
So you just kind of put it on.
And you were doing those at the last minute or so?
Oh, at the last minute.
I was assembling it in the tent in the hardware hacking tent in Milton Keynes last year.
In the middle of the night, hoping not to make mistakes when you're soldering thousands of,
run up thousands, hundreds of solder pads onto a circuit board.
It didn't work in the end and I had a mistake, so you've got a blue wire to connect up and fix the mistake.
And it didn't really work on the time because you end up not having enough time for some projects like that.
I did get most of it assembled, but the project itself kind of...
I just had it showing like red, green, blue, and not the colorful pattern that I have it showing today.
That must have taken hours to get worth it.
The software or the software?
Yeah, because you spend many days iterating on the design of PCB.
Then you send it off.
And then you can do in that week or so that it takes for the boards to arrive in the post.
The other projects that I have are the wearable technology.
They're using things like the Lillipad Arduino, using the Lillipad Arduino or the Adafruit Flora displays.
So these are circuit boards that are designed to be sewn into clothing.
In Washington?
Yes.
Like handwush.
The circuits have big pads that you can sew conductive threads onto.
This is the conductive thread here.
So this is a silver coated cotton thread.
Which just looks like regular old thread into it.
And you just use kind of normal sewing or embroidery techniques to sew your LEDs or your buttons or your switches.
And other circuits into the design.
Make sure not to cross for the threads to touch because that will short your circuit out.
Connect up an end user Arduino programming environments to offload code to have it to react to.
Your movement, the environment's proximity to external sounds.
Why by detectors?
Yeah, they have accelerometer sensors and light sensors, movements, buttons.
You can make buttons just by, you know, you can have a switch on either side of your gloves.
So when you put your hands together, your lights turn on.
Some people have made bike lights.
So when you raise your arm out, that your arm might light up or turn signal.
That's pretty good.
It's just an indicator.
You have a speedometer.
So the motor is realized actually you're doing the speed limit and they don't need to overtake you.
At least back home in Dublin.
Yes.
It got some other kind of RGB pixels as well.
So you can really decorate your items.
Accessorizer clothing and use them for party use.
That's awesome.
What do you wear?
You don't wear any of this yourself, do you?
Not really.
I'm more of a geek who likes to build things.
Yeah.
Not such a geek who likes to express himself.
We're wearing plastic lights.
I'm on the risk of electrocuting ourselves.
It's only three volts.
It's not likely to do too much damage.
Fair enough.
So you're from Ireland?
Yeah, yeah.
I came over to a group from the Tag Hacker Space in Dublin.
Yeah, I just spoke to them.
They're sitting at the tent, drinking, and you're over here representing them.
But I'm indoors.
Well, it's inside a big tent.
It's as indoors as we get in the tent.
They're melting outside.
Well, I'm melting inside.
Well, that is actually pretty fantastic.
Thank you very much for showing me your stuff.
Is there anything else I missed or should I post it?
I don't think so, no.
Cool.
What do you run in?
Well, this?
On this?
Are these?
Oh, yeah, what are they?
These are solder badges.
It's a very simple learn to solder kit.
You know, you solder the battery holder, a pin, and the LED in place.
And you get a flashy badge.
It's great for kids.
It says I can solder.
I just solder for the very first time.
Today.
I'm fucking so chuffed with myself.
Yeah.
And what's your laptop?
What make is it?
Yeah.
It's an MSI, something...
It's a US laptop because I like a US keyboard.
Yes, that's...
Yeah.
I just like it.
How much do you run on it?
Devin.
Straight solder.
It's probably a testing non-stable hybrid monstrosity.
Yes.
It runs and runs and runs.
Never, never, ever upgraded the weekend.
When did that happen?
Yeah.
I think I upgraded...
No.
Did I?
No, I did upgrade.
I ran upgrade like on Monday.
Yeah.
Or...
Sorry, no, it's Wednesday.
It's probably like on Sunday or something.
Like, over the weekend.
I did it upgrade.
Never, never a good thing.
You know, always run and say that you should always do it on a Wednesday.
That way, the guys who've worked the weekend, there's a few days for them to get a fixed.
I kind of probably run testing then on Wednesday.
That's a regular thing.
It unstables in the list, but testing is higher up in the sources.
That list, perhaps.
Well, cool.
Thanks for talking to me.
It's the only thing you want to...
Anything you're going to go on see or you stuck here for the whole time.
I think I probably stay here for more...
That's what I tend to do.
All the recordings are recorded.
All the talks are streamed and recorded.
So you can watch them at home at the leisure.
The leisure, yeah.
You have to interact with people, because that's the most important thing about being in the camp.
Yeah, I agree.
I completely agree.
I need to find somewhere to base myself, because it's too hot for walking around.
Alright, thanks a minute.
I'll talk to you later.
Hi, my name is Ken Falon, and we're here again at OHM 2013.
I'm in the hackerspace book of...
Of the open garage wall.
We don't call it an official hackerspace.
It's very close to what hackerspaces.
But we're a bit a little bit different.
How are you different?
Well, the thing is, well, I just gave this in a lightning talk,
so I know it.
I know it will pitch now.
Okay, thanks a lot.
I'm a skill clatterer.
I try to collect all kinds of skills, and I have my garage in my garden.
It's a big garage, and I've all the stuff there.
All the metal and woodworking, all the classic stuff,
but also electronics.
It's a stuffer.
CNCs and Ivalade.
Yeah, we have the CNC here.
You can show you that.
The guy has a CNC machine.
It's pretty big.
Come on, see.
It's fucking cool.
Oh, sorry.
Oh, that's okay, far ahead.
Meanwhile, while he's doing that, I'll take a picture of the CNC machine.
How did you come by a CNC machine?
Well, we got it from a school that was planning to dump it.
We're going to dump the machine, and we came just before the dumpster,
and saved it.
Now it's working again, so we can use that.
Are you Dutch based?
We're in Belgium and Antwerp.
Oh.
So we're not all that far away from here.
Oh, okay, fair enough.
Well, we could bring lots of lots of stuff, yeah.
How did you get it all here?
Well, we had some big transport.
We had the trailer on the next door as well.
We had a huge village over about 30 people, so there's lots of stuff,
and lots of people that are willing to transport.
So you've got this garage, and you just said to people, come on by.
Yeah, well, my wife, she had these cropping clips every week,
so her friends came over.
And I like the Hecker Space culture a lot.
Yeah.
But the problem is, wait a second.
No, it's okay, far ahead.
So I like the Hecker Space thing,
but I have children as you can hear now.
Yes.
And I also want to babysit and be at home and work in my spot and stuff like that.
Yeah.
So I invite people over just like my wife did,
but we do technology-based things in the garage.
And it's a real technological garage with all the stuff there, too.
Just like Hecker Space, but it's at my place.
I'm the boss and the dictator, but the rules are pretty energetic,
and everybody's free to use whatever they want to and come in.
And bring in a lot of somebody chops the finger off,
and they sell it back on, I suppose.
Well, that's their own net, their own problem, then.
Cool.
So what have you got here, aside from a CNC machine?
Well, we have a CNC machine.
We have a big Tesla coil outside.
Yeah, that didn't draw my attention.
That we can play with.
We have a bunch of 3D printers.
Well, I think we brought the whole lot.
I think we're quite...
It's an intensive and older technology that we bring.
Telescopes.
Telescopes.
Yeah, yeah.
We have big beamers with us that we want to install on XQD stills.
We're just building, we're working on making something here.
Okay, very cool, very cool.
And 3D printers, have you found that the people who come for your wife's stuff
and the people who come for your stuff that does the mingling of the two
or that there's a mixture of the cultures?
No, it's quite different cultures.
We see that.
The wives are not very interested in electronics.
So we're not very interested in Nintendo.
So the old app isn't there yet.
I did interview a guy who was doing wearable electronics.
Exactly.
It's a nice mix.
I like it as well, but we never managed it.
Not there yet.
So that thing's been printing it all morning.
What are you making on it?
He's making a quadcopter parts for that.
But unfortunately, power failed on us for a couple of times already.
I think it's already a third of her try.
And you have to restart from scratch.
From scratch, unfortunately.
So it takes a few hours to print apart.
Yeah.
How do we find?
Cool.
Anything else that you want to?
Is anybody, any of our listeners around Antwerp?
Where can I direct them to you?
If people are in Belgium and they're all free to come over
at Open Garage.org.
We are in Bordesbake, which is near Antwerp in Belgium.
Okay, cool.
Bring a beer.
Well, that thing is, you have to bring a drink,
because that's our economics.
I keep the empty bottles, and we take that in for extra bolts and stuff.
So we have constant stock, and that's the economics that we have in the garage.
So bring a drink, bring a project, and bring a friend.
So that our network expands, and we always have new people to talk to you.
Absolutely, excellent.
Thanks very much.
The link for this will be in the show notes of the show.
Okay, talk to you later.
You have been listening to Hegerpublic Radio,
at HegerpublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network,
that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever considered recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hegerpublic Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the infonomicum computer club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-sponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom-private clouds,
go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis,
today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share a line, 3.0 license.
For all your hosting,
visit our website to find out how easy it is.
