Episode: 1836
Title: HPR1836: The Statusnet Shuffle
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1836/hpr1836.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 09:57:13

---

This is HPR episode 1836 entitled The Status It Shuffle.
It is hosted by Enable and is about 45 minutes long.
The summary is Peru and Enable talk about moving a status in its instance and converting it to the ANU social.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello, this is NY Bill and I'm here with my buddy Thuru. How are you pal?
I'm fine thanks and how are you?
I'm doing good and while I'm doing good personally but my computers are not doing good.
My VPS is plural this time.
Okay, one Debian and one proper.
What proper are you talking about the Archbox?
Yeah, I'll just say a little backstory about what happened here.
Both through and I run Arch. Is yours a linoid?
On my linoid and on my digital ocean I run.
I didn't actually, I didn't check there. They have a package ready to roll on Arch.
No, you have to install Debian and then I pull the script from someone on GitHub and it makes the Debian install.
Look at this, we're like 30 seconds into it and we just had a sidetrack already.
The point of this podcast is I have an Arch linoid and I've been running it forever and I set it up with StatusNet and SSH to it.
I can be persistent in IRC and what else? I've got Media Goblin on there and what I've found out over time is I'm kind of set it up.
Set your VPS up and then I just become a user of it and I'm not in there like being the system admin as much as I should be.
You can't really do that with Arch.
If you miss a few updates you get horribly behind or it gets impossible or very hard to get back on track with your updates.
You are a little more diligent with that stuff.
I run update a couple of times every day.
A couple of times every day. I run an Arch update when you remind me to on StatusNet.
I need to do a bit of scripting then.
He said once a year is back that he's going to set up a cron job that will just tell me every morning to update.
Can't you just have that cron job update my computers?
Just take me out of the middle as the middleman.
Yeah, I probably could back.
I can't remember it was so long ago.
What exactly went wrong with my Arch box?
Probably PHP.
It was multiple problems.
It was compound and then Apache updated and broke all my V-hosts.
You have to do a bit of a faffing around when from Apache 2.2 to Apache 2.4.
Then they changed their...
What would you call it?
The wording of the V-host or the V-host?
The way you put your access, allow access to false, they changed.
Basically, when I first set up GunMonkeyNet, which is the Arch Linux node,
I was learning Apache at that time and I kind of just learned enough to get it going.
I became competent enough to set Apache up and then I just quickly forgot it all.
It's up and running and it just all went out of my head.
When it broke, I'm like, oh, I just got to learn it all over again.
Yeah.
When that happened, I started saying to instead of SNET to you guys,
Apache's broke, has anybody else fixed it?
Multiple people were just saying Apache is the problem.
Go use EngineX.
Have you ever used EngineX?
I was thinking, well, I have two VPSs and one is the one that I don't have too much around with.
And then there's the test one.
So I was planning on trying EngineX on the test one at some point of time.
So back then, I was in a bit of a pinch with the Apache was broke.
What do they call it? Apache 2?
Yeah, 2.2.
Went from 2.2.2.4.
And everyone was saying that EngineX is just later on the system and an easier config.
And if you have to relearn it, something anyways, you know, I figured,
okay, well, why don't I start messing around with EngineX.
So I did back then as well.
I got a digital ocean and then I started messing around with EngineX on it.
And then I was waiting for Gun Monkey Net to fall over because the arch was so out of date
and things were so problematic with it.
I ran out of eye nodes once.
I mean, how many eye nodes do you have?
And I ran out.
So I got to the point with EngineX where I thought I could get it going,
but there was still some problem.
And then Gun Monkey Net never did fall over.
So I just kept using it.
And I had digital ocean running on the side just to fool around with.
But I didn't fool around with much.
And then the meantime, Windigo had figured out how to get EngineX working with StatusNet.
There's some forwardings and like PHP forwarding you have to do back and forth.
Yeah.
Actually, I think there are quite a few blog posts about this.
Well, it was Windigo's that I ended up using recently.
So then now that I got back in the swing of things of trying to rebuild a VPS,
I thought I wanted to rebuild it in Debian because me being a little bit lazy with the updates,
Debian's a little more stable over the long haul.
But you're going to be a diehard and it's arch everything, right?
Yes, because it's the only system that works.
The way you answered that sounded so like there is no other answer.
But of course, that can only be one.
And that would be Arch Linux.
Yeah, I'll run it all the time on my laptop.
But like the desktop, I come up here to do email and pay bills.
I don't want to do updates.
My E is still running an old crunch bang.
I only use it three or four times a month.
I just want that to work too.
And I also just want a VPS to work as well as possible.
It's painless.
It's painless.
It's painless.
Hey, I'm not a sister.
I don't do this for a living.
This is hobby stuff.
That's same for me.
I just lost my train of thought.
I was going somewhere with this.
Oh, yeah.
Now that I'm starting to mess with the digital ocean more,
I spun up a devian.
I got SSH working with certs.
I got the IRC going.
I got everything ready.
And I did a backup snapshot so I can start trying to bring over
media goblin and bring over status net.
And that snapshot's there.
So when I screw things up, I can just restore the snapshot
and start again.
And so what I want to do is go from an arched linode
with status net to a devian digital ocean
and switch to GNU social.
Because I don't think they're going to update status net anymore.
Are they?
No.
Actually, yeah.
GNU social to go from status net.
It's a complete takeover.
So this is back in the same situation.
You just leave it lingering for so long.
You're going to fall so far behind.
Yeah.
It's just going to be more pain to try and catch up.
Yeah.
So you wrote a blog post.
You had moved your status net from linode to digital ocean.
Yeah.
And you did go from status net to GNU social.
Yeah.
And I actually moved.
That was because I had to redo my arch install on the linode.
So I moved my status net from linode to digital ocean.
We did my arch on linode and moved it back.
So you went.
You went status net to status net and fixed linode
and then brought status net back.
And you did a transition to GNU social in there somewhere.
No status net to status net and then status net to GNU social.
Okay.
This is what I need to do now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So we'll link a link.
The window goes blog.
If anybody wants to look at engine X with status net GNU social.
I think I have that working now.
It's just there's something still broken with my, my instance.
So you want to talk, should we talk about the blog post a bit?
Yeah.
And I, this is one of the rare occasions.
I actually do a blog post because writing stuff isn't a strong side.
But on occasion, you need to, to remind yourself how you do things.
And that's what a blog is focused.
Well, other people can get the reminder as well.
I used to do this, but not with a blog.
I do it on forums.
And then deviates took down his forum.
And then the original Linux outlaws took down that first forum was going.
So so many of what I was using as blog posts are gone.
You just need to put up a block.
Yeah.
Let me fix these things first and then we'll move on.
Yeah.
Sure.
So.
But yeah.
This was basically just to touch, document how I did things.
I'm getting old.
I can't remember stuff.
Well, I think you're on status net because I went right through this thing.
It was helpful for me.
Yeah.
We'll talk about why it still might be broken at the end.
But we can go through the steps here if you want.
Yeah.
Well, basically the first step is, if you want to move it,
well, you need to set up the depending on how you do it.
I just made a dump of my SQL database.
Well, we'll probably link to the blog, but there's a command line for doing that.
And well, I'll just tard it up then afterwards.
You should mention that you're going to want to bring this database with you.
So did you?
Yeah.
I dumped my database right in status net.
How you did?
Yeah.
I just dumped it to my user directory on the server and then asked it to my computer.
And the same thing with, because status net is PHP, I just copied the folder and tarded and
concepted it.
And yeah, asking that to my computer as well.
And then I actually had the digital ocean running with all the things installed that you need.
So yeah, I asked things stuff to that.
And yeah, we should mention you should look at a how to install GNU social or something.
If you're going to move, if you're going to try this moving because you need,
yeah, like PHP.FPM or something, you need a whole bunch of PHP stuff.
Yeah, basically it's, if you just clone the Git repository, I say install file in there.
More or less tell you what to install.
Oh, great.
I did it the hard way.
So I didn't read the instructions.
If you have to read the instructions, you've already lost.
Yeah, manuals are not for real men.
Manuals in Ulos.
Yeah, real men don't take backups.
They cry a lot.
And a lot.
No, I use backups now.
I learn the hard way.
I pay an extra five bucks a month.
Trust me.
Yeah, I actually, well, actually, I paid a bit less, but has to do with the way I set up my
manual.
So I did asking the stuff to the server.
And I set up, well, I patch it.
It's the one I use.
And I just, I have a Vhost file from my status net social and all the other stuff in different
Vhosts.
So I ask things those as well.
And I set up her Apache and all the dependencies.
And on top of the, the, you know, social or status net now directory and put it where I wanted.
And then you need to set up my school, well, MariaDB as it is.
So I still type my SQL in out of habit.
And it just doesn't seem to mine.
It's probably an alias.
No, no, no, it's the same thing.
Usually when you remove my SQL and install MariaDB, it's basically the same thing.
But yeah, so I just set up, you need to set up your database again.
Oh, this was interesting.
You need to set up an empty database and then restore to it.
Yeah, this was never knew about this.
This was cool.
Yeah, it's not a database.
Same here.
I had to do a bit of a doctor going, googling stuff to find out how to do that.
So what you do is you set up your database with the user and then you basically, you just
import.
Let me just stop you right there because I'm reading along as you're going down through the blog.
You create database, you give it a database name.
Then you grant all on database dot star to user at local host identified by good password.
What I did the first time was I grant all at database name, which I use my own dot star to user at local host identified by and then I put a password.
So I made, I made the owner of the database user at local host, not so I had to get rid of that.
If you're reading along, you're going to change user to whatever you want to use.
Yeah, the use of the database.
Yeah, definitely.
That was a little hang up.
I just had to undo.
So I'll just get some warning.
Yeah.
Yeah, and then you need to switch to the database.
So use database calling, send me calling.
And then you need to import the database.
And for me, let's go a bit back.
When you create the database, what I found out is you have to be in the same directory as you put where you put your database dump of your database.
Then you need to create the stuff and then you just import it by sourcing.
Yeah, let me ask you a question about what you just said first.
When you create your database, you have to be where the backup is.
Yeah.
But do you need that backup to be out in the status net like VAR WW or serve HTTP?
No, no.
You just need to be wherever you have that dump.
Yeah, yeah.
Just make a database from that location.
Yeah, because the way I do stuff on server is I have the root use and then I have my user as well.
It's a sensation in this root.
It's an logo.
Yeah, I do that.
So I always have a user and it's usually where I put stuff.
And then I just copy it to where I wanted it.
Yeah, so I did everything up to this point.
Well, I did everything in the blog post, but we're up to this point talking about it.
So I dump my database in my status net.
So over on Archit was what, serve HTTP status net.
So I had, and then I just are synced that whole entire folder over to digital ocean under bill, just my user bill.
And that's where I restored my database.
And then I started from there, you know, move and copy things out to, you know, WWVAR or VAR WW status genus.
So yeah, see why you need to edit things.
Yeah, going from Arch to Debian, you have to keep moving your head back left and right.
Yeah, so I didn't know if what you were just saying about restoring the database.
I don't have a concept of where the database is actually stored in the whole system.
Any database, because there's one for, well, there's a bunch of them.
Yeah, but they are, usually they are where you have a squirrel, I think.
And you can actually point it to other places as well.
I think it goes into a database config file.
But there is somewhere where you can go, you might not be able to read them, but you can just go look that there's a database.
Like I'm VAR something or user something.
Yeah.
As far as I know, because again, I'm not a database expert at all.
You're doing better than I am.
So that, yeah, restore.
And you make a database and then you restore in the same folder and then it's populating somewhere out in its database.
Yeah, for lack of better words, it's importing the database into the one you made.
Okay.
And if this was just the move of a status net, if you have your Apache set up, you could be running right now.
Yes, I should recall.
I said that I got digital ocean up to a certain point where I had like a base system and then I did a snapshot.
So then I did everything up to this point in your blog and I made another snapshot.
So I can, if I think I might have messed it up already, but I can go back to this point and then send everything up to a folder and start again.
So I might try to just get it running as status net and then switch it to GNU social.
That might be better.
Yeah.
I don't think it matters if you have a running on our Nordkiss.
The switching to GNU social is mostly, well, I probably think the database is what can go wrong.
Of course, you can't just move from a steps net to the latest get pull from GNU social.
Yeah, it's a step.
That's coming up actually.
Well, I hate to keep interrupting you. Go ahead.
No, it's.
Or up to that point anyway.
Here it is.
Yeah. So basically, you could either, if you said on having a status net, I mean, I follow a guy who is still on the status net 0.9 something.
Aussie guy MDA something.
Oh, you're asking for a user.
Yeah, I can't, can't, can't remember his nick, but I think he's still on the before status net switched to 1.0.
So he's a little bit like this.
Set it up and forget it.
Yeah.
And I don't think it was a easy move from 9.0 something to 1.0.
But anyway, yeah, you could just set up status net and have it running, but it's not maintained anymore.
So probably a good idea to move it to GNU social.
So yeah, what we need to do then is we need to clone the get repository from GNU social, which I can't remember where they have it now.
So currently in the block it's pointing to, to guitarist, but, yeah, I have it written down.
I had to do a little searching and I found it.
Yeah, I think I think they have it on new.
Get dot GNU dot IO slash GNU slash GNU dash social.
Yeah, but we're talking about me being lazy with updating things.
You need to update this blog.
Yeah, but the concept is just, you can't just copy pasted at the moment.
It might be different after we recorded this.
Yeah, so just if you get into trouble with this get clone, figure out where they have the repository now.
But what you actually need to do doing this get clone is you need to clone the one dot one dot something branch.
One dot one dot X.
So you clone that, well, basically you make a directory clone it to whatever you want to call it.
And then you need to run it.
So for me, yeah, Bill is using slush slash slash VV or I have no concept of Debian where you put stuff.
Oh, where the status net is held.
It's up in bar slash WW slash whatever.
Yeah, it's just slash serve slash HTTP.
Well, not on my arch.
And then the user changes from WW data to HTTP.
Yeah, see, see, see, see, see, I actually, I put mine and uses less share slash web apps.
Yeah, it doesn't really matter where you put anything as long as you do the permissions right and your point to it with your Vhosts.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
It's I can't remember why I put it there.
Probably because that's where I should install stuff.
I actually have Vhosts pointing to different servers at the moment.
Like my web page is being served off digital ocean and everything else is on still on linoid.
Yeah, but that's, yeah, I do do that as well.
Yeah, I do that as well.
Sometimes if I need to redo something, I just move it to the test server.
But that's, yeah, the test server isn't really the most powerful one.
It's the cheapest digital ocean you can get at the moment.
Yeah, but what you need to do is you need to copy the stuff you just cloned to the user directory where you want to put it.
And then there's a few things you need to copy from your status net folder.
Well, obviously, you need the config file.
You'll need, if you're using Apache, you'll need the .hxt access.
Yeah.
So I found out with engine X, I didn't need that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because I think has to do a bit with the redirects and stuff and what you're allowed to read and not read in the directory.
Yeah, that one you need to copy.
And then you need to copy your avatar folder or you're going to have a very, you're going to have a lot of blue men hanging around the blue point.
Yeah, there's actually a, there's a script where you can pull all the avatars in again for people you follow.
But it's better to, it's probably better to copy that one.
Then if you upload a stuff, there's a file directory, you need to copy.
Just give it a background.
You need, well, if you, if you have a background background.
Yeah, background.
Yeah, that's, I think that's legacy.
Because that was it from the 1.9.
Of course, because I, on the test server, I have the nightlies for GNU social and I update that a lot.
So I don't think you, because if you look in the, in the backgrounds folder, there's nothing in there.
Oh, okay.
I thought it made something to do with like images for CSS or something.
Okay, maybe it's going on.
Yeah, I think it's a, I think it's legacy.
I can be wrong.
So probably good idea to copy it.
Files, you need to copy.
If, if, actually, if, if you're not, depending on whether you simply show simplified English or maybe some other language,
you need to build, build the language files.
Okay.
I probably forgot that to put that in, but you should be okay.
Yeah, I think it's, by default, it's a simplified English.
It's a good thing that you bothered to learn English or we would never have talked.
The, the, the, you know, teaching anything else.
You might learn a little Spanish around here, but that's it.
Yeah, yeah.
I would only be talking to maybe seven million people if I didn't learn another language because not that many people speak Danish.
For somewhat reason.
I'll learn, but the next podcast I'll learn.
Okay.
Say, I don't know.
Now, I interpret it again.
That's okay.
The background, the files, you need to build the, you need to build the language files.
Something.po files.
It's basically a make a command you run.
Well, as I said, you'll be good if, if, if people just use a US English,
shouldn't be any problem.
I see other languages, but I have, I see a lot of German in my timeline.
Yeah.
Yeah, and I think if, if you go there's GNUSocial.de, if you go there, you'll see the site is in German.
It's been seen, probably built, built it and pointed it to English.
I actually have a UK English on mine.
I see.
So color and color are spelled different.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Country on country on tomato and tomato.
Aluminum.
Other spelled the same.
Aluminum.
Aluminum.
Yeah.
So you need to build the.
P.O. files.
Probably, you could probably is, you probably don't need to build them now,
because when are we going to do the same stuff once again?
So just leave that one.
You need to copy the themes if you have a different theme.
You don't have to.
It's only if, if, if you're not using the default team,
but maybe download a different theme.
Yeah, I think I just put a gun monkey net logo with a little green slash line under it.
But I did need that out of my theme holder.
I think I can't remember.
I have a J-pop that made a theme I used.
And I think currently I'm using a theme from some Russian guy.
I can't remember his handle.
So I think I know you're talking about.
I can picture his avatar and it's drawn a blank too.
Yeah.
But, but if you have changed the theme,
you need to.
To copy that over as well.
And then.
For me, yeah, you need to make the read write permissions for,
for where you put the status net.
I'm an arch.
Where you put G and you social.
Yeah.
So yeah.
Actually, it's not we're not there.
There.
Yeah.
Oh, G and you social.
Yeah.
True.
Yeah.
So that's because my folder is still named after status net.
That's basically just so I can remember stuff.
But, but you need to.
I'm showing that folder to whatever you run.
Engine I saw a patch.
Yes.
Yep.
So here.
If you're just like going along and copy pasting again.
So HTTP is the archway.
So if you're on Debian, you're probably WWW data.
Or some.
Status net installs actually had you make a status net user.
Yeah.
So that's just just be careful there again.
Yeah.
And then you need to upgrade.
Do the database stuff.
So you need to go into.
Yeah.
The folder that you just made.
HTTP be the owner of an arch.
You need to see the end of that one and then to scripts.
And then you need to run.
Upgrade script.
And it's a PSP script.
So.
Now I ran into a little bit of trouble here because my Debian did not have one PHP thing I was looking for.
So.
I.
Oh, I got it written down on my notes here.
So I needed to install PHP 5 slash CLI.
So that's some type of PHP command or anything.
Yeah.
So if you get trouble at this step, that might be what you're missing.
And here's a while of running arch because it's of course installed because you need stuff like that.
Hey, I'm half on your side.
I'm running arch.
But you need to run the upgrade script and it will tell you if you forgot to copy something.
Over it.
You'll say this and this is missing.
So you run that one.
And basically you just did a upgrade of the database.
So now you could try and launch status net.
Just activate your vhost and run the the daimons.
But actually we want to be on the latest one.
So we just upgraded the database.
And this is probably you can probably do this a lot easier if you know the new like me.
So for me, that means we go back to the folder where you cloned.
You know, social to and remember we were on the one dot one dot x branch.
So we need to switch to the master branch branch with my get food, which is nonexistent.
So get check out dash b as in branch and then master.
And then you need to set the get branch to master.
Well, it's in on the block.
And then you need to pull stuff.
So get set get branch set upstream blah blah blah.
Waiter up to this point.
It's just like a get pull every time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And the home stretch.
Yeah.
So get pull.
And then yeah, then you're set.
Now basically this just means that you.
The steps you just did with updating stuff.
You'll need to do that again.
So I go to my folders.
So CDs.
Let's use us.
Let's share slash web apps and make a backup of my now get social.
A new social folder.
Remove that one copy.
The master branch of a social social over.
And once again, we need to.
Actually, we need to copy stuff.
So.
Yeah.
To access file.
Yeah.
It's basically everything we we copied.
Yeah, everything I just did.
I actually miss a few steps there because I forgot to copy the.
Install Dutch PHP.
No, not the install the config Dutch PHP file over.
That's kind of important.
Well, you said your weekend project was just fixing a few things with this.
So because we're going to wait here.
Yeah.
And if it says to pull from Gitarius.
Do your homework.
I've got in the sway and I didn't update it.
Anyway, yeah, you need to copy all the things you just did before.
And yeah, actually here's where I do the make after copying all stuff over.
Do the make so that you can choose whatever language you want afterwards.
And then.
Yeah, you basically set but.
It's probably a good idea to remove the install Dutch PHP file.
I've actually I've actually searched for things about status in the past and found people's.
Install that PHP page running.
Yeah.
Yeah, probably not a good idea.
And because I attempt to clone stuff to.
Yeah, well, a different directory than I run the install from.
I also remove the get stuff from it.
I probably could just.
Just do a get pull to strike to a directory.
And just use a get ignore file on the some of the stuff I don't want to be written over.
But yeah, I don't do that because my get through is not that great.
And this works for me anyway.
So so yeah, John the directory again and run the up great script because stuff changed again.
And then you should probably start if you're running running with demons,
you should start the demons.
It actually for me, I start the day months as.
And it will basically just run us as the.
A pet you use.
HTTP.
So you so do minus.
Yeah, I use no, I just so do.
And then dot dash start day months.
I want to fork to run us HTTP.
Oh, okay.
I always did the sudo dash you and then put the user's name in and then whatever I want to run.
And it runs as them.
Yeah.
Now when you're on W and you can actually run it as the one you want to run it as the user.
You sound disappointed like I like I left the party now that you're on W.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, you have the pleasure of upgrading every five years or so.
I'll put arch on the digital ocean and I'll give you a root password and you can keep it updated.
I already have you a root password.
Yeah, yeah.
No, but basically that was it for getting getting it migrated over.
Yeah, that's good.
So like I was saying, this blog post I referenced a lot and when it goes about engine X.
And I'm up to this point in your blog, but something is still broken, but I'm sure that's something I did wrong.
Yeah.
I may not have done this second upgrade of the database.
Oh.
So I might.
We mentioned earlier, like, let's talk, let's do an HPR.
We'll talk through this blog and then I'll go and try and, you know, implement all this.
And then we can come back and do another HPR in the future about like problems I had or things that went wrong or might be able to get two HPRs out of this.
Yeah.
And actually, you know, this is from for moving a status net, but I actually use this block for moving all the stuff as well.
Because it's just the PHP directory.
I mean, I run a, I also have a site where I put my photos.
And it's running some PHP stuff as well.
So I moved that around as well.
Just reminded me of Media Goblin.
That's after I moved status net, I have to move Media Goblin, which does not use my SQL, so I can't use this.
And it used MongoDB and I'm still using that.
And at some point in the upgrade cycle, they switched from MongoDB to something else.
And you needed to do, you needed to change the database at that point.
And I didn't.
So that's going to be a whole bunch of other pain I have to go through.
Yeah.
That's why I tried to set it up and too much pain.
And it was easier just installing something that just shows picture.
Because yeah.
I don't recall being a Goblin can do a lot of stuff.
But maybe I got lucky, but.
Yeah.
I'm going to have to do like you discussed in this blog and go.
Somehow back up the database.
Move it over and then clone.
To the original.
I don't know if they're using get or whatever.
Clone back quite a few versions and then step my way up until I get to that conversion script.
Yeah.
But that could be a whole other episode.
Whole other world of pain.
Could be a.
HP are series of pain.
Yeah.
But remember.
Yeah.
But remember.
Pain is just weakness.
Leaving the body.
Oh.
This is how we learn.
Break it first.
Yeah.
That's how we say when we're doing a long distance running.
Every once in a while you say you'll say on status that I'm going running.
I'm going running and I read it sitting on my couch, usually with a beer in my hand.
Is it?
No, I'm not running.
I'm getting fat or I think.
Was there something about a bike and going cycling again?
I know.
I have to get my bike back in order.
I probably just need new tires and I'm ready to go.
So what you say you're going to hack your bike?
Yes.
I'll hack the bike.
I used to like wrenching on the bike.
I built all my bikes up until this one.
You do know what Ken is yelling now.
What's that?
Oh, the one episode on hacking on bikes.
I think John Colbe covered that, didn't he?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't want another one anyways.
Yeah, yeah.
You can't never have enough episodes on bike hacking.
Yeah.
But basically, I actually have a reference for myself as well because it's basically just
the database stuff I can't remember.
Most of the other stuff is just setting up the database and moving stuff.
Depending on what you use, I mean, my photoside runs in PHP and I have a paste bin size as well
as PHP.
That one is actually not even a database.
It's just copying the directory and moving it.
There's another HP.
You got to tell how you set that up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You clone the stuff.
You make a V-host file and you...
No, don't do it now.
You do a whole half hour on it sometimes.
Yeah, yeah.
It's three minutes on how to set up Serubin.
You just talk really slow.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's good for Ken and he doesn't...
When he's speeding up his stuff.
And you'll go back to normal.
Yeah.
Just like on the latest...
Okay, so...
Whatever it's called.
Yeah.
That's 44 minutes.
Yeah.
Should we say our goodbyes?
Yeah.
I think this should be it.
Yeah.
So I will...
I mentioned how I went through the script already and I think I messed something up.
So I'm going to do it again and I'm going to do it until I get it working
and then we'll come back and talk again.
Yeah.
Or...
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, we'll do that.
You want to give some contact info?
Yeah.
I'm...
Serubin.
I'm...
Serubin.
Serubin.
Serubin.
Serubin.
Or Serubin.
Serubin.
Serubin.
Serubin.
Serubin.
Yeah.
And Serubin.
RSC.
Yeah.
And I'm at...
SN.
No, wait.
NYBIL.
SN.
GunMunkInet.net.
Or NYBIL.
I've GunMunkInet.net for email.
Or we have to remember to check the comment section.
Like, keep forgetting about that.
And like, I go back like three weeks later and somebody said something.
And I have to be a little more diligent about checking the HPR comments.
And there's...
There probably should be a...
So you could get notified.
Ah, some type of RSS or something.
Yeah.
RSS or...
You should do an HPR.
You should do an HPR.
How to set that up.
Actually, I think Dave...
Get on it.
Yeah.
Okay.
I'm joking around.
Everything can be an HPR.
So...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at HeckerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hecker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under creative comments,
attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
