Episode: 1961
Title: HPR1961: 2015-2016 HPR New Years Show Episode 1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1961/hpr1961.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 12:22:51

---

This is HPR Episode 1961 entitled HPR New Year's Show Episode 1.
It is hosted by HPR Volunteers and is about 166 minutes long.
The summer is Education, Podcast, Train and Bikes.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hey, Father Finch.
You're more than 50 hours ago in.
Oh, now it's good off to half. I've been hanging around here instead of doing what I ought to do.
You're just avoiding the cold, right?
That too.
But the new place has got to stay pretty warm during the winter.
It's been doing good.
I think it'll be better now. I replaced the filters yesterday evening.
I was not, you know, the heaters haven't replaced the filter.
Have you replaced it since they installed the stuff?
I replaced it last night.
I bet it was all caked with drywall dust and concrete dust, eh?
Yeah, it was pretty bad.
One of the things I died by.
I've been planning to go take a shower since I did that.
So how long are you planning on being around today?
You know, I know you said you weren't going to do the full 36 hours.
Well, I got, you know, there's stuff I got to do this this morning.
I got to go feed.
I've got a funeral to set right after lunch.
I've got a HPR I promised Ken would be done on Monday and ain't done yet.
Well, I mean, I've got, I've got the whole, uh, you know, the script written out.
I just need to sit down record it and then, you know, sit through it and see if it's okay.
So we're not out of shows till next Tuesday.
So I'll get it in by then.
Certainly, Ken, if he's listening.
But, uh, yeah, I meant to get that done by now.
Yeah, I meant to get that done by now.
You know, anybody's on the channel.
You know, since we, you know, we, there were some reserve slots for the New Year shows.
And we decided, well, we don't know how many people are ever going to show up.
We don't want to reserve slots.
So that's kind of, that's kind of put us back a little bit.
So if anybody's got a show that they've been wanting to get uploaded, this would be a good time to do it.
Maybe during my free time tonight, I'll bust one out.
Well, you know, I've had everything on the speaker since we started else.
It was a two o'clock in the morning, something like that.
And between you and me, this is the longest conversation that's been on here since then.
I thought the official announcement wasn't supposed to start until 1 p.m. Eastern.
Well, there were kind of some modifications to that, but I don't really expect anybody jumping into about then.
Yeah, I might work now, so I just thought I'd hop on and listen.
But I'm staring at a screen full of licenses for software and it's making me go bonkers.
What, just to get into a mumble or something else?
No, no, no, this is work related.
I'm trying to upgrade one of our systems, but I have to, well, we have a valid license for it.
We don't have a valid support contract, so we can't upgrade it yet, so I have to open up a case to rectify that.
Tons of fun.
Oh, and that's fun. Whenever you go to your bosses, you know, they don't understand.
Oh, we've been running software we didn't have a license for, and now we actually have to pay for it.
Well, no, this is actually what it was. This is all legitimate.
We had, it's a virtual appliance where we had a pair of them and then to do a seamless upgrade,
we spun up another pair of these same virtual machines, but in a different environment,
moved all of the equipment to that pair of virtual machines,
and then the case that was opened with the vendor to change the licensing never was never completed.
So I'm now dealing with that fallout.
So everything is legitimate. We do have a license.
The old instance is down and gone.
The licensing has been rectified, but the support contract wasn't migrated.
Well, it's just that every boss that I've ever had to deal with figured everything, everything ought to be free.
So, you know, if there was, if there was something came up that need to be paid for, somehow it was my fault.
Yeah, I could, I'm very careful not to do that to jump those surprises on the techamon to begin with.
I remember proposing using something open source here, and they're like, well, that's free, right?
I'm like, no, we would pay $100 annually to support the project to help them continue to be in existence.
If it's providing us help, you know, even that kind of stuff.
You know, I'm not going to use open source and abuse open source or floss software, you know.
Well, now I mean, I'm like that.
I mean, just using proprietary stuff, they always think you ought to be able to, you know, cheat on it or something.
Oh, yeah. We don't see much of that here, but it's spoken of with different companies.
And now Taj is here. It's like old home week.
Hey, what's good, everybody? Hey, Taj, how's it going?
Pretty good, pretty good.
So, have you had a pair of weeks off?
I have. This is, um, we go back Monday.
But yeah, I had last week off and then this week off.
Which is totally cool because I don't have a holiday other than New Year.
I'm tearing this period since it's pretty much just a random two weeks off for me, which is kind of cool.
Yeah, and you guys are full year, right?
Yeah, unfortunately.
So what fun projects have you been working on?
Trying not to die from this cold.
That's been the major project over the two weeks is just don't die.
But that's about it.
Trying to get caught up on stuff has been the primary motivator from the last two weeks.
Yeah, I understand on an educational basis.
You know, the appeal of year round school.
But, you know, as a farm, you know, that stuff is going to scare the crap out of any farmer.
You know, because we need the kid to get kids off for three months to help us on the farm.
Not that I have kids, but I know that's what I did when I was in school.
And frankly, you know, public school, I can't think of anything they taught us in nine months
that they really couldn't have done it in four.
And I mean, unfortunately, the data is in.
Like, most school systems are going to move to year round.
As soon as they can get it to it, I'm sure there are going to be some outliers that, you know, communities where, I don't know.
My school is in farming community.
And apparently they just don't care.
Just doing it anyways.
That just not having time off really helps them retain stuff.
If you're metric for being successful, it's retaining stuff to take a test.
So, I mean, it just depends on what your goal is.
I think there could be a compromise with, you know, a decreased time, you know, having a shorter school day,
but having the continuation of education, where you're not really teaching, you know, as far as a test, but you're keeping children engaged and excited about learning.
Like, I know you were running those special classes to do, what was it, robotics or 3D printing or something like that,
where you were getting kids programming, and they were liking that, right?
I'm sorry.
If it was me in school, I would be at June, I would say, okay, I'll see you in September.
And if you want me back earlier than that, I hope you could outrun a 12 gauge.
Yeah, unfortunately, if a kid misses more than nine school days in my district, the police go and lock their parents up, like literally throw them in jail.
So, a lot of parents aren't willing to do that.
They send their kids, because attendance has become a huge, they just, like, double down on it.
Like, if you don't send your kids to school, they just come to rescue them. They're not playing anymore.
Yeah, I mean, the only problem with, I think there should be either shorter days or something.
Unfortunately, the problem is, is we are already, there are too many people in the community already complaining that teachers don't work, you know, enough hours a day as it is.
So, not having the kids there, I think would, would be another argument that, that would keep it, to keep, there's enough pressure from the society and round to keep us from shortening the days at all.
As a matter of fact, there was a big push this past year to lengthen our day by another half an hour, because the public went to the school board and was complaining that teachers get paid so much and they only work, you know, seven and a half hours a day instead of eight hours a day.
And they wanted that extra half an hour. So, I mean, it's always, somebody wants something. So, a lot of times the decisions we make in education have little to do with what is actually beneficial for the kids.
Right, and you got people that are looking for a full year school system, you know, it's really offsetting the cost that they care.
So, that's why parents are so, get so touchy about shortening the school day or, you know, taking anything away from that, that places burden on them for finding childcare when we have a society that, you know, is built around both parents or if, you know, if you have a single parent situation, you know, the parents working, the kid needs childcare and you have to put some, put that kid somewhere.
Unfortunately, we haven't, we don't have a society where, you know, our elders are with us and can look after the children while, you know, we support both the children and the adults kind of scenario.
And school is kind of taking that place, which is why I should argue that we should have public full day free day care. But, you know, that's, that's my political evenings.
Now, Taj, I've noticed working in schools, you know, in my day, when I was a kid, they used to say, well, the teachers, they spent four or five hours grading papers after school, you know, they're not done when the school day is over.
But, you know, the schools I've worked have gone more and more to, you know, giving these kids these clickers to do multiple choice tests, you know, they throw something up on one projector and then the kids click in their answers and all that.
So, there's a lot, you know, there's a lot more stuff that's computer graded. So, by the end of the day, there isn't that as much stuff for the teachers to go through.
Has that been your experience? Or is it just, you know, is it like it's always been that takes hours and hours to get through all the crap?
Well, it depends. And it depends on how you use assessment. There's, there's two different real kinds of assessment that's from an assessment and some of assessment.
Yes, a lot more things are computer graded, but that only gives me numbers and a lot of times numbers, you know, if a kid gets a problem right wrong, that doesn't tell me what they're doing wrong. It doesn't tell me how to modify mine structure to help them learn something they're not learning.
So, yes, I could be that teacher and trust me, they're plenty of that teacher that just put everything online, have the computer graded and they go home at three o'clock and they're done for the day.
They are pretty terrible teachers as far as I'm concerned. There's still a lot of time where I have to sit down with the kids work and take through the work and figure out, you know, where are they getting the algorithm wrong? What are they doing?
You know, what is the fundamental problem that all the kids are having? You know, what do I need to go back and reteach? How did I teach it? How did I not what did I need to modify to teach it a different way? Why did they not get it?
Things like that all still take time. There's no shortcut to the teaching. Now, do I spend less time looking at papers and whether I read pen and checking things off? Absolutely.
Like just in the 13 years I've been doing it has changed a lot, but I spend more time analyzing that data and making changes to instruction based on that data, which makes it a better teacher, I think.
But some people are going to use it as a shortcut because it's a shortcut. You know, there's always more than enough work to go around.
Some people just ignore that work and move on because they're going to paycheck. Some people actually give it to them and sometimes. Well, I mean, it depends. My clientele, that might be a little difficult for them.
But I definitely like because I'm a math teacher what there's there's certain things where they need to explain to me what they're doing cognitively, whether that's through a checklist or they show me like a flow chart of, you know, the process that they're going through.
I just need to be able to track their thought process because if they're if every kid is getting off on the same spot, that means, okay, I screwed up. There's something when I taught this, there's something wrong with the way I taught that second step.
And we need to go back and recover that. If I just took the data off of whether they got those problems right or wrong, I would never know that.
So it's just sort of there has to be more than just right or wrong. That's why I'm not a gigantic fan of standardized testing because it's usually right or wrong.
So on our state test, we have two different parts. We have the multiple choice part, which counts the most because it's the one that kids can guess the easiest on.
So that's what they count the most and then we have the applied test and the applied test is actually, you know, using the stuff and actually having to think about it.
And most kids bomb that part, that's the one that should be worth more.
We use the multiple choice to inflate our scores because if we didn't, well, I mean, you can see in Indiana, what happened this past year, they, the state, because of all kinds of cluster,
effectiveness, um, change the test last year to make it just insanely difficult. Like there were points where I was sending there with, you know, calculus teachers and geometry teachers and, you know, algebra, two teachers.
And we're sending you reading the questions as people, you know, with master's degrees and math, trying to figure out what the question was asking. And then we're set, turning around handing it to a seventh grader and expecting them to be able to do it.
And the whole state went down like 30 to 40% on I step grades, which is our state test, which has completely messed up the whole every school in our state gets to the letter grade.
And so where I was at a C school last year, we went down significantly. I can't actually talk about what the grade is.
But most of the schools in the state went down a lot to the point where they suspended the letter grading system until after the first three years so they could redo the formulas.
So it wasn't as big as a hit as it looked like. So, you know, test mask.
And of course, why said a hole with the essay test that I was making a joke. I hope you understand. Yeah, I know here in Kansas, they've gone from no child left behind every child gets a leg up or whatever it is. They've, you know, they've renamed it.
I don't know if it's makes any difference once again, getting on my political high horse, which might irritate some people.
But last years I do it alone. As long as businesses make tests and those businesses pay for politicians campaigns, we're going to keep taking tests whether it's beneficial or not and whether we get any actual good data from them or not.
Unfortunately, we get very poor data. It's it's funny. The kinds of tests that we give kids for these big, huge, some of the assessments, you know, of everything that's happened over the year.
The decisions we make on that are not that test that kind of test is not designed for that. We're using the wrong tests for the wrong thing.
And like anybody with, you know, a bachelor's degree in education should know that it's once again not about what the kids need. It's not about making the schools better.
It's about somebody's getting paid for it. And as long as somebody's making money and they control the political process, nothing's going to change. Sorry, guys, I think I killed the stream.
No, not at all. You guys have been the first people in you and a hockey been the first people really in here this morning. And I've been monitoring since it started when I should have just jumped off and gone to bed.
No, beds for losers.
I have more thoughts, but I have to jump on a phone call. So I'll pop back on it a little bit.
So what's going on out in Kansas, 50? Well, I don't know. I did think the other day really what we ought to take an episode of your show.
And just do all the crazy shit that happens in education. Just talk about that.
One of my teaching partners, she's probably going to retire in a couple of years. She's been around for a while. She's fantastic. She's a great teacher.
She's threatened to pay for her retirement by writing a book about all the crazy stuff she's seen.
And I'm pretty sure she could probably make a living off of that.
Just, you know, I mean, better stories that even I haven't been doing it this long, but I've seen some stuff that like,
people would never imagine that a teacher would have to deal with this kind of stuff, but I have to deal with it all the time.
I think if you got you, me and Kevin and Chad together, you know, in one podcast and just talked about all the, you know,
not whether it's open source or free software or whatever, but just all the nutty stuff that teachers have expected us to do over the years.
You know, I think we could come up with one really good podcast.
Oh, yeah, just the tech in Jesus, the summer and stuff that is ridiculous, like just over the top ridiculous that, yeah.
I don't know whether it would be funny or I would just start crying uncontrollably, probably the latter.
Oh, I think all of us could have a good cry. You know, it's just all the, just no understanding of how tech works.
Oh, this is the best one. Okay, so we have this one teacher and God bless her. She, she tries our hardest, but it that way.
She was put in a really terrible situation with her like room. They basically stuck her in her room that was never meant to be a classroom.
She had no white board, so she went got, oh, what's the board that she can get that like they lie in showers with melamine.
Like melamine board from like a home depot and like tacked it to her walls to be, to be like a white board.
So she could at least write on the wall. So she could do some teaching in this room.
So we got Promethean boards that year, but she didn't get one neither did I like a bunch of the basically anybody who taught a special a class didn't get the technology,
which led to a whole different thing that was a fight. But anyways, so the Promethean people were there talking about the Promethean boards.
And they were like, well, even if you don't have a Promethean board, you can use the software and they were showing in the software where you could use the pen to write.
And then it would recognize what you wrote pan writing recognition and change that into like text.
So this teacher once again, love her to death, but sometimes she asked the question if she wrote on her, you know,
janky homemade white board with an expo marker, like a dry erase marker with the computer to be able to recognize that and change the dry erase marker that she wrote on the board into text.
And it was the funniest mom because like the lady there had no idea what to say. She just like stare at her.
And it was like one of those awkward like, oh, oh lord, this is terrible.
Oh, it's funny. Well, we had one teacher, oh, probably, oh, seven, eight years before Promethean came out at, you know, they got a similar thing.
And yeah, I'm sorry whoever typed in the chat. I just got parts of that, something about from Japan. And I don't, I'm not seeing it here on my screen, which is odd.
But is that Rukin? Did you catch any of that, Tosh?
No, the chat just showed that Rukin entered the channel and that's all I have.
Well, okay, I'm getting the same error I've had before on my chat parts as text object too large to display.
So I didn't get a, you know, somebody typed a bunch of stuff in the channel. I didn't, you know, I didn't get. So I'm sorry.
He's been in.
And I take, well, thank you to your join us, but he's put in the chat that he doesn't have a mic right now.
Just yell really loud at the computer, it'll come through.
We can talk to you.
This is there. I had the other day, the text object too large to display. I don't know. I was in the chat on, on Tilt's last night.
And I would say, you know, stuff was pasted in the chat. I was able to, you know, copy and paste. So I'm not sure what causes this.
User error, question mark.
Okay, Rukin is saying he can't hear the live string.
That's funny. OpenSus question mark, question mark.
Possibly. I haven't used openSus of years. It could be awesome. It wasn't the last time I tried to use it, but it could be.
I just can't get my brain around RPM based baggage management. I'm sure it's awesome. Just not archer didn't happen.
Yeah, I'm running openSus on this machine right now. So maybe that's a problem, but somebody jumped into the
Linux floodcast discussion saying that they were doing a port of openSus that supported or codex. That's kind of, that's a problem I've had.
I've since the song OpenSus VLC won't open everything like I'm like I expected to. So I'm going to be very interested in looking at this port.
Yeah, the guy put up on the on Linux floodcast mailing list. He just name is Sam and it's Gecko Linux Gecko Linux dot GitHub dot IO.
So I'm very interested in looking at that because I've got leap 42, but you know, like like I said, I'm not able to open as many media files as I would like.
I'm interested if I can migrate from leap to Gecko.
Yeah, I should probably try it again, at least though in the VM and take it for a spin or not. I don't know. I'm very happy with arch. So I don't think I need to go anywhere.
It seems to be happening more and more and more. Firefox just not doing what it's supposed to. Somebody else knows that like Firefox just seems to be going downhill.
Well, again, I thought maybe that was an OpenSusa thing. Firefox and OpenSusa. There's Oh, you know, things are probably flash or whatever on Facebook.
A lot of times they won't open and similar things on G plus doesn't seem to want to open now.
YouTube everything seems to work, but yeah, I've had trouble with video various places and Firefox.
I'm just talking about like working as a web browser. I've just had it nope on me a lot recently.
And it's always like my secondary like because my school does Chromebooks. Everything I do is in Chrome most of the time just because it sinks and everything works.
But a lot of times I use well, even like tour browsers, something like that. It's Firefox based.
You know, so it's like I always try to use Firefox because I want to use it because it's not Google. You know what I'm saying, but it just doesn't work as well anymore.
So I don't know. It's weird. Well, I installed for Valdi a week ago when they talked about it on Filts and I've been playing with it a little.
Here's my only problem with Valdi. The fact that anytime anyone asks them to ask them anything about licenses, they refuse to answer.
They're like, well, we're going to keep it open, but they refuse to codify that in a license like I'm not even going there until they say this is open source or free software.
And it's going to remain that by licensing it one of those ways. I'm not using it.
It's just open source or didn't happen. I'm basically that point with everything. And I can see that's got a lot of nice features that eventually decided to make a proprietary, which would make me extremely angry.
No, I feel you there. They did seem evasive when they were talking about it. And they do seem to be their priority is not the Linux version.
I mean, I'm a free software guy. So like, obviously, I think everything should be GPL, but I understand there are people who don't agree with that. And I'm then that's fine. Maybe like a BSD license or something. Just make it open source.
Because I mean, what browsers are not open source besides Microsoft scrap. Like, what is the benefit of not being open source other than other people can steal what they're doing, put it in the layers.
So like, I don't know. And I can't imagine there's enough money in search revenue to make you be that protective of it. I don't know. It's just it's just weird. They just seem awfully evasive about it.
And they're like, oh, we're going to leave it open. But then when you push them on anything that has to do with the license, they're like, uh, uh, uh.
Well, their search is being reason number one. I'm not using it.
Well, I was hoping, uh, honky would come back because, uh, you know, I'm at the point where I really am going to have to go do other things.
Well, I guess I'm here for right now. So if you got to take off, uh, all babysit for a little bit.
Well, yeah. But, you know, talking to yourself is not going to be very interesting.
You've obviously not heard me have conversations with myself. I think I'm very fascinating.
Well, all right, Todd. I'll leave it to you then for a while.
I'll put thing on speaker. And so I'll be able to hear stuff. But, uh, yeah, I'm going to have to drop out of conversation probably till long after lunch.
All right. And then, like I said, I'll hang out for a bit. And, uh, hopefully, you know, somebody comes back and we'll keep it going.
Well, good morning, Ken Fallon. Can your lips lit up? But no sound came through.
There was something you were thinking it was. No, this is Mr. Grash. What's up? How's it going?
Just trying to make sure my mic's working. That's all. It is currently working. Yeah, that's Texas. Yeah, it gets kind of annoying after a while.
I do want to go ahead and put in a room that, uh, Regie joined on the chat.
He doesn't have a mic right now, but he is saying hello from one room in Georgia.
Apparently it's a raining morning down south in the United States.
A little further north, not too much right on the line between Indiana and Kentucky.
And it is not raining, but it is cold, which is odd because it hasn't been cold yet.
So it's it's a welcome cold. We've been unseasonably almost scarily unseasonably warm.
So thanks for dropping in, Regie.
Yeah, 70s are 80s for a couple weeks and it hasn't been that warm.
But it's been in the 70s. High 60s, low 70s, which typically this time of year we're in the snow.
This time last year we were hovering below zero. So Fahrenheit for all those not in America, which I don't know what that means.
It's Celsius. I should know, but I don't.
Yeah, so 70s and 80s is kind of warm. I don't know if that's typical for Georgia this time of year, but it's it's been warm here.
So I wouldn't mind a little snow just to like, you know, resetting nature.
I've heard some stories about people around here that snakes are coming back out because it hasn't gotten cold enough and I hate snakes.
Let's freeze them back for the winter. That would be cool.
And zero Fahrenheit is minus 17. So thank you for helping me out with that.
Dr. Go is your friend.
Anyway, it is now 1612 Zulu time 1712 where I am. I'm tired. I'm going to this work. How are you all?
Pretty good. Got up. Took my wife to town. So she could go to physical therapy. Got breakfast and came home. Got on the strength. So everything seems to be going all right.
Excellent. Is that a permanent hanger? Will it end that particular point? Is that two personal questions?
No, not at all. We're hoping it will end.
She actually fell earlier this year and she broke her humorous right at the shoulder joint.
So they had to go in and basically she kind of has like a cyborg shoulder now. It's kind of cool.
It looks like something out of terminator. But she has very little mobility in it.
It's kind of seized up on her through that so they're putting her physical therapy to get back range of motion on it.
She's been going for a couple months. So I mean, I we've got a while before she'll be done with it.
But they they seem to think she'll get most of her mobility back. So that's good.
Yes, often difficult to say. Hopefully you'll work out.
Yes, and as a public service announcement, this is why all stared railings.
If you if you have stairs that don't have railings, no matter what puts them railings up, it'd be good for you.
I'm pretty sure after this experience, I could probably convince her to walk around wearing football pads all the time just so it didn't happen again.
Yeah, so it's been busy in here.
Earlier was 50 and I and Father French kind of hanging out and then they had to drop out.
So I'm just kind of babysitting until somebody gets back. But we had a couple good conversations.
But there was a nice big gap where nobody was here with me, I think.
Trunkhead silence is excellent. I can barely hear you. Is that just me or is it a volume?
And I was pretty low for me as well. I didn't catch what he said.
It looks jam just sent in a show, John Cope sent in a show and Dave Mars.
So I've been trying to send in the next audio book club episode and it keeps no being on me.
Do you know what's going on, Ken?
The FTP.
I was doing it off the upload from the site. I don't know if that back end is the FTP or not.
No, that is a HCTP. So I shouldn't cause a problem. Let me have a look.
Yeah, it's bouncing me out. It's a workout twice doing it.
I know the first time you emailed me about it in a second time. I did it.
I just haven't had time to sit and I'm going to do it. I might do it right now since you're on the line.
Am I any louder now or is it still the same?
It's a little bit.
Yeah, much clearer.
Well, I need to go from Feaster Fanon to the really quiet, a really overpowering loud.
So I try to keep it low.
Well, it's perfect now. Can't seem to get into the server.
So Kevin, are you a worker? You just playing the strong silent type today?
Are you asking me?
No, Kevin. He's been on here.
Oh, okay. He's just been on here, but he's been in chat.
He's not talking. I'm just trying to figure out what was going on.
Oh, Kevin, wait for you.
Okay. Got it.
I thought that he was in there with a robust recording.
Actually, no, he's not.
I've got pardon to the reservations table.
I've only got one, two, three, two shows from John and two shows from Dave.
Ready to be processed.
All right. I'm going to try to re-upload it and see what happens.
Yeah. So this is actually no harm for people to know.
If you, you need to do it from the same computer, same session at the same time,
and do them one at a time, if you do multiple shows, that makes it a lot easier.
If anything goes wrong, every single error check that I have has a MD5 hash of the error code,
it just a random error code.
And if you send that to me, I'll be able to identify what it was.
Usually, it's that you press the back button and then go forward again,
which generates a new entry and then all the better off.
I'm going to set it up as its own window and just for to set on another desktop and let it run and see what happens.
So I've got the email whenever you've just uploaded a show
or you've gone to the request page.
It's now sent you an email and it sends a link.
This is more for anybody who's listening rather than you.
So you got a link with the key equals and a big long string of text.
And if you click that, you get to the page.
And then once you go to the page, once you go to the page,
so now you're requesting episode number 1943.
And at that particular point in time, I've got your IP address tracked.
And then once you go to the website itself, even once,
it will put a verify that you've gone to the link, which you've done.
So I now know that you've gone to the link.
And I know you haven't finished filling in the show because your IP address is still there.
Once you've finished filling in the show or you get rid of the IP address that you use to upload,
I don't want to keep stuck around.
So basically at this point, that's proven that your email address works because if you click on that,
it's gone out of the entry to the database.
Yeah, I've gotten to this point both times before.
It usually goes all the way through the upload.
And then once it hits 100%, it's like, no.
So like I said, I'm trying this again to see what happens.
How big is the file that you're uploading?
It's a good question. Let me find out.
Not that I don't think we're limiting.
Maybe since the server has been moved, there is a limit on.
Josh had to move the server real quick.
Some of the things may not have moved over as perfectly as we'd like.
I'll tell you this, it's like almost three hours long.
And so it's probably pretty big.
You know us, audio bug guys, we talk a lot.
No, that's fair enough. You've had three hours shows before uploaded that way.
But it might be an idea to select upload VFTP then.
And then just upload a VFTP that way.
If anything happens as you're uploading it and your failed software through,
you can set your FTP client to reconnect and try without having to re-upload the whole lot.
It's just an idea.
I'm fine doing that.
I just need somebody to send me the FTP goods so I can get in.
Well, if you, on the very bottom of the upload page, if you select,
if you select option for something, option three,
it'll just send you an email with the username and password.
Could it be simpler?
Yes, it could be a lot simpler, but unfortunately,
I also need to do a lot of checks because one area of stuff on nice, next one.
We don't need any exploits. That would not be good.
It was probably a few there, but I'm going to be changing the FTP upload workflow
so that you'll need to fill in a MD5 sum of the file that you're sending
before we accept your show if you're either taking it via FTP
or putting it on your own website and sending us a URL where we can download it from.
We'll need the MD5 checks on that way.
We can verify that the media is what it is.
That has been completely finished on your site.
So the problem with the advantage of uploading the VFTP is that once it's done,
I know it's finished uploading on your site because it's sent me all the bits,
so I don't need to check it.
Whereas if you send the VFTP, you get sent later on and you might have started
you being one, an uploader might have started during the night.
And then I come in in the morning, my time, a few hours later,
and that's still uploading, and then I post half a show as a pain
and then the down to everybody again on big pain.
And so an MD5 sum is a good way to confirm that the file
has been the same one that has been sent in the space given.
We use that and work.
Okay, so just to verify, I've got everything and it says to upload VFTP,
leave a upload option one and two empty.
So if I hit submit, it'll send me the stuff.
Yep, that's the bunny.
Oh, I dig it.
Yes, it did because it just sent you an email, including my home address.
We won't talk about that.
Yeah, that's fine.
Anybody with who is in a brainseller, too, can identify my house.
But yes, so basically upload it to the FTP server,
started with the HPR 1943 in your case.
And the best thing to do is drop me, just do a reply all to this email
that you receive the confirmation email when you're finished uploading it to the FTP server.
And then I'll just hold off and processing it until that point in.
Yep.
It just sounds ignorant.
But what room is this for?
For what project?
This is for hacker public radio, the longest running tech community podcast network on the
internet, which you'll find that hacker public radio dot org over MIRD,
or if you've got a firewall blocking you, hobby public radio dot org,
which is brilliant because I have to use that at work.
I'm very glad that you've done that.
No problem.
I am interested if you are in contact with your IT department,
they blocked it in my work as well.
And I contacted the IT department saying they have blocked it.
And they put me in touch with the firewall provider.
And I contacted the firewall vendor and explained this is the longest running tech podcast on the internet.
And I'd like to know why you blocked it.
Surely it can be as simple as having the word hacker in the title.
And I got an apology back saying that we're removing it from the list.
So please keep me informed about any websites that are being blocked by anybody.
And I will contact their domain owners, their peer relations people,
and inform them that they're blocking a legitimate educational website.
Yeah, I work at the school.
And so basically they just block anything that says hackers,
which is kind of ridiculous.
But I've had that fight several times with our district tech guy.
And I don't think it's going anywhere.
But usually I have the ability to unlock certain things.
So if a kid needs something, I usually unlock it for him and let him go through.
Or I just happen to throw a proxy on a piece of paper and throw it at them and say,
here, go through this.
Well, don't break the policies of the organizations that you work for either.
That's why I'd like to get a rectify that source.
You know, if you can contact, you know, if there's a district person,
and I can write to them directly as a person on the internet,
you know, a real person with a real address at stations is a community project
and we've interviewed all these people.
It's a resource for their students.
And please consider on blocking us in the most polite terms possible.
I know they're still working out, but we still get around that work
still in that by tapping in the address, the ID address website.
Yeah, it doesn't work that much.
If there's any other sites been hosted on that website on the portion of it.
I know one of the things that we struggle with is if you provide internet.
And this is a statewide day.
If we take federal money and we provide internet to our students, which we do,
there's certain legal requirements about the firewall that we have to follow.
And I'm not sure what that is.
So that could be another stuff.
That's exactly why I'd like to do it in a formal way that you know,
if it will be a slow challenge to do that,
but the advantage of doing that of going through the proper channels
is that it becomes unlocked for everybody or not.
That's a case, maybe.
Which is why hobby public radio works great.
So there's nothing to block that.
Or at least I'm not saying anything to block that.
So that works out great.
And come across a podcast here.
You listen to a lot of shows?
Yeah, I do. I work nights.
So I have a tendency to listen to a ton of shows.
Everything from the stuff from Twitter to YouTube broadcasting guys.
What are the names of our podcasts here every day?
Be warned.
The amount of shows we have is a lot.
And they go back 10 years.
So quite a lot of shows and the topics are varied.
Our guideline is anything that's of interest to hackers.
And that's very, very broad statement right there.
And I would say the thing that got me over to the initial barrier of not only
listening to it, but being a contributor is be totally cool at
deleting things that are not interesting.
Don't feel like you have to listen to every episode.
Although I find that 90% of the time I've listened to whatever it is.
Because I find things interesting that I wouldn't think I would find interesting.
But HPR is definitely a everyday listen for me.
So it's a good, it's a good show.
Not that I, you know, have any bias against it because I happen to host that.
So it's every once in a while.
I happen to absolutely anybody.
So anyone who wants can submit a show.
So basically if you've got the most traditional first time shows,
like an introduction to yourself,
how you kind of got into podcasting Linux or tech or whatever,
you know, your first computer blah, blah, blah, blah.
If you get past that one, another show of people like to do is there,
you know, what's in their toolkit, you know, either what's in your Rooksack
or your toolbox or your apps that you're installed on your computer stuff like that.
Actually, one that's been popular recently is what's in your pod catcher,
which if you listen to a lot of shows, that could be really interesting.
Yeah, actually we have a, if you go to the get shows and series section on the website,
then there's, you can scroll down to podcast.
And then there's a whole list of podcasts that you can subscribe to.
You should also go to thelinuxlink.net,
which is a list of all the tech podcasts that you, that you can get.
And it's maintained by Dan Wash go from thelinuxlink tech show.
Yeah, one of the ones I've been wanting to do, there'll be a series,
because I can't do them all at once is what YouTube channels do I listen to?
Yeah, and I'm working on that one as well.
My next tip of the way on that X1101,
because he wanted to know about, he wants to build his own 3D printer.
So he wanted to, somebody like talk with, he wanted to talk with somebody
and like figure out what kind of printer to print and stuff.
And so I'm just kind of waiting on him.
I'm trying to get work, put a hack space in.
Yes, most 3D printers used to GGO.
At least on board, a lot of your proprietary ones will use some other format
that their slicer eventually turns into GGO, which is kind of nice,
because my, you know, I can run my CNC.
I can run my 3D printer, and it's all the same language.
So it's pretty nice.
Yeah, Taj, I think Tank was trying to say something.
Yeah, that's actually who I'm responding to.
Yes, I have a CNC that I built.
It's just a three axis.
It's nothing like fantastic.
Although I would love to have like a giant six axis that would be amazing,
but it's a little beyond my capabilities.
Now, I don't have a mill, but to be completely honest,
the types of things I'm doing, I can use the CNC to mill.
You know, change out the head on the CNC and mill out the little things I need.
Just in not to introduce what to finish off,
I was running the query in the background about the number of the amount of time.
Sorry, HPR has 42 days worth 11 hours, 4 minutes, and 12 seconds of shows.
So if you were to start now, you would not be finished listening until February 2, 2016, 24 hours a day.
Well, I'm glad I got an early start then.
My father, Gramp Bruder, his home father, father enough.
He's got the offer of somebody in his church is going into a retirement home
and he has a fully kit without shed with CNC machines,
lads, hammer radios, the works.
And he's asking me if I wanted to say yes, just say yes.
Yeah, absolutely.
You don't think I think you're excuse.
I think you're excuse.
I'm sorry.
I think you're excuse last year was you didn't have a headset.
Do we need to do a fundraiser?
We ordered it now, be there by this time the show ends.
No, I think there needs to be more people on Hacker Public Radio than Renaham Radio.
I feel like there's only a couple of us that do anything am related.
And that is like the biggest hacker thing.
I think it's just not many people into it.
I think it's the exam that puts people off.
It's what's putting me off, actually.
The mats, especially, not that the mats are significant heavier.
Yeah, I think I've just calculated or something scares me.
You know, going back physically, having to pass an exam,
whereas other things you can just hobby about.
You know what I mean?
It's a feeling that somebody has to give you permission to do it.
I can go on a ramp of why I don't think anybody I should have to take a test to utilize the laws of nature.
But I understand why they do it, but I'm not.
I mean, I don't know you're in the Netherlands, right?
You are.
I don't know what the test is like over there, but I know the test here is like so ridiculously easy.
Like I could I could literally take my eight year old and with the day she could probably pass it.
Yeah, they they have two classes here.
The end novice and the F for full and the novice license is yeah, it's pretty easy.
I think I can pass that, but I actually wanted to study for the F license, which is the full one.
And you know, that gets pretty pretty advanced.
I think it's your it's the equivalent of your highest without a morse.
So an extra class would be actually none of our tests require morse code anymore.
So that's nice, but you can still do it, but not here.
Some of the hands here go to the UK to get their CW license.
I've always been to get together for friend, maybe to do a episode because he's old school.
He's got a whole bunch of old tube radios, you know, on his ham set, nothing modern.
So what I ought to get, I ought to get together with him and do a show and rocking at old school.
Hey, exactly.
And you know, I'm not allowed to say you owe me a show and tell, of course, you say I'm going to send you in the show.
So now you want me to show my license part of about 15 years ago.
It's just a tackle license.
So I was actually happy that the all the morse code stuff.
I think it makes it easier for people to get in in California, where I was from originally.
The hammer idea thing was dying out.
I think that's one way to get it back.
Thinking of it easier for me.
Yeah.
As I said, I was thinking of doing my F, but I just think I'm going to start doing the novice one getting my hands on some stuff because.
Yeah, just waiting round.
Just do the novice exam and you can always do the old one later.
And also we're not allowed to, I think who was it off from your radio on one stage?
Was it Kevin or were not allowed to own a radio here?
Unless you've got a license, you know,
what about like, so could you get like an RTL SDR or something like that that would receive transmissions without broadcasting?
If it's capable of transmitting, then you're not allowed to have it.
You're not even allowed to have it plugged in.
You're not allowed to have it in the house, even if it's not plugged in.
Although I think if there's physically no power supply in it or something like that,
it's physically cannot be accidentally plugged in. You're okay.
But you can't, if you're repairing them, you can get a license to repair radios, transport radios for repair.
I mean, again, who the hell is going to know, you know, if you don't turn it off, but that's the law.
Where are you?
I mean, it's in the Netherlands. Can't you tell from my Dutch accent?
I'm an American, where are you? I'm not sure what every speak.
No, that's not fair.
The first thing struck me when I went to America was how many accents there are and, you know,
walking to the airport, you can hear various different regions.
And when you go to America, you realize as European how big the country is and you go, okay, well, yeah.
Do I really know all the countries and states, you know, as far over as Kazakhstan, you know, give yourselves a break?
That's okay. Most people in the States couldn't tell you what every state in the United States is.
So, you know, it is what it is.
Most of them will tell you that the city they live in is the state they are.
I haven't asked you for that. I've actually heard people say that, which I'll tell you the name of their city,
is the name of their state.
And we all think everybody can understand this if we speak American loud enough.
Yeah, you probably can because it's actually easier.
A lot of Europeans will have more problem with my accent than they will with an American accent,
because they're just not used to hearing anything.
My sister-in-law who came from England, she really struggled with our accent along.
And I know people on this network struggled with my accent.
Oh, I've had your accent.
Yes, it was you, wasn't it?
I mean, there are some British podcasts that,
and they don't have real good sound quality.
Everybody talks at once, and those sometimes are really hard for me to concentrate on,
especially, you know, if I'm in a moving vehicle or whatever.
If I'm sitting in front of the computer, yeah, that's one thing.
But most of my time listening to podcasts, I'm in a vehicle or tractor or combiner, whatever.
So those, but no, Ken, your accent never gives me a bit of trouble.
Yeah, but you've been listening to this for 10 years.
And I need to be fair.
Like when I say that I can't understand your voice or your accent or your voice or your accent,
it's because I'm listening to everything at three times speed,
and I might have just loaded down to 2.5.
I mean, it's not that bad.
I mean, most people can't even pronounce my name.
So it's okay.
I'm going to have to listen to a shadowy figure's show tomorrow looking forward to that.
Yeah, me too. I love the last one.
I really love that whole genre.
You know, the tall barn walks past my window.
I knew she was tall.
I was on the 64th rang.
That was odd.
I didn't have a guy walks into a bar.
It hurt.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I'm here all night, folks.
Actually, I'm not, no.
But actually, I am because I have to stay up with the kids.
Try the fish.
Anyways, processing shows.
That's what we do.
Who's up?
That was a threatening to do.
Let me see a mumble.
Who are we talking to that had not heard of HBR before?
Tankinator?
No, Mr. Crash.
Okay.
Mr. Crash, that is a good name.
Good humble.
Is it real now?
Yeah, that was one thing really shocked me last year at Kansas Linux Fest.
I guess we're not getting the not not HPR, but just the I don't know how to say the hobbyist.
Linux podcast because there are a lot of people.
They knew the networks.
You know, they knew they knew the Twitter network and they knew Jupiter broadcasting.
But outside of that, they didn't they didn't know from any Linux podcast.
That and that actually is quite sad because a lot of the you know, when things started off,
you had the logo radio and TLLTS and you know, the TLL logo radio come up when I started listening to podcast.
That was the first one.
And they were, they would always promote all the podcasts.
So I heard Ben saying, slagging off the Linux link tech show for a while.
And those guys have always, always, always promoted other shows.
It's a great way to spend out there.
Well, it's your everyday listener.
It's fun.
My end of the deal is.
Sorry.
It's funny.
You guys on, just on the on the apps and the list.
So if it doesn't come up, we haven't seen not defined it.
So I found different ones out of just trial on there.
It's funny.
You guys talk about a radio and it's, it's like what generation of Linux podcast did you,
like when did you come in to the stream?
Yeah.
Like I was after that.
But I think everybody after that was Linux outlaws.
Yeah.
Because like radio crashed and then I came in with Linux outlaws and then that led me to HPR and all that.
So it's just interesting.
You can date when you came into the community by that.
Exactly.
Don't forget Linux reality.
Yeah, I was in Linux outlaws.
My first was the techie geek.
I mean, when I finally got broadband a few years ago or what I laughingly called broadband and could finally start downloading podcasts.
You know, I searched for like two weeks and couldn't come across.
You know, I was interested in Linux.
I wanted it.
I wanted to learn more about it and I kept I kept doing research.
And the closest I came was these like three London guys who, you know, got absolutely faced and talked about Ruby on rails.
And it was like, you know, it's sure.
You know, yeah, it was, you know, I enjoyed the podcast.
They were very, very entertaining.
But, you know, since I didn't know anything about Ruby, I thought surely there's got to be something better.
And I think I came across the techie geek a day or two later.
And then from that, of course, he talked about everybody else.
He talked about HPR.
He talked about Linux outlaws.
So that just opened up the whole, you know, spectrum for me.
Yeah, exactly.
I remember that day, you know, when, when you fall, you hit the goldmine and you, oh my god, look at all these shows.
They're just listening to all the shows going back, listening to all the original shows as well.
What was funny was the first TLL TS show that I listened to was they was the one on the, their first joke on Windows.
Windows weekly or something.
They have what sort of a Linux podcast is this?
Volume gun, volume gun.
Honky or way low?
God, the irony of 51.50.
Do I need to adjust or am I okay?
No, no, the irony of you criticizing somebody's audio.
Well, I'm on mobile and I'm losing my voice at the same time.
So that might have something to do with it.
I'll do it all right.
I wasn't criticizing.
I was just saying there was adjustment, perhaps necessary.
But Ken, didn't you have a, on your website, some, a list of podcasts of open source podcasts?
Yes.
If you go to, which webs, my own personal website, no, but on Hacker Public Radio, there is, if you go to hackerpublicradio.org or hobbypublicradio.org,
and then go to complete episode guide.
Actually, don't do that.
Go to in-depth series.
So get shows in-depth series.
I'll give you a list of open source podcasts.
Under there, you'll find podcast recommendations.
Maybe that's what I found.
Yeah.
I'll paste it into the chat.
It's hackerpublicradio.org, series.php, question mark, ID equals 75.
I know that's not the most ideal URL in the world, but there you are.
I want to say several years back.
I want to say several years back what I did was just a Google search for either Linux podcast or something like that.
And I found some list that I thought you would put together.
And just a bunch.
And I just kind of went through and tried to find what was still active.
And then added them to my RSS feeds.
Oh, yeah.
That was ages ago.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I do actually put a list together.
See, I started listening to HPR back in like the 200s.
And at that time, yeah, I could go back and listen all of them.
But you're right, Ken.
That would be kind of a task today for somebody starting off.
Yeah.
Somebody's working night shifts.
Someone to do it.
There are people who do do it because nearly half of the downloads every month.
There's always somebody going back downloading the other shows and they are downloading them.
They're completely finished downloading.
And those people, if you are doing that, be sure to, yeah, write us notes and update the show notes and say this show is still relevant.
Or this is, you know, an archive show.
It's probably not as relevant anymore.
Well, I've gone back.
We are doing an exercise of updating all the old shows and trying to keep them, keep them at the show notes and not the tags and stuff like that.
I think at the time, I went back, listened to all the techie geeks and all the Linux outlaws,
tilts though, those guys have been going so long.
That's the one I didn't even try to go back.
Yeah, that'd be hard.
I was able to do it at the time, but well, doing it now, that would be tough.
So what I've learned from this conversation is, no, what I've learned from this conversation is that I need to go like put my podcast on like all the podcast.
In intermediaries like iTunes or the Google podcast or whatever, so people can find it.
I don't know. I guess I just always find podcasts like Googling websites and then just pulling their RSS feed.
Maybe I'm weird like that.
And see, I just realized the other day, you know, we're going to hit 2000 and 2048 later this year.
And I figured, man, what didn't we just do with 1000 and 1024 yesterday?
Yeah.
Now, talk, have you ever put a promo together for your podcast?
I barely record podcasts.
Like I got time for a promo.
No, I haven't.
I should. That would be nice.
I guess I know some people who run a podcast that might run a promo.
I mean, that's the thing we could happen.
Well, make sure it gets included on HPR as well.
What's what show is this?
It is the open ed tech podcast.
It's basically looking at free and open source technologies and philosophy and how that impacts education.
Can you put that into the mobile chat, please?
Yes.
And while we're on the subject of chat, Kevin Wissier is trying to get you to check the IRC.
IRC or check IRC.
Okay, one sec.
I'm below you.
Tadlow.
My mumble audio is Tadlow, he says.
My mumble audio should now be higher.
And the mumble, how to is on the website.
Kevin, one second.
Processing.
Now, Taj, with how are things going with the job?
They're going.
I am definitely finishing this year at the school my mad after that all bets are off.
I don't know whether I'm going to try to find another district to move to that is less ridiculous or whether I'm just going to go ahead and finish my doctorate.
I'm not sure what I'm going to do.
Do you know if your thesis was approved yet or not?
Actually, yes.
So I'm like 75% of the way done with that.
So basically, actually, next week, I collect all the data and just do the statistical analysis on all that data, which is, you know, I just wrote all the statistics in R.
So it'll just run through it and do it for me.
Write it up, stick it in the thesis, and then submit it.
And then I'll have to defend it later this spring, but other than that, yeah, the thesis is done.
So that will be nice.
Are you pushing to no matter what, continue teaching?
Yes.
I do not really want to leave teaching.
The only thing that would push me to teaching right now is just financially being a teacher and actually being able to, you know, support a family because both my wife and I are both teachers.
And especially in the state we're in now, it's just it's really difficult.
Next year, I'm taking just walking through the door.
I'm taking a $4,000 a year pay cut and they can do that every year if they want to.
So there are states that have a little bit better protections, which is something we're looking at.
But for right now, I know I want to finish the rest of the year because I've already sounded contract and it's kind of shady to walk out halfway through the year and doesn't look good.
It's not good for the kids.
Ultimately, I kind of put my people name on a piece of paper.
It's kind of dishonorable to walk out now.
Finish up this year and see what happens.
It could be I go back next year and they may.
May not be able to find anything, but you know, it's it's definitely all up in a year for me right now.
Definitely sounds like a rough situation and the way you were describing the the full system and what they do and stuff that just.
That sounds like a.
I was just talking to myself for what, but I thought I hit the push to talk.
Yeah, and that's that's rough because you seem very passionate when it comes to the teaching.
Well, ultimately, I think the the problems once again, political sub box, but the problems with education in this state have very little to do with schools themselves.
Some of it is the schools, but as far as like, I know my district admin would love to be able to do what they need to do to make sure we're taking care of and put us in the best situation possible.
I don't feel that they're actively against us.
I feel that there's state legislative things that have put pressures on them to where the only thing they can do.
They're back to require the only thing they can do is what they're doing and I don't hold any ill will towards them.
I just think the political situation in my state makes it extremely difficult for a public school to run and be effective.
Well, you know, you know me, I'm a conservative right to work type percentage, but you know, in your situation where it's understood, you know, across the industry, that if you go out and achieve a higher level of education, that you're going to be compensated for it.
And then, you know, after you've already started on that course, they just junk, you know, jerk the rug out from under you. That's, you know, that's just not right.
Well, that is what it is. I mean, if that's the way they want to be, that's fine.
I just think we're already seeing and it typically, like for me, it hurts because my daughter goes to public schools in the state because, you know, I'm a public school teacher.
My wife is a private school teacher. I will tell you she makes more than me and she works three days a week where I work five days a week.
So that tells you kind of where things are in the state, but it's if that's the rules of playing with that's fine.
I don't have a problem with it. It's just it's going to force people out. It already has. I mean, our state couldn't fill 30% of the teaching positions this past year.
There were not enough people graduating out of the system to fill the holes that were left.
And people were refusing to move into the state because of how bad it is.
Guys, I need to go back in sometime.
And I guess that's the way you just later can guess us. We're supplying demand is supposed to work. I mean, they'll, you know, when they can't run their schools, they'll find they'll find out they got to do something different.
And I think that's starting to happen.
There are some changes in the state legislature that after this past year after seeing the test scores go down so much and seeing that they can't fill positions and that they're going to unit that they're literally going to universities and they're finding, you know, sophomores and saying, hey, we will give you a job now.
If you take an emergency license and go, I mean, so they're putting lots of unskilled teachers in the classroom just to get bodies there that they've got to change something that the path they're on is not working.
I mean, frankly, I'm not, I'm not trying to be like a autistic one saying, you know, I'm awesome. And this is the way it has to be, but people will only work for so much.
And if it's more advantageous to go somewhere else, they will. And you're right. It's applied demand.
Other states very close to me within, you know, like 10 minutes. Don't do this to their teachers. So why would I not go across the line and teach over there?
So that's, that's, you know, options. There's lots of options going on.
Well, I saw in the paper the other day is fluke because I don't usually look at the local paper, but one of my first jobs out of school was teaching night courses at the local junior college.
And I saw a thing. There was a state mandate that it come out that only people with masters degrees could teach it to Juco.
And second, well, you know, good luck with that finding people to teach them.
No, they won't have a problem.
There are so many people. Well, maybe it's just my, my field, and I know my wife's field.
There are so many people out there with masters degrees that can't find a job that will pay enough to pay back their student loans that they'll take anything.
I know my wife teaches at the local, it's not a community college. It's a satellite college for any university. So I mean, it's, it's, they've got dorms.
I mean, it's a fairly large college. It just happens to be in southern Indiana, the blue and you know, she's taking, she's teaching a class there, which is not, not paid, does not pay well.
But she took it because it's extra money. I mean, she has a master's degree and it's anything, anything that will help make that student loan payment at the end of the month.
It is important. I mean, just between the two of us, just with our student loan debt, we're paying $1,200 a month just in student loans, which is, you know, getting close to double what our rent is.
So it's a problem.
It was fortunate enough to go to school the time when you wrote the check for the semester and well, my, my parents did support me, of course, you know, but it's nothing like it is now what you guys had to go through.
Yeah, basically, I'm from both my wife and me. It was, we turned 18 and if we wanted to go to college, we were on our own. So, you know, we both worked full time. We both had full time jobs while we were in school and worked our way through it. I'm still, I mean, I'm still in school. I'm still working full time.
But there's just not, you cannot pay for that amount of debt. It's ridiculous.
Well, it's not, it's, it's not like you're getting more education, commiserate with the inflation in the price. It's just silly.
No, but it's a, it's a barrier entry.
I don't know if we're supposed to be family safe.
So I'm going to keep it cool. It's just like how many hoops will you jump through to get a job and to get any kind of job where you're going to make any kind of money that's going to help you with this.
You've got to have a split in my field. You have to have a master's degree period. I mean, you just have to. It's not a doctorate.
But then, you know, you get out and start, starting teacher pay. And I mean, this is starting teachers isn't what I make.
It's not very far off from what I make. It's 30 grand. So, I mean, which isn't bad. But, you know, it's, it's, it's difficult to do that.
And, you know, pay your bills and live comfortably. I mean, you could do it. I mean, obviously we're doing it. It's not hard.
It's just not having to worry about it as much would be nice.
Yeah, Tosh. This is, hey, we can hear you.
How's it coming through?
Maybe a little low, but pretty good.
I was going to ask you to fetch it. Is the amount of education required really commensurate with the skill level and what you need to teach?
For, for what I do specifically, I think yes. I think anybody doing my job that doesn't at least have a master's degree probably is missing some stuff.
But that's very specific to what I do as far as general classroom teacher now. I think most, most people as long as they know their content area.
One of the big problems we have is that we've got a lot of teachers that come out of their undergrad program.
And they've spent four years learning how to be a teacher, but they've learned nothing about their content area.
So, you know, you got math teachers that are kind of learning the math before they're teaching the kids.
It was just somebody who did really well in math and school and they haven't looked at it in, you know, five or six years.
Now they have to turn around and teach it so they, but they're smart enough. They can, they can make it work.
So that's an issue. I know there's some things being put in place that like I know, for example, our state changed the teacher licensing exams.
And they're having a really hard time with teachers being able to pass them.
Teachers can graduate. Actually, there's been some lawsuits where students have turned around and sued the college because they can't pass the state licensing tests for their subject area.
What in the argument is is that we spent all our time learning teaching theory and nothing about the content that we're actually going to teach.
So maybe, maybe we should all have math degrees. I don't know. I know there's, I don't think there's any way to do my job and do it without that much time to get it all under your belt.
All that brings back memories, Taj. I told you about how one of my first jobs out of college was teaching night courses at the junior college.
Well, what I was teaching was the basic computing applications course, which was DOS, which I did know.
And word perfect for DOS. I mean, you know, command line word perfect for DOS. No graphics.
Lotus one, two, three, and D base. And I, you know, I'd had to use all three a little bit in college, but I was no expert on any of them.
So, and I didn't, I didn't have a personal computer at that time. So I was in there at night using the college computers and literally one chapter ahead of my students that first semester.
And it's like my rich class, which is funny because it's the top, you know, 5% of the school. So these are like the smartest kids in the school.
I'm teaching a class where these kids are learning Python. I'm sometimes the kids are coming up and showing me shit that I don't know.
I feel like we're doing that class together. And I told them that much. It's like, you know, I know a little bit about this, but I'm definitely no expert.
So it's, you know, it's not a place I like to be, but it's kind of interesting. I like it because it evens playing field because a lot of times the kids would be like, Oh, check this out and bring it up to me. And I'm like, that's super cool. Right on the porch. We can all see it.
So there's, there's some benefits to not knowing what you're doing.
You know, on Todd, something you mentioned earlier, you should know better since this is HP are as long as we flag this on iTunes as not safe for work or mature or whatever, whatever the thing is, we're cool.
So I'm going to officially say, fuck all this fucking bullshit. And Ken, you know, when we, when we submit these, we'll just do them all as not, not safe for work.
Well, summer, summer now 50. Well, I'm just getting this ready, you know, when for this, a web when he shows up, which hopefully you'll do later today.
Kevin says we get the party started. Here we go. And I've only been drinking coffee.
Go, Fiddy. Go, Fiddy.
Where is it that you teach at? What state? I teach in Indiana. You need to move into Jersey because I know kindergarten teachers who teach kids to play crayons and
paper, paper glue or paper mache glue, whatever it is. And I think they make over a hundred grand.
Yeah, it used to be that if you could get enough years in that you'd make really good money.
The problem is is they've, they've changed that game. So you could be your 30 years and, you know, the top, I mean, I think the top you can do in my district, even like if you have a doctorate and you've been there like 25 years is like 70 grand,
which I would take something and repeat. I'd be like, yes, please. But it would take you until you retire to get there. So yeah, different states are a lot different.
And I, like I said, we're contemplating that we just really like River live. So it'd be hard to get us out of here, but it might happen.
I've got personal friends that they're both teachers. He teaches high school math. She teaches elementary. I believe third grade.
I could be wrong on that. And they're pulling in together almost 200 times. Sorry for teachers, especially when you make that kind of money and you only work nine months a year.
Yeah, I'm with you, Mr. Crash. My buddy from that couple, he took a sabbatical. His district actually pays for sabbatical. So he was offered an entire year.
He took one class and screwed off that whole year aside from the one class.
Okay, so you guys are really making me want to move now. They had a guy here who must have been a Christmas party. So I'm a couple years back. But God drunk and something got posted up online.
They give him a year of sitting. I guess, I guess basically in the office and not letting them teach for a year, but they still pay them.
I think a lot of that due to the union structure and what they've negotiated once again, that depends on state like my state. We have right to work. So our union has absolutely no power.
So we can pretty much be fired for whatever we want. In all fairness unions don't do much. I think it would be better off than not being there.
I don't know, Mr. Crash. My place of business needs one. We're running over by our management pretty badly.
Well, it's the same here. Management pretty much tore us apart where union doesn't do anything. Every time they do something seems like nobody's saying anything. I'm like, I guess we don't want. I don't know. It's it's the same thing.
There's definitely no difference anymore in businesses. I think that's the way they're running. It's all about the profit line and it doesn't matter about.
The worst thing about that sort of thing is my company is supposedly employee owned, but it's really management owned and they're own, run, run, rush out over their boys.
But then employee home thing is supposed to make you feel better. It's not actually supposed to be anything. It's just supposed to make you feel better. It's just a nice little tie. They can stick on it.
I actually was in an employee meeting one time in the CEO. We're a small company is like 200 workers maybe. And the CEO was spouting on about the employee ownership plan and arrest that how we're all owners and raising my hand.
He called me out and I said, so I'm an owner. When do I get to vote on who's on the board directors? And he he happens to be the CEO and chairman of the board.
He says, well, if everyone had a vote, then we would all vote ourselves vacation time and ball of law. So I said, I don't agree with that necessarily, but who votes for the board directors for the ESOP?
And he says, well, the board of directors votes for who's on the board directors basically. There's an employee representative that's elected by the board directors.
And he picks the who the board directors are. I was like, there's no, there's no, that's a positive feedback loop basically, you know.
So that's like every other corporation in the United States. Yeah, there's no difference there except for the fact that they get a 10, they don't pay any taxes.
Yeah, I used to work before I became a teacher. I worked for a company and we had a ESOP plan pretty much like that. And the way it was explained to us was, yes, you owned the company.
You own 49% of the company and the CEO's CEO owns 51%. So basically your shares don't mean anything other than a monetary value like that guy still in control.
Well, the funniest thing about this whole situation is about five years ago, I think we're five years in. They went from a 49% ownership to 100% ownership.
And it just so happened the CEO had a whole bunch of shares in the company when they did this. And that year was the biggest year for the company.
Huge this profits, the biggest share prices so that when he sold out, he made a huge profit.
Now he's on the ESOP side. He benefits from the ESOP side too. This guy's like taking it from both sides of the thing and nobody's calling him on it.
I don't know if anyone knows how to call him. I don't know how to call him on it. I don't know who to talk to. I don't know, you know, so there's no real public oversight.
It's not a public trade company. So he just gets away with literally how he wants to do.
The only good thing I can say about the ESOP that I was in is once I left, I did get a check. I mean, they did buy back home my stock and it was not of insignificant amount of money.
They broke it up over five years. And that was nice to get because I just rolled that over into 401k, but that's pretty much the only good thing I had to say about it.
And that was only after I left. So I don't know. Maybe maybe something to live over to.
Yes, that's that's what it is. The thing that concerns me is I don't think there's going to be a whole lot left by the time I'm five years out.
That's the way ours works. You have five years after you quit. If you just quit.
And then they start paying you the paying thirds, they pay you one third of the value of your shares.
The first the sixth year, seventh year, you get half of what's left and the third year you get the remainder.
I don't know if we'll ever go back to a system of making money like we used to.
I mean, it's definitely gotten tougher to make to make a living.
I mean, I remember back when I was in my early 20s here in the 80s, that was the 90s, actually.
You could survive on a paycheck, pay all your rent and still have enough to do other things with nowadays.
I mean, you got to work, you know, a hundred dollars a week and it seemed like you can bear with me.
And you forgot that you're like 200% more productive than workers were back in the 90s.
So you got to keep that in mind too. You're doing more and getting paid less for it.
That's one of the things I observe about I'm a machinist and they got this Kaizon program.
So they're like putting Kaizons in and we'll save the company money.
And you'll see a bigger profit sharing check at the end of the year because they distribute profit sharing checks around Christmas.
And I've done the math on it.
Let's say you save yourself the company a million dollars, you know, so we have a million dollars more profit.
But at the end of the year, you're probably going to see an extra 80 dollars.
Also that improvement management gets the most of it because it's structured so that people with more W2 earnings in the year get more bonus check.
So why should I improve things? Any?
If I improve it, you're going to expect me to work harder for the same amount of money as before.
You're not going to do it. You're going to benefit from it.
I'm not going to make it any any more efficient supposedly.
And now you're just not being a team player.
There's no I and team.
It's funny all these capitalists that and I'm anti communist. Don't get me wrong or anti so vicious.
But all these all these capitalists that scream about communism, but then they run their companies like this.
It's not it's not, you know, an individual thing.
It's all for them and nothing for everybody else. It's very communist.
I don't know how old you guys are, but I just drink 50 Christmas day.
But back in the day.
When you actually worked, it seems like you're also closer to your co-workers and everybody seemed to care about each other.
You work in an area that you were all kind of friends.
I mean, we played softball together and fishing together. We hung out after work.
Nowadays, you just don't have that.
And you know, even my bosses are that way. They come hang out with us and stuff like that. Go see bands for whatever we would.
I think that's completely changed nowadays.
You're so kind of the way it's different for you. You kind of distance from your co-workers and bosses. Don't have that bother you.
I know for me, like, I don't hang out with anybody that works at my school.
And that's part of that geographic. I worked about 40 minutes away from where I live.
So I don't live close to those people, but culturally I have nothing in common with those people.
So like, I mean, they're nice people. I can work with them.
We don't have enough in common that I would actually want to hang out with them.
So for me, I don't think it's a workplace thing because I've worked at a school where I hung out with people.
They were more like me. I think just where I work, it's a little different.
I like the people. I just, you know, when I come home, I want to be home.
Not deal with those people anymore. Maybe that's weird.
I was surprised that six months I had to live in town. It's a small town.
But it's like, you know, people say I never really got to know any of my neighbors.
Well, the ones on the one side, Roy has been a language problem and on the other side.
Well, I need a guy enough to say hello across the fence, but I couldn't tell you what tech his name was.
There's a big lack of community, I think, in modern living.
I think that's part of the problem with crime. That's part of the problem with a lot of mental health issues we've got.
Nobody really knows anybody else and you lose the family connections that you once had.
And there's nobody around.
Remember, man, if I got in trouble in the neighborhood, everybody knew about it.
They made sure they call my parents definitely an issue.
I don't know about anybody else, but if I got in trouble on my neighborhood when I was a kid,
not only did I have to worry if I get my ass beat when I got home,
the parents of the kid that I was hanging out with would probably be my ass.
And then send me home my ass beat.
So where now, if you look at a kid the wrong way, somebody's gonna sue you.
So there's definitely a...
There's a cultural shift that has happened.
Even in the last, I'm only 34.
So I mean, it's not, I'm not that old, but it's happens since then.
Well, yeah, I mean, I don't want to get too political.
These things have happened recently.
And people saying, oh, it's horrible.
The, you know, the cop on duty in the school comes in the room and throws the students around.
Well, you know, in my day, if the teacher said you're disrupting class, then I'd quit disrupting class.
And if the teacher said, okay, I'm tired of you disrupting class.
Go down the principal's office.
I would go down the principal's office and he would hit me.
You know, today, you know, I feel sorry for your teachers,
because you just, you can't even look at the kids wrong.
So if there's a problem in the classroom, all of a sudden, now it's a law enforcement problem.
Yeah. Well, I want to clarify, like when I said you get my ass beat,
I'm like, I'm not talking about getting beat.
I'm talking about like, you know, it was banking, like nothing, nothing serious.
I'm not talking about being your kids.
It's not cool.
I'm just trying to put that out there.
No, I think we all understood that.
But I know the one incident that you're talking about where the kid got thrown out of a chair.
There were so many things that happened wrong procedurally that is that school's fault before that happened.
The student and that police officer should have never been put in that position.
It was a no win situation for anybody who walked in there.
So people are mad at the student, people are mad at the cop.
They both did things they shouldn't have done.
Like I 100% on record and they both did things they shouldn't have done,
but they were both put in a situation they shouldn't have been in.
The school, there should have been procedures in place to stop that from happening.
And there wasn't.
And this is what happens when those things don't aren't taking care of or, you know,
just sort of at that point.
Like why were there other kids in the room at that point?
If a kid is that disruptive that you're calling the police,
everybody needs to be out of the room besides the police officer and that student,
because that student is going to act a fool.
And because you backed them into a corner, they got to say face now.
Like that kid's going to do whatever it is to be defiant now.
You just reinforce their defiance.
It's, I don't know, like there's so many things you can do to avoid those situations.
And I get what you're saying at 50 like, you know, it is hard.
It is hard to deal with students, especially when no matter how wrong a student is,
a lot of times the parents will back the student because that's just,
that's what we do now.
I know when I was a kid, once again, back in the day,
if I did something wrong and the teacher called my house, you know,
it didn't matter whether I was right or wrong, the parents backed the teacher
because, you know, it was adult.
The teacher was wrong, which probably sometimes happened and probably still happens.
But I don't know.
There's so many things you can do to make those situations not as problematic
as they are when they become public that they've been.
And I don't know.
It's just, it's frustrating to see that that's kind of the court of public opinion
when these videos come out.
And I love the fact that there's video.
I think we, everything should be video.
And public scrutiny is important because I think there are things that need to change.
But nobody's talking about the things that actually need to change that would fix the situation.
They're talking about some stuff that, yes, happened,
but they're more systemic problems that need to be addressed than I can't get thrown out of a chair.
Maybe they just used a stun gun that had never had that problem.
I'm not sure there's so much thrown or jumped.
There's a lot of controversy again.
People look at that video, but I think you're right, you know,
in your situation is to protect yourself.
You almost have to come in the classroom every day with a camera and start up running.
No, I personally, this is one of the things that like my fellow teachers really dislike
is the fact that I think we should have cameras in every classroom.
And their whole thing is, well, that you're not trusting me as a teacher.
I'm like, in my opinion is, if you're doing your job, then you have nothing to worry about.
It's there to protect you, not to like criticize you.
And most of the teachers who have problems with it are the ones that like to set behind their desk
and do nothing and end up with sheets and call that teaching.
Get your stuff together and be a teacher or leave.
That's basically my philosophy and always kind of been.
It's the same thing with, I think, if we're going to go down the path or we say,
police officers should have cameras, which I 100% am behind.
I think they should have cameras.
I think we should have cameras too.
It keeps us honest. It keeps everybody safe.
And if something's not happening, it leaves a trail of what needs to be fixed.
Yeah, I don't know. I just, people have problems with it.
And yeah, I do. I think we should be able to record stuff.
But there are so many, I have a list of kids in all my classes that their parents refused to have them on any kind of camera.
So that could be a problem as well.
I remember that, too, where I had an interface of technology.
There was a list of certain students couldn't be in your book pictures or anything like that.
Because this is the world we live in that is so different from what I grew up with.
Well, I guess it wasn't so much they couldn't be in the year, but they couldn't appear on the internet.
Because parents were afraid of creepy people looking at their kids on the internet.
And this isn't, I hate to get off my lawn man here.
But this is something that's just huge difference from when I grew up.
Well, in all fairness, we didn't have the internet actually either.
If we had, oh my God, the videos that would be out about me, I'd be in trouble.
I feel the same way. I'm glad the internet didn't happen until after I was mostly grown.
And YouTube didn't happen until I was grown enough to know not the video dumb stuff and put it on the internet.
I mean, how many times in a school year do I have to have the conversation with a student where I'm like,
okay, you made a lot of dumb mistakes.
The first of which was you filmed yourself fighting and putting it on YouTube in the school bathroom.
And not only did you film yourself, you said your name and the name of everybody else in the room while you were fighting.
Do you not see when you made a mistake here?
Exactly. You know, you hear about people putting stuff up on social media where you just write on the face of what they're doing, something illegal.
Do you have any brain cells left?
One of the things that I picked up when I was kind of going through and looking at psychology stuff.
Starting in about, I think it was like 2008 and the date could be completely wrong.
Every year they do this psychology assessment with kids.
And 2008 was the first time that fame was more important than money.
Kids were more interested in being famous than they were about making money.
So even if they get in trouble, the fact that they might get on, you know, world star for having a fight in the bathroom is way more important to them than the amount of trouble they're going to get in.
So it's definitely something that is different for sure.
I mean, you can see that with just a call famous card to ask him is she has no brains in her.
I don't know what that woman ever did to get famous, but it wasn't for much either.
She's not smart at all or she's brilliant and she's playing everybody.
And she's just, she's figured out a way to play dumb and make millions of dollars.
I'm not trying to be mean.
If you're watching Add Honey Boo Boo, there's definitely an issue.
I literally have a poster in my classroom that's just, you know, the black poster with giant white letters that says quit making stupid people famous.
And I put it up in my classroom and I constantly point to it whenever kids bring up dumb stuff.
Well, gentlemen, as much fun as I'm having, I'm going to step away and go feed a bail.
I'll probably be back in an hour or so or less. So I'll see you then later.
Nice meeting you later on.
Fitty kind of new cell phone here.
It wasn't paying attention to the podcast downloading.
For some reason, I'm downloading all my podcasts through my data.
So I'm five gigs over my data.
How to tell the white yikes.
What are you using to download it?
The pocket.
I use dog catcher. I know it's kind of old, but it's great.
And there's a function on there where you can, you can do a check.
So it'll check as to what's new in the RSS feed on your data plan.
You can do it any time, but it'll only download on either command or when you're on Wi-Fi.
See, I just have unlimited data, so I just don't care.
Although my data sucks and like doesn't work anywhere, but it's unlimited when you can give it.
I've got team nobles, sort of unlimited, but they throttle you after so long.
I've got Sprint and yeah, it's unlimited question mark.
And I've never been throttled and I've definitely used it before.
But it's, it's, it's a Krebshoot as to whether it actually works anywhere that you want it to work.
So I don't know, we're contemplating switching, but I, I just, I don't want to give anybody any of these carriers any money.
I just really don't want to pay any of them, which is bad, but that's where I'm at.
That same boat. I keep telling the wife.
We have to use Verizon here and New Jersey.
Nobody else can even come close to Verizon's coverage.
So you're kind of hit or miss.
I keep telling the wife, we've got to get off Verizon.
Just so we can buy phones that I don't have to spend $800 on.
See, I mixed on Verizon. I spend a good bit of time at locations way, way out of the way.
And Verizon's the only provider that's got any coverage there.
And it's beautiful there.
I mean, full 4G, LTE, beautiful reception there.
I thought about it.
I was going to say I thought about going with like one of the carriers that uses like Sprint Anti-Mobile both to see if it would get me any new places.
But yeah, I feel like Verizon's the only one.
And none of the four carriers work right with like I have to have a micro cell on my basement to get any cell phone signal from any carrier.
So because we've had all four over, you know, the years that we've been here.
But yeah, it's just, ugh, cell phone carriers are, and that's feel dirty.
It's kind of like that in the cable company.
Like those are the two things every time I read a check, I just feel dirty.
Yeah, that's weird that there's a provider, you know, a contract provider that would be on Sprint Anti-Mobile because they're totally different networks.
Well, like that's how Google Fireworks and Tame, actually, if you get the right phone that'll do dual mode,
you just have the GSM SIM in there and you have the CDMA.
You got to get a phone that will do both and switch back and forth, which there are a few phones that will do that.
And it just, it picks the strongest signal and switches back and forth between the two.
And you pay one bill which would be interesting to see if it would work any better than what we've got now.
But it would be one of those definitely try it out and see what happens before committing to it for a long term.
Does Google Fire connect to the Verizon network?
No, I think it's Sprint Anti-Mobile, I think of the two that it uses.
Yeah, I'm not going to say that much.
I'm interested in Verizon, like their network, but I'm not interested in giving them any of my money, if I can avoid it.
Yeah, I think that's the problem.
I'd make everybody who has Verizon feels the same way.
Like, I would love to have Verizon as, just not have to actually deal with Verizon.
I mean, they call AT&T the desk star, you know, because they're a little logo and they're bad, but Verizon's far worse.
I've had all four major carriers and Verizon is definitely the most, I'm trying to think of a good way of putting it.
They were the most difficult to deal with anytime I ever had to deal with them.
Surprisingly, AT&T was not bad as much as you hear, like, holder stories.
I never had a problem with them, but Verizon was definitely, like, difficult to get an event done.
Frankly, at this point, I just want somebody to just blink at the world in Wi-Fi, so I can just use, you know, what color I can be done with it.
There's a way you can set up an antenna, like, you know, on top of your house, and broadcast your Wi-Fi out one way with, like, a, like, a Yagi antenna, like, something, you know, like,
there's a two-meter type antenna for Wi-Fi, and just start connecting everybody around, you know, that way we can get by all that crap.
Actually, you're kind of talking about something that exists.
There's a thing called, I don't know what it's called, they've changed the name on it, but basically it's using, and it's a hand thing, so you've got to have a license.
It's basically taking older routers with the WRT, and you make a mesh network connecting them, and you basically have, like, your own internet under the internet.
And so, and you can connect it to the internet, so if somebody has that, they can run the internet through their router and stream it across, and a lot of people use either, like, microwave antennas, or, like, directional Yagi's, to make these mesh networks.
So, I think, I want to say Seattle is, like, covered in this thing, like, you can just go there, and there's, like, a totally separate network that is just, you can just, you know, go directly into, which is going to go on.
That's part of the problem with the hand being a hand, is that you can't use it commercially, or it's, I'm not for commercial, but also, I guess there's a clause in the licensing laws that says that you can't bypass commercial networks.
If there's a phone ability to be used, I'm pretty sure that you can't, like, use hand, like, not have cell phones.
Yeah, there's still people who have repeaters that you can call into the repeater on your, your HT and make phone calls.
Like, I think that that stuff was put in place, you know, back before there were cell phones, and now, I don't know, it seems like it's not that big of a deal anymore.
You're also supposed not supposed to be able to encrypt things on, on handbands, which is why are their proprietary digital codex, because it's basically encryption.
I don't understand how that works, because someone paid the FCC enough money to get out of the enforcement.
Well, I feel like the FCC doesn't enforce anything, so there are people who have blatantly disregarded every FCC rule, especially, and still have a hand license and have never been fined or told to get off or anything.
Show one nipple, that's all you got to do, show one nipple that we had in California, we had guys on two meters that set up a repeater and none of them had any licensey at all, but I think they're still operating, and that's been like 20, 20, 30 years.
I've got myself a balfang one of those little handhelds I got from a birthday this year.
I've been trying to set up tests with the local guys, but I haven't been able to get a hold of the guys.
There's a whole community online of people who buy, who buy the balfang radios just to, like, legitimately, just get on YouTube and are like, yes, I'm buying this to break FCC law and just use them as a walkie-talkie.
And nobody seems to care, so I don't know.
I just feel like a lot of the hand rules just nobody pays attention to anymore.
I think it's part of the reason why the hand community is shrinking.
I mean, you got a bunch of old guys basically in wheelchairs and nobody's filling their ranks back up because it's just too restrictive, the rules that they've got are restrictive.
Well, I mean, there's my big thing is when I got into hand, which was probably three or four years ago.
When I took the test, I was really interested in the technology.
I was really interested in digital modes.
I was really interested in, like, kit building.
I was much more in the kind of, like, the maker hacker end of it.
But, you know, you've got this whole communications thing, so you hop on and you start to talk to people and you realize very quickly that most people on there want to talk about stuff you don't want to talk about because they are sort of, you know, more advanced in years and have a different philosophy on things.
And, really, it just made me angry. I almost never do phone anymore.
I never, everything I do is pretty much digital in some mode or another, even the local repeater.
Unless you want to talk about, you know, guns, which I have no problem with, it's just not something I'm personally into.
Unless you want to talk about guns or, you know, political stuff, there's no reason to get onto the repeater because that's all anybody talks about or, you know, what antenna they put up.
I mean, I would never not have a license. I love having it. I love that it lets me do things.
I think it's kind of ridiculous that I have to have a license to do what I do, but whatever.
The Wild West on radio probably wouldn't be fun either, but I think there's just, there's so many people.
My experience has been, I tried to get into the local ham community.
And I was like, here's all this cool stuff that your technology could do.
Can somebody help me do this and all they wanted to do was show me what they do with it.
And none of that was stuff that interested me.
And so a lot of it for me has just been experimentation and, you know, researching things.
I think there's sort of a younger contingent that's coming up that is kind of feels a little different about it, but for the most part, I think.
It's not going to be that interesting to most young people because what made it interesting to the people who were in the past, the internet replaced all that.
It's like we're having this conversation on mumble instead of having it, you know, on, you know, 40 meters.
Yeah, exactly. And in all fairness too, people back then did make it really tough to enjoy it.
I mean, I, I used to love going to the swapping. It's the hemorrhidio swapping.
We'd get together and have the practices whether field day wasn't bad. I did a few field days.
And we'd make it to where it was like camping out, you know, we go camp out and do the field day thing was fine.
For the most part, yeah, you're definitely right.
Like I joined the club and it was like one of the most boring things I ever did.
And every time you'd suggest something new to do, they were like, no, we don't do that or no, we can't do that or get the hell out of my lawn.
There is a definite abundance of get off my lawn and ham community for sure.
I never get that way. I mean, I guess I turned 50 that on Christmas day.
But man, I hope I never did. I hope I'm staying mentally 16 for the rest of my life.
You know, I said that for a long time. And I'm not even that old, but there are already things I'm like, get off my lawn.
So I can only imagine it's going to get worse as I get older.
So I don't know. I'm just kind of embracing it.
I'm 43 and I definitely feel the pull of the get off my lawn thing.
Okay. Well, I'm lucky. I have a 10 year old. She doesn't want me to get that.
It's funny the other day. She's screaming at me from the middle of my hair.
Dad, I'm like, yeah, she's like, what's Wonsolo's kid's name?
And I go, first off, he's not Mexican.
Wonsolo is awesome.
Well, then not paying attention. Like I work nine.
So I was kind of half asleep. So I was like, his name's Han Solo. My wife deals back.
He's not Swedish either.
I found myself on the older end of stuff when it comes to like music.
I, you know, I'm, I'm turned into my parents where I think music nowadays sucks.
But I mean, it really sucks, even the kind of the genre I listen to kind of sucks.
And public radio is even worse.
Radio is horrible.
We've got local public radio station that's out of Philadelphia that used to be pretty decent.
They have a wide variety of genres and stuff.
But man, they've gotten repetitive just like the main mainstream media.
I used to listen to a station out of Philadelphia here called down.
Maybe even more. Here in Jersey, they're horrible.
They've switched around a little bit, but it's like you can listen every day and hear the same songs every day.
And you're like, you know, there's more than one track on that whole album.
I think part of that has to do with licensing.
The albums aren't not allowed to pull, but certain certain songs.
You're probably can get WXPN.
I mean, do I heart rate?
I'm sure I could get anything.
It's just around now.
That's why I started listening to podcasts.
Leave it on at night because I got burnt out at what I had on my, my phone for music wise.
You know, actually download it to it.
So I started listening to a few podcasts.
And I think I started out with the, you know, like I said, the Jupiter guys.
I mean, the last that last action show or whatever.
Those ones.
And I just a bunch of others from there trying to keep it fresh because if you listen to it every day,
you run out of medicine.
Yeah.
I listened to the XPN channel one time.
I was out somewhere and didn't have a podcast to listen to.
And they played another one rides the bus by Weird Al.
They played Bitch and Camaro by the dead candidates.
And then they played a William Shatterton.
And I was like, man, this station is for me.
This rocks.
I don't know.
Like I, uh, the Florida became a teacher.
No time to go.
Um, I went to music school to be a professional musician.
And, uh, I got so burned out.
I just don't listen to music anymore.
Like at all.
That's why I went to podcasts.
Like I'll listen to music occasionally.
But like it, I guess it's like post dramatic stress.
And I'm like, I just can't, I can't deal with music anymore.
So that's, that's what made me kind of switched the podcasts.
Although recently, um, if you guys know sound chaser, there's, uh, his, uh,
what's it called cerebral rift has a radio station.
Uh, there's all creative common stuff that is not bad.
Some of it's terrible.
Um, but I found more new music that I kind of dig off there than I have anything else.
Because it's nice because I've not heard any of that stuff before.
So that's been my new music thing.
I found it that working a nice now that, uh,
jumping some ear buds in and putting on a podcast.
Whether I hit or not, I have listened to it.
It's entertaining.
Some things come up in certain topics.
And I'm not a master of any other.
I'm what you call a habitual listener.
Most of them.
I enjoy listening to it.
I like to learn more about the listening to the, you know, the apps.
There's some even some of that.
I listen to some of the iOS stuff to just listen to.
Yeah.
I'm surprised you work in midnight.
You're not a coast to coast fan.
Probably would be if I knew what coast to coast is.
Crank potty deliciousness.
It's awesome.
I might temper my awesome and say it's interesting.
No, it's awesome, but it's, it's definitely interesting.
Do you see, uh, Art Bell has a new show to you?
I thought it was a podcast because he had a new show for a bit.
And he wanted it to be live streamed on the internet.
And the distribution network said no.
So they cancel it.
So I don't know what the status is.
I know it's on shortwave.
Um, I've heard it on shortwave just at night.
I wouldn't be surprised if it's online.
You know what?
Freak it's on.
It is one out of Nashville.
I forget who it is.
You know what?
It is one out of Nashville.
I forget who it is.
Um, yeah.
Let me look it up.
W-W-C-R.
That is probably it.
Yes.
Alright, thanks.
I look it up.
Yeah, I was listening to that one time when he had, uh,
she said Crackpot lady that talks to the dead supposedly.
Um, Sylvia Brown.
And, uh, these, uh,
it's had to do with some coal miners that got buried.
And they didn't know what was going on.
And so she says, oh, they're going to all be alright.
And now over the commercial break right after she says that,
uh, the news hit that, uh,
they were all found dead or, you know, whatever.
And the host actually, it wasn't North Bell was after him.
I guess it was George Norrie.
George Norrie called it a task and she hasn't been on the show since.
I find that awesome.
Not for just our bell guy from somewhere.
Sure, I've heard him.
A lot of AM radio.
Yeah, that's what it's on originally.
Art was, uh,
it's hard to describe how he would do the show.
I mean, the show was, he's a ham.
And he lived in the middle of nowhere in Nevada.
And, uh, he would have these Crackpotty kind of people on.
And he wouldn't actually make fun of them.
But he was real sardonic about how he would do the interviews.
I want to correct my earlier affirmative.
It is actually on WTWW.
Not WWCR.
I've got an old radio shack DX 398 that I used for my shortlisting.
I got to be real bored until this is a shortwave nowadays.
I mean, it's just nothing on.
It's interesting to find something.
In most of the time, if it's something I want to listen to,
it's usually available to podcasts, which is just easier.
But it's cool that it's still there.
I kind of hope that it never goes away.
Which I feel like slowly it is going away.
But it's different.
It would be nice if there was stuff besides, you know,
sort of Latin American music and religious programming.
That would be awesome.
Well, I don't forget about crazy seed sellers.
I don't know how this will be, you guys are.
But here in New Jersey, even FM radio doesn't come in very well.
I think California, I remember listening to,
I would have just outside Los Angeles.
But I can hear all the way down to San Diego.
And you can listen to AM radio and shortwave.
And you get tons of stuff.
But here, I mean, you can get an FM station more than 10, 15 miles.
I mean, I'm probably 35 minutes, 40 minutes from Atlantic City.
And those stations have a hard time reaching me.
I think at all depends on what they're licensed for.
Some of them are licensed for only 5,000 watts.
And other ones are 50,000 watt blue torches.
And that definitely makes a difference as a propagation.
Yeah.
Like I said, I'm 35 minutes away.
But I'm talking like country 35 minutes.
So in its overwater, I live right off the ocean.
So I mean, it shouldn't get to me no issue, you know.
Yeah.
Have any of you looked into WebSDR?
Yeah, I play with that actually quite a bit.
There are a few of them that have a wide enough variety of things
that I can't, well, I don't do HF at my house.
So any HF listening that I do, I'm going to do through WebSDR.
I'm hoping to change that eventually.
But as of right now, that's usually how I do it.
There's quite a few, like, shortwave ram band ones that I,
because I've got an portable lantern, it's not that big.
You can pull in some really cool weird stations with those.
And I'm not the drop off.
I'm not the drop off.
My dogs are me for a walk.
So I'll talk to y'all later.
All right, Landman, good talking to you.
I have to check you guys find it first.
I think I'm finding it as a public hacker radio.
It looks like it.
Kevin, you had to beat me, like, by two seconds.
Come on, man.
You won by not putting the WWE in front of it.
Gear.
Oh, wow.
Nobody's done anything with these show notes.
That's awesome.
I'm going to go in here and throw everything in.
Since it's 601 UTC.
I figured I, since I'm looking at the show notes,
happy New Year's to China,
Manila, Singapore, Hong Kong, Beijing.
Yay, happy New Year.
Even though for most of you, New Year will be probably in February.
Yeah, I think this year it's a year of the Jimmy Bigger.
Well, it's actually funny.
My family is Buddhist.
So, like, we actually celebrate Lunar New Year
and I can never keep track of when it is.
I'm just like, whenever my mom calls,
and it's like, hey, New Year's isn't a week.
And I'm like, oh, okay.
I guess I should get ready for that.
See you guys on movies, on your tin box, on the website.
We're going to bubble hotels.
Man, I haven't seen it moving in a long time,
but it's pretty funny.
Get that reference.
I haven't actually had time to sit down
and watch the new Evil Dead show.
I can only imagine that it's hilarious.
Hey, Gavin, I don't know if you're still listening or not.
I was going back looking to these likes doing the thing.
OpenMesh is actually something different.
It's the same basic technology, I think.
And I don't think there's anything different.
Really that much about it.
It's just the fact that they use part of the hand spectra
to be able to link the things together.
This is actually the only reason that I actually
get cared about the whole FCC banning open firmwares
was because they were saying, you know,
you can't take these routers out of what is legal for Wi-Fi
where hands, my license says it is legal for me
to operate that device outside of that band.
So it's kind of a catch-22 with that.
What I was wondering is how would they stop you
if you had an old router anyway to keep you from updating them
for more?
Here's the hand.
They can't.
There's no way any of this is enforceable
because even if they decided to make block at software
level or even hardware level,
they're going to be, I mean, you can buy chips from China
in bulk.
People are going to buy and build their own systems.
I mean, you already see there's a bunch of boards
that have come out and that are basically router boards
from China that have system ownership,
you know, radios that you can set any spectrum you want
as long as it, you know, will receive.
So I don't know.
I think the whole idea was sort of ridiculous from the outside.
I'm probably going to show my ignorance here,
but can you take like a raspberry pie and make it a roll?
You can.
You, yeah, ultimately, yes.
You can.
As long as you're not.
Well, even then, you good.
You just stick in a antenna with a system on a cheque
on it and have it broadcast out.
The only thing that would, I think, limit you is the fact
that the ethernet goes over the USB bus.
So your data speeds would be limited.
I don't think you would get full throughput,
but you technically yes, you good.
We've had a very, very long, like month long conversation
about that sort of stuff on Linux,
Linux, logcast, and actually 50 is in the process of trying
to come up with a router that he built.
So that that would give you a lot of ideas,
because we've gone back and forth about different parts to use
and things like that.
And I guess I should put a link in the show notes now.
You guys made part here for my daughter.
If anything, even if she just builds her stuff on my app,
so that he's getting to build it and get used to that stuff,
I'd like to see her do the work.
Yeah, we that's actually what we did for my daughter
is we got her a respire pie.
And she, Minecraft is obviously the draw for it,
but she started playing with scratch and, you know,
some basic programming things.
She's kind of a nerdy kid.
I mean, she's into like building robots with dad.
And, you know, so she's kind of predisposed of that sort of thing,
but she's eight.
So she digs it.
I don't think she's at the point where it's,
she's not really into watching videos and stuff,
so the speed on the video on the respire pie
hasn't really messed with her that much.
And I think if it does,
we'd just get her a respire pie too.
Just go that way because I think that's a little beefier.
Plus she really likes 3D printing new cases for it.
She's probably got like 20 cases for her one respire pie.
She just keeps switching them out.
Hey, how old?
How old is that plastic?
That goes through you.
Printed out.
Is it pretty, pretty hefty plastic?
It depends on a lot of things.
You can run different kinds of plastic.
So it just depends.
You can get plastic that's more rigid.
You can get some that's more flexible.
And then you can control like the infill.
So to make things lighter and use less plastic,
you could take the insides of shapes
and sort of make them more hollow to save space.
Or you can make them, you know, just full on fill the whole thing in with plastic.
As long as you're not getting hot,
like above 200 degrees Celsius hot,
which most things aren't going to get that hot unless it's an oven.
You're okay.
It's pretty durable.
Well, I mean, I've put, we knows and stuff outside in the rain and the sun.
And it's been out there for several years and still works.
You know, so I think it's pretty durable.
But I use PLA mostly.
It's biodegradable.
So it's probably the one that would fail first.
And I've had a lot of success with it.
So I'm, you know, I haven't had the need to really switch to anything other than materials
that I want for different things like Ninja Flakes or something like that,
which is more of a rubber that you need 3D print rubber or something like that.
I think it's more along the lines of like making fish and I'm a fisherman with lures also.
I just want to be interesting stuff out.
I'm not very into 3D.
I had never seen anybody do that.
And that would be a great use for it, I think.
Yeah, that's fantastic.
Although, like, I don't know, there's something about like hand-crafting things.
Like I love, I love woodworking.
I always have.
I love my 3D printer, but some things.
It's just, you know, just the feel of making it out of wood is better.
Like the old zen of it is cool.
That's one of the things I've gotten to do here.
As I've gotten older, I've now liked the little projects like that.
I wonder if that's an age thing, but I definitely like doing it.
It's relaxing.
I'll take you.
Yeah, I grew up.
My dad was a machine-nose to the engineer.
And so I grew up around him doing cars and, you know,
lades and CNCs and laser cutters.
And I grew up around all this stuff.
And I couldn't just, you could not be motivated to even care about it.
Like I was so, didn't even care.
And then I had my kid.
And then that basically kind of, I don't know what it was.
It was like a switch flip.
And now I feel like I spent all these years,
but that I could have spent learning this stuff.
And now I'm trying to learn it on my own, which is a lot harder than, you know,
just having him there and just being able to do it with him.
So it's definitely interesting.
It is something that like making and like hand-crafting things is something
that I've picked up as I've gotten older for sure.
Yeah, like I said, I grew up in California.
So my mom was a single parent.
So you have anybody's who are like, you know, car guys and
gotten to the computer thing late.
But I wish I would have been more hands-on with certain things.
When I was younger, I did wood shop obviously in the middle.
You know, nothing that ever stuck with me.
I've grown up.
I kind of wish I had that stuff in there.
Well, I didn't.
I ignored it.
So I guess it didn't do me any good.
And I still wound up doing it eventually though.
It's kind of, it's interesting.
I don't know.
I don't know why.
It's just a different source of it.
And I don't even know what I replaced it with.
Like what I replaced in my life with it.
Like I don't know how I was kind of content without it before.
Or why I was so against it.
I don't know.
Maybe it's the whole like,
sons and fathers thing.
Like, you just, you fight with each other until your adults.
And then it's like, oh, well, we don't have that much time left now.
And we can actually stand being in the same room together.
Now that we do what our daughter likes to do,
try to work it out with her until she starts stalking like the old Disney.
And then we go, I'm sorry.
Daddy has to leave.
I just looked into my kid is really into like our hands-on things.
And to her, she's just, is it, I mean, like literally,
she's just as at home, you know, with grease up to her elbows,
like working on things as she is, you know, playing with dolls.
So, you know, I just, we have things that we do in common.
And she has things she does with her mom that I don't do.
Like video games, I don't play video games.
And they don't arrest me in the slightest.
But they play video games together.
That's like their thing.
So, I, I looked out that she's, she, she has a wide enough variety of things
to where the things that she doesn't like, usually my wife likes enough that,
you know, we just trade off.
And she's, she stays pretty engaged with both of us, which is nice.
Mine is your typical tenure only and she does the girly things.
But she plays basketball.
I took turns just recently gotten into photography.
For my 50th year, the wife got me a new rebel 700D.
So, I'm having fun with it.
Also, she does the hard thing too.
Just, I actually just drew me yesterday a pretty, a spot on looking BB8.
So, that's pretty impressed by it.
She got a heart kit for Christmas.
So, she is drawn, then I'm like, and that's pretty good.
So, she's into Star Wars.
So, you're obviously parenting, right?
I mean, they're doing all the right things.
Well, we just went and seen it, Christmassy.
So, she, first one she's ever seen, that's one to see all the others.
I'm like, I'm gonna go buy this kind of stuff.
Wow, she's never seen any of them.
And she walked right into the new one.
That's a unique perspective.
I don't think I know anybody who is in that boat.
So, that's interesting.
Well, I know, Maulk, growing up.
I mean, I actually went and seen the first Star Wars that came out.
I actually went and seen it in the theaters when it came out.
So, I remember it as a kid.
But my wife and daughter vaguely watched it.
I've always seen them for sure different ones over the years.
My daughter's kind of probably seen bits and pieces
that they've ever put.
I don't think they've even played them on TV.
But she may have caught me looking at something here now.
But she got in and watched that new one and came out loving it.
So, I was kind of happy about that.
Yeah, that's groovy.
Yeah, my daughter, she had no choice.
Me and my wife were both like ridiculous nerds.
So, my daughter's favorite movie, or like the Lord of the Rings movies.
So, she's definitely got the nerd gene.
And she's seen like every Star Wars multiple times.
So, I went and took her like the day after it came out.
She really dug it too.
So, I was glad.
I think she dug it more than I did.
So, that made it made it a little better.
Yeah, I have a good taste in movies too.
So, it's, you know, I've probably tried to get her to watch
different ones.
I used to have her do the truffle shuffle from the goonies thing.
My wife did that.
But yeah, I've got her to watch goonies in much Indiana Jones.
A few different ones.
I've got her to watch.
She likes them.
She's Willow.
I don't know if you ever know Willow or if you ever saw that.
Definitely got her to see that.
She was okay with it.
That's funny.
We have seen it because my daughter's name is Willow.
So, we watched the movie and she's like, this isn't as cool as I thought it was going to be.
It's tough when we're trying to get them to like something.
You're like, but why don't you like it?
Thank you so much.
Well, she's 10.
I'm 50.
Oh, that makes sense.
It's been more surprising, like, just putting things in front of her and just walking away
and seeing what sticks and what doesn't.
Because some things like, or just, I guess, universally good.
And like, she'll glob onto it.
And some things she's like, nah.
Not right now.
You know, it's not, it's not her thing.
Because like, tries much as I can.
My kid does not like Star Trek, which breaks my heart.
But she can't get into it.
Of course, she's eight.
Like, there's not much to Star Trek to appeal to an eight-year-old.
I hear you're there.
My wife and daughter both sing when it comes to Star Trek.
They both just give me that.
You ever blown up in a high-pitch whistle and the dog looks up at you and it just says
that look of confusion on his face?
When they start watching Star Trek, that's the exact look I get.
See, my wife likes it.
So, like, we're pretty much a house divided.
Like, my wife is a Star Wars nut.
Like, she loves Star Wars.
Like, probably more than anything else.
She just loves Star Wars.
And I'm the same way about Star Trek.
She likes Star Trek.
I like Star Wars.
So, I mean, it works out.
We're kind of a house divided.
But we keep the peace because we appreciate each other's things.
But my daughter is like, vehemently a Star Wars fan.
She's like, no, Star Wars is better.
My hands down.
So, I guess I lost that.
And maybe if we have another one, there'll be a trekking, but I doubt it.
Probably just going to lose this.
Now, did you, what did you think of the New York Star Trek movie?
I had been on the record.
This is kind of a running joke with HPR because for some reason every time
I'm on HPR, we get on the subject.
I vehemently hate the New Star Trek movie.
The first one wasn't terrible.
I can watch it.
I appreciated what it was.
I didn't think it was Star Trek.
Into darkness was a flaming load of crap.
I can't.
I just can't abide it.
I almost wish they'd just take the title of Star Trek off of it.
I see.
I can understand that.
But I disagree with you.
Only because I watched some of the original episodes of Star Trek.
And I realized just what big flaming piles of crap some of Omar.
So if I had to look back and compare the two, I think the new movies weren't bad.
I don't think any of them are bad, bad.
I just think they've done differently.
It's not like, I guess it's just different eras of different movies.
It's like comparing half-life one to half-life two.
So maybe that's a bad enough.
I thought they were pretty good.
I thought the first one tied the old movie in pretty good.
I thought it was actually pretty good how they tied in all the people.
And they did a damn good job of picking the cast to play all those people.
I thought they did pretty good.
I was actually impressed with it.
No, that's the one thing I've never had a problem with.
I think they were spot on as the casting.
I think they casted everybody perfectly.
There's like almost to a tee.
Nobody.
Then I'm like, no, that's not that character.
Because even the ones that don't look the same, like can act the same.
And it's almost uncanny how well they do.
I'm just, I don't know.
I just feel like I've never been a J.J. Abrams fan.
And I think he just makes some choices that I don't like.
And I've not liked in any of this movies.
I don't even like them in the new Star Wars movie.
It's the same bad choices.
He just keeps making them.
And it's just my taste, I think, more than anything.
I do like how they rebooted everything.
And kind of like kept the old stuff, you know.
Rebooted without throwing out what everything that was there, which was really cool.
I think that's a cool idea to do.
I just think that it kind of went off the rails.
I'm interested in the next one.
I don't think they're going to make any more after the third one.
But I'm interested to see what happens because I think.
I think a lot of the problem I have with the first two were the writers and they're gone.
So that makes me a little happy.
I have to reach you much in the movies.
I look at it this way.
If it entertains me for the hour and a half I'm watching it, it's a good movie.
If I kind of fade during watching it, it wasn't that good of a movie.
There's very few movies I would say that were big playing piles.
I mean, they have to be really bad.
I've got me opinions of certain ones that were that way.
I think Dylan Ted's excellent venture was one for me.
Yeah, just I think if it entertains me for the hour and a half and it incuses me interest.
I think it did.
I don't expect any action movie, especially Star Trek, Star Wars, anything like that.
Terminator, whatever.
None of those are ever going to win awards.
So I don't I look at it.
Yeah, I get that.
Like sometimes a bad movie is a good movie just because it's a it's a good movie.
You know, it's something you enjoy.
I mean, they're like guilty pleasures.
I got tons of them for sure.
But I don't know.
Like, I just really hate the darkness.
I don't know why.
The funny story.
I wouldn't saw it like opening midnight because I'm an nerd.
And it's the most like hilarious things ever happened in a theater.
We were there.
And the part where what's his face says I'm con or says con or whatever.
Somebody in the theater literally stood up and screamed.
Nope.
That's loud as they could like it was it was a pretty hostile crowd towards the movie.
And they hadn't even seen it yet.
So I mean, and maybe that colors my opinion of it.
But I don't know.
It's it is what it is.
I'm hoping the third one will be better because the first one was tolerable.
I appreciate it for what it was.
Maybe a third one can make me feel better about the second one.
But I don't know.
I'm just I just want another tracks TV show like bring me back TV.
That's where belongs.
The movies that the movies have never worked.
I mean, you got lucky a couple times with really good track movies.
But most of them were kind of mediocre anyways.
So yeah, just just some new TV show would make me happy.
And I'm not even a curious where it comes out.
I like each one of them had their own things that I liked about them.
You know, from Voyager to Deep Space Nine.
There are different things I like about it.
For me, it was a matter of it was just something different that it still fell into.
It's it's it's hard.
There's not much going on right now.
I mean, it's weird.
I feel like there's more TV to watch now than I've ever had to watch.
But I feel like there's less like just absolutely awesome TV.
Although I'm thinking about a couple shows that I'm like, no, these really good.
So maybe I'm just I don't know.
Maybe I'm just not thinking of it right.
There's more TV now, but I think there's a lot of the same way too much out of these.
I mean, it's if you make a reality show on guys who go out and hunt big puts.
And it's for fat guys doing it.
You've ran out of ideas.
What are you talking about?
That's comedy goal.
It's the only reason they buy watches that it's hilarious.
Like I said, I'm getting old so get off my one.
No, no, I'm sitting here thinking like I remember a time like once again being a nerd.
I'm a huge comic book man.
Of course.
I remember when like comic book TV shows were terrible.
And like there's like four or five really good comic book TV shows on TV right now.
And I'm like, oh yeah, those are all really good.
And like I took this day to limit the day that Battlestar Galactic ended because that was the last time there was good like sci-fi on TV, at least in my opinion.
But then I'm thinking like right now there's expense, which is freaking awesome.
The four episodes I've seen are brilliant.
And I can't wait for more.
So I don't know maybe return around a corner and more stuff I will like is on TV than I think.
I grew up in the era of really bad TV.
But even that really bad TV was fun to watch like Duke's a hazard at 18.
Charlie's aim.
But all that stuff was kind of can't be an horrible, but it was great to watch.
So for me, it's like I said, I maybe I look at it differently.
But stuff has to be really, really horrible before I go for that stuff.
I just have high standards.
At least that's easy as I'm going to go with.
You watch the original Star Trek.
You had very low standards because even I say I love those shows.
But man, they were definitely low on the total quality.
It's like watching Godzilla Flicks.
I love Godzilla, but man, they are some of the worst things.
But I love them.
It's kind of like my obsession with old like 70s Kung Fu movies.
They're all terrible, but I love every second of all of them.
Oh yeah, and if they make a Kung Fu flick now and the voices match up the lips, it's just rude.
Why are there not a bunch of like people with bad New Zealand accents doing dubs for every day?
It was always funny how they'd have those older movies, those routine.
And man, they got to be like, what are you doing there?
You're like, you know, that kind of sounds more American than I do.
It just adds to the charm.
I mean, it's just part of it.
But yeah, I get what you're saying.
Like, I don't know.
I grew, like, the original Star Trek is what I grew up with.
Like, that was a Sunday morning ritual in my family.
It's like, everybody got it.
Got up on my Star Trek.
So it's like, I have those nostalgia glasses on.
So no matter how bad it is, I think it's, I think it's brilliant.
So I don't know.
I would argue that it's amazing, but that's just me.
And I'm well aware that that is all due to nostalgia and not due to actual fact.
I remember even after match was off the air, I remember I used to stay up to like 1130 and I did.
Come on, you watch an hour's worth of it here.
That's what I mean about the TV's change where you don't have that anymore.
There's no life on the clock.
And I mean, I take the back cable you do.
But on regular channels, you'd have 11 o'clock at night, 1138 night.
One channel that always have, you know, something like a mashball.
See, I would argue that mash is still a great show.
Like, I love mash, and I always have.
But I think mash is like, weirdly topical and very advanced for when it was on TV.
Like, I think if you made mash today, it would fit in perfect.
But when it was made, it was just like like dark comedy that like it was just fascinating that they got away with that show when it came out.
It's, I mean, it's still a classic.
I mean, you'll watch it and they'll say something.
You're like, holy crap, that was like really thoughtful, deep.
And this is this is the show where they just made like the dumbest joke in the world.
And there's like a guy running around and dressed.
Like, I mean, I think mash is awesome.
I used to watch mash and it was actually on the air, not in rear runs.
No, I, I definitely cut in rear runs.
A lot of the time at that, like 11 o'clock, when you were talking about that, that was one of the times when I would watch it.
It was also actually, for a long time, the way it worked out was it was Star Trek.
Like 10 or whatever, I'm just making that number out.
It 10 and then it was like 11, it was mash.
And then as I got older, they quit doing both of them on TV.
And so I would, I would actually stay up and watch it tonight because that was the only time it was on.
So yeah, I definitely heard you about that, that, that whole period of time.
Of course, I didn't have cable until I was, you know, well, I personally didn't have cable until four years ago.
So it's a new experience to me and I still don't watch it.
Yeah, Mr. Crash said Aftermash, which just brought the whole, the whole question down.
Afternoon.
Don't you remember they tried to keep it going after it was over?
It put it that way. It was probably so bad. I didn't remember harder than that.
Yeah, I think you got like five episodes in before they killed it.
It's been off bad.
Now, I've been listening to you guys on the stream while I was out of the house.
I'm gonna have to go again in a while, but I don't know.
My opinion on the whole Star Trek Star Wars thing.
I have to admit the new, the trailer for the new Star Wars movie or not Star Wars Star Trek movie looks pretty good.
But I got disassociated from the whole thing.
My opinion, you know, my opinion is, okay, they're going to want to do a TV show again at some point.
And what are they going to base it on the original Star Trek or the movies?
So it just seems to me that, you know, they trash the whole history of Star Trek just for the basis of the movies.
And they've done the same thing, of course, with the new Star Wars movie, all the novelizations and all that stuff they just threw out the window.
The only deal, there is a new Star Trek show coming out. They're working on it right now.
The only thing that makes me think it will not be set in the new movie universe is because the only reason there hasn't been a TV show
is because two different people own the rights. I think Paramount owns the movie rights and CBS owns the TV rights.
And they're not the same company and it's been an ugly fight back and forth between the two of them to even get the TV show made.
So I kind of feel like CBS, out of spite, will set it back in the prime time line just because just like, you know, if you guys.
And you were a fan of Battlestar Galactica.
How did it compare and time frame wise to the old suit? Was it built around the same time or was it a different era?
Asked that again. I think I missed part of the question.
Well, you had the same characters, but they swapped sexes around some.
So, you know, but you had Commander Adama in both definitely supposed to be the same time.
Well, I think we're getting older generations now where I think the new Star Wars was kind of a...
It was for people like us that love Star Wars, but it's also for, I guess, a next generation going out.
So I think the next one's going to be a little bit more independent, more so than relying on what happened in the past in Star Wars.
I think they did this one to give us some on it, but also to get our kids in.
Yeah, I kind of felt like I kind of wanted them to do more different, like more new different.
I don't want to like spoil it because people haven't seen it.
But I felt like it was almost too slavish to the old stuff.
I kind of wanted them to get a little further away from the old stuff, but I mean, you're right.
They have to like appease the fans that are out there, which I understand.
Not being a huge Star Wars fan, just being, you know, liking Star Wars.
I can understand why they put the old characters in it and kind of had a very similar plot to the other movies to just sort of like,
okay, this is going to be okay. We're going to put in new people, but like we're going to, we're going to hold your hand through it to get to the new stuff.
So that is, yeah, it's interesting that they made that choice.
But as far as like Battlestar, if you see in the old show, it is a completely different thing.
They take the basic premise of Battlestar Galactica and just go in a totally different direction.
So like they're not related to each other in any way.
It's not like a next generation or like they're not even in the same universe.
Like it's basically just, if you started with the pilot of Battlestar Galactica, that's about the only thing that's the same.
So you just, you've got some characters names and some personality traits and then the rest of it was just a new show.
Like I can watch the old show and appreciate it for what it was, but the new show is just freaking amazing.
I didn't have that much of an attachment to the old show, so it didn't bother me.
I know some people who refused to watch the new show because it was like, they wanted those old characters and that was not what,
they wanted to see that story again or see a new version of that story and that's not what happened.
Now the new show is much more mature and adult and I don't mean that in like mature content.
So there's some, you know, there's certainly some stuff in there, but I mean the old show is 80's camp like almost as bad as Buck Rogers.
You know, and you know, this, this show, very, very serious topics, probably not appropriate for younger viewers.
Not because, like I said, not again, because of anything.
Adult like that, but it's not, it's, you know, kids wouldn't want to be able to watch this, understanding what's going on.
It's very, very dark, especially, well, I never got to the end yet, but especially at the end, it's supposed to get very, very dark.
Coming in these days, I'll definitely go through my Amazon Prime big one, try to walk.
Yeah, it's definitely, of course, this is my opinion.
It's kind of one of those touchstone things, like I feel like if you're a sci-fi fan, you watch it just to say, okay.
I know that point in history and sci-fi, sort of like going back and watching Lost in Space.
That was the most painful experience in my life, but at least I understand what it was now.
It wasn't pleasant, but I did it, so I understand the framework.
I know a lot of people who hate Battlestar, like because they're like, there's never demon quality, like this is just, it's basically just sad depressing constantly.
Yeah, so I mean, but I think if you look at when it was made, that was pretty common. There's a lot of shows like that.
I think anybody here before you ever say that you've seen something bad, someone needs to go back and watch.
Land it along, set TVs, and then you can have it for a second.
That show was my jam when I was a kid.
I loved that show, and then I made the mistake of trying to go back and watch it as an adult, just because I was like, oh, I used to love this show.
Oh, Lord.
I almost said Mardi Crop movies were all the same, too. Like, they had one called Lids.
Lids does. I don't think it what it was, but all the creatures were just big hats.
But yeah, it was all the same stuff. They were all this.
And H&R puffing stuff. Yeah, I remember watching those when I was a kid.
Oh, there was some stuff like, you know, I used to think the monkeys was great when I was a kid, and then you go back and watch it.
And it's like, how did I ever sit through this?
That out of my favorite one. They remember every Saturday.
Anyway, I could have run here. So I'm not talking to you guys.
I had to check the podcast out. When you guys air them out, when do they, when do they, you guys actually record them?
There's a new one every day during the weekdays.
And the way it works is basically anybody in the community can record an episode.
So, you know, I may record an episode and put it up and it goes down.
And there's some episodes where a bunch of us work together and put them together.
So like the audio book club, which 50 and I do with a couple other people or things like that.
So basically every day, it's kind of like a new show every day.
It's definitely something to check out.
So yeah, I would say, look at that.
And then if you haven't looked at Linux loadcast, that's another show that 50 and I are on occasionally.
That is more kind of Linux how-to stuff. So that would be another good one to check out.
Yeah, definitely.
Anyways, listen if I don't see you guys. You guys have a happy day on the weird load.
I don't know what 50s if I don't see you guys.
Yeah, I'm here in Kansas.
Another one you might look at though.
I don't know. It depends on the participation going forward.
Is the kernel panic augcast at the kernel panic augcast.net.
It's sort of a
Linux
current events show that we do every couple weeks.
Definitely check them off.
Pop it here. Are you guys, is this your guys normal mumble server?
No, we actually, everything other than HBR, we record on different server.
They're occasionally people hanging out on here.
So sometimes if you pop in, there might be people in.
But it's definitely like if you wanted to be on something or record something,
this mumble server is always kind of open for that.
So it's free for the user.
Well, I just want to see if I can come in and just pop in.
I don't go in very mental servers, but so far today I've liked this one.
Well, the information for the other one is on our website at linuxlogcast.com.
And it'll give you, you go there, it'll give you the information how to get on the other server.
And everybody is invited to join us the first and the third Friday of the month.
I'd also say everything that we've talked about, all the shows and everything,
there will be show notes on this one that goes live on Hacker Public Radio.
So pretty much everything we've talked about, I've been putting in the show notes.
So you can just go back and check all that stuff out.
And that way you don't have to worry about, I'm gonna, it'll all be right there for you.
Well, like I said, I'm, I'm really just a listener trying to get in here.
Anyway, but that said you guys have a good day.
You do, man, pleasure meeting you guys.
I just saw the Kevin said IRC.
Oops.
Yeah, this new show is a good way to like introduce people to Hacker Public Radio.
Well, like especially with the show notes, we've got just like lists of links of cool stuff.
Oh, yeah.
It really has been good for that promoting the show.
So sorry, I missed KPO.
I couldn't talk that day.
So me getting online, I actually think I was asleep at 10 o'clock.
I've had this upper respiratory infection for like the last week.
So it's also why I haven't liked my sweet berry white voice today.
Well, it was the day after Christmas.
So I figured might not be anybody on.
I just haven't got released yet.
I was going to add a promo for this show to it.
Now there's no point.
And then do a preparation for this show took priority.
So it'll get out this weekend sometime.
You should put the promo on anyway.
It's just just because why not?
Sounds about right.
Okay.
We do that.
That was a joke.
Okay.
You shouldn't actually come back.
Well, in a few, I'm going to have to step away for a little bit.
But I'll be back in after a while.
So we might actually go dark for a while.
If you're walking away and I'm walking away.
I don't know.
I want to see who else steps on later.
Yeah, I've got a service I have to go to.
I'll probably be back.
Well, it starts an hour and 15 minutes.
So probably about I'll be gone in 30 minutes from here probably.
So be a couple hours.
Probably in town for I get back.
After that, I'm clear the rest of the day.
Well, I'll only be gone probably about a half an hour or 45 minutes.
So worst case scenario, we only go dark for that long.
Or people could jump in here and start talking.
That would be cool.
Yeah, if anybody's actually listening to the stream and you want to jump in,
this is the time to do it.
We don't bite.
We like talking to new people.
For anybody still listening was out this morning.
I did check my mail and I've got my cool,
new Linux voice mug.
It's got a picture of RMS on the back.
So, you know, that's interesting, I guess.
I am going to take this opportunity when we have a quiet period
to stop and restart my recording.
That way, if anything screws up, I don't lose the whole show.
Okay, so that's done.
What do you mean, hearties?
Howdy, handsome pirate.
Are y'all doing today?
Oh, glad you showed up because I got to leave pretty quick.
Or at least get away from the microphone.
Who are you?
So what's shaking?
Oh, we've been talking about TV and movies and stuff.
I guess you want to talk about your latest modeling project for a bit.
I reckon I can.
Probably pull up some pictures and drop them to the show notes so I quick.
Welcome, John Culp.
Hey, anybody home?
Yeah, I'm sitting here.
Am I distorting when I speak?
Not particularly.
But a little bit?
Well, there's a little bit of compression artifacts going on,
but nothing really major.
Okay, as long as I don't have clipping going on, I hate that.
I tried to lower my mic volume on my microphone settings here,
but I'm never sure how it's going to sound from y'all's end.
I totally get it.
So, any conversation going on?
Or people just kind of hanging out?
Oh, we were talking about movies and stuff.
A bunch of people left or, well, a couple people left.
I've got to go pretty soon.
I hope you guys can get a conversation started.
Hanson Piret was asked him yesterday if he was involved in any modeling projects,
building models.
And he said he had quite a bit to talk about.
Models like model airplanes and stuff.
Model trains, mostly.
Ah, cool.
Yeah, I was pulling up some pictures dropping to the show notes.
Sorry, I'm trying to adjust my mumble incoming speakers.
Like, headphones out.
You guys are loud in my ears.
Not distorted, but just loud.
And somehow my system volume is separate from the mumble playback.
Very strange.
Well, I do believe it is now New Year's in another location.
It must be.
We just hit the top of the hour.
Any idea of what location that would be?
I have no idea.
So greetings to Pakistan, Tashkent, Islamabad, Lahore, and Karachi.
Somehow, I think you've got a cheat sheet.
It's on the show notes etherpad.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, I don't have that open.
I should probably open that up in a browser.
Oh, Hormie Hartey.
Howdy.
I'm just looking at these model train pictures
linked to their really beautiful.
Oh, I thank you.
It's really cool.
We were, my family and I were in New Orleans
over Thanksgiving break.
And one of the things we did is go to City Park
where they have this lights festival kind of thing
for the beginning of, I guess, beginning of a Christmas season
or something.
But one of the areas of the park is a model train area
that got what I think is G-scale trains running.
They're very large.
And they run all around this big, long, elaborate track
with lots and lots of buildings and little people everywhere.
It's really, really cool.
My primary modeling interest is the original Norfolk Southern
as it did in 1948.
And I specifically model Eastern North Carolina.
And I do it in an in-scale, which is quite small.
Yeah, I used to have an in-scale set when I was a kid.
Yeah, you're right.
That's pretty small.
So nobody markets that particular engine
as a pre-built model?
Oh, they're pre-built models available.
And in fact, many of my models are pre-built
that I then modify and make to look more realistic.
Have you done a show about this?
I should.
Yeah, I don't recall hearing any shows about model railroading.
I bet a lot of people would find it interesting.
All right.
So this last one I just dropped in.
The last two pictures is a modeling,
did for modeling contest.
Really?
No.
You're talking about this.
What is a coal car or something?
Oh, no.
I did a, it's the Pennsylvania railroad covered hopper.
It's a cement hopper.
Oh, okay.
I don't know what to call these various things.
And it was some kind of carry something
that then gets dumped out the bottom it looks like.
Oh, I did actually link to a model of a
hopper car full of coal I did as well.
Yeah.
I'm looking at the box car.
That looks very familiar.
Really to what we still have modern day for box cars.
Now, dad used to tell me,
see his dad ran a grain elevator.
So they had to fill back in those days they didn't use
hopper cars for wheat dead box cars.
So essentially what you had to do is they had a shoot
that you stuck in that side door.
And then, you know,
the darn fool you would have to be,
you actually crawled in there with a scoop shovel
and scooped wheat to either end.
And then you sort of had,
you had your wooden boards that you would nail up
on the inside of that open door and go up.
So you would, you know, you'd fill that car
until you just barely had room to crawl out.
So essentially you buried yourself in the box car with wheat.
Oh, I don't think I like that job.
Oh yeah.
And the good old days of forwarding were
not exactly easy push office jobs.
I make, you know,
makes my, makes my skin.
It's just even think about that.
And then unloading it was a whole lot easier.
They actually, you know, they,
they had a section of track that would tip up.
So they had one machine,
you know, they opened the door,
then they had one machine that would bust out all the wood
that had been nailed up on the inside.
And then the track would tip up
so that the grain car was, you know,
dearly all the way on its side
to pour the grain out.
So the railroad had the, you know,
had the easy part of loading it.
But wouldn't it just dump the car right off the track?
Well, they had a way it would clamp, you know,
they clamped the car down to the track.
Okay.
That sounds pretty squirreling to me.
Well, even today a lot of co-oppers are actually unloaded
but in rotary dumps.
And they clamped the car in place
and just turned the whole thing over.
So it's completely upside down.
No, that is crazy.
I never heard of that kind of thing.
It dumps it out a lot faster than dumping through the hoppers
at the bottom.
I would guess so.
Well, guys, I got to leave you here for a while.
I have to go get cleaned up and dressed for services afternoon.
If I have time before I leave,
I'll shout at you again.
Otherwise, I'll be back on in three hours or so.
Hey, you're going to get cleaned up.
Take pictures.
See you later, 50.
Yeah.
So basically,
a lot of my modeling is I buy kits or a scratch build.
So do you just have to buy like sets of axles and wheels
and stuff like that and little hook up things
and then build the entire car around it?
Or do you buy?
I don't know how these things work.
Well, say for instance,
here recently,
I've been doing some flat cars in Narevagin scale, for instance.
I buy the trucks and the,
which are the swively bits that hold the wheels,
the wheels themselves and the couplers.
And as you say, I've built the rest of it.
My favorite medium is wood.
That sounds so,
it sounds really cool.
Do you have like super precise, tiny tools you use to cut
the little bits and assemble them and stuff like that?
Oh, yeah.
I've, I've got parts that I've etched and brass and stainless steel
that are small enough that they fit on Ablink and sear and a penny.
Oh, you ever use,
I know you said you like to work in wood,
but you ever use a laser printer to, I mean, sorry,
a 3D printer to make parts and stuff like that?
Oh, yes, actually.
I have,
give me a second.
I'll go up some pictures of one of my 3D printed projects.
So I'm assuming Cam is going to run his truncate silence thing
on this recording with it's somebody will.
So these long silences will be cut out.
Is that correct? Is anybody know?
Oh, yeah, that's the idea.
Yeah, it sounds good.
Who was that that just bugged?
I didn't see the lips moving.
Honky Mugu.
Oh, hey.
Howdy.
What up?
Not much.
Where, where are you, Honky Mugu?
Massachusetts.
Uh-huh.
Okay.
I went there one time.
Apart.
That Boston.
There was a conference in Boston.
Who was an elf?
Was it?
No, no, no.
This was a musicology conference years ago when I was still in graduate school.
I went to the annual musicology meeting in Boston.
Cool.
That was a great, great place to visit.
Yeah, Boston is kind of fun.
My enduring memory is of writing the tea, right?
Is that the name of the train?
Yeah.
Well, writing the tea on Halloween and just seeing all kinds of people dressed up in costume,
just kind of writing along, looking gloomy and holding onto the little rails, you know,
going to their destinations for their little parties or whatever,
but seeing people writing around on a train in costume was very, very funny.
Oh, yeah.
Actually, this has usually been my favorite time of year to go into Boston.
Back when I was younger, we used to start at one train station and just kind of,
just kind of go into Boston and work our way around from bar to bar to bar
and then finally take the tea home back to the original train station we started at,
which has a hotel and just kind of crash there.
That sounds like a good plan right there.
It was, especially since there was a eye hop there, which is a pancake place.
That was open 24 hours.
And so we would finish the night with some pancakes and then crash.
You don't have to explain the eye hop to me.
Remember, there was a similar, there was an eye hop right down by Vanderbilt
that we used to go to when I was when I was in high school.
I lived in Nashville and the only place that was open at a certain time of night was
eye hop.
So it would be packed at about two or three a.m.
Eye hops everywhere.
Is eye hops North Carolina?
All over the place in Louisiana definitely had them in Tennessee.
All right.
So I've got a couple of pictures of one of my 3D printed projects.
Opening now.
Cool.
So did you 3D print the entire thing like all in different pieces and then assemble them or something?
Something like that.
The mechanical bits were actually a pre-existing model, but I 3D printed the shell.
It's done in several different parts because any kind of overhang leads to not the smooth
or leads to this side texture not being exactly smooth because the way wax is added
to support overhanging structures.
And there's also a bunch of etched brass parts on there.
And that is really cool.
So do you have your own printer?
Do you have to go somewhere and have these printed out?
I get them done somewhere because the printer is to do that level of detail and quality
or it's still not exactly affordable.
Gotcha.
We actually have at our renovated downtown public library that got 3D printers in a maker space there.
And I don't think they're super high-end, but they allow anybody who wants to come in and print stuff out without cost.
So it's a really, really nice thing.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah, I mean, I was going to pay for what I used, but they said they don't really have a mechanism in place to accept payment for it
and that as long as they were able to afford to get materials, the filament and whatnot, then they would just keep offering it for free.
That's really cool.
Yeah, very cool.
I did an HPR episode about the maker spacing, getting my first 3D printout thing several months ago now,
but if you're interested in hearing all about it, you could go check that out.
I shall do so.
What did you wind up getting printed?
I printed a Kindle stand and the plans for which I found online somewhere.
And I don't remember exactly where one of these places where people post their designs for things.
And it works.
Although if I were to print it again, I would make a couple of modifications because the design that this guy did when he was making it,
it did not accommodate the case that I have on my Kindle.
So in order for it to fit on the little stand, I have to open, like normally what I do is open up the cover of the case and wrap it around behind.
But if I do that, then it no longer fits on the stand.
So I either have to leave the thing kind of sticking out to the side or remove the Kindle from its case altogether, in which case it fits perfectly.
Just toss the file into the blender and have fun with it.
Yeah.
I haven't tried editing any 3D plans or drawings before, so that's like a whole different thing that I would have to learn how to do.
And at the moment, I don't really have time.
I've got a new job starting in a few days and I'm going to be learning everything about the new job so I can't be fooling around with that kind of stuff.
I used to do CAD professionally, so that helps.
That would help, yeah.
So what sort of hobbies have you got?
Who me?
Indeed.
Let's see.
I like scripting, like ebook hacking, like reading.
I used to play disc golf.
I like to read.
Not sure what else.
I like working on bicycles.
Doing any kind of like carbon fiber frames or anything like that?
No, no, no.
I work on the extreme other end.
Like I'll take old beat up bikes and refurbish them and make it like the bike that I ride every day right now is one that I picked up a goodwill for 13 bucks.
A 1985 Swin.
And I overhauled all the components and reassembled and installed better brakes on it and different handlebars and stuff.
And now I have an excellently functioning bike that is not a target for thieves.
Have you seen it Tom Exombi?
I don't think so.
Is that a movie or a show?
It's a guy.
Oh, okay.
No, I haven't seen him.
I think he might be in the hammered on the front of my...
Do you have a skull on your handlebars?
No skull on my handlebars.
Do you think I should put one?
You totally should.
I could do that, yeah.
I did an HPR episode.
One of my early episodes was about the building of my recumbent bicycle.
I learned how to do some basic welding and hack together a recumbent bike from a few donor bikes and stuff.
That was just one of the great projects of my whole life.
Learning how to do that and coming out with a bicycle that I could ride around so comfortably.
That was super fun.
I'm looking at the Atom Exombi site now.
That looks excellent.
That they're recumbent tadpoles and I see a short wheelbase recumbent there on the front.
Nice.
He sells the plans to make them out of old bikes.
Ah, cool.
Yeah, I got the plans for my recumbent, not from here, but from some other place.
A guy called...
I forgot what his name is, but he has a website called Recycled Recumbents, I think.
Those contraptions look, I might be uncomfortable.
The recumbent bikes are very comfortable.
I don't know that all of these that they're showing here would be comfortable, but in general,
a recumbent bicycle is much more comfortable than a sitting up straight one, although it does take some getting used to.
Of course, I say that, but, you know, my kind of thing is more into...
I like sailing, so, you know, hiking out is pretty comfortable to me, but other people might not think so.
Basically, sitting on the gunnel of the boat and leaning backwards as far as I can to counterbalance the forest's wind on the sail.
Could that sounds hurting to me?
Anyway, it's just... I've been doing it my whole life.
Mia, I want to get into kayaking.
Done that, too.
I don't know if I'll be able to, but hopefully this year I can get one.
I've done whitewater and saltwater kayaking.
I just want to flip fishing platform.
Oh, it gets you a nice big sea kayak and go out in the sounds.
I'm not by saltwater, so, nah.
It'll be a sit on top.
Well, that's what I'm saying. Sea kayak.
I've just added a link to my recumbent bike episode.
Didn't come through here.
Well, it should be on the etherpad, not on the chat.
I'm not sure what the etherpad is.
I'll drop that into chat right quick.
Okay, I put it in the chat room as well.
There it goes. Thanks.
I see in my show notes that the website was called Recycled Recomments,
and the guy's name is Andrew Carson.
Clever of me to put that in the show notes, so I would remember later, huh?
Yep.
Useful that app.
I love it.
I do that.
Yeah, I think I have a link here that's going to be broken to the pictures from my gallery.
Yeah, the link to my pictures is broken.
I might have to have Dave Morris fix up some kind of improvise.
Photo gallery.
The picture server I used to have running crashed one day, and I never did redo the,
what I forget.
PiWigo, I think, was what I was using for my photo server.
Give media a goblin a shot.
Yeah, maybe.
I just don't think I want to run one anymore.
Folks, I will be right back.
My mumble client is doing something weird.
Okay.
I recently found a website that's got all kinds of tear downs for fishing reels,
which is fascinating.
They're a really neat little piece of tech, a lot of them.
It sounds like the kind of thing.
If I took one apart, I don't think I'd get it back together.
A lot of them have really, really intricate workings on this other one.
I would think so.
It's a little bit like taking a watch apart or something.
Yeah, watch has always fascinated me.
I thought about taking, I've got an automatic sake of movement.
Invict GP here.
I'd love to take it apart, but I'm afraid of not being able to put it back together again.
My wife just had a watch worked on.
I had a sacoautomatic from the 1980s, and I gave it to her when I got wrist problems.
I can't wear a watch anymore, but so she wears it now.
She just had it cleaned at the watch repair play.
I think she just got it back this afternoon, and I haven't seen it yet.
Supposedly, they take everything apart and clean down, put new seals, and all that stuff, and then reassemble.
So we're hoping it will keep perfect time after that.
If it's an automatic, it won't be perfect.
Oh, come on.
We were saying.
We like to think it will be.
Unless it's quartz, it's going to run off.
The one on my wrist right now runs about five minutes slow across a month or so.
Well, that wouldn't be too bad right now.
Well, before she had cleaned it, had been getting off by about a minute a day, and that was kind of too much.
It's actually not a spec for an automatic.
Well, we'll see how it runs after this.
I think I'm going to have to run here.
I believe the plan this afternoon is for me to take my son to see the new Star Wars movie.
So I think I'm going to have to bail out.
Don't do it, man.
Don't do it.
Have you seen it already?
You saw the first movie, you saw that one.
Okay.
Well, I've got a 14-year-old, and he can't go back to the spring semester without having seen the new Star Wars because all his friends will have seen it.
I saw it.
I think it was okay, but it was extremely predictable.
It was bad that way.
I guess I can live with it.
I don't know.
They're fun.
And we're back.
It's just in time for when I have to bust out of here.
Now we'll see you guys later.
I might drop back in later this afternoon or something.
See y'all.
Have a good one.
Yep.
You too.
Have a good one here.
Same to you.
I had some pirate used to work at Red Hat, right?
I did, indeed.
How did you find another job similar?
I'm not exactly working on Colonel anymore, but I've had a couple of contract gigs since then.
I've also done some sis-hatman work and some other random odds and ends.
Are you still working mostly with Linux stuff?
I am.
I know I squat all about Windows, so that would be...
I wouldn't be able to do a Windows game, for sure.
Now, if you don't mind me asking, what happened with the Red Hat gig?
What ended up going through a layoff round?
Well, that sucks.
Now, my roommate also got the axe and a few other people.
Now, you're finding it difficult to find work for Linux, sis-hatman, or are you having an easier time?
I've had mixed successes.
I've got...
I don't have a college degree, so sometimes that kind of hurts.
Yeah.
How about you?
What are you up to these days?
Me.
I work retail.
I'm a produce manager for a local grocery store chain.
Any IT stuff I just kind of do on the side or more of a hobby type stuff.
Well, that's the way it used to be for me, and I wound up with Red Hat, so who knows?
Yeah, but I have to push it in some sort of a direction.
Right now, I've just kind of stalled on the whole idea of even trying to push it in any sort of direction.
Yeah, I reckon for some folks, if it goes from being a hobby to an actual job, it's no longer fun.
Yeah, I thought about that, too.
And I also think about the fact that I'm 35 married with two kids and a mortgage.
And so I can't afford to do some sort of any sort of job where I'm not making enough to support the whole family.
And working for Red Hat, you definitely would make enough to support the whole family.
Oh, yeah.
I was not poor.
So how did you get your foot in the door with Red Hat?
I've been doing a lot of work with Fedor Project, and so I basically, since Red Hat sponsors Fedor,
a lot of Red Hat employees work on Fedora.
That was my foot in the door, as you say.
I guess someone got to work on it.
Hey, now, you actually run Fedora still?
I've been running Fedora since, for my primary OS, since Fedora Core 1, which is over 10 years ago.
I just never could get past the whole RPM thing.
I tried installing it last year. There was a lot of hype.
I guess it was spherical cow, or maybe it was the release after that.
I got it installed, and Nome 3 really sucked.
I didn't have any of my, I guess, the not officially supported proprietary extensions that make everything work.
Yeah, that wasn't, didn't stay along on my machine.
I don't use Nome, so for various reasons.
I'm actually, I use a tiling window manager called QTile.
I thought I'd try on one of those, but I don't use my computer enough to really train myself on it.
So, yeah.
You've been listening to Hecopublic Radio at HecopublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hecopublic Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
