Episode: 1678
Title: HPR1678: 2014-2015 New Year Show Part 5 of 8
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1678/hpr1678.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 07:25:03

---

This is HBR Episode 1678 entitled New Year Show Part 5 on 8.
It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 137 minutes long.
The summary is New Year Show Part 5 on 8.030-3.000UTC.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Yeah, I don't know if they were I wasn't here.
I should have late.
I've not been here that long so I don't know I've not seen I was in for half an hour
earlier on a few hours ago and disappeared and got an ebriated and they have come back
and I've not seen them since I've not seen them this year so I think it would have been
nice to hear from those guys.
Are you still an ebriated?
I'm going to play the fifth or the fourth or I'm going to pick a number and plead that.
Plead the fifth so five shots or fifth or fifth the whiskey.
He'll plead the fourth while drinking a fifth.
Now what's at this point of no idea but that's what I say that I have this will web read the
original Scottish lyrics I can't talk now the the internet drunkenness is spreading
and I haven't even drank anything you can't even see it and you've not been drunken.
How do I go feel?
We're going to go for a challenge tonight this will web.
You have to read the original Scottish lyrics of All-Bang Sign.
No no this will do the physical challenge it's way easier there might be some green slime or
a temple to do them but it's way easier.
Really I just want to hear this will web say willy walked.
And diddly no I was actually thinking there's a much more apt quote from the
anachmic vehicles alone drink and I'll actually I will do I'll see if I can find it
is that I've picked this out and I thought I was absolutely brilliant about it boost
bear in mind that might take a while my fingers are not quite as accurate as they should be.
It works perfect for me I've already got a beer in mind.
Actually I wonder how many people know this most people do know that All-Bang Sign was originally
only a poem right as far as I know what you have as a poem yeah I just I wonder how
many people are mumbling along to it when their rags realize that.
I'll take a head count next time.
No and I didn't mean to leave this a web out when I was talking about all my favorite people
in the channel and I think we were talking earlier or on the same time but I don't know if we've
talked to much since a year ago and as far as getting raunchy
frankly I encourage it and unless it's the time when Ken Fallon comes on with his kids and
stuff has he done that already? No he hasn't you didn't mean to leave him out when you talk
about your favorite people you meant to leave me out didn't you? I mentioned you?
I wasn't here I'm sorry I'm only I'm only kidding me you don't have to get defensive.
I don't like none of you. I don't like how do y'all listen to the book?
No 50 it's all right I'm just being a turd no problem.
But no you know traditionally because people do come on here snuckered and maybe we haven't
had as much of that this year you know we we always flag the entire new year show is not safe for
work so if you if you if you feel the urge you know go ahead and say something naughty but then
again you know this might be this might be the first time we've ever got through the entire show
without being terribly raunchy usually it's my fault and if someone if if someone wants to measure a
a drink to swear words ratio I can point you to a couple KPO's. I remember a show that cannot be
mentioned that was even better than most KPO.
Right I cannot find this one quote so I'm going to have to paraphrase and I'm I'm going to do it
and I'm going to butcher it I'm really I'm it's something along the lines of the knacknack
feagles it's a disc world quote the knacknack feagles are a little a little blue men almost like
smurfs but very vicious very hard drinkers basically based on a Scottish clan really heavy drinkers
are one man army one feagle army and that they get drunk all the time in the fight all the time
and at one point the cock cock drunkin and the excuse was I feel you can when you've had enough
when you've had some of the booths that's when you think you want some better the boost than
then when you have some more the boosts that's when you realize you've heard too much of the
boost and because then you've heard too much of the boosts that's when you're fondoing something
like that. That's when you're what? That's when you i you've heard too much of the boost
and that's when you realize you're falling down.
Oh, right. Okay. Falling down. All right.
Yeah. It's basically drunken too much with it realizing it.
And then to take you to realize it, you're already steaming drunk.
We've all been there. Oh, yes, we have.
And by the way, 5150, it's funny that you mentioned
seeing so many favorite people, so many of your favorite people on the channel.
Because as I look down the list of names,
there's the little the hearts, you know, that people get when you make them your friend
on on mumble. It's just it's full of hearts all down my screen.
Sounds like I've joined in loving here. You bet, yeah.
Yeah, I'm going to say if we're not the harsh, I don't see any of them.
All I see is people, uh, some people with seas next to them names.
You bastard. So that was me. That was me. Oh, I want, I wanted that.
What's your name? And the Russians ever got together and formed the next
superpower. The world would be host if they could ever get out of the pups.
They should have like one of those drinking contests like
it did in Raiders of the Lost Ark.
Uh, dude, we don't want that. The Germans drink beer.
Have you seen the size of the paints?
You bet, Evan paints the, oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
That's alcohol poisoning. Have you seen the size of their paint glasses?
Isn't that a mature paint? Those giant things they have?
Uh, I think there's something like three liters or something like that.
I think it's a huge thing, huge big thing.
Oh, no, that's no. They don't, they don't have drinking.
The Irish call that a shot glass.
So how long has this been going on for then?
Oh, we're drinking.
It's worth a year.
No, I mean, uh, this particular one though.
Oh, yeah, we've been talking for 10 AM Zulu.
So we can have fireworks, my end probably.
I don't think that's fireworks. I hope that as soon as about Zulu was mentioned,
I hope that was the way the Zulu is attacking.
It's all, all I could think of was Michael Fein trying to show up the boundaries and barricade the windows.
Those are cool fireworks.
They sound like someone's banging on a 55 gallon steel drum.
That's exactly what I thought.
Well, that's still, that's living in London for you.
39 minutes in and they're still going off.
That's the, that's the midges looking for an escape route.
Super midges.
Super power of midges.
You're looking for an escape route from the old gun.
I used to live across the street from a trailer park and the fireworks would go off
every Friday after the 4th of July.
Yeah, it's been pretty much non-stop here since they went on sale for, um,
November 5th.
So that, so sort of late October until now, it's been more or less constant.
I'm actually kind of surprised you guys have fireworks.
I didn't think gunpowder was allowed in your whole country.
No, it's very strictly controlled.
Well, not really.
You have to buy it from certain licensed vendors, but I'm pretty sure it's illegal to start
opening them up and put them into tubes of metal and stuff.
But if you use them as directed, it's perfectly legal.
It's always amusing to me how strictly controlled fireworks are.
And you go and buy them from a store with like confetti streamers and explosions on their sign.
Well, that's cool.
And some of the shadiest people you will ever meet in your life.
Oh, yeah, these are just carnies who think they've stepped up.
Oh, really?
It's the proper licensed, well, mostly supermarkets that stuff weigh by them now in this country.
I'm back.
And he has finally showed up after hours of saying people saying he was going to be here.
Not clothed too has shown up.
Oh, my dear Lord.
Yes.
Oh god, not another Kiwi.
Really?
Who?
God, I don't know.
I don't know.
Are you there?
Glad to?
We're all waiting for you.
Well, we've had one Kiwi all night, but now the good Kiwi is shown up.
Yeah, on the bad one.
Oh, I was listening a few days ago.
I don't know if I came into the room.
Yeah, I think I came into the mumble room to see if it has started yet.
And I heard what must have been a stream of last year's recording.
There was a Kiwi talking now.
I'm not sure who that was.
Probably me.
Uh-huh, talking about, um, Majaya, I think.
It probably was me.
I was calling to Majaya, baby.
Yeah.
Oh, uh, yeah.
Could have been a chat we had or something.
Last year.
I think it was a Kiwi in an Englishman.
So that would make sense to you.
There would be me then.
And probably Marcus, who's on the thing now.
So this is all being recorded then, is it?
Aye.
Yeah.
So to be relating, is it six hour chunks or something?
Oh, we'll figure it out.
I think the way it works out is I'm afraid,
Ken's, Ken's going to get stuck with it again.
But he's reserved eight slots.
So that works out like two, four hour slots and the rest of them three.
So I think it's just, it's a safety assume that the HPR is your special.
It's going to be all of it has been recorded.
And then all of it's going to be doubled out in various chunks.
Of roughly related conversation episodes.
So anything you say on it tonight,
there'll be preserved for the posterior or for the posterior.
I say, I know, is the role to keep it safe work?
Do we not f and blind?
No, necessarily not necessarily.
No, he's just been commenting on how Thistleweb has managed a record of not doing that
so far.
Basically, come on, come on, come on.
I wouldn't exactly say the record.
That's, that's, that's, that's inflating it beyond its importance.
I'm just saying, I've, I've, I've, did not this where?
Did you listen to the segments you were in on last year's show?
I don't remember the segments.
I was in my shoes.
They wasn't to them.
But yes, tonight, I've, I've been super conscious of the fact that it's a not safe
for what thing and I'm really trying not this where the way I like to think of it is
that it's all going to be, I mean, it's all going to live streamed anyway,
but it's also all going to go out as a podcast.
So don't say anything you wouldn't like the world to hear you saying has yourself.
I remember talking about Shots last year to do a Stryer or something.
I don't know this, this, this, just better.
Sharts that must have been when I stepped out of the room.
Thank God I missed that.
Hey everybody.
That, there was some good take last year.
Thank you.
Glad to.
Glad to.
Hey, how's it going?
So I hear some of you guys are still not in the new year.
I am nice.
I am very slow.
You're living in the future, man.
How was 2015?
Well, it's very progressive here.
Oh, it's great.
It's fantastic.
We have flying cars and hoverboards.
So just wait.
Oh, man.
What about the girl on the white outfit?
Ain't it not calm?
Start stuff that.
What we really want to know is, is it really?
This is not safe.
No, no, it's not.
So apparently all of Florida's dry and it's only raining on my house right now.
That's not rain.
That's an invisible giant.
Have my pee.
We're about to do.
We're about to do not.
I can't even say your name.
It's calling not.
We're about to do not.
Glad to.
Oh, I'm in New Zealand.
Wellington.
New Zealand.
Well, I'm in Newcoma.
Oh, okay.
Cool.
I think I drove sort of past that yesterday.
I was coming down from Ytoma.
We were on the side.
So everyone just dry past us.
So, let's see.
Were you the one that rescued the man and woman that got locked in the keyless car?
Yeah, that was me actually.
I went up there to them and helped them out.
I heard about that.
That was really absurd.
Is it true?
It was Peter 64 and his wife?
That was, I was shocked when I found it out.
But yeah, it was, it was them.
I don't know if they want me saying that or not.
Did you drive from Wellington to Washington?
There's not a four-hour drive.
No, it's just a six.
There are a five-hour, 45-minute drive.
And yeah, we drove up and
toured the caves and went on bushwalks.
It was a lot of fun, actually.
It was worth it.
Hey, Clay-Too, do you drive fast?
I wouldn't, the roads here are insanely
curvaceous.
You really can't drive fast.
Plus, the signage in New Zealand is bizarre.
They'll go from like 50k an hour to like 100k an hour.
That's true.
There's lots of passing lines now.
There used to be a lot of
ways to do this.
But get the places raised way quickly.
No.
See, the one thing I always heard about New Zealand was that the
the tarmac or macadam or however you say it, whatever,
nationality you're in.
It's made out of the indigenous volcanic rock.
So it's incredibly grippy.
And it's a place that if you're a motorcycle rider and you happen to visit,
you have to rent a motorcycle because it's so grippy.
You can just fly through the roads,
but that it grinds your tires down at about half the time that it does in the states.
And road rash is twice as abrasive.
Yeah, but you don't fall.
The road's so much grippier.
You're not going to slide.
Oh, okay.
Well, let's go and just roll around.
Yeah, that's what you, that's what you think.
We have a lot more because it was New Zealand.
Everyone just walked everywhere.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
What's up, Married?
I haven't been anywhere.
I'll tell you what, I'll just,
to hop in a car and she just drives me.
All right.
She's the reason why people walk every bit in New Zealand
is that it's caught up in a lot of the things.
They want the Hobbit experience.
Yeah, they're on a quest.
Yeah, exactly.
There's a lot of flutes in the atmosphere.
Yeah, exactly.
Someone to walk the one joke.
They want to walk the more button bike.
That's something that's actually quite funny.
Has anyone heard about that?
About the running time of the Hobbit movie?
That you can read the book faster than you can watch the movie.
With the total running time of the cinematic releases,
the Hobbit movies take eight and a half hours to watch.
You can actually read the original book in five and a half hours.
What about, what about this one to the audio book?
I believe that too.
The country reading is all his fault.
I cannot comment anything related to Hobbit.
You can't comment at all?
Not at all.
Oh, that's...
It's going to be good.
It's almost going on.
I can't comment.
You can imagine...
Did you ruin it?
You can imagine it being like a Kiwi tourist advisory thing
or hunting parties, yeah?
This is what did you know?
Did you not see the New Zealand Airlines
safety video?
Yeah, yeah.
That was pretty funny.
That was stunning.
Of note, but that seems class is great fun.
Seriously, I will find the link.
When and watch the movie,
you could not comment about it at all.
Period.
Well, we had a crew screening,
but yeah, I cannot comment on the movie itself.
Who can you comment on your job?
Probably not, but it's a great job,
and I'm having a lot of fun,
and I'm using Linux all day long.
Are you doing that mean?
Do you have a starring role in the movie?
Are you doing any of the artwork
or are you just running...
I shouldn't say just.
Are you running servers?
Are you doing art?
What can help us out here for those of us not up to speed?
It's Python and Linux all day,
so it's a bunch of...
It's the digital side of things.
So, yeah, I'm not like manipulating models and stuff.
Really, they do one at the New Zealand ahead.
No, I need it by the way, I'm on the phone with this time.
You want my number, just give me a year.
Wait a second.
So, you were urban camping on the set of the hobby?
I have fun to prove that.
Oh, dude!
Yeah, we got to say that, that's cool.
Which smog really like?
I have photos of that as well.
Oh my god, I have to see this,
man, are you staying there?
Are you coming back to the States, ever?
Oh, no, he just drives back and forth from Pennsylvania.
Hang on a minute, hang on a minute.
It drives back and forth from Pennsylvania to New Zealand.
What can we do with this?
It's the underwater driving car.
This underwater driving car
that Peter Jackson needs, probably.
Oh, yeah.
This is the thing.
Why did not, why did everyone not know
five minutes after he announced he was going to New Zealand for work?
Who Clare 2 would be working for?
Ah, I bet.
What, I don't understand this.
What, I don't understand this.
That movie wrapped like a year ago, didn't it?
Why are you still there?
Post-production, dude, it takes longer than you think.
But it's out now.
They also do, Peter Jackson's got this whole thing
from Lord of the Rings, where he puts the cinema version out
and then six months later, he's still working on the extended car.
Also, he's following that same part
and for the Hobbit as well.
Also, that company does a lot of work
besides just the Hobbit films.
Is there anything on that series at the moment, I think?
It's so far, it's amazing.
It's all amazing.
Yeah, where a digital was set up for the Hobbit,
but it's almost like an ALM.
We do lots and lots of other stuff as well.
Can I make a shocking animation?
I can just see it on the set of the Hobbit.
Okay, so one way Clot 2 up, we've got a scene to shoot.
I think I'm the only QA's, never done anything in the Hobbit.
I don't know.
Clot 2, I got a question.
Are you going to appear anywhere in the credits
and is the nature of the job when the movie's over?
So are you and you come back or is there more projects?
I guess a lot of people do get hired on a project basis,
but I'm not.
I'm just hired by the company itself,
so I span a bunch of different projects.
And yeah, I think my name is in the credits somewhere in the Hobbits,
in the third one, the one that just came out.
That's awesome.
I was going to say I'm going to see the reason I'm going to watch it.
I'm guessing...
Stand up and cheer in the theater when your name comes up.
I swear to God.
I'm guessing...
And make sure you take the selfie doing it.
I'm guessing Clot 2, you're working on project infrastructure, basically.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm actually five foot six, so if you know, Peter,
he even wants another Hobbit, I'm near.
Oh my God, I'm taller than somebody.
I knew that top would do.
I'm not fussing about the pay.
Is that with or without the hair?
I think I've got here, but I don't care.
It's without the hair, but it's with the helmet.
Yeah, it rich me that...
Rather cutting comment about whether Clot 2 was in the movie,
so it's not like his peg wall.
Hey, Clot 2, is your ass getting chapped yet from everyone kissing it?
Well, I've got something to say to that,
and that is that I have never seen a single Lord of the Rings,
or Hobbit movie, or read the books, because I have absolutely no interest.
By the box sets, who's a week of your life?
No, I tried to watch the first one.
I downloaded the first one, started watching it,
and I just wished I'd never bought it.
It was just terrible.
Watched about 10 minutes, and I said,
no, I've had enough of this.
Just a big hit.
As a fat person?
As a fat person, I can't stand to watch people walk that much.
The first five suck, but they had some new hires for the last one,
and it got way better.
Kissing that chest right now.
I could never get through the books, because 200 pages into
the first Lord of the Rings, the Fellowship,
they were still standing around in Frodo's driveway.
You know, actually, that's one of the things that got me into computers,
was the back when I was sort of eight, nine at school.
We had a bunch of BBC Micros at school,
and we had the Hobbit text adventure game on them.
Did I play that?
I remember that at school.
That was a classic.
I can never get anywhere in it.
I think I walked down the road that was bad.
I got as far as smog, and I always died.
Oh, wow, that you got far.
I could never get...
Yeah, there was like a river in it, I think, that I could never get past.
Spoiler alert, but smogs at the end.
Well, not just...
Yeah, I guess in the book he is, huh?
That's like my attitude.
I got a Lincoln profile, not...
Not, I should, um, post my, like...
Profile.
I love how everyone kept bitching at Martin Friedman about giving away spoilers.
It's like, well, the books have been out about 70 years.
Yeah, I always kind of felt that spoiler alerts for the movies were very odd,
and like people getting upset about it,
it's just...
It shouldn't count if the book exists.
No, it really doesn't, if you haven't.
Especially for more than half a century.
Well, okay, there's plenty of books that have been out for more than half a century
that I haven't read, but the Lord of the Rings is really, really good.
You don't have any excuse for not reading those books.
Well, yeah, that's an American.
As an American,
rethinking Lord of the Rings is if it's really good.
I think it actually may have been a detriment to sci-fi and fantasy.
How so?
Here comes a frog stall.
In the end, it's a nice, safe world, always.
And at the end,
when you've gone out and you've had this big, massive adventure,
you can just go home and act like nothing's changed.
Operative, operative wood, world.
Have you read the Silmarillion?
Yeah, I was going to ask.
Not quite too.
Any plans on Silmarillion movies?
Not going to happen.
Would you let him not comment?
No, have you read the Silmarillion thing?
You couldn't do the Silmarillion as a film.
It's a written history of the world the Tolkien created.
It couldn't be done as a single or even series of films.
That's what they said about the film.
But Charlton Heston gave it a shot.
Oh, that's what they said about the watchman.
Now, the watchman was doable.
It was just but done badly.
Yeah, I agree with that.
I should agree with that one.
Green lantern?
No, I don't like that either.
That was, that was just a big tumble.
Sorry, I screwed that up.
You know what I'm afraid?
There's a key in it.
So that, that, Lord of the Rings,
I've just, I've just sat in, sorry, I tuned out
and watched that safety thing.
Lord of the Rings thing, I was brilliant.
But one of the books that I think would make a brilliant,
brilliant TV show or movie series of whatever,
if it was done properly and only if it was done properly
as the Dark Tower by Stephen King.
Oh, yeah, I agree with that.
I actually, I'm going to read one of the books.
I can't remember which one though.
We have, are they netting it into a TV series?
It's so many rooms.
Oh, God, yeah.
It's one of those, it's one of those things
that sat in production held.
The rights have been in, in negotiation for a long, long time.
Yeah, the Dark Tower is one of those
that truly means the word epic,
just to score the scope and the scale of the Dark Tower
as unbelievable.
Yeah, a lot of travel line.
Though I, I personally still think
Stephen King jumped the shark in the last book
and in the last book, at least I am one of the only people I know
who, when Stephen King says in the book,
stop here if this was your intent to reach this point
when I started this, I stopped.
I did not go past that, into that last section.
Yeah, the ending was very contentious.
Yeah, I don't know, I understand that.
And yeah, the Dark Tower, it's one of those things.
Stephen King is one of these authors
where not all of his stuff is brilliant.
But there's a few, a few Stephen King stories
that everyone should read from the Dark Tower series
is one of them.
And for my money, it hurts not to land this.
How long is the Dark Tower series?
I mean, I've been looking for good Stephen King
and have yet to find it.
Seven books.
Yeah, it's seven books that are like 500 pages minimum each.
That one had red, too.
I'm just going to read the first one.
But to get into it, I was just going to read the first one.
To make an audio book.
The, the, the, oh yes, there is an audio book
and the guy who voices it is excellent.
And quite honestly, you could read the first two, maybe three books
and be fairly content with the series.
I despise the fact that in the seventh book
that Harry Potter got dragged into the series.
Wait, what?
What?
Yeah, that's not my, not my recollection.
No, I don't remember that.
This is her private fanfic.
There are references to the golden snitches
at least at the end of the, oh yeah, the last book.
Yeah, the whole thing is, yeah, you're right.
You're right.
Now you mentioned it.
There are some mentions of that.
But then again, it brings in a lot of culture
from other worlds.
I mean, right in the very first book,
you've got the tune that's playing in the,
in the, in the, I was going to see the Cantina.
The tavern, hey, Jude.
The tavern, yeah, exactly.
It's he Jude, which in our world
is done by the Beatles in 1969 or whatever.
And this other world is written by someone else.
And because it's other worlds than these.
So yeah, I mean, of course,
there's all these things that are pulled in
from modern culture.
And one of those big things in modern culture,
that's Harry Potter.
So absolutely.
I don't have any problems with that.
But you're right, the snitches brought into it.
Who can tell me what this thing is?
Yeah, I can tell you the single.
When this award mentioned the Cantina,
I could, I was going to say, the tune was playing.
Du t doin, du di di du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du
du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du du, you're doing it on your ass.
How would weいた.
Say it again. He didn't quite get it right so it doesn't count. Oh, I was making a bad joke in my head
It was right, but coming out of my mouth
Why don't you just do it?
Why don't you just do it?
I can't beat that
I should hear me y'all
About like things being in there. I mean the dark tower is what holds all these worlds together and
In certain places it bleeds together especially there, but there are places like the thinnies where
It continues to just bleed through because it's like the fabric of reality is just weakening
Yeah, that's so everybody that's been talking about this. How's it in how is it not having sex?
How is it? What not having sex because you're all giant dorks
Know the ice that I've never seen any of this stuff
You're lumped in with us now, Joe
It's not us. It's not us first, but you start to get used to it and you pretend that it's okay
And every once in a while some big jerk points out to you that you're not having sex and it kind of hurts some more
Well, I can say it's it takes one to no one
Um, my next big reading project probably gonna be some books on kimbakku. So was he in Star Wars?
No
Doesn't he run North Korea?
No, he runs a file sharing site
Latte you're gonna have to explain it to him
Basically Japanese
Rope art
To make it friendly
Yes, to make it not friendly BDSM
Okay, now I get it
Well, it'd be more accurate to say just rope bondage and there's a lot of history into it
Where you can actually trace back to some of it goes all the way back to the feudal era and how complicated a tie was
Was associated with how important a person was
Great guys now we just lost England
Oh
Wait, I don't get it
Our porn lawyers got tightened up for no apparent reason recently and basically excluded just about anything from
Like neckties like anything
Right squirting face sitting if I'm allowed to say that sort of thing
Yes, you are anything like that
Only say it, but then a sexier voice. Yeah, basically
Basically, Joe, you're encouraged to say anything that might make you blush
We also have to say happy new year we just crossed the
The international happy new year line
No, that was an hour ago
Obviously we controlled all time in the world. I'm afraid
Yeah, we did it then too, but happy new years
Kate Verde
Some regions of Greenland and one more. Well, that was really lazy. Oh, yeah, before four minutes late anyway, but happy new year
Yeah, happy new year
Happy new year before the new year
England died from anyway London baby
The big smoke yeah, I'm all self, but yeah, what do you feel?
Let's see what South Cork say
Well, not not
Well, like that's to yourself
Bit further down. Yeah
It's a county man from London
Yeah, two hours away from London. I say which county man
I'll keep the top secret
because
That doesn't matter. Actually, you're from England as well, aren't you? Yeah, man. Maybe not. We're about to you. I'm down in Kent
No, Kent's keep it's Kent's not really around here
Secret G.H. CQ of London
The only thing I know about the Britain at all is fucking so than Ferris
Oh job. You don't ruin the record of not cursing
Well, see this is this is where it gets ridiculous. I I grew
Up north where they used to say that and it never sounded like that and
People only said that when they'd grown up up north and decided to go south for work
Yep. Yeah, see all these guys are Southern
So I don't know what the whole right man
Any know as a real saying we saw in a movie look just just because for you iron brew isn't an import
Yeah, and and fearless everything and England was a Southern from me
So yeah, everything from the
Yeah, that's true. That's true. Hey, I got a New Zealand question for Klaatu since he wasn't born there
He he might have a different perspective than the locals. You still there Klaatu? Yep, I'm here. How are the sheep?
And what context? I mean you talk we're eating or um all of fun. Ask him. Ask a Welsh immigrant
I was gonna let the the guy I asked pick the context he most
Disneyer to answer about
They're they're the wool that people shore that sheer from them is very warm when integrated into clothing
Excellent. Excellent. So here you are polkae trying to trying to
We just raised back up out of the gutter and here you are trying to drag us again, but
Sorry, we were anywhere wool suits. I know how much he enjoys that. He I saw him. I know if he was in the three piece
I was going to say shows in the gutter. I was gonna say that sheep are very warm
But I thought that might be a little bit too open of an answer. So I decided to be very specific
Well done, too. I think I just think I'm the wrong part of this conversation
Yeah, there's no right way to enter this
Yeah, you're gonna come up. Yeah, you're gonna
Should we drag it out?
And make it a little bit meta maybe and um, so presumably you guys listen to HPR
But apart from that what other podcasts do you guys like
I'm on an excellent ice obviously. Yes. All right. I'm famous in here. Yes
By the way, Joe
I do feel that I should apologize for something because the other person won't
A while back a cast member of the Linux link tech show decided to send you guys a link telling you to vote for them as the most interesting developer in the world
And I pray that you didn't actually do that
When I just got like these I got one email then another one saying hey ignore it
And I was like what the heck is going on and just kind of like I've no idea what's happening right now and then this has an interesting history with aircraft
Yeah, I'm gonna see you the email saying don't do it. Okay
But
In recommended your your podcast as a good Linux podcast. Oh, excellent. Well, I didn't ask for that reason
I asked for the very reason that I have got nothing to listen to right now. My podcast Q is empty
I'm going back listening to old Hollywood Babylon's
um and like
Everything seems to be
Around this time of year most people stop producing content and around this time
He is the time that I consume the most content because my girlfriend's been away for two weeks just got back
Man, I would recommend I would recommend one called a new world order
Yeah, but never checked it out
Well, there's always that one
Well, yes, it's a start producing content thing about that one too
Yeah, I mean there's this it's some guy with a weird name makes that show
But you've got some interesting stuff he talks about
Then I think this will recommend me a video cast
I think
I think this will where we recommend his aim podcast
I recommend that one as well
There's a lot of tech advice doesn't really happen anymore, I think
and
I'm meaning to listen to the next voice podcast actually since I've been in the magazine
I've met the guys from the next voice magazine and I'm thinking yeah, I should actually listen to podcasts probably as well
But what do you mean them? I'll count them
Yeah, yeah, yeah
As well that that luck as well before that
Well, I might call my comment was about to begin at the risk of a widening self-promotion
We don't want to do that. I just released the latest privilege tonight or this afternoon
And it was recorded two weeks ago to be fair, but it just so happens to be
Scheduled for looseners very first, so I did
What's the code? It's called clevens. You haven't seen unseen studio.co.uk
Post the link, man
Yeah, posting that
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
If it's still getting there's also tux jam by his co-host, which is also a good one
Okay, can I recommend one that's entirely not
Technical at all by all maps?
The the crab feast if you haven't heard that one is excellent. It's a couple of professional comedians
Who interview other professional comedians and they just tell funny stories and whatever story one of them
Reminds somebody else of another funny story and these sort of professional
Funny storytellers and it is hilarious. That sounds very much like the dog stand-hop podcast
I don't know if you've heard of a comedian called dog stand-hop American. He's been on that one. Oh, he's been on it. Okay. Yeah
For me two more two more comedy podcasts. I'd recommend is Keith and the girl and
Distorted view podcast. Oh god. Yes
For me, I think part of the reason why I'm not an IRC. I'm not on
Mumble or not. I've kind of zoned out of a lot of techy stuff over the last year
It is because I kind of realized that I was building up such a queue
I was surprised with so many podcasts that I didn't get time to do anything
I was getting less and less interested in technical stuff one x-y stuff techy stuff that you know that kind of thing
And I was getting more and more interested in writing and I just found that I cannot when I write I need to write in science
I cannot write with music on I cannot write with any podcasts on I need to concentrate throwing that yeah
And I found that the best way to do that is what you want to do more and I decided I'm gonna
I mean as much as I like a lot of these a lot of these podcasts unsubscribe unsubscribe unsubscribe and I got rid of all
What are them and the only technical podcasts I'll listen to now are tech snap or
Yeah, yeah, that's that's pretty good. Yeah, and one extra action show although
I
Watch his face the
Matt drives me nuts
Yeah, I stopped listening to us when
London was still on it so I don't know both of them drove me nuts. Well, actually I mean
Well, yeah, fair enough. Yeah, and I think I'm close to unsubscribe from last but tech snap is brilliant
Text well, Alan jude is an absolute genius. I mean he really knows the stuff. He totally is and he's the kind of guy that all of the things
I don't like a bit one exactly sure that the the sound board and
Yeah, the salesman gimmick Alan Alan has none of that exactly. He's just yeah, I mean he just sort of says
I'm on if I'm on my show you're not going to do any of that. Yeah
Even Chris for any occasionally accidentally hits the sound board. He's apologizing and see. I don't even know
Yeah, yeah
The only thing I'll say about Alan jude is like
He could lighten up a little bit and have a bit more fun
It's it seems to be like the information that he puts across is absolutely brilliant and he's really confident speaker and everything
But he could do with being a little bit funnier here and there just to break it up a little bit and Chris tries
But it's I think it's a bit. I mean, I haven't listened to it for a while to be fair. So maybe they've got better with it
Um, I think you need to inject a little bit of humor because it is entertainment at the end of the day
Well, I've got the other thing you have to remember about Alan jude is he is, you know
An ex-college professor. So I think that is a lot of dictates how he does that show
He's almost hitting that, you know, professor mode when he's kind of been crowd teaching. Yeah, yeah
It's very for podcasts is pod nuts dot com
Pod nuts
Pod nuts never heard of them. Yeah, they do
I'm glad I'm glad to see you. I actually has door to door geek been on. I had
I don't think we're his crowd anymore. Oh, what'd you do to him?
This is his anniversary. He's never been on for that reason
Why we didn't tell me about it
Well, I'm we're going to toss out there different. I know which is
Kind of one I enjoy hanging out with
We don't talk about that one in existence anymore. That one's awful
We keep trying to bring it back to nobody's it nobody's put together at the right time. Hey
I don't know if you guys really trying to kill it
But 330 and pegwala are in the same room together. Of course, it's a virtual room, but which are you talking about yeah
Devor random all right
Rich you ought to try being in in an actual room with the two of them. Yeah, it gets interesting
Yeah, that's just too disturbing a thought. I'll pass on it
Although
I want to say hi to Hansi's irate and hide the Lord D because I haven't talked to you guys in a while
Oh, hey, but before we get off topic. I was trying to get a list of the
Topics that were mentioned
Um, I got new world order Kriven's touch jam crab feast Keith and the girl distorted view text now
Uh, what did I miss last
Linux session
No, I'm not
The entirety of tell them Steve Dave
There's absolutely loads of them and I was thinking
There was that one that John O'Bacon's not in the now form that's called
Yeah, that's it bad voltage that's another one. I haven't heard it yet myself, but yeah
Obviously my two
Linux Loddites and Mintcast
Can I recommend a couple that aren't tech related? I don't know. Can you
Well, I could but you know if if anyone's interested
But I think things like small customs and tell them Steve Dave
Have already been mentioned and they are far from dedicated some guests and the bars already been set so go ahead
Yeah, yeah, okay, okay, sorry folks. They're it's subber times. I'll I'll be back in a few
I know what
Good answer a few showers hours maybe shakes of a lamb's tail. I don't know
Now I'll back on the sheep again. I'll tell you
What's with the theme
No, it's a new tattoos
Cloud who's been hanging out with sheep
No, but there are a couple of podcasts so recommend that aren't tech related, but quite
Fun and can be informative one is called nose
One is called no such thing as a fish. Oh, yeah, the QI people yeah, yeah, and it's by
It's by the guys who call themselves the QI elves
They're the fact researchers that do that find all of the facts that are usually presented in QI by Stephen Fry
But they record their podcast completely independently of the show
The other one I would recommend is called tank riot
And they only usually get an episode out about once a month
But they
They take a goodly amount of time like it's two three hours at least usually and they explore a single subject
And it's usually like a historical figure or a particular event in history or a particular sort of cultural
Phenomenon and they go through it quite carefully and trace the history of it all it's it's usually pretty good
You search through their stuff and I guarantee everyone will find one thing that they've rift that rift about for two three hours that they'll find interesting
Well, I've got another three actually that are more politically
Mindy. Oh dear. Well, no, no
Uh, first there's unfilter or by a jipper broadcast and
Oh, no gender light
Yeah, I find it quite interesting
So it's politics and it's by Jupiter Broadcasting
Actually check check it out. It's actually quite decent
I listened to one of them once and it was okay, but it just seemed to me that it's
Pretty much just Chris's attempt at a no agenda ripoff really
Uh, the normal show we didn't say
Yeah, I don't like that. I don't like the production values on that for some reason
Well, the other one was lead none to the other one of those two actually two of lead none to
I was born from Dan Carlin.com. Oh, yes
Definitely. Yeah, but of course since it's brilliant. Yeah, hard hard called history as unbelievably good. Yeah, Paddy from
Linux, Linux, Linux, I'd like to see recommends Dan Carlin. So I keep meaning to check him out, but I keep forgetting
That was just anybody
Listen to Joe Rogan experience. I was about to suggest that one along with the uh the Doug stay-in-hope podcast which we mentioned
Yeah, stuff you missed in history class stuff. You should know stuff to blow your mind
Bill burrs of Monday morning podcast my brother my brother and me
Saul bones
See WTF with Mark Marin
And that's the end of it. There's a couple of Linux ones. Someone was making a list. Uh don't forget Linux voice
And did they check it twice
Well
And uh Ubuntu UK. Well if they continue without Tony which remains to be seen
You don't like anyone in this show that'll ruin your life
Do not recommend the show. I think that you're about to do it
All right, so there's the show called dvd as a
uh
It's a uh an artist and a porn star and a bunch of their friends
Sounds like a must listen
By the way, also second stuff you should know that uh the peg will mention another one is
That whole thing's good another one as well that's uh actually peg will put me on to and I did
Subscribe for a while. I didn't listen for a while. It was good. It's just I wanted it was caught up in the call
Basically, yeah, it was good as a good podcast is the bugle. Oh, yeah, forget about that one. Yeah, I've heard of that one
Yeah, we must learn to send a hamster
Amen
So what was this about? I mean, I don't I didn't follow you by the UK podcast
I listened to it once or twice or whatever, but um, what was this about Tony leaving or
To what we want to say. I don't know about this one. It's not that. I mean, he just Tony Whitmore is the guy who I believe
Yeah, I've met him at all camp as well
Yeah, yeah, he started it and he did all of the audio stuff like he ran the mixer of stuff and over the last year
He's been less and less involved he went to crime amount and somewhere in Africa
I can't remember where and sort of left the others in charge of the mixer and there was a few
dodgy audio shows and um
Uh
It's a podcast like that. Yeah, and so he announced on the end of the last one of the season
That he was leaving and going off to push you other
interests and so he's left
Three of them um Alan Pope Popey who presumably most of you know
I met him as well on that. Yeah. Yeah. He's a canonical employee developer on the phone, I think
um
Mark Johnson who organized our camp and is a really cool guy met him a few times. Uh, he
Uh, he's a developer as well
knows the stuff
And Laura who I think is like a UX person. I'm not exactly sure what she does
But I know she's not a developer and so they kind of have left those three
But it seemed to all be
focused around talk
Around Tony he was like organizing it all and so without him
I'm not sure like how it could continue without an extra person
Which is a real shame because I really liked it. I mean
It it was fairly a bunch of focused as you'd expect obviously
But they did talk about other stuff as well and it's kind of like a
Ubuntu fanboys view on the rest of Linux and open source and the internet and all that stuff
So it was quite good
It'll be shame if they don't do it again, but um as I've got feeling in my bones that they might not do it again without Tony
Which will as I say will be a shame, but you never know
Yeah, I subscribe for quite a while
And I eventually got a bit tired of it. I mean no similarly decent people
I mean don't get that on. I just it was one of those where when when I decided to call a lot of podcasts
That was one of the easier ones to just call
Yeah, I mean, it seemed like a really nice people, you know. Oh, yeah, I mean
Yeah, yeah, the yeah, the decent decent people, but this won't really make on the podcast
But if you want to stay and listen to podcasts that much anyway, so
So yeah, didn't listen to that one
All right, so I'm pretty hard to tell you what was sound bad to some of you actually
saying all this
Even the famous the most outlaw's podcast now I am actually listening to that
Uh, probably about once or twice again for every reason it's just like so many want to listen to music on the computer as well
Not podcasts. You're honest, so yeah
Yeah, I was gonna bring it out. She let Linux
Outlaws what what are people's thoughts are is anyone as sad as me that they're knocked it on the head
Very much
Let me interject your guys. I just posted
again the shared ether pad
into
Hash all-cast planet and for those you going on on it. It's HTTP cold slash slash
HPR dot e pad dot black sparrow media dot net
colon
9,000 slash to
I
Would very much like everybody who has
You know mentioned a podcast if you would jump in there and you know at afterwards says
Uh, I guess we're on uh, I just had it. Well, I guess it's one o'clock GMT
No, you know, go find
25 25
126 no, I yeah, but I mean in the show it the line it
But the appropriate line to follow is uh is uh, one o'clock GMT go in there and post your links because
dang if I'm going to you know, remember them all and do it so
You know if you guys at all go in the shared editor and get all these links in there
I think Ken found me much more happy with this. Let me
Well, while I have my key on the button. I want to throw uh
Mine in with with the end of
Linux outlaws. I might suggest as an alternative
Sunday morning Linux review though. It's really on Sunday anymore
But you know, it's a it's a new sort of podcast. It's less ranny
Uh, than fat than fab was, but I mean I you know if you want it if you want to catch the latest Linux news
I think that it that is a
viable alternative and a very good podcast
Let me throw a couple in then I bet you guys are not
PR ended because fab is pursuing his love of guns and three gun competition shooting
Do you mean they're entirely well? I think what they want to do is talk about gaming and politics and not
Fab the fab and then don't want to be for mine. I'm one of
I guess I'm unusual that I've still listened to every episode, but I get the gist that they don't want to be a
they won't they they want to talk about Linux
uh
Occasionally, but they don't want to be tied down. Oh, we've got to track down every
Breaking story about Linux and uh talk about it
But like said enough about L.O. I said I want to throw out a couple one was in uh
You know in the in the last month. I put on the hpr feed and
Uh, that's geek speak at geekspeak.org. It's I think it's a really good general tech podcast
They it's not a Linux podcast, but they're definitely Linux aware
So you know, I I always enjoy listening at show and one that you are probably
Not at all familiar with and public this is your fault
That that I am uh
Followed in this a lot of people know
guilty guilty
Yes, after uh
After we started uh
You know this summer we did or we did the book review on
Downing out in the magic kingdom and that kind of ignited my
Interesting Disney because I realized I've been the Disneyland and Disney world
But I didn't I didn't remember actually any of the rides. I mean, I thought well, I don't I don't remember
I knew it was closed on the Disneyland the the haunted mansion, but I didn't I didn't remember
You know, really what was like I thought I'd been on a Disney world
Which Disney will
I started ride through and that led to podcasts to do so, you know kind of Disney history
Or rather YouTube videos and this this is really a new podcast
Uh, and I've I've got pending
You know rather than what's in my pod catcher what you know what YouTube channels. I'm subscribed to
And this is gonna be one of them, but this this is off of a YouTube channel
Uh, the live fast die poor podcast and the best link to that
Because they're they're throwing them up on YouTube, but it's just like a static picture in audio
Uh, so if you just want the audio you don't want to rip the audio out
You can go to www.banfordproductions.com
slash lfdp slash podcast.xml
and uh, you know really it is if there's there's some Disney talk, but
They've got four episodes up and it's pretty much just a bunch of geeks geeking out and they're
You know, they're just funny as heck and you know if I've been sitting in the chair when I was listening to him
Where they've been out on the farm
I would have fallen straight out of my chair especially the second and third
episodes the first one's a little
A little weaker, but if you if you want to start and see how
Uh, see how that podcast is progressing start start with episode two the dark side of my tears
But you know, I it I you know, I don't think I'm sure you're wrong
I think if you listen those you will just laugh yourself silly
What I um, I
Missed the name of the podcast that you were talking about 501 50
Well, if you go to the live fast die poor channel on youtube
You will you'll come across them, but essentially it's just an audio track of a static picture
like people do with
music videos or or
uh
movie themes or something like that
So if you just want the raw
mp3 podcasting, you know, you don't want to rip out the audio to put it on your player
You want to go to
www.bamferproductions.com
slash
LFDP slash podcast.xml and that's that's the feed channel and bamfers just like just like it
I don't know where to get it, but it's it's just spelled just like you would say it b-a-m-f-e-r
Joe you by main road or something?
Yes, sorry, don't me to mute it when I'm not talking
Let's just come and courtesy, man
No, just so you like
It just kind of I had a pang moment of Linux outlaw is that because it was like every time I hear a van going past
It's like it used like it used to be on L.O when the ice cream van would go past dance place
Yeah, so I'll mute
It probably if you you could eliminate the problem if you switch to
Press the talk or push the talk
One podcast one podcast, which I'd like to recommend is called the change log. It's replaced
Floss weekly for me. It has the same style format. It's an interview show
Where they interview different developers and whatnot who create open source software
That sounds good. Oh cool. I had not heard of that one
They're don't focus is or has been in the past ruby
The programming language ruby, but they're branching into other types of projects as well. Are they doing grails?
I haven't heard anything with grails yet a couple podcasts. I'd recommend if you're into
science fiction and horror is escape pod and pseudo pod. Oh, yeah, it's excellent. Yeah, I've heard it's good
Yeah, those are put out by escape artists ink and they also have
At least one other that's fantasy, but I can't remember the name of it and the other one
That's an excellent open source one is source trunk
Yep pod castle is the fantasy one
Now buddy mine is a severe trekkie and he said there there's a couple of trekk podcasts out there that are fantastic
I know he sent the links to me. I don't have muffla top my head does anybody know what they are
Ways of severe trekkie you make it sound like it's an affliction
Severe
is an affliction he knows all of the foreign gay rules of acquisition everything
Yeah, that's definitely an affliction. That's yeah, that's severe
I don't know what podcasts. Yeah, I don't know the trekk podcasts because I don't I don't like listening to other people's thoughts on trekk
But but I do like the new voyages
I don't guess they count as podcasts, but like they're the fan the fan episodes of trekk
Okay, I got to throw this out there. I posted this on my google plus feed and since we diverged a little bit
There's a youtube series of guys putting a foil drive sellica engine and transmission into a classic Cooper
And it's really freaking well done. I got to find the link and post it
So are you saying that he knows all 285 rules of acquisition?
Yes
That was a two joke. I was trying to make a joke. He continuously argues with me that
DS9 is the best show and I'm like wait DS9 is just love boat in space
Oh, I have one other to recommend actually
I'm guessing all of us
Well, I'm guessing I'm guessing most played with a raspberry pie
That's not more than one
Yeah, I'm guessing so
Yes, yes
Okay, raspberry raspberry
raspberry pie today is a pretty good one
And I believe the guy who does it used to write for one of the bigger Linux magazines in print
Um
One thing he tends to get is he actually gets phone interviews with a lot of the people who are producing accessories for the raspberry pie
things like
Extra controller boards cases and other accessories. He actually gets them on the phone
He's had even up to him from the raspberry pie foundation
And also a lot of the people who organized the code jams and events going on that around the raspberry pie as well
I'll put the link in the in the etherpad
Oh come on. Let's bid DS9 was just a ripoff of the pitch for
Oh now I can't think of the name of the show
Thank you gentlemen
Hey, I got one to recommend
I mentioned the adam krola show earlier. He's he's got a bunch of podcasts
So and one of the very best that he has in one of my very favorite podcasts
It's called eights on the house where he's
It's one of his old like buddies from grade school in high school and the guy's a contractor
And they just talk about home improvements and how to get stuff and it's it's pretty good and they keep it pretty funny
I really miss the man show
You'll they bring it there
whistle web is uh CC jams still going well that was a good one
But is he still doing it or are you giving up on that?
Yes, yes it is doing it, but he always wanted that to be a community thing like where other people would submit
Well, yeah, yeah, I heard a few before
Yeah, you just wasn't getting any feedback at all
There wasn't going to be traction on it and he felt that he didn't want to be the one that kept putting out the episodes
He wanted other people to contribute and no one else was very few people would do it
So it's kind of slowed down, but yes, it is still going and it doesn't want to keep it going
I
The CC music is that's not my area of interest at all
And when I do Kriven's I rely on him coming up with the music
And quite often I work well
I listen to the book because I've got a writing partnership with Caroline
And that's our kind of
brainstorming time as an IRC during the bug gas
But I'll grab tunes when the bug gas is on the Friday night
I'll put them in and I was working with the meeting news
But if I don't get anything, it's up to him to do the music
So yeah, it's not my expert my area of expertise at all can't really help them with that
But yeah, it is still going and it does want to keep doing it
No, it was a good idea, yeah, it's a good idea, the basic thing is
I'm going to quickly say what that is because people are wondering what you're talking about
Basically people could pick a piece of credit coming to me then they liked
And then go on then talk about for say 10 minutes maybe 15 minutes
And then that's an episode
But it'll be like it would be like a community thing
But like hey, if I have to submit episodes and
Obviously there wasn't me that many people were new about and so on
But it's only an unseen studio site that fits a weapon with his vocal
So if anyone thinks that's an interesting idea
Hey, how many folks out there remember far escape
I do I like that one
Okay, this will web sounds like a character from one episode of far escape
They're in a space station that's getting uh bombarded by storms
And uh he would the character was the bartender
I want to wake up gentlemen
I've got some bombardment coming to pick up
Haha
Hey, and unfatched unfortunately the character dies in that episode when when the space station gets blown up again again
I resisted and the temptation is fairly I was goody-sweared and I just said no that happens
I love far escape but I do not remember that episode
All right, if you're it was an episode um
they're on a
There's a
Baki religious cult that believed the area of space is sacred and that they should be building stations there
And this is the last of three stations that were destroyed by storms
and there was some crazy um
cult that believe that and they had a way of attracting the storms
and this hot-looking
Black-haired girl
magnetically charged her body to stick to the
Side of the space station and it was attracting the storm and then they ejected the bulkhead that she was attached to
How many episodes
Around did far escape produce like if I wanted to binge watch it on Netflix. Um, I don't know if it's on Netflix anymore
I think there was there's at least four seasons
Yeah, I think it's four seasons
Yeah, I think four seasons in a movie because I
Yeah, it was
Exactly. Yes, and I I watched the peacekeeper wars. I had the box set because
I was I was watching first keep on tv and eventually eventually came to network
Well semi-network tv or around me, so I was watching it
And then as syndicated series do they go in the reruns
And so I didn't watch the reruns and then uh, uh, I when I when I got back to watching it was it was like
Two two seasons later, so I missed the two middle two seasons. I got the box set
I think it was missing a desk
Off of eBay. I never got around the watch. I never got around the watching the whole
Any more so I still need to go
Re-buy the box set
Clat, too. Did you just say that four seasons was not that long of a of a show to binge watch? Did I hear you correctly?
No, you heard me inversely
I said that that that was a bit of a that's a bit of a commitment. Oh, yeah
Yes, it is. He was gonna say the only thing I'm sorry. The only thing I'm seeing on Netflix is the peacekeeper wars
Which is like three hours, I think oh, okay, I thought I could just weren't I saw it on Netflix like because I can't
Okay, too bad. I guess I missed my chance. Oh, yeah, actually force capable was produced in Oz
Yeah, it was kind of odd. It was it was produced by the Jim Ensign company, but it was
Mostly cast and filmed in Australia. There's a lot of TV shows and movies are
filmed in Australia because of the financial reasons some of the matrix was all done in Australia
All the Star Wars people's were done in Australia. Wow
Just so many there's also a lot done in Canada for those reasons
Canadian
Yeah, the same actually stuff a lot of stuff used to get filmed here in the UK for the same reasons in the 90s
Well, it's very funny because what it comes down to it and
I can't say who by one client is but this client is a state and they give all sorts of breaks to
film
production
So another state that's done that is Louisiana sounds like you're talking about Georgia
There name the 48 the I mean the other 49 and we'll figure it out
Yeah, you guys if you listen to tilts you know who I work for
Oh speaking of someone mentioned Jim Henson if anybody is not familiar with
Jim Henson storyteller the first season that is fantastic
Yeah, I remember that classic the second season was okay
But the first season really was good. What blows my mind is Jim Henson died of a
You know, basically had cold symptoms, but it was one of these things that kills you in two days
pneumonia, I thought he died. Yeah, it wasn't pneumonia. It was up to pneumonia
It was like a particular strain of it
Was that rice in to me? No, that wasn't
The pneumonia is a generalized upper respiratory tract issue
Yeah, but it it's funny right at the same time a co-workers dad passed with the same thing
And it you know, it's like yeah, I don't feel good today. I'll just lay in bed. Boom. You're dead
So on a slightly different know. What's everyone's favorite? Um sci-fi TV series. I mean
Lex
Lex was brilliant and bizarre in the last season. Yeah, I've brought Lex up several times on the audiobook club
All of you guys talking about Lex and I haven't seen that
I don't know what I've never heard of what I thought for the years with
What I thought was was main I thought was main actually for a long time was
Was bubble one five. Yeah, really good. I thought I thought bubble and five is class
now turn limits and then I got around to watching a long time after that finished
I got run to watching the reboot of
Barbell's live the light. Oh my gosh. She and that is fantastic
That is absolutely incredible. I get chills when I think about how well that's done
Well, I don't know. I they killed it after they got to the the new you know
What was the season two? I think the end of season two or the one that they had to split up this season
Yeah, I think well no that one I hated. I just I didn't I thought the BSG started to fade pretty quickly after a point
Well, well first off the the original BSG and the BSG
1999 or whatever the hell they called was so horribly horribly bad, but as a kid
I mean it it's space sci-fi and I love that stuff. Yeah, but this
I just love protein, man
Well you're sticking with Jim Henson pigs in space was
That was the best
Well, does anybody remember the show UFO from the late? Yes. Yes
I had that as a box
Okay
To explain tales from an alternate dimension WX fans
That's the actual original title of the show before it changed
Networks and they'd renamed it to the two Lex. Oh really?
So they are
What was it? It's the go whatever
Yeah, I was including that with with Lex. I didn't know that that was called that though
Are there episodes released under the name of tales from an alternate universe that were not released under the name of Lex?
Yes, because like the entire first season of that well
They may have re-released the original season, but the first season was called tales from an alternate or tales from an alternate or a parallel dimension
Something like that and they changed when they changed
Networks switch seasons. They also changed the actor or the actress who played zev. Okay. Yeah, so there was early zev and later zev
How many shows are in season one?
Well, they're for I don't know for Lex with with zev with a with a z
I think it was the first zev there were a bunch of
Movies or like they were releases movies essentially. It was white haired zev then bread haired zev
Yeah, and then there was zev with an ex and she was I if I recall correctly
I mean, I'd have to look at the the files on my hard drive which is not plugged in right now
But they're they're the ones that are actual like episodes like that you and I would think of as ever
So how long did take everybody to realize what the front of the Lex looked like?
Like two seconds three seconds. Oh damn. I'm so stupid. I still have until you'll have to post everything in that show is a double entendre
Oh, yeah, it is wait
There there is a reason that when that was broadcast here in the UK
It was on the worst of the terrestrial channels channel five and it won in the morning
So did anybody realize the Gatorade bottle played a significant role in the series? No, what like
Wind over where oh gosh, what what was his name the dead guy
I would Kai okay, so Kai and the proto-blood came out of basically a Gatorade bottle with the tubes in it
Oh, I think I'll go back and look now
Yeah, you got a look because we're wherever the coffins are where Kai is you know the two coffins out of there
Yeah, there's this Gatorade bottle
Wasn't most of the prop budget for that show
Some expansion foam spray paint and what we can find in this in the rubbish pretty much it was
Well
Being a cable to pry most of my life. I'm I'm sorry. I have to go back to the classics. My favorite is toss
Oh, yeah, of course what one. I've been trying to watch a space
99 oh you can't watch classic now
I
And I watched every episode breathlessly as a kid and I watched an episode
You know like at the last three months. It's unwatchable. Oh, there's a good topic if there's a law
What what shows did you love as a kid that have not held up? You know like goth
For instance, right? Well, there's one on that still good
That one on that score that I have actually
Re-cantied on my original opinion. I used to love the 18. Oh, yeah
And a what when that was on UK gold here
I watched that a few episodes and it was like oh don't just don't spoil the memories
And then I've rewatched I've binge watched that again all and you know one and an order basically
And I'm thinking actually the 18 if as long as you take it in the spirit, but it's intended
It's meant to be fun. It's meant to be you know, it just a bit relaxing a bit tongue and cheek and whatever
And hold you take it in that spirit and you watch it and it's actually not too bad
Okay, I'm totally jealous. I want the stainless steel mini 14 that a Hannibal had the beautiful gun
18 before I go this a web is did you catch the like I want to say it was like the third season maybe where they have
Finally cleared their name. Well, they had I watched all five. There's five seasons and I watched them all
Every episode in order. I mean, okay, I spit it out over quite a while
Wasn't it wasn't exactly a bunch session
But yeah, but what they did was apparently the
The fans at the time got a bit annoyed with the fact that it was getting repetitive and they never got caught
And by the end of season four the plan was it's right they get caught and then the start of season five was they get caught
Marshalled in the clear their names and they're working for stock wheel
So seasons season five was poor it was pretty poor and it got cancelled at that point
But yeah, it was getting tie up by then anyway thick they could have made it an episode
Just them all repeatedly kicking stock well in the nuts
Yeah, it's you know, I kind of I kind of thought it kind of jumped the shark after that point where they were
Cleared it jumped the shark at the point where they had to have been episode with boy George in it
Did they yep?
Did the egg boy George was a wash through the celebrities I had no that's just the point it jumped the shark
There had two episodes count them two not one two two dual two one two
Episodes with Hulk Hogan
As the Hulk stuff and it was I mean
Yeah, but it was the 80s man
Hey, wait talking about Hulk Hogan. There's my favorite worst show ever and it was so bad
It was like a train wreck. You had to watch it. It was called thunder and paradise with Hulk Hogan
Is some supermodel I forget who it was
But it was if you can watch it do it drunk. You're gonna laugh your balls off
That's urban command suburban commando and mr. Nanny we know
Hey, I guess
Sorry, Thundan Parvaz was at least sort of a Hulk Hogan vehicle and when I was watching a binge watching the 18 and
I never expected Hulk Hogan to turn up in the 18 and then not only once but twice both times as Hulk Hogan
At least but at least by George when he was there
Yes, if we're themself and yes, it was kind of lame
But at least if he had a different character name and he wasn't singing a culture club tune
There was some attempt of a character there. I'll be it very very thinly
Um, it's only veiled but Hulk Hogan he was there as the Hulkster
So you could be talking about yeah, Hulk's the dude, you know, it's oh god, no
Please know
The Hulk is broke divorced and has his own shitty hosting company now, so a hosting company. Oh, yeah, seriously
Google host a mania
Yep
So I'm watching the promo video. It's worse. Am I the only one here who like has his own theme music
It just plays inside of his head most of the time and if no, no, we'll get that
Peter Riffin does am I the only one whose theme song is the 18 song
And you
Yes, I used to put play flight of the Valkyries on the MP3 player when I put the throttles forward on the airplane
right as anyone seen
A TV show or UK TV show called spaced. Oh god
Oh, that was that was hilarious. Spaced. There's a character in that who is he's in the territorial army is sitting in the UK
It's made in the UK. It's the early part of Simon Pagan and Nick Frost's career is basically. Yeah, yeah
Nick Frost plays a character who is in the tea in the tea a territorial army
Um, he's obsessed with the military and at one point they go to a nightclub and his dancer team the theme from the 18 comes on
And that's him totally in his element that nightclub playing the theme to the 18 and he's playing like the the toy soldiers
Pretend to shoot a gun
Pretend to throw a grenade. That's his dad's routine. I was drunk most of the time I watched that show
You have to be spaced as a stoner as a stoner comedy. It's really good
But you've got to be a stoner. They appreciate it. You got to be on acid to understand it. I don't know I've never had acid
But um, that's a stoner show. What I'm hearing is it's it was trying to be but is not as good as red dwarf
Oh, no, no, no, no, it's it was very rich totally different to that very different very different
Yeah, it's very very unusual very different very original um, but you have to be
Open enough minded to just go with it and if you go with it, it's hysterical
It's so good
Um, but if you're not if you're expecting something mainstream
Yeah, it ain't going to cut it ain't going to say that's why yeah. Oh no, I'm very close minded. I'll leave off this one
Well, I bet I got a bed guys. It's been good talking to you all bit briefly
And uh, yeah happy new year and all that and I hope you uh
Continue to plow on until the very end
Do you plug your show? I think I plugged it briefly plug it again
Okay, Linux Luddites.com and also mintcast.org mintcast.org
If you're American, they're the two shows that I mostly do
I just started to do your show maybe two three days ago and good job now. All right. Thanks
I love the show. I didn't really uh when when I saw in channel and realized you were that Joe so yeah
Thanks so much for uh
For Luddites. Yeah, that's right. It's quite a lot of effort, but people seem to like it. So it's worth it. I think
Yeah, good stuff, man. Thanks a nice to meet you man. Do you have a feed where you can like snatch all of your shows before you run off the bed?
Um, there is on the site because um we don't like to put them all in the RSS feed because it just clogs up players and stuff
But if I look at the site, there's an archive link on the do on the right hand side. I think show archive
Which is Linux Luddites.com slash archive and they're all linked from there back to number one
Thank you, sir. What's all right. I know yeah have a good time guys and uh
If you're still going when I wake up, I might jump back on you never know
We almost certainly will be though. We may not be the same we at that time. Yeah, exactly
Yeah, okay, well take it easy guys
See no time. Have a good one man
Later Joe. Yeah, what was the projected running time for this year's show because I swear it gets longer every year
Oh, I think we're just shooting for 26
Probably like one year is like 28
No, no a couple of years ago it was 24 and then we realized that we missed some time zones because
There's a role around so it went to 26 last year and it's 26 again this year
Uh, okay, I thought it might be fed you to next year, but no, there's just more time zones than you would logically think would fit on a globe with 24 of them
I thought we'd just kept making some up
By the names of them. Yeah, definitely people made up those names
Yeah, happy new year
Happy new year to whoever happy new year
Yeah, happy new year to Brazil. You're a way which sent at one other that includes Rio de Janeiro, San Paulo
Brasilia and
Monty video
But you'd that one on purpose happy new year. Okay, so here's one what's everyone's favorite
Tech purchase that they've made this year
What this year or last year like 2014 you mean yeah
So in that case uh, I
I did by the um
Yeah, I did do the end-of-go campaign and I've got I'm gonna get a jeweler tablet and made that'll be interesting
And then I also decided to get the phone as well when it when it was there on the discount as well
so
Wish I could've had that phone already, but I didn't put my code in until uh
Well a bit late, so I'm gonna be getting it uh
Well soon hopefully
It's just waiting in France or Germany the moment, but obviously new year it's gonna hold after the well copy a bit and it brings
Live on a weekday, so
Hopefully before the 12th of January because that's the estimated delivery at the moment and that's a bit annoying
I
Got a good one. I got a gorilla thumb drive. That's my favorite. You can just step right on it. It's fine
I have to have a whole new computer and
basically my old computer blew up the power supply actually burned up and so I ended up having to buy a whole new machine
Which build man? I did not build it um, I actually
Hmm
Yeah, and that's system 76
What's the other major winnest?
Zaw reason?
Zaw reason. Yeah, I ordered a machine through Zaw reason
Primarily because I was really stuck in a bad situation
My old machine blew up the same week. I was on call for work
So I actually had to get a new machine in like within days and I needed it set up
Everything done ready to roll
Oh, you know what that reminds me
I bought a
HP laptop from my wife at Walmart and it was 200 bucks and it's a full powered laptop
I cannot believe how fast this thing is for the price that we paid. I didn't know they sold linux laptops today at Walmart
sadly no she doesn't run linux, but uh, it is all it's it's all uh intel hardware inside
So I'm thinking of buying one for myself and what's up Dan? Long time no see
Hey Dan
Hey Dan. Hey class. How you doing? I'm doing great. Um actually Dan um about five or six years ago
The Walmart was selling a machine they called the green PC
Which actually had a version of um Ubuntu linux on it with um
e16
Wasn't that only web sales you can only get it on Walmart online. No, I went to store and bought it
I actually had one I bought it at the store
Yeah, it looked pretty nice if I mean the OS the desktop itself. I don't I never obviously used the DC
It was fairly underpowered um, trying to remember what the the processor wasn't and it wasn't it wasn't an AMD or Intel processor
So
If the the the processor I think was only
Like eight or nine hundred megahertz. It wasn't actually even a full gig or hers processor
You know my problem is with that sound soundy
It's the same thing with the triple E PCs
It's a crippled version of linux comparatively speaking. I mean yeah for for the delay person
It's a it's a crippled version of linux like the triple EPC had this bastardized version of zandros on it and
App store that was so limited
It was it was crippling and then the that it doesn't have an Intel was it it was it an x86 compatible processor
Yeah, it was a k86 compatible. Oh, they were just they were running basically a stock version of emboon 2
With just the e16 desktop and a different theme on it
So it's still it's still took the the standard x86 or was the 60 foot. No, it wasn't 64 bit wasn't
Yeah, it was
It was 64 bit get this the motherboard even had a read controller on it
Why?
Well, you could hook up multiple drives and raise it straight the drives
In drive that that's a pretty that one
See, I didn't have one of those are actually play around with one of those by staying corrected on that
That seems like a fairly decent offering from a standard box store. Are you talking about a netbook?
No, it was it was regular PCs
I have a chance to remember it
I remember it the big thing about it was the they were selling it as the green PC
And the reason they chose the processor that they did was it had a very low power requirement
So you could actually go stand by with it and it was
Maybe not as good as a pie
But it was actually very low power draw for the machine. That sounds more like
than until to me
So what's what was the what was a fate of that the reason why it didn't succeed was it was there a lot of
So people well was there a lot of complaint that people bought it and didn't realize what they were getting and
And could not run their their quote software on it. Was that what killed it?
I would if anything
I would blame the ever popular Walmart model of
Handling stuff in other words put pressure on a company to produce high volume of something and cut the prices to absolute bare bones
And the company can't make a dollar on it
Well, that that was always a problem with netbooks is that people assumed
They were marketed as this
cheap laptop which well, yeah, it is but it's very limited and then when you add that the further thing in of
Oh, it's Linux it's Xanderos or whatever it is that on it and people have buying it on the assumption of oh, it's a cheap Linux
cheap windows laptop and it isn't you can't run games on it eight
Don't have the power and be it's not comparable and it's just people being
Un, you know, it's sold something they think is one thing and it turns it to be something else
There was there was a double whammy with the netbooks because
When the first triple EPCs
appeared and then some of the other manufacturers were winding up production of their own netbooks
Microsoft turned the thumb screws on all of the other manufacturers and said
Yeah, you can do what you want as far as the operating systems concerned, but
Nothing except windows can have more than this spec
So actually most of the decent netbooks came with windows on them and people switched them over to Linux
Anyone here run a Chromebook with Linux. I haven't been tempted to buy one to do just that
Tanda who do we have we had we interviewed somebody that did that
I've been looking into doing it. Yeah, he was on earlier. It's um
What's his name?
Pirate man
Um pirate
Yeah, he was doing it and the we had the guy who
Was running here
Wasn't the guy who was running um
He had a website with the distro. Yes, let's let's have some tailored. What was that website?
He was just he was also right after us. He was on Linux for the rest of us
Mm-hmm. Uh, what was it? What was that? What was he called?
He's just now let me look that up. The bedrock Linux guy. No
No, not that rough. Don't talk with your mouth. Don't talk with you.
Jump during back to the
Remember it was a via chipset that was in there. I just saw a link somewhere where you can run Cruton
Inside the actual Chrome OS now. Oh, yeah, that's what that's what I was thinking of
I just listened to and it's an older one a
Bad voltage where they're talking about crew. They did a review of a
Chromebook, but they they talked about Cruton and it's like yeah, if you need if you need a real Linux app
You can just run it and
It's not like you got to reboot or anything. So
Uh, it seems to be like Cruton may
and I think we're talking about it on a
KPL or I didn't realize it, but
Cruton seems to be like the thing would make would would make a Chromebook actually viable
Well isn't Cruton
Something that actually allows you to install Linux? I feel Linux installed like a good to weather or an
Chromebook. So you're not actually running a Chrome OS
That's good. Yeah, you do need to do your research though because there are certain manufacturers and models of Chromebooks
That it's far easier to do that with than others the seller on
Based models from eight or ten to be the easiest if I may
I mean
Oh my gosh
5150 wow
Just it was you from distro share.com who was
Talking about that rich and it was episode 166 of Linux for the rest of us and then
Don't forget what show we did with him
Sorry, continue on 5150
Well, I'm probably still too hot for you. It's it's not just that 50
It's every time you key up if someone else is keyed up you echo back
Real bad like you got your headphones wrapped around the microphone. It's it's bad
Well, I'm I'm on plumble. So I'm not using a headset
They tell me I was real low and I didn't know it all all this morning
For the you guys tell me it was low, but you didn't tell me I was
Still real low when I was actually on the laptop on my boy. I'm you know more more annoying to try that again
Well, you know, you're not you're fine now. It's the only the only sort of
Uncomfortable fight this way and other people are talking at the same time. Well, that would make sense since I'm not on headphones
I'm on the phone, you know, if anybody if anybody keys up at the same time. I do there's going to be feedback
Yeah, but we have that kind of collision all the time. It's not like someone's doing an on purpose
It deep do you have can you plug headphones into your phone with is that possible?
I don't think so. I've got an analog headset, but I don't think it's it's not four rings
I don't think that would work, but
Let me drop out of here and jump into
bum bumble on the laptop again
Because I've got the amplitude pushed all the way now. We'll try
So tell me if I'm too low because Ken came on and said, man, you know, we
You know all that stuff this morning and he already posted it, you know, you are just so way low that you can't be heard
And I did I did my own version the first three hours and I said well. I hit it with compressor. I hit it with the leveler
And I think it's it's not that bad. I'm still low
But you know
But I'm in there and he's now it's already posted so
Let's let's go with that and shoot. I'm I'm willing to do that. I mean, I'm sorry kid. I hate to throw all this on you
But it's been
Unfortunately, it's been more of a CF than I anticipated
From the beginning. So tell you what let me let me jump out on the phone
No hold on
You the phone sounds great. Just plug some headphones in it most phones will allow you to plug headphones in
And it'll just use the built-in mic in the phone which is working great for you. It's just the feedback issue
I talked on the phone for years like that
I didn't get headphones that had an integrated microphone in them until the past year maybe two
See, that's the problem my
Integrated phones or my analog phones have two plugs
Yes, so just use the one plug for the headphones and your phone will be smart enough to use its own microphone
On which you sound good
I just had a bizarre thought when you said about plugging headphones in the phone
I could imagine imagine going back to the 70s and saying that to someone and they've got this this handset
And like I'm already holding the phone up to my ear. Why would I want headphones to plug into this thing?
I remember when mobile phones didn't have
wireless headsets and you had to use a wired headset with them like before Bluetooth came around
They worked good though. I had a couple but we're like at that sounded fantastic
Yeah, they they've always sounded better the wired headsets have always sounded better than Bluetooth headsets
I still got a wired headset for old Nokia
6,000-ish it's strange I hardly ever see anyone with a headset at all anymore
Yeah, you've got to remember though the Bluetooth headsets have any say approved
There they are my daughter and I the other day we watched
lethal weapon if you remember that old movie
Several cell phone appearances in that movie and it's just a giant giant battery within antenna on it and a separate
Antset with a girly gourd and it's hilarious
Actually, it can be quite fun. It's very easy to spoof the pairing on Bluetooth headsets and
um if you've got the right Bluetooth adapter you can play random sounds through
Basically any Bluetooth headset and range and a lot of fast food restaurants tend to use those for their staff
It's quite fun to see what what their faces do when you do that nearby
Oh, I got one for you and my little Bluetooth adapter has a range of a hundred meters nice
So you could basically sit right across the street and stop messing with driestory staff
Uh
Back when I first got it. I used to uh attempt to intercept
uh, I
Attempt to intercept uh
Phone calls of cars passing by
Yes, everything we're talking about is entirely theoretical but possible
It was an attempt. I'm not saying whether or not I was successful
Yeah, I mean I was saying earlier on as well talking about the the phone and lethal weapon
technology ages
Movies that I can remember watching in mission impossible the first mission impossible and the hacker on board
I'm like what equipment do you need? What are this high-tech equipment? Do you need and this guy's waxing vertical?
I think it's about a Pentium 2 is waxing vertical about this really high-tech Pentium 2
That's so super sophisticated
And it's like what? Yeah, he was like oh 900 megahertz with a risk processor
Yeah, totally
Totally it's all these things are way super seeded by now
But that's having waxing vertical about the the pinnacle of technology
That's what he needs to complete this this task. Do you remember how cool the the slide out phone was on the matrix?
I mean that changed phones for like three or four years. Oh, yeah
Everybody I remember it was hilarious back when back when
Mobile phones first got fairly affordable in the UK so
Everybody could have them on like pay-as-you-go schemes and everyone changed the face years on their Nokia's
So that they had face years that had a little slide out on them just so they looked like that model
Okay, that ain't working because I just realized I'm hearing everybody twice
Separated by I'm in stereo
I heard something about pokie saying how cool it was on the matrix and blah blah blah and then he was back again
Let let me drop out and
Get on the wireless headset on the PC and see if that's and if I'm low guys tell me
Well, you heard it right everything was so
You heard it right 50 everything I say is blah blah blah
Yeah
blah blah blah twice
So bro
Yeah, dude, I'm back
Without giving away where I work, but basically somebody worked wrote a snarky blog post about a typo on the site and it was like
So I had to fix it. Don't leave it. I know where you work
Just in the way the spell place just leave the typos in there. That's what I do. I like the lighting spell place
Well, the whole thing I can't I can't I work for a large dot com
Uh, I can do my blog's I can slate month. I want to
That's not an F in typo. I might that's around that around dictionary
Yeah, 15 years ago a large dot com could have been the actual name of name of the company
It's a household name if you're over a certain age or income level
Oh
Densure dot com. Yes, you work for hostomania
ah
Go ahead, do you say that?
Uh, I'm not going to name my employer. I have a
Social media agreement and it is just better if I don't basically
If I don't if I never say who I work for I can pretty much say what I want
once it's getting started connecting to my name it becomes this big thing
So I would say it you're not keeping my name keep my employer off of this
That's okay. I don't know where he's I'm not saying anything
Don't talk to what's up. He would talk the quid's up if he becomes in here
Because he works for um, hey, she looks around for things like that
So so to turn the subject then what kind of shows that were canceled too soon should have been longer
The people remember I've got a few and I enjoyed metador until it got to the eighth episode this year
Puss me off. I got that was what was C5 anyone in that one?
What that was quite a few years ago
2007 I mean lasted one series
But it was about basically like a sci-fi thing
The world exploded and it went five years back in time and they were gonna save the world
Yeah
And they never finished a freaking thing. I was stupid. Why did you say fly? You saw it. Did you see that show? Oh?
Yeah, I remember watching I thought I watched the whole everything we were episode and we you could tell when
Besides waning no like I'm gonna TV shows waning. They just lose trailer halfway through
It's almost like they come up with a straight idea for the producer for the networks and then they actually put it into
Action it just doesn't work, and I like it. Well, we've done three episodes. What do we do now?
Well, for him
I started this with first tell me if I'm too low
Yes, you're way too low. Yeah way too low. I've got friends in low places and you're one of them. Dang
That was a wonderful thing is just obsessed with dwarves
The way surprises with TV shows the last shit I quite like this year actually has half a split connective cancel, but it's being renewed
And that was one surprise and I've gone to long mark this year
I haven't that yeah, and then I found out that I got canceled
And then when you had any another network that was quite heavy. Yeah, firefly was an odd one
I thought seven deputies in the movie was brilliant
You mean serenity serenity sorry. Yes, I don't know
Serendipity would be the sequel oh god, no, but serendipity was a good chick flag
Yeah, I'm drunk at this point so be able to laugh me when I get my phone on the street
That's how I know I've been gone for a long time last time we talked you were sober and drinking coffee
Yeah, this is that this is verifiably true
But not so don't it was actually really good. I thought they had a good idea there
The the series
Not so much. I don't think whatever happened. I don't remember watching TV so far fly because I will tell my step
I figured out there was deer at a big can so I just never bothered
But it was basically like there's these people on the spaceship and they're flying around trying to
Just do stuff like black semen on it. I mean the thing was it was it was it was
There were rich characters in a rich world and because it only ran for one season all they managed to do in that one season was
Delvin to the backstories of all the characters
It wasn't even one season it was a half a season it was only 15
Yeah, I know a shard really like to have the head and redo and do completely for scratch with modern technology
It would be I love the script of that all these frickin prisoners on the ship
It was I didn't know they they told to go and put this other ship because I discovered this a huge ship
It's a awesome script
Like seven and it may be better among the dang analog
It's it now. Yeah, what do you guys I suppose you guys know like you guys know like seven?
That would be it. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah
Blake seven was a classic
Jackson should go and get by the rights of frickin dude like seven. I tell why he'd be no
Because Blake Blake seven was 70 sci-fi trash in a product that's time
It's only as entertaining because it was it was 70s and utterly ridiculous even then
Now at least points in that show where you could go. Ooh the kinky factor is high simply because of the outfit being worn by the character with the most line
I have to say man. I always like book seven. I yeah
You know that and doctor who were a couple things that we've got actually on the
local
public television channel
But it's been so long I've forgotten all the episodes that I'm not happy
with not caught two for introducing me to those on
uh to most seven on youtube. I'm sure I'm sure
It's uh nowhere near legit
But uh, you know, I've been working I've been working my way through
Yeah, I'd say for Blake seven. I think the the first season where Terry Nation was the only guy writing all every story
I think it was really really strong, but I've gotten past that now and it seems
Seems to be falling off quite a bit in terms of story quality
Actually
That was the key turning point with that show when Blake disappears
And uh, what's his name takes over that turns the whole series completely
Don't have to ship. What what's the point now on a little grumpy ship that doesn't do anything
It's like that was the whole point that people watched the whole freaking shot. Oh
In the universe. Oh wait you guys don't know okay apparently don't you guys know the big twist about this
The guy who played Avon
Actually kept all these scripts from that point forward where where Blake leaves
After the show is over he goes back and he writes a novel or a book based around the fact that
Avon was actually searching for Blake the whole time and that's and everyone thinks that he had
Always ulterior motives in that his motive was actually to find Blake because he felt
Completely out of place trying to lead the crew
I didn't I didn't realize that in those the episodes are yes
Kind of my it reminds me it maybe yeah
Black topic it was like
When Herculee's amazing ventures or whatever it was finished up the guy played
Aries
Through himself off a mountain because he couldn't get a job
Really sci-fi.co.nc. We're gonna remake it
Oh yeah on the Blake 7 thing it was was it talon taron talon something like that
I begin with a tea that took over from and the fourth season of Blake 7 or something like that as the weather from Blake
That was Avon
It was Avon who took over
Are you sure and a new avon was always the guy that even he though ticket
He's like the
Yeah, he said he'd go. Yeah, I thought so but it was was it talon the taron or something like that was the weed
He came out as a lead character to almost to replace Blake for the last season
Well, I remember something from the last episode of Blake came back and and something uh, you know
Exchanged between him and Avon and it's like don't you trust me it's guy. I've always trusted you
Yeah, and the way that last scene is filmed is Avon is standing
Overall the other people who are dead all the rest of the crew and he's basically surrounded and the the reasoning for that was
If there was anybody who cannot survive it's gonna be Avon
Yeah, it's uh the original series. I've got a big blank in there. So like I said, I'm I'm not happy with you
For reintroducing me to that and uh
Well, I'm literally do that episode, but you know, there's gotta be no way that's legit on YouTube. It's just they haven't found
I think with shows like that you've got to sort of take it as the the context of
What what life was like at the time what you expected at the time and then you when you were watching Blake 7
That was late 70s. So you're used to late 70s TV and their tech there
Special effects and their levels of storytelling and what they could do Blake 7 was pretty damn good
Um, but when you watch it back now yet really really shanky um
You've got to connect take it in the context of what it was like at the time. Oh yeah, they intro you go straight into
apic graphics and you know and and then a pseudo video killer
sweeping around I mean it's laughable in
You know compared to what we have currently in tech and
So I don't go for hours again. I'll messed up
You guys can hear me. Okay. Yeah, I can hear you. You're a little distorted though
Um, here's an odd fact for Blake 7 and Dr. Who
The guy who did the voice of the computer and Blake 7 was also the voice of K9
No, be old-ock and uh and Blake 7. Yep. Hey guys. Good even. I just wanted to hop on and wish you all a happy new year
Uh, this is shadow or Josh uh
The CT of an ass. I just wanted to
Pop on and say hi to all you oh
Oh, thanks for coming. Happy new year. I mean
Thank you
See everything's going good, but I was gonna pop in and see how y'all we're doing by didn't want to interrupt right in the middle of
TV discussion
Thanks for everything Josh. I just wanted to pop in and wish y'all a happy new year and
Hope everything goes great for 2015
Well, welcome. We're discussing Blake 7 and we'll leave it to the characters
Yeah, that's a remake. It's a few years before my time, unfortunately
Apparently and I'm doing some research apparently. Yeah, Microsoft bought the rights
They were there was there was gonna be 10 until video game
Then TV series, but never actually happened. It wasn't 2014. So apparently um it could still be a development. I'm not sure sure
Gotcha, you know one of these odds um
Movie or no book toned game rights things that I
Everything about me screams. I should be interested in this and it does exist and for some reason
I just have no interest in Jeknow as uh Terry Pratchett's Starship Titanic
Terry Pratchett's an awesome author
Everything I've read of his
Has been gold. So I would imagine it'd be good
Yeah, I loved I love Terry Pratchett is disc world stuff is just phenomenally good
He doesn't only do disc world, but I mean I've read every disc world duke and I know of
It isn't one he did one with Terry. Oh, that's not Terry Gilliam
Ericka, you know, I think it's one of the piscons that he did
Starship Titanic. It was a maiden voyage or a starship
And one of the characters was called the John most that was his name
He's fostering the second name John most of these that was his name
And it was bizarre totally bizarre and then it's on the video game you
Written your silly names
Well, I run a fake
I there was a Starship Titanic game there was out commercial like the most one you're thinking of
Fist lab that
You know you sort of start out isolated
All all the starship that is broken down
Actually
Starship Titanic was originally a game
written and
Created by Douglas Adams and the book was and the book was co-written based on it by Douglas Adams and Terry Jones
My my bad yeah was was Douglas Adams
They are very similar Douglas Adams and Terry Pratch are very very similar. I got them very similar
They are very very similar. Yeah. Oh, you totally right. It was
I'm kind of thinking
Maybe I'm not that Starship Titanic had a
tie-in on steam to the ship
Which I which I think it is a
Oh, what's what's the one with the
Guy with the crowbar, but I mean it's sort of a mod of that
and
Your your own thing is
You know your ship is a hijacked and you have to take orders and
Assassinate people and the end you make it to a life raft and and that they at the end it comes on and
Oh, you're you're on another ship and a guy's videos telling you to assess everybody
Are you talking about half-life?
Yeah
It's like a mod of half-life called the ship and
It's on steam
But like like I said it it is a thing where you're supposed to sneak around
And assassinate people, but you seem to spend all your time in the bathroom instead and
uh
If you if you win the game your prize is you're a life raft and you're picked up by another ship and the same crazy guy
Want you to assassinate everybody on the other ship?
Well, that's not Starship Titanic. I've only read the book Starship Titanic. I've never played the game
I don't know what I do know what is a game
And did what the plot of that basically as a Starship and all the compute all the systems and navigate it are all automated
They're all robots and they'll get some mistake and they'll jump off in the life of their own
And it's a very it's like two or three the handful of people basically that are traveling on this maiden voyage
And everything else is robots and at one point they've got like a bomb is time to go off
It's like a talking bomb. It's counting down. It's like 42
41 and you can talk to it and you can distract it
And it's like I forgot my count. Oh well, I'll start again
1,989
998
997 or what would you say a bit of such and such? Oh, we'll look at the same section such a damn you've made me forgot my count again
I'll start from a thousand
It was it was it was originally a point and click adventure
I can't remember
It was originally written for one of the Apple computers as well. It's one of those games
It's actually well with setting up and emulated to play because it's just such a classic
Seems out you're kind of reminiscing of system shock. Well, I mean, I do like Douglas Adams
The problem that I've got with Douglas Adams is in a way to Douglas Adams, you know, he's now dead
Is that he you somehow feel that he puts himself in these characters
And you don't really feel the distance from him. It's like all very variations of Douglas Adams
And that's the only problem I've got with Douglas Adams. I mean, he is brilliant, but that's the problem I have with him
I remember reading about Starship Titanic that they put so much the game anyway that they put so much
Dialogue into it and they put so much word recognition to I just I don't think it was anything particularly clever
Just massive massive libraries of both
That the people said it was uncannily
Turing like to speak to the thing. It was very it was very cleverly programmed for the time. It was um
I mean, I think all of the responses were nothing more than a great big decision tree, but it was
It did have a massive
vocabulary library for any game at the time particularly
Considering the era of computers that was on
Yeah, think of the size of the storage it was on and and all the responses and and recognition that they were will fit on there
It was bloody funny though
The Douglas Adams just like Terry Platte has a wonderful kind of phrase remember one of the the best Douglas Adams
phrases I have ever read that I was in a hysterics, but I first read this um
It was I think it was dark gently one of the dark gently novels the quote was something along the lines of a died of an overdose of push and brick wall
It's a very interesting way to say that you ran your car into a wall. Yeah, exactly
That's what you'd be that you just sort of double take a dick. Oh, that's good. That's really good
Okay, that was a conversation killer. Well Douglas Adams coupled Douglas Adams had a couple of um
Games that he wrote oh
Glad to
Dude you can't talk about parogies and just leave the room. They're actually not that easy to make it turns out
Well, I could have told you that my family my wife's family spends a lot of time making their ravioli and it's pretty similar
But yeah, yeah, it's the the doe is I've never hand rolled pasta doe before I now see why there are pasta presses in the world
Try uh try making no key sometime
I just
No key it's oh, oh the potato dumplings
Yeah, well, they're not really dumplings. They're more like a little pasta ball and you kind of roll them with a flick
Motion to your finger and they they curl up on you
I feel like you need too much practice for that. I don't think I could get there
You get there by the end of the first batch. They're not that yeah, yeah, are you gonna be able to come back?
Yeah, probably you get an estimated time because I might try and sneak a napkin before you come back
You that's not that's cheating though if you're gonna do the full 28 hours or whatever it is
And you have to stay awake and beyond for the entire 28 hours. Otherwise, you don't get credit for it
They're already failed. I slept twice
Just because you were on the first 12 hours caught to but
Before you leave I've got a real museum and
Question for you because on my bucket list
Is before I go to visit New Zealand and the main reason for that is just seeing that, you know, just the incredible
un
affected areas
Well, first through
you know
Hercules the legendary journeys and
Zena
Warrior Princess and now through the
The Jackson's production. So is that like
All of New Zealand. I mean, I'm sure it's got to be
Everything I saw in her case and it's got to be the same waterfall
From 10 different angles, but is there like
Just the acres of untouched land
In New Zealand that all the production companies use or it is really the whole island like that
I'm glad you asked me today and not like three days ago because up until three days ago
I hadn't actually left Wellington City
Simply because work has been so so demanding
But on since we're on Christmas holidays
I went up me and my girlfriend went up to or my partner. I think is the official immigration term
Me and my partner went up and
To this place called Ytomo and and the whole it was a six-hour drive
So we basically drove the length of the at least the northern island
So like the whole country
It's it's weird that the whole country is the size of you know like Pennsylvania, but
But um actually I think it's a couple of states
But the north island probably Pennsylvania. So it's a six-hour drive
Gorgeous countryside
Gorgeous area with with like these caverns and caves and this waterfall
It's it is exactly as you see in the movies and the TV shows and I would say I would hazard to say
And I'm not a hundred percent sure because like this
I've only been up like one highway so far for six hours
But I would hazard to say the whole country is mostly as beautiful as you see on TV and in movies
It's it's just like there are sometimes cities interrupting them
But there's a lot of just untouched nature. It's it's phenomenal
Is this the same girlfriend that I met that at northeast Lennox Fest with you?
Yeah, cyanide cupcake
She is every bit as beautiful as that countryside
I must commend you on her
Her personality as well as the way she looks and my son was absolutely smitten with her as well
Well, yeah, I mean plus. I mean she's got that geek girl thing going on
I mean when your girlfriend teaches robotics for fun. It's kind of yeah, it's it's definitely a plus
Yeah, you can't go wrong there and
Gifts and on could could take my hello because I've met her before oh wait. We're at what 50?
Oh wait at um in Pittsburgh, right? I mean uh Philly. Yeah, Philly
I keep forgetting yeah, I keep forgetting about that trip for somehow. I don't know why
Yeah, I'm the guy you can't believe is pro monsanto. Yes. Yes. You're you are still known as the guy we can't believe is pro monsanto
I can't believe you're pro monsanto. I can't believe anyone. Whiskey tanga folks drop. Oh there very much. I mean monsanto
Oh
Gives me the ability to grow crop that I never I never was able to before so
You don't have to pro anything else and uh, you know, I was just talking my seed
Representative yesterday and he's maybe a little more than I'm monsanto. I am but
You know I told caught two two years ago
You know if I could get monsanto to
Provide me with round-up ready meadows and cucumbers and corn, you know sweet corn. Oh, that I would be right there in the forefuck
You said always what I have is when dad and I plan to garden
We'd be hoeing and all that and have it ready
Yeah, I'm sorry and and have it all already to go
And then we'd harsh would come there would be would be gone for two weeks
And everything would be overgrown with weeds and ruined
So uh, you know, yeah, if if monsanto would give me vegetables, I would gladly plant them
First of all
Vendor lock-in anyone, but second of all I can't even believe that monsanto is pro monsanto. I just
I don't see it on monsanto
There needs to be a movie if we have monsanto gathered the marijuana business. Oh, who's out now?
Well, since the day of the road
This was just yesterday, you know, since I'm the farmer now that my dad
I had to go on monsanto's website and say
Yes, if I buy it by soybeans, I won't
Carry them over for seed myself, which you know
What the hell would any sane person agree to that because you can't grow them anyway
They got a terminator gene spliced into them. No, no, it it is like a it's it
I'm sorry. It's like a proprietary software license if you want a software you better agree
You're not you're not going to give copies to
All your friends. I mean it's it's it's exactly the point in saying he exactly very good
I don't use that software for that reason. Yeah, I don't but I mean this isn't even
I mean, yeah, we can see obvious parallels with with software licensing, but these are seeds man
Well, you know, no, no, I can it's not just if they're seeds. It's food. You're gonna put this in your body
And incorporate it into your body. It's going to become part of you
And this thing's been gene spliced. You have no idea what could possibly happen
I mean have we not read enough a horrific doomsday sci-fi about this yet?
Need the warnings
That's because it is just sci-fi poke because
We you know, we've had phones were just sci-fi at one point. We no, no, we have had so many
We have had deadly crops come out of
Just hybridization in this in the past in the 20th century
You know, they they they've had crops that were just hybrids from naturally
Uh crop
I'm sorry
there've been crops
just from
naturally crop
combining species of the same plant
Or variations of the same plant that have come out to be actually deadly the humans
So it's like saying. Oh this gene splicing and it's artificial stuff
Uh, you know, we've we've got to be afraid of it
No natural methods they've been in place
That's not that for me as to fight that
There is no such generic thing as GM foods are natural seeds or whatever, each crop is
different.
And the problem that I personally have with it is that there are no mosanto or desperate
to make money on this, so they are happy to provide their own studies, to speed this
on in the market, there is no control over it.
Right, I understand that the reasoning behind GM foods, I get that, I totally get that.
And I think some GM foods, as long as it's actually tested properly and fully tested
so that it's safe, I get that, I don't trust mosanto to do that, I trust mosanto to go
out of my money, which means they want it on the market ASAP, tested or not, they want
to claim it's tested and they want to get it passed, that's where I have the problem.
And personally, I think GM stuff should be labeled as GM and people like me can look
at that label and say, GM, sod that, I'm no buying that, I'll buy something that's
not GM.
See, I should have to be on the label, absolutely.
Well, actually, legally we have to hear anyway.
But yeah, that's the thing though, mosanto have been lobbying, the various governments.
Oh yeah, yeah.
So that they don't have to label it as GM.
Yeah, I mean, that's not, that's not the problem though.
Yeah, but that means that is not the problem.
GM, GM foods in and of themselves are not an issue as long as they are thoroughly, each
strain is thoroughly tested and they are only being modified for positive benefit.
The problem with mosanto is their business practices and especially in relation to farming
methods are utterly amoral and disgusting.
They, how can you possibly tell a farmer not to keep any seed and not to replant it?
How can you, how can you possibly tell them not to do that?
It's, it's insane.
It's utterly insane.
No, as a farmer, I want to speak to that because when you're planning a wheat variety that
was created or enhanced with taxpayer money through university, I'm completely with you.
You know, taxpayer money created this and you're trying to tell us that a company is going
to patent it.
No.
But, but this is the thing 50, it is a, it is a living biological process.
It should not be patentable, regardless of how it was constructed.
It should not be patentable at any living biological process should not be patentable.
Well, there's that and the fact that it being up front as well was one of the things that
pissed me off about my santo was when they were delivering aid to countries that had no
harvest that were really badly needed food and grain and whatever.
They would deliver that aid through, with the American flag on it, the stars and stripes
on it, it would be more santo stuff and it would be delivered to countries in Africa to
plant them and it would be GM, but it wouldn't be marked as GM and of course the EU doesn't
allow GM foods.
So that when those farmers planted those seeds, they couldn't sell to the EU, they couldn't
sell to anywhere other than America and America said, well, stuff you guys, you can, there's
no competition, we can afford to pay you peanuts because there's no competition.
So we'll give you peanuts for your crop and if you don't want that, well where are you
going to take it?
The EU won't take it because they won't accept GM, it's the fact that their santo are
not being up front about it.
They don't want anyone to notice GM and they don't, you know, it's all back and stuff.
That's what pisses me off about mousanto.
In the fact that after a piece of land has farmed GM crops for, I think it's somewhat
two or three seasons or something like that, before it can be accepted that they're growing
natural crops again and then they can be accepted back into the EU or other markets
that don't accept non-GM, that's what annoys me is the underhanding nature of mousanto
and stuff, not the fact that they're of GM.
Well, no, I agree with you there, if this web, you know, some of their practices in
like India and places with farmers is, you know, say, oh, we'll, we'll, we'll triple your
production and then they find out there's no place they can sell the crops.
You know, I'm not good with that.
It kind of reminds me, oh, we had these fields live in college and they'd beg on, I think
it was nesty and not, I'm not sure if it was intentional with nesty or not, but they,
you know, there was this thing about going into, you know, the, uh, third world markets
and saying, uh, you know, buy, buy our formula mix because it's better than breast milk.
And then, and then the women couldn't afford the formula mix so they would, you know, they
would cut it a lot more of water as I was this, this, this magic thing and they'd, you
know, they would put more water in it than nesty would say and feed it to their babies and
the babies with stars.
So it's not, uh, mousanto's thing in countries other than the United States, I would say,
is not unlike that kind of program, uh, but like so in the United States, I, say, I can
sell mousanto and, and, uh, like I said, they give me the availability to raise crops that
I would not be paired with otherwise, but only on that terms.
Yeah, be nice.
Well, I would say that they are because, uh, like I said, my mousanto representative
came to me just yesterday and we were in the line said, well, you know, your dad signed
the thing, not your dad, you, you got to go through this thing and it is very, very much
like a software license in my advice, it's next time in mousanto representative appears
anywhere near your house, you take out your gun.
Well, you know, your livelihood doesn't, uh, depend on mousanto, uh, yours shouldn't.
Honestly, I do, I do get the appeal, I really do get the appeal of GM foods, I mean, natural
crops, um, organic food tastes amazing, tastes absolutely amazing, however, for the farmers
producing it, it's low yield, it's, um, it's very expensive to produce, there's a lot
of wastage through, uh, due to insects and lots of other things, when you add pesticides
into it to create that, it doesn't taste as good, but the, the yield is much better, the
wastage is less, and I get, I get the fact that GM is genetically modified is signed
specifically to produce a higher yield, so I get that, um, it's just, uh, honestly, I
think it really, it needs more than a commercial, um, study from the company that benefits from
it than the company in mousanto saying, or our yields brilliant, our crops are brilliant,
you know, there's nothing wrong with them, whatever, I don't think that's necessary.
I think that needs a third party, it needs independent verification, they are actually
genuinely fine for human consumption, and that's, that's my main issue with GM, is the fact
that mousanto are providing the, the evidence that they're fine for the food chain and people
just accept it.
Well, I mean, there are things that come up even beyond mousanto, if we, if we, uh, if
we talk about wheat fides, and there is a popular, uh, caster out there who has, uh, you
know, uh, compared me, or said I am, a, as a farmer, a, uh, drug dealer, because, uh,
you know, I am, I am taking the variety here, offered me the modern, the wheat varieties,
and I first started harvesting wheat, wheat was probably almost twice as tall, and the
combines at the time were, were designed, uh, for that wheat, and it was, you know, the
old Russian varieties turkey wheat, and, uh, I'm trying to eagle, eagle, I always plan
to eagle, and then the, uh, dwarf varieties came, and, uh, dwarf varieties put more, uh,
resources into the grain, and less into the stock, and they were shorter, and, and this
person just said, and the, he following the doctor, and I'm not, you know, I'm not
trying to buy the doctor's stuff, uh, but, but say, you know, well, you went these varieties,
uh, you know, there's less nutritional output in the play, everybody has these, uh,
the allergies now, and, uh, you know, you guys are five, four, three, two, one, happy new
year, two regions of Brazil, Argentina, including Buenos Aires, Santiago, Asunción, and Palermo
Well done, sound chaser. Yeah, you almost didn't sound white and pasty at all.
Nice, like you can actually see, you're that well, huh? Time. See, this is, this is why, this is
why pegwall needs his own podcast, he doesn't say much, but when he does, it really punches.
So you want a podcast where pegwall doesn't say much?
Oh no, it's just, it's just he'll make it like a 20 minute episode once every couple of months.
It has his own podcast, it's the one we don't name.
It's the Cthulhu of on cast, if you will.
That's a, it's a Harry Potter thing, it's a, he, he shall, shall not be named,
it's the podcast that shall not be named, the Lord Voldemort of podcasts, if you will.
You've been listening to Hecopovic Radio at HecopovicRadio.org, we are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast and
click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is, Hecopovic Radio was founded by the
digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on
creative comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
