Episode: 1378
Title: HPR1378: Day one of interviews from OGGcamp 13. 
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1378/hpr1378.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 00:29:18

---

Let's do an introduction and we don't have to say anything anymore all day.
You ready?
Hello, this is NY Bill and I'm with Morshow.
Kim?
Say your neck, come on, hold my hand.
Benny, Navigame, whatever.
We should have been recording that.
So we already introduced ourselves.
We do it now.
This is the fifth part of the table.
You're recording?
Oh, no, you're responding.
I've heard about you.
You're one of these people.
You have to introduce yourself.
We already did it.
I'm Jake Morris.
And we were just talking about your badge.
I thought it should go on here.
I have a badge that I may bought from the man's life people.
In Edinburgh, I think they're based in Edinburgh actually.
I bought it from Edinburgh and Bill Chits on Thursday.
It's absolutely amazing.
Oh, we should take a picture of it.
Yeah, it's like...
I was going to say the size of an old American silver dollar,
but what size is it over here?
It's about an inch and a half round.
Yeah.
It's run at LED, Hacker Public Radio goes across the LED.
That's awesome.
That's it, and it's programmed.
We're both two, so you can put any message.
Three messages out of 56 characters, which I think is pretty cool.
Cool.
Yeah.
So there you go.
So we just finished setting up the table.
We got it pretty good.
We got the swag out.
We got the sheet design.
So you're going to have to go out and do an interview later with someone.
Alright, we'll pass this thing around.
I will see what I can do.
Alright, thanks, Bob.
Yeah.
Like that.
Here we go.
Say something.
Right.
Something.
The table is finished.
We're ready to record.
Let's go.
Oh, that's it, nine seconds.
Oh.
You ready?
Well, you know what I mean, eh?
Oh, and he said the record, too.
I thought you wanted the record.
No, the record.
I was just saying hello there.
So here we go, I say hello.
Hello, hi.
I'm Jared Ryan.
I don't really have anything more to say than that.
I intend to record something useful at some point.
How are you going to do it?
You're going to put up a show?
Yeah.
I hope so.
Is this your first dog camp?
Yeah, it's your first one.
Yeah.
It sounds like maybe an Irish accent?
Yeah.
It just came over.
It came over?
Oh, okay, cool.
Yeah, we all.
Everybody at the table here had to.
Oh, actually, he's from Scotland.
So everybody here had to come in, yeah.
Alright.
Very good.
Yeah, well, look for a show from you, man.
Good stuff.
What do you want me to say?
Oh, I'm just going to say I'm here with.
Oh, cool.
Okay.
This is Hacker Public Radio, isn't it?
Yeah.
I do a bumper.
Oh, right.
No, I just understand.
Yeah, known from such a fast guy.
Such fast guy.
No, I just, I just roped in into signing the HPR banners.
And I said, do you want to talk while we're doing it?
Yes, we are talking while we're talking.
This is live.
I am live signing the banner right now.
I'm attempting to.
It's quite a lot of pressure, actually.
There you go.
That's the US one and the UK one up there.
Oh, there's the UK one as well.
Okay.
There we go.
That's completely illegible, but you know, it is my signature.
We'll take pictures of this and I'll tell who everybody is.
Yes, definitely.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Hello.
I'm here with Oli Clark from the full circle podcast.
And we're doing it.
Oh, sorry again.
That was, that was all I was just saying.
Oh, I'm saying we're doing another live signing.
Met the Jan just came by and that's him there.
Wow, yeah.
I stuck this in the middle of it.
Just start talking while you're doing it.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
So I'm here crewing today.
I'm crewing the whole weekend.
It's good, actually.
We've got over 200 people crewing the door tonight.
It's nice.
Yeah.
So it's great atmosphere.
It's really busy.
We've got a smaller area this year, but we're using it a bit better,
more effectively.
So yeah, it's looking good.
There's a second event.
Was that back in the planning?
You knew about that second event?
Yeah.
Are they springing on you?
No, they.
We knew about it later on.
Okay.
So yeah.
Yeah.
It's going good.
All right.
Very cool.
Excellent.
Nice to talk to you.
Yeah.
Nice to talk to you.
Yeah.
Nice to talk to you as well.
Hello.
This is my bill and I'm here with Scott.
Yeah.
Scott Gold.
And he's been hanging around the HPR table for a good 10 minutes now,
asking all about it.
And I think we could look forward to a show from him in the future possibly.
Yeah.
I don't see why you're not.
I mean, you're talking about Lucy sort of a hacking community,
which is varied from very technical sort of insight through to, as you said,
what's inside your bag and what is it like?
Yeah.
It's a full spectrum, but it's always interesting to hear what people come up with.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So how are you enjoying our camp?
It's the first odd camp I've been to, actually.
I live local just about a mile away.
So it seems kind of rude not to come along to it.
And a few friends had mentioned that it was a very unique sort of gathering
and a nice sort of open community to, so yeah, to come along.
So here I am.
But yeah, enjoying it.
Very good.
Enjoying the fluid nation of it.
So now that you've talked on here, we won't rope you in for a show for this year.
You're out of the boat.
Yeah.
Anytime you want to put up in this year, it's very boring about it.
Yeah, cool.
All right.
Yeah, yeah.
I've just been involved with a community bank called Space Bank,
which is, it's been set up for about, what are you about?
It's 2006.
And a guy from Brooklyn called Franylich set it up within the context of the six decoration
of the Lacondon jungle, so part of the Zapoteaster Cultural Movement.
So it's a community investment bank with its own floating digital currency called
the digital material sunflower.
So it basically provides context for an open community to progress material things,
whether that's radio shows, magazines.
We have our own stock exchange with the Brooklyn Stock Exchange.
Interesting.
So where we have commodities ranging from agricultural products in terms of solidarity
with Zapoteaster Movement to do with cocoa and coffee corn,
alongside things like a publishing house as well that we have.
So Space is a very simple basis, like to do with, say, publishing a book,
is that the book can get produced, and then people will be given information
that they can invest and will have a number of shares that people can buy.
So in simple terms, that means you buy a few books if you want to,
or you reinvest that in terms of how well that book's going to do out in the market,
so it's trying to kind of maintain an ecology whereby
there's a generation of value and exchange of value that is recognized
through an alternate economic system.
Interesting. Very good.
Okay.
And this is one of our coins.
Oh, you have physical coins too.
Yeah, very cool.
We try to kind of manifest how you do different platforms,
and obviously in physical worlds,
and other platforms to do that.
So yeah, that's 100 digital material sunflower.
And that's probably worth the moment about just over 30 pens.
I don't know what that is in the urine.
So yeah, I mean, we've got a currency converter on the Apple currency converter.
Yeah, and it's not pegged to the dollar, so to speak.
There's a range of other metrics that we use to gain some transparency over the system,
the management system.
Yeah, to do with like Google Analytics,
they sort of things in terms of how websites and our hosts are being evaluated
by Google Analytics.
Very interesting.
Oh, it's all right.
Nice to talk to you.
Yeah, very nice.
We'll see you this week with it ready with HPR.
I'm sure you could put up an episode in more detail.
Yeah.
Okay, thanks.
There's apparently I'm the next one in line,
because he gets...
Oh, I see you.
Gadget.
Oh, we're actually recording now.
We are recording now apparently.
Look, there's numbers going.
Yeah, I finally got the route to grab the microphone, but I'm still standing here.
I'm talking.
I found another American.
Yes, we met in a bar last night.
I've talked to you online before.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm Geosparred or George Dasher.
Yeah.
And I've been working through for the last two years.
I remember you've been loved, yeah.
Yes.
And then in 2011, I was just a bystander.
But people like AJ as Muhammad have convinced me to work through.
So now I'm running all over the place.
It's cool.
It's fun to be here.
Yes, it is.
I like being here.
It's good.
Even though I'm jet lagging almost really to collapse.
In fact, Tony's been taking pictures of me all over the place.
He'll take a normal picture, and then he'll take a picture of me.
I'll begin somebody's leg or against the wall.
Like collapse somewhere.
I mean, I remember the pictures from last year.
So be foreign after one.
Now, this is before and after.
He's got a nice picture outside of the cathedral coming into the glass.
He positioned himself.
He says, you got to come outside with me.
I sit outside after crawling to a corner.
He's got to take the exact same picture again.
But with me in a corner, you have to spot the difference.
Look for the man collapsed.
Yeah.
Oh, but that's quite a few hours for you.
Yes, guys.
Yeah, so I flew into Glasgow, drove down with jazz.
You know, everybody drives on the wrong side of the road here, so I got confused.
Probably not the best thing to drive when you're jet lagging.
No, no.
There's no way I'm going to drive here.
I'm going to kill somebody if I drive here.
Yeah, yeah.
Possibly yourself.
Possibly me and many other people.
Yeah.
Don't want to do that.
Yeah.
So it sounds like between the two of us, we've covered every awk camp.
We keep a U.S. presence here.
We're trying to keep a U.S. presence here.
Yeah, so we'll continue this.
We'll continue this.
Keepin' a foothold in here.
But yeah, I'm a Linux Mint guy.
I've been doing Mint in CSA for a long time.
I'm originally from New York.
If I live in Jacksonville, Florida right now.
I work for a large bank, but I shouldn't mention their name.
Okay.
Yeah, it's all sorts of Linux guys here.
I mean, I'm launch guy.
Arch guy?
Yeah, yeah.
I like Arch.
I always have such a best each time with Arch.
I usually abandon it pretty fast.
There was probably on his second Arch update of the day, knowing him.
But when I first started using Arch, back in the day, there was no repos for it.
So I gave up on it pretty quickly when I was compiling everything by hand.
So I was like, I abandoned it, went back to Zusey pretty fast.
It was come along to, along the way, since then.
Yes.
I have yet to use it again since then.
Sorry, all large people.
Eventually I'll come back, maybe.
Oh, they all do.
Yeah, I've been actually liking Mint.
I didn't think I would like Mint.
And about two years ago, some guy, I mean, I really am a Ubuntu person,
but they were like, you really got to try Mint.
And I tried Mint because I was trying to do, I was actually trying to set up a media center.
And I didn't want to use Ubuntu.
So I just basically went towards Mint, which is kind of a booger, but not.
Yeah, yeah.
It's the same, but different.
I don't like the little bios too much.
Yeah, yeah.
It's Ubuntu, and then it's all the rest, and we do it our way.
Kind of like LXD, and I kind of like, you know, basic gnome, or cinnamon's not bad, too.
Like that.
But, you know, kind of sticking with me and RLXD, something like that.
Yep.
Let's go.
That's cool.
Guess who I found?
Hey, Mr. Dick Turpin.
It's me.
How you doing, pal?
Not too bad.
Not too bad.
Are you enjoying yourself?
Yeah, it's good.
It's always fun, you know.
It's how you intended to interview me, but now I've suddenly started to interview you.
Did you want to hold this?
What about the microphone?
Yeah, you can interview me because I run out of questions.
So, yeah.
How many people have you interviewed so far?
I think we're up to about maybe eight to twelve.
That's pretty good.
Yep, we're pretty good.
I've got to get some of these guys out behind the table.
Tim Timmy and Dave Morrison.
Navigamer hanging behind.
Okay.
So, have you managed to get to any talk shit, or do you intend to get to any?
I'm in the hallway track at the moment.
So, that happens.
Yeah.
See, I run out of questions.
And I've dried up for some strange reason.
This always happens.
You and I could talk for two hours, but if I turn on a microphone, what happens?
No, no.
No.
I think for me, I have to be prepared for it.
I think that's sort of, you know.
So, when you suddenly whip your thing out and say defense, you're going to go on this slide.
This has been coined kind of Ken Fallon style, so I'm saying.
Kamakaze microphone, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sometimes it's the way we're tracking people down.
Yeah.
No, it's always good at a camp.
I've been to everyone so far.
It's really good.
I come real.
I come more for, you know, meeting people than the talks in it.
Yeah, yeah.
It's our international love meeting.
Yeah.
Correct.
Yeah, I mean, as we've said before, when I say we have, I mean, Matt and myself.
You know, it's an opportunity to see in the flesh.
Those people that pretty much speak to on a daily basis.
Yep.
So, is that our point in that old phrase of putting a face to a nine?
Yeah.
So.
You're probably sorry we put our faces to our name.
I'm not as, I'm not as pretty as you don't know it.
Well, unfortunately, I've met you once before.
So, you know, a couple of times before.
A couple of times before.
Yeah, get rid of me.
No, no.
In fact, you seem to be here more than you do back in your own country.
You guys are fun.
So, cool though.
Maybe you want to give you a URL for your...
Yeah.
If you want to check out our show, it's the URL's dead easy.
It's tdtrs.co.
But you're okay.
Okay, cool.
Thank you very much.
Good to get you on, Mike.
Right.
Hello.
Hello, how's your camp been for you so far?
It's been a little stressful.
So, I am John the KnifeSky.
I write the talk scheduling software that they use here.
Yep.
And I had a little bit of a moment where it all broke on me first in this morning.
Oh, no.
And I came out of a talk that I just finished giving.
And was collared by just about everyone that was around.
Who was sort of saying, uh...
Why haven't any of the talks been scheduled for the next slot?
So, that was fun.
Yeah, I think the guys here were looking to see what was on and there wasn't a lot happening.
I made a bit of a mistake there.
But, you know, it's coding.
And ultimately, coding is iterative.
And, you know, you find a mistake and you fix it.
It's all better now.
It's all better now.
And then, you know, the next time round when you decide that it's all worthless
and you're going to tear it all down and start again from scratch.
You know, you know, where were the mistakes where you made last time?
So, you try and avoid them.
Okay.
Anything you're looking forward to?
So, I'm looking forward to the live show.
Obviously, last year, the live show was replaced by a quiz.
Which, you know, old fairness to Pete and Matt.
They did a good job of the test.
But, obviously, it wasn't what people were expecting.
So, it's good to see a return to form this year with the live show being put on again.
I'm really looking forward to that.
Yeah.
Looking forward to the raffle tomorrow because I'm determined to win something.
I've spent the fortune, so I better win something.
I don't care if you want that next to seven.
It's mine.
It's mine.
Mine.
Mine.
You know, or perhaps someone else's.
But preferably mine.
So, yeah.
So, I'm hoping to do at least another talk.
Yes.
But, I'm not entirely sure on what or when.
But, I'm going to do another talk, I think.
And, yeah.
Hopefully, I won't have my talk scheduling software break again.
That would be nice.
Well, as far as, obviously, it's been pretty solid.
I haven't managed to get any of the talks yet.
I did have a brief look at the schedule,
but I'm hoping to get out and have a look later on.
It's been actually really, really nice having people come up to me and say,
you know, really, really liking the look of the scheduling software.
Was that you?
Did you write that as that now?
I've just used...
The front end is...
It's...
It's a...
It's basically a jakey room mobile.
And so, people kind of are really enjoying kind of looking at that.
But, I was very fortunate in the front end.
Stuff was written by someone else for me as well.
So, on top of the fact that it's not my framework in the front end,
it's also not my coding, which is probably why that bit works.
But, you know, on the back end stuff, you know, that's all my code.
And, or, you know, 99% of my code.
And I'm really proud of that code, because it works.
It does work, it works well.
And a couple other events have used it as well, wouldn't it?
So, not many events have used it.
I'm currently trying to, for one to a better phrase,
pimp out for other shows to other events to use it.
So, if you're hosting an event,
HPR land, and you want to use a talk scheduling software,
please get in touch with me.
John at sprig.gssprig.gss or at,
John the Nice Guy, J-O-N-T-H-E-N-I-C-E-G-Y.
I hope you got that over the background noise here.
Yeah, so, feel free to...
That's an open source project as well.
Absolutely, it's hosted on GitHub.
So, Git Hub.com slash campfire manager,
slash CFM2 is the URL to get that from.
I really need to do an HPR about it at some point.
All those before, I made exactly the same statement
to Ken last year.
So...
You owe me a shoe.
Ken fell.
Yeah, yeah, he may have said something along those lines.
So, yeah, so I need to show on that.
Yeah, with any luck, you know,
I did get some interest in another show
another event that we're going to use it.
That's due to be on in a couple of weeks
and I've not really heard anything about it.
So, hopefully they've decided to use it,
and it's working so well
that they haven't needed to ask for any help with it.
We've also got a patch you need to submit to them from this morning.
Well, indeed, indeed.
And I was live coding last night as well,
just a fraction here or there.
But yeah, you know, on the whole,
it's a really good product.
And to be honest, I mean,
I'm really, really glad that I use it, I'll camp.
Because it's yet another thing that kind of sets up campfire
from other conferences, you know.
And for all the fact that, yeah,
I've had issues with hub campfire manager not hub camp.
I've not had issues with hub camp.
I just want to make that clear.
I've had issues with campfire manager.
But they've never been insurmountable.
And, you know, they're really quite,
actually quite tiny issues in the grand scheme of things.
It's just kind of, obviously,
as the creator of the application, you know,
you feel a bit under the caution when it's all gone wrong.
But yeah, so looking forward to seeing some other conferences
using campfire manager.
And I would be glad to help out anyone
because planning on running it.
So, yeah, that's good to know.
It's always easier to use if you know
there's somebody who can go and ask for help.
Absolutely. And I mean,
I think the thing that's kind of most important for me
is that when it's used,
obviously, because I wrote it for what was initially
a very, very tight spec, you know.
It was only really initially to be used here.
It's very, it's very comforting knowing
that someone else is using it.
Because it proves that it works for other people.
And what I'm hoping is that there will be some other guys here
that there will be some other people that use it.
And they'll find issues with it.
You know, as you're bound to, when you pick up a project
and you use somebody else's product,
there's bound to be issues in it.
But ultimately, by working on that project
as a community of people that use campfire manager,
we end up with a better product.
And something that hopefully will be useful for more people.
And that's really kind of key for me.
It's that more people get to use it.
More people will use it, the better everything gets.
Absolutely, absolutely.
So, yeah.
Thank you very much.
No worries at all.
I hope you're having a good time here at Altcamp.
Yeah, I'm done a lot other than the feed here.
But I'm going to go find some pizza.
I'm going to see these pizza flying around.
Yes, yes, there's pizza.
I have seen people eating it.
So therefore, it must be true.
It's not like like cake.
Thank you very much and enjoy the rest of welcome.
Thank you very much and thanks for the interview.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever considered recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and new phenomenon computer cloud.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released
under a creative commons, attribution, share a like.
Lead us our own license.
