Episode: 1680
Title: HPR1680: 2014-2015 New Year Show Part 7 of 8
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1680/hpr1680.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 07:37:02

---

This in HPR episode 1680 entitled New Year Show Part 7 on 8.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and in about 142 minutes long.
The summary is New Year Show Part 7 on 8 from 538 Nero Nero UTC.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honest Host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honest Host.com.
So when I worked at Red Hat, the number of IRC channels I was in quadrupled, sort of the opposite problem.
Indeed, I went from having a nice manageable number of IRC channels to suddenly it was
exploding on me.
I was never able to handle more than one at a time.
I don't know how you guys do it.
Right now I average about 7.
The anime club from Raleigh, a few on free notes, mostly fedora stuff, and I'll cast plant and trial out again in the Q-tile IRC channel.
Wait, I have to call Bullshit.
You said it quadrupled and it's 7.
There's 7 is not divisible by 4.
No, no, that's what I had before I went to IRC Red Hat.
And then you multiply that 7 by 4.
Oh, right, gotcha.
I was only pulling your leg anyway.
You can call me an ass, it's fine.
I can help you with your problem with not being able to handle multiple IRC channels.
We'll do this.
Nice.
I said that you're going to offer me help with math.
I could really use that instead.
I think math helps with that too, but you have to do it really, really quickly.
Bitchin.
Hey, 330.
By the way, if this LA thing doesn't work out, you want to write that on a roommate?
A LA thing.
Yeah, me moving to Los Angeles.
I didn't know about that.
I actually can't take on a roommate right now, actually.
It was just random throwing it out there.
I need to get out of North Carolina.
Hey, age pirate, you're moving out here to California?
That's the plan.
I'm going to tell them the final candidate for a job out there.
And then things kind of shut down through Christmas and all that stuff.
So I kind of sitting in limbo right now.
Are you loading up the truck and moving up Beverly?
Something like that.
I am Brian Banjo.
I don't know.
I have nothing nice to say about LA, but best of luck on the job anyway.
But you might hate LA.
Just warning you.
You will hit hit LA, by the way.
Okay, there you go.
Is it LA moving to?
That's where I was born.
Or someone else.
Oh, Sean.
Sean.
Sean.
Then you know how bad it is.
Yeah.
That's where he was born.
Like not that's where I live now.
It's just where he happened to be born and got the heck out of.
I was born slap dab in the middle of Los Angeles at the hospital's name was city of the
Angels Hospital.
So longer there.
Oh, now we know where you were born.
We can get you to get your password.
So actually more specifically, I'm moving to Claremont, which is a good 40 miles from downtown.
Yeah.
Everything is 40 miles from downtown or LA.
Trouble is everything is an hour and a half from downtown.
Well, everyone.
Oh, you cut out there.
It was a really salient point too.
And I'm sad that we missed it.
Could you repeat it?
I think we got lucky and he dropped off entirely.
Oh, that's not lucky.
I want to hear it.
It is 330 after all.
No, it wasn't me.
I have no points to make about LA other than, you know, it's probably due to be burnt down.
The clock is ticking.
No, it was Dr. Susie who started talking and then it cut out.
It wasn't 330.
Oh, shit.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, because I would love to move to LA.
No, you don't want to move to LA.
LA is the thing is everyone always wants to say about Los Angeles is we're moving to Los Angeles.
The catch is is Los Angeles is a shithole.
And it's not just Los Angeles is a shithole.
It is the city itself is.
But there's also really kind of cool cities around it.
But everyone always says that's part of LA.
Like, you know, there's Pomona and Corona.
Oh, okay.
All right.
Okay.
Those places are horrible.
But even so, even that that's not the case.
It's LA basically encompasses a huge part of Southern California, even though it's not really LA.
I mean, basically LA they want to consider going from Long Beach to the San Fernando Valley.
And that's not the case.
It's basically LA is a very small portion.
The rest are suburbs.
And not saying anything's ever better.
I mean, let's face it, every suburb of LA sucks equally, but it's still not LA.
And if you can get out of this city of Los Angeles and being like the Valley or something, you're better off.
Orange County.
Oh, I live.
See, I live in.
I grew up in the OC.
So the place I live, the only place worse than this on the planet is New Jersey.
And New Jersey is the asshole of the universe.
Again, I can't argue with this.
No, you know, the fact that you said that, no one even like just hesitated like, no, no, I'm from New Jersey.
I don't feel and no one never commented on that.
You're right. New Jersey is the asshole of the universe.
Now, I have heard very much the opposite from people who are from New Jersey.
And they say, once you get away from the turnpike, that it's actually kind of a nice state and some nice territory.
But I haven't been off the turnpike personally, so I can not confirm that.
It's because it's too hard to get off the dang thing.
My entire experience with New Jersey is riding through it on the M track.
See, there are places where it is designed to be hard to get to.
My okay, Boxford, Massachusetts, for instance, is a really, really kind of high-income area.
And you would have to like program it into your GPS to get into there.
Because there's, it's kind of a long, narrow town.
And most of the roads are one way and lead out.
So you have to know how to get into the town or you're just going to get lost driving around it.
So I mean, there are places that are designed to keep people out.
I just can't believe New Jersey actually has it that calculated.
I just, I can't see that them having that in them.
Fair point, fair point.
Well, it could be worse.
It could be, you know, a good 45 minutes an hour drive, one way to get to the grocery store.
And that's not because of traffic.
That was, that was where, that was my situation when I lived out in Harkers Island.
That's a long drive.
You know, I used to love driving and I wouldn't care how long it was.
But the older I get, the less I want to drive.
I hear you there.
Well, as you get older, it gets more dangerous because, you know, you can't see and your reactions go down.
And you can barely see over the steering wheel.
Time.
Well, like, well, I still love driving.
I drive an hour every day.
Two hours every day.
I should rephrase that.
The older I get, the less I want to be in a car.
If I'm in a car, I have to be the one driving.
Oh, okay, that's different.
I have to be the one driving.
Cover two.
Are those regular hours or metric hours?
Those would be metric hours, sir.
Oh, that's better than.
How many nautical yonders can you traverse in a metric hour?
64.
42.
42.
You're not driving Clot 2's amphicar, are you?
Hey, my boat could do 42 in an hour.
I did the parcel, the, uh, never mind.
Speed it up.
Are we mixing nautical and shit right now?
I mean, really?
Are we holy shit?
Yeah, forget that.
Did you mean to talk about the castle run, sir?
So wait, wait, wait, we got, we have nautical shit now.
Like as in the length of the turd is measured in nautical units rather than regular units.
Nautical yonders, they're, they're very much different from a land yonder.
If you say it's over yonder and you're on the ocean, that's, that's wicked far.
Or we're considering nautical shit is a actual measurement of distance.
So a nautical shit is different than a land, uh, shit.
I don't know where I'm going with this.
Sorry.
Well, nautical shits float.
So it's.
Yeah, nautical shit is a verb.
Who dropped the jacuzzi?
Shit.
Okay, so.
So we're all getting fucked up right now, right?
Let's, let's all admit that and just go with it.
So let's go back to whatever we were talking about before.
Who did this?
Sorry.
So Kletto, how did you wind up with a job in New Zealand?
He applied for it.
Yeah, that's pretty much it.
I just, I was on a company's website because I was just out of curiosity wondering what software they used.
And I thought, well, maybe their website will like give me a clue as to what like software partners they're partnered with or whatever.
Um, they had a jobs link and I was like, I could click the jobs link. Why not?
So I clicked the jobs link.
And there was a job that I knew that I could get, but I still didn't think I would get.
And so I applied and they started like actually talking to me about hiring me.
And it just kind of, it took, it was forever.
It took like, oh man, I must have gone on for four months or something.
It was insane.
Like just interview, interview, interview, uh, you know, back and forth.
And then finally, um, obviously at the end of last year, um, I, yeah, I got the job and I moved.
And then my contract got renewed this year.
So I'll be here another year, thankfully.
So if I wind up hating LA, you want to give me a referral?
Yeah, sure.
I can refer.
Yeah.
I mean, I don't know what good it'll do.
But, um, if you know Linux, um, this is definitely a good place to be.
Well, I think I knew Linux.
I mean, it seems like it probably would.
Yeah.
I, I want to say, uh, glad to that.
I mean, it is as happy as you must have been to get that job.
The rest of us were that happy for you.
So I'd like to say you can't imagine how happy we were, but I bet you were pretty happy to get it.
So you probably can, but we all were that happy for you when we heard about it.
It's fantastic.
Oh, thank you very much.
I have to admit, it kind of caught me for my surprise.
All of a sudden, I heard that you were getting beamed up by your spaceship and beamed back down in New Zealand.
I was like, wait, what?
Yeah, I was, I was excited about it.
And, um, I mean, there's just something.
Yeah, I mean, I mean, New Zealand's beautiful, et cetera.
But I mean, there's something about walking into a meeting room or maybe even a full-size theater and seeing like on the, on the big screen up at the front of the room, the KDE desktop.
You know, it's just like, this is what I do for a living now.
It's it, it was pretty satisfying, but I guess Hansen Park knows about that due to Red Hat.
Oh, yeah, it was great.
Although a lot of times it was no more.
Actually, one, one major showed up with a bunch of running it one day and he definitely got some cat calls for that one.
Woo!
I mean, it could be worse.
Can I ask what years you worked at Red Hat?
Um, up until about six months ago.
What department?
I was on the kernel team, GSS.
How do you mind me asking how it ended?
Was it a layoff or what did they, are they having trouble over there? What's going on?
It was a layoff, but they were, there was a little bit of a spike in layoffs there.
From wondering, staying all of their hiring people back in, but at this point I'm moving on, so.
Well, I'm just wondering if you might have known my old roommate from college.
He works there or worked there.
I don't know what he's doing now.
What was his name?
Oh, his last name, well, his first name was Summers.
Doesn't ring a bell.
Red Hat's fairly large company these days.
Yeah, I think he's in design.
Yeah, like I said, I was doing kernel stuff, so.
Probably wouldn't have even run into each other unless we happened to be in the same building and.
We went to get food at the same time or something like that.
Seems like Red Hat would be a pretty great company to work for.
I mean, just in terms of productivity and creativity on the job.
I mean, I don't know how, how they treat their people or whatever, but it seems like a pretty cool place to work at.
I mean, you got things like management bought us beer and.
We have Nerf gun wars and all that sort of fun stuff.
My, my desk chair costs more than my truck.
Wow, okay.
Dude, I just this new job that I just got.
There's none of that going on, but I can't tell you how refreshing it is, how freeing it is, how awesome it is.
To work in a place where people don't get mad at you just because you're smart and where.
Like, I mean, just that alone is worth would have been worth making the move.
I would have moved years ago if I had any idea, but you know, there's also like people there are smart enough to.
To have a conversation without words, you know, like there's jokes exchange without people speaking the jokes and.
Like there's always like a hidden conversation going on and it's always fun and upbeat.
It's just it's incredible and oh man, just just moving to a new job sometimes can refresh everything.
Dude, it was totally like that right now.
I mean, by far the smartest group of people I have ever, ever worked with.
Why do I always end up working with stupid people?
Is it because I'm stupid or I just don't interview well?
You are kind of dumb.
No, it's because there's so many of them out there.
You're bound to land in a pool of them.
So I just end up with religious fanatics constantly. I don't get it.
Well, you did work at Quaker School for a while.
Yeah, I was going to say that one's kind of your fault there.
You did work at a school of religion.
Yeah, that's all on you.
Sorry.
That one was totally my fault.
And one of the worst things I've ever done and I've done some messed up stuff.
Where are you working now, 330?
Or not where, but like what?
I mean, you've obviously moved on from the school.
What are you doing now?
I'm currently doing absolutely nothing.
Of course.
Sounds like you shouldn't have moved on from that school.
No, actually, it's working out. It's working out great.
Who cocky always does?
Are you deriving an income somehow?
Well, if Peggy will get back on the corner, I'll get my money.
I said $50.
Bitch.
No, right now I'm in the R&D phase of a company I'm starting that will hopefully not land me in jail.
I need a kernel engineer.
Need a kernel engineer?
Only if a kernel engineer can create paint sprayers and other graffiti supplies.
Well, I do have some experience.
Or if you have a really good mace recipe.
It's going to be a kickstarter for your bail.
Well, as far as the mace goes.
No, that kicks turn her fun to anything.
Just dry you up some ghost pepper and grind up the seeds and there you go.
Do not encourage him.
That was actually my plan already.
No, no, no, I'm encouraging him.
This is going to be some entertaining shit right here.
No, no, keep going, man.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, we want to watch him go down in flames.
You think you could kernel hack some sort of life recorder for him so we can see all this?
Give me an Arduino and so a few other odds of names and sure.
I just super glued go pro to my head.
That's what I was going to say.
Well, minus the super glue, that's a 330 touch.
All right, we really go into this nerdy on stuff.
How about we go old school?
Somebody could raise a camcorder over his house and it would start recording shit.
Last time somebody brought a camcorder over to my house.
Well, yeah, you can download it.
I already have.
Oh, God, have I.
Okay.
Get it, get it, get it.
It's something it's something a lot simpler.
You just have a little camera with tiny little hard drive and it just, you know,
kind of records.
And then when it gets to the end, if, if no one on IRC said,
Oh, keep that part that it just records over the beginning again.
I don't think you need all that much.
Nixon came up with that.
Didn't work out well for him.
I'm not hoping it works out well for 330.
I'm hoping it works out entertaining for the rest of us.
Just like Nixon.
Valentine wire.
Valentine wire.
I have just a brick and point.
Once the memory is full, I can upload it to archive.org.
There you go.
Just every minute of my life.
Put it onto hard core, you know, like,
put it into like three raid five backups geographically dispersed so that it will
take, you know, some pretty hard doing to get rid of it plus some disconnected hard drives
in various places.
So it's just there for all eternity.
Please, you said raid.
I got to jump in here.
I worked with the most badass raid setup that I've ever seen in my entire life.
It was a 170 terabyte raid array.
And that was actual storage space of the raid,
not the storage of the combined hard drives put together.
Holy shit.
What was managing the array, just the like the raid card?
I mean, like what file system were they're using above that?
NTFS.
I believe the Faltus was the FAS.
And it was being managed by a red hat six box.
Well, that makes sense, then.
Oh, wait, red hat six or red hat enterprise Linux six.
Red hat enterprise Linux.
Red hat six.
They didn't need the USB in there.
You know who cares?
USB for the devil.
A devil.
All I know is I got to work with that one for a week.
And then I got to work with a 60 terabyte raid array.
And that was being managed by windows.
And the red hat server rebuilt and the hardware of the servers was almost the same.
And the red hat server rebuilt the raid array because some drives had been lost.
And the array had to be rebuilt.
The red hat thing rebuilt it in like two days.
And it took the windows box a week.
What did you fill your raids with?
What were you doing?
Seeming.
Forks make data.
Actually, I know what I could do with the raid array of that size.
There's a dude trying to speed the list across the mountains in Tennessee that is basically doing high quality recordings of satellite emissions.
And he says they take up a crap ton of space.
Well, this is for.
We were doing work imaging seismic explosions, controlled seismic explosions and reading all the data from all the sensors at the same time from each shot.
That was taken.
And then recording all of that data and then compiling that data together to make a pretty graph of the oil is here.
Well, fracking.
No, not fracking.
We were looking for oil.
We also found gas and everything else.
But mainly we're looking for oil.
Cool.
Pants and pirates, friends, sounds like he's recording the Godstream.
Glad to.
Could you approve of that?
Absolutely.
Thank you for even thinking of mentioning a term that I came up with that's very flattering.
That God's true.
I didn't even I didn't even bother listening to the book club review.
I was too scared.
But thank you for reviewing a book that I that I wrote.
I'm glad you didn't bother because we haven't posted that one yet.
I'm behind in my editing.
Like so.
Perfect.
Don't don't don't post that.
No, it's a good one.
I really liked it.
I like that book.
We also did.
We also did.
Did.
Lost in Bronx's latest book.
And he wanted.
Yeah, I wanted to be on that one.
But I think I forget something interfered.
I think there was maybe on the Saturday that the hour of code.
Like this event was happening.
Yeah, I love his.
It wasn't a Saturday.
We don't do Saturdays.
Okay.
I don't remember what it was, but I do remember something did interfere.
Maybe it was something at the maker space.
But yeah, I love his writing.
And I do want to be a part of a conversation about that sometime in the future.
Yeah, it's fantastic.
So anyway, we he didn't want to be on with us while we reviewed it because he didn't want to affect the things that we said.
So we did like a.
A point release of, you know, like of an episode.
So if it was interesting, like episode 11 and 11.5 was interview with Lost in Bronx.
And it was.
Once it gets added and posted, you'll see it's awesome.
Cool. Okay.
So I just dropped a YouTube link into the chat and I guess I'll add it to the show notes.
It's a video that of the talk that Travis Goodspeed gave that.
30 c3 last year.
The title of talk is hillbilly tracking of low earth orbit.
And it's.
It's basically about how he built a to ball to a satellite dish and hooked it up to a bunch of computers and is tracking satellites and recording what they put out.
The first few seconds are mind me of peg walls lemon tuna mouth days.
Oh, geez.
I miss LTM.
So why to be honest.
You know, it had to come up sooner or later.
And I guess three minutes before midnight and my time zone was about right.
It's came up like four times now.
Okay.
It's the first time he's come up with a life been around.
Yeah, me too.
Why do I talk to your people?
Because no one else will talk to you.
It's still there.
I'll know that right.
I'm so happy about something coming up anyway.
I'm just concerned that he still hasn't changed that shirt.
Some of us love you, peg wall.
We just have really weird ways of showing it.
Oh, I thought I was going to be alone in there.
Thanks, Clatue.
I need that doll.
So by the way, I'm getting a server error when I try to go to the show notes, if you've had.
Oh, snap.
I'm dedossing it.
Oh, and if you get rid of the question mark at the end, it works.
So.
It's the working on this end here too.
I think he was saying he had an errand question mark at the beginning of the the URL.
Clatue, have you ever seen this etherpad thing?
Yeah, I just made some notes before when I was on about the someone was asking about Linux podcasts.
I mean, before this HPR new year thing.
Yeah, the KDE team uses it.
The KDE promo team uses it sometimes.
So I've edited some things in that for them.
Holy crap, I like it.
Yeah, I think it's great.
I mean, honestly, I don't know.
I mean, I'm not in the whole the collaborative editing thing.
I mean, I guess I'm seeing right now why it's useful.
But like in my real life, I don't ever have a need for that.
But I mean, I think it's, yeah, it's fantastic for people who would need that functionality.
Well, I'm just looking at this and like I've got a mailing list set up for the class that I'm in.
And all my classmates are on it because we take all our courses together.
The courses change, but the people in class don't.
And this would be awesome for us.
Todd set one up for us on the audio book club so that we can just kind of.
I mean, do the same thing as we're doing right here.
Collaborative show, collaborative notes.
And it makes the show notes so much better and so much easier.
And with that, we should interrupt and say happy New Year to the Midwest region of the United States.
Some of the regions of Canada and eight more.
This includes Mexico City, Chicago, Guatemala, and Dallas.
And where I am in Nebraska and Chicago, Illinois, like we said, Chicago, Wisconsin, Iowa, Minnesota, and quite a few other states.
Flyover states.
Don't forget Houston, Texas.
So I'm somewhat disappointed in this New Year's because there's a town here in North Carolina called Brass Town.
They used to always drop a possum and the animal lover is put a stop to that this year.
Drop a possum like they would take a possum and drop him off some some structure.
Well, they did like the the ball drop in central in the New York where they had to go.
I don't think there's a possum ball though.
So they skewered the possum?
No, they put the possum into it.
And they slowly lower it down.
I don't think someone was just in a car crash or something.
They put the possum on a pike and slowly push it down.
I think that sound was someone shooting themselves in the head due to the stupidity of a possum drop.
I was looking to point out something here.
There's no fireworks nor meth labs exploding near me.
So I got I think I'm a little bit better at times on them Peggy.
You just don't know how to live.
Drop them possums.
Drop them possums.
So I think a possum drop is far more interesting than lowering an Indie car like they did in downtown Indie today.
So what do you mean the possum?
They put it like tied a rope to a cage and lowered the thing gently to freedom or basically yes.
Yeah, it's even on local TV there.
I've seen it.
I mean, that's North Carolina for you right there.
And so there's a crowd of people standing around watching this happen and then the cage gets to the bottom and it opens and he runs out and bites one of them.
I don't know what happens when the cage gets to the bottom, but basically yes.
They lower the cage gently in a crowd of people standing around and watching.
It'd be funny if they lower the cage gently into a pot of boiling water.
Or even cold water would do the trick eventually.
So after the possum drops, do you go home and like have sex with immediate family members?
No, this isn't West Virginia or Indiana.
Because if so, Peggy's mind a bus ticket today.
I've seen Peggy's family. He doesn't have any hot relatives.
They all look like him.
And you think that bothers him anyway.
With the eyesight in that family, looks are very, very subjective.
Besides.
You can feel ugly.
I feel ugly every day.
Wait, what do you think about it?
That's why you just stand quietly over it.
Well, I think Peggy always has to feel ugly, doesn't he?
Boom!
Only when Dan's around.
Oh, I was waiting for Peggy to get on a time on that one.
Peggy, I think you're pretty.
Oh.
Pretty ugly.
Don't listen to these mean people.
I'm your friend.
You're beautiful on the inside, underneath all the cellulose and the ugly.
You're beautiful.
He is.
I'm a beautiful curvy man.
Oh, let's go find out.
You can say that again.
I don't want to know how you know what the inside of the table feels like 330.
Not feels looks.
My eyes work.
So, how about this for a thing?
How about for next year in Brass Town, we put Peggy in a cage and lower him down.
How about next year we do a video chat.
Do we let him fight people once he gets out of the cage?
Oh, we have to let him fight people.
I'm spreading the rabies.
We don't want a bunch of Peggy's running around in northwestern North Carolina.
Is that your spreading rabies and AIDS?
Is that your pet name for that part now, Peggy?
I can't finish it.
I got the giggles.
That's not the first time he said that to a woman.
Or a man.
I'm going to get out of that cage and have sex with all of pirates and media family members.
Hey, this was once a family show, sir.
Now it's a place to make families.
Amazing.
Since when?
This is HDR.
It's an ass.
It looks just like that of the show.
You guys seem to only pull this kind of thing off once a year.
I should do this more often.
Yes, you should.
You know, Clyde, too.
It occurs to me.
You'd better never let Peggy come visit or we might have interesting things happening with the sheep.
Oh, no, no, wait.
See, I was outside.
What's this going on with Peggy?
Now I'm interested.
We're just hating.
He's...
Yeah, they've all...
Not me.
Not me.
They've all made him their hackie sack.
There's a reason he wears boots and the sheep all know it.
The same reason the scots wear boots.
You're almost as loud as 50-150.
Don't be bad.
You've been trickin' hide.
Who, me?
No, you're mom.
No, it's just your game, 330.
It's not you yelling.
Oh, it's because I'm on my phone.
Damn good audio.
Phone, by the way.
Yeah.
Galaxy S, too.
What the hell, dude?
Galaxy S, too.
It's got that sound.
Ah, shit.
Are you using the headset?
No, no, it's it.
The other thing I would ask is, are you connected to Wi-Fi that's on a, you know, landline connection
or over 3G, you know, LTE?
This is 3G because my cable connection's slower.
Damn.
Wow, that's 3G.
I have not been able to get Plumble to work at all unless it was landline.
Well, Wi-Fi.
Ah, this is the mumble client that's in the store.
Ah, there we go.
Yeah, I prefer that one over Plumble anyways.
Freedom hater.
I have no idea what Plumble is, but it sounds dirty and I like it.
I think I used the mumble client that was in F-Droid.
Yeah, I think so, too.
I think it's when I have.
Yeah, I use it.
It works.
Seems to work good.
And if I'm not mistaken, that's the same one that's in the store.
It's an, isn't it awful?
Ah, it a lot of places.
The LTE is faster than folks have at the house.
Yeah, true.
True.
I do.
Well, only the house part of that is awful.
The LTE part of that is pretty fantastic.
Wait a minute, Pokey.
Say house again?
House.
Okay, no.
I thought I detected an accent there.
What accent did you think you detected?
I thought I almost heard a half hoose.
Like not fully a hoose, but a hoose?
I don't know what I thought.
No, that would have been Cobra, too.
He's in the Great White North.
Okay, Cobra.
Come on, house.
Let's hear it.
It's a house.
Oh, Jesus Christ.
He's putting on that southern accent.
That's not really how he talks.
Oh, come on.
Okay, Cobra.
Say something really like lay it on here.
Something the most stereotypical.
Like, let's frickin' hear it.
He sure do.
You got a party, my house.
Oh, hold on.
Here's it in my pants.
You're not going to detect it.
He's a transplant.
He's the...
He's like Yukon Jack.
He's the northern southern comfort.
Well, like people around here, they say out and about,
and it sounds like out in the boat.
Oh, God, out in the boat.
Which is funny, because I live on the coast.
So, random aside, one of the dudes in the Montereard club
I was in in Raleigh was Canadian.
And it just...
He's actually just cracked me up all the time.
Oh, my wife's Canadian.
I married her cause of her accent.
The answer was hot.
It is hot.
Oh, no, I heard that.
I heard that.
I heard that.
I heard that.
I heard that.
I heard that.
She's streaming it.
She just woke up, sat up in the bed.
I actually just texted her through.
Oh, wow.
It's my marker.
What are you talking about?
What are you talking about?
What are you talking about?
What are you talking about?
What are you talking about?
What are you talking about?
I used to look good.
Dude, she's going to check you into the boards.
Why?
You just got as loud as 5150.
I think a louder.
At least he's not overmodulating.
That's true.
That's true.
Modulation.
It's a gas.
Yeah, I've never seen anybody, like, group of community people, whatever you want to call
it, like, city.
So focused on one sport.
Like, everyone here loves hockey.
And that's all they know is hockey.
What about curling?
Nope, curling's not really that big here.
In an entire country named Doug, what do you expect?
The guys I punch with really like ice fishing.
Oh, no, I do ice fishing.
When it gets cold enough, it's not cold enough here yet.
We've had pretty warm one or so far.
Defined warm.
Does it actually get above 15?
Celcius or Fahrenheit?
Hell.
Let's say 15 Fahrenheit.
All right.
So, except for the past two days, it's been above 15 Fahrenheit for the past three weeks.
Oh, plateau.
What were your temperatures today?
Like, when you get out of bed and get out of the house and get in the car, if you drive to
work, whatever, and you left the house, what was your temperature this morning?
Hang on, I got to meet myself.
It was about, I think, maybe 18, 19.
It didn't break 20.
Celcius, right?
What's that make it like a 64 degrees, something like that?
Yeah, speak normal.
Speak normal time.
Come on, man.
American.
You know what?
I can't translate between Celcius and Fahrenheit for some reason.
Oh, yeah, I can't.
Come on.
Damn Europeans.
I can translate.
So, 20 is roughly 68 degrees.
So, 19 would be minus three degrees off of that and then minus two degrees off of that for 18.
Cool.
So, high 60s is a colder warm.
Yeah, yeah.
That's all I want to know.
Low 60s, not high 60s.
Way too warm.
Way too warm for me.
I mean, this is, for me, December, obviously, but for me, December should be winter and so
it being summer here is very strange.
When I got in the car this morning, it was 12.
I've got a question about schools down there.
Do they operate, like, are they all for summer break now or do they follow?
No, they do.
They do, you know, the whole, like, a semester and then or a term and then they have two weeks
off and then a term and then two weeks off.
And then for this, this is their big, you know, winter Christmas break.
So, they have, I think, a whole month off and then they'll go back to school.
Oh, so they don't have, like, two months or two and a half, whatever we have now?
Used to be three.
Yeah, no.
I think it used to be three or we just thought it was when we were kids because we didn't understand months back then.
But yeah, I think it used to be three.
But no, they don't do that.
They don't have the one break.
They just, they go to school continuously just with breaks in between.
Oh, that's so nice for the parents.
I imagine it must be.
I used to, I remember.
I'll be better for the students anyway.
That's what I think, Jack and Blut.
I remember when I was a kid, every place that we used to live would every, every place it seemed to would follow me around.
They would, like, threaten to switch over to, like, the European model where they go, you know,
continuously.
And it used to just strike fear into my heart.
I just thought this, this sounded like the worst thing in the world.
But now that I'm older and I'm kind of looking back, I think maybe it would have been better just for, like,
holding, retaining the knowledge of the previous term, you know?
I mean, like, those two or three months of summer, I mean, you're, you check out, or at least I did.
You, you forget everything.
And then you have to catch back up the next year.
Oh, speak for yourself.
I was the worst student in school.
I never did my homework, but I always ached all the tests and retained everything through the summer.
And if it weren't for that summer break, I would have dropped out several times.
So in North Carolina, I had the whole moving away from having a long summer break.
They would never fly because beach tourism is a huge part of the economy.
And they want everyone to go to the beach during the summer.
So summer break.
Well, yeah, and they want your high school kids to work at the ice cream checks and stuff.
Exactly.
And back home pretty much all my peers in high school did exactly that.
They worked in the ice cream shops or the surf shops or what have you.
I was the odd guy out.
I was an electrician, so.
Welcome to the club.
Yeah, everyone else had weird hours and all that.
I had an actual nine to five.
Well, actually, it was seven in the morning till three in the afternoon job.
And it was regular hours.
I got paid well and it was everyone else was working in the tourist industry.
My dad would take me to work with him and all the way to work.
He'd drop me off at a house and I'd get to work in.
And then on his way home from work, he'd come by and pick me up.
And sometimes I'd get lucky enough and he'd drop lunch off.
Now I see your park Simpson.
That was a great gig.
I was home school too.
So I usually had on my homework and school work done before or dad left for work.
One of the actually probably my favorite job that I ever had back in high school has worked for.
It was like for poor kids, you know, they put you like a work program.
And I did it one year and worked for like a highway department and just kind of swept up the roads and painted.
Cemetery fences and cleaned up stuff.
And because I made it through the whole program without like dropping out of it or quitting or whatever,
they invited me back the next year.
And instead of doing that stuff, we went and lived in tents out in the woods and did trail reconstruction.
And that was some of like for the whole summer.
And that was some of the best times of my life just living out in those tents and work in my ass off all day.
That actually sounds pretty cool, yeah.
That does sound like fun.
The kids that I went to school with, they all worked at Disney Land and nuts very far during the summer.
So I was a lifeguard for three summers.
That was the best job ever.
Yeah, looking back, they would have been pretty cool to sit out there on the beach and just check out the scenery all day.
Well, I would have loved to do that, but I had nine saves in those three years.
So jumping out of a six foot chair into three feet of water kind of sucked.
You know what? Actually, you guys hit me with a good moment here.
What if we went down the list and go down the list of people here?
And yeah, we're going to 2015, best memories so far.
Of life or of 14?
Of 2015?
Oh, of 2015, if you want to hit up, why haven't you fucking hours you've been in there?
Come on.
I've been here for an hour and I had a pretty wicked pizza.
Well, yeah, okay, okay, so we got some sausage going on up on this shit.
But okay, you know, aside from that, so far, you know, best memory, okay, how about this?
Best memory last year, 2014.
Thinking, thinking.
Yep, that sums it up.
It was a big music festival I go to every year and some friends of mine played there.
And it was pretty cool watching them play.
That means they're making it in a music business and bluegrass band.
Which one is pirate?
Which one are we talking about?
Like music festival band that you knew?
Well, the music festival is called Moral Fest.
I've gone every year for the last six or seven years.
But the band in particular is called Barefoot Movement.
I've known them since I jammed with them in Fayetteville when you were already night, probably three years ago.
So it was kind of cool seeing them moving up in the world.
That's pretty cool.
Mine might be a music festival too.
We camped out there for a week.
And mine was waking up from surgery in July.
Oh, shit.
What's going on?
Were you not expecting to wake up?
What do you mean?
No, we're just routine surgery and probably for two months before the surgery worried that I wouldn't wake up.
Oh, yeah, I get it.
You know, dick extension suck.
No, come on.
What was it then?
It was basically a hernia surgery.
And you know, when you get older, you just wonder, hey, this could be it.
But how old are you, man?
I mean, you know, you're your spray.
Come on.
Oh, well, I'm in my, I'm 54 now.
Oh, you got nothing to worry about.
Come on.
Well, if you're just showing up and you're saying you're 70, then I got some worries.
But, you know, you're fine.
But waking up after that, I get it.
Was that before or after Joe Numbers?
You get the point, though, where you could say, yes, this could be it.
Well, he has a point.
You know, that was, that was before Joe Numbers.
Is there is a dude that I knew from back home that went in for what should have been routine surgery
and the extra stroke on the operating table never woke up.
That was about a year ago that he passed away.
Yeah, you never know when you're going to go into surgery.
But, you know, to be fair, most things progress like you would expect.
But, you know, what, John, thank God you're here, man.
Well, I have to tell you guys what, what brought me back.
I was about to go sleep, but I don't know.
I want to check see if my headset was still active.
It was going to take it off line.
But, I woke up a couple of minutes ago and it was pokey.
And it sounded like he was talking to Sandy and Peggball.
It was, you know, it was like coming back from the dead, you know, or listening to people.
I flashed that thing like, you know, in Monty Python, the old deal.
I'm going to edge.
Yes, you're going to be stoned in a minute.
And I was going to go sleep.
You know, I was about to curl up and sleep.
I thought, well, my head, my head felt probably still active.
The other day.
Holy shit, dude.
That's, I'm envious right now.
The other day my dad called me.
He was like, yeah, my belly button popped out.
I'm like, are you going to go to the doctor?
He goes, yeah, probably next week.
I'm like, go to the fucking doctor.
Are you stupid?
Holy shit, is that the punch line?
That's, that's fucked up.
I like that one.
My best memory from 2014 is my last helicopter ride after I broke my ankle and walked out.
Oh, no shit.
What happened?
I can beat you.
I had an airplane.
Okay.
Okay.
Look, 5150, let's not be a one upper here.
Like, co-op or do a shit.
I was at work and I was walking down the line.
And there were some branches.
There were some trees that had gotten blown over the line.
Line's just a trail in the woods.
And I was crossing over the trees and there was deep snow on either side.
I was trying to be safe and everything and go around them and put my foot on them.
And my boot slip sideways on the ice that was on top of the logs and went down in between them.
And I stuck my other foot, my left foot out and caught myself on the snow.
And then as I put weight on my left foot, I sunk down to about my halfway up my leg and fell over.
And my right foot was still stuck in the log, so snap.
This was at the top of a ridge of a river.
And where we were working was a heliportable only.
So that means you've got a helicopter in and you've got a helicopter out.
So they called a helicopter.
And the helicopter arrived with a couple other guys to help get me out.
And I walked and slowed on my butt about 450 to 475 meters down a switchback path
to the river where the helicopter was hovering on the river because the ice was them.
And got up to the banks of the river and the river was probably in between 50 and 60 foot wide in the area where it was at.
And there was the snow and ice that was on top of the river was really fun because it was the layer of ice that was on the river,
the layer of snow melt and then the layer of crusty refros and snow that was on top of that.
So every step I took, I was like crushing through the ice.
And I was screaming, but couldn't hear myself because the helicopter was loud.
But when I got into the chopper and sat down, it was so nice.
Dr. Susaporn with all respect to your incredibly epic handle.
I was on fire.
Let cobert, let cobert to beat that.
Okay, okay, no, no, all right, all right.
Okay, let's, let's, all right, let's hit up the fire one.
Cobert had a great run. That was badass.
Man, I, okay.
So hope we're all recording that.
Let's hit it 50, 150.
No, Ray's heard this too many times already.
Oh, I haven't. Oh, I haven't.
Let's, okay, give me the abridged version.
Okay, you let on fire or run it around.
You're being sprayed by fire extinguisher.
I'm screaming. We'll go ahead.
No, you're going to have to ask somebody else for the abridged version.
You can't do that.
Bridge, bridge version.
Up, I, I, I, I kept.
Ponying, doing dinner because I was watching Dr.
Who on Netflix.
Time I look around.
Oh, man, it's late.
Okay, 51, 50, stop.
Okay, first of all, what I just heard is this started watching Dr. Who on Netflix.
There are questions that arise.
There's not a lot of things that happen that you say.
I'm watching Dr. Who on Netflix.
I burst into flame.
So please explain.
I said, well, it's, it's too.
Look, I, I make, I've planned this fancy dinner.
I really need to get started on it.
Oh, no, I really need to help add first.
So I, you know, apparently I must have turned the flame up instead of
turned the flame down.
Also, I do boom.
Lighting out.
It's like, dad, we get the hell out of the house.
Okay.
So essentially, you're the nerdy, Larry, the cable guy of this group.
Okay, go continue.
Pretty much, you know, me and a turkey baster.
Oh, son of a bitch.
You got me going.
Wait a minute.
You can't stop on that one.
Let's keep going.
What, what, what is these people set their houses on fire with every year?
I just improvised.
Oh, come on.
You, you know what you stuck your house on.
So it's okay.
It's whether it's center block or fucking styrofoam.
Let's rock and roll.
So go ahead.
Wait before you continue.
Is your mic on the back of your head 15?
Well, that's what you guys told me to do.
Holy crap.
Wow.
That's, uh, wow.
Do you have an open flame near you?
I mean, I, I'm just concerned like, can you shut anything off in your area?
I, I just don't want to see you like breathe and something light on fire.
Uh, the only thing right now is, you know, the, uh, uh, unfortunately I have a natural gas furnace in this house, which I would rather turn it off.
Turn it off.
Turn it off.
Right fucking now.
Turn it off.
But then I'll freeze.
This is regular drunk for him.
This is regular drunk.
This is Tuesday drunk.
If it's Tuesday drunk and it's fucking scary.
So let's turn it off.
I don't want it.
I don't want to live execution on, uh, on a freaking mic.
So be safe.
Turn it off.
And let's hear your story.
All right.
I'll go down.
It would be good for race.
Okay.
You know, go downstairs or underneath the trailer.
Whatever you have to do and we'll wait for you.
How quickly can the heat from a CPU ignite a natural gas stove?
I wonder.
I don't, I don't know if we've tested that.
Let's not, let's not experiment coming on.
Uh, Clotu, I know this much.
The power supply on my, my previous computer actually did burst into open flames.
There are actually a lot of paint on the old power supply.
And it actually melted and charred part of the motherboard.
Now it's on wet busters.
The answer to it is it's instantaneous if depending on the proximity.
And, uh, 50 and 50 has been known to put his electronics in his appliances.
So it is a real danger.
That is true.
He never really had set before.
And, you know, even before that, I can tell you I've had a CRT converted to an arc welder.
It was taken initially.
No, but I think the best was when you were gone for a couple of weeks or a couple of days and you came back.
And every so we then you said, well, I, I, you remember we were all having fun and talking and I was a little drunk.
Well, I woke up the next morning and my headset was melted in the microwave.
That was fun for me.
And the microwave was done.
You know, 51 50, I think you and I could have some fun.
I didn't know where you were.
We're here from.
You frickin' melted heads in the microwave.
I've never done that.
However, I have lost three pants in the attic on ambient.
So I think we're, we're simpatico.
Uh, South Central Kansas, where is that from you?
Oh, California, which, uh, yeah, we're a distance away.
But I think we can hook up.
You know, at least over, you know, Mike or Team Fortress 2 or over drugs.
Possibly.
I say we all just get together, do some peyote and make a day of it.
No, that wouldn't work for the straight edge in the room.
Oh, fuck.
I'm down with that.
All right, who's down?
I, I, I count me in right here.
You could have said peyote, you could have said frickin' quailudes, you could have said whatever.
All I heard was we're going to do blank together and I'm down.
It could have been fucking gay sex.
I don't care.
Well, Dr. Susan.
All right.
Let's make this happen.
Uh, Dr. Susan, I think you need to be down.
I think you need to be down with the fish and, uh, pegwall steak.
So next podcast planning, we're doing this.
We're doing this.
It's going to be like an orgy.
I don't know what's going on.
Gay sex orgy.
Now, tell me this.
This would be a great, uh, frickin' great ratings episode.
Is it was, if you just said, look, we're just going to fucking have gay sex on.
You know, it's going to be people not wanting to do it.
We're just going to bust in their houses.
You know, they're, they're in the IRC channel.
We're just going to bust in and, yeah, it's time for an orgy, baby.
So it'll be like, uh, podcast planning live, West Coast style.
Ooh, I like where we're going with this.
I like where we're going with this.
Because we're willing to be all promised.
Clock two.
We would never, we would not clock two.
We would never do a West Coast August planet live.
But, you know, he's in a foreign country and we don't give it crap anymore.
No, you know what, California is a foreign country.
Screw, frickin'.
Oh, yeah, I thought you were talking about California.
No, we are a foreign country, by the way.
All right.
So here's what we do.
All right.
We find people that we want to be part of this.
But, we set it up as like a candid camera kind of thing,
where we start having an orgy in their house.
And as soon as they walk in, we all just look up and go in synchronosity, you know.
You have to go, oh, you're home early.
And then you have the little, little sound bite just,
put up, put up, and it just fades to the next one.
All right.
I've never been more grateful that I don't feel pretty.
I may get left out of this and I couldn't be happier.
Seriously, TJ, do you have flying riches, you know,
a pool of, they're behind you?
Pool of what?
Have what?
Pool of children here?
Pool of death and acid?
No, why didn't you wash your eyes out?
You know, just, there's, there's something coming through on your audio.
That?
Yeah, that.
Okay.
That's my furnace.
Yeah, you know what?
Look, guys, I want to be, I want, I want some credit for this.
I'm granted, I'm new to the whole HPR thing.
I do want credit for bringing 50, 150 back from the dead.
I'm just going to fucking pass out here about like five minutes ago.
I mentioned porn and orgies and now he's back full on it.
It's all yours.
Yes, we, uh, we, we, thank you.
Yeah, I guarantee you, uh, Dr. Susan porn there, you know, there,
there's people going to be listening to the podcast.
Oh crap, they woke 50 up.
Yeah, that's what, oh, no, no, no, they didn't, I did.
I woke the monster.
I, I'm responsible like basically, like, like the, you know, the people that were bombing
and boy, woke Godzilla.
I mean, that's what I did.
I apologize for it, but I feel pretty good about it too.
Like you're, you're the monster in the channel.
So, congratulations.
And, uh, now it makes me sad.
Oh, I'm glad I make you sad.
The biggest problem though with, with the whole, uh, the whole August planet, orgy,
is what are you going to do the next year?
I mean, it's going to be hard to top that.
I mean, the only real thing you're going to be able to do after that, that'll really have an impact
is something crazy like necromancy or something.
I'm picking the Sony N now 50 points out the folly of man.
There you go.
TJ, we always got a storing contest.
So, you know, we just got in.
We got it to invite flying rich the next time.
So, it occurs to me that maybe we could do orbital skydiving dressed like Darth Vader playing the electric guitar
while screwing dead sheep.
You know what you think?
If you call 5150 dead sheep, I'm down.
Hey!
I said I wanted to fuck you.
What the hell?
You're making it fancy that?
She's sliced.
Can I just like stay in my own room and drink alone?
Are that be okay with you guys?
No.
No, no, no.
No, no, no, no.
Pokey, I think the best thing to do is to not go anywhere near this.
Okay.
Yeah, if I'm shooting up dead sheep, you're going to be bogged next to me.
All cast doesn't mean what it used to mean.
It does now, baby.
It's a fun thing to get sprayed road and say, screw all you guys saw.
Get back to something normal.
What?
What?
What have I been saying all day long?
You know, this is not the safe war podcast.
It never has been on New Year's night.
And it's time we embrace our New Year's freak.
The problem is, I think it's gotten unsafe for HPR.
Nothing's safe for NPR.
Come on.
R-H-P-O.
And it says NPR, holy fuck.
Oh, Jesus Christ.
Well, it's be fair, you know.
All right.
Son of a bitch.
I'm going to shut up.
Oh, those people are more freaky than ever.
Pretend to be.
So wait, wait.
HPR is entering the realm of NPR now?
No, no, no, no.
We're fucking better.
By far.
We're just wasn't admitted.
I thought you was going to shut up.
So did we get to everybody's favorite memories of 2020?
Oh, son of a bitch.
I asked that again.
I forgot.
Oh, my God.
Okay.
Well, okay.
So I think we got cobra.
I don't.
5150.
I don't think we got to you.
He says it every time.
My favorite memory is where the hell did I drop out of the show before?
I already know what the hell I was.
I was including 5150.
So let's step down.
Um, who else is.
I got a pirate.
Uh, I got bots.
Okay.
I'm going to add a listener.
Just.
Okay.
How about let's volunteer someone.
That's not 5150 because that could be bad.
Uh, tell you what, doctor says the porn.
I'm, I'm looking on hashtag cast, plug it now.
And J Rulo,
uh, not really posted.
posted. We've only got a couple hours before we hear the real pie 51 50
drunkenness. So, you know, I know you're you're a newbie, but you
ain't seen nothing yet. Okay, all right. So look, oh, oh, oh, oh,
okay. So this is a challenge. I actually didn't put the, the
math together here. You and I need to rock and roll.
Well, if you think you can tango, I mean, I think all over the
place, people sit near and get all I like Draco 51 50 and they're
like no, Chad could even Draco 51 50. Oh, I'm channel, I'm
fuck, you know what, right now, I'm channeling, I don't think
channeling's the word. Hold on, I gotta take a little breather.
Me too, I'm gonna get a beer. No, I wanted to say I'm, oh, God,
channeling. Oh, my God. I'm funneling a champagne for my
urethra. What's it? I was gonna say, but that's not. Oh, God, I
missed the punch line. Sorry, guys. Yeah, that just got weird.
Well, this whole thing hasn't been weird. Yeah, the last like hour
and a half has been just one event of weird. Look at this about
the time I got on. Look, guys, I made a new room. I saw that
well, you know what, how about, okay, you guys, now at granted, I
am a dooby here. Do you guys do any sort of gaming on here at all?
Gaming? What's that? No, oh, Jesus Christ. I'm gonna say
channeling on there. Oh, God, it's my friend from Bruckensteam.
God, she joined shit. We don't typically do it, not on here.
I don't know, some people like to play the, the, the, I, sorry, for
gratuitous pimp. Sometimes we do the audio book, book club,
like nerd bingo type of drinking game thing, but it's not
that official, but no, not really on here. This is just our
recording room. Wow, the, this last beer is gone to my head.
Sorry, guys. So I want to just give a shout out to Lauren
right quick. Hey, Lauren, how are you doing? I, I got a county
of poke. Yeah, I mean, I don't do it on mumble, but you can
pretty much count if I'm doing an HP R on audacity and kind of
blitzed. Hey, hey, hey, 51. Let's give some credit to Lauren.
We just got to, you know, shout out. Let's all say hi to
Lauren. Hi, I don't know who Lauren is, but I'm going to assume
that she's fantastic and she's a great person. Happy New Year,
Lauren. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. That's awesome. Thank
you guys. Wait, I, I need one of those whistles. I should have
bought one at Walmart. God damn, I love you. Wait, what? Yeah,
one of those happy New Year's whistle. You know, the horns,
you know, what you're going to. I have no idea what you're
talking about. Would you like some some New Year's Didgeridoo
going on? Oh, yeah, man, have we not done that yet? Oh,
did you do those Australian things? Okay, come on, let's hear
it. Come on. Oh, are you an ugly sign or what? Come on,
let's, let's hit it up.
I like that. That's what I'm talking about. One of these days,
I swear to God, I've got to make me one of those PVC pipe and
duct tape bagpipes. Sounds like a porn, you know, thing to
me, but everything smells like porn to me. I think you need to
preach one of the pipes, but okay, guys, I know we're recording
this. I do have someone I need to say hi to. And she is in
their IRC chat. If you can say hi to Danielle, not Danielle,
but Danielle, everyone say hi. Hello, Danielle.
Hi, Danielle. Danielle, who are you? Me hearty.
Yeah, she's Italian chat. Look, I don't know, to our
Danielle. I don't know, but I assume she's a fantastic
person and I automatically like them. So happy New Year.
Well, she's got to be a fantastic person. She's hanging out with
low life like us in the IRC. Really just putting up with Dr.
Suza porn. Low life like me, not low life like you guys, you guys are okay.
Happy New Year, Danielle. May you enjoy all the hairy
bagpipes, so lose that you can. Can I join in on the banjo?
I want to join in with the banjo. Dude, what we need to do
is make a banjo, did you redo fusion band?
What's the movie low life like us? Oh hell yeah.
All right, this is the apparently the naughty part of the show, so I can tell this
story. My brother's buddy, he's a pretty good
bass player and he was trying to put a ban together once and
I don't think he was having much luck because he asked me, he's like,
hey, do you play any instruments? And it was just luck that it came to me without
any hesitation. I said just the skin flute and he actually paused for two
beats to wonder if that would be useful in the band before he understood what I meant.
Ha ha ha. Oh, you know you play very well.
Well, uh, oh, this is back in my freshman year in college and
a girl in my roommate was was saying we worked bar
and uh, you know, and he said we got to pronounce her name in a particular way.
It's like her name was Don, but you had to pronounce uh,
he had to pronounce like a Brooklyn accent like Don.
I can't I can't do it. I'm, you know, I did it then,
but you know, she wouldn't respond. You had you had to do the
accent. It's like, no, DAW and that's how everybody grants a
knowledge on. Oh, shoot, I still can't do it. I don't, I don't
want to tell you the story because I can't do it, but uh, I was able to achieve
it then. So my vocal cords must have been more
supple and less soaked in beard those days. But, you know, I just,
I kind of think it's funny. Storkers. I mean, you know, I could, I could
say it the way I would normally say it, but no, that wasn't rocked. I
had to say the Brooklyn accent or whatever.
A 51 50. Don't worry about it. I can't English either.
It's not flat too. Still here. He doesn't always participate when the show gets
too degenerative. I know. That's the only reason I'm kind of still staying
out right now is to talk to not clap too. So I'm kind of getting
ticked at you boys. I hadn't talked to the guy in a year.
Well, if you are there not caught too, we, we, we pledge not to be
raunchy until you're done talking to cover.
That was my warning. Yeah. Don't make me log in as admonent movie.
Hey, I'll play nice for the conversation.
We didn't find out a couple of hours ago that New Zealand is just as
beautiful as we've been led to believe in, you know, her, the
adventure of Hercules and all the Peter Jackson movies.
As I asked caught to, you know, it's on my bucket list to, to, to go see New
Zealand before I died. It's like, you know, it's what I see on TV
and the movies is like a three acre plot in the, in the, in the middle of a
movie, and then, you know, the rest of the country's as crappy as
everybody else. And he said, no, no, no, that's, yeah, everything's just gorgeous.
And apparently he's gonna discover this in the last couple weeks.
Yeah, it's a fascinating place. It's worth studying. Just read about it. It's
fascinating. Uh, I think we're at John Doe locksmith. Did, did you, what was
your favorite memory of 2014? Uh, that would probably have to be
getting a job in IT and actually being accepted right at the interview.
Nice. That's always a win. Sweet. My cousin's a locksmith. So you're
like one of these guys that goes around to the conferences with all the, uh,
you know, uh, uh, uh, questionable tools and stuff and sets up a table.
That's quite to us pointed out, having the past.
Well, you know, I, I think that's an honorable profession.
As a matter of fact, at one conference, the table in question was the hacker
public radio table. Awesome. Did you pick up some stickers?
You bet I did. No, they were locked down to the table.
Well, what, what we, what we need market is a engraved set of, uh,
HBR locksmithing tools. So when is HBR gonna show up itself? Oh,
hell, what is anyone from I can't explain it or HBR gonna show up itself again?
Do you go to self? I do, although you are HBR.
Well, yeah, there we go. Well, I mean, we lost a great conference this year.
There's not going to be any knell. And a lot of folks, uh, you know,
always go to, well, okay, didn't you go to knell? Uh, yeah.
Wait, what happened to knell if I hadn't heard about that?
I know what that kind of, oh, sorry. No, Jonathan has decided not to, uh,
put it on next year. He's left the domain going, everything. Yeah, apparently,
you know, everything, I don't think the first year he was
everything to it. But, you know, by the second year,
it was all just thrown in his lap. And this, no, no, the first year it was
all Jonathan and his business partner and their wives, uh,
the second year, I believe, was the year that, um, uh, Bruce took, uh, not
took over, but, but jumped in and did a bunch of it. Um, and then the, uh,
let me see the third year. Was there three? One, two, it was two and a
Worcester, at least three. And then there were two years in Boston.
So I think that, I think that the third year, which would be the first year in
Boston, um, was when Bruce really started taking over. And then the last
year, um, again, it was just, it was the two of them. And, um,
I don't know, lots and lots of people wanted to help. Lots of people offered
help. It just never seemed to sink up and connect. And the,
the festival itself seemed like it got way too big
for just two people. Uh, but somehow the people who wanted to help never
got in touch with the people who needed the help is what it seemed like to
me as a, as an outside observer who watched from the inside.
Because, uh, I mean, that was, we had been at every
knell, as HPR, as a table, um, you know, doing the stickers and
doing interviews and stuff. Uh, so it was kind of
watching from the inside, but I wasn't really an insider. I'd, I'd never,
you know, it did anything to help set up North East Linux fast,
except to try to pimp it on podcasts and stuff. Um, and that's,
that's just a way it appeared to me. It was, it always looked like they needed
help. And, you know, I offered and other people offered,
and it just, I don't know if, I don't know how it didn't,
how the people wanted to help didn't connect somehow. I think it's weird.
I think it's weird though, because when, when you're in charge of something and
people offer to help, it's, it's, there's this weird thing where you
actually have to have the presence of mind and the, uh, the time to
then coordinate how they can help. You know, so it's almost,
it's extra work to take help. And, but you know that you need help. Yeah,
it's really, it's hard. I mean, and running a conference,
I mean, I helped out a little bit with Ohio Linux fast a couple of years
there, just as a, just as a sort of a go for really. But I mean,
it was just, there's so much work in, in organizing a conference. It's,
it's phenomenal to people who can do that. Oh, Lord D knows.
Yeah, it is an insane amount of work putting on a conference. And
when you start getting more help, it actually can become, uh,
more problematic to run a conference sometimes because you start counting on
other people to do things. And if they don't deliver, then it becomes a mad
scramble to try to catch up with that lost time. And I know for a fact that
such things did happen at NELF once or twice where people were
lied upon and then didn't come through. And they weren't always
necessarily our community members. Um, you know, a couple times it was the
venues that did stuff like that. And it was, you know, last
minute stuff. And, um, there's no shortage of people
who will complain about things that go wrong at a conference either.
Yeah. Well, I'm guilty of that as guilty as anybody else.
So I wasn't there something about last year that the venue that they
thought they had, uh, and talk to came up with the last minute and set
and said, no, we've, we've all ran ourselves out. And they had to get a
different venue. And yeah, something screwy happened at the last minute.
And they had to change venues within the last, I don't know,
what two or three weeks, I think I think that I could that could be wrong.
But I two or three weeks feels right. And lots and lots of people had gotten
hotel rooms near the other venue that was at Harvard. And we wound up being
not near Harvard. So it didn't really help those folks. Um, and it just it,
you know, and it was not Jonathan's fault. It wasn't Bruce's fault. It,
you know, it was all venue type stuff. But, um, yeah, it's, it's a big deal.
I mean, when you're, when you're the person trying to run those things,
and it, and it, it can feel like a disaster when something like that happens.
And, you know, I, I understand it. I feel bad for them. I wish there was
something I could do to change it. But, you know, I'm sure most of us who
are there do wish we could do something to change it. But, uh, I don't know.
I don't know. When we're, when we're done lamenting, I do have an idea for
this year for the Northeast, if anyone wants to hear it, but after,
no, no, I want to go on. I was going to say, I, I, last
hour and now, last year, it was in question whether somebody was going to
get stuck with the bill for the, uh, you know, for the, for the change of
venue. That would, you know, if that was Jonathan and Bruce, I, you know, I'd
feel sorry for him. It would have been them if someone did get stuck with it.
I don't know if there was a bill and if there was what it was, um,
I couldn't tell you. I know that like, you know, all four years,
they waved the fee for HPR to be there because we kind of did their press and
stuff. But, all four years, I paid the fee anyway just to make sure that, um,
you know, some, some help was happening, but I don't think my one table fee
would have helped if they were in that kind of trouble, which I, I'm not aware of if they were.
And, you know, uh, uh, pukets, it may not be such an alternative, but
if you do find yourself with nothing to do with the first quarter of the year, you know, uh,
I, I would, and I weren't going to do it. I haven't heard anybody start on it yet, but
I'd really love to have you at the, uh, on cast live. I might be able to. It depends on,
on how it falls with my new work schedule. We have a, uh, what they call a four by four week,
which is new to me. Apparently most people seem to know about it where you do four days on and four
days off, um, which doesn't exactly fit on a seven day calendar. So your, your days on and days off
change from week to week. So it, it just kind of depends on where it lands, um, but it's,
it's, it's, if it lands on the right sort of weekend, it's entirely possible. But my idea for
this year was, um, if there's not going to be a northeast linux fest, then I was probably just
going to take the, the HPR's little, um, uh, zoom recorder and go to lever planet and just try
to get some interviews. I could work too, but, uh, we always do our memorial day weekend. And
really, I don't want to creep anybody out of this. It's, it's always old, you know,
it's open to anybody. Roy, this sounded my voice. You don't have to be a podcaster. You have to be,
you know, a listener. But yeah, you know, I can see too that something just jumps in that we've
never heard of. And it's like, yeah, we're all going to live in the same house and who's,
who's this dude? So it doesn't invite just everybody. It's supposed to be for friends.
Well, it is, but I, you know, technically, there's no, but, uh, yeah, there, if you're somebody,
we don't, you know, on the other end, if there's somebody, we'd, you know, never heard of it all,
then you might have, you might have, you know, okay, you, you take this apartment over here.
We're all going to be over there. You might work out that way.
You know, I've been invited to several OCP lives and I still have not been to one. I need to go.
5150, I will say this man. Uh, I don't know you. I've heard about you. And I've only been part of
the community a little bit of time, but, uh, you make me look sane. And I freaking love that.
And, uh, God bless you. And you're an awesome guy. Well, TJ can tell you, if you want to sleep
night, you do not want to be in the same room as I am. Oh, hell no. I've got an open bed, baby. I
got an open bed. Come over here. Let's rock and roll. Oh, I, I, I have an HPR recording,
how bad my damn storing is. You, you need to go listen to that before you say anything.
And on the, uh, whole topic of, uh, conferences, I'm hoping to be able to get something up and
running again in 2016, but, you know, with what, you know, all I dealt with in 2014, there was just
no way to return in 2015. And happy new year, sorry to interrupt, but happy new year to the western
region of the United States. I'm sure plenty of South America and maybe even Central America,
Canada and, uh, apparently two more countries as well, uh, including Los Angeles, San Francisco,
Las Vegas, Seattle, and Los Angeles, similarly time-zoned areas, not Los Angeles. No,
no, it's loving right here right now. Yeah, it's, it's one o'clock here. You're on, man. So,
you didn't have time, Pokey. No, you didn't put your jumps in. It's Colorado.
And Pokey, I, I, I hate to jump on here and, uh, dissipate the, uh, happy new year. Someone was
just saying how they're going to fucking off themselves. So that may not be the best. Like,
all I heard on my head was, I'm, man, you know, life kind of sucks. And, you know,
it's in that and suddenly it's happy new year. I just, it was a really disturbing
sense. I mean, who the hell? I apologize. It is. No, no, no, it was great, Pokey. Like,
like somebody was, it was rhetoric full on, but it was a great moment hearing, like, oh, yeah,
this is a crappy new year. This is, I mean, it's like happy new year, everyone. Oh, it's great.
Thank you. That made, that actually made my new year right there. Thanks, man. Sorry,
at that Cobra 2 did a pretty good job of warning us that it was coming when he stopped and started
the recording. Thank you, Cobra 2. I didn't mean to jump in and shit on you there. Lord,
D, I was completely oblivious to what I did. Sorry. Yeah. So, say, anybody's had a crappy year,
it's 4D. And I might come in second. Uh, you literally got lit on fire. I was going, yeah,
I let lit on fire and my house burned down and dad died. So, you know, if anybody's out there
feeling depressed, you know, no, no, come into the light. Come on, come on with us, we, we're,
we're getting drunk and we're talking shit. Okay, so what we need to do is we need to do like,
okay, we're doing this, bringing in the new year, the 26 hour thing. Who's drinking right now?
Oh, no, you know what? Actually, oh, shit. Oh, my God. I forgot. We're going down the list.
Who is last one to say to about 2015? Uh, guess that'd be me. Okay, well, let's, let's,
come on. Let's, let's go down the list. 2015. What are you looking forward about? Or two?
Or about? I don't know what I'm drunk. No, it was your best memory of 2014. Oh, thank you. Good
God. Thank you, guys. Yeah, John Doe walks was less one to talk and so I guess that put me
next up on the list and it'd be when the treatment for my cancer kicked in, I actually did not get
to see my little girl for about three months straight. So seeing her for the first time after that
three month break and, you know, I'm stretched out on a couch with two different, uh, with the
feeding tube and a drain tube going into me and she comes up and just, you know, looks at me,
you know, just and ask daddy, are you okay? And I'm like, daddy's just not feeling well and she
just reaches up, gives me a huge hug. Kiss says, I love you, daddy. I hope you feel better soon.
That right there was probably the moment of 2014 for me. Oh, you know, yeah, you know what,
you just took it right there, man, but that is perfect. Yeah, and you were, you know, you were
kind of at area when I, when I got back the evening and heard you talking and, you know, you were
talking about what your doctor told you and was different from what you thought and I said,
well, maybe, you know, he was he was thinking about your recovery and not, you know, if he,
you know, implying things that were, you know, not not in evidence to, you know, to, to keep
your spirits up. And, you know, but the thing is, is don't be that like we said, get a second
opinion, you know, do not, do not be distanced and say, well, it's, you know, it's, it's not going
to get any better from here. You know, you got to rise up against this thing. Look, they could have
told me I had, you know, three weeks to live and I would have fought Tuesday meal on every last
moment of it just for that little girl. If nothing else. Lord, how old are you, man? I just turned 36
Christmas Eve last year. Okay, yeah, you're going to fight it. I'm sorry. No, you sent a young,
that's young. Don't, you got a hell lot there. Look, you're going to be fine. We all know you're
going to be fine. I mean, I can tell you these doctors do not always know because, you know, with,
with my burns and stuff and I don't know this because, you know, you got to be, you'd have to
know me before and look forward to see where my burns are. You know, I'm totally cool with that.
It, it, you know, I don't want to be on the pity machine. But the doctor earlier, you know, back,
back in like October, said, oh, yeah, you're, you know, you feel not, you feel fine now.
But when it gets cold outside, you are going to hurt like heck and you're going to need
for narcotics to get around. And the first test I had was late in October. We had some 26 degree
fair and hike days. And probably that didn't bother me at all. And it hasn't, you know, and then
it went back up to like 60 degrees for most of November and the first part of December.
And it's just gotten a little colder than, you know, this, this week, you know, it's got
pretty cold and snow and it's got down to 16 degrees. And, you know, I was told you, you know,
you're going to be miserable going out in that because you're, you know, a year from now,
you'll be fine. Your, your skin's not going to be thick enough to be go out in that weather. And,
I, and, you know, I can tell you, it hadn't bothered me at all. Man, it was, you know, it was like a
sauna. Well, I don't want to say that. But, you know, it wasn't bad at all today at 16 degrees
and snow on the ground. So, you know, I don't, I don't think I have to worry about
anything. But that, that just shows you, or D, that the doctors do not always know what's coming.
Oh, I, I know, I don't understand that to go in 50. It's just, um, the point that my cancer
made to, made it to. And I think the part I left out is, I don't think my doctor that she ever
said that, you know, I would be able to get to remission. I had made that assumption not reading
up and checking on things. And, you know, after she told me, you know, this is probably as good as
it's going to get, um, I did some checking and remission seems like is not something that, uh,
people with the suffigial cancer normally ever do reach. Then again, I am something like
35 years too young for this form of cancer. Typically, the people who normally get a suffigial
cancer tend to be in their 70s. Yeah, my dad was. He was in his 70s when he got it.
There's a lot of this off, you know, you know, they don't deal with young people, they deal,
people they say, well, you know, there's, there's no point fighting it because they don't have that
long left. So, you know, you're, I think you're inversion territory there. Probably so, but the other
thing is they, you know, they kind of had to stop the active chemo because of some of the, you know,
other risks that were involved right now, I am already dealing with, um, chemical induced
neuropathy. If they had continued on with the form of chemo, they were the IV chemo, they were
getting me. I did 14 rounds of that. This year, they risk frying nerves in my hands and feet
permanently, you know, this what I have now is already annoying enough. I could not imagine if
they had fried things permanently. Yeah, I hear you there and, and, you know, if it's the point
where you need to get off of here, please do, you know, because I know we were talking, you know,
months ago, it was like, well, it was hard for you at that time, you know, to talk for any
links. So, you know, if you feel like your vocal cords are getting tired or whatever, you know,
please take a break because it's not that important to talk to us. Uh, you know, what you said,
like I keep bringing it back to me, it was like when I was, uh, you know, in the burn center,
you know, and they were, you know, uh, treating me in all instances, you know, they were concerned
that the woods is going far enough to, to, uh, to, uh, burn out all my feeling in my arms because,
you know, they were doing stuff and it wasn't, you know, stuck to the ceiling with, with, uh, what
they were doing. And, you know, and they were like, are you sure you could feel that? I said, yeah, I can,
I can, I can feel it, I can take it, go, you know, go on doing, uh, what you're doing and, uh,
you know, and, uh, but, you know, it's good. I still have full feeling everywhere, but they,
you know, they were definitely concerned. And of course, they had to keep, uh, probably
follow the stuff I've, uh, built up resistance to, you know, narcotics or whatever. So they were,
you know, they were given an extra shot of, uh, morphine, you know, there's like, can you feel us
doing this? And it's like, yeah, maybe you could give me a, give me another shot there, dude. So,
you know, because, well, it was, you know, after the fire, it was like an hour, no, it's two hours
for anything before I got any help. And the, and the ambulance showed up and it's like, no,
uh, you know, you okay? And I said, well, you know, if you've, if you've got a shot of morphine
in that, in that truck, uh, I wouldn't be saying no to it now. Here it is. I've officially killed
the podcast. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, you know what, you've, you've got the story.
The catch is we're trying to absorb it. Like, look, that, that's impressive. My god. I mean,
my god, somebody else chime in here, because I, all I can say is my god.
Oh, about October, year ago, October, 2013, I was in a crash. I was riding with my brother.
I went from 70 miles an hour to zero miles an hour and about three feet. That was someone unpleasant.
Oh, I can imagine so. How, how's your brother first off?
Well, he's fine. Both of us got out of the car. Like, as in, we opened up the doors and
got out. I had, I had had my worklapse off in my lap and actually most of the damage to me was
caused by the airbags slamming that into my chest. Well, I, you know, I guess those bad things
work, you know, even bust your face on the, uh, uh, in the other panel or anything.
Well, no, the seatbelt would have stopped me. So even if the airbag had not fired at all,
I'd have been high-end, I think. Yeah, I always said that, you know, to catch your seatbelt on
that may, maybe all this airbag crap is extraneous, but you, you know, I don't think these
modern cars are built so well. So maybe you need all that. Yeah, I don't know, but I do know that I
got out of it and mind you, I can tell when the weather's changing these days.
Oh, yeah. Well, that's, that's no good. And I'm only 26 and I'm looking forward to that my entire
life. I've 26. Holy hell. Like, yeah, no, feel good about that. Uh, 26. Feel good about that,
by the way. I mean, I feel good about that being young, but I'm not looking forward to having
arthritis in my whole life. Well, okay, okay. So we're talking arthritis 26, but you're still 26.
I mean, there's stuff can suck, but you do still have life ahead of you. And yeah,
there, you got correctable stuff going on. I mean, it's not cancer. It's not anything.
It's, it's inconvenience and it can suck, but the, you got technology on your side.
Oh, and you've got a whole new career, you know, had some pirate. You can, you can go to TV
station and apply to be the meteorologist. A vast, we got, uh, we got, uh, I got nothing.
So someone, someone take over from my impression. Come on. Well, it's probably mean to me to say that
because he's got, man, you know, I've got real old aching pains because I'm 50 and he's got real
real-world aching pains because he's in his 20s and he hit a wall at 70 miles an hour.
I've been in a, uh, couple accidents and I've got to say, um, the, one of the ones I was in,
the airbag actually caused some damage to my hand of all things because when what it happened is
I was going southbound and a driver took a left hand turn in front of me leaving me zero time to
make the turn and so ended up smashing into him and the airbag in my truck I had at the time
deployed. Well, it caused my hand to pop up and put a giant bubble in the windshield.
Yeah, I think if you got your belts on everything, I'm not sure, not sure if the airbag is any,
yeah, additional safety and uh, I was just like, I was just like these days eating today,
you know, a driver and I really, really hate these drivers to turn in front of you and say,
well, they've got time enough to break and slow down because what if I don't see, you know,
what if I'm distracted? I don't see you and it, you know, it happens all the time.
So some, some of us turn in front of you and say, well, you know, they can break, they can slow down,
you know, I never assume that when, when I'm driving, you know, oh, let me pull out in front of this
person and they got time to slow down and I've killed the podcast yet again. Well, time to go to bed.
I'm back. Pussy lives. So you can all leave now. Sorry, I'm trying to make back.
Now, Sandy, if we leave you with it, you'll just play weird music till the morning.
All right, so it's okay. So it's uh, in the west coast here, 11, 18, probably most people have,
I've already hit the new year. Can we do anything that's going to entertain anyone at this point?
I'm wondering, can we hit up? Like, can we do TF2? Can we do Counter-Strike? Can we do an
Ergis talk? I mean, can we do anything? Anyone got any ideas?
All right, you go off and do whatever you want to. I want to talk to not quite do.
No, no, no, I'm talking. I'm talking to an HPR. Can we, you know, I mean, are we looking for something,
you know, what can we do to have some fun? Uh, that, Dr. Stuss of porn, I, I have to hook you up
because last year, after we hit the end of the official podcast, which would be
six o'clock in the morning for us, you know, because the note goes two hours and I've been up
since a four o'clock yesterday morning. Uh, it went like another 18 or, you know, 20 hours
and we got to blame Marcus. Is Marcus still, he was on. I guess he's gone now. I hope he comes
back, but I, I mean, there, there was a whole podcast after the podcast. Okay, no, no, no.
So that was that. Can we get some speed then? Like, I'm totally down with, let's do it.
If you got a hook up in Southern California, someone can hook me up with an IV, let's rock and roll.
But I'm just, I'm like, is that what we're going to do? Because I'm down with it. This, I was
curious, like, are we going to keep going? Or are we going to, you know, we're going to move
to another medium or are we rocking and roll until the light comes up over frickin' Japan?
Well, we stay here because this is where we're recording the podcast. So that's what this is about
at this point. So we're rocking and rolling? No, I'm, I'm all down with that.
I have a craving for bacon. I'm making bacon right now. Actually, that's kind of funny.
Asshole. Where? Yeah, I'll wait. Oh, you're not in Southern California.
Oh, that sucks. Also, Lawrence is high back from the shout out earlier.
I'd like to hear that. Unfortunately, I think she's on windows and it's not even full of joining.
Why? I'm on windows. I'm on windows seven as we speak. They are mumble,
he's down, down, like the mumble, the windows six, he's safe off on the social twice page.
Thank you, MP. Jesus Christ. Finally, someone's on windows. Let's, all right. Cool. Nice.
Thank you. It's not wrong. Even working windows, it's me. There you go.
I don't windows seven right here, baby. I don't do windows. I'm, I'm Linux right here. I've
been doing Linux. It's all 13 or 14. Yeah, you know what? A lot of us have and we, I granted,
I like Linux. I think all of us really like Linux. What I want us to all agree on is we love
Linux. Windows might have some problems, but let's not jump on the Apple bandwagon. So to me,
actually, the whole like HPR shit, mostly Linux, you know, maybe cool windows, but if I hear Apple,
I'm going to lose my, lose my fucking shit. Well, I mean, let's, you know, HPR's not necessarily
a, a, a, a single platform podcast. So, you know, if, if you want to come in for windows,
if you want to come in for Apple, because mumble is completely pro, pro platform, we're not going
to be judgmental. No, but let's take a poll here. I mean, realistically,
even though we don't have to use, I'm saying Mac is, and I don't like Mac and I don't like Apple,
I get people do that's fine. However, statistically speaking, the people in this room are going to be
mostly Linux. And then outside of that, you're dealing with, you know, what an eighth or whatever
else windows and how many people are actually Mac. No, that's not, you know, a lot of people just
fuck Mac because it's a BSE on the back end. Yeah, that's the problem. The thing is though,
so it sounds like you're not going to be happy with anything. I mean, I've been having this
trouble a bunch of users on my channel that own everything new. So it doesn't matter what
office system you're on, you're going to be mowing that. So, I mean, the point is that 51 was
saying is that we, heck, a puppet radio, don't care. And the point is too, why the hell are people
carrying what operating system people use? It's their choice. It's a free frickin' universe.
Exactly. I want, I want free, I don't want, I happen to not like Apple, but I do appreciate
people that do like it. Same way that's like, you know, I happen to use Microsoft. I know people
don't like that, but I also use Linux. So I'm open to all of it. I just don't happen to like
the operating system of Apple, but I appreciate the people do use it. And I don't, unfortunately,
I have kind of purchased against it, but I still appreciate the people like it. So I got to learn
to do it to appreciate it. Well, one thing I would like to explore, you know, as I understand,
Mumble, like TeamSpeak was a rich proprietary software, and the people wrote it. They found that
they weren't going to make any money off of it, and then they released it as open source. At
least that's my understanding, but, you know, we tried earlier today with a couple non-vision
users, not sure the politically crap term. And Jonathan's been on Mumble quite a bit, but
line by line. Trent and Mike really did not navigate it because, you know, Mumble's based on
the Qt libraries, which are not very accessibility friendly. So, you know, if it project was started
Qt, what platform were they on though? Yeah, see, that was Trent. Mike was trying to get in from
Windows. He said on Debian, he could never navigate the pincies. So I'm on Debian, and I've got
Mumble obviously. Yeah, I can't get Mumble on DBNs. Though some of the other DBNs don't
have the old version, but I don't think you guys are using it. By the way, I should not be able
to talk to you guys because, well, I don't know about John. I don't know about John Newstead
or other server, but Del was six months ago. If you can't go open, you're not going to be able to
talk on the server. But, you know, if I go into my configuration and Mumble, the only thing I
have is self, but, you know, I still on Del was server, I can talk on this server, I can talk.
Sorry for the right. There's Mumble 1.2 point anything. Once you have that point with the other
number, you should be fine on Lopez. Everybody say you got to be 1.2.3.4, and I'm 1.2.2.3.3.9.
Well, you should be fine. Some of the old DBNs only have 1.2 Mumble, which is a really old
version of it. They're the other ones that you're going to struggle. But I can get it from the
rapist because if you know how to add them, it's just, I mean, I have to just use that.
The word you are looking for, I think, for people who can't see, is sexy because,
hey, well, you're legally sexy, aren't you, buddy? I sure am. Yeah, that's the one.
Jesus Christ boy. What was that voice?
Yeah, and like I said, I mean, you know, I told Jonathan, you know, he was like doing witchcraft,
you know, because I don't know how he can do what he does on, you know, on a computer and he's
longer than I am. You know, and a peg wall or T.A., you know, it's like, I see your pictures
that you take and it's like, there's no way I've got talent to take a photograph like that.
You don't need talent. You just need a good camera. Pequels prove that.
Thank you. You do do nice photos. Thank you.
Bow, chicken, bow, bow. Yeah, don't, don't, don't do stuff to be a little T.J., because we do that
all this time. This is some of us more than others. Oh, I'm excited. I'm not at two still here.
I want to know what the coffee is like in New Zealand.
First, I buy the cheque stuff. It's not that it's too bad. The more you advance, you get the more
there will be your ex. Anything around the tier, tier 15 butt range is not too bad. Most of the cast,
I think they would probably be on a 30 butt range. Oh, I don't know. Dad buy the speeds of stuff.
So, but yeah, it's pretty good. If you've got any cash, you can raise the coffee here.
You can compare it with the kind of coffee that I'm used to drinking.
Yeah, it's a speeds of, though. I mean, you're looking at eight, that's a full coffee,
seven, that's a coffee, if you go, don't care. I'm sure you've got money with you.
I was just going to ask for a beverage review.
Oh, at least, claw two would not be completely disgusted with me. I bought a Mr. Coffee,
so I'm no longer warming up folders, crystals in the microwave. Oh, my gosh. Heathen.
I threw up in my mouth. Okay, am I the only one that's creeped out that 5150 was supposed to go
to sleep about about an hour ago, and now he's full on, like, now we're engaged. Holy crap.
Good job, 51. No, this is regular. Yeah, you threatened him with gay sex. What did you expect?
Orchanted. Yes. Everyone, keep in mind that his microphone is pointed at the back of his head.
Oh, well, it's okay. I gotta say, my microphone is packed, is totally positioned at the back of my
balls, so it'll work out well with 5150. Well, I've never talked to my balls, but, you know,
sound like you're used to it. Say hi. Yeah, that was creepy. Okay. Yeah, that was pretty good.
All right. I gotta say that. So apparently, we might have another global economic crisis.
Because Japan is running out of young people. They are not having babies.
Oh, come on. Do you see what it sounds like? I can still hear you.
That's okay, because I don't think we're, we've bought their young people for quite a few years.
Well, I, you know, speak for yourself. Well, Japan is the world's third largest economy, and
they're going to have a population crisis here in a couple decades, and that's going to cause
issues for the global economy. Yeah, you know, what they got some problems, and the issue is,
is they're, they're, they're missing young people because they're being export. Oh, wait, hold on.
Quite sweetheart. Stop fucking talking. Okay, sorry, issues under the fricking desk.
Uh, what we're talking about? Stop speaking Asian. Okay, go ahead.
Well, I mean, we, we've had these alerts for like China, because, uh,
well, not, not to put too far to point on, you know, uh, they drown on, you know, baby sometimes, you know,
uh, uh, uh, I don't think that it happens much anymore.
Well, well, probably not, but, you know, we, we've heard these stories that, you know,
someday the Chinese are going to go invade Russia because they don't have whipping.
Well, that part of Russia they could invade won't produce very many.
And one woman for them, just a bunch of trees and ice.
What do you want to do? I don't want sense. I would like, I'd like to point out a problem with this.
50, you talking about China, the original comment was about Japan.
Well, no, but I'm, I'm saying that, you know, maybe, uh, perhaps,
you know, somehow, somehow a related problem, you know, I, if there are no way related,
they're completely, they're a completely different people.
Japan even get along with each other that they're not, it's not the same.
Well, Japan, there are more delinemies.
Oh, of course, in Japan, you know, they don't have any place that they can really go with this.
You know, you know, we got to get on both your plane if they, you know, if they were going to go
invade someone, increase their population.
Who said they're going to invade anybody and who said they have to use both
their planes? They could use a vacuum tube if they really had to.
What's this got to do with anything?
Well, now, foreign relations with 5150.
You know what? I'm going to shut the fuck up and let you guys call this one.
Can we just change the subject instead?
That black seven YouTube channel is freaking awesome.
I wouldn't just want to be doing for the last hour and a half of this watch for you,
besides of it. So, I'll be bringing back memories.
Thanks for that.
Anyway, that was.
Glad to see you still around.
Blank locked, too, it says fault.
I thought you were shutting up.
Well, we're talking about Blank 7, not about China.
Glad to, are you still around?
I know you probably wouldn't want to admit it at this point, but if you are,
I like bacon.
I've got a bacon, but I can't have bacon.
I don't have coffee.
I'm not supposed to coffee, but I'm not going to have a coffee anyway.
I'm going to go and make one.
It's fun.
Hey, Cobra, too.
What are you drinking tonight?
You got a beverage to review for our HPR New Year's Eve show?
Oh, you guys chase Cobra, too, away.
That's that's terrible.
Well, I'm sure it must be Canadian whiskey of some sort.
No, he's, he usually drinks bourbon if it's hard liquor, I thought.
I could be wrong about that, but I thought I remembered bourbon.
Sound chaser, you must be drinking something decent.
Actually, I've just poured for my first and probably only alcoholic drink of the evening
an Irish coffee with this big shot of genus and some Irish cream.
Oh, I thought Jameson's was Irish cream.
No, Jameson's is Irish whiskey.
Oh, right.
Okay.
And what's the Irish cream?
Is that a non-alcoholic additive?
No, but it's a, um, a liquor.
So it's like a, uh, a cream-based liquor.
Right, okay.
So like doubled, like, yeah, Billy's the most kind.
You ever drink baili's from a shoe?
No, no, no, that must be from something which, uh, I'm sure TJ will lose today.
You want to go to a club or people we on each other?
Why do I think this makes more sense than like Batman voice?
Hey, well, I'm trying to change the subject, man.
Hey, Pokey, how do I contact you over, like, instant messaging?
Uh, just double-click my name and mumble.
No, no, no, no, outside of instant messaging, like, tomorrow.
Oh, probably like an email or a text message to my phone.
I don't have your number.
Would you like to send that to me?
Would you like me to send him your number?
That's already done.
Uh, do you do an international texting?
I don't know if I can do international texting.
Um, just, uh, direct it to me on, uh,
quitter or whatever that is.
Well, no, I'm just wondering, do I contact you through my Google voice number
or do I contact you through my Canadian number?
Oh, I don't know.
Probably the Canadian, I mean, the Google voice number,
because I don't think I can do international that easily.
Please, just just contact him at, uh, uh, uh, Pokey, at the book club is always
to translate.com.
The Americans, they tend to be, the Canadians are fine.
The Americans can be jerks.
And, um, I, I've just decided, um, you know,
that one day to really upset them is to change my name all the time.
Because it's not like I'm after subscribers,
and well, I might have got like 40 on that channel.
So I'm like, well, I just pushed them off and just changed my name again.
Now, they're getting going again.
I got a like doing that.
It's fun.
I like half the money or anything.
Like, who wants a big channel with a thousand subscribers?
That would be awful.
Someone who would like to, uh, monetize what they create.
But why?
I mean, the point, the whole point with that is that I dislike talking about
spooky stuff that come across.
And I like to, I mean, if you monetize your channel,
you're going to have ads that you don't make, I've had a channel before,
which, um, let's use, which was about a thousand subscribers,
where you were at ads.
And, um, I just didn't make money off YouTube.
But then you start getting into all this crap with the other channels
and, um, all that other people are contacting you to join them.
I'm not really into that now.
I'd rather just be fun and just be happy and just be me.
I was just at the IRC, uh, Pegel's.
So now, lady was up and I said, well, I got it.
You know, I've been up since Ford, but I guess that probably didn't count
because whenever I drifted off in my, uh, in, uh, my car chair from Dan
and my dad's, you know, however long I was gone,
I must have been asleep.
It's copyrighted 70 years.
I thought it was 40.
It's just, um, maybe now, I thought, right,
Seven will be copyrighted by now.
Like, um, the crap comments.
It's, um, it's been 70s, so.
Depends on your local.
The mouse laws, with Mickey Mouse laws in place now,
it's something like almost 200 years.
Oh, I don't know.
I'm never going to, I just, I'm never understood copyright.
It's different for each country.
It's different for each.
For example, give it your own,
with our big music, you know, videos, whatever.
And I just, they're wet, right?
And that's just stupid.
Yeah, it's like 70 plus the, uh, life of the author.
And then, you know, if you've got a big operation,
you can stand it almost infinitely.
All right, folks, I gotta go visit the head.
The original TMI, buddy.
Reason for, the original reason for copyright isn't stupid.
What copyright has become is stupid.
Yeah, I agree with that.
To our completely agree with that copyright system.
This is about where I jumped in tonight.
Yeah, it's just stupid.
The people making the laws don't even get what copyright is.
So they're making the laws, or they're listening to people
that are giving that copyright for a completely opposite reason
to what it should be.
Everyone's sharing stuff online.
It should be just shared and just let it go
and just let people share stuff.
The people making money online now,
the people that share the content and then do it legally.
Well, I don't know, I think it would be weird
if you had everybody in their brother
remaking Steamboat Willie online.
They do on YouTube.
Anyway, they do all sorts of fricking
take-offs and stuff and spins and all sorts of crap.
I mean, I like that one good thing about YouTube
that you can actually go and watch a, you know,
Star Trek remake by some fan somewhere.
And there's nothing wrong with it.
Oh, not even by just some fan,
by the original stars and stuff.
I mean, you know, look up Star Trek renegades,
you know, some day it wasn't the,
that was actually supposed to be on TV.
I don't know if it was like blood and comb and got screwed up
or whatever by somebody.
But man, I am really looking forward to that.
Even more than an accident.
But yeah, you know, you got all, you know,
Star Trek and Star Wars.
But you've got all, you've,
well, you've got your fan stuff,
but you've also got, you know,
this incredibly polished, you know,
stuff with actual actors and, you know,
other professionals behind it.
So, you know, and neither of the controlling entities
are really, you know, stomping on, you know,
as long as there's no profit being made.
So, I think I do think this is a model
going forward of how our media is going to be built.
See, 50, you kind of bring up what one of my biggest
concerns with Disney taking over LucasArts has been.
You know, I'm LucasArts.
There's always been this really rich
fan community that has made some incredible videos over the years.
So much so that LucasArts at one time used to host a lot of those
on the Force.net and now that Disney owns it,
I'm just worried about, you know, the future of that fan-created content.
I'm just scared it'll show up on,
once upon a time, next, you know,
I'm afraid we're going to get the Star Wars,
I imagine they probably will.
But it occurred, it occurred to me the other day
that a thousand leagues under the sea was the Disney film.
So, I completely expect next season
where we are going to see Nautilus vs. Jolly Roger.
This day's been right here in this year.
Like, about the top 20 movies, I think I've got 14 of them,
I tend on them.
So, they are raking in the money.
I've been interested to see what they actually made as a company this year.
It's quietly.
Breaking news.
Bush has quit his board post and made make a run for the White House.
See, let's go.
I've got that in New Zealand and you reckon we don't have the use.
So, another bush in the White House might make it be found
through the copyright rules, laws will be changed now.
Better than he's in there now.
I disagree.
I think he's probably the exact equal to who's in there now.
Oh, agreed.
Okay, I'm on it.
Hey, I'm mighty pleased to have you in my lifetime.
Is that what we need to do to bring Claude to in the conversation?
We got to start talking politics.
No, no, no, no.
I'm sorry I gave that impression.
My least interesting topic.
Yep, no, no.
Let's have all backup politics here because that's going to be bad.
Hey, Claude too.
I've been trying to break into for a little bit to try to get your attention,
but you weren't around when I tried.
How's the coffee situation in New Zealand?
Oh, it's brilliant actually.
Well, I mean, at least in Wellington,
like apparently Wellington has a reputation,
and maybe in Peabird could give me some insight into the rest of New Zealand,
but Wellington has a reputation for being like the cafe city.
So there are really great cafes like all over the place here.
No, no, no, no.
There are probably 20 cafes per square mile
and every fucking city in New Zealand.
Not just what I'm doing.
Yeah, so it's, and it's good coffee too.
I mean, it's like really seriously good coffee.
The two bad stuff you can assume that it's fine.
I'd buy the special brand where it's called.
It's like two bucks from the supermarket that does me for a couple of weeks, maybe.
I get Robert Harris.
That's that sort of machine brand.
Oh, this is Ben.
It's just pizza stuff.
There's like nine bucks about 10 of them.
So what do you buy and clap to?
Buy the cup or you buy in beans or a little of each?
No, I just buy the for, I mean, like for for home,
I just buy the the pre ground stuff.
It's a brand called Robert Harris, which I thought was the cheap one,
but apparently it's not.
But at work, we at work, we get free coffee.
Like they have an espresso machine with like three different stations.
So three people can be making espresso at the same time.
Holy smokes.
Do they all have to make it for them?
Could you know how to do it and they don't?
The coffee machine's here out there.
It's too bad.
I actually nearly one for a hundred bucks at Christmas,
because it was not a real so stream machine.
Life doesn't drink coffee.
So I lost.
Oh coffee machine.
So does it get the designs on the coffee for you
or do they have a clinic to tell you how to do that?
Why happens is it's a little, they come capsules.
I don't even know how to do it.
I don't necessarily book them into it,
but they make these little capsules.
And they're like a tea type thing.
But they come in like a little pellet.
The pellet goes into the coffee machine,
then the pellet makes the coffee.
And then you put the milk in it and it just makes whatever you want.
So it's actually quite, it's quite expensive.
Although we're trying to work it out.
It's about 10 bucks a week for the coffees.
If you have one in one a day,
it's about 10 bucks a week sort of thing for those.
You know, I mean, yeah, it's not too bad.
And they make quite nice coffees.
And the more speaks of coffee machine,
you've got the better coffee you get.
I completely disagree.
There is nothing that beats a French press.
Nothing.
What's it to say, Marcus?
That sounds a lot like a cure-ed.
Oh, I'm a cheeky guy.
So I've got no money.
So I bought the check stuff.
Picking Peter Jackson's got the most expensive
fricking coffee machine on the staff for me, but
it's quite like...
I have no idea.
So Clot 2, that was actually a serious question.
When you go to the espresso machine to make your coffee
to other people, like ask you to do it
because you know how to do it.
And they're all just incompetent.
No, actually a lot of them actually really make...
I mean, they...
I would say they make like fancier looking coffee than I do
because they actually do the espresso,
the steamed milk art.
I don't...
I couldn't care less how the thing looks.
So I don't do that.
But no, it seems everyone pretty much
knows how to make coffee around here really well.
Bitchen.
Yeah, I could be surprised.
I could get a job just as the coffee maker
for Peter Jackson, but he probably paid a lot.
I'll do that.
It's flying me over to Wellington for, um,
two or three days.
Flying me back.
I'll be all good.
Can you make coffee that good at all?
Ask them two or three days?
No, I can't make coffee crap.
I'll tell him what, if he's gonna fly me over, I'll learn.
I watch YouTube video, I'll be speak.
I would seriously be interested.
What new things have you learned because of your job,
if you can go into that, any?
I really can't.
I mean, a lot more Python than I ever knew.
That's for sure.
And JavaScript, that was cool.
Uh, I'm surprised he's got a lot of programming
and it's maybe sparse.
Does that just want the special fees?
Yeah, it's all the all the back-end stuff.
I mean, yeah.
I don't really know how much I can say,
so I just won't say anything.
But yeah, I've got life in the world,
what have you learned just by being in a different place?
There you go.
People who talk funny.
Oh, geez, a lot actually.
But I guess broadly speaking,
that, you know, I mean, I've traveled a lot through my life anyway
because of my, you know, my dad was in the Navy,
so I mean, travel's not really that new to me.
But, you know, I mean, I've learned that sometimes
when you move somewhere else,
you know, you, I don't know,
you do lose a little bit of something
when you, what, what you leave behind,
which is kind of more poignant than I'd expected from that.
Because like I say, I've moved a lot in my life,
so I didn't really expect this move to be that big of a deal.
But I'd made a lot of friends back in the states,
most of whom, like, or many of whom are here
in the channel right now, speaking.
But, you know, I mean, it's weird to go so far away from them
and not really have any way to actually see them again.
That was kind of surprising.
I possibly can profile out of the big,
don't feel free to give it around,
hanging the handle around.
And I'll, I'll say a lot too,
that I think one of the communities
that's going to be miss you set
or miss you the most is just the conference scenes in general.
I know that, you know, when I get a conference up and going
again, it's going to be rather disappointing for me
to know that you won't be there most likely.
Yeah, we mean it's tough to not be there.
The conferences, I really miss the conferences.
Oh, that's awesome.
By the way, Clad 2,
I was similarly impressed with something
at a conference as you were.
And until you pointed it out,
I didn't even realize it.
But I went out last week
and I bought a little corner cutter
that makes corners round on pieces of paper.
Yeah, yeah, those are cool.
I use it for my vacuum sealer bags
because I hate the sharp corners
that those things leave and poke you with.
And I have one of those.
I could have sent you it for like nothing.
I bought it for next.
Bear, he comes in.
Cheever to buy the new one.
I'm old, so I'll go to Linux comp.
Yeah, Clad 2.
Yeah, I'm not going.
I can't, I can't imagine anything
with something in the room with 600 minutes users.
Then what are you doing here?
Kill me.
Honestly, I can't imagine
that I'd have been a worse thing either.
What are you doing here?
If you couldn't imagine
being in a room with 600 Linux users,
that's like the best time in the world.
We're all in here.
We're all in here.
What the hell?
No, I actually offered those,
those got hold of me
and wanted me to help out.
No, I see.
Well, it's actually cheaper for me to go to Sydney,
where I am.
Like, I'm actually cheaper for me to go to Wellington.
And I just said, look,
it cost me 800 bucks
just to get there and back.
Put a plus accommodation.
I really couldn't do it.
And I applied for funding
and they team a deal.
See, fine, I'm not going.
I don't blame them for turning you down.
You just said you couldn't think of anything worse
than being with them.
And the last month of pistol.
Yeah, what the hell?
Jesus Christ.
That's like the last shit.
I've just, I've just got really annoyed
with the Linux community.
And just pissed everyone off.
So picking if I go into a room.
It's so rough then.
Oh, you guys are heck of a public right?
Yeah, you're not just on its users.
You're like everyone.
But see, what the hell about the latest community
giving you crap.
And then you, you know,
sit there and just
troll them.
And you expect them to,
you know, be nice and friendly to you.
Maybe the wrong neighborhood, son.
But you think this is what I wouldn't be
a room with 6.50 glances.
You started the shit.
No, you think it's just like
we shouldn't touch that boy.
Listen, just to be clear, Marcus,
we still like you.
We're just making you eat your eggs.
No, no, no, no, no.
The point is that I get really annoyed
by the free soft in that side.
They press me off.
I get really annoyed.
Fuck off.
No, no, no, no.
Okay, I'm backing up him right here.
Okay, that if you're if you're crazy on it,
you want to like
get some crazy ones around like trust me.
Yeah, no, no, I'm with you on that.
That's me.
I am the free software.
No, no.
I don't want to be.
You don't have to be.
You can be pro it.
But don't you don't have to hit it hard,
core.
I mean, there are those
proprietary software out there.
It is a religion.
You can tell the people that
join and that's what pisses me off.
That's a lot of work.
It's something to say.
Okay, Pangilette.
Okay, Pangilette.
Well, like, you know, we'll just
follow that.
No, okay, look, come on.
I can be friends.
That religion wise, I'd be
friends with anyone.
As long as that,
get me the join.
I'm going to like that with the
free soft.
That's not a good one.
I like that.
And it's too light.
It's the same with the other
thing people that piss me off are
the latest.
It's type in a terminal day
and no graphical and
still are needed.
I know everything.
Everyone else.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Let me, let me have the mic for a
second.
Go for it.
I don't, I don't know if you've
realized this.
But if you're surrounded by
assholes, surprise, you're the
asshole.
Oh, oh, oh,
cobra high five.
Oh, got good guy.
Hold on.
Excellent.
We need a high five.
Also, most of us here prefer a
distro without a graphical
installer.
I'm leaving.
I'm going down to the
basement.
No, no, no, no, no.
Oh, guys.
Oh, okay.
I'm, oh,
bruise room.
All right.
I'm there.
Oh, what?
No, they came back.
These night drinks and
you know, I'm just going to
stay here.
No, I'll fucking go there.
Like, you were there.
I'm going to go there.
Screw it.
Yeah, if you go away,
Marcus, who's going to do
the after show?
I'm going to have to go
so you know what?
It's like a
nine o'clock night here.
I'm a West.
You're home from working
you time.
So it's pretty much going to be
gone.
So you're
I see how the
light up the asshole
asshole persona
and be a normal human being.
He's going to
he shows a
pass.
You'd hate it here.
It shows up.
Starts a bunch of
shit then leaves.
I'm actually good at
changing topics.
I'm good at studying how much
a prey pack.
And then I'm just good at
this leg.
I'm going now.
So you pay.
Well, you make him sound like
you.
I'd do it better.
And I'm legally sexier.
Well, you're probably
that.
Yeah, that's true.
Then take it away.
Sexier owners.
I want bad job.
I'm going to comment in the
chair room that I
read.
I don't have to be sexy
because I'm
I'm married.
Someone's someone
team using a younger than me.
And I can be I just think
myself going.
You know, I don't really
give a crap.
All right.
I tell you.
Clot 2.
Do not count out.
Do not
count out
seeing us again.
Because one of these days
we're all going to show up
on your doorstep.
And I'm going to be
dirty and greasy because we
got over there
clicking to the
spars of flying
riches.
Home built plane.
Like all the guys on fly
the phoenix.
I can't wait.
She was so the soccer
team I support.
I use you on soccer
team and the A leg and I
do it straight and
leg and I don't really
well at the moment.
Quite the yeah.
Okay, didn't know New Zealand
had a soccer team.
I use you on
and I do not say the
signs every way.
I know about that.
But when you see Clot 2,
here's it's a translation
problem.
I know about the black soccer.
It's football.
I was going to say
Lucas.
What are you doing to say in
soccer?
I say I say football
actually pretty much.
So I play football
managers.
So it's always
football to me because I've
been playing it since
1990 when you're with
the first vision came out.
So I just call it football.
I don't really say soccer
like my season was to.
But yeah, the team's
based on Wellington,
but they actually play
in the A leg.
The Australian leg
not the KK.
The Wellington Phoenix
must have heard the Wellington
Phoenix.
We mentioned a couple of
times.
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah.
Now where does
Fuzball come from?
Where you need you spin
sticks and run them back
and forth.
You know, it's got to come
from football and how
do they get there?
All right.
What?
You know, do you guys have
those tables where it's got
like, you know,
it's soccer and you put the ball
in the middle and
and Fuzball.
Fuzball.
Fuzball.
Fuzball.
Fuzball.
I said Fuzball.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But we don't, I don't think
we haven't done a name that
like tables that you play
soccer on.
Table soccer on.
It's what you guys don't have
us like look like you guys
call, you know, when we talk
biscuits, you consider
something different.
We have biscuits and we
have donuts and we have all
this shit.
Yeah.
Look, we have biscuits
and frickin shit.
That's a donut.
If donuts, they go
to the bakery with a tongue
you don't get
them.
Yeah, cringotons.
You call it donut, okay.
Yeah, that's, you know,
we need to go,
we need to get upon a
common vocabulary here.
So it's donut biscuits
and biscuits are the one
thing we don't agree on
what they are.
No, wait a minute.
I can go from
donuts to happy new year
without feeling like a
shit heel afterwards.
So for the next minute,
don't, don't anybody,
you know,
oh, shit.
Oh, wait, poke your.
Are you, are, are we on
the west coast, baby?
It looks like it.
You tell me.
No, no, you're calling it on
and I didn't even realize we
have a minute left.
So I guess we're here.
Are we counting down, baby?
It's no.
You're going to go run
outside and watch the fireworks.
No, I got my, well,
I'm not wearing pants.
So I'll do it.
Then work the door on your way
out.
I'm like in my, I'm like in the
door on the way in.
Do you guys know that
next week, we've done a video
called I'm not wearing
pants or something.
She got 20,000
fricking hits on one day.
I'm going.
But that is my five,
four, three,
two, one.
Happy new year.
Happy new year.
I'm not wearing any pants.
Happy new year.
Dr. Susa porn.
Western region of the United
States and several other
folks on the left coast.
No, it's Pokey.
I'm working here and I'm
wearing a kilt.
I will generalize and now say
that all Americans don't
wear pants on New Year's Eve.
Yeah, I keep it.
Call me generalizing
all the time.
I don't wear pants if it's a weekday.
I'm not wearing pants
because you guys got me out of bed.
Uh, uh,
well, I know you're,
you're, you're, you're, you're,
you're, you're, you're, you're,
you're, this, this is the
kilt that's fun.
Yeah, it's, uh, the kilt,
the kilt I want on a Facebook.
Sweet, uh,
is it a tartan for any particular
clan?
No, this is more of a,
like, utility kilt style kilt.
It is a, uh, black kilt
from a company called Pety Kiltz,
which stands for pocket dungeon kiltz.
Oh my god,
we took this seriously.
Holy shit.
Wait, pocket dungeon that makes it
your kiltz sound a little creepy.
Can you explain that a little better?
Um, basically
from what I can tell.
That's a no, by the way.
When you see here, basically, that's a no.
Well, I've only known about this company
for about two months.
So yeah, no, no, this is,
this is going well.
I, yeah, yeah, this is,
this is getting creepy.
Pety Kiltz is very friendly to the kink community.
He needed a master.
Oh my god, I was right.
Look at that guys.
I'm like, oh, no, it's creepy.
No, it's not creepy.
Oh, no, well, look,
it's very friendly toward the BDSM.
Okay, no, okay.
I was crazy.
It is no secret amongst most of the people here
that I'm involved in that community as well.
No, I'm, I'm down with that.
I just want to talk like creepy and kinky
and I'm right there with you.
I don't get how you see it's creepy,
but whatever.
Yeah, it's creepy,
but I'm in there with the creepy factor.
And I enjoy it.
I had been alone with many communities
and now I'm not alone with any for someone.
I don't know.
I'm just being independent.
Yeah, well, first off,
talk from out of kielts if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if,
if there's one, if he's, alright, let's talk about our all.
Yeah, Dr. Sioux's if, if, if this
allowed was here,
he would put the hurt down on you.
And since he's not,
I'm going to come in and represent the
Scotch community.
I'm going to say, you know,
I'm going to put the hurt down on anybody who
who says wearing a kilt is not perfectly natural in the right and the right thing to do.
If I had a kilt, if I had a kilt, I would be wearing it and I would be going regimental.
I respect the shit out of that. That's awesome.
I've got to point out guys that kilt are not strictly a Scottish tradition.
The scouts do have kilt and that's where the tartan tends to come in.
The Irish have kilt as well, but they don't use tartans per se.
If you look into it, there are several different groups that have kilt.
But I wear mini skirts. Where is that falling?
Well, you know, it's not a skirt. I mean the traditional Scottish kilt was more like a toga.
The reason it became skirt-skirt-like, or did I come from, but the reason it became kilt-like is because the English came in
and instead of the scots, at least wear the top half of a uniform.
And that's the only reason it's like a skirt, you know, originally it was like a whole blanket or a toga.
Well, I'm down with the skirt aspect here. I'm just saying like, you know, my problem is when I tend to wear, you know,
a small outfit across the street from park with no underwear.
And somehow the cops freak out on that shit. See, that's wrong. I mean, that's my prerogative.
Can I interrupt the program for one moment? Yes, please.
It is now 804 UTC on stop on the stream.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
