Episode: 1482
Title: HPR1482: 02 What is on my podcast player
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1482/hpr1482.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 03:53:35

---

Hello, this is Ahuka. Welcome to another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio. I'm going
to do the second of my podcasts on what is on my podcast player. Just a little light entertainment
here. Nothing terribly outstandingly. A couple of things I just want to mention here.
First of all, the show notes will have all of the URLs for the RSS feeds for every podcast
that I mentioned. If anything happens to peel to you from this discussion, you'll be
able to just go to the show notes, click on it, and you'll have the feed. You can add it
to your pod catcher of choice. So that's the first thing. Second thing, I do like to mention
I like to speed up my podcast a little bit. So that's something I do in Audacity. I created a script.
Audacity will speed up the podcast without changing the pitch in any way. So I really like that.
So I speed it up 50% and I usually add a few dB of gain onto it as well. I have a fairly
simple primitive player and I kind of like that. So that's how I do it. I'm just reading through.
This is all the stuff that I have on my pod catcher right now to pull these things down.
Some of these are very regular. Others are very irregular. Some of them may even have
popped all together and I just haven't figured it out yet. So with that, let's continue. This is part
two of what's on my podcast layer. The first one I mentioned and we're going through this in
alphabetical order is muggle cast. And if you know anything about Harry Potter, you'll recognize
muggle. So this is a podcast devoted to the Harry Potter related things. It's probably kind
of winding down at this point. But you know, there's occasionally news. I'd have to say the last
couple were about the JK Rowling's newest novel has nothing to do with Harry Potter.
But you know, if there is news, it's a good way to hear about it. Next is the Science Friday
Audio Podcast. If you're outside the United States, possibly you haven't heard about Science
Friday. This is a program that is on national public radio and it airs Friday in the afternoon.
And it's a program devoted entirely to science. And so they have various scientists come on.
They're interviewed about their work and you know, maybe issues of the day. Sometimes they'll have
two or three scientists on debating an issue. I like it. And you know, they took the radio program
and turned it into a downloadable audio podcast, which is great because Friday afternoon when they're
airing it, I'm at work and it's not really proper me to listen. So I download it Friday evening
when I get home and then Saturday I listen to it while having a large cup of coffee before I do my
Saturday morning exercising. So part of my routine. Then there's a podcast called Security Now.
And this is on the Twitch network and this is the one with Steve Gibson and you may know Steve Gibson
from his spin right or shields up among other things that he's done. And this is a very interesting
one because it really digs into the details of security related topics. So you can learn things
like how encryption actually works. And of course, any news that that happens every this is a weekly
podcast. So it's just any security related news. They bring it up. They talk about it.
This one I enjoy a lot. Then there's a space dog podcast. Again, very irregular. They
haven't done anything in a year or more. And I don't know if they ever will again. But this was
there's something called the Science Fiction Oral History Association that has been getting recordings
of various science fiction authors. And so this podcast was basically putting some of those
recordings out. So good listen to Isaac Asimov and Lester Del Rey and people bad. So I hope
something may show up. I will leave something like that in my pod catcher even if I haven't heard
from them in a while because what does it cost me? It just means everyone's once an hour or something
pod catcher just checks in to see if there's anything. Then there's a show called Star Talk Radio
with Neil deGrasse Tyson. Now if you don't know Neil deGrasse Tyson, he is the coolest human being
in the world. He works for the American Museum of National History, Natural History. He's the
director of the Hayden Planetarium. And it's an astrophysicist. So this is a program that is
devoted entirely to really space-related kinds of talks. Then there's Stephen Fry's Pod Grans.
This is another one that I haven't heard from in a while. But Stephen Fry was putting out these
little things. And you know I will listen to Stephen Fry at any opportunity. So this is one I'm
just leaving it in the pod catcher. Maybe it'll come to life. Next is Sunday Morning Linux Review
with Matt Tony and Mary. These guys are friends of mine, but I have to tell you I think this may be
actually the best Linux-related podcast that I listen to because it is just so full of good
intent. It's just solid from beginning to end. So they do the news of the week. They take a look
at what's happening with various distros, what's the latest news on the kernel. Mary does each week
a review of a particular distro. And you know she'll create a virtual machine, load it up,
fires, put it through its paces, and tell you what she found. So there's just so much good stuff
on it. If you're only going to have one Linux podcast to me, this is the one. Then one called
Talk BMC. This is related to my work, you know IT service management. So you know this is a is
put out by the vendor, the product that I'm in the middle of doing a big upgrade project on.
And I will probably be working on this for some time because once we get this initial upgrade
out of the way, there's going to be future phases and additional things done. What have you?
So it's specialized. If you're not into IT service management, you probably wouldn't be
interested in that one. But the next one is the bugle, which is about half an hour pure bullshit
once a week. John Oliver and he's Altsman and you know a couple of comedians that just get on
there and they take the news of the day and skewer everyone. So it's a lot of fun. Then there's
one called the command line. And I just want to make sure that if you haven't encountered this one,
it is not a podcast about opening up a terminal and issuing commands. It's the command line is
sort of the nickname that the guy who does this. So it usually has a lot to do with a consort software,
the fellow who did this converted over almost entirely to Linux. And he's also active in
technology advocacy and free culture. He's a friend of Cory Doctoro, etc. So I just I find it
interesting. He's a fun guy and he usually has something interesting today. Then the infinite
monkey cage. And this one is a BBC production. And it has a scientist Brian Cox, a comedian,
and you know they they will put out about five or six shows and then go dormant for a few months
and then decide it. It's time to put out another five or six shows. So and they're usually interesting.
Then there's the Linux action show. Now this one I have subscribed and then unsubscribed and
then subscribed again. So you know there's I am subscribed. There's some interesting stuff going
on there. And then there's the Linux link tech show, which is one of the older Linux related
podcasts. This is the podcast that Dan Washco does. And Dan is the fellow who does that absolutely
wonderful Linux in the Shell series. And boy if you're not paying attention to that Linux in
the Shell you're missing something really special. So this is this is his podcast. He and several
other people. Then I'm subscribed to one called the project management podcast. I'm a project
manager by trade. So again this is kind of work related about topics about project management.
So you're interested in that a lot of interviews with project managers talking about different
topics. Then there's the techie geek podcast. That's Russ winner and Tracy Holtz. And you know
they're both good people. And I enjoy listening to their podcast. That scene is more like every
other week though. A little bit irregular. Then there's this week in Google which is from the
Twit network. And that's Leo Laporte, Jeff Jarvis, Gina Treppani, and then frequently a guest
of some kind. It's not just Google. It's everything about the online world, the cloud, whatever you
want to call it. So they don't just talk about Google. But they do talk somewhat about Google
for at least part of three week. Then there's one called this week in science. And that's with Dr.
Kiki Sanford and Justin. So I've just a one hour week devoted to discussion of what's the news
in the world of science. So basically just a weekly science news update. And then there's this
week in tech which is the original Twit network program. So it's basically some pundits
getting together to talk about what the news of the week is. And you know it's usually interesting.
So I'll listen to that. And then another one from the Twit network called Triangulation. And
that's an interview with one person. So they will bring in one person and say, okay, let's have
a talk. Let's find out what's going on. And it's usually some interesting people. So for instance,
this current show that just came out was interviewing the fellow who created the Geek Squad,
which was then bought by Best Buy. And so it's interesting. Interesting things to say about that
experience. Then there is the TuX radar Linux podcast. Now this is put out by the people who
publish the Linux format magazine, which is published in England, but available here in the United
States because I subscribe to it. And so they do it interesting little. This is biweekly. So every
other week you get a podcast from them talking about what's going on in the world of Linux.
And then there's the Ubuntu UK podcast. And that has Alan Pope,
only with more Laura Cowan and Bayesianly other people. And it's mostly Ubuntu oriented.
But they sometimes talk about general Linux topics as well. And this is also a biweekly. So
every other week you get a podcast. And it's usually about an hour or so in length.
And then the last one on my alphabetical list is our reason, Z-A-A-R-E-A-S-O-N, which you may know
as a company that makes hardware that is sold with Linux and free software on it. They're
real good people there. And they do this podcast. And it's pretty irregular. But from time to time
they'll decide to put something out. And so they know what they're doing. So this was the rest of it.
So it ended up being two programs for me to go through everything on my podcast player.
So again, if you any of these are of interest to you, just take a look at the show notes.
And I've got all of the RSS feeds or linked there. So you can just cron it and take a look.
So I hope you maybe you find something interesting in all of that. And this is Huka signing off.
You have been listening to HackerPublic Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our
shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself. If you ever consider recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. HackerPublic Radio was founded by
the Digital Dark Pound and the Elfonomicum Computer Club. HPR is funded by the binary revolution
at binref.com. All binref projects are crowd- Exponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released on the creative commons,
attribution, share a like, lead us our license.
