Episode: 1326
Title: HPR1326: What's in my bag
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1326/hpr1326.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 23:35:38

---

music
Hello, HBR listeners. I'm Jay Robb and this is my second solo episode. I'll do one
of these. What's in my bag type deals? My bag is a Swiss gear backpack. So I guess it starts
the largest area compartment and go from the back to the front or from the front to the
back depending on how you look at that. So the so in the largest compartment I've
got my laptop that I use for work. It is a Lenovo X1 carbon. It runs Windows 64
bit. That's what we use at work. Sometimes I'll swap that out for my Linux laptop that's
an X220 Lenovo which is pretty awesome for the laptop. That's a 12.5 inch screen. I believe
it's matte but the X1 is pretty nice as well. It's missing some little ports and that's kind
of annoying but it's thin and light and has a little bit bigger screen. I think it's 14 or 14
half inches. So right now I've got the X1 in here. So I've also got a national brand
computation notebook. It's a pretty nice type notebook with a bunch of grid lines, things
easy to take notes and new technical drawings. That's what I think. So this large compartment
here has got a separator inside of the pocket there. There's the laptop and the outer
region is the notebook and also there's a laptop charger. That's for whichever laptop
I have at the time. Unfortunately they take two different types of charging ports. So
there's also a small zippered mesh pocket. So inside of here I've got the USB stick which
is a 32 gig USB 3.8 data. I think it's just a cheap one to go with Amazon. Then I've got
another 32 gig that's got another 32 gig that's a little older because I think it's
a patriot and I also have my VPN dongle for work. That's everything I have in that pocket.
Then there's a small pocket on top. Inside of here I've got some headphones, the Bud style
that came with my Samsung Galaxy S3 phone. Keepers there for easy access. All of it's in
there. I may actually find something in here that's forgot it. Next pocket is another
large-ish tight pocket. Inside of here I've got a small case. It has a small hard case.
As a Western Digital, my passport went air by USB 3 drive. So I can put the ton of
stuff on there. Any files I need. I deal with a lot of data usually with my job. So whenever
I have a ton of data I can just slap it on this drive. Take it with me. That way I don't
fill up my small drive on my laptop. I think it's 56 gig now. It was 128. I had a coffee
spill a while back which totally fried the thing. Unfortunately it was only two weeks old or
so. But they repaired it and I wrote a note on the form. Something like a grade to a 256 gig
if you can. They went ahead and did that and didn't charge me anything for it which was
awesome. There's a zipper pocket here also that I usually keep some pictures of my family
and what gets one traveling. There's another pocket. It gets slightly smaller as we go now.
There's some, it's like a pack of travel tissues that we're knowing you're traveling around
things. So the next pocket is a little bit smaller than that one. Inside of here I've got
a lot of stuff. So I've got a small larger take travel mouse. I think it's one of the
MX styles. It comes with a small USB dongle that gives the computer a pretty awesome
little mouse. It's the small notebook size. So it doesn't take a whole lot of space. Let's
see. I've also got a, there's some kind of a small notebook. Let's say there's a small
other bound notebook maybe five inches tall by three, three and a half inches wide. Not
very thick. Maybe half an inch thick. So rule, normal rule. So inside of here I've got
some, just a bunch of notes. We're whatever I'm working on. I try to keep track because
I have a horrible memory. I can remember a lot of things but there's usually so many things
going on. I have to take notes. So I've got that in a, what's this? Sharpie, fine point
pen. Kind of hooked on to this. So I've got that. If I really need to take any notes
of anything. Let's see. Then there's a bunch of small pockets in here. And inside of
some of those small pockets I've got, business cards, a bit of few pins, a couple of different
types of pins and a pencil. There's a pocket there. And there's another, I'm trying to
close up a pocket. Nothing in there. All right. So then there's one more pocket. It
is a small outer pocket inside of here. I've got some pseudofed, some exedron migraine medicine,
prescription vichydin. And that's all that's in here. You should have some, I'll be
propping in there too. And usually the vichydin is not in there but I have a tour muscle
not too long ago. So that's what that was for. So that's basically everything I have in
my backpack back here. Sometimes when I go traveling I'll swap out a few things or include
a screwdriver. I'm kind of surprised I don't have a screwdriver in there. Usually I have
a small one. And then I've got a small stubby multi screwdriver that I carry with me. So
it's got a few different things. Philips head, flat head, small and large of each. And then
put it pretty small. It's maybe two and a half inches long with a swivel end. I'll
contain a small unit. It's pretty awesome. Use a lot, especially when I'm traveling
in the other labs and things. Or I've got a company that makes RF modules. And so we
have labs where you test all this kind of stuff. And a lot of that is a lot of stuff to use
a screwdriver home. And then hard drives and computers and whatever else. It's almost handy
to have a screwdriver. Usually also in my bag I'll keep some lubricant eye drops. My eyes
kind of get drizzled on. So I've got a, I had laser surgery a few years back to create
my horrible near-sighted vision. And now I can see pretty good. But the downside of that
my eyes get drizzled on. Also when I'm traveling I'll carry a few other things like a cell phone
charger. Obviously usually I'll throw them a Nexus 7 there. So I can have it with some
running around. Probably a few extra pairs of headphones. If I'm flying, definitely
I'll take some noise canceling headphones. I've got some audio, technical, something
or other. Not too high end. Pretty decent. I'll take those with me. Those flying sucks.
Also when I'm traveling I throw an Ethernet cable or two in there. And as well as I'm
kind of surprised I don't have it in there right now. Usually I'll have a DVI cable and
my converter. My X1 carbon laptop has a mini display port output. So that's kind of limiting.
So I'll carry a Dungle with me that I got from Monoprice. We'll convert a mini display
port and it has HDMI, VGA and DVI on the same Dungle. So I can output to whatever project
a word display wherever I am. That's pretty handy. I'm going to find that. Don't want
it. It's not my bag. All right. Well that is everything that I have in my bag.
You have been listening to HackerPublic Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like
all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself. If you ever consider recording
a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. HackerPublic Radio
was founded by the Digital Dog Found and the Infonomicum Computer Club. HPR is funded
by the Binary Revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are proudly sponsored by
Lina Pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinaPages.com for all
your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative
commons, attribution, share a life, lead us our lives.
