Episode: 1078
Title: HPR1078: A podcast about software patents/unitary patent
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1078/hpr1078.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 18:32:45

---

Hello everybody, my name is Emanuele Chappontier, I am from the French Organization
April which is a non-profit. We are calling on you today because software patterns
are coming back. Software patterns are dangerous, dangerous to free software and to small companies
because they are blocking ideas and they will make sure that big companies will block
your small one from reaching the market. They will make sure that your ideas and we have
plenty of them in the software world that ideas are blocked from implementation. You
will not be able to introduce a one-click shopping, for example. Those software patterns
are coming back through the Unitary Pattern. It's a new rule which is being implemented
right now in Europe and which will give to the European Pattern Office much, much more
power. Despite its name, the European Pattern Office is not a European institution, it's
an international institution and it will be given more power by the European institutions
to rule over the pattern system. Right now, the European Pattern Office is already recording
software patterns. This, despite European rules, is explicitly forbidding it. We need you
to contact the Legal Affairs Committee which has a small group of 20 MEPs which are right
now studying the European Pattern System. April wants amendments which will ensure that
European institutions keep power, keep an eye on the European Pattern Office. Those amendments
are important. We need you to contact those 20 people. You will find more information,
analysis on tools on the Unitary Dash Pattern.edu website. Contact them now, email them, phone them
to make sure that software patterns are definitely forbidden and we will not come back.
We have been listening to HEPA Public Radio at HEPA Public Radio. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show,
like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener by yourself. If you ever consider
recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. HEPA Public
Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicum Computer Club. HPR is
funded by the Binary Revolution at binwreff.com. All binwreff projects are crowd-responsive
by lunar pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for
all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative
commons, a tribute show, share a like, lead us our license.
