Episode: 1479
Title: HPR1479: 01 What is on my podcast player
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1479/hpr1479.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 03:51:12

---

Hello, this is Ahuka. Welcome to another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio and I'm
real happy to be with you today. We're going to do something a little bit different.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to talk about the podcasts that I like to listen to
and there's rather a lot of them so it might be more than one episode as I go through this.
But I just thought I'd tell you what's on my podcast layer and maybe I'll introduce you
to something you didn't know about or if it's something you already decided you don't
like buying, just skip over it. So I'm going to do this in alphabetical order so I'm going
to talk about first of all, all about Android. This is a program that is put out by the
Twitch network and, you know, as you might guess from the name, this is a show that's all
about Android. So you want to keep up on what's happening in the world of Android tablets,
Android telephones, things like that. And they introduce apps, they talk about the latest
news, what have you. So, you know, that's one that if you're in the Android ecosystem like
I am, it's not a bad thing for you to fail a little bit of attention to.
The next one I'm going to mention is something called Dan Carlin's Hardcore History. Now,
Dan is an interesting guy and what he does, he puts out these programs that some of them
are actually rather long and a detailed look at some aspect history. He did a whole long
series about the fall of the Roman Republic. He's into I think four episodes now about
the Mongols, called The Wrath of the Cons. And I just, I have a degree in history, I love
history though, this is something that I do particularly enjoy. So, if you're a history
buff, that's something you might want to take a look at. Now, the next thing I happen
to be a big Doctor Who fan and I know I'm not the only one, I've heard some other people
on Hacker Public Radio talk about that. So, the first one I'm going to mention is the
DWO Who Cast. DWO stands for Doctor Who Online and they've been around for a while and they
put out this Who Cast talking about what's going on in the world of Doctor Who. And then
there's the Doctor Who Pod Shock. This is put out by a group called the Gallifreyan Embassy.
It's a couple of guys in New York, a guy in England and correspondence from around the world and
they're talking about different things that are going on in the world of Doctor Who. All of these
Doctor Who programs, you can expect them that they will probably be talking about the programs
as they air. So, if oilers are an issue for you, be warned about that. I've got another Doctor
Who one called Radio Free Scarrow and this is a couple of guys from Canada and so they like to
talk out Doctor Who as well and then finally there's Doctor Who The Commentaries and that
that actually comes from the BBC and it's kind of an irregular thing but you know,
time to time they put out these commentaries and I haven't seen one in a while but now it's
something you might want to check out. Next there is a podcast that I listen to called Droid Nation
and again as the name might imply we're talking about things in the Android ecosystem here.
Now, I have an Android phone. I will probably get an Android tablet one of these days. I've
been looking at some very nice ones. So that's something that I like up on. Then there is a
Floss Weekly and Floss Free Libre open source software. This is another program from the
Twit Network and their focus is on open source. It's kind of interesting to me because they don't
necessarily talk about things like Firefox and Linux but they talk about a lot of open source
projects that you might not have heard of though some of the more obscure to some degree.
That's not to say that they never talk about anything else but it is interesting to hear.
For me to hear about all sorts of projects that I might not otherwise have even been aware of.
So Floss Weekly is one of the ones I listen to. The Randall Schwartz is the main host but the Dan Lynch
who you may know from Linux Outlaws and Hog Camp is a frequent co-host. Simon Fipps
is a frequent co-host as is Aaron Nukem and so you know there's some pretty good people there
and I love when Simon Fipps in particular when he's on the show tends to bear down on what's
the licensing like and how free is it really and that sort of thing. Those are questions that do
need to be asked. Next full circle magazine. Now this is both an online electronic print publication
and I say electronic print. Well I guess I just did and a podcast so there's two different
birds of this. What I'm calling print is actually it's a PDF or they also have ePubs but the
PDF has worked best for me and that comes out once a month. I have written for them and I will
probably continue writing for them which is a sure sign of quality right there don't you think.
But in addition they do a recorded podcast a little more irregular than the print version
so you know when it comes out is always something of a mystery but I think that that's
something that you might be interested in it. There usually is Linux discussion going on there.
Next I want to mention a podcast called Geeks Guide to the Galaxy and that has a couple of co-hosts
David Barcurtley and John Joseph Adams both of whom are published science and authors,
editors, what have you and what they do and this is a weekly podcast is they will
have an interview with someone active in the field so they've had you know a lot of really good
people that they've been able to interview and you know that's usually the first half of the
podcast is the interview generally done as like a telephone call but the sound quality on it is
that in pretty good I think and then they have a discussion that is usually related somewhat
now occasionally I would say loosely related but related to in some way the things that they
were talking about and that discussion they might bring on someone else to get into that discussion.
So you know if you're a science fiction fan you know or fantasy or horror all of which
have received attention lately that's something you might want to take a look at.
Next another Linux one going Linux Larry Bushy is the host of this one and
well this is generally you know it's not the most advanced and that's fine I mean it doesn't
tend to be this is one of those ones that is aimed at helping people get going with Linux but I
like to listen in and see what's going on so that's one of the ones on my podcast player.
Next is hacker public radio. I'm gonna assume if you're listening to this you already know what
hacker public radio is all about and that being the case you know I shouldn't have to tell you
a whole lot about that other than if you are currently subribed to the MP3 feed they would really
like you to switch over to the augfeed you know it's not that hard to do. Next one
ITSM weekly now this one is really related more to my job than anything and I work in the IT
department for the state of Michigan and you know we are IDSM is what it's all about all right that's
in for IT service management and so I find this an interesting bit of a professional
education that I can get into and so I do enjoy that particular podcast. Then nightcast and
this discusses Linux discusses other things okay nightwise is the host of this one
and it's more of a general technology podcast rather than a specifically Linux podcast
so you know you can't affect that it's always going to be Linux there might be discussion about
oh you know Windows or Macintosh or what have you but you know I recently heard
one of nightcast interview with Alan Pope talking about what's going on with canonical
interview with Lord Rackenblut talking about virtualization so there's some pretty interesting
stuff going on there. Then I want to mention a couple of podcasts that are I think both aimed
again not necessarily at the very highest level but they're both Linux related and they're both
put out by Dore to Dore Geek who did a very well-received podcast episode of Hacker Public Radio
recently as I record this with you know who knows when this will out but anyway the first one is
called Linux Basics and the second one is Linux for the rest of us though they're two excellent
podcasts and you know Dore is very knowledgeable which is great but the other thing is he's just a
really wonderful person he likes being helpful to people I found that out firsthand at Ohio
Linux Fest and I was having a little bit of trouble synchronizing photos from my Android phone
to Google in the cloud and he said oh yeah sometimes it helps if you if you do it can it basically
he said it up that I was connecting through his phone and uploading the photos and you know we
stood outside for you know 25 minutes while this was going on that's just the kind of guy he is
he's real helpful and so I'd recommend that was Linux Basics and Linux for the rest of us
then let's take a look at Linux outlaws okay Dan Lynch and Fabian Churchill I think something
like that probably mispronouncing it so this is one of the the venerable Linux podcast it's been
around for a while and you know they they do a lot of interesting things on that so it's probably
one that a lot of people are familiar with that's another one that's on my podcast player and I'm
going to wrap up this with a mention of something called Lococast which is highly irregular it's
put up by a couple of friends of mine who are members of the Ubuntu local community or Locoh
here in Michigan in the United States of America and you know I haven't seen one from them in a few
months but I haven't officially been told that they've stopped doing it either so you know I just
loved it in my pod catcher and if if something comes out great so that's the the style I think I
can get one more episode to wrap this up but I don't want to run too long so just a couple of
things first of all all of the podcast that I've mentioned links to the RSS feed are in the show notes
so if you heard of something that oh that sounds interesting I want to check it out just take a
look at the show notes that should take you right to the RSS feed for the program so it'd be
very easy for you to write the other thing I just want to mention in passing and there may be
more than one way to skin this particular cat but as you may guess from the fact that I've only
covered about half of the stuff that's on my podcast player and I've already mentioned quite a few
I know it's about 18 that I've already mentioned you know there's only so many hours in the day
in order to keep up with everything one of the things I do is I want to speed things up
now if if you're doing this with a podcast client on a phone or a more advanced MP3 player that
does all of that for you great I actually use and prefer actually a very very simple straightforward
player for everything so what I do is I have Audacity and I've created a script you know
Audacity that takes every file and does a couple of things the first is it changes the tempo it
speeds it up about percent and then boosts the volume a little bit because my little MP3 player
the gain is not really huge on all of this so I have that script set up and I run all of the
files that I download all of the podcast episodes that I download I run it through that
and so that's how I do it so just just some ideas and I think that's enough for now
this is a hookah signing off and I want to tell you don't forget to support free software bye
you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does our we are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our
shows was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself if you ever consider recording a podcast
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is Hacker Public Radio was founded by
the digital dark pound and the economic and computer cloud HPR is funded by the binary revolution
at binrev.com all binrev projects are proudly sponsored by lunar pages from shared hosting to
custom private clouds go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs unless otherwise stasis
today's show is released under a creative commons attribution share a like three does our license
