Episode: 1196
Title: HPR1196: HPR Community News Feb 2013
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1196/hpr1196.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 21:32:53

---

Hello everybody, my name is Ken Pallam and you're listening to Hacker Public Radio
Community News. This gives us a monthly look at what's been going on in the HPR community
or at least a little bit of what I get to see. Today I'm joined by starting from the top,
Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker
Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker
Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker
Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker
Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker
Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave,
say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi, Hacker Public Dave, say hi,
Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey hey hey, hey, hey hey hey hey hey hey hey, hey hey hey hey hey hey, hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey go on with the
database to open street maps. So it's, the coverage is pretty good, but you can still go
in and, you know, just do things like turn things into a bicycle pack that are a straight
through road and stuff like that. So that is exactly what I want, what I wanted to be able
to do.
It's really great. No, I, I've only gotten a couple of feedbacks on it. I heard from you,
I heard from Dave and from 50 150 and I heard from one guy who's outside of our community.
He had contacted me separately on the, through open street maps. I didn't even know
but they have their own little messaging system and he contacted me about something else
completely different. And I sent him a link and just asked, hey, is this going to help?
And he wrote back and he said, yes. And he said, but really what we could use right now
are street numbers. If you can, you know, label houses with street numbers and I'm looking
at it and I'm going, man, you live in a different neighborhood than I do because we don't
even have buildings in our, you got to label the building. So like, we don't have the
streets right here yet. I said, let me see what you've done. And he sent me a link to
like a college campus that, I mean, you could see the little break areas in the middle of
the buildings. You know, when they make a circular shaped building with a, you know, grass
and trees in the middle, you could see all that. So like, he's, I'm like, yeah, maybe
where you're at, but we're at, we still need the streets completed.
So like some places in the, in Germany, they have like the benches marked with the names
of the people who donated the benches. Which is excellent. I mean, honestly, can you
think of a better way to, you know, to contribute to honoring someone? And you know what I mean?
Like, yeah, no, I'm convinced. I'm, I'm 100% convinced. It makes me want to donate
the benches somewhere. Yeah, actually, if I may interject, if I'm correct, the company
which did the donation of the Dutch map was A and B and from the looks of their website,
they seem to be quite still in business. So can I just want to say that that was, I
thought the open street map, I guess, Hey, Poké also was really a great episode. And
I looked into also this other open source program called GPS Bable. It's for converting routes
into tracks and some other things and way points into tracks. And that's another whole area
that can be got into that can be helpful and useful in open street map for getting the world
map. And we look forward to your show in the upcoming period. Oh, it actually, thank you
for saying that Dave, because I don't know if I mentioned it or not. But if you, if you
do want to do some tracking, like if you got an area that doesn't show up and satellite imagery,
and you want to do some tracking, there's a really, really good Android app. And I don't know if I
mentioned it or not in the, in the episode, but OSM tracker is available in the Android market,
as well as the eftroid market. So like you don't even have to use proprietary, you know, Android
market. If you want it, you can, you can get it right out of the eftroid market. And it is,
it is fantastic. It lets you record your track. It lets you view a map of where you've been,
so you can, like out in the woods, it's really handy. You can find your way back to the car.
Just by, you know, and by knowing where you're at, you need that in the compass and you're,
you're all set. And it also lets you take notes along the way and make way points. And it's
really, really good. Oh, and it will also upload, it'll convert the track into a GPX file,
so you can save it separately. And it will, and it will upload the track to OpenStreetMap for you,
so that, like I do that before I even get home, all my, all my hikes are already plotted on,
on OpenStreetMap.org. Okay, let's move on, if we may.
Yeah, sorry. No, not so. Episode 1178 and CT, again, putting me to shame by releasing interviews
that are from a conference. And this was Craig Inton and Rico about PiPi,
were you, do any of you use Python and PiPi in particular?
I don't run it, like specifically, and I don't write, you know, programs for Python, but
I've had a look at a couple of things in Python, and I've been able to do some stuff with it.
The program I found had some really well-documented code, and I was able to, you know,
figure out what else was to do with that, just by reading the comments, but I followed the Python
news on the PiPi news, and it's been around for a while, and it just seems to be getting better and
better. And I thought it was a great interview, it was really fun to listen to. Yeah, and I don't
write any Python code right now either, but I've been wanting to learn more of it as a way
is getting back into coding. And also, I've been trying to nudge the school I work for into
interest in the Raspberry Pi, to see if they might want to play with that in the Science Department.
And I'm feeling if I nudge them into that, I'm going to want to have sort of a leg up on Python,
because they're going to turn around looking at me and say, okay, how do we work this? And
I don't want to have to say, well, there's the curriculum or the manual or whatever read that.
The other easy solution to that 50150 is teaching how to use IRC first.
There's a few of those channels, I don't think I want to turn loose on, certainly not in the
program. No, I know, I was kidding completely. Okay, the following day was another interview,
and this time it was Mark A. Davis, all T-W-U-U-G, which was supposed to be released a week earlier,
and the epic fail that I am, forgot to release it. So apologies to Mark and Frank for
completely missing that, but this was a very interesting, it's kind of like how I got into Linux
type talk here on HPR, so I really enjoy that show. In the next day, we had Toki to
mean newscast from the Toki to mean news team, and just an announcement that DeepGeek has,
personal life has come up and smacked him across the face, so he'll be taking a
a slice vacation from HPR for a while, so we expect him back, and all our thoughts and prayers
if they're alive are with him from us. Yeah, I got that to, as you'd imagine, and I just,
I've tried a couple times to sit down and try to put together some news stories, just to keep
it at least on life support till he gets back, and I'm just, I'm so far behind in everything I'm
doing right now, I just can't pull it together, so I apologize that I'm not able to fill in issues
while it's gone, but it's on that list of things I wish I could get done.
Yeah, I don't know if people realize how much work is involved in helping that show together,
it's an amazing body of work, and it's been backbone for HPR for quite a while that we could
rely on last four shows a month from DeepGeek. Yeah, definitely, and I was trying to give other
people a chance to talk, because I didn't talk too much, but I did want to say that the
TW UUG group show was really fantastic, I enjoyed the heck out of that one as well, it was just,
it was a great story, and it was a great sort of trail of breadcrumbs for someone to follow,
you know, for their own similar endeavors, it was really good. I must say I never get tired of those,
how you how you came from there to hear stories. Okay, the following day we had Delwin,
the John Wayne of HPR, although fake Dave sounded very much like John Wayne, here you go,
but all of you Americans sound the same to me anyways, with Montbaldio issues. We all look the same,
too, if you do, we're in the same room. Yeah, yeah, really? Oh yeah, you can't even tell us apart me.
Anyway, this was another one in the, oh my god, I'm embarrassed, I used Montbald because I had no
clue that this amount of settings was possible, but it definitely helped me with getting some of my
settings sorted out here in Montbald, so that will be added to the list of go-to troubleshooting
issues for Montbald. This is one that, if those little credit card-sized CDs were still,
you know, readily available, I'd burn this episode to those and just hand them out to people,
that it was that useful. Yeah, exactly. I like to probably add a forward one to every podcast
that uses Montbald now might help some people. Yeah, exactly, we have the link to his original
one on the main page, which, so I need to put a link to this one in as well. It's my to-do list as well,
just right after editing OpenStreamer. Well, speaking of editing the page around, can I have
nothing but good things to say about the changes that you guys have all made on the back end to
the website? As of, by the way, I mean, how quickly it loads now when you expand it to show all
the shows on one page and just it's so much faster and easier to use and the slight visual tweaks
have made. It was hard to find them. I couldn't point out what was different. It just was better,
but it's really tremendous. Sorry for rattling it again. Yeah, not at all. There have been some
changes. Yeah, well, let's chat about that. I suppose we could do it later on if you want to do it now.
No, let's do that later. I didn't mean to sidetrack us the folks who put in shows, which
we should give them their due first. Absolutely. And speaking of the people we had Dan
Sexy-8 on Dan Sexy-8. No, Dan Sexy-Washka. But Davyates could do it coming back on a
given us the show, by the way. That would be nice catch-up episode from Dave. He was given us
the date command and I was thrilled to see that he put options in to get UTC and also, of course,
options in to get the only time format and that is ISO, which I can't remember now because
my brain has just shut down for the evening. Just for the record, can I think that
date is not a social media site to get a date, is it? No, it is not. And if you go to xkcd.com
forward slash 1179, you'll see what I'm on about. It's ISO 8601. Link will be in the show notes.
I'm guessing that means year of month day, hour of minute, second. Absolutely.
You know, funny thing is, I thought I invented that because I had never seen anybody do it that way
before and it's obviously the right way to do it if you're trying to sort anything. Yeah,
obviously, but obvious, it's not obvious to everybody. I think there was a very interesting
foster, I think, show about log file times and just across the various different applications.
Apache has its own email, has its own, but I mean, it's my personal piece. Anyway, getting back to
the shows, we had done with days and then the following day, we had the Boise log meeting,
which was Darin gave us a talk on gaming, focused on baboon for doom, which was...
Holy smokes, can you pronounce that like a local?
Well, thank you. It was very interesting, but the audio was really quiet, so I had to listen to it
at home instead of in the car, which I usually do. I put up the volume at maximum and it had no
effect. Yes, that would be, again, my fault TM. And I'd like to throw in that for those folks
who haven't been listening to HPR for more than a couple years, that used to be sort of a regular
contribution from two or three logs that there's several of the old episodes that are just a
recording of a log meeting, and I think a lot of those topics would be of interest to
all of us to hear. I mean, if you're in a log and somebody's doing a presentation and nobody
minds being recorded and explained to them what HPR is, I'm sure they know what a podcast is,
and that's a great way to generate material.
Absolutely, and so long as they, of course, want to release it under the Creative Commons
by a say, license. Would you have a point? And if you are doing that, and you want to record some
log shows, I mean, if the topic's going to be quite interesting, then get in touch with us on
the augcastplanet on 3.0.net, and we will give you some tips on how best to record it, and
so that you don't have the difficulty in hearing. But in that show, I could have done more to
edit the levels better. And the next day was one of my favorite shows from the month, and that was
installing Linux without a monitor. And Poki, I think you just, Poki, you really hit the nail
on the head here on this one to describe what Jonathan has done. If you just turn off, if you put
this podcast on pause, you will, for 15 minutes, you will hear what it would be like for somebody
who doesn't have access to Sonar or one of the accessible distributions, because they just
simply cannot use a computer without having somebody there to help them. And can you imagine
what life would be like not being able to use a computer, whatever about being in a computer
as an assistive technology to make life better for you. You simply not being able to use a computer
in this day and age is laughable. You laugh at somebody if they're, I saw a cartoon the other day
going saying, wake up, it's not the age, there's no excuse for not using a computer. For saying
you can't use a computer, well, you know, this is a pretty good excuse if you can't, if your
computer is an accessibility to be able to use it. So I was fascinated by this interview and
thanks to Tratu for doing the intro and that as well. Yeah, absolutely. And I think, I don't know
if I had it, so finally narrowed down in my head when I did it, but I think what really bothers me
about it is not the fact that there's a whole bunch of people who can't use computers because
I mean, there are days where I wish I couldn't, you know, but the thing that bothers me is that,
you know, while it's necessary that you kind of have to use a computer these days, the point
that bothers me is nobody cares that there's a bunch of people who can't use computers. That's the part
that really gets you. Yes. I'd like to nominate Pokey for some sort of a medal for taking this on
and I really enjoyed the show and it really gave in-depth look at what Sonar is doing and I'm
sure to be much improved in the future, but that was just one of the highlights for me for my
listening mindfulness. Aaron Pokey and John can go through this. Well, I think got, sorry, go ahead.
I'm sorry. I think Pokey, you guys really hit the nail on the head that the whole crux of
the problem is that this accessibility should be built in at the developer tools level so that
all you have to do is flip a switch and then a menu is read to you or as you go through the
selections. One of the things that struck me was when you guys were on the desktop and sort of
waving the mouse around to find icons and that, that seems like one, something that was built
for visual people that really, really doesn't translate well at all because you're sort of out
there hunting in the wilderness to find what you're looking for and some sort of more ordered
interface to replace it would be far preferable, I would guess. I mean, sorry, Pokey, go on.
No, not like this. I've been thinking about this. A lot of the upcoming episodes have
have a prefix from me where I'm talking about what how well the project is doing and I would like
to thank everybody really sincerely who have contributed to the Sonar project and I would also like
to thank you, thank people who contributed to the ACF and it has been a bit of an eye-opener to me
as I, you know, publicized this. People's reaction to contributing to a project that will help
accessibility. How do you mean what's been the reaction to that? Well, there's been, I assumed,
and maybe it's because my wife works with people with disabilities and that I've kind of been
exposed to it or I don't know, but the apathy to it has been, has been one thing and the hostility
from, from certain people who I was kind of shocked about and I'm not talking about, I'm not
talking about my discussion with anybody on Twitter because those are, those have been constructive,
with WebMink having a constructive conversation about where best, where best to put the money in
the effort. So I don't think he was in any way that conversation in any way is not what I'm referring
to, referring to private conversations I've had with different people, you know, in order to kind
of ask them, can you maybe promote the project a bit and just the apathy, no reply and complete silence
I got from quite a lot of people who was a bit of an eye-opener to me. Yeah, I was kind of blown
away by the hostility that you guys got from me behind people. Well, I think Jonathan probably
will be able to tell us more about that and I don't know how constructive it is, but I'll tell
you folks it's going to be an uphill battle for him and, you know, other people who are doing this.
Now, I will accept that, you know, this is the solar project, it's a distribution, but I always
assumed that the work was for the ACF and not necessarily the solar project, because on the end
you go, go, you need to be doing something actually. But the whole point of upstream to me is,
well, you fix something and it goes upstream and then it comes downstream to everybody, you know,
regardless of what you're, regardless of somebody has another distribution of whether,
you know, whether you're Ubuntu or whether you're Debian or whatever if it's fixed upstream,
everybody gets it. So, all the better for that. But so those are conversations that yes,
that's fine to have both. Yeah, I mean guys, it's kind of like I always assumed that people will
want to put in accessibility into every single product for everybody. The fact that it's there
shouldn't be an issue. The fact that you don't use it, it shouldn't be an issue. It should
at least be an option for everybody to have it. Can I agree with you? And the, I think that for myself,
when I saw this project was up on Indiegogo and I haven't really contributed to Indiegogo projects
before, but I like to contribute to something where I know someone is doing something honestly.
A lot of times you see people asking for money, say even on a street or coming to your house,
you don't know that there's honestly something going on that is worth supporting. And in this case,
I think that Jonathan's efforts because he's giving up stream and because he has actually blind
himself and he can do something that's really useful, but this was a good project. And I actually
thought I would just have to donate one time. So I donated enough to get a sticker plus a little bit
and ended up donating two more times because we just didn't seem to get the
people donating that I thought we would. I probably would be way over the goal. And I'm a little
surprised at that myself. And so I, but I really do support Jonathan in his efforts. And it's a
pioneer project. So it might be that it takes somebody working an obscurity for a bit in order to
get this going and to make it work. That's, I mean, you just think about it. Guys, I see
I've been exposed to people who, you know, I just can't do my wife's work. I really couldn't
emotionally. I just, you know, she's gone into classes where, you know, there's beautiful little
girls who, you know, are now the same age as, you know, then will be the same age as my daughter is
now. And, you know, she's got two years to live. And, you know, the joy that she's bringing
to the world and the joy that these people bring to the world, or you go down to the deaf community.
And it's, you expect, you know, to go into a deaf organization, you first time you expect to be
the quietest place ever. And it's loud. And there's kids screaming. And everybody's acting like
they hear nothing, which of course they don't because they hear nothing. So it's like, it's just
a shock. And on the other day, I was in like a deaf school and I was just so embarrassed. I couldn't
talk to these people. I think Klaatu mentioned that in his, in his round. But I know deaf people can
read on the screen, but can we not, can we not enable them and help them to, you know, get a
Raspberry Pi and connect it up to a, you know, text to enable their house with X 11 sensors to turn
on the light when the phone rings and all these pieces of kit that are extremely expensive to use.
You know, that's just enabling technology that right there. All we ask, all we ask is that, you know,
they get enough of a, we bootstrap them enough that they can take it from there. You know what I mean?
Sorry, going off and around. No, no, you're, you're right on the money here. I mean, after that,
recently just last week, a buddy of mine called me and he, and I've talked about him before in
this computer, but he, he had asked me to buy a computer at one point for him and again, for his wife
and set them up with, you know, some Linux distribution on there. And since doing that, she has
had to have a brain surgery and she can't really use her right hand all that well. And she would
have boils down to now is means she can't use the laptop the way that it is because her left hand
kind of drags across the touchpad and moves the mouse all over the screen every time she tries to
reach to type. So like, I can't even figure out how to disable the touchpad. I'm sure I could. I,
I'm not close enough to him that I can look at the computer, but I'm, you know, to me, that was like
a perfect place to put an on-screen keyboard or maybe to set up the eye tracking or something.
You know what I mean? Like, if this stuff were a little more every day to us, then I probably could
you know, fix it immediately. Yeah, there's a setting in those trackers that you can make them
really slow to respond. But that's exactly it. There's like, we're funding here. The ACF is
funding that sort of thing that makes it more obvious to people. So the, you know, he, I don't know
what he's going to do with the money, but wouldn't it be nice that we to get to a place where there
are IRC channels where people can go, look, my, my, just you go onto this IRC channel and you
describe exactly what the thing is and somebody gets back to you, oh yeah, well, what you can do is
you can go into the accessibility settings and turn this off and turn that off. Okay, thank you very
much. I'll go do that, you know, I want to get to that stage and it doesn't matter what destroy
you're in, you know, it will be there right across the board whether you use an sonar or whether you
use a Ubuntu or whatever that the accessibility menu would be available to everybody.
Can I be a little embarrassed? I would have to say that some of the companies who make lots of
money on computer systems aren't actually working on this themselves and donating it as open
source and free and open source software because this just seems like helping people should be
what we're after to make everyone's life better as we have a good life. And I really do support
Jonathan again and I'll say that and this is the great project and I hope people continue to
fund this project. Don't ever be embarrassed for the lack of corporate ethics in the world because
you spend a lot of time being embarrassed. Don't do that, Dave. Anyway, I'd like to move on if we can.
Yeah, please. And as a nice change we had Jesran and my bill just shooting the breeze and from my
point of view, they can come on and shoot the breeze as much as they're like, I really enjoyed this show.
Yeah, I don't know if I said it in the comments but if I didn't, I had meant to but these are two
guys who I could just listen to them read the phone book or the dictionary. They're just I love
these guys. They're great guys. Absolutely. Yeah, I said that I said the exact same thing last year and
of course I've been hanging out with them for for longer than that over on the Linux Outlaws
forum. So yeah, if you guys have the time, there's there's a lot of the two man shows that have
gone by the wayside and you're come up and gone away. So I think for another one. So anytime you
guys want to sit around and talk, listen to you. Absolutely here too. The following day we had
a show where Dave Whitman helped us by you know, getting bringing a sonar to the floor and
Poké give us a little bit of a rundown what's going on with the with the install which but you know,
as you were going through the install you ran into problems. I just think that highlights
the fact that well, you know, if Jonathan hadn't done the work that he did and all the other
people behind, you know, do an orca and all the rest, you would never have got enough or at least
you got somewhere. Yeah, yeah, and even a Ubuntu, I've got to say, I mean, I'm not the biggest fan
of the Ubuntu distribution, but I mean, even the work that they've done with you and it was there
installer that is accessible, you know, I mean, that's kind of what made it possible in the first
place. But yeah, I mean, in this particular show, I know it was last minute, I know it was short
notice, but we put a call out to the community on the mailing list to have people send in,
you know, something about sonar, something, you know, putting some support behind it and trying
to just help us out one more time or some feedback. And we got a real small amount of feedback from
that. We didn't get much participation. And it's just, you know, for you guys who are just
listening and not sending shows in and calling, we're seeing that everywhere with HPR right now.
There's a lack of participation and we're running desperately low on shows and I don't think anybody
wants to see it languish again the way that it did a few years ago. And I don't think anybody's
going to be willing to stand by and watch that happen. And again, it's discussed it before where
if the queue runs out, it says we shut down. I mean, I don't see anybody else stepping up to say
I'm not going to let that happen. So please just take that as a, I don't know, a wake-up call maybe
that we need some contribution here. We need some more shows. Well, yeah, I've said it before.
Thank what's happened this month. And I'm really glad with the new queueing system. We're putting
in, we're putting in speech subsystem. We're putting in shows based on last come first served,
I guess would be whoever has not released the show in the longest possible time. It doesn't
kind of roll off the tongue if you can come up with a better description. I'd appreciate it.
Last in first out, right? Works just like my email box.
Okay, last in first out. Okay, fair enough. I love the new queue. It's crazy.
It's, it is nice. I mean, old Dave, Dave has been working on Dave Morris, that is from Scotland,
my QA, the part ahead of QA for HPR. Really, I've got Dave in the tank. So I put a few
bash scripts together, just kind of seeing how the queueing will work out. But if you go to the
calendar page now, folks, you'll be able to see where your show is and when it's encoded.
And the order and whose show comes out next, because previously I just did whatever the
old show was and then put that out regardless. But now I kind of need to check and see who has
put in the show. If the show comes up to the FTP server, it immediately gets sent out if the host
hasn't posted a show in a while, which is why you've got, you have Tissa Welp coming out
before Frank Bell, for instance. So Frank has done quite a few shows recently. So there you go.
So what actually means right now, for instance, we have 16 shows in the queue,
which is great. We have 16 shows, but those are only from four hosts.
I want to ask, since we got 5150 here, and he's a quarter of those four hosts,
5150, how do you feel about the new queue? Since you seem to be, I mean, there's the upside to it
is that if somebody throws a show in and they haven't done it in a while, they're pretty much at
the head of the queue. The downside is for a guy like you, who's put all these shows out,
yours get pushed back. So how do you, the guy who's actually doing contribution here? How do you
feel about it? Well, I wasn't going to say anything about that. I'm kind of glad you brought it up.
There, you know, we could look at it in in theory, if some, if we were getting the number of shows
in, we're getting it this time last year, and somebody like me contributes two or three shows in
a row as I tend to do. In theory, those could just be pushed back, you know, perpetually, I guess.
So, you know, if we were getting the number of shows we ought to be getting in, and I contribute
four shows, it could, you know, those could be my four shows for the year if the queue was working
the way, if we're getting in shows the way it ought to be. So I mean, it might be fair for some
sort of time limit before you drop the, you know, six months or three months or whatever,
we clear those out. But I hate to get back into that whole argument again, because no
solution is going to be perfect in every case and suit everybody. Right, right, right. But I mean,
I guess I was just asking, you know, how you, I mean, well, I don't know, I guess it really
hasn't had too, too, too much effect yet. But, you know, you're, you're the guy that's putting in
all the shows right now, you and, and, uh, Ahuka. So I thought it asked. And not to start the
plot, you're right, I'm sorry, I probably shouldn't have fasted publicly. But can I, I have noticed that
on the mailing list the last couple of weeks, it's, you know, it's, it's sort of been like, well,
if nobody contributes a show, I'm going to make you listen to 5150 in Ahuka.
No, no, it was purely intended of 50 and 50 and Ahuka are the backbone of HBO right now.
They're YouTube guys are carrying HFIR. It can't be like that, because we all like to listen to Ahuka.
No, he knows I'm teasing with buddies. Well, when it gets to the one that came out this week,
that's, that's not the one that I'm proudest of. Definitely, in fact, I would have put that on
break glass and emergency, in emergency list. But at the time, there were only 15 shows in the queue
or it, at least it showed up in the queue when I contributed. So I thought, oh, man, I bet we're
we're going to be out in a week. We better put that one in. Yeah, exactly. But I think, Frank,
at the same time, what will happen is that as just to, to, to give the counter argument to what
will happen, if people contribute shows, if somebody else contributes four shows, only one of
their shows is going to get played and the other three are also going to be held. It's not like,
as soon as, as soon as their first show goes out, they're back to the back of the queue again.
So yes, in theory, if everybody contributed, you would have to wait for a year for your shows to
come out, but that unfortunately ain't going to happen. And with this way, everybody gets a shot at
putting in the shows. So you get one show and then you go back to the, you know, you get your ticket
and you go stand at the back of the line again. And then the next person comes in and they go back
to the back of the line. And eventually, you go, will come a point where like there's only 200 and
we're only 175 active holes anyway. So the maximum, the absolute maximum you're ever going to have
to wage is 176 days, 176 slots. When I was a kid, my mom said, if you haven't got anything nice to
say, then don't say anything at all. And I think Garjola's mom must have told him the same thing
because he has only ever said nice things to people. And his show on the next day, I live in
New New Emax was really, it's great to hear from Garjola. He's just that he's a great guy.
Oops. Yeah, and why that was really strange transition there, Ken, sorry. Sorry,
51 54 going off on there. Obviously, we've been moved on by, by Polky.
Yeah. And, uh, I just want to throw in there. I mean, yeah, I don't, I'm not an Emax user,
but I think that show in the next one from claw two are very interesting. I'm probably not,
it's, it's not something I ever going to use, but I'm glad somebody has the knowledge of it and
passes it along. So that's, that's, listening those shows is about as close to Emax as I would like to
get. But, uh, I'm with you. Hey, but, but what other network on the planet? Are you going to get two
Emax shows in a row from? Come on. And, uh, the second one was or mail in Emax and that was
a tattoo who, who, by happy accident, uh, had sent in another Emax show. It's, it's amazing.
But I, uh, listening to both of these shows, those things, you know, that joke about, uh,
Emax being an operating system, I am beginning to get that now. Uh, yeah. How do you mean joke?
Exactly. But tell me, Nito, do you, uh, do you use Emax? No, I'm a, the I user myself.
No, Nito, the joke is, uh, Emax is a great operating system. If only it had a good text editor.
Yeah, I'm just not getting the part where that's actually a joke instead of the truth.
It's absolutely sounds like that. Yeah. Okay. Um, the ring of fail continues. Uh, the following
day was, uh, Charles and N-N-N-L-NJ. And I, of course, had to edit in for this entire thing of the,
um, for each of these shows that were during the sooner project promotion period,
each of the shows I put in, uh, an update at the beginning, which meant I had to reencode all the
shows every evening and do the little spiel and give the updates and all that sort of thing.
And of course, like a new know that I am, I picked up the first version of the show that he had
sent in and then later on he sent in, uh, a edited version. And of course, I put out the wrong one.
But as a happy, happy thing of fate, we were able to re-send that down, but I do apologize to
everybody who got two shows coming in. But, uh, and also thanks to Dave for reminding me to put in
edited on the show notes and then the ID-3 tags and stuff like that.
Can I really like the, um, map show and, um, thank you to Charles and I guess it's New Jersey or NJ,
we're doing that and I hope he does some more shows, but mathematics is a great addition,
I think to our cue. I couldn't agree more. In fact, I know he says you weren't listening of maps,
but I, uh, I have always struggled with maps always and I'm not saying I'm enjoying these shows,
but I am going along with them. Oh man, I couldn't disagree with you more. Can I
used to love math in grade school and junior high? And when I got to high school,
I had some personal problems and was real stressed out as a kid and, um, you know, everybody is
whatever, uh, but I was so good at math at that point that I figured I didn't have to pay
attention in class and I slept through an entire year of math and I was never able to catch up
again and since then it's just been a tremendous frustration for me and Charles is reminding me what
I loved about math and what I enjoyed about it and I just, you know, Charles and New Jersey thank
you so much for that. This is, these have been terrific shows, just two fantastic shows in a row
that really, really good stuff. And if, if anybody out there skipped over them because they thought,
oh, this isn't going to be something I'm going to be interested in, I promise it will not make
your head hurt as much as you think. Not as much as you think, no, but you would do well to follow
the links in the show notes. There are full links, fantastic show notes and there's a spreadsheet,
conumeric spreadsheet as well as an XLS and there's the whole thing is downloadable as a ZIPPAR
from that. So cool. Yeah, but don't feel that you need to. I listened to this thing while I was
snow blowing my driveway, we got about five feet of snow the day, the day that that came in and
I listened to it all snow blowing the driveway and I was able to follow along perfectly with the way
that he explained it. He did such a good job. He did an excellent job. Yes, both for those of us
who are not moth experts. I can't, that's what I'm saying. I'm not a moth expert. I dropped out a
math in ninth grade, which would be maybe algebra two. I mean, I just dropped out of it. I just
went to sleep and I never woke up again. I never took trigonometry or calculus or any of that.
I don't even understand advanced algebra because of what I did, you know, the mistake that I made
back then. And I was still, he explained this so well. It just, it was, it was really beautiful.
I can't say, I can't say enough good things, but I'll stop for the sake of the length of the show
here. I'm really enjoying the fact that these type of highly specific shows are coming on well
researched, well presented. It's fantastic. You know, people doing the work, putting the work in.
And can I see an intersection here between a hookahs? And that brings us up to a level
790. But I see an intersection here between Libre office. Count maybe in this Charles and New
Jersey with his map. You could be right. And just to, to go on about well researched, well,
well presented shows, you have to hand it to hookahs well for this whole Libre office series,
which is really a problem to me to get a, you know, a separate horror series or SS feed thing fixed
finished. And that's what I was alluding to last month with the, who made the changes for the
SS feed. I put in some changes that allow us to do that per feed that you'll be able to, you know,
oh, I like that. I came in a, you know, episode three. Oh, here's a series. Let me, let me just
subscribe to that on the feed reader. This series of shows, while I have listened to them on the
go, it's, this is one that I need to sit in front of a computer to do right. And I just haven't
had the time, but I, I have been saving these. I've been moving them into a special folder on my
MB3 player. And I've got all the hookah shows in there. And when I can sit down and, uh, and learn
something again, these are, these are on, they're, they're at the top of my playlist.
There was one. Yeah, I have to go ahead and say I'm, I mean, uh, again, this is another thing that
I didn't think that I would be that terribly into. But every one of these, I, I have to learn
something. Because I just sit down and type up the document. I said, well, I don't need this
library of pre-made documents, but a lot of the stuff he's, he, he has said, especially,
I, well, I think it was a hookah that, uh, talked about using the, uh, various header, header,
heading sizes rather than bowl face or changing the font makes it easier for someone like Jonathan
to parse through the talk, uh, parse through a document. And then this, this last week, his whole
example of, you know, if you're doing a technical document or whatever and you're, you're, you're
putting in say commands, I don't think that was the, uh, the example he used, but it'd be what I might
do on my show notes that, uh, you know, I, I used to do my, all my commands bowl face and that didn't
work out so well on the website. And so Ken Fallon, your editor comes in and says, change it to this
that you could, instead of going through, you know, uh, chapters and paragraphs, but, you know, how,
knows how big this document you're talking about is that to change where, where something is a
command like command and change it from this, uh, from, uh, well, and say font, but, uh, well,
this, this style, change it through, throughout the document to another style, uh, and instead of
just going to each one and changing it, that how you could, if you set up a style, then you could do
that one time, one time and have it done. That, that just, it was just brilliant to me.
It is, uh, it is an extension. There was one piece of feedback I did want to give.
And that was, I, he mentioned about the difference between the letters and therefore, but that
actually wasn't what I was referring to. When somebody in his earlier episodes, he's, I give
him some feedback that he gave the example of writing the letter. And in the US, you have a particular
format. I don't know how a letter is written. You thought that in school and it's standardized,
but that is a different format. You need to hear what is in the Netherlands, what's the convention?
You put the, your, your address on the right hand side and then the date and then deers, sir,
and then you put the, the address of the person you're writing to on the left hand side.
I'm sorry. I wouldn't be sure because, uh, I'm using, uh, I use LaTech myself if I need to write a
letter and that just puts it in the right order. But I'm seeing a lot of, uh, things which
are similar with how LaTech works and the way that he uses open office as opposed to how I thought
open office was to be used as to, yeah, you just change the font to what you need it to be,
start typing and change it whenever you go. Yeah, I think he's doing it properly. I don't,
I think if you follow what he is describing in the liberal office, the jump to something
is more complex like LaTech's would not be, uh, would be a lot easier, but the concepts are very,
very similar. Can it sounds like what you were talking about that, that particular formatting,
uh, it could also be done with a template. It sounds like what you need is two columns for a short
while. No, absolutely. I, I'm not, I'm not arguing with you with that. I was just saying that, uh,
my feedback to him was to be, uh, and his show just, you weren't talking about paper size.
I wasn't talking about paper size. I was talking about the, the letter, like, the letterhead
conventions are letters about idea because it means the letterhead format, but say if you're writing
a resume or a curriculum veto, um, the style that you use in the US is completely different to
the style that you use in the UK or in the Netherlands. You know, each country has its own different
style for particular documents. So, um, I was just making the point to him that, uh, when
you're talking to the audience, don't assume that, uh, that I will know when you say, okay,
we will do a resume, for example, don't assume that I will know what you're talking about because
here, if I was doing a resume, I'd do it in a completely different format. Do you understand what
I mean? Yeah, no, I absolutely do. I absolutely do. When, when you get your, your letter, uh, template
sorted out, you ought to upstream it so that you can, uh, it can be included in the next distribution
of this when somebody selects the other ones as their, uh, locale. No, but those do exist, but, uh,
I think my point I was trying to make was when given an example, it's like you earlier,
almost saying you were talking about middle school and, you know, when you dropped out, and that
to me, I, I don't know what age you are while I kind of do because of, I've been hanging around
with Americans for so long, but yeah, I don't know what age those are. So if, rather than being
assuming that your listener knows about it, give the age rather than, you know, pick an example
that is, that is clear. It's a minor thing. Honest to go, honest to God, it's like, go up to the
Mona Lisa and saying, you know, you're, you missed a bit there in the bottom right hand corner,
really? It's a minor thing compared to the quality of these shows. So let's just move on.
Yeah, yeah, see, shouldn't she have been a blonde some people?
For lines. Exactly. And Nido, one of your shows, thank you very much, even though it was from
Dudeman, but you're initiative. And I think it'd be a nice time now for you to, uh, to talk to us
and tell us about the Saturday sessions. Um, yes. Um, well, first I'd like to apologize for being
a terrible host in that I rescheduled the sessions without editing the previous episodes.
And if you've been online during the time specified in them and nobody was around,
I apologize for my error. And I hope you do not blame the rest of the HBR crew. And about
the scheduled time, uh, special to specify this will be marked. The next one will be March 9,
2013 at 1700 hours UTC. So if you like, and if you like to contact me about a show you want to
contribute, which you need help with or you want to say I'm going to be there or whatever you can
email me at a Saturday sessions at hacker, hackerpublicradio.org, or you can just show up on Saturday.
Well, good. I was going to ask for some arch help, but I didn't get organized because it would
take some, I wanted to do a, a, uh, pace pin on show you what I've done so far and what,
what I still would like to be able to do. Yeah, I just asked him for some in it help. And he's like,
I don't know, but I'll take a guess that he was right right along the way. So that was great,
but sadly, we didn't think to record that. So I think they, I think the point of the shows and
correct me for among needle is if somebody's thinking about doing an episode or, or, um, you know,
just can't get over that line to do the episode. Well, then come on on here to the, uh,
mobile server, all the information for these episodes will be with account on clock on the front
page of HPR. So you know, exactly when it is in your local time with the number of seconds,
hours, minutes days, uh, to go to the next session. If you come on right then, then you can, uh,
just join in on mumble and go, right, I want to talk about anyone interested in talking about this
and I guarantee you the answer will be yes. And then, uh, simply just have them, um, have,
you know, talk and we can go, you know, well, you know, you've spoken for five minutes on this topic.
Oh, that's interesting. What about this? What about that? And you'll get a bit of undergo and ask
the questions that you would like asked. And which mumble server is that? And who do we need to
thank? What is mumble server being available to us? That will be the Linux basic server.
Yes. Thanks again to the Linux basic guys. You guys are, are all right to say the least.
Uh, in particular, and in particular, Jay, new setter because it's his server. Oh, thank you very
much. I did not know that. Can you, uh, farm that off to me in an email? Please 50. Yeah,
I was just server either. I thought it was Terry's server. Oh, okay. Well, every time I thank door,
door says no talk, thank Jay and he's probably said that to me too, but I'm not so smart. You guys
maybe I've got it wrong, but that's what I thought who I thought he was usually crediting. I think
maybe Jay, new setter maybe does most of the administration on it there then. Well, I'll ask,
I'll ask door who it is. We need to thank and I'll have that answer for you by next month, Ken.
Well, thank you. And in actual fact, I just wanted to take some time out here. And I know where
we spent a lot of month, a lot of time this month, you know, on about the Sonar project, but
we do have to really thank the people who, you know, make all this infrastructure available to people,
like lunar pages, for instance, for all the hosting that they give to HPR and the bandwidth
that we use as phenomenal. Like it's, it's not a joke. We're talking about turbines, about
turbines of bandwidth. And if any of us were paying for that, you know, it's, it's a significant
amount of resources that they're just given to us for this. Stankdog as well, every single month,
a significant amount of money goes out of this pocket. It's essentially a tablos. You know,
a nice Android tablos goes out of his pocket every month to keep binary revolution and hackable
brick radio up. And the folks over at archive.org doing their stuff. And then we have people here,
on the mobile server, donating this infrastructure. How many different podcasters are in
their own since studio, the techie geek, Sunday morning, index review, pod brewers, hackable
brick radio, going to the next alarm, just an amazing amount, an amazing resource for people
that I never have to worry about, you know, a place to meet. And these people are just given it
to us for nothing. And all we have, let me throw troops in here too, because he coded the original
HPR page. And I know I said that the new page was an improvement, but it's not significantly
different from what troops did. And what troops did was indeed significant. So I just want to add
him to that list too. And that doesn't mean that, you know, I think that's the complete list. I
know we're forgetting dozens and dozens of people, but yeah. Yeah, exactly. No, I'm more specifically
talking about the people who are paying for hosting right now today in, you know, 2013. They're
like this month, these guys will be out of pocket because they're keeping this infrastructure
alive. It's not the internet isn't free, you know, that is the key point, you know, and this
entertainment, such as it is from me at least, sorry, I just got an email from people saying I'm
being too negative, but I'm myself. But this stuff isn't free. And, you know, there's like a moral
obligation there, I felt, which is why I put so much time and effort into it. I get so much,
I get a free operating system right here on my computers that enabled me to do so much professionally
and at home and, you know, on the train or wherever. And this is my way of giving back. And I think
if you're sitting there wondering whether you should do your show or not, I think the answer is
yes, you, you know, give us back a show. Thanks very much. And for all of us for podcasters who
who use Linux Basics Mumble server, there is a contribute link. I believe on the front page of
Linux Basics.com. So let us not forget that. And before we move on from this last Saturday session,
the only thing I would, I mean, I love the show, but other than that, and especially since you guys
talked about arch, but the one thing I would mention about it, I was a little fused throughout the
show and until the end, because the first five minutes were the same as the start of the other
show that was taken from this Saturday session. And I sort of figured that out because I almost
jumped ahead. I said, well, I've heard this. Did I listen to it out of sequence or did Ken post it
wrong or something? But then I, after the theme music, then I could, it didn't take me wrong,
no, I haven't heard this before. And at the end, somebody said, well, let's cut this off and
make it its own show. So again, if there's anybody out there who thought maybe they'd heard that
show before, you haven't. So go go back and listen to it. Thanks, 50. And it was artist Linux from
Dubeman, actually. And I haven't heard from him in a while. Is everything okay with Dubeman?
I haven't seen him in, well, I mean, usually, usually checked into this mumble server about
one or two o'clock by time on Friday nights. But since we really haven't been doing
Linux basics, Linux bit basics is coming back for a reboot. And we haven't been doing
pod brewers. There hasn't been anybody around at that time. So you may have gotten out of the habit.
But I guess everybody couldn't check on. He's still doing his dude, Manavi.
I've learned a podcaster. He hasn't, he hasn't, well, okay. Well, I guess we should drop him
online and ask him how it's going. But it was good episode and I didn't, didn't enjoy it.
And the following day was Dan again with his show me something that I thought I knew and found
those that I had in the freaking clue. Yeah, I saw that I saw that list. I thought, okay,
it's how to set the time. But they're not completely completely different and how to use it to
time the efficiency of your software or maybe compare how a process runs on one system versus
a different system or if you make a tweak how it runs, how it runs after you make some changes.
So I think it just sounds like an invaluable command for contrasting one system or one
sorry, I'm going to, you get what I mean. Yeah, even I know how to set the time. That's just
app get install NTPD. That's an easy one. Yeah, so this, you know, this one was the time commander
though. Well, there's not a lot to say about that. You run time and then the command and it tells you how
long, you know, your time has. And then suddenly there's this thing called user bin time and it does
so much more. So this is another example of those well research, well presented shows that make
me embarrassed to, yeah, it's just done a very, very, very, very, very good series here.
I think Dan Wasco is in danger of being kidnapped and held to where people can get
all this information out of them and make it into a book. They're going to turn them upside
down and shake them until it all falls out with what they're going to do. That would probably,
I don't know if that would work or not, but I'll be a star. If somebody catches them and holds
them upside down, I'm going to come kick them. Yeah, you might, you might shake some of that music out
and that wouldn't be good. Oh, no, don't do that. Don't shake music out of them or. I love the
music. Maybe it's because I listened to his shows sped up one and a half, one point eight times.
So it sounds a lot better. No, no, we're, we're talking about tilt scan. I know he plays at the end
of tilt. Jesus, I was not going to say that term because this is usually a family show, but no,
no, no, we don't have anything any show I'm on now. I'm deliberately dropping f off. It's just
so that's so that people won't have to hear my voice on the on the non explicit stream.
Good thinking. My wife's gone to bed. So this show is going on a little bit.
And the next day, let me give a little bit back. This was probably my favorite show of the month
was our very own Ken Fallon interviewing. Chris, is it Condor? Condor, right? Yeah.
From broadband for the rural north, the barn project. Wow. It's such, she's such a good,
you know, so easy to interview. And this is such a fantastic project. It's just an amazing
what they've done. It's amazing. And you know, have you ever been on the internet and you just
click on YouTube links and YouTube links and YouTube links. If you ever have an afternoon that you
just want to lose, go and watch the videos that are linked in the show notes to this. They're just
fascinating to follow. See, I can't do that, Ken, because I don't have fiber. Exactly. And it's,
it's actually, you know, 50, 150, I can't help thinking about you and lost in Bronx. And
my, my own brothers actually living out in the sticks. And, you know, we're going to do a point
where there shouldn't be a discussion about this really. You know, you should have a fiber
connection to every home building, whatever. And, you know, everybody should have that level of
access, of access to technology. Well, I was so disappointed. Poke, I found out what they were
pushing in their ground, because I told Poke a week ago that they were rerunning because
it's all this highway project ahead of it. They had to rerun all the power lines. And then,
and I knew they were moving the cable line because Cox cable comes right past my house.
And the phone, and the phone line trunk. And then I saw them going out in different directions,
trenching along the county roads and across my neighbor's field. We're here one direction.
And across my field where they ran the power line, the other direction. And I thought, well,
maybe somebody's setting up dark, dark fiber doing some fun. And I talked to one of the people
who says, no, we're the power company. And we're running, we're running underground wires. And
they're putting up brand new poles and new wires in the same exactly the same traces. I don't
know what they're doing. I know it's going to have no impact on my internet. I'm afraid.
It's probably that they're putting the power underground because it's it's it works better
underground. It doesn't get affected by storms. And they're probably putting the poles there so
that they can lease them out to telephone and internet and whoever else wants to run,
run poles, run cables in the future. It would be my guess. It's just a wild guess though.
I will tell you something. Back in the 1970s, they telecom provider who need to know this country
here that I live in now. We're running out cables, copper cables to every new building and every
upgraded building from the local exchanges. If they had to run a new copper cable,
they were running fiber optic cable along with it. And it cost 50 cents per meter more to buy
these cables. And a budget person's finance person said, no, you have to stop you have to stop
doing this and you have to go back to run regular copper cables because the 50 cents was too much
to run back. And now they're, you know, they were in a position that if they had continued
doing that more than 75% of the country would have fiber running into their homes already.
Well, just tell Chris that any time she wants to, she can come here and dig a trench across my
property. I was so tempted. I'm actually tempted to get my brothers and like we know how a
spade works and head up there for a week because I'll tell you that will be my idea of a relaxing
week away. Just think about it. You get out in the country, you get to do some real, you know,
physical work, go down to the pub, plug in your computer to a gigabess into this and you're on
the mess. Well, see thing is, if I had a gig bed or if I had a high broadband, I would probably
download less because as it is, I download just about every new distro it comes out just in case
I someday want to play with it. And, you know, if I knew that any time I wanted it, I could just
click on it and it would be there, I wouldn't have to download it. There you go. Exactly.
But I think that Chris herself is just an amazing person and so much fun to listen to because
everything, she's very, very sensible and no matter what you say to her, no matter what you ask
her, her response just seems to be in the well duh, you do it the sensible way. Yeah, exactly.
I love the whole idea of the women's institute. I don't know if you guys got that. Do you know
the women's institute at all? It's an organization for farmers' wives essentially and they actually
are quite well organized and they do, they traditionally will go in and do the church and do
the flower arranging for that and they will have fundraising events around for various different
things. And you know, to hear that these people want to, yeah, I think we should be the ones doing
splicing fiber. Yes, of course you should be. Yeah, of course. The fiber splicing is something
that's done by these people who are used to playing with threads like she said. They're used to
thread needles. Why can't they thread a fiber? It's a movie here. I want to go over and make a movie
about this. Yeah, for real too. And well, hey, when you go for that maybe. And it isn't the physical
labor like digging trenches, like why can't the quote-unquote big strong men be out digging the
trenches. You know what I mean? Exactly. Right. And they're just so nonchalant about it because
over here, I'm sure over there, that's a sought after skill. Because I've never worked with a
telecom. I don't know how to do it. I would love to learn. But, you know, somebody has that and
wants to get a job. This rather than having to be trained, that's a real marketable skill. And
here's all these ladies. Yeah, we're just doing it. Exactly. I mean, I find this fascinating.
I've worked in telecoms for 15 years or so. And it's obvious we use fiber everywhere. But
you use fiber patch cables and you patch it into these things here and you patch it over there.
And you don't actually splice anymore. You know, nobody splices. And you know, the dark fiber
just isn't the ground. It's miraculous how it got there. But, you know, there's some guys and they
pull their fiber. And that's fine. That's what they do. But that's that's that's why it's so
interesting to see somebody putting the infrastructure on the ground. They're digging the holes,
they're putting the pipes in and they're putting a line to every single house. Yeah, yeah, they do
splice all the time. And you don't get to see it too much in a building like that because you usually
put those those quick lock connectors on there. Yeah, exactly. I've seen splicing fusion
splicing gun once and it is so cool to watch it happen because the particular machine that the
guy had that I saw it had a microscopic camera in it and you could see the fiber as the machine
you know, you feed it into both sides and you see the machine line them up. So then you see it,
you see it move it on the x axis side to side until it lines up and you see it move it on the y
axis side to side and lines it up and then brings them closer together and then adjusts them
again. These tiny little things and when it gets it just right, you actually because it's a camera,
it's the camera can look at it. It doesn't get hurt. It watches this fusion happen and the whole
screen just kind of it's like a movie. It goes white like starting in the center. You see a point
of white and light and then the whole screen just glows white. It's it's really really neat because
it was fantastic to watch happen. I mean, I've seen it all right, but you know, not to the level.
Go to the videos if you want to see what Polki describes. Go to the videos you'll see people
doing that on in the middle of the field out in in Cumbria. Anyway, shall we move on? It's
we're pushing 116 now. I guess we could skip the next one. It was really bad. That was just
something. Like I said, they're they're going to turn out. I didn't need to do it. I don't know
what happened if it was a glitch or an update brought it in the printer definition files in the
Lunaro where I could where I could find them. But by that time, I'd already done the research
and gained a little bit of knowledge. And so I passed along what I had, but it was I'm not sure
if everything I said in there was entirely true because I went from a post I found on
Linux questions that in the end I didn't have I didn't really have the chance to actually test.
I did enjoy this episode and I'm filing all your episodes under some day I will come back to that.
You just know that there will be some day that you will get caught out with this and you'll need
to come back to it. I did not even know that these were compressed files that they that they were
zipped up. So that in itself was useful information. Thanks.
Well, I don't know if the actual PPD that's created when you set up a printer that it is because I
look at it just looks it's just a text file. But it's the the posted I saw says it's expecting to see
all the PPDs that are that are pre-installed or come come with the distribution to be in a gzip file.
So that like I said that's the part I don't know that could be completely inaccurate.
I say this is possibly one of those episodes that we'll be listened to by many people and about
three people will be thanking you very very much for having done this. But even even
nothing else you're right up on how to use cups is spot on because it's a walkthrough and how to use
cups. Great. Yeah, we've had we've had cups cups walkthroughs for though. So I didn't know if
I was it's good maybe good for a reminder for folks who haven't heard those. I did want to correct
you though. And that is that the it is Apple it is an Apple product but it's only an Apple product
because they bought it and the reason they bought it was because gplv3 was coming out and they did
not want to have anything that was gplv3. So the both the company saw that it would remain gplv2.
Okay, I was unaware of that. There you go. Anyway, the last show was Thistleberg from
Caribbean's. I love you. I was talking to us about distractionless writing which
where does he come off thinking he can tell us about distractionless. He comes on every podcast
and distracts everybody. I think that's the real key to distractionless writing. Get it out of
your system on everybody else's show. Exactly. Well, he goes right all day and then the
mag goes on to all the other podcasts and then talks to people. Yeah, right. I love this one. He's
a great guy and I know I know I was probably a little bit harsh with him on the New Year's Eve
show when he was a little tipsy and I had a hard time letting people talk but I love this a lot.
Yeah. This actually was quite interesting because I had heard about these on, you know,
life hackering stuff for the Mac and sometimes for Windows but I've never knew that there were
these two products for Linux and this is fantastic to have if I ever do get down to writing.
So that's it. That's the shows. The next one up in the queue looking we have no high priority.
We have no reserved episodes. We do actually we should have a reserved episode that should be
this show actually. That's reserved for tomorrow. And the next one will be Frank Bell,
OTR and the World Wide Web, whatever that is. That is, no, actually it won't be because
I just got a lost in Bronx episode that's come in and because lost in Bronx is
not lost in, then he's first out. But it's not lost in, I'm first out. Pokey.
No, I know it isn't. You're right. It's not. It's, uh, whoever fair, I don't know. It's because
it's been far too long since we've heard from lost in Bronx. Yes, right. But in fairness,
even if he posted a show yesterday, it would still be far too long since we heard from lost in
Bronx. But then again, he'd been doing a lot of shows and oh, I really like that book.
Did you read the space one? Oh, yeah. Yeah. And it sounds like he's getting very close to having
a street candle. So the next, or the next novella in the series ready. Oh, you make me very happy.
You make me very happy. That is very addictive. I, you know, with some good series, the space. What was
that? The half share series? I really got into that as well. Yeah, quarter share that's Nathan
Yeah, Nathan. Although I thought the ending to that was a bit thingy. Speaking of which book reviews,
speaking of which. Okay, it's got to be revived. We have to get back on this and we got to, I know,
I'm very, very sorry. We have to do this. We can do this on one of the Saturday episodes. Come on,
it's an ideal time. Do half an hour, you know, do, do one hour of like a regular show and then
the book review could be done. Yeah, you're right. You're absolutely right. I can't do it this
week or I would, but yeah, we got it. We got to get it back. Yeah, we'll plan on it.
What was the last book? It was that cowboy girl from Space Casey. Space Casey. Oh,
Cristiana Ellis. Oh, dear, dear. Save it. Okay, I will make sure you let me know because I read
this one. Yeah, but what he does is he contacts the author and the author listens to the shows.
No, it's not just a obscure HB or where they're never going to listen to the show. You have to go,
well, the author is actually listening, so I better be very careful about what I say.
No, and not only exactly, and that's another reason why I have to get back on this is because I
owe an author a review of his book. He he actually personally inscribed a hardcover to me
and inside the hardcover, it says, when are you going to review my book on the HVR book club?
Okay, we got to do that. Yep, I absolutely have to. And actually, you guys know him. It was Scott
Siggler because he actually did a call for our epic show. So yeah, we really owe it to him.
Not that I don't owe it to Cristiana Ellis because I love her books, but I owe it to him as well.
And to everybody, I got to get back. I know I do. I'm very sorry. I've let this languish.
No, I really I really love the book review thing. If not, if nothing else, it it
brings exposes more books, audio books, which is fantastic because sometimes listen to Linux podcasts
can be a bit, you know, a change is good as a rest, do you know what I mean? Sometimes.
Oh yeah, I've been making some inroads about, you know, spreading creative comments around
other folks. The healthcare worker comes in a few times a week and helps with my dad.
He she was talking about reading and all that. So I introduced her to pottyabooks.com and she
knew who Siggler was because she was she's in the horror movies and stuff. So starting on getting
more coverage. It's amazing actually. I'm listening to my music now and most of it is, you know,
C.C. Hates and Jemento and whatever. And I feel guilty. I was on the IRC saying who was I talking to
a deaf panel? A deaf panel? I don't know if that's a sample. Talking about the song that he
recommended was similar to another artist, but they hadn't released their their stuff from
creative comments. And it's like crappy now I'm in this situation and referring to a piece of music
can't pass it on. I can't do anything. My hands are completely tied, you know. Yes, frustrating.
Anyways, other stuff that's been going on. I've been messing about with the website in places.
Go ahead. Yeah, I just want to apologize that I don't have anything to say about this
or web show. We just kind of lost over. I haven't heard it yet. I am behind this month. The last
show I heard was yours, Ken. So sorry, this is a web. It's not that I have it's not that I would have
nothing to say. It's just I haven't gotten to it. I'm fine. No, I just listen to it. I wasn't going to
say it, but I'm in the same boat. I think maybe we should not review the last week shows and put
those into the next month. How about that? We start doing that. Oh, I don't know about the last
weeks. I usually get those though. Oh, if we're going to talk about it, Ken, you know, usually I would
and you got to do what's got what works best for you since you're on a different time schedule, but
you know, usually that I could download the day show in the morning and lately it's been
kind of later in the day. That is due largely to the fact that I I post them now in the evening
instead of the morning. And like I said, you got to do what, you know, works best into your schedule
because you're, you know, you're doing way a way bigger share below than the rest of us. Yeah,
for sure. Well, Ken, what if, what if, you know, perhaps next time before we began recording,
just, you know, whoever was on to say, okay, what's the last show everybody heard and we could stop
at that point? Yeah, okay. Yeah. That would give everybody their their fair do their, you know,
their due time. Yeah, cool. Yeah, we can all, I wonder, yeah, let's do whatever's fair.
So, yes, there have been some website changes. I've been looking at the logs and we've been
getting needless to say, bombarded by people. So I've been tightening up some of the,
some of the pages a little and let's see, go through the thank yous and stuff one moment.
So apologies to John sprigs for not setting up your account. Yes, I will be doing that. That's on the,
uh, on the BPS server. Apologies to mark a Davis and Frank Bell for not posting their show on time.
And apologies to my bill and Charles in in J for, um, uh, my bill during the month we, um,
the show came out crackles and, uh, highly compressed and just, you know, completely off the wall.
And when I look back, his show had been in the queue for a while and there was a period of time
where, um, the conversion script that I was using was doing some weird stuff. So, uh, re, I think
I've got all those shows now, uh, reencoded correctly. So they, uh, the script, the conversion script
is working, um, is working better. Just a notice to everybody, I have a new, I have enabled another
option which does the normalization by default. So that's, um, the, what happened during the week
where the show was very quiet versus the intro and outro. I think it happened twice once on, um,
once on one of Dan's shows and it happened on the nog meeting show. So hopefully that will rectify it.
I would appreciate it if anybody would give me a shout if they feel that the audio quality
suffering is a result of that. And I also haven't set up the not-so-it-for-work flags yet.
And the reason for that is I met a complete mess of the, um, of the page I needed to, well,
I met a mess of it and I'm in the middle, I don't have time to fix it basically right now.
But as soon as I do, I will get them added and fixed. Now, I want to say some thanks to certain
people, uh, Dave Mars for all the QA work that he does for HPR. And, uh, for keeping me sane, by
times, um, to Neil Wallace, aka Roland Golfer for the heads up about the broken links. They're in the
process of being fixed. They, um, there have been a few, uh, obviously when we get links in,
everybody does their own show notes. Some of the links are correct. Some of them are not.
And I'm going back through a process of checking every link and all the pages to make sure that
they're all correct. As soon as I have that done, the next thing on the list is to make sure that
the, uh, website itself is correct HTML, which it is not. I am aware of that. But at least now we
have, uh, we should have valid HTML files in the feeds. And we will try and get the links working
correctly, uh, removing all the dead links and stuff like that, removing, um, infinite loops into
links, which has been fixed. So work is progressing. Um, on the website itself, we have made some small
changes. Um, there was a request to put the link for the org speaks an MP3 file and that was
moved up to the top listening org speaks an MP3 as well. So thanks to Richard Stalman for that.
No, that was been done anyway. Um, but they, what did you mean? Sorry.
If you look under HPR and then the title of the show, then it's hosted by whoever and then
underneath that and small letters, you have listen and org MP3 and speaks. So you don't have to scroll
down to the end of the show notes to the list and now section, which was Richard Stalman. Uh, I can't
remember. I remember who asked me to do that. Oh, you do. Oh, cool. Can you realize we took a
dropping on tilt this week because we don't also have opus yet. I'm waiting for epic. He's put
on my head, you know, epic canvas to give us the settings for that. And we can add just
easy peasy lemon squeezing. I can't, um, just to, so you know, I like your service. I just
emailed you. You got that done. Never had that happen before. Well, there you go. It's the open
source way. Actually, it's sadly amount of time I spent doing stuff on HPR as well.
But it's, you know, stuff like that. If you have improvements, um, people have sent me
requests for improvements and none of them have been thrown away. Um, a lot of them, some,
some are easy changes like that because it's an easy change. More of them require changes
to the database and take longer to do, but there hasn't been any request that anyone sent in
that I've ignored. Um, in action does not necessarily mean that I've ignored your request.
It's just I haven't got to get, I haven't got to do that yet. I don't think anybody's holding
anything against you. Can we, we know just how much work, well, I mean, we don't know just how
much work you do, but we know it's an awful lot more than anybody else. Oh, that's enjoyable.
So it's, it's people notice stuff. It's nice. Um, there was a, um, uh, speaking of audio
encoding, there was a link on a show on first weekly, some time ago, about a, um, audio, uh, audio
funnic. It was a UPH-O-N-I-C.com. And, uh, that was a audio encoding into different various
different formats with, um, with MP3 file, you know, with ID tags and all the rest of the basically,
what we've written on the back end or are writing on the back end seems to have been done if, if
anybody on the dev team wants to have a look at that, that would be interesting. There was also
some stuff on the mailing list, um, about t-shirts and, um, stickers and the like, uh, I don't know
Poki, are you more up to date on that than I am? Uh, I know that it'd be Dave. Yeah, I wanted to know
what a good t-shirt would look like. And so I didn't get any response for that. I actually got
Richard Quirin to design a t-shirt and I just stuck the link up and you can take a look at that.
And I've actually ordered sums as we sent to him, for him and his daughter, and then order
something myself for the Linux Fest in Northwest. Last year, when I tried to do, um, Poki's t-shirt
making like he does, I didn't have a very good success with it and spent quite a bit of time on it,
thought it'd be just better to spend around $15 for a t-shirt. And this one, two, three stickers,
where I got directed to maybe get some stickers made for the these bumper stickers. They have
the t-shirt, so we're working through that. I haven't got them back to terrify the quality yet,
but perhaps we could have some more stuff put on them if we want some more credits in that.
So you can see the design there, and I'll let you know how it goes at those. They should be
available for anyone who wants to order them once, you know, they get from the one to three stickers,
and they are fairly inexpensive, and my wife was real glad I wasn't going to be spending a
lot of time, the iron and stuff on the t-shirt, in fact, I spent a bit of time cleaning it afterwards.
That's, uh, I did up for it. Sorry for I'll count the last time, and it's just an awful lot of work,
and it calls more in the end. Yeah, I'm getting one of these for OCP-Y, thanks for the link.
By the way, folks, this, this, the Asset of Beforeness, and again, Richard Quearn is a gold to the,
that these are just awesome. Yeah, and I'll point out that he did, if you follow on Google
Plus a bit, he did also design a small bumper sticker for laptops that I've ordered some,
sent some over for Northeast Linux Fest to NY Bill, but they were great. I started out with a
little idea, and I mean, that guy turned what, my picked up thing into a real nice looking little
bumper sticker, I think, and they're on order. In fact, they've been, now, so we'll see how they
turn out pretty quick. Do you have, um, do you have a link for that? I saw it, I followed it, and I
also was just dumbfounded by, uh, by the guy's work. Okay, if I can find that and get it into the,
the show notes, just for people listening along, it's the new, uh, HPR Hacker Public Radio logo,
right in the center of the t-shirt, as you're, as you're breastplate, and then underneath that,
it's your ideas and projects podcasted. He hit the middle of the head. Which, by the way,
this is a good call back to something that you mentioned can on, on IRs, uh, no problem in the
mailing list that had a big effect on me is you suggested that, uh, what we focus on at the festivals,
if we're going to be doing tables there is to get these projects to understand that HPR is
their network also, and that they should be the ones contributing shows rather than us interviewing
that. And I, I really, really think that's a good idea and a good idea to be, uh, you know,
pushing forward with, um, it, it, if it works, if people pick it up, it, it gets us more shows,
and it takes the load off the people who, you know, want to be making shows as opposed to promoting
projects. I mean, whether or not we want, I mean, I shouldn't say that I do still want to promote
some projects, but, um, I just, I thought it was such a great idea that you had can, and that's
going to be my goal at, uh, the Northeast Linux Fest this year, two weeks from now actually.
And this, I was trying to think of, like, a catchy logo, like, our catchy, you know,
talk, HPR talked to us, sorry, you with us or whatever, but he's just hit the middle of the head,
your ideas and projects podcasted. But, you know, just summarizes what we do.
Can we order these t-shirts now, Dave, with these available yet?
I just ordered some the other day, and so they're going to, they're getting a screen burned,
or how would they do that? And then, so they should be available, and you could just use my, um,
name David Whitman or HPR. I talked, I've done no ordering over the internet. I've just called
this Karen every time I just call for sales there and talk to her, and so, so far she hasn't
scolded me for that. So I think they're already for order. I cannot verify what the quality,
the actual shirt is, and maybe we, if we don't like that, maybe we could work that up a little bit,
and put a little extra money. Well, we've ordered stickers from them before, and their,
their stickers are absolutely top quality. Uh, so if their shirts are as good as their stickers,
I'm not worried about that. I mean, if there's some negative feedback or concern about quality,
uh, you know, we'll find about, find out about that in the future, but so far these guys have
been excellent to us. Did you, uh, I'm, I'm, I'm sorry, and I'm on their, I'm on their order page,
and it asks for, uh, what is the name of your image file, and I gave it the one that, uh,
fake Dave posted that, uh, and for the people listening, HPR underscore,
t-e-e-0-1 dot p-n-g. They'll be a link to the show. Yeah, I don't know if the, however,
I don't know if that's, uh, since I'm gone through to the pay page, if that means it's verified,
or if it would come up well, you know, uh, we couldn't find it, so they send you a blank t-shirt,
so maybe call, might be best to call and check that out, or whatever, but it, at least it
didn't cough up a hair bowl in that file name. But, um, I would say call and get just push the
number or whatever the option is for sales and talk to Karen, and I'm trying to get an HPR
account set up there so that when people call in it, they want to order something for HPR,
they'll have the ability to just kind of target what they want. I know Polkies,
oval stickers are in there, and the, um, little bumper sticker thing that Richard designed for us
is there, and now this t-shirt design, so, um, that would be really good for us to, um, you know,
try to get the HPR account set up, and they really have been friendly, and I really enjoyed dealing
with them, and I should have a big stack of those stickers coming to my house, and then another
stack going to, um, not as big, uh, Nell. Do you know, is, uh, is Classus sticker available on
there? He had a little square that said, uh, nosy on, uh, I learned how to be nosy on the inner
webs from HPR. This is something I'm not sure of, and I was kind of wanting to get some copies of
that too, so I'd have a little variety to give out at, uh, um, the Expression Northwest, so,
we'll have to just kind of get together with her and try to get all that together in one
folder, so, you know, it's what they do for ordering that, and so can you put on the website,
so it's easy to get to. They're in, uh, images under H, H, H, H like a public radio,
forward slash images, all that stuff's in there. And, uh, is this the highest resolution the
PNG, or does he have a PDF, or some other file SVG? There's been some back and forth about the
image, you know, and what's there, but what had happened was I had to work with Karen,
and then with Richard also to go through, so they would, they get, they got what they wanted to make
the, um, image real good for their screen printing, and then their actual sticker printing, so I'm
not really sure what's there, and that's why I want to see there be an official place to order
those right out of the website there, so it doesn't accept because if you have something printed,
it isn't up quality, you're not basically in that with that, and that really can be expensive.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah, and the, the trouble is, um, the, the image quality, the resolution
required for a t-shirt or a sticker is so high that you could send them something that looks beautiful
on your screen or even printed on paper and then get it back on a sticker and it looks terrible,
so they, they have a minimum, I believe it's 300 DPI, is their minimum requirement for like a ping file,
but obviously that all can be avoided with a, with an SVG, because that's the scalable image
with, you know, infinite resolution. Okay, I think Dave, you know what you're doing, and if you
don't, uh, Richard does, um, so when you have this sorted, tell us, and we'll get the correct images
and put them on, uh, Hacker Public Radio, our website, which that area should be more public
to us, anyway, there are loads of stickers up there, and if Pokey, if you go up there,
you'll be able to find the link to Platoon's one, which you can, which is actually, uh, a subsection
of a much larger image, and the font users are also included in there, um, so that you can use the
correct font. I'll get together with, with Karen and make sure everything is fine, and Richard's
probably a better resource than I am. I'm, I just know there's pitfalls of this, but I also am, um,
looking to get a coffee cup that would be available, but, um, you know, we'll see how that goes.
Oh man, you're, you're tempting with this stuff. By the way, this book for stickers says, the HPR,
it's in black, um, black background white text, got the HPR logo in the side, on the left hand
side, then in bold letters, the community podcast, underneath that, um, white background, black text,
sharing your ideas, projects, opinions, and then underneath that, new episode every weekday,
and underneath that, HackerPublicRadio.org, and it looks awesome. It does look me like on the site,
they only have, uh, the one, two, three stickers, they only have white t-shirts.
They actually have black with white and Richard designed for bold, so most people that I've
talked to on Google Plus, but let me do this for the bumper sticker, but, um, black with white text,
I just ordered the black with white text. Black with white text looks cool.
The, the bold, that would be my preference too. I'm going to have to call them.
They're brilliant. Speaking of, one thing I'll point out here is, um,
she wasn't all that familiar with Inkscape, so I tried to do a little educating there.
Good man, good man, good man. That's really funny because the guy that I talked to mentioned
Inkscape when I first did, I didn't speak to my, I just emailed back and forth that he had
mentioned it to me. That's, that's weird. Since we're discussing HPR art, uh, if anybody,
any of this is, you know, not cool to mention such a company, but if anybody still has a Tom Tom
GPS, and you know how to safely update the files on your Tom Tom GPS, I've uploaded the HPR logo
to their servers as, as a splash screen so you can search for it and do that. But if you don't know
how to update your Tom Tom already, don't touch it until you, uh, I'll do an HPR on it eventually
because you can break that thing so easy even using the tool that they give you to update it with.
So wait, wait, will you hear that one from me? Okay. Or, or at least just back the thing up first.
Thanks for the warning. I don't have a car, so I rely on the national train service to get me around.
Okay, some events. During the week, uh, sorry, during the month, I got a link from somebody with
that, that had a website and that was opensource.org to all the events that were going on. As,
you know, what a calendar and everything and I cannot find the link. Um, but only two events that I
do know are coming up. Pokey, you're going to the Northeast GNU Linux Fest on March 16th and 17th.
And the Linux Fest's northwest on the 27th of April. And David's going to that one.
And David's going to that one. Yep. And if anybody from this community is going to go to the Northeast
GNU Linux Fest, um, you just get in touch with me because there's a bunch of us. We're, we're going to
be, you know, aside from the Fest itself, where they're, uh, they're like half day events. The,
the Fest is, it's the, for, for two days, out the weekend, but it's a bunch of us getting together.
We're going to go out to eat. Um, I know a nice restaurant right here there and, uh, we'll probably
be hanging out and maybe do some board gaming or some other kind of stuff. So just,
you know, don't, don't be left out in the cold when you know your communities already there. And
there's no reason why you, you know, shouldn't go and hang out with us.
Can also people are going to these Fest? Can you get, uh, or at least try and if you're having
a table, get a copy of the leaflets or something if, if you're on the printed paper so that, uh,
we can scan them and put them up on, uh, HPR so that we have physical evidence that we have contributed
to these events and stuff. Uh, the reason being that if we ever do get to a day where we have a
Wikipedia webpage, which actually shouldn't ever happen because nobody is allowed to edit.
That's right. HPR, or, yeah, HPR is webpage. And, uh, yeah, I'll have to get to you before,
if I find out you're a listener, then you'll be a show. So from that moment on, you're contaminated
and cannot edit our Wikipedia webpage. So I don't, we'll ever get one. But if we do, if you do
are going to these things, if you are going to these things, um, then can you please, um, yeah,
just give us a, if it's on the brochure or something or take a poll or something so that we know
we have physical evidence that you're that, that we have been represented there. We'll do an
extended invitation, 81 to stop by the Winxfest North West, Hacker Public Radio Table also,
and say hello. Super duper. Um, what else have I got on here? Not a lot on my docus. Um,
has anyone got anything else that they want to share with us? Uh, yeah, one thing I got for the, um,
the event thing, uh, I, I'm wondering if anybody likes the idea, would, would we be willing to,
you know, pass it hat around and take up a little collection so that we can add a, um, like a
decent recorder to the conference kit because I, I lost every interview I did last year because
my recorder, um, you heard the one, you heard the one that I published. I didn't lose the recordings,
but they're, the quality of them is so bad, they're unlistenable. Um, so that, you know,
that thing just didn't work, but if we had a real recorder or something that was easy to use,
like one of the H ones or something, um, that we could send around with the conference kit so
that anyone who's willing to do this would, would party and that would be there available to them.
You know, that's something I'm willing to, to throw some money at, but it's, again, it's a thing
that I can't, I can't afford to purchase the whole thing and then just send it off, you know,
yeah, Roger. Not knowing if I'm ever going to see it again, um, which is fine, you know,
whatever, whatever happens to it, but I can't assume the whole cost myself. So if it's something
that, um, folks you're interested in, you know, uh, this, this would be the one for the,
for North America or for the US, like, as, yeah. Um, one thing there, I do have a spare, uh,
brand new Sansa Clip, which I'll send over to you for, no, no, that's, no, that's what I used
last year was the Sansa Clip, and I got one that just, I, I should have tested it first,
I got one. Oh, that's not a bad one. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Well, continue to get that fixed,
because I found my Sansa Clip saved my bots every all time when I forgot to press record.
So yeah, yeah, and, and I make sure you ship one of those with, with the cases, well, yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Good idea. Okay. Yeah. I'll throw, uh, I'll throw a few
chequels your way for that. Well, no, you hang under your chequels for the European
reporter because you're going to need that for your, your confidence kit. Oh, I have one of your,
and I plan to be at every European conference. What?
I'll throw a few quid in talking. I've always wanted to say that. I don't know what a quid is.
Yeah, I don't need to, no, Dave, you've thrown in enough cash. There we go. This is a
nuts save for work episode. Thank you very much Dave. You've rooted for everybody. Are you happy
now? Which are potty mouth? Very good. Oh, man, it could have been kids listening to you say,
quid, Dave. Hi, Jess. Hi, Jess. They should have been warned by camera earlier.
Sorry, I'm pure American.
No, quid is, good is not a naughty word. I heard, I heard on Hacker Public Radio it was.
All right, where did, we got to wrap this up. Where did Sona our wind up? Sona wound up with a
total of, let me see, $9,808. The goal was $20,000, so sadly, we did not meet the full goal.
But happily, this was not a, all or nothing fundraiser. So this on our project did get the $9,808.
Did it, and I'm very happy about that. And 256 people contributed, which I'm also happy about,
several people multiple times. Thanks, Dave. And the fact that Jonathan found maybe some development
partners on the better, better quality voice voter or whatever, did that come out on this show?
Or maybe he was, when he was talking about it on tilt this week, so people might not,
here might not have heard it. So it, it looks like it may not be as expensive for him to, to make
improvements on, and I'm blanking on it, the, the voice that Pokey had so much, yeah, that,
well, it's not exactly Orkuts. It's, it's the voice translation that's based on, but,
I mean, Orkumainly reads the stuff, I mean, it's the part, he speaks, that's what we're, yeah,
to do, to do either replace or improve, he speak. If it wasn't on here, it must have been on
tilt, I heard that there, there's somebody, not, maybe not an open source, but willing to go
open source that, that was working towards that, working towards a, a voice translation program.
So he, I should have, I should have got my, uh, facts better organized, but it sounds like he
may be able to do what he was wanting to do with the money that was collected. That, that, I also,
if I could, I just, I want to thank all the, as much as I'd like to take, you know, HPR take
the credit for it, no, there was lots of podcasts who were putting the word out, lots of people were
blogging about this, we're hitting, you know, G plus and Twitter, you name it, people were putting
the word out. So, I mean, when, when Jonathan and I recorded that show, I think he had the, the,
the fundraiser was up to about $2,500. So, as much as I could say, wow, it was because of that show,
we did that we raised another seven grand, that's not the truth. It was, there was a lot of people
who came together, a lot of community effort, and I, I want to thank all those other podcasts and
bloggers and, and, and, Twitter, Erz, uh, and G plusters as well, that, that it all helped.
Absolutely. I would like to just make the comment though that, uh, I'm a method in one of the other
episodes. There's 256 people who, who actively put their hand in their pocket, and I can understand
that the maybe might be another 256 people who went, look, I don't have the money, or we'll go,
well, I don't want to contribute to that project for one reason or another, but, you know, even if,
whatever about the number of people who listen to our show, and there's probably a lot of crossover
to listen to other shows, and it's been not, he's been on every show, have been pimping it,
and still only 256 people put their hand in the pocket. What, what's wrong? What's, what
we're wrong here, folks? Well, can I have to agree? I don't know what's going on there,
but I do think the project is far more valuable than what, uh, we see for donations.
I mean, I, I, I, go ahead, book. I, which is going to say I'm not sure. I don't, I don't know what
happened. I know that there was, I know that there is, um, or appears to be any way some, some
hard feelings between the sonar project and the, uh, uh, was it Phoenix? No, shoot, I was,
was it? It, it, it seems like they see Sonar as a fork of their own efforts, which I, I don't
think is, is at all what's going on, but, uh, you know, maybe that had something to do with it.
Yeah. Okay. Well, that's fine. I hope not. I hope not. I hope not, but I, I don't know what went
wrong. It's, like I said, the part that breaks my heart is that people don't care that there's,
uh, a giant group of disenfranchised people. It's one thing if you don't know about it, but we
pimped the hell out of this. And I don't mean we HPR, I mean, we, the entire, uh,
unity of, of broadcasters, uh, we, we've pimped the hell out of this thing. And, and then there's still
people who just don't care. And that's, that's the part that, that I find crushing. I mean,
there can't be that many vynics users listening to hacker public radio or we would have an
episode about it and we haven't. So I take that. You know, and okay, and I, um, I've become
comfortable with the idea that only about 10% of people who listen to this show actually contribute
or ever probably will contribute. Um, but that is, that, that doesn't stack up to the number of
people who listen to Linux outlaws, for instance, they have, they follow the stats. There are
no many people listen. And the numbers they were saying over there, it doesn't even begin to,
to be a percentage of, of the number of, uh, the, you know, it's a pathetic, pathetic percentage.
I mean, if you were walking down the street, uh, along a busker, a busker would have a greater
percentage of people, um, throwing them a few quid than that. And it's just shocking to me.
Really is. I, I imagine by busker, you must mean a beggar or a panhandler. No, no, I mean,
somebody, uh, the street musician. Oh, right on. Okay.
Yeah. I was really, I was really sad thinking that I saw where people have gotten an extrovert
amount of money for doing a horror film on there. And then to think that we can't lend someone
a hand who would otherwise need to be productive, except they have this obstacle in their way that
we could help solve that problem. I was really not feeling good about that, but I do feel good
about the fact that this is a pioneer project, and then we've got a good start on it.
Absolutely. Okay. And we'll move on from the obvious, obviously. I'm, you know,
pet peeve about this, but that's fine. Um, one thing, other thing is that is late here.
I'm where I know I'm 59 minutes. Of course, when we move some, since it would be a lot less.
Yeah, we got an hour and 57.
But oh, yeah, I want to say, I, I, the more I'm thinking about Jonathan's approach and I haven't
spoken to him yet about this, but I'm thinking what we actually need is links to be, uh,
to understand JavaScript, you know, one of those, uh, links browsers, uh, e-links or whatever, uh,
to, to be accessible, because we have email, we have everything else. So if we could make
that understand JavaScript, then you could have a command line experience, you know, a better
command line experience on the internet, and that surely would benefit everybody, including,
you know, those of us who, who like to have an SSH session open at work.
It'd be, it'd be. You know, think about it, they, you have an SSH session open or work and, uh,
you know, you can suddenly get access to Gmail better and be on Facebook, not that I would be,
but I do like e-links for the fact that it's clean, there's no, uh, images or whatever,
and if you do get an image, you can right-click another, and it'll come, if you're running an
X session, it'll come up in a browser, or, you know, in your image display program. So you can see
what that image is if you really want to, um, or right-click open in a, in a graphical browser.
And if you, if that's application was more, um, I don't use it that much because, like,
dillow or something like that, that doesn't understand JavaScript very well.
Um, you know, it's becoming less and less useful in today's web.
Make that work, you know?
Um, I have good news for you. Apparently e-links already has the possibility to have a
JavaScript support. And, uh, if I read this correctly, or if you have it compiled with the
JavaScript, uh, LinkedIn, then you, uh, can open e-makes, like escape settings, option manager,
e-c-m-a script, open activates, and then it should work. Or at least that's what I'm seeing from
this Linux question stretch. Could you pull that into the, uh, into this thingy here so that I
can put that into the show notes, please, and you know, you've made me a very happy man.
Okay, folks, unless anybody else has anything else to add to our one of the 24 seconds.
But it's brief. The last thing on our list here is that we need more shows.
And if anybody doesn't know what they need to, or what they can make a show about, they don't
have an idea, but they know that they have the technical capability of recording and uploading
to an FDB server, uh, we have a list of requests for shows. Things, these are topics that people
would really love to hear about. Uh, and I'm going to add a couple of things to that list right
now because I'm a little bit stumped by a couple of things. So I'm going to ask Ken to add these to
the list. I need to know as well. Yes, I will. I need to know about VPN. How do I set up a VPN
to my home network? I tried looking at it. And all I got was a bunch of warnings about why VPN is
too complicated for me. Uh, when I googled for that, so what do I need to know? What do I need to
be aware of? So if somebody could do a how to on VPN, also one in it, scripting, uh, getting
those things to run properly, um, that seems to be a, a pretty big topic that, you know, I've
gone as deep as I can and I'm coming up mostly empty handed or system D, uh, setting that up to,
to get stuff to run. Yes, system D. If somebody could do a show or not, I'd appreciate a big
ton. Yeah. For instance, I've, I've got, you know, some, some stuff on my server that I, it was
not available for my distribution. So I compiled it myself and, and, uh, you know, edited some,
in it scripts to, to make it work. And it's just not starting up when I turn my computer and
start it manually. And I just don't know what I'm doing wrong. And I'm not sure what questions
to ask Google to get it working, right? But as a, for instance, so, you know, if you guys could, uh,
take a look at that list of shows that people are requesting for ideas or if you just want to
get together with a buddy and geek out and, uh, and, and, and post that as a show. I mean, this is,
this is what we're looking for. Well, I'm sure Poke could get an interview with Leonard and, uh,
he could explain system D to us. Yeah. Slippery about the face as well. Well, the interview thing
works a little bit better if you have, if you can understand what the person is saying, if you
have some, some understanding of what's going on. Um, I mean, I'd like, I'd love to hear Nito
interview Leonard because he, he would understand this stuff, uh, uh, you know, better than me.
You know, I could talk to Richard Solomon, for instance, because I understand what he's saying
when he talks about the legal side of stuff. Now, I, I may have gotten some of the stuff wrong as
to how he wanted me to phrase it or whatnot, but I understand the legal side of it, maybe a bit
more than someone who doesn't want to understand the legal side of it. So that was easy for me to do.
And I got another interview coming up, uh, that I've recorded and have, have yet to edit. I'm
almost unediting it. Um, but where I can talk that guy's language too. So that's the way that
that goes. But yeah, an interview to any, anything you like, we need shows for real low guys. We,
we, and, and ladies, we need some help here, keep them hacker public radio alive. Don't let this
thing take ill again, like it did. And remember, the more shows you submit, the less chance
facial 50 has to put this next shot. Yeah. Yeah. That's why I'm shooting right now.
Also, the other way around, if you have a subject and you are not really sure whether or not
it would make a good show for a hacker public radio, Ken, didn't you make a very special page on
HBR for that? Yes, I did actually. I can't find the link. One second. Yeah, I had the same problem,
but I'm sure it would be a good idea to find it and put it in the show notes later.
So it's hacker public radio dot org link will be in the show notes. Will dash my dash show dash
B dash of dash interest dash to dash hackers dot HTML. I think I think yes.
All right, Ken, if you try to close the show now, I won't stop you.
Okay, folks, that's it. That's another episode of hacker public radio. How easy could it be?
You just press the mic. By the way, if you are a bit scared of recording,
we have updated the contribute page. I don't know if I spoke about this last month,
but I've tied it up the, I've tied you up the text of the contribute page a little bit.
So it shows basically how to do they use the phone numbers to record a show, talk to us and
your name and email address. Then we go into just recording with a portable media player,
what you should look for, and a very, very, very basic settings setting for using no dust.
And that's pretty much it folks. Thank you very much for listening. Thank you very much for
contributing all those who contributed to the Sonar project. I really appreciate it,
especially if you, even if you didn't work one of the 256 people who contributed, but did
spread the word, we do appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for all the support
that we get. And thank you very much for doing shows. Now is a good time to send them some shows.
We do appreciate it. And remember tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of hacker public.
Radio. Radio. Radio!
You have been listening to hacker public radio or hacker public radio does our.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker public radio was founded by the digital dot pound and the economical computer cloud.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are crowd-responsive by
lunar pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting
needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a like, lead us our license.
