Episode: 1583
Title: HPR1583: Podcast Generator
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1583/hpr1583.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 05:17:19

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello HBR, this is Stephen Ward, aka
OconDK, I've not contributed for a while and I wanted the bike radius
islands with a neat web app I came across.
When you've done a few episodes of HBR and if you're listening to this I'm
sure you have, prod, prod, then you may be thinking gee this podcasting
like is fun, I'd like to do a show of my own.
But wait, setting up a website via SS feeds is awfully complicated,
what about iTunes, don't they have their own strange tags, I'm tired it's all too hard.
But stop that right now young man slash lady, there's a really simple open source
web app which handles everything for you, it is podcast generator, podcastgen.sauceforge.net.
You just need a server with PHP on it and in five minutes you'll have a website for your podcast.
You upload your podcast files and fill in your show notes and the podcast generator
will handle your RSS and iTunes feeds, you can set up categories which have their own feeds
and there's even an option to embed a player widget for each episode.
You may have to increase the PHP file size limit in order to upload through the browser,
but if your host does too small a limit you can upload via FTP and import the file from there.
As you may have guessed I've started my own podcast using this software,
it's a bit woppy at the moment but you can find it at podcast.bluedriver.com.
I've recorded live using Wivendale playing musical insoludes,
but I have a separate track of my voice so I can release two versions, one for music lovers
and the other for voice fetishists. I hope this episode is useful and you might like to check out
my own podcast. This is Alcott DK signing off. Be seeing you.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution, share a light 3.0 license.
