Episode: 1266
Title: HPR1266: TGTM Newscast for 2013-06-06  by Dann Washko and DeepGeek
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1266/hpr1266.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 22:39:41

---

You're listening to TGTM News, number 99.
We go out for Thursday, June 6, 2013.
You're listening to the Tech Only Hacker Public Radio Edition.
To get the full podcast, including political, commentary, and other controversial topics,
please visit www.talkeakedme.us.
Here are the vials statistics for this program.
Your feedback matters to me.
Please send your comments to dgatdeepgeek.us.
The webpage for this program is at www.talkeakedme.us.
You can subscribe to me on Identica as the username DeepGeek or you could follow me on Twitter.
My username there is dgtgTM as in DeepGeek Talk Geek to me.
This is Dan Washco and now the Tech Roundup.
From democracynow.org, computer hacker Jeremy Hammond pleads guilty and strat for a case.
The computer hacker Jeremy Hammond has pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy for hacking
into the computers of the private intelligence firm Stratford.
Facing of the prospect of decades behind bars on a number of computer fraud charges, Hammond
admitted to being a member of a group anonymous and to steal files from Stratford.
As well as other government and corporate sites, some 5 million Stratford emails ended
up on the whistle blowing website WikiLeaks, shedding light on how the private intelligence
firm monitors activists and spies for corporate clients.
In a statement, Hammond said he accepted the plea deal in part to avoid an overzealous
prosecution that could have resulted in at least 30 years in prison.
He has already served 15 months including weeks in solitary confinement.
With the hacking of Stratford, Hammond said, I did this because I believe people have
a right to know what governments and corporations are doing behind closed doors.
From torrentfreak.com, Pirate Bay founder denies hacking charges in court by handy.
Appearing in court for a second week, Godfrey's Forthome says he had no part in hacking
Swedish IT company logica.
The Pirate Bay founder denies being the person behind chat logs presented as evidence
by the prosecution and maintains that other individuals who he doesn't want to name had
access to his computers, either physically or via remote access.
Prosecutor Heinrich Olin described this weed statement as not credible.
Early April, prosecutor Henry Olin of the International Public Prosecution Office in
Stockholm announced that Godfrey's Forthome had been charged with several hacking related
offenses, including serious fraud, attempted aggravated fraud, and aiding attempted aggravated
fraud.
The charges relate to the hacking of logica, a Swedish IT company working with local tax
authorities.
Much of the prosecution's evidence was obtained from a computer seized from Godfrey when
he was detained last year in Cambodia.
Last week, the Pirate Bay founder and a 38-year-old from Dalna went on trial in the Stockholm
District Court, and after a fairly quiet first few days, more information is now coming
out of the courtroom.
Godfrey denies the charges and presented with evidence found on his computer.
He said that someone else must have gained access while he was in Cambodia.
He denied fleeing there to avoid his Pirate Bay-related jail sentence, and said the move was simply
because he was no longer a big fan of Sweden.
Both of the computers were lab computers for software development, Godfrey, said, adding
that they were accessible by others both physically at his home and remotely via the internet.
I had a fairly large apartment and a lot of people have been there, so it's possible,
but personally I think it happened by remote control, he said.
Just in a blue shirt, the 28-year-old said he had no interest in mainframe computers
such as Logica, describing them as big and boring stuff and boring places.
Prosecutor Henry Olen presented chat logs in which he claimed that Godfrey'd, and as
yet unnamed 36-year-old, communicated, but that assertion was rejected.
It is not me who wrote that Godfrey told the court, having previously noted that his
co-defendant is just as casual acquaintance.
The Pirate Bay founder agreed that he had occasionally used an online alias mentioned by the
prosecution, but said that the same name had also been used by up to half a dozen other
people.
He is not credible, prosecutor Henry Olen told Swedish media during a break in proceedings.
If you look at the person Godfrey Swarthom is, why would he have allowed others to use
his computer to that extent?
The case continues.
From tornfreak.com by Ernesto, FBI must return Kim.com's illegally seized property.
The New Zealand High Court has ordered the police to inspect all digital information
illegally seized last year from Kim.com's mansion, and return everything not directly related
to the ongoing prosecution.
The judge further ruled that the FBI must ship back clone drives that were sent to them,
and destroy all copies the U.S. government has archived.
Last year, the search warrants used by police to raid the New Zealand home of mega-upload
founder Kim.com were all ruled to be overbroad and illegal.
In addition, clone copies of .com's hard drives sent to the FBI were deemed to have been
unlawfully obtained.
Under the ruling, .com's legal team asked the court to order the return of .com's personal
belongings, and in ruling today, Judge Helen Winkleman did just that.
New Zealand police are now required to go through all illegally seized evidence to determine
what is relevant to the ongoing prosecution and to return the rest.
In a ruling, Judge Winkleman rejected the argument that the police made only a minor
mistake resulting from a technical error in the FBI requested seizure.
The deficiencies in the warrants and, as it consequence, the searches were more than merely
technical.
And quote, she said, quote, the defects in the warrants were such that the warrants were
null- null- null- null- null- null- null- null- null- null- null- null- null- null- null- null- null- null
and quote.
Quote, the warrants could not authorize the permanent seizure of hard drives and digital
materials against the possibility that they might contain relevant material with no obligation
to check them for relevance.
End quote, Winkleman added.
In addition, the Dutch notes that the Warns did not permit the police to ship 150 terabytes
of data to the FBI.
Quote, they could not authorize the shipping offshore of those hard drives with no check
to see if they contain relevant material, nor could they authorize keeping the plaintiffs
out of their own information, including information irrelevant to the offenses.
The clone drives holding personal information must therefore be returned and any copies
in the FBI's position must be destroyed.
His high court's decision is yet another blow to the prosecution, while the dot-com team
can chalk up another win.
From EFF.org, EFF launches full-core press the bus podcasting patent.
Campaign will use crowd power and new law to validate patent trolls claims.
The patent trolls have gone far enough.
Starting today, the Electronic Frontier Foundation is mounting a new focused campaign,
the bus the dangerous patent at a Texas company has been using to shake down podcasters.
EFF intends to challenge the original grant at the patent before the U.S. patent and
trademark office by proving that the company personal audio did not really invent anything
new.
Claiming it owns the patent that broadly covers podcasting technology, personal audio
is the classic example of a patent troll that neither makes nor sells anything, but uses
its patent as a weapon to threaten lawsuits and extort settlement-funded fees.
The particular troll has bullied prominent podcasters and podcasts, including how stuff
works in Adam Corolla, in addition to smaller podcasters working out of their own homes.
Quote, patent trolls have been wrecking havoc on innovative companies for some time now,
end quote says EFF staff attorney Julia Samuels, who also holds the Mark Cuban share to
eliminate stupid patents.
Quote, but this particular breed of troll targeting end users, small businesses, startups,
and even individuals like podcasters for simply using everyday products is disturbing
new threat end quote.
EFF is partnering with the cyber law clinic at Harvard's Beckham Center for Internet
and Society to use a new legal tool against this patent called the Interparts Review, which
was introduced by the American Invents Act.
The first step is to identify prior art or published examples of similar or identical
ideas that existed before October 2, 1996.
EFF is putting out a call today to the podcasting community, to spread the word and help us collect
the prior art we need to fight this dangerous patent.
EFF is also looking for financial support to take on this challenge, which even with
pro bono help likely costs nearly $30,000.
Quote, a podcaster working out of a garage is unlikely to have the financial resources
to fight a lawsuit, and quote said EFF staff attorney Daniel Naser.
Quote, patent trolls like personal audio know this and use the threat of ruinous litigation
costs as a weapon.
Defeating this patent at the PTO would put an end to personal audio's campaign, end quote.
Because of the deep and systemic problems in the American patent system, EFF is spearheading
the Defend Innovation Project to advocate for reform.
EFF is asking the public to sign on to our petition as a DefendInnovation.org and
to comment on seven recommended proposals we think would make the broken system work
better or for software.
In the meantime, EFF is doing its best to rid the world of one of more bad patents in
the hands of patent trolls and help out podcasters who find themselves staring down the barrel
of a gun.
For more on Save the Podcasting Campaign, check out EFF.org Deep Links 2013-05, Help Saving
Podcasts.
Actually go to the article in the show notes and it will give you the link to the Save
Podcasting Campaign and for more technical details to search for prior art, there's
a link in there also.
And to donate to the fund of this campaign, there's a link there too.
From democracynow.org, NSA hacking unit targets computers worldwide.
New details have emerged about a secretive unit inside the National Security Agency called
Tailored Access Operations that hacks in the foreign computers to conduct cyber espionage.
According to a Bloomberg Business Week article titled How the US Government Hacks the World,
the Pentagon hackers harvest nearly 2.1 million gigabytes every hour.
That is the equivalent of hundreds of millions of pages of text.
For years, the NSA did not acknowledge the unit's existence, but a Pentagon official
confirmed the unit conducts what it calls computer network exploitation.
The US cyber spies have also developed methods to obscure their attacks or disguise themselves
as something else, such as hackers from China.
Other headlines?
Berlin company specializes in autistic IT experts.
For those headlines, head on over to the website and see the show notes.
Staff been produced by the TGTM News Team, Editorial Selection by Deep Geek.
Views of the story authors reflect their own opinions and not necessarily those of TGTM
news.
From Techdirt.com, TheStand.org, and Maggie McNeil, Wordpress.com, used under a range
permission.
News from Care.com is a press release.
News from TorrentFreak.com, Saxistorg.ca, F-P-I-F.org, and E-F-F.org, used under permission
of the Creative Commons by Attribution of License.
News from DemocracyNow.org, used under permission of the Creative Commons by Attribution, non-commercial
no derivatives license.
News sources retain their respective copyrights.
Thank you for listening to this episode of Talk Geek to Me.
Here are the vials statistics for this program.
Your feedback matters to me, please send your comments to DG at deepgeek.us.
The webpage for this program is at www.talkgeektoMe.us.
You can subscribe to me on Identica as the username DeepGeek or you could follow me on Twitter.
My username there is DG-T-G-T-M, as in DeepGeek, Talk Geek to Me.
This episode of Talk Geek to Me is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution Share
like 3.0 on Port License.
This license allows commercial reuse of the work, as well as allowing you to modify the
work, so long as you share a like the same rights you have received under this license.
Thank you for listening to this episode of Talk Geek to Me.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio where Hacker Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on the day through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it
really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicum Computer
Club.
Hacker Public Radio is founded by the Binary Revolution at BinRef.com, all BinRef projects
are crowd-responsive by Linner Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinnerPages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a Creative Commons Attribution Share
Alive 3.0 license.
