Episode: 1564
Title: HPR1564: An Open Source News Break from Opensource.com
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1564/hpr1564.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 05:07:50

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hey there Hacker Public Radio, semiotic robotic here with
another open source news break from OpenSource.com.
We recently featured a compelling article by Sean Powers, a Linux specialist and trainer
for CBT Nuggets.
Powers describes a rare and valuable creature, the sought after Linux professional.
Powers tracks the recent explosion of interest in hiring Linux systems administrators and
offers readers some insight into the source of the increase.
According to Powers, Linux provides organizations a valuable type of flexibility.
But not in ways you might initially assume.
Sure, I mean, Linux is flexible, he writes.
But more than that, Linux systems administrators are flexible.
Powers suggest that Linux experts are most adept at transitioning homegrown software solutions
to the cloud platforms that are becoming more prominent.
Next, I should draw your attention to an open science article by community moderator
and leader of the Open Chemistry Project Marcus Hanwell.
Hanwell reports on a new scientific journal that turns the traditional academic publishing
process on its head.
It's called F1000 Research and it completely reverses the standard relationship between
publication and peer review by making articles available online for free even before they've
invented by others.
Hanwell explains that, quote, most journals do not publish until after peer review has been
completed, which can take several months or more.
The peer review process at F1000 Research is also open.
The journal publishes reviewers' names alongside the papers they critique.
Visitors to the F1000 Research website, f1000research.com, can easily scan the review history for any academic
manuscript.
The site also licenses open data sets using a Creative Commons public domain dedication.
Finally, in our life channel is an article by Alice Williamson, a postdoctoral research
associate at the University of Sydney who is currently working on the open source malaria
team, a group of scientists searching for a cure for malaria and doing it the open source
way.
Williamson explains how the team conducts research according to the six laws of open science
and uses electronic lab notebooks or ELN to record all experimental data.
As Williamson writes, quote, all data, results, and conclusions are posted in real time, even
when things don't quite turn out as planned.
OSM members process and upload their raw data to their ELNs, then other scientists can
compare their data to them, or draw conclusions that differ from those of the OSM team.
Williamson concludes by discussing the importance of open science principles to the search for
a malaria cure, saying, quote, open science removes the traditional hierarchy of research
and encourages scientists of all levels, student or professor to engage and contribute.
That's all for today's newsbreak.
As usual, you'll find links to the stories I've discussed in the show notes for this
episode.
And don't forget that you can submit your stories to opensource.com.
This visit opensource.com slash participate for more details.
This is semiotic robotic, signing off by wishing you peace, love, and open source.
Create a comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
