Episode: 1893
Title: HPR1893: My LastPass Alternative
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1893/hpr1893.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 10:52:33

---

This is HPR Episode 1893 entitled, My Last Pass alternative, and in part of the series,
Privacy and Security, it is hosted by Toujet, and in about 4 minutes long, the summary
of how I do password management among my devices.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code, HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair, at An Honesthost.com.
Hey, this is Toujet again, calling in for another hacker public radio recording.
Although it's been going on lightly with Last Pass, I decided to go ahead and post my
solution for what I'm doing for a password management.
I'm currently using key pass, but I've got an interesting combination of components
working together to make it work.
First of all, I downloaded key pass from, it's actually in the repost for Fridoras, so
I was using it from there.
Took my passwords from Last Pass, exported them, imported them into key pass, and got that
working.
I wanted to be able to do more than just have a simple task manager on there.
I have multiple devices, both Android and Windows and Linux that I have to keep in sync.
I took the Last Pass database and I put it into a own cloud folder that's synced between
my devices.
Did run into a little quirk with that where I can't launch the desktop client on login because
I need to give time for own cloud to go ahead and sync.
I also need to exit the Last Pass before I close the machine, otherwise it will not sync
the database.
Along with having it sync to the different clients, I'm using a couple of add-ins for Firefox.
I'm using Passy Fox, which allows me to integrate similar to Last Pass with the way I'm working.
I did run into with Passy Fox that I had to re-enable saving passwords because Passy Fox
actually replaces Firefox's password manager with its own.
If you have saved passwords turned off, it won't ask you to save it.
For Chrome, I use Chrome iPass to sync between the different to do a similar functionality
in there.
I also wanted to be able to access it on my Android devices.
In Eftroid, there is a key pass for Android that you can download from Eftroid.
It allows you to automatically sync or access passwords on your mobile device.
I'm using the own cloud client on my device to also keep that password at sync on there,
so I've got the same password at all of them.
But I also often have to log in as a machine that does not have my tools installed, and
I don't want to go through installing or copying down the database or setting up a sync
or anything like that.
I wanted something real simple and straightforward.
I found an utility called Browser Pass.
It's a web page or a set of scripts that allow you to access your Last Pass database from
a browser.
Since I'm already running a home server with own cloud on it, adding another service on
there to support Browser Pass was easy enough.
Since it's on the same trouble, I can actually, or a server I can actually link from Browser
Pass over to the folder or file I have synced from own cloud.
It keeps everything all on a server that I can access any place.
I've got my server secured with SSL, so I feel relatively safe using that.
It's not quite as smooth an integration as everything with Last Pass, but it works great
for everything I need to do, and it's everything under my control.
Look forward to hearing comments from people on this.
Email me if you have any questions, and I'll have links for all the different applications
in the show notes.
Thanks.
You've been listening to HackerPublicRadio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
HackerPublicRadio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution,
share a life, 3.0 license.
