Episode: 1788
Title: HPR1788: Podcrawl Glasgow 2015
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1788/hpr1788.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 09:20:24

---

This is HPR Episode 1788 entitled Pondcrawl Glasgow 2015.
It is hosted by Kevin and is about 33 minutes long.
The summer is Maymoris and Kevin have a yarn about the upcoming event Pondcrawl Glasgow 2015.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Thank you very much for watching this episode of HPR15.
Drink, drink, drink, drink, drink with me, drink to the pirates of the sea,
Drink, drink, drink, drink with me, drink to the glory of victory.
Oh beautiful lady, come bring me more whiskey, I know nothing will hurt me until the morning comes.
Drink, drink, drink, drink with me, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink, drink, drink, drink with me, drink to the glory of victory.
Oh beautiful lady, come bring me more whiskey, I know nothing will hurt me until the morning comes.
Drink, drink, drink, drink, drink with me, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink, drink, drink, drink with me, drink to the glory of victory.
Drink, drink, drink, drink, drink with me, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea,
Oh beautiful lady, come for me more with me and stay closer to me my love, the night is about to end.
Drink, drink, drink, drink with me, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink, drink, drink, drink with me, drink to the glory of victory.
Drink, drink, drink, drink with me, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink, drink, drink, drink, drink with me, drink to the glory of victory.
Drink, drink, drink, drink, drink with me, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink
to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea, drink to the pirates of the sea
of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the
sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of
of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of the sea of
the Netherlands so this
For now I think that most of this sell and sell the website
full
in relation to Buchanan Street bus station, Queen Street station and central.
But if you know Glasgow somewhat, then the best way to describe it is if you walk along,
if you're heading out to the city, if you're on Sochi Hall Street and you start heading
out to the city, then you go beyond the pedestrianized area of Sochi Hall Street, keep on
going down until you see a bar with loads and loads of flags outside it, that's called
the campus bar.
As you see that, take a lift and you're at the state bar, so it's very easy to find.
That sounds pretty good, yeah.
I'm not a great frequent visitor to Glasgow myself, but I sort of got the general gist
of where things are.
I live in Edinburgh as I know you know, but to other people know, which is 50 miles or
so up the road, so I'm hoping to get the train in and then walk to the bar for six o'clock.
And so I don't think it's a particularly difficult area to get to, it's one of the sort of
main arterial streets of Glasgow itself, so hopefully I won't be swunging around.
I hope I'm lost, where's the state bar, so hopefully see you there, yeah, so we're meeting
at six and then are we staying there, is that we're going to be in that same bar for the rest
of the evening, how's it going to go?
Oh, well, we don't plan to be.
Last year we tried a few different ones, but let's just get this scenario first with the
state bar.
If it's, well, if the cracks create and people are saying to us, oh yeah, you know, we're
coming to meet you, we're going to be in the state bar, etc, then we will stay because it's
a very good bar.
Now, I must admit, we're going to get this first off, first out of the way, right?
If you're a cloud bar, if you like handling the tequila, etc, you probably isn't for you
this.
We're not exactly teeny bulpers.
The places will be visiting will be kind of real ale bars, bars which sell decent beer
and probably not so much where the hipsters go.
Maybe the people who wear hipsters kind of 20 odd years ago, but maybe not quite so much
now, but that doesn't mean you have to be able to join in.
It just means that we're going at a slightly slower pace of life.
We like to take our, we like to sip and enjoy the drinks and actually get the taste of
the beer, and make it down in five seconds and hope for the effect quickly.
It sounds like my sort of a pod crawl, pub crawl, nice and leisurely and a chance for a
bit of chat and so on, yeah.
What about, to people normally eat before they come along or is their food in the bar?
Do you know?
I don't think that it's food in the bar, but to be honest, I'm not sure, I've never
eaten in the state because usually when I'm in there, it's a bit of lethal and very often
they've got gigs and things down the stairs.
They've got acoustic sessions, they've got a small bar that's kind of dedicated to that.
So I've never actually eaten.
However, last year, myself and Andrew, we discovered a very good chippy just around the
corner where we actually got, we thought of the enjoyed eating some chips before we suddenly
realized, hey, this beer should affect us very quickly if we don't eat something.
To be honest, I think this year we had to leave the state rather quickly last year because
of that, because we were running late and had indeed, and after two beers, we thought,
oh, this is going to affect us rather quickly unless we eat something.
So I would recommend eating something before you reach the state bar.
Yeah, yeah, that sounds good and six o'clock's a pretty good time to grab something to
eat before meeting up, so yeah, that sounds good, that sounds good.
So if you move, move on, last year, did you move around very much?
Yes, we moved a few different bars, depending on how much we actually liked the place,
would depend how much we stayed.
We went to a place called the Raven, which I think, I think it was aiming at maybe a bit
young for us.
We were shouting across the table at each other.
We were, I mean, there was a good idea of beers, but they were sadly those beers that kind
of hurt your teeth when you drank them, they were super chilled.
And I remember saying, I feel like a real old get here, but as is the beers too cold,
the music's too late, and I can't hear what anybody else is saying.
So we didn't see that.
But what we did do was we did, we made a hashtag and we'll use it again this year, a hashtag
pod crawl Glasgow, and we'll use that across the different sites now because I've actually
got a client now that'll cross post, I'll what I'll do is I'll post it on to GNU Social
and Twitter.
I'm not on Facebook, but if anybody who is on Facebook wants to post it without hashtag
them, they're more than welcome.
So if you think, yeah, I'm coming, but I'm going to be a bit late, try looking at a hashtag
pod crawl Glasgow just to see, that's all one long word, just to see where we are.
Yeah, that sounds good.
That sounds good.
Yeah.
Yeah, it comes in a little bit late, and we've moved, and that's an important thing to
be able to do, isn't it?
So are we expecting, oh, the one thing I was going to ask you about, not that I'm going
to be bringing my children with me, but in case anybody's thinking of bringing theirs,
it's not really that sort of a get together, I think, is it?
No, not at all.
And to be fair, this is really aimed at people outside of Scotland, because I know the
culture is certainly in mainland Europe, and in a lot of parts of England is family and
children are welcome in bars, as long as they're accompanied by a parent.
That's not the case in Scotland.
Most bars won't even allow children in after seven o'clock, and even before seven, most
of them actually aren't that accommodating for children that actually stay outside, nobody
under 18 is to be admitted.
So if you're coming along, and if you want to bring the family along for the weekend,
that's fine, but really I would not recommend you taking them along for the pod crawl itself,
because I doubt you'll get in to many places.
I think that's just, that's maybe a Scottish thing, that's down to the nature of bars in
Scotland, but they are not family, family friendly places, or not that they'll be completely
hostile to families, but just they won't allow you, allow people in.
So if you're taking up the family, I would certainly recommend your partner comes with
you, so that only one of you attends a pod crawl, otherwise I don't think it's safe
for young children to be hanging around outside bars and glass going off right in
it.
No.
I believe you've got a yay from one person who a lot of people might know, and that's
Andrew Gregory, so we're expecting him to come and join us, is that right?
Yes, in fact, I was really pleased to hear you're there on Twitter, I asked all the members,
but I'm sure I remember when I spoke to Andrew Gregory before him, seeing that the
rest of the Linux voice podcasters aren't really drinkers at all, so he was fairly unlikely
that they did that I've, but I had, I'd asked him age snitch school, would you be joining
us for pod crawl?
And I never heard anything back, and then recently I got a reply from Andrew Gregory, saying,
yes, I'll be there, sorry, so late, I just had to confirm that, that I had to confirm
my answer was going to be accurate, I was looking with what, what are we talking about
here? So of course, I looked at the conversation, and he was replying to my, are you coming
to pod crawl?
So certainly those of us in the Linux community need, he needs no introduction.
Andrew Gregory is co-host of the Linux voice, and he was previously co-host of the Tux
radar podcast, he had previously been one of the writers for Linux format, and now he's
one of the writers for Linux voice, so certainly a big name in the open source and podcasting
world.
That's great, yes, yeah, it would be, I've not actually met him, he was at Ogcamp last
year, I did speak to some of the other Linux voice guys, but they were so busy, they
were so hard to speak to them all, but they all seem like really, really friendly guys,
so I'll be looking forward to meeting Andrew, I hope he manages to make it.
Oh yes indeed, certainly, now of course we were talking here from our Linux point of view,
but you don't have to be a Linux geek to enjoy this, really, we're trying to aim it
at as many people as we can, just people with an interest in maybe podcasting, or open
source, or general computer, or even music, I mean, if you're a band member in like that,
really please come along, because that's what we're all about, supporting the little guy
and also getting people interested in things like Linux and open source.
So please, if you feel like you, oh, I'm in the area and I wouldn't mind coming, but
I'm not a podcaster, please don't let that put you off.
No, that's great, it would be, I'm looking at it, thinking that it's maybe going to be like
a sort of lug in a way where people can come along and ask about stuff and chat about stuff,
and just generally mix in and see what the what the people are like and what goes on,
and hoping it's going to be that sort of thing, and many people will be tempted to come along and
join in, that will be really good. Oh, yes, yes, indeed. It's, I really do hope that it does go
down that route. Now, one thing that is maybe worth pointing out is that certainly, unless you're
on the website, you don't know what either of us look like. So we've figured that way around
that as well, because I'm not going to start describing myself. However, both myself and Andrew
will be waiting t-shirts, black t-shirts, with the pod crawl logo on the tuxjam logo on the front,
but on the back, I'm going to be waiting, no surprise, Kevin, and Andrew will be waiting
McNally. So we should be able to actually identify us. So rather than going up, hello,
this is the pod crawl, hello, hello, you with the pod crawl, just look for the guys with the
with the names on the back of the t-shirts. It's black t-shirts with orange writing, so it kind of
stands out. Are you going to put an image of that on the on the website? I think you did that
last year, did you? Oh, did I? Oh, I can do, that's not a problem. That's essentially the same
t-shirt. I just use a different supplier this time. The badges are a bit smaller, but apart from
that, they're pretty much identical. Yeah, no, it was just a thought in case people are not entirely
clear what that looked like from your your description. But yeah, black with the orange writing on
the back should be a giveaway at all. All right, okay, okay. It's just just old fools like me that
might get to get it wrong. But yeah, I'm glad you mentioned that because I hadn't quite thought
that bit through and I'd probably been there in the bar thinking, well, yeah, okay, but who am I
looking for? I've done this before. And that's sort of gone, gone round in a rather embarrassed way
saying, excuse me, are you? It's whoever. So that's great. Thank you. Yes, well, I just thought I'd
like to clarify that. So yes, so essentially, as we said, it's now it's going to be we're just
going to go on till the night fizzles out to be perfectly honest. Like last year, the the night
kind of fizzled out for us because there wasn't enough for a lot. There was a small group and one
had to go get a train and the other guy was kind of wanting to be semi semi better for the next
morning. So he decided he was also going to head off. So myself and Andrew, we went into one
other bar and oh my word, it was way too trendy for us, but it was only bad open. I think at midnight,
just about midnight, that we could find. And the beer was that bad. The place was that push,
we just think, no, we're heading home for that enough. So it to be honest, it does depend on how
many people turn up and how long people stay that we're not saying it's between six and 12 or six
and three in the morning, although I'm pretty sure I won't be going to three in the morning
personally. So I think I'll be flagging well before that if I make it that far. So yeah,
that's that sounds good. It sounds very civilized. I'm looking forward to it. Oh yes, well,
what surprised me was I mean, when I go to Glasgow, I don't get a lot of time to walk around. So
if it's usually short shorts, didn't say get down there. So I've made a point of knowing the bars
I like. And the one thing that really shocked me was the two people from who were there from
Glasgow last year, both were saying, right, Kevin, where do we go next? Where do we go next?
You're kidding, right? This is your city. And you're saying, where do we go next to me? An island.
We would actually quite like to hear of some other bars. We're perfectly honest because
I've got my own view that I go around. And we ended up in the port still last year, which
everybody really enjoyed. I think to be honest, we got too comfortable in there. I think we spent
most of the night after we'd left the state and then we'll have to rave. And I think we're at
someone else in between as well. And then we ended up the port still. And it was just, I think it was
just a good way to come. But it was a very, very good night. Thirdly enjoyed it. And let's see if
we can break our record because we had a visitor last year from Mexico. So Marcus, Marcus vegan. So
we were widening them up saying that he's going to have changed his name after visiting Scotland
and drinking her beer. He was going to have to change his name to capitalist carnival.
I wonder if that happened. I can't imagine so. I can't imagine so to be perfectly honest.
But it'll be interesting to see if we could get anybody from even further a field. That would be
very interesting. Well, if Andrew Gregor is heading up from England, I'm not sure exactly where,
somewhere in the north of England, I think. And hopefully there will be others who feel that
that wouldn't be too much of a trek to get up to Glasgow. It's pretty easy by road and by rail.
So it's a good place for us all to meet, I think. Yes. And it is centralized. Plus on top in here,
like some of myself, it's, you know, I can fly and Glasgow does have a pretty decent
dateboard where it gets both international and domestic flights. So that was one of the main
reasons for choosing it because it's very centralized location. And it's much easier to get to
even than Edinburgh, which seems crazy, given it's a capital, but it seems far easier to get to
Glasgow from most places. Yeah, Edinburgh is a lower unto itself, I'm afraid. You know, so it's a
way to a good place and all. But yeah, Glasgow's more things that happen in a suspect.
Yes, well, it's certainly where this year's pod crawl will be happening. And I for one,
I'm really looking forward to it. So that's going to be the 10th of July as a Friday. And
hey, just mean to say that you only have to come up one. I mean, it certainly could be an
option to meet up the next day. I wish I could remember the name now. That's going to be a bit
embarrassing. There is a place that myself and Andrew are going to visit. Is it Graham Brown?
Something like that. It's just along from Queens Street Station and they specialize in
Malt Whiskeys and cigars. So we're like, yes, we're definitely going to visit there. So that might
also be a worthwhile trick if you're coming up this far. So you're heading back home on the
on the Saturday, then, Kevin? No, I've got family as well in Glasgow and I'm going to go visit them,
but I'm going to go visit them after I've sobered up a wee bit. But you'd be around Saturday
morning if people are still so hanging, hanging around it, still have taken a hotel. I might
be doing that myself as why I'm asking. Oh, yes, yes, I'll be around. Oh, yes, I'll be around
Saturday and around somewhere. I'm not saying I'm going to go for a pint on Saturday. I
don't think, but I certainly will take a visit into the centre or wherever around where people are.
Because yeah, the last thing we want to do is people to appear for the pod for the pod crawl and
then end up just going away and being felt a been felt left isolated. Because I know it's not
exactly the best of here. And as a place you don't know, and you've maybe got a train
later on that day, you might not want to venture too far. So yes, we certainly will offer
also entertainment on the Saturday too, but that's the unofficial pod crawl entertainment.
Okay, that sounds good. Right, so is there anything you think I've missed out?
I don't think so. You've answered all my questions, so hopefully that's
between us. We've managed to cover pretty much everything. I can't certainly kind of think of
anything else. No, the only thing I was just thinking about was be weary because Glasgow is
actually quite well sprayed out. So unless you want to spend taxi after a bit of time on taxis,
you might want to double check where, if you book a hotel, where it is. I think I'd say I'd
tell everybody. I mean, certainly if you want, like, so somebody asked me for the cheapest
to tell in Glasgow, and I would probably say one of the cheapest is the E-tap hotel.
There are chain and there are no frills chain. It's £30 for your room for the night. That's it,
but three people can sleep in the room. But your biggest problem there is you are going to need to get
a taxi into the centre and back out of it. So it's kind of that kingdom key there. So again,
just be weary. You know, I mean, if you're going to spend less on somewhere that's going to be in
the outskirts, just consider how much is the taxi going to be an is it worth maybe spending a
£10 extra a night to avoid the taxi fare. Yeah, that's a good point. That's a good point. You don't,
I suppose it's maybe not the best question to ask if you haven't really thought about it, but you
haven't got any between you and Andrew, any sort of suggestions for hotels around in the area,
have you? No, I see this is a problem. I've got loads of relatives in Glasgow, so my suggestions
would tend to be their spare rooms or couches. And I don't think that they'd be too happy with random
strangers appearing. It's called couch serving. What are you talking about? Yeah, I can appreciate that,
but I don't think they would. Oh, yeah, yeah, you have to sign up to it, don't you? You can't be
volunteered for it by somebody else. No, no, I've got that wrong somehow. Yes, that's it. So like I
said, I mean, to be honest, I've stayed in hotels in Glasgow maybe less than a handful of times
in my life. I mean, I just know we had full up a whole hand if I could sit at you at times of
stayed in a hotel. So, sorry, hotel in Glasgow. So even if I was to advise you, I wouldn't be
much use because I don't think any of them have been in the last 15 years, probably even 20 or
years. So any advice I'd give you might be very, very old. But there's certainly is plenty of
ones. I mean, there's the good thing about Glasgow is there's a good variety because I know that
there's a place, a few places in the city centre that cater for budget. But of course, you know,
you can't exactly expect an awful lot. I think there are some even that will go as low as the
ETAP at 30 per night, but I don't think that's per per room. I think that is per person.
You could go a hostel, I'd say that's even cheaper. Again, the one thing I'd say about a hostel
read the reviews on things like TripAdvisor because hostels in Scotland very much are split into two
types of hostel. You've got a hostel that, I mean, they're all open to the public. Anybody can
look in, but you've got hostels that are for kind of genuine backpackers, but you've also got hostels
attend to be a bit closer to homeless shelter. So just be a wee bit wary of that. Just read up on it
just because you might end up, I gotta describe it, been in one that is not maybe aimed at the
public, should I say. I mean, I know a certain other one place like that in Stornerway,
and it always gets terrible reviews on TripAdvisor saying, this place is awful. Why does anybody go
there? And you feel like saying, it's a homeless shelter, actually. Oh, yes, that wouldn't be a good
good mistake to make, could it? No, not at all. So this is one thing I'd say is check on things
like TripAdvisor, and if it's just a case of a few people glumbling about that, you know,
the staff didn't serve in the right shape of survey, then you're okay. If you're concerned,
just people sleeping in the hallway corridor all the time, then you might be thinking, yeah,
that's maybe not the best option.
Right, and so I think that's us. So all that's left is, oh yeah, get in touch. If anybody wants to
get in touch, then please do. If you've got any questions on this, then you can get in touch with
me. Now what I'm going to do is I do the, the tux jam podcast myself and Andrew, and I'm just
going to give out that email address. So if you want to get in touch, please contact tuxjamatunseenstudio.co.uk.
And if you want to leave us a message on social media, then again, please do so. I'm on Twitter,
I'm at kevi kevi. So at kevi 49, and I'm also on GNU social, I'm also at kevi, and I'm on
micro.fragdev.com. So I think that's the best way. I know that Andrew's at Mcnaaloo on both
micro.fragdev.com and also on Twitter. So you can get in contact with us either way there.
Okay, so that we're finishing off with a, with a bit of music called very, very appropriately.
Drink beer till the day that I die by Daisy May.
It's good for you. I'm empty, hanging, and I'm filled with what I'm going to drink till the day that I die.
Shut the bell, down my throat. I'm empty, hiding, I'm alone, but I'm going to try.
Till the day that I die.
I'm hiding, I'll kill shelter, and my loaded drinks.
I'm crying out for your help. Stop me from missing you.
No, six drugs working wrong.
My man had left me on the front of Scotland, so I'll keep on drinking till the day that I die.
I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty,
I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty, I'm empty,
I'm hiding, I'll kill shelter and my loaded drinks,
I'm crying out for your help, stop me from me, see me here
Tell me, dear, why did it is to you?
Well, you'll come home and I'll help me with this food
But if you don't, I'll dream
Till the day that I die
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio as Hacker Public Radio.org
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution and being revved of comm
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, Share Like, 3.0 license
