Episode: 1901
Title: HPR1901: Instaling Linux programs without internet
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1901/hpr1901.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 10:57:41

---

This is HPR episode 1901 entitled Installing Linux Program without internet.
It is hosted by Swift 110 and is about 5 minutes long.
The summary is, I install Supertux Cut at home on my PC.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello, this is Swift 110.
I thought I would go ahead and give you guys instructions on how to install programs
that you download into Linux.
In this case will be installing Supertux Cut.
I downloaded it from the appropriate website and once I had it in my, I made a special
folder called Games and once it was there, I went ahead and extracted the folder to Games.
Once I went to that particular folder, I went directly inside of that folder and go back
just a bit.
I'm actually going through this while I'm talking to you and I went to bin64.
Opened up that particular folder and then Supertux Cut is there.
Now you could just click on Supertux Cut, play the game without even installing it,
but I want to actually install it.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to go up to where I have my menu and what I do is I right-click
menu and then I go to edit menu and by the way, I'm on Linux Mint 17.2 and I'm using the
Mate desktop. This will be a little more specialized and you might be expecting, but this will,
it may just very well work for you as well, whatever version of Linux you're using, especially if it's
based on Debian or Ubuntu, then hopefully this will work for you as well.
I have to try it later on and see if it works in Integros, which is based on Arch Linux.
Now you'll get your main menu and what you want to do on the very left-hand side is go to Games.
Under Games, you want to add to the right of that box and go to New Item.
It has a plus sign on there. Click on New Item and once you click on New Item, it'll say it'll be
like a little box where you can type what it says Create Launcher. You'll see the word type,
Application, Name, SuperTuxCart. Then go to the word Browse and then from Browse, you'll go to the
appropriate folder. In this case, I went to Downloads and then I go to Games and then I go to SuperTuxCart
and then I go to Bin-64. I right-click, yeah, actually left-click, SuperTuxCart, then it open.
From that point on, it's added to my regular menu and now I'm able to launch it without a problem at all.
So I've been able to do this before at home and they worked out pretty well.
Actually, but what I did was actually drag the icon up to my panel because I always create a
top panel. She would want to be rude and interrupt my recording. Who cares?
So, okay, shut up. Okay, we get it. She's going to keep talking.
You might want to listen to her. She's going to get on my nerves.
Shut up. Okay, so I have it in Salt and it's in my menu. I pretty much forget what I was about to say.
It's okay. It's not the first and not the last time that's going to ever happen to me.
So let's see if I have Blender installed. Blender 2.75. I really want Gimp on here as well. So
what I'll do is I'll go to the website
because I want the latest version on my laptop with Linux Mint. So I go to downloads
and see the only thing is that it doesn't want to just give me a package to download them from.
And I'm not feeling it. But pretty much this is how to go ahead and edit your menus and install
programs that are depth files. Thank you and have a good day.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the
Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have
comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on
creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
