Episode: 1111
Title: HPR1111: HPR Community News October 2012
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1111/hpr1111.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 19:14:32

---

Hello everybody, my name is Ken Phon, this is now the third time that we've started this
because, uh, partly my brain is some working. So, uh, I'd like to introduce, uh, everybody
who's joined. Hi, I'm Peanubra aka Bobobex. Oh, I'm cool, none of them. Hello, I am
Epi-canus and let me repeat that, it's Epi-canus and not Epi-canus. Never get fouled.
It never gets old. Howdy folks, it's 5150 and you have to bear with me today. I've got a cold,
so I may be interrupted by coughing. And we also have, uh, John and I was a listener. Um,
let's move on through the, um, show, the summary of the shows that was going on. Um, 10,
8, 6 was, the HPR community news, and I love really to say about that, that we had another
one of cities interview from, uh, Foscan, and there's a few more of them in the queue ready to come up.
We also had a show from, uh, Hookah from Panglican 2012, and that was followed by, um, a Sky SQL
talk about, um, Mariah DB, which was as the GNU Linux Fest, North East. The running off the
week was a deep geek news that was 1090. Following, we started off with a, one of our big contributors
here to Hacke of Public Radio Dave, unfortunately, can't be with us tonight. Wasn't this also his
first one, Ken? It was, yes, actually, it was, but he's done a massive amount for us on the
behind the scenes, so, um, it was nice to see him, uh, come up. And you know what, this, this episode
for me was, I've been using them for years, and I had no idea that plugins were even possible.
Yeah, I must admit, I was really surprised that this was his sort of first one, because he went
into so much detail, and it was, and it was obvious that he was so knowledgeable about this subject.
That, it's, it's always a pleasure to hear, um, from Dave, actually, I'm glad he's on the call,
Arias and on the comfort world. He called tonight because, uh, and I can waffle on about
how brilliant he is. No matter what topic it comes up, he, he seems to be at least a,
a expert in it, or at least been very modestly, very knowledgeable about the topics. So, I've,
I'm trying to control him to do a missing episode one, two, and three of this series,
but to bring us all up to the level where we know that Vim actually has plugins.
Yeah, I would, I was very impressed by this, and I, I don't spend, uh,
well, I, I used to use Vi in college, but, uh, I'm, I'm afraid I've
forgotten everything I knew about it, and I've dropped back to, uh, NANO as my
CLI editor of Choice, usually, but, uh, this, this made me, uh, think about, uh,
getting back into it, and it's, uh, I would just say Dave, he was caught to ask in his level,
college and authority on the subject. And, uh, give higher praise than that indeed.
Um, the following day we had Mr Gadgets with, uh, 1092 Ham Radio, the regional tech geek
passion, and Mr Gadgets, I am very cross with Mr Gadgets, because I heard on other podcasts,
as they have been having, um, uh, they've been talking to each other, and I have a long standing
request out for, um, uh, Ham Radio guys to do a HPR episode over at Radio, I think that
will be the coolest thing out. Well, Mr Gadgets, you want me to show, dude?
Yeah, the thing I was amazed to learn over it that you can, that they have the bandwidth to do
actual streaming video now, because I, uh, uh, when you still have a local computer club,
one of the guys was a ham, and he would, he just had like a gif, uh, uh, of his little,
little, that he made for himself and the, the mnemonic for his, uh, uh, for, for his, uh, letters.
And, but he would talk about slow scan radio and how they could transfer it from computer to
computer, but it was, it was just like this little gif and it took like half an hour at that time.
So the, somewhere, somewhere the bandwidth must have really opened up in the last 20 years.
Yeah, it's, uh, again, I, I, I'm constantly fighting the urge to have another hobby, and I think
this, uh, this one would be so easy when you're living, uh, few meters under sea level at the
best of times, it would be so easy to justify this one. What we need is in case disaster or something
like that. Um, okay, moving on. Uh, 1093 was separation of presentation from, uh, content,
office offer, uh, who, again, couldn't agree more, absolutely, couldn't not agree more. In fact,
I think half the people who use word processors, word processors, have no clue how to use them in
the first place. Yeah, this has really made me think a lot, uh, because usually my show notes,
I just do them in Libra office and do a save as HTML, and I'm thinking, uh, you're going, I'm going
kind of cross purposes on, on the tags doing it that way. Even if I had the tags right in, in, uh,
in Libra office, probably saving it as HTML is going, is going to lose them. So I, I, I'm going to
try to make an effort on ones I haven't, uh, in the queue to fit to finish up or, uh, you know,
the ones I still haven't submitted yet to see if I can't do the show notes, the way he suggested
over from scratch using, uh, uh, using an HTML tool from the beginning.
For me, uh, it was quite interesting actually bearing in mind some of the conversation that's been
on the mailing list this month, around contributing show notes. Well, the, the show notes, yeah,
it's a bit, bit of a discussion, um, getting show notes at all is fine, is great, is actually fantastic
because it saves me happen to do them. That's not to say if you send in a show, we're
very, very, very, uh, walk those are very, very welcome. And it's not that big a problem to do
the show notes. The only thing is it adds a bit of a delay because if there's no show notes,
then obviously I need to put it on to YMP3 pair on my alg player and, um, and just listen to it so
that I can then do the show notes, which brings a delay, of course. So, um, then the next day we had
and, uh, at 9.4, Nenix Beer and Who Cares. This was an episode by Barrier Brown,
uh, who I need to apologize for, too, because this was stuck in the queue I, I had understood that
it was an episode from 5150. And as such, I scheduled it as an episode for 5150, um, and it was
obviously an episode by Barrier Brown once you listen to it, but, um, my apologies go out to both
of you guys and Red War, of course, as all for, um, not scheduling that correctly. Well, though you
should have some slack 5150 for not telling me sooner. Well, I did submit it at Barrier Brown
Dash, linear and Who Cares, but I had forgotten at the time that, uh, you know, actually, I'm not sure
by one of this is his, his first one because we've discussed later today. Don't you remember? I
wanted it to go under you because, uh, he has some, uh, couple projects he's mentioned that he
wanted to, when he finally did him, he wanted to throw up in the, in the queue first is his,
is his first one. So by pointing that out, uh, but, uh, like I said, it's between between us
actually doing this last spring and be getting, uh, getting the audio from him and me adding the
little explanation to the end and, and the intro and outro, that was probably at least a month.
And, uh, and, you know, anything that we discuss that night, if you've listened to the
episode about who should take credit and all that when we recorded it, I was probably
somewhat foggy on that in the first place the next day. And so, you know, but I think, I think
really my, my saying, oh, that's a buyer episode and let's, you know, let's, uh, uh, and I,
I did, uh, uh, that it might be eligible for being bumped up. I think he, you know, he's,
he might actually be mad at me for, well, not mad at me, but he's like, no, I want to do another
one later and get bumped to the top. Is Sam by a brown, a radio DJ? What does he podcast a lot?
He is on, uh, other shows he does the DistraWatch Weekly podcast and if he's not a DJ, he should be.
I was just going to say because for me listening, he was what I would associate being a typical,
radio DJ, the voice, you know, it's very, um, about suitable for radio.
Well, I think he'll be, he'll be very, uh, flattered to hear you say that. I think he,
he works for a cable company right now, but I, I do think he has some experience in, uh, video and
audio production. He definitely has natural charm and you definitely had, um, the kind of voice
that you just, you just want to listen to him. He's interesting. He's got the right amount of
inflection in his voice and he sells what, um, he's talking about, you know, you want to listen.
So I thought it was really good. Yeah, fantastic episode. And when he does submit his own show,
we should bump it up. But I mean, this here is a difficult one in general for queuing and,
and Epicanos has just, he's working on a submission page, which we'll, we'll talk about later on,
but it will, it's always difficult because if there are multiple shows, shows and around table,
what I will do is I'll look in and see is one of those shows already on the system. And if they are,
well, you know, they're the one who gets the main credit for it and the rest, you know, are added
in those by lines. And then they, um, in the upcoming system, we will have the ability within,
within the, um, atom feed to have person who kind of responsible for posting the show and then
the contributors underneath that. So, uh, I'm not really sure what the best way to approach that
because they in a, in a show like Dev random, if they bring on a new host every time,
that will mean that that new host is a new contributor to HPR, so they get dumped to the top of the
queue, even though it's submitted by the same person the whole time. So anyway, it's one to think
about and discuss later on. Let's move on with, uh, 1095, which was talking to me news. And the
following Monday, we had Frank Bell with, uh, key pass X. And this is a, uh, quite a, quite a cool
application I didn't know that much about. Other than it's a, um, there was an episode of HPR
way before, and I know that, as it's the one that all the spammers, uh, like to use. So, um, I was,
that was kind of cool. And the following day, we had a cyber union podcast, which is, uh,
surprise, probably no one was submitted by, uh, DeepGeek. And it was a interesting, interesting
to hear about that, uh, that, uh, other podcast. And then, uh, we had a strange lady,
submitted a, my journey to Geekdom, which is in the long tradition of how I got into Linux,
how I got into podcasting, how I became a geek. And, uh, it was Becky Weldon. It was a fantastic
show. I'm, uh, I must say, I really did, did enjoy that. I enjoyed the whole, we were taping
top of the pops thing. That really, uh, that really was, uh, quite funny. Thank you.
Do you know, she did that in one take as well. I was well impressed.
Born natural, that we expect more shows from her in the, uh, future, definitely.
Yeah, it's one of the few episodes I got to hear this month, and it was actually pretty good.
I liked it. Thank you very much. I did, I must admit, I did enjoy it. I enjoyed it more than I
thought I did. I think I was stressing too much about what to talk about.
Yeah, they, they, they, how I got into Linux thing, how I became a geek, how I got to
group podcasting is always a great introduction. One, and people, people genuinely like to hear
everybody's, uh, particular story and, yeah, two. Now, the next one was, um, compilers part two,
and, um, where we all, uh, I, this is an excellent series. Um, I really hope that, um, Dave
was making some show notes for these cause, uh, he, um, he does listen to these, and I
find it very interesting, but find myself struggling to follow along with a lot of the terminology.
I don't know, uh, maybe, uh, many of you guys are familiar with compilers and their ins and outs.
So if you are, this is a definite listen. Okay, and she's very knowledgeable, isn't she?
Oh, sorry, I'm assuming she, yes, yes. Yeah, no, she, uh, gained lots of details, but she keeps
these really short as well, which is nice. It's bite-sized chunks. Yeah, I don't think he, I don't
think my brain will be capable of handling, um, that, uh, in a, like an hour-long episode. I,
I listen, you're really intently for a short period of time and then it shows over and,
okay, I think I may have got something out of that, like, that it was in a
cocktail party where a pilot, you know, about that ever goes cocktail parties or anything,
but where compilers were being discussed, you know, I'd be able to hold my own for a moment or two
while I, quickly. I think, I think the only thing I would comment, though, is, I think,
doesn't she do them over some background music? And I sometimes find the background music a little
bit distracting. Yeah, yeah, that's been mentioned in the show notes, but she has had, um,
the three of them submitted before the feedback has come into her. So, uh, we'll see if, um,
she does that. And then we had episode 100, oh, and I need to add to my apologies, um, or the feed.
There was a beat mix up there with, um, I think it was 5150s, uh, show, somehow got truncated by
our, um, script. What actually happened was the outro for some reason, um, was not in line with
the, it was encoded differently or somehow. And then when I passed it through socks, socks,
just, but no, thanks very much. And then just produced a show where everything was
located. So, um, a little bit of work needs to be done on our side with the encoding and stuff,
but we will also be discussing that later on. And anyway, Mr. Gadget's episode was, uh,
I titled it why Android Tabletsuck and, unfortunately, the notes are not as detailed as I would like
for that, but I will be updating them. So, uh, then, uh, 5150, yes, recovery of an encrypted drive
and an Ubuntu system. This, I will be bookmarking. I met a mental note to myself that,
to know exactly which, uh, which at least podcast I heard this on because I know this will happen
to me on stage. Well, I, since, since this happened to me, and I actually recorded several months
after I took the notes, uh, when I sat down and did some new podcasts, but, uh, yeah, I was thinking
of you when this happened because you, uh, can you've always been a big advocate of using the built-in
encryption, uh, and, uh, this, this isn't the first time I've seen it go, uh, belly up on a system,
at least at least this time it was recoverable, where if you did a whole drive encryption,
I'm not sure if there's any way to get it back, but, uh, that, once, once I learned how to do it,
it was relatively trivial, just time consuming, but, yeah, I want, I said, I said, man, I'm,
I'm gonna bring that up to Ken when, uh, when we get to it. Um, yeah, I'm very glad you did. I do
use, uh, whole drive encryption for the most part. I've started using encrypted file, um,
base systems now for, um, for, for thinking my stuff to the cloud. So I mount my drive to cloud,
and then I use a further encrypted drive on top of that so that every file, you can see a
directory structure and a file structure, but the directory structure and the file structure
themselves are both, uh, cryptid forms, like, yes, that's a, that's a nice one to have. I might do an
episode on that too sometime. Um, the following day we had, oh yes, door to door geek, uh, with speech
impediments, and you know that, you know that part in all the field good movies were, um, uh,
all the students stand up and start uploading. I really was doing that at the end of this episode.
Yeah, I agree. I think this was a great, great side. This is probably one I need to listen to.
Yeah. Um, yeah, you basically just, it was a heart to heart about, uh, you know,
living with speech impediments and basically I grew with a man, a buddy who, uh,
likes somebody off for having a speech impediment as a dick. There you go. Yeah. Yeah, I must have
met, I did think initially we're going to get a full on rant about it. And you know, like,
you're sort of sat there listening, almost cringing for him, but I think, yeah, the way he held it
together and how he's taken the different steps to actually improve his speech impediment,
you know, with his podcasting five times now, a week, you know, and just constantly,
you know, looking at ways of improving it. I think it's exciting too, because he, he sounds
better than a lot of people that, uh, don't have a speech impediment. Yeah, that's right. There was
like no ums. There was no ahs. There was hardly any ticking over any of the words. I mean, I,
I think I would have struggled to actually have known that he had a speech impediment.
Right. I mean, I, I've been looking forward to listening to this one. I'm sorry to say I
haven't got to it yet, but well, I, I think especially in, in talking about tech topics,
and I'm having perhaps completely detailed notes in front of us. I, I've had that experience
that you, you, you get to the technical term and you know what it is, and it escapes you right
at that moment, and it's, you wind up saying, and uh, yeah, uh, the thing that does the thing, and,
and, you know, so imagine, imagine that being everything, and, and, or, well, I don't know what's
everything, but I mean, you know, you, well, I've been on a cast with Doran and, uh, and, uh, and
watched him struggle with that, and, uh, it, uh, I agree, he's been very brave to talk about it.
And, uh, yeah, he, uh, yeah, it's, it's just amazing. It's, it's, it's fantastic. That he is so
knowledgeable and is such a force for, you know, good within the, the podcasting community, and
here he is fighting this, not, you know, not accepting it. Yeah, inspiration. It's, I love these
show, these, these inspirational shows, and, uh, yeah, it's really good. Okay, enough said, moving
on. Um, taught from us in defense of media free toleration. Wow, what an episode this was. I
actually had to really listen to this, because, um, it was, uh, divided up into very, very nice
different chunks, and, uh, it was almost, uh, was minding me quite a lot of, um, lost and Bronx,
it was more a theater production than, uh, an episode, very, very well done. Congratulations,
that we count us on, on this episode. Yeah, guys, just didn't know when to shut up, though,
it just on and on and on. Yeah, fine, HPR. We've, we have had three and a half hour shows, no big deal.
We've had 11 hour shows, no big deal. We're gonna get another one this year. Yeah, 24 hour,
one on New Year's Eve. Yeah, I don't know if people are still up for that. We'll have to see.
I've taken the day off work. Fantastic. Well, well, it's you and me then. That'll be grand.
No egg not for you. Um, but there you go. Back to this episode. Fantastic, brilliant, uh, taught,
taught for walking right off the bat. And also you, uh, you really did put me in the place.
I've always had the attitude, well, here in Europe, we don't have to worry about the MP3 thing,
and then a big slap on the face for that. And, uh, yes, there is patents or at least requirements
for, for them here in Europe as well. So with that in mind, I would like to highlight the fact that we
have, um, more, we have highlighted the fact that we support AUG speaks an MP3. There are now
AUG speaks and MP3 links in every episode. And in addition to that on our syndication page,
which is our RSS page, we have links promoting the AUG and speaks feed as our favorite formats.
And then we have on to the MP3 feed, we have a link to the patenting convert, um, run down there
as Wikipedia. And, uh, I also, um, got email during the month from, uh, Mordass, Mord, M-O-R-D-A-N-C-Y,
MordD-A-N-C, about the fact that we don't have, uh, we didn't have a full, um, MP3,
uh, sorry, speaks an AUG feed, the full, uh, massive gigabyte one. Well, I was working on them,
and then I decided to stop working on it, and then, um, the reason for that was I wanted to switch
to AUG feeds, but I'm sorry, um, atom feeds. But, and they're also discussion about FLAQ as well
this month. Yeah, that's, well, that's a different thing. We want to ever be providing a FLAQ feed,
um, that was just for the, for the input. We need to talk about that as well, actually, in the show.
Um, so it's eventually an opposite. Yes, yes, I want to talk to you about that as well,
and discussions, the technical discussions about these audio formats as, uh, Bobobex pointed out,
um, should really go to, um, the dev, you know, the dev mailing list, which we will discuss there.
Um, probably just to touch on it now, they, um, upload rather than having people, having to
encode the MP3, the AUG and the AUG or the speaks feed or whatever. We are suggesting that you upload
one file with the media, and then we will transcode it from that file. If you have access to a good
quality version of that file, and then please send it to us in, in FLAQ, ideally,
encoded with dash dash best, or a wild file if you can't, or, you know, one of the highly encoded
AUG or MP3, or MP3, will basically send us the best file you have, and if you have a choice,
send us the, uh, FLAQ file encoded with dash dash best, that's, that's over same with the upload.
Yeah, it might, uh, and what comes appropriate, uh, I think it'd be a good idea if we gave,
gave some examples on the website, or maybe if you recorded a podcast, can point that this is
where to find, uh, those encoding settings and say Audacity, because I'm going to imagine that
most people who record their podcast in front of the computer, that's probably the biggest common
denominator of what folks use, maybe, maybe for some of the, uh, other popular recording and editing
programs, uh, they also put examples in there for that, because I know how to do FLAQ, but I,
I'd, I'd have to, I'd have to go look for the settings for the dash best. Yeah, definitely do that,
if, uh, if we decide that that's the way we want to go, um, I intend to put that into the how to,
at least, for Audacity, and ideally, what I'd like is, um, have, you know, something like a video on
the website, welcome to HPR, here's how you can record a show, you pick up the phone, and you do the
phone thing, but one of these, you know, Sansa clips, you can do it this way, or if you've got a phone,
you can do it this way. Um, but that's definitely something that we should, we should, let's, uh,
let's move on with a, um, with the shows, then come back to this during the course of the discussion
of the, on the mailing list, are okay? Sounds good. Okay. Um, then syndicated Thursday, we had
jam episode 15, and that is, uh, that is a, um, show that's, um, Kevin. Yep, that's Kevin,
who is, you might know, from other podcasts, such as good events, wanted to give him some love
that we had, uh, talk to me news, do geek, and then on another 5150 episode, this is the one that
got truncated for some strange reason. Um, Farmer buys Adele, which was a classic episode,
actually, you just described my living room table. I'm glad you enjoyed that one, Ken, and I
didn't want to apologize for that one in the, in the previous one, because, uh, when, when the,
uh, recovery one came out, Pokey was on our cash plant the next day, saying, well, what'd you do
to it? And what, what had happened when I was, uh, I was trying to get as small as I could,
and it's, it seemed to me that the removed silences settings, not dusty, were not
aggressive as I would have liked, and I went, I went way too far, and probably when I was doing my
umhunts, when you're, when you're, when you're, when you're zoomed in, really, really close on the
way file, uh, those, those gaps between words look a lot bigger than they actually are. So on, on
the, the two that I submitted this month, that, that's why they sound a little strange that
I was far too aggressive, uh, removing the silences, uh, between words. And when I, that's,
that's really my first step in my editing process. And, uh, when I was in audacity and playing
just short clips back to myself, I swear it sounded fine in there, but I didn't pick it up until
the next day that I, that I've, uh, done the remove silences, done the, under leveling, done the
compression, had it all done and, and, uh, listening to it on my, uh, Sansa Clip, and then, then it
really showed up, perhaps because it was, uh, lesser quality, uh, reproduction method, but, uh,
by that time I was just, uh, I was up against it on time and, and went ahead and threw them up
there as they were. So if, if it's a little hard to listen to for anybody, uh, I apologize.
No, it was fine. I didn't notice anything wrong with the, uh, with the audio itself.
The most memorable bit of this, um, as I say, for me was the, uh, squeeze pocket intro.
Did you do that yourself, 50 or 50? No, no, no, that was, uh, uh, Mr. X, uh, he submitted it that
way. Oh, he's, he submitted it. It was part of his submission for, uh, episode 1,000.
And I thought, you know, I knew he was Scottish, uh, uh, uh, I implored others.
I thought it was a, uh, bad type, uh, when he was talking over, but he said, no, that, that's, uh,
that's an accordion. I asked him for a, uh, uh, uh, that, uh, just the music separately, and he,
and he obliged. And I also uploaded that to the FTP. So you could, you should have it,
Ian, uh, if you ever want to post it on the site, it's not as an alternate.
Sorry, it's under media. If you do hack-a-puppet radio, forward slash media, you'll get it.
It was definitely unexpected when I heard it. It's been used, it's been used a few times, actually.
So, uh, 5150, I'll take it, you've never been subjected to actual backpipes.
Well, my ancestors were.
Ha-ha-ha-ha.
The, uh, if anybody, by the way, wants to submit, uh, uh, versions of the, uh, intro or outro, please
feel free to do that. Then, uh, moving on, the following day was Compilers Part 3, from
C-Club, and, uh, then we had Mike Hingley with second episode, I think, what's in my bag?
This is another one that, uh, David started, actually, was a rundown of his text off.
And, uh, a lot of, a lot of kids, actually, I felt like, mm, I think I want to go mug this guy.
Don't muck him for the broken eye, but that you got from his wife.
Ah, that's true. And then the next day was a, um, Astrakhan 2012, virtues of the open source,
uh, telephony platform. And this one was another one where, um, it was, uh, Suns of Man,
one who was a post already, um, although I didn't catch that because I did a straight grip,
um, including the one, and his, uh, handle is, uh, without the one. And, uh, it was, uh, it was a,
it was a sort of roundtable report, specific or recorded for Hacker Public Radio,
but he had posted on his website and the current rules, say that if it's a poster on your website,
whatever, but anyway, it came out, um, on the syndicated Thursday day. So this is one of the
weird ones that, um, provides interesting edge case when, when trying to decide how to schedule it.
Um, and we'll be talking more about the whole schedule, I think, but it was a, it was a very good
episode. They had Alas and the voice of Astrak's actually on the show. And, uh, there's a good
history of, of, you know, what you can do and, and things. And I actually heard the door-to-door geek
and another podcast talking about getting Astrak's running on a raspberry pie, actually. So, pretty cool
there. And the following day, probably people haven't heard it yet because it was just released
yesterday was, uh, uh, uh, who, uh, con decay, who we all have to congratulate. He has just become
a father of a little baby girl. Um, so big congratulations to him. Um, then on the Doctor Who
Restoration team, absolutely, absolutely fascinating what they're doing and, uh, the whole
episode. I, I always download the show twice. Once, uh, speed it up doubly and just once as a regular
show. So I can, uh, the regular one is just so I can confirm the MP3 works. And the Oggfeed,
I speed up twice. And this one I actually listened to, to both. So I could get everything.
This just fascinating. I listened to this today while I was making the Christmas cake in the
kitchen. And whilst I do consider myself a Doctor Who fan, I wasn't aware, actually, it was some
of the detail that they'd gone into the fans to actually recreate some of the lost episodes,
you know, taking photographs of screen captures. Yeah, it's, uh, apparently that guy was taking
those photographs and they had the original audio, but they didn't have the, um, the, the film,
but because they had a photograph of the episode, they were able to draw cartoon, you know,
make an animation of what the episode was about and recreate the whole lot. Absolutely fascinating
the level of commitment to something like that. Yeah, and again, when they've also used CGI
um, you know, to make some of the episodes better, you know, where you wouldn't have had that
originally. Yeah, I'm debating whether that's a good thing or not, because you lose a lot of the
original charm of it if you go back and, you know, put 3D, uh, CGI in. Well, it was never good
when Star Wars did it, didn't it? Well, that was part of the charm of the whole, the whole thing was
that it was, you know, pretty clunky. Yeah, I don't know, maybe. Anyway, that's a rundown of the
episode, folks. Thank you very much. Nothing else happened on the mailing list at all. It was very quiet.
lawyer. Oh my god, you can go months and months and months. Nothing's on the trash rack in
mailing list and then all of a sudden we've had bobex come on with a, uh, our first, uh,
this seems very quiet. It's the mailing list dead. And then it started, but no. Yeah, I'm really
sorry about that. It obviously was not, uh, it was obviously not your fault. Uh, uh,
and indeed it was nobody's fault. Um, for people who have managed to make it this far into the show,
what, uh, what essentially has happened, um, and you'll realize that, um, when you're listening to
to some of the episodes that 5150 contributed, he contributed, um, quite a lot of episodes
among go or, you know, in the short space of time when they got added to the queue and the queue has
been processed according to the rules. Um, except for the fire brown, but I mean,
sometimes you have edge cases so that could have happened anyway. Um, and, um, so what you had
this month was a lot of shows that have been a long time in the queue and they're referring to
events that had happened in the past, not just a little bit in the past, quite a lot in the past.
So the question, uh, 5150, um, prompted, you know, I don't know, 50, if you want to, um, you want to
say, you know, what happens basically, there's more shows than you. Well, essentially can put on
the mailing list, uh, you know, hey, we, we, we need to get some more shows produced, uh, that the,
queues running towards end. There were a couple things. One thing I didn't realize that, uh, sort of,
sort of the stopper been pulled out of the tub as far as the queue because, yeah, we, it's starting
to get closer to critical right now, getting down with the, uh, uh, original content. Well,
I shouldn't say, original content shows, uh, ones who don't fall into a specific category,
syndicated or, uh, shows produced exclusively for HPR. Right. And there, and there are some,
some of the stuff that, that's not to say it to syndicated aren't and, uh, some of the other,
love other series ones are, are produced for, uh, for HPR, but, uh, I got, I get, I guess from
saying I responded on the mailing list, can, you know, I have had three shows plus two that I
would, that I participated in as syndicated or, or, uh, well, the buyer brown, you know, under,
trying to get on buyer brown's name. And, and one syndicated one I participated in, I said,
I gave you five shows four months ago and they've been sitting there at the bottom of the queue
ever since. And I meant it to be a little more lighthearted than I came off. And, and Roy, I,
I, I want to apologize once again. I was kind of specific in my response, uh, as to which ones I
thought that, uh, had, had been on and were, were, uh, at least part, part of them, uh, were
available on other sites about the same time. And I think there was some other ones I was confused
about what, that they were exclusive content, uh, for, for HPR that wasn't available other places.
And I, I, the, well, the, the full circle stuff. I thought it was just re-edited for HPR. And I,
I guess my understanding now is that that material is, is exclusive to HPR. But, uh, I was,
I was kind of a little point, uh, a little pointed on what I thought that, hey, we've been running
these other things and it's created a bottleneck that, uh, the regular shows can't get through.
And now we're at the point where, and this, this, this, I've contributed stuff and it's been
there for months and then, and now Ken wants more, which is, you know, I know was not specifically
directed at me to, yes, 5150, we need you to make more shows. Uh, so like I said, I, I, I, I, I was
more, uh, abrupt or, or not as tactful in my response as I would have liked to. I still,
I still a minute to be right-hearted as a joke, you know, hey, you know, I gave you, you know,
there's, there's still still my stuff sitting there. So that, that's, and it kind, like I said,
it kind of blew up from there. Yeah, no, but what you did highlight is, first of all, there's no
absolutely no need to apologize for, um, making comments at all about that, especially the, the
Byer Brown one being stuck in the queue, if there was any doubt about the, the scheduling room
stuff being followed, but to give some people some background about what's actually going on,
when you submit a show to Hacker Public Radio, if you go to Hacker Public Radio.org for
such calendar.php, you'll see a webpage on there and you have, um, a list of the upcoming shows
followed by that you have the schedule slots that are reserved and then you have the scheduling
rules. Now, at the moment, we follow the scheduling rules as described there, which means that
regardless of whether it's me or Pokey or Clatu or anybody else who posts the show,
the shows will come out in the same order. So, um, admittedly, everybody can make mistakes about,
you know, is this round table, you know, a show, a new show or is it's whatever, but we can discuss
that, um, apart from that, but for rely in large, 99.9% of the shows should follow the rules.
And those are, at the moment, time critical shows, which are, um, a host has requested a particular
slot, um, or it contains a newsworthy information. So, things like that where we have used it in the
past has been, uh, for the Yuri Gigeron 50, 50th episode or episode 1000, uh, we wanted to reserve a
particular day, um, and, you know, April, our April full stop traditionally goes out on a particular
day. So that's, that's that one. And we have schedule slots and I want to come back to that
in a minute. And we had the new hosts who get bumped in the top of the queue,
their new bit of bottom boom, uh, posted a show and it comes out shortly and it encourages people to come
in. And then it's HPR content. So this is content produced for HPR that's not released anywhere,
or if it is released anywhere, it's released after it's been uploaded to our, our FTP server.
And that's done on the first come first serve basis. Now, the whole point of, uh, the schedule slots,
let's, uh, let's have a look through those. We have, um, the first Monday of the month is this
show, which is HPR community news. It is again, HPR only content. It's not released anywhere else.
It is for HPR only. Um, so therefore, you know, that that's, it's just a day where we, you know,
where people who might be accessing the website, we get to talk about what's going on on the
HPR community, bringing you that information. So I think that's valid. We have on the web page,
the first Thursday of every month is just on the morning list review, which is not correct. We've
already, um, informed them that we will no, we will no longer be syndicating their show, nothing,
nothing personal. It's just that we had a lot of requests from other podcasts to get on and
it wasn't fair on them. They know to them when Sunday morning news review had their own slots.
But, you know, absolutely, we promoted them for a while. And then now they're their own,
they're their own show with a fantastic fan base. So we have every Thursday, we have
syndicated Thursday, which is talks and other works of note. And this, uh, was put in specifically
because we don't get enough shows ourselves. We do not have enough shows, contributed
to our public radio to be able to feed five shows a week. And essentially the big discussion that
went on was, um, was surrounding this, um, in that in order to limit the number of, uh, in order
to still produce five shows a day, um, what we, sorry, five shows. Thank you, Bob, Bob X.
In order to produce five shows a week, what we have done is essentially restricted the output.
So that is three shows a week in actual fact that we, uh, produce because one of them is syndicated
the Thursday. And the other one is, um, Tolkien to me news. Now, Tolkien to me news is, uh, a show
that is syndicated, um, and is actually falls outside kind of the, um, the regular, the rules
actually a little bit in that when it started off, um, deep geek was, and still is a regular
contributor to Hacker Public Radio as a host. And he produces a tech-only, um, version of his show
for Hacker Public Radio, which is, uh, basically just edits out the other parts and puts it in.
And that has been vital for us in keeping the flow of shows going so that we would be able to
produce the amount of shows that we needed, especially in, uh, the ramp up from last year in 2011.
We had quite a lot of difficulty in getting shows onto the network. And by quite a lot of difficulty,
what I mean is I would go on and email Klatu and say Klatu and each shows and Klatu would,
would supply a show or in the morning, there would be one show left and I would record two shows
that day, um, for release and then beg people to send in shows and we were constantly wasting resources
on Hacker Public Radio for just getting shows, nothing else, just, just feeding the shows in.
As a stopgap measure, syndicated Thursday, took off the pressure a bit and, and a talk geek to
me news also took the pressure off because now we're releasing three shows a week instead of five.
Well, I guess again for the record again, I was never questioning, uh, the syndicated Thursday,
or, or, uh, talk geek to me, uh, but there was a, but unfortunately I think that, uh, there were,
there were a lot of fest related shows or not, not unfortunately, but, uh, especially,
especially the Northeast and I don't, I don't want to, uh, I try not to offend Jonathan,
they do on this, but I'm just, uh, but it, you know, Pokey was there and he kind of brought the,
brought those, uh, those, uh, talks to us, uh, uh, uh, recordings of the talks from the
fest, but it's my, my understanding that they were also, well, I know they were published about
the same time, uh, over on, uh, frost media and I think the idea was that they over here on HPR,
they would get a, a, a, a wider, uh, audience and, but it, it did create like a, uh, a two-week
bottleneck in, in holding back other shows and I was, yeah, I was sort of questioning, uh, you know,
I loved hearing all those, but I already downloaded them off, off of, uh, frostcast,
so that maybe we, my, my thought of doing one or two of those and then said, you like this content,
you know, this, this is over, this is over there on Frostcast and my, you know, actually driven
some, uh, some people, uh, over to Jonathan Sight, uh, but I guess without that, you know, it's kind
of a narrow thing, but there were a few, and I'm not questioning any of your stuff, Ken, that you,
that you did for, uh, from, um, uh, AgCamp, yeah, that, that was great. And like you say,
it was, like it says, timely and that, you know, that it was all new content, I'm not questioning
that and the only other thing that was really questioning was, uh, was finishing up last
years all camp stuff for, uh, for, uh, from, uh, see, here I am, this is one of these times, I can't,
I can't think of the, but I thought that stuff they were already bought, had already been broadcast
on, on that other network. And am I right in saying that they, they do their own shows and then
the stuff that they do for us is completely different. No, no, um, actually there's a few things
there that were not exactly correct. The talks for the, um, for the FES, and all the talks,
also the AgCampons, they went out on the syndicated Thursday days. So there were, there were,
there were, there were recordings from, um, AgCamp, which were recorded only for HPR by myself,
and they happened to kind of, and there's still some more of them, um, to go out, but they will go out
on regular days because they were regular, uh, shows recorded by a regular host. They were in the
queue and they're following the rules of the queue. Everything that has happened has been following
the rules of the queue. They shows from, um, Jonathan, Nadu's Fest have been going out on the syndicated
Thursday day. So if you follow the, the rules, whether they were there or not, wouldn't have
affected whether, uh, your shows or anybody else's shows were faster or not. Once we have the concept
of having a syndicated Thursday, is that clear? Okay. Well, okay. I see, I see that now then. I was,
I was thinking they'll seem like they all came out together, but, uh, yeah, I, I, I couldn't see that
then just, it just seemed like for quite a while. And I'm not sure if it, if it, uh, if we could,
if we could go back to the calendar showing everything because it just, like I said, it seemed to me
like those that the calendar did not move for a month of time. Yeah, the calendar, uh, so
I know the thing that, uh, I changed during the, during this month was if you go to calendar.text,
actually, if you instead of calendar.phb and type calendar.text, what I had was a calendar that I
used, um, for the schedule and everything that's in there is based on the order which it was received,
not the order which it was going to be sent out. And the reason for that is so that I know
um, there are other rules as well, under the, under the scheduling rules, which is, uh, I'll just
read it out here, uh, syndicate shows released on the road schedule and follow slot. Okay, HPR, um,
shows a release based on the following rules given the produced in the HPR priority, while avoiding
having anyone host or series repeated in the one week. So that's why, uh, say, for example,
you upload five shows and there's only, there's nothing in the queue. Then, or if there's five
shows, you will get a show one slot each week. That's why your shows, even though they were uploaded
in one bunch, I've been released on the Monday and then the next Monday and then the next Monday
and then the next Monday is because, you know, we spread out a whole soul in the particular weeks.
These are the rules as they are now. And then the whole discussion, which I'm very glad you brought
up, actually, because it did highlight something that was beginning to annoy me was, um, people were
saying, well, I'm not going to contribute a show because, uh, it'll be three months before the show
comes out. And, you know, that's a valid point. There is a reasonable expectation of, you know,
if I upload a show, it's going to come out in a month or two, you know, or it's going to come out
fairly fast. So, um, I'm very, very glad you brought up the point. And what you highlighted in
the system is that the rules, the scheduling rules need to be modified. And that's what the whole
discussion is about. Isn't there also can a danger of where, um, sort of fest and barcamps,
all tend to happen around the same time of year, you know, around around the world, that there
will be certain months where you will get a flood of sort of like fest type, um, talks submitted,
but then you could go months with not having any. Yeah, it's fairly, um, well, if we if we deal
about the fest in two different ways, if we say that, um, and 5150 did bring up an excellent
point, actually, there are say they, they, if we were doing, you know, fest, xyz, the knitting
fest comes up and somebody is there and finds all the talks very interesting. Well, what we should do,
and what we should continue to allow to do is somebody to submit one of those a representative
example. And, you know, ideally, if with a voice over at the front, this is a fest that I went to,
it was already interesting, the talks are brilliant, um, and you can get them here. Here's an
example of one that I really enjoyed. Here you go, listen to that blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
and then at the end, yeah, you can get them over here and all the rest of that stuff, no reason why
we couldn't have that. Now, to talk about the other type of fest, um, are the fest where HBR goes
and, uh, somebody gets underbots, drives or takes a plane and actually attends the fest and
was walking around with an interview. Um, now, what we had last year was, uh,
a camp was, those shows got released in the regular schedule. And then we had the complaints from
people, well, you know, it's just taken ages for them to come out, it actually took longer than
a year and they're still not out, uh, for all those shows to go through the queue. So this year,
we said, well, we're going to reserve maximum of five slots within two weeks of a fest.
There you go. You have been maximum two weeks in order to get everything edited, everything
on. And if you don't make it after that, well, you know, tough, they just go into the regular queue.
So at our camp, you're going to get a bit and then say any one that we tend to go to is north
east Lennox Fest or the south east links Fest, but those ones tend to be a month or two apart.
So I don't, I don't know if there's going to be actually that many of them.
Can I, can I just jump in? Yes, of course. Because obviously I was at our camp last year and our
camp this year. Um, and the way you recorded your interviews last year was completely different
than how you did it this year. I think this year you were a lot cuter about it. They were definitely
more sort of sound bite-ish, a lot shorter. And I actually probably feel that you were able to
capture more of the feel of, of camp in those shorter sound bite type interviews.
Absolutely. You live in learn, you live in learn and, um, I mean, uh, I took a book out to do that.
You know, if you go to a higher Lennox Fest, could the people that jump on the plane and take their
interviewing equipment, could they not sort of learn from that and maybe just do sound bites from
there? Absolutely. That's what, uh, and that's what Clature does actually. We will do four or five
shows together and, you know, submit them. And I think that's what we need to say to people if
they are going to these Fest. You've got the five days, you know, whether you use all five days,
if you only have five interviews, maybe two days is enough, but at least we've given the option
of somebody who's paid money. They're all in hard money and, you know, not gone to any of the
things in the Fest and not enjoy it. Well, you know, not participated in the normal way. They've
taken their time out and they've given their time off for HBR. Well, then there's a reserve of shows.
And it's not just from the interviewer's point of view. It's from the person who's been interviewed
as well, because quite often those, you know, you go here, uh, talk to me about your project,
you know, with Pimpat here in Hacker Public Radio, when's it going to be out? Well, you know,
it could be out in four months. So at least with that block reserved, you go, it'll be out next week.
And then, then you're done. Then, you know, there's a certain feedback. At least for interviews,
I would like to, um, to modify the queueing system. And, uh, so that interviews would be put into
a higher priority queue so that if people do want to interview somebody of nullity in the community,
that they would get the option of having that released sooner than a regular show.
And that was one of the topics that was on in the discussion for the mailing list.
And I'm trying desperately to produce a text file synopsis of what was discussed on the mailing
list just for the, for the listeners. But, um, we're struggling with the C panel installed. They
are archiving some working. So I know, at least I've got a text file with the email messages in
it and hopefully we'll be able to produce a file that we can include in this. And at, uh, somewhere
in there at the risk of sounding completely contradictory with, with, uh, my, uh, rant that started
all of this that, uh, if it gets to the point where, where out of shows or getting, it looks like
there's, we're less than a week's left or something like that. I have no objection, um, if you can grab,
say, talks from, uh, this year's cell for this, this year's OLLF, uh, off of archive.org if they've
even been posted yet or wherever they go. And, and, uh, slap those into, into the feed if it
looks like everything's going to drain out. Well, excuse me in the, the same, the, I'm sorry. I,
I didn't want you to, I, uh, mute myself because I coughed out. And I made a suggestion on the
mailing list. I think we had a lot of fun. I certainly did, whistling to the, like the old
bin revs and everything in preparation for the 10, in the 1024. And I think it would be appropriate,
maybe once a month or once every two months to, to grab one of those old classic shows that, uh,
the newer, the newer folks weren't, weren't exposed to originally and throw one of those into the
feed as well. Okay, just to clarify what I'm suggesting doing now is dropping the, uh, dropping the
artificial limitations on Acropublic Radio, which means dropping syndicated Thursday and dropping,
uh, talk keep to me news. That would mean we would be releasing five shows a week. Now, none of these
changes, by the way, are going to occur until at least the first of January, at least the first
of January. And the reason for that is we need time for people who don't follow the mailing list,
which you should join. Acropublic Radio, put them in page. There's a link there for mail lists.
Unfortunately, the slash mail list doesn't work because of our C-panel issues. Um, and
join the mailing list and follow this discussion and make your voice heard because it's the mailing
list that decides this, not, not us. Now, I will advise as somebody who is following the queue,
I will say, well, we've had difficulty in the past with this. So how would you deal with that
situation? So it's, when I'm saying stuff on the queue, it is proposals to feel free to knock it down.
But generally, the gist of it is that I would like, um, to have reserve shows. I would like to have
few different levels of shows available to me, shows that, um, that will come in a high priority queue.
So you would still have people being able to reserve particular slots for special events,
whether that's a date or a, you know, you want to reserve the new year, the new year, if you want
to do a show on that or Valentine's Day, I don't know. That's fine. Um, you want to put something
critical out. That's also fine. Um, so long as you don't do it too often, you know, and that would
be kind of up to getting a feel from the mailing list or, you know, if it's obvious, something like
there's a vote going through and we need people to get active while then fair enough that should
happen. There should still be this concept of schedule slots. Um, we, we spoke about schedule slots,
but we've got to mention, uh, Linux in the shell actually is every second Tuesday and Dan has taken
a little bit of a sabbatical. He's moving house and moving job. I think, um, he's moving house
definitely. So he's, um, taken some time off from that. But that, that to me, Linux in the shell
is, um, once every two weeks, it's HPR content generated for HPR. So, um, even if you follow the rules
and, uh, just schedule, it's put it ahead of time, it would still be, it would still be fine
according to the rules. The only other thing that we're getting rid of will be syndicated Thursdays,
which would mean that instead of that sort of show being on a regular day, it would need to be
submitted by hosts. Um, so instead of saying, Ken, I want this coming off on the syndicated
Thursday queue, it would be you would need to submit it yourself and, um, add it to the series,
um, syndicated Thursday or not syndicated Thursday, but other creative commons works or something.
Um, and then I would like reserved shows. These are shows that we can have in the pool and I need
about 20 of them. I have two at the minute, one by cloud two, one by myself. Uh, I need 20 of these
shows, which are shows that will not be aired unless the queue goes down. Then the regular shows,
obviously, because we have five shows a week, then in this situation, we will have five shows a
week. Currently, we have 10 shows in this, in the queue. So that would mean that in despite all
the shows that people have sent in this month, and there's been quite a few, we only have 10,
two weeks shows. So if we are committed to removing the bottleneck that we have applied on the,
on the queue, so that we are releasing five shows a day, then we need to be able to fill that,
which means I need five shows. So if five shows a week are going out, five shows a week need to
be coming in. Okay. Just 100%, 100% clear there. Five shows a week go out, five shows a week need
to come in. And I'd like to have just for my own sanity here, um, you know, think about it yourself,
you've got to, you've got to completely for the last two years, you have not missed a day.
And then suddenly there's no shows in the queue. Just think yourself the heartbreak that it is
pulling in shows, begging people for shows. It's really annoying, really frustrating, and a real
waste of time. But for a commissar to, um, having things come, come in and go out faster, then we need
five shows a day going out, five shows a week coming in. Yeah. Now sometimes after the new year's
show, we got a lot of people, uh, submitting shows as one big burst. So then there's a back level
of two months. So that needs to be cleared out. So what happens is the, the queue is, is, is, it's
feast and famine feast and famine during the summer. There's nothing happening. There's no
shows coming in at all. And then after the, after the summer holidays are over, lots of shows start
coming in again, which is great. So we need to keep that, keep that up. And 50, 150 just last
comment. And I'll stop talking, honestly, is, um, that I don't think it's fair on other
shows to go, well, if we start running out of the shows, we're not going to play your shows.
But if we, if we don't have shows to fill slots on our network, what we'll do is we'll take
your shows and we'll play them. And I don't think that's fair. I think we either, uh, we will promote
other shows by adding them to the queue. If a new podcast comes up, I don't have any problem,
you know, playing one or two, two of their shows, you know, if somebody submits the show twice,
fine or, you know, even one, so whatever, that the people get exposure to it. But it's not fair
just because I run out of the shows in the middle of the summer. Then I start playing shows from
other networks are from other podcasts that I wouldn't have played, you know, two months earlier
because we were busy and we didn't even, I don't stop talking. No, I can certainly see you there.
And I, uh, I guess I didn't realize things I could complain about were always on syndicated
Thursday. It just, I, I probably before I submitted that, I should have scrolled back through
the shows and looked at it. It just didn't seem to be like, for a while, we were producing
three, quote, regular shows a week. It seemed like they were, you know, four special shows a week
and maybe one regular show. Can I can completely understand where you got that because there was,
there would have been an all-campon, which was one from a show two year to a year ago.
And that was one that was produced by HPR host myself. So therefore it was in the regular queue.
And I put five of them in and because of my show, because of the rule, avoiding one holster series
repeated every week, that will come out on a, say, like on a Tuesday and then it would be on
the next Tuesday and the next Tuesday and the next Tuesday and the next Tuesday. So you would then
have maybe a HPR community news followed by a show of mine that was from a camp followed by,
I'm sorry, followed by Dan, perhaps with Linux in the shell, followed by a show of mine from
a camp, followed by syndicated Thursday, which would be North East Linux Fest or something,
followed by Toki to my news. So you would, in that whole week, there would be no show, an ordinary show
released, a HPR used show. But don't feel bad about this. You've highlighted something that's
been bugging me because it is annoying. You just listened to what happened last month. All these
people who have contributed shows and we're talking about festivals, submitting papers for festivals
that are already bit and gone. And you know, we do need to speed up the, the, the, the, the, the,
the flow of shows gone through. So that begs the question, right? We have, we have shows,
and we agree to five shows, but that's at a certain point. This was the, we run out of
reserves shows. Then what do we do? Now 51 50 there said we should, we should, you know,
play syndicated stuff. But how long do we continue doing that? At what point do we say it's over?
HPR, it was great. We had, I don't know, 27 long years of success. And then suddenly,
we cannot keep up with the five shows a week. And my proposal for that was we would have one
final show in the queue, which would be the goodbye. Thank you for the fish episode.
The June's day episode. Exactly. And my proposal was that we record that on the new years,
during the New Year's Eve's 24 hour extravaganza. We would say, you know, this is the final show.
Thank you very much for listening to Acapable with Radio. This is the final show.
And if the show is ever played, we haven't had enough contributions from people. And the whole
series is over. Thank you very much. And then the end, once that show is hosted, it would RM
replace the main web page with a HPR shutdown. Thank you very much. And that would be the end of
HPR as a project. Do you ever see, for say that happening again? Yes, I do. I do. I mean,
five shows a week is 260 shows. I sent it as an email attachment on the mailing list was a
just a graph of what happened in 2010. And there wasn't enough shows. So what happened was
there was syndicate content played. Sorry, there wasn't. There was one week. There would be a show.
The next week, there would be two shows. The next week, there would be three shows or whatever.
Some people are happy with that, but I have always had the feeling that to be a series of podcasts,
you say, I'm going to release my show every so often. And I want everybody, really want everybody
to go back and listen to a show by Lost in Bronx. And it's entitled All Soldiers. And it was released
at a time when this was going on on Hacker Public Radio. It was released at 2010 0802. And it was
about podcasting, podfading and ordinary voice, the same extraordinary things. It inspired me to
join the mailing list and say the original posting is actually archived on the mail archive.
You can go back and read it and say, my fault at that point was, is HPR dead? Yes or no, if it is,
let's kill it. Let's put it to bed. Let's thank everybody for it and turn off the likes in a
well-ordered fashion. And believe it or not, it is going to happen sooner or later. I mean, if somebody
takes over, if we get this whole thing automated, if people start contributing shows, it might
happen for a long time. At a certain point, everything comes to an end. It happened with Ben Reb.
It happened with Radio Free Comerica. It happened with Infonomicon. You know, life gets in the way.
I don't want it to happen, but as I said, if we have these Doomsday Shows available,
that each year we can record another Doomsday show that we can add. Well, we survived another year,
sorry, Fuji, and hopefully we'll have 20 of those so that at the end, we would have 20 shows
with our response to, basically, a month of shows of saying goodbye to hacker popularity around
two years. Personally, I think that would be a great way to go. So the episode was HPR 560 and
a link to that will be in the show notes. And I'll just looking at the calendar right now. And,
of course, I said that doesn't include syndicated and thought it shows. I'm thinking a year ago,
we would have thought 10 shows in the queue would have been almost a comfortable
amount. But, and I said, can't credit Poki enough for coming up with the New Year's Eve episode.
And that just suddenly I remember last year in January. First, we had, oh, 15 shows. Well,
that's in the queue. That's incredible. And then 20. And then, you know, nearly 30 at a time.
And we just thought, man, that's just outstanding. And I think we've been kind of, we were kind of
spoiled there for a few months. And I said, and you got a credit kin for all the work and all
scrambling he does and has done it in the background to keep this thing running for the rest of us.
You know, in danger though, that your own rules are stifling you.
Yes, that's why I want to change them now.
But maybe it's a case of when you have a certain amount of episode and a queue,
there are no rules. It's purely on an upload basis. But when you get down to say just like
the 10 shows or a certain amount of shows, that's when your rules apply for them bringing in syndicated
shows. Yeah, but what's the purpose? Why, why would we do that? Why would hacker public radio then
become a syndicated, it would be a dead network surviving on like a zombie. If you want to listen
to syndicated shows, all you need to do is go to hacker media, which is another bin red project,
which syndicates other hacker shows, because then there would be no HPR content.
But at the moment, like I say, please, you know, bear with me and don't shoot me down in flames.
No, no, no, sorry, sorry if I'm coming across, I'm just passionate about that.
No, I think a lot of these conversations come about because, you know, your regular contributors,
say, your 5150s, your Pokeys, your clartis, have gone ahead and recorded episodes that have
been sat there for ages in a queue because of the rules situation. There's always an episode
above them that will take precedence. Yeah. And you don't want to piss off your regular presenters.
No, no, that's absolutely true. But on the other hand, I don't want to piss off my regular
presenters either by arbitrarily cherry picking a show and having it all can decide what goes
on the network and doesn't decide what goes on the network. We as a community have come up with
a set of guidelines rules about what should be scheduled. And regardless of whether it's me,
5150 or you that's scheduling the shows, they will come out in the same order.
Now, if we're saying here is a community, which we are, that the queue, it's not working out,
probably it can be honed. It's been going for two years. It's time to rejig it a little. Well,
then we should do that. But at the end of it, what I want to do is make a list of here are the
rules for releasing shows so much so that anybody, anybody at all is at home following along
looking at the queue when shows come in. They will be able to predict accurately what shows
going to come out on when or at least not taking new shows into account or things that bump up.
But with given the same inputs, you should get the same output. And it's very important that we do
this one for two reasons that we're fair and we're seen to be fair. But number two, we also want
to schedule this thing. We want to script this thing. What's, what's pink and hard?
The peaks of the flick, the flick knife.
Anyway, that's, I think we've gone on enough about the scheduling situation.
The fact of the matter is, though, folks, that regardless of what queueing system we use,
there are only 10 shows in the queue right now. So I need people descending shows. And what I'll be
asking people to do is tell me if it's a show that you want in the regular queue or if it's a backup
show and I really would love something like 20 backup show, backup show ones. That would be fantastic.
And if we had enough people putting into a backup show, I have no problem saying, okay, on Friday,
we will release one from the backup show. So at least that's not getting completely stale. So we will
find out what Polkies best eggs in the world are. He's actually recorded that show. Yes, he has,
yeah, the best eggs in the world. And I have recorded, sorry, I have a recording of the show. It's
tattoo, who has said we can put one of his shows called Mud MUD. That's all I'm giving you into
the backup show. So they sound like brilliant shows. Why, why are they not in the queue? This is the
point. It's phenomenal. It's, it's feast of famine. From my point of view, it's feast of famine,
the size of famine. Yeah, put them, put them, the queue will empty and then HVR is over.
Well, it takes, because it takes about between me asking for a show and getting shows in, it takes
about two weeks for that to happen. So I need at least two weeks of shows to fill that buffer or
then we go dead. And for anybody out there, out there listening, who is saying, oh, I'd like to
hear those shows too. The way around is to become a contributor, then you'll have access to the
FTP server, which works two ways. So if you, if you happen to see one, when you're putting your
show up, you see something on there. Oh, I'd like to hear that. You can, you can pull it down
at the same time. So for, for those of us that would, would like to hear those special shows,
well, you just have to be contributing shows often enough that you're, that you're on that FTP
server and you see them as they're uploaded. So it's almost like you have a, if you find up
member, you've got access to those shows, but if you're not, you can't. Not so much. You can also
get to them via the web. If you go to the contribute page, you'll get all the information.
Anybody who's, who's tech savvy enough to be, be on this network or be even listened to this,
has enough technical savvy know how to get to those shows. So all those shows, yes, are available.
Absolutely. But, but do you, do not, coronominal, you brought up a good point. Am I, this is,
this thing, this whole thing is just affecting me, because I'm the one having broke pressure when
the queue disappears down to one. And then all of a sudden, there's 15 shows again. And I'm okay
for three weeks. And then I don't panic until three weeks time comes. And then it shows,
the queue has gone down to one. It's the buffer. The backup shows are there. So I don't have
heart attacks. Yeah, I understand why you, why you're doing it. But, um, yeah, it's, I mean,
I'm not going to tell you that you don't need them, because I mean, you've put them in place. And,
you know, so that's up to you. But from, from, from where I'm sitting, it sounds like it's,
it's, it's just like a self-imposed rule. Yeah. And, you know, and it may be even though you're
thinking, okay, so it's going to stop my blood pressure going through the roof. You know, there
might be people in the community that it's not fair on because tomorrow morning, I might want
my wife to cut me the best eggs in the world. But until I hear, until I hear that episode,
it's not going to happen, mate. Absolutely. No eggs are bloody awful.
I'm joking. She can hurt me now. I'm moving out of range. But if we did, we could always say,
yeah, the backup shows we will keep. We will keep, I don't know, 20 backup shows in the queue.
And then when the 21 21 come in, when the 21 comes in, that one will be up. It's not a problem.
That's not a problem. You know, if we have enough shows, we can hit a bit to jig it. But a lot of
people have said, well, you know, you didn't need to release my show. That could have been released
any time at all. It's it wasn't the wasn't of importance. And that's good to know. But unless I
know that beforehand, I can't take that into consideration when I'm doing the scheduling.
And I don't want to be doing scheduling based on, oh, I think it will be good now to keep that show
in the back unless people tell me that it is okay to keep it in as a reserve. Then, you know,
that's, yeah, I do, I do feel for you. I have no idea that because I mean, when you've been
discussing about the fact that, you know, when the queue gets to zero, the hacker public radio is dead,
you know, is that necessarily the case? Or is it just the case of, for though, you know, while
there's no shows in the queue, you could, for that day, you could just put out a show recording
a recording of white noise for say 30 minutes. And maybe that would encourage people then to,
because I mean, if I, tomorrow morning, if I came downstairs and turn my teleon and it was just,
you know, fuzz on my tele because nobody out there produced any content of any type, you know,
I'd maybe start thinking to myself, oh, well, maybe I'm going to produce some content.
Exactly. Well, here's the thing. You come downstairs in the morning and it's your first show.
You need to think of a topic. You need to plan because it's usually during the summer holidays
when things go low. You're out camping in the woods. You only hear this episode, you only hear
the episode a week later anyway, because HPR is traditionally down quite low on the playlist
and people's pod catchers. And then we're already playing three weeks of silence on the network.
So if you're listening for three weeks on your tele, how long are you going to leave it before you
go? Well, let me affect this for a game of snooker day. The show is over. Whereas if I'm playing
a backup show and at the beginning of each of those backup shows, I say, this is a backup show.
We're playing this because we don't have any regular contributions. This is urgent. We need
shows coming in or HPR will stop. There are two more other shows in the queue. The following day,
there's one more show left. The following day, that's it. HPR is over.
So you need a public announcement, a broadcast. Oh, yeah, there will be a public announcement on
these reserved shows. And we, I would like to task those people who are contributors and
thinking about being contributors. And if you're listening to my voice, you should be a contributor.
To start, I'm going to start thinking for this backup queue of sort of a, you know, non-technical
more whimsical, I guess you would say sort of epic to contribute because even in the
Unix and Unix-like system, where a lot of stuff is static, when we're dealing with highly
technical topics, a lot of that kind of thing has a shelf life where you might do it recording.
And it comes up from this reserved queue two years, three years from now. It may no longer
be as current or as relevant. So, excuse me, you know, the best eggs ever sort of topic idea,
I guess that's already taken. But, you know, be faking of things in that sort of neighborhood.
Absolutely, absolutely. But what I'd also like to say is, I don't know if what you said is 100%
correct. If you're reading out how to do Unix pipes or use the LS command or use the man pages,
or if you're describing how said Grep and Ock works, that's going to be as valid today as it
was 40 years ago when these commands were originally written. There's absolutely no reason why you
can't keep something like that technical in the queue. It's absolutely not a problem. And again,
if we get enough of these reserve episodes, these episodes can start playing out. They'll just
been playing out a little bit slower. If we can say, we will always keep 20 of these reserve ones
around. As soon as 21 comes in, number one will be released. That's not a problem for me.
Sounds like an incentive, really. And then anybody who wants to hear one of the ones sitting in the queue,
it's more incentive to donate to it. Yeah, perfect. We could have some vote buttons.
Yeah, I'm a bit reluctant. Choking.
It's a boasting thing. Sorry, I just don't have any sense of humor in this one.
For some clearly not care. You need to mel-o-man.
No, I'm too blood pressure. I'm very passionate about this. I need the queuing algorithm to be perfect,
and I need it to be fair. Just do that for me, Cornamel. Make it better.
All right, let's move on from this quagmire. That is this. Some of the other suggestions that
came up was, let me see. What do we do? What are we talking about? Faulting? Faulting? Yeah.
About the... Well, some people suggested Saturday and Sunday broadcasting, didn't they?
And then I think that was very quickly poo-pooed, because like you said, you need some quality
time with your family. It's you and just a couple of other people that put in these podcasts out.
So, Saturday and Sundays was a no-no. Yeah, thanks, actually, for bringing it up.
The people have suggested the Saturday and Sunday thing for release. And even though
even if we do get the thing automated 100%, then somebody still has to come and verify that
the website worked, that the RSS feeds come down, that they all go MP3 and speaks, and now Opus,
or what's it called? The Pecanus? It's Opus, yeah. Opus. Ones will work, that there's nothing
gone wrong with the thingy, that there's no mail in the queue, that everything is working.
And that's why if you work in a cable industry or in the TV center, or even on a 24-hour operation,
you have 24-hour operational staff, and I basically don't want to do that. I personally don't
want to do it. If somebody else does, that's fine. So, that was one take. The other thing was,
well, why don't we not just release everything as it comes in, and then when the queue
dwindles down to nothing, just let it go, and then when chills get added in, just release them out.
And my personal feeling on that one is, and I do feel quite strong, is, if you're listening to
a, it builds up trust, if you release five sholes a week. If you say you're going to release
every second Tuesday, like Sunday morning, the English review, they release every week,
on Sunday morning, that's it. The Linux tick show comes out on the Thursday, every single Thursday,
that's it. Dan and Fab release every two weeks, going to UK release every two weeks, there's a lot
of consistency there. And even if you take somebody like tattoos, a new world order, he is now
releasing on a particular schedule, he will stop for a season, start up again, and stop for a season,
start up for again. It builds up trust in the, you know, what we're doing, and people will take
us seriously, and people will know, yeah, we're a network. Now, I don't know, that's my personal
feeling, but other people can have views on that if they wish. Obviously nobody does.
Well, definitely five, five days a week is the goal, and said we, we, we can see all
Rayhaut's feast and, feast and famine, we were, one was for a start, we're, that's when it came
up, said, oh, well, let's, let's do seven days a week, so the shows get released, and here we are,
only a few short weeks later, and we're, you know, we're sort of looking at our own mortality,
another two, three weeks of shows, probably, with the, with the regularly scheduled stuff thrown
in. Yeah, something like that, so there you go. That's, that's where it is. But yeah, what I,
what I did want to talk to people listening to this, if you've met it this far, into the,
an hour and 28 minutes in, the, the original post that I wanted to was, was ask,
that we would perhaps, instead of people having to bother about encoding shows with the upload,
that's into the different feeds that we would just accept, one, a flag file coming in,
and I don't think anybody has had much of an issue with that.
Yeah, if anybody would, it would be me, because you guys know I've got the slow bandwidth,
and my up is about 50% of my down, and I think all I, I uploaded a 200 meg, uh,
flack of, uh, uh, uh, Linux basics, when door wasn't there to him, and I think it came out a 200
meg file, and it probably took three hours for to go, so, but I could, it's not like I'm contributing
a show a week or something like that, or that I use, that I use my upspeed for much of anything,
and I can certainly, uh, let, let the computers sit there, and it may be a difference,
if I do three shows this weekend, I may upload them on three different days, rather than
all three together, uh, if the, uh, if the, if the FTP server starts to time out, as I'm uploading
them up, uh, bog do, uh, go. Okay, and this is where I jumped on, on the mailing list with my
um, kiss analogy, you know, to keep it simple, stupid, because, you know, whilst people are,
you know, comfortable uploading shows, and they're sort of like season podcasters,
you know, for someone who isn't, you just want the easiest possible method to do it, you know,
wow, flack, or, you know, I have no idea, I just want to hit a button, say what I've got to say,
and then be able to either email it up, so for me, some of the mailing lists conversation
almost became too technical, and you're all worrying about the minutiae of detail over how we're
going to get these episodes up, where it's actually just need to encourage people to record them,
and as easily as possible. Absolutely, which is why on the contribution, on the mail, uh,
sorry, on the main website, if you go to the main website, you'll have to call in number,
which is you pick up the fold, you talk, uh, in fact, if you go to hack up up the
radio for such contributions, so it says, one of the recorded shows, the quickest way to get started
is dial the number in the US, uh, 206, 203, 5729, you say your show, you press the pound sign,
and it will magically appear. In the UK, you dial four four, uh, sorry, 0, 0, 4, 4, 0, 2, 3,
4, 3, 2, 5, 8, 7, 9, you say your show, you press the pound sign, and that's it, a hash sign,
in the UK, obviously, so you couldn't be simpler than that. Anything else, if you're recording it
on a portable room media player, you can email it to us, this is 100% clear, yeah, you don't have to
have show notes or anything else, but if you are going to do it in audacity, then the next level
of person who kind of wants to do that themselves, then they, uh, we will include instructions and
how to do that on the website as well. So we will be stripping for everybody, and Epi count us
this is where I want you to come in after, uh, 5150. I'm just going to say, I think perhaps
that should be pointed out, as you've always said, Ken, that the, uh, that standard is that's
intelligible, that we can hear it, and it's of interest, uh, to geeks, which if you're a geek,
then it's, then clearly it's something of interest, but we, we may want to put out, uh,
these are guidelines for the people who are technically comfortable, you know, being able to do
these guidelines, but don't let that be a bit here to contributing, if you're not, if you look
at that page and that, or those instructions and those seem a little beyond you, please, please
just do it in the, in the way that you're comfortable with, and you know, not to put too much on you,
because we always do, Ken, but, you know, we'll send it to us and we'll deal with it as is.
Oh, sorry, uh, forgot to press on mute there. Absolutely can agree with you more. Uh, on the website,
it is going to be, it is like that right now. If you, if you look, you can see,
want to record a podcast, it's very, very simple. That's what you do. Just save it some way and send
it into us. And what I'd like to do as well is, um, uh, do some how-to videos and stuff.
If you can this, can you give us a rundown on following on from your show and discussions on
the mailing list, what, what you're planning on doing, and can you give people the link as well?
Oh, okay. Yeah. What I've been working on is, uh, is a web page that you could use to upload
the, uh, upload your submissions, and it's got a, a form on it that sort of guides you through
what information HPR needs in order to post the audio. And I'm still working on that. Uh,
but you can see what I've got so far. If you go to, uh, hpr.dogphilosophy.net slash hprup.php. And
take a look at the form that I put together so far and see if it makes any sense, if it makes things
simpler, uh, that kind of thing. I've got it set up. So if you hover over any of the text, it should
pop up with a little explanatory box so you can see what, what the field was for. Yeah, it's, uh,
it's a spot on idea. And what I'd love to be able to do as well if somebody has, uh, knowledge
and how to do that is have a record now button on the website so that, you know, you, you want to
desperately record a show, you can press the record now. Two other things that was, uh, sorry,
kind of something else you want. Do you want to talk about the transcoding now? Or shall we move
that whole over to the development mailing list? Oh, you leave that on the mailing list for now. I
was actually, uh, thinking about doing that as part of the follow up episode that I was planning to
do, uh, to the last one that I did. I've got about three topics lined up now that I'm, uh, juggling
between, trying to decide which one to do next. Uh, as far as the transcoding from my perspective,
the only question I still have is, are we going to require just one, uh, file or can we still
do the entire pre encoding ourselves and just upload them ready to, ready to queue? All I think as,
bobex mentioned there, that's complicated for the general everyday user. But if you're going to
a professional podcaster like, I don't know, Dan or, or Klaatu or, uh, yourself, in fact,
being one of the few people including myself who, including myself who doesn't do it, being
one of the few people excluding myself who actually, uh, submits shows according to the spec that
everything is done properly. Um, if I always want to make that option open for people so that,
you can even secure copy them along with the encoded, um, XML file in atom format, everything
done, then there's nothing that needs to be done on the network side. But that brings up the question,
again, do we, um, do we then make use of, um, the other topics? So can I just go back to the other
topics that we were going to discuss that was in the, uh, the issues. So issue one was the flak.
Issue two was, do we endorse the idea of HPR being used as a way to promote other shows?
But do you think of that, folks? Oh, definitely on that, uh, uh, I mean, and that's, uh, again,
that's more work for, for you, of course, could be automated, but to, uh, I've always thought that
when we went into the 1000 and the 1024 that we were putting out almost for other shows to play,
and at the time I was wishing that there would, there was a way we could work out to reciprocate.
Exactly. And, um, I know there, there has been, uh, Corba, too, has given some feedback, um,
about this topic that he didn't want to see it, but what I felt myself is that, um,
that HPR coming back for, if you trace it all the way back our lineage, the whole point of it
has been to promote the idea of hacking to people and to get more people involved, to get more
media out there into the commons. And so I think it's one of our real core values is, is promoting
other shows, getting other people involved in podcasting, um, ideally somebody who was thinking
of podcasting and decides to put out a show on HPR gets the, uh, their technical thing down,
and then goes off and starts their own show. That to me is a success. So, um, yeah.
Well, yeah, I've always, uh, over here, we, you know, we have these offices called Incubators,
where you can get cheap office space almost just like a cubicle to start your business.
And I've always thought of that way that HPR is sort of that, or for somebody like me who's not
willing to make a, uh, weekly or monthly commitment to, to doing a podcast, but still to get
their voice out there for, for what they can afford to make time to contribute. Exactly, that's
unbeaten. I'm just waiting for the clock to finish, and then, uh, trunk gate silence will do its
magic. But, uh, now there's no mukins, so I'm going to have to leave in the reference there for
people. Um, yes, they, uh, I, I really think it's, it's one of our main missions here is to promote
other shows. And even at all camp, one of the biggest catches for people was they were kind of
wondering what the hell HPR wasn't, you know, try to run past. And one of the big gotchas,
ways that we were able to hook them in was, um, was by giving the list of, um, of current
active podcasts with the most current at the top and then tailing off towards the end. And
that, you know, all you had to say was, do you want the list of current podcasts? And obviously
people were there because of podcasting. And then, you know, you can go, oh, here's a list that
know about this. You're interested in that. Yeah, what do you do? And then the topic, and if you're
ever interested in doing a show about this thing that you're passionate about, here's our
business card. Here's Hacker Public Radio. This is what we do. We're part of the community,
blah, blah, blah, blah, we're supporting you. No, it's, it's been a big one like that. Anyway,
I was also suggesting that we would play promos from other shows at the end of our show.
And I think that is, uh, yeah, unlike it's like the Linux and Tech Show where they play all the
promos every week. I think it would be probably limited to, you know, one promo per episode would
be sufficient, but other shows do play our promos. So it would be nice for us to return the favor,
as you mentioned. Yeah. So basically, the promo would be tacked onto the end after the outro.
Is that where that would go? Yeah, exactly. Well, the quid pro quo seems appropriate. Yeah, and I
mean, as soon as somebody hears the, you know, the outro plus whatever thing you want to put on,
then at the end, there's like a promo. Oh, oh, if anybody's, yeah, if anybody's terribly offended,
they can always hit the next button on their, on their player. Absolutely. And you're bringing up
perfectly the next point, which is the, um, the fact that hacker public radio produces quite a lot
of shows. A lot of people get a lot of, like we have, uh, I don't know, what's how many gigabytes,
if you go to the syndication page, I keep it pretty much up to date. Uh, we have 17 gigabytes
on the org feed. We've seven gigabytes on the speaks feed, and we've got 21 gigabytes on the
MP3 feed. So we produce a lot of shows. So, um, what people have said to me in the past is, can I just,
I just can't keep up with them. And there's a sense of guilt at not knowing what shows, you know,
just unsubscribe to the entire feed because yeah, there are a few interesting shows, but
a lot of the shows I'm just not interested in. So what I was thinking about doing was putting in a,
short text to speech summary. So using, uh, ask the people when they're supplying the show,
and Epicanus has added a, um, a field in the upload form, which would be used then to send out
to Twitter and whoever to say the HPR's today's show is this boom, away it goes. Um, but we
would be done with either narrated or a text to speech version of that, which was say, today's show
is about, um, the best eggs in the world. Boogie describes the best eggs in the world. So you
would then at least go, okay, I'm not interested in that press delete, or yes, I am interested to
say that. Another good advantage of doing something like that is, of course, sometimes the
different types of shows that comes out, some of them are round table discussions that you can
listen to while you're on the bus. More of them require you to be behind, or having access to a
computer to follow along, say like a sigflop compiler episodes, you kind of need to be going along
with Wikipedia there to follow that show. A lot of my stuff you're just as well deleted and move on.
So it also gives people an option to go, okay, well, I'll skip that until I'm doing the dishes,
or I'll listen to that now because it's a, it's a music show and I'm at work and I can listen to it.
Yeah, but isn't, isn't a lot of that time going to be redundant from the title of the show?
And for the summary, you're already in the feed, that is.
Summary's in the feed, but you are on your MP3 pair. Don't forget folks, you know,
the job log myself is on the bus. I don't have access to anything. I'm just listening with one
earbudding. I'm stuffing chickens in a factory, or I'm driving a crane. I don't necessarily have
an internet access. All I have is my MP3 pair, which may or may not have a display on it.
Yeah, I listen to all of my podcasts without my computer, you know, it's either on the way
to work or while I'm doing something in the kitchen or whilst I'm walking the dog, I won't have
a computer in front of me whilst I'm listening to them. Okay, well, with it, with it, with it,
asking everybody to start their episode with a short summary about what is going to transpire.
Wouldn't that be a little less jarring than doing it with a text-to-speech?
Okay, now I'm going to become very my own warning. Everything now is definitely my own personal
opinion. The text-to-speech thing is very useful in that it is currently so crap on Linux.
The text-to-speech implementation is so crap, it's like as if you're running, what was that?
CDE or the desktop that Son had on slurs? Anyone? Yeah, CDE, common desktop environment. Yeah, CDE.
That is where they audio desktop for our listeners who are listening to the show, your comrades,
your fellow hackers who happen to be visually impaired, one reason or other, that is the level
of bling that they have. We're not talking about 3D rotating cubes, we're talking about them having
the fucking CDE desktop as far as the quality of their audio goals. If you listen to Apple's
Siri, that is how far it can be and we can take it even further than that and how we do it is we
get more eyes on the bugs and the one way that we can get more people's eyes on the bugs is by
putting in text-to-speech and making a point that every time we use text-to-speech at the end of
the episodes we say, thank you for listening to hacker public radio, this medusa text-to-speech,
my voice is crap, please support the accessible computing foundation, blah, blah, blah, who will then
use their money to improve my voice? Okay, end of political rant. Thank you very much. Sounds good to me.
Who listens to CC hits here by the way? Not so much, I tend to listen to
the records that get submitted to CC hits who are the podcasts like the bug cast.
Yeah, but he uses the linn the voice from the deviates used as well and deviates used that voice
and that wasn't that bad. Okay, initially he speaks voice is pretty crap, but there you go.
But I don't know, if people are so jarred by it, I can also record my voice doing the
summary, but again, it's more work on my part, I don't particularly want to do that. I would love
a tolerable text speech at the beginning, it's actually two lines, it wouldn't be that much,
but again, this one is completely and totally entirely up to the community to I have no opinion
otherwise, other than my normal opinion, the rest about the Q and stuff, I will I have personal
experience of edge cases that I can give more of an impulse, sorry, for the last hour.
The Ubuntu on this machine has been popping with package update and I've been clicking
us to go away and it keeps coming up and up and up and up and up. This is going to be crunched
banged very shortly. Don't do it. Well, as soon as I get razor Qt working, then yes.
Okay, sorry, I was item 2b, so a lot of contention about that one, blah blah blah blah.
To to see is oh yes, text to speech of announcements that come in via identica Twitter or email
or something. So one of the things that we have is feedback. It's like you release shows into a vacuum
and you never get feedback from it. Wouldn't it be cool if we had a way of people after you submit
to the show so on a Monday that if people tweet to great HPR show blah blah blah blah or I like to
show correction. This was that or you might also want to look at something else. Just short
of the messages either coming in via email, coming in via identica Twitter, something like that
or even a web form that would be text to speech and put at the end of the outro or something
or just before the outro. What do you reckon? So just before the promos? Well, I don't know,
don't worry about exactly where there would be. It would be at the end before the promos, yeah,
probably. Every feedback is good. No, go ahead. I was just I was going to say that any feedback
is good in any format, surely. So if it's more accessible. Now, I was wondering are people actually
doing that now? Are there actually Twitter comments saying all this episode was great or whatever?
There are there's a common system on the current website which is don't be replaced
so shortly, but it will happen. It's not a great common system. It's completely overrun by
spammers. I need to monitor it at all times. There's probably security vulnerabilities in it. We need
to get rid of it. There will be a WordPress feedback system. But for those, even those ones,
feedback, they tend to be like paragraph chapters of text. What I'm more thinking about here is
something. Oh, I've just listened to the show and I'll send a tweet. Good show. You know,
are something nice topic, something, you know, short little one-liners that somebody who's
released a show gets immediate sense of feedback the following day or during the week.
Who would be an easy one to do? Just thought it would be cool. Fine. If you don't think it's
good idea, go play with one or so. Well, I was you know, I was just wondering though, if you
that's would be good for the people who listen to every single episode. But as you've said,
there's people who go through and they cherry pick the topics that they think are interesting
or they're really going to be interesting. If they if they avoid episodes by 5150 because all
his stuff is rubbish and then you know, at some time a week after that episode is aired,
somebody somebody puts in a comment and it comes out at the end of an episode of that is completely
unrelated. Is that is are they going to is that just going to annoy them? Yeah, I could point,
but I don't know if that's good enough for pointing out to do it though. If you put it at the end
would be better in that case. So you could fast forward to the end and just play the comments.
You probably won't want to do it on a hashtag basis. I'm just looking now, I've just done a search
for a HPR on the hashtag and there seems to be some sort of, there's a race track somewhere.
Because someone's got this class sucks, it's damn early HPR, this guy is shit, HPR,
is about to stuff up. Yeah, we'll put up a separate account, old HPR for some time or something.
You're also going to have the problem of before each one because most people are not
unless everybody who comments knows that this that this system is up there there and then they
direct their comments to a particular episode and a particular author. If you just have a little
short comment, well that was a great episode. When you hear that, you're not going to know what
episode they're referring to unless you also have an automated fill and it says this was term
ducking by 5150. Yeah, I mean, you're bringing up very, very valid points but they're technical issues
that need to be resolved, but which could be resolved by putting in your email feedback at Hacker
Public Radio and you go hash 1150. So you know, you're giving comments back on 1150. And then
if there's a lot of comments coming in, we can then read the following comments for episode 1150,
which was a show by Pok about the best eggs in the world and give all the comments about those.
We should just don't want to be up about that best eggs in the world. And then the following
are comments on episodes 1153, which was you know, the best bacon in the world by 5150 and give those.
So it's technically solvable, but I want to open it to the community. Is this something that we
want to do or not? Well, first off door door is the bacon authority. So I would leave that one
to him, but I'm one of it might be more appropriate to play these comments at the end of the
at the end of the monthly review. And you'd have to have a hashtag in there something that would
translate 1150 into an actual episode name and author because I don't have memorized
which the numbers of my episodes. So it might I'd have to go back and look and see if they were
talking to me or or talking to someone else. And go back the the keeps going after you fill
upon on the best eggs. It's something that came up earlier. If someone wants to to put in a reserve
episode that can explain said and ought to me so that I can understand it, I'm pulling out one
out of the feed, which brings up another question that by the by if anyone ever ever has a problem
coming up with an idea for a show. Please come on this show. Please email admin at hackerpublicradio.org
I guarantee you I guarantee you I will find a topic that you can talk to us about. And I would also
like a list from people if you have ideas of shows just like 5150 does. You will note out after
the show the emailing admin at hackerpublicradio.org with in the subject suggestion request for show
and then put that topic in. We will put it on the contribution page where you can find a list
of topics that people have requested to have coming up. That's a spirit. If I'm more of this
hacker public radio dying business. But it's it's it's not it will die soon soon. No it won't
it's not it's not the world's end at some point. No hacker public radio will be a zombie.
All right that was issue D2 advertisements. Oh yeah I was text to speech. Then we also had
the advertisement people like the idea I think so this one has actually been sorted in the in
the mail list but again people want comment that's that's fine as well. The advertisement the
The intro and the outro, people like to have the option to add the intro and the outro
and do stuff to it, so put something at the back and at the front and I completely agree
with that, that's fine.
And in Epicannas' form, he has added the option to tell us whether the intro and outro
have been added, so we know whether to add it or not.
So in order to make the intro and outro more generic, we would be separating this show
sponsored by currently, if you are downloading it via a normal feed, it would be this show
is sponsored by lunar pages, blah, blah, blah, all about the lunar pages, and we really
need to do that because we need to do that because they're giving us a massive discount
on our hosting.
But say for example, we were distributing via archive.org, then it would make sense to replace
that advertisement on the files that we upload to them to say, this show has been made
available via the resources of archive.org, please consider sponsoring archive.org by going
over here.
So I don't think anyone has a particular problem with that suggestion as such, either
that we would separate that out from a separate outro which feels more about your
business and tech and public radio, tech and public radios, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah
blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
ash blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah see blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
purely, purely political after EPICANAS episode and an upcoming episode that you'll hear
hopefully next week or the week after. It kind of makes sense. It supports what we're doing
where we're all about free, we're all about the commons, I guess. And yeah, what I want,
if people want to subscribe to the MP3 plead, it's not going away, it's there, but at this
stage, as was stated, again, the majority of media players support AUG. If you're in a position
that it doesn't matter whether you play an AUG or MP3, we have the AUG feed available,
please use it, that's all I'm saying. And that is pretty much it, I'll have a quick chat,
oh yes, there was talk of euro stickers, there's more stickers available, Philip, you have some
crunch bank stickers done. I got there like small little booklets of six little stickers that you got
for crunch bank and they're kind of really nice. Can you talk to us about those? I was thinking
to get them some of them. Yeah, sure. I just ordered them from, they're called sticker books and
you can get them from Moo.com, they're relatively cheap, I think I must be about 90, you get about 90
stickers in a book, and I think the books are probably, well the cheaper, the more you buy, obviously,
the cheaper they are, but I bought hundreds and hundreds of them for about 20 kW, so they're
yeah, they're pretty good. And they're good quality stickers as well, I mean, I've got this crunch
bank one on where I rest my palm, and you know, there's no fading on it or anything like that, so
it's pretty good. Yeah, I really liked them, they're kind of very professional lookamonds.
Well, we've got some excellent artwork from RF Queerne, and also tattoos got some artwork.
If you go to Hackerpubble Grady of Hortslash Media, you will be able to browse the directories
for all this good stuff. They was talk as well of looking for the euro, HPR euro sticker, which is
kind of nice. I know Pok got those done, would be nice to see if we could get some more of them.
I'm actually basically all out of stickers, and I wanted to get some for Bostem, yes folks,
Bostem is coming up, and I'm not going to be able to go, because I have a back operation
three weeks beforehand, so I won't be able to walk. So Dave Morris will be going, and if there's
other people, if there's other people available to help out there, that would be fantastic.
If somebody else wants to contact their podcasters, it would be probably no harm to have just
a podcast table as opposed to a just Hackerpubble Grady or only one. But if anyone's in Europe,
I do know a podcaster that's going, you know, who? Matt from TDTRS, Matt Copperweights, he's
definitely going to Bostem. Fantastic, if he was interested in, yeah, that sort of idea, I was
thinking maybe of talking to Dan and Fab as well, and the Ubuntu UK guys and whoever else.
Fab's not going, I know that. Yeah, I'm not sure about Dan, I can definitely contact Matt
talk to him about our conversation and maybe put him in contact with you. Yes, and can you also
have a word with him about the new year's shows? Well, if you could kind of promote that among people.
Yeah, we'll do. Yep, so I am hoping to go down maybe for one day or something just to see, but
I don't know if I'll be able to. Well, we'll have a look. And with that, I will
be if there's anything else. If I haven't been very busy on the mailing list and I think I've missed
somebody's show by the look of it. So if anybody is sitting there gone, why is my show in the queue
or whatever, you should at least, when you put your show up into the FTP server, you should
see if moving into the processing queue, I don't add it to the list until it's encoded and the show
notes are done because that's a rule that I have. But once it's added to the list, it will get
added in the order of which it came. Does that make sense? Take your silence.
Kenneth Becky, in case I want to record another show or if I actually finally get my husband
to do one, can you email us the FTP server data so that we can upload it ourselves? Yeah, sure,
no problem. Thank you. Yep. Okay, and there's a lot of interesting stuff going on
the development mailing list with with regards to the the epicanesis upload form which
hopefully will get sorted. I also would like to switch, I met quite a lot of changes to the back-end
website as well, hopefully trying to close the few holes that were open. I would like to switch
the beta dot hacker public radio dot org feed from rss to being based on atom. Once that's done,
I'd like to run it for a week or two and then essentially switch the main website to using WordPress.
The reason I don't want to make the switch before I move to atom is because atom is a better format
and that's what we're going to be using. It supports better times and the round table discussion
things that we're doing and if I base it on rss now, if I make the switch now and people start
adding comments to the database, then we have a migration of the comments from there as well as
the migration from the comments from the existing comments system. So it would be more work. So
unfortunately, I now have more time than I had planned to have so we will maybe be seeing some
progress on that. Anyone else got anything else? Well, I just wanted to say, earlier,
Becky mentioned me in the sentence with Pok and Claude too and that was very kind. I just don't
know why I've enjoyed a compliment so much. Oh bless you. It was my pleasure. Yeah, I'd just like
to take this opportunity while we're giving each other a compliment to say a massive thank you to
us and Ken Fallon for keeping HackerPublic Radio alive and doing a great job. I know it has
negative effects on your blood pressure and stuff, so I think you're doing a brilliant job,
keep it up. Thanks a lot, but as I say, it's my firm intention to replace myself with a script
and that script will be fair and just, so that's the plan. But no, it's very rewarding,
HackerPublic Radio, I must say. I think you should name your script Ken Fallon.sh.
Never, ever, ever type that. I'm a server that I'm on or x.text. We'll never, we should never
run that either. Okay, unless anybody's got anything else, that is pretty much it. This should be
out on Monday. There's a 51-51, then there's Pok, then there's tattoo returns with network basics,
and then we have two Navigum in my bill with the way back from the machine, and yes, and it goes on.
Well folks, we are short of shows, so if you're taking anything away from the discussions that we had
here, it is without shows, HPR dies, there is a slow and horrible death. No. If I record one then,
fill it. All right. I'm going to make him do one tomorrow. Yes, it's nice if he doesn't know I'm
recording it. And for all of you who procrastinate out there, I had the idea of the procrastinator's
queue, so what you do is you get drunk, you record a show and you send it to me, and I promise not to
play it, provided we have shows in the queue. That would be fun. Hi, partner, how's it going?
I'm doing good. How are you? Not too bad. If you want a black male show, you just need to sneak in
here and reward after we finish pod brewers on Friday nights. You tell you what to do, you just send
me the outnicks for all of those and I'll add them to the queue, and then we just email people saying,
got your show here, we won't release it. We won't release it. See, I had the thought of just
attaching a Sanskrit clip somewhere about my person discreetly, and then like recording always
like a day in the life of, whereas other people don't know that you're recording them, but then
I'll probably get done for that. Yeah, they get very annoyed when you do that, very, very annoyed.
Not that I haven't heard. Not if it's your husband or your daughter, some of the conversations we have.
Yes, that would be priceless, I can assure you. Okay, this is now two hours, 12 minutes,
29 seconds, including the silence, so. And we've had no dinner. Ah, you put things.
You can. I've got the additional 12 minutes that you can use as a blooper if you want, mate.
It's fine. Thank you very much. I don't edit shows, Phil.
Slapped in, intro, outro, we're done. I'd appreciate people who are expert in audio
codecs and, um, Corba 2 and, yeah, just getting on the dev list so that we can, um, nail down the
technical details of what we distribute. I know that Bobo Beck says we shouldn't involve people
or, you know, want to keep it as simple as possible. The sad fact is, when you do send out a
org file or an MP3 to so many people, so many different players, there's a lot of things that
can go wrong. Now we need to watch out for, so, um, but we've got an awful lot of tips from
other podcasters as well about what to do and what not to do, what to include, so all that needs to
be taken into account. So, there you go. That's pretty much it. Join the mail list. I'm
tribute to show union tomorrow for another exciting episode, hacker, public.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday on their free Friday. Today's show,
like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever consider
recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public
Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club. HBR is funded by
the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are crowd-sponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under creative comments,
attribution, share a like, lead us our license.
