Episode: 1416
Title: HPR1416: 2013-2014 HPR New Year Show Part 1 2013-12-31T10:00:00Z to 2013-12-31T16:00:00Z
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1416/hpr1416.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 01:36:56

---

ā
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 Happy New Year to Christmas Island and to you all
join us for the Hacker Public Radio. What is essentially a crazy 26-hour show for one reason or
another. I have no idea why we're doing this but we are we are joining me today are
Sound Tracer is here. I'm Heath now. I assume I can behead. Yes you can. Yes you can. Oh what joy,
what happiness. So how was your test of break everyone? Well I spent a lot of time working
on the show. Tell me how that happens. Yeah you got to get you know pulled into stuff like this
and that and fighting internet issues. How did they work out for you by the way? The Pepe plan is
in place at this point. Oh so you I switched back to my old cable modem which is a lot less
sensitive to fluctuations in the power level so it should stay stable. It stayed stable for three
years up to this point so it was just because I changed to a newer cable modem that I started
having issues. Okay so I'll probably probably best to give people who are listening to this for
the first time a bit of a rundown three years ago now. Okay Poki had the crazy idea of doing a 12-hour
show and not to be out on last year we decided to do a 24-hour show and then we realized that
there were some time zones the other side of the international deadline for one reason or another.
For them it makes more dynamic sense to be in the same day as their closest neighbors so they
happily switched so that there are two hours ahead of everybody else which means we get 26
year 26 time zones but you will know that there are actually a lot more time zones than that.
Some of them and the first one of these which will be coming up in 12 minutes is going on the 15
minutes. Most of them are on the hour or on the 13 minute mark. We are all referencing here
time as per UTC. So this show has been brought to you by many many many many people. It happens to be
here on hacker public radio mostly because it was Poki's idea. I blame Poki but we are getting the
team speak from which is the mobile server you're listening to from the guys over at Linux Basics.
And we're getting we're getting getting strings and mirrors and scripts from all sorts of people
CC tracker, cabin wisher, CC hits.net, black sparrow media, that's K5 talks, Russ winner,
the loads of other people you sound just to provide that they audio
interludes. That is correct. Basically I am relaying the no agenda music stream which is their
stream number two which plays all creative commons music into our mumble chat here. So whenever we
go on break we'll just go ahead and have a little bit of music. So what I was thinking of doing was
you know a few seconds before each time some public. Can you all start your recordings please
oh that is bad that is bad. What you weren't recording? No nobody was recording. Oh the
guys. Anyway hello everybody. For those of you just joining us on the recording we just had our first
of many bloopers here today. I would like to welcome you again to the HDR New Year show
with those of you listening on the recording which I've just started a few seconds in but let's
let's pretend. Happy New Year too. Happy New Year. Happy New Year to Christmas Island and
what's Kira Bhatti and Samoa Kira Kira Tim Mati. Great I'm glad I'm not doing that.
Yeah, happy New Year to those who are 14 out ahead of UTC or GMT. Yeah just to reiterate
that what happened is the those guys are their closest neighbors are on the other side of the
international deadline so they decided to to join up with them rather than wait for the whole date to
come around. So that's why we've got 26 hours. This whole HDR thing started by Pokey three years ago
when it was a 12 hour show and a kind of a big to differ. Yes it was it was you it was you. It was
your idea my friend. Oh no no no no. Well we're taking the blame for it a whole bunch of us have
been involved in getting it all set up. How about you run us through that please.
We've had Kevin Wishers been doing a massive amount of work doing they getting all the relays
and then we have several different relays. We're using the links basics
mumble server. Again this year thank you very much to those guys. While this is a HDR
it's on the HDR website and quite a lot of people happen to be involved in HDR this is not a
HDR thing this is a community event. So everybody has contributed some stuff to this
putting the show on and we had yeah lots of help lots of streamers lots of relays
so copy has not started so we could run through the the owners of the stream servers real quick.
We have Bob is running one of the MP3 streaming servers. Cobra 2 is providing an MP3 streaming
server. We have the main HPR server. We also John the Nice Guy providing one of the HPR streaming
servers and we have an HPR providing an AUG streaming server and Bert Yerke is providing one of
the AUG streams and K5 Tucks is also providing an AUG streaming server and John the Nice Guy is
also providing one of the AUG servers and then Russ is also providing another AUG server.
I think we should add in there that the HPR main server is run by lunar pages and they do
a fantastic service for the community by providing no service to HPR.
Absolutely that's Josh over there and let's not forget to thank to bankrolls HPR as well.
We also got the re-directional script last year from crayon and we used that again this year
so as you can guess it's been a massive massive effort from everybody.
And we've got the open speak mumble server from the guys over at Linux Basics.
Indeed, indeed we did and in six minutes the next time zone has gone down there's all so
super exciting. It's kind of fun when you start off and you have a time zone right away that's
on the 15 minute mark as opposed to being on you know half hour or an hour mark.
Yeah, true for you. By the way there is a stream admin page where you can go in and see the
number of live streams that we have on at the minute. The total we're up to about 26
live people streaming at the minute and most of them appear to be on the AUG stream.
So freedom wins yay and that's probably because the play now button is on the website so if you're
out there listening to us it's crazy hour of the morning then pop into the mumble chat and say hello.
Yeah, I'm glad you guys caught the one on 15 minutes because I didn't spot that one in my list
of time zones. There's a very good time and date.com. I've got a counters page over there so
click on that. That's what I'm allowing. Yeah, I've got an app on my phone but I believe I got
from the asteroid market but it's just the list is tremendously long to scroll through.
It is we actually have an etherpad document set up with the whole list of all the different ones.
I suppose we should also mention that one of the reasons we're doing this show is as part of the
Orca fundraiser. Yep, there's been a lot of stuff going on about that. The Orca fundraiser is
put on by the Accessible Confusion Foundation. Orca, if you don't know, is a screenreader
or blind or visually impaired people. It's written in Python and provides a way for blind or low vision
dyslexic people to do stuff that we all take for granted every day filing taxes and basically earning
a little. So the fundraiser is going to try and raise a hundred grand. It was originally proposed
by Jason Camelchan so hopefully we'll be able to bring that in. But we're more going to try,
obviously we're going to try and fund that in some way but we're going to also see if we can
improve accessibility in Orca. Not just in Orca but in the speech dispatcher. Other applications
like Conda Bird, Gecko, Evolution, LibreOffice, New Cash. And we're going to try and cooperate with
these projects, filing bugs, bringing accessibility to them for a working on code. They're quite often
a lot of the stuff that's filed as an Orca bug is a bit like, you know, the continual Linux thing.
It's an Orca bug because Orca doesn't play just an open email and evolution for instance but
turns out it can be the situation where that evolution doesn't support the hooks that Orca needs
in order to do its jobs. So quite often Orca will get slammed with all these bugs that actually
affect Orca bugs. But however, that is the plan. Raise awareness. I've had the privilege of having
excellent discussion with the Joanna. Joanna Marie Diggs who is the lead developer for Orca
and she put me in contact with some other people from various other different projects.
And hopefully we will be talking to them and having to use coming up in the coming time.
So, we don't have any music playing like the reason we don't have it, yeah.
And we're a one minute from the next time.
So, we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them and we're going
to be talking to them and we're going to be talking to them
Five four three two one happy new year
I don't want to go happy Chatam Islands
You know guys I can't pronounce any of this stuff so you tell me out here.
So what have you all been up to all your tell me?
Is the stream gone dead or am I suddenly just talking to myself?
You know, don't all jump in at once.
I just got back, I grabbed coffee.
You're gonna have to tell us in the chat room what you're doing dude.
I did.
Oh okay, be right back, had to coffee had to be ready now.
Yeah, good plan.
Well, yes, yes, yes, looking around.
I set up.
Actually, the biggest thing for me this year was getting a soldering arm.
Oh, you finally got one?
Yes, and listen to the show, Mr Exit shows.
I'm one of us out of OGM 2013.
I got one of those kit things and made it worse.
It's been handy because it's been a revelation.
You know, you can open a lot of stuff that I previously called were broken.
I can now go and fix some basically.
And what's the worst about it just that it's a kit or something else?
Oh no, I just soldered very badly.
I'm an engineer by trade so I tend to approach everything like it's a two pieces of angle iron that needs to be welded.
Yeah, that's fine.
You can do that with a soldering iron.
You just got to remember have a nice clean tip.
Yeah, but it leaves really ugly, really ugly solder joints.
Lots of solder.
That's the one, yeah.
It's easy to fix though.
When you have those, you just touch them again with your soldering iron and it should suck up on to the soldering iron.
Or you can use another piece of wire and heat that and touch it and it'll wake up into it.
I got, you know, some of that braid stuff that you can use.
Yeah, I've seen that.
Yeah, I've seen it. I've never used it.
Well, that actually, my boss from work,
giving me lots of tips on, you know, I basically went to the, went to the website and ordered all the stuff from me.
I just had a paper and I was thinking what that braid does heat up.
So I didn't need to hold them on the pliers to take both the excess stuff.
But it's been, but that's been kind of cool because up until now, a lot of toys and stuff.
We have a policy here in the house that we don't have any broken toys around.
And so that means I have to fix anything that breaks or, you know, recycle it or whatever.
And a lot of the electronics stuff.
It's just a loose wire and you just go in and solder and then it's working or if it's completely useless.
They had a metal detector that was completely and totally useless.
So we took it apart and we used the buzzer and the battery connectors and the LEDs to make a burglar alarm in my son's room.
So when he goes through the door, a clothespin has got two tinfoil connectors on us.
And the pin comes out, pulled out of the door and the clothespin closes and then turns on the buzzer.
Oh, that's great. I remember doing that as a kid. Do you have like little thumbtacks in there to just use tinfoil or something?
Just use tinfoil. Yeah.
That's cool. I remember doing that.
Of course, the sisters then twig this and attempt to go past the door and push the door.
Yeah, that was the only problem when I was a kid with having an alarm on my room as my brother and sister thought it was fun to trip the alarm.
Yep. That's kind of their jobs really. It's not that they want to do this. It's kind of what they have to do.
But it actually made me think really that's actually the whole thing about being at home 2013.
I had this little trolley thing. I don't know if you know the all around here.
Anyway, the old ladies and the old gentlemen tend to use them to do their shopping.
Do you know those things that you pull behind?
Yeah, like with two wheels and a basket and a hand.
That's the one. Yeah.
I got one of them for now that none of our kids are small enough to have a prom to carry stuff and go to theme parks or whatever.
We got one of them to put the sandwiches and stuff in on the colds and the rain here and the one of the times when we're going down to theme parks or you know, going out for a day.
So I've used it to go down to LHM to carry all the kids, you know, the laptop and the recording and the stand and the banner and everything.
And of course, exactly the furthest part away from the car, the thing broke.
So I was going around. I was thinking, okay, these guys.
There's a lot of hackers around here and makers and stuff. They're going to be able to help me fix these wheels.
And I was kind of thinking more along the lines of, you know, get a piece of wood and you know drill a hole in it.
But the guys were focused on 3D printers. Every place I went to was like, oh yeah, we could print that off.
So I was thinking guys, there's more ways to fix stuff than using the 3D printer.
And what do you think about that? Is that like, is this like, I've got a hammer and the whole world's a nail concept or?
Yes. In a word, yes.
So actually, I was thinking for HBR here, it would be a pretty cool, you know, segment for people, you know, stuff I fixed.
And I must say I get an immense buzz out of the stuff that I fix.
And you bring it back to life, the toy. The song has got this crappy dinosaur thing.
It's like, it's got a trigger thing that it's a Tienosaurus Rex with this massive began.
And you pull the trigger and his mouth goes up and down.
It's basically pulls down a thing and there's a spring in his mouth and it goes rare.
And the amount of times I've had to fix that thing was Joel is now made out of a Ikea little pencil.
I had to use the soldering art to put a hold through because it was a little holder for the wire.
For the rover bands that went up between the trigger.
Don't use your soldering iron for that. You never get the tip clean.
It's a paper clip or something.
Now I use my, you know, my soldering, soldering pipes, soldering, not my good soldering.
Oh, right. Okay. I get it.
So let's be honest. Can you use your wife's clothes iron?
I just use the screwdriver and put it over the over the gas. How about that?
There you go.
A little like ice screwdriver, right?
A little like last screwdrivers?
I have this pointy thing. It's like a murder implement number one exhibit.
It's from my father-in-law. It's like just a spike with screwdriver handle.
There's probably a technical term for that. You guys probably know.
I have one of those. It's the most useful thing out.
I didn't think that I didn't think you meant EYE there.
I thought Ken had gone to the dark side and bought himself an ice screwdriver to go with his iPhone and his iBook.
Oh, man. Oh, that would be a dark place to go, wouldn't it?
Well, he is a doctor who fan, I think, so it would fit.
Yeah, not so much.
Well, I used to watch, well, to be honest, I used to watch the back of the couch while I was on.
But now that you mentioned it in my spree of buy and stuff, I did buy this.
Whoops.
I bought this out.
I bought this very unstable paperweight.
Yes, I bought this screwdriver set with a whole go of those anti-lock screwdriver things.
It was only a tenor. It's a dapper.
No, they don't know. What does he mean anti-lock screwdriver?
You know, the screwdrivers that are deliberately designed that you can't get up on where you can't open your own stuff.
You know, the weird torque.
Oh, the star of the torx bit?
Yeah, and even more of the ones.
The four shoe ones.
Yeah, okay, there's tamperproof torx as a star with a hole in the middle.
The horseshoe ones are clutch heads where it's like a double horseshoe on an X or something kind of weird looking thing.
That's called a clutch head.
There's a couple others that I used to know the names of.
Exactly.
And that is the thing that I got.
That's proven very, very useful for all the reason that knowing that I guess into my own stuff that I purchased.
I've had to buy a few years ago.
I don't know what it's really called.
They refer to as a tri-wing, but it looks like a Phillips, but it's only three blades instead of four.
And that's to take a part in Nintendo stuff.
That's got one of them as well.
Pretty, pretty cool.
There's another one that I came up with recently.
It's got like two pins sticking out of the front of it.
And that's like for elevators who's a lot of that.
Not that I've ever had a need to work on an elevator, but I came with a kit that I bought.
You might have been handy around where I work because they need people to work on their elevators all the time.
Oh no, you need licenses and unionization to work on elevators.
I realize that.
It's just one of those things.
You got the tools, man. You can probably do it.
You can probably take care of it.
Just make sure everyone else looks away.
Yeah, well, I still would have been handy because I got the phone number, the guy who can come fix it.
Okay, what time is it now?
Are you going to be awake the whole 26 hours?
I'm not making any promises.
It's 5.26 am right now.
And only 33 minutes to the next time.
The pressure is immense on this thing.
Well, before it was just chilled back, the lack.
Whose idea was this? Anyway, it's stupid idea.
Yeah, I think it was yours, man.
No, I think it was yours, dude.
By the way, thank you very much.
I was all night writing the script for your thing as well.
You wrote a script for my what thing is that?
The thing that's the thing.
Oh, yes, just to do.
Oh, yeah. Okay.
Geez.
All right.
I forget what I put for a deadline on that.
I think I was going to get any more.
I've only got one so far.
Oh, cool.
Yes, that would be about right.
For participation until the last minute.
That is true, isn't it?
Although that said, you know, you think your last month was.
Didn't seem like there was any activity on this.
And then for the last week, there's been people just hammering away.
And life's funny.
It's like a box of chocolates.
I have to confess.
I have no idea what's going on for the past month or two.
I have just.
Every once in a while, I'd see an email come in and say,
okay, things are in good hands.
And I have stayed away from it because I'm really not any help.
I can't do anything, but just distract from setting up the servers and everything.
Even the first year that we did this, I had to have, I mean,
I had nothing to do with setting it up.
I asked everyone to help me out and they did.
So I have just kind of gone on with life and trusted that this would be here when I got here.
And it is.
Well, it's the next time for New Zealand or something.
Yep.
It's going to be Auckland in 32 minutes, 10 seconds.
It's like, good is bad is count on.
Yes.
So to answer your previous question, what's everybody been up to?
I have taken 2013 and used it as my year to become more of the outdoors person that I've always wanted to be.
And I've been just out in the woods and hiking and hunting and doing all kinds of stuff and being a better dad
also.
I've been spending a lot more time with my daughter and my wife at home as well.
Never a bad thing.
Never a bad thing.
So see who's in here or the zone kids are out for the entire day.
Yeah, one day is fine.
Everybody at my house knows that here's where I am today.
I think it's a pretty big day in the Netherlands.
A whole new year.
I think it's going to be equivalent to your fourth of July.
Oh wow, yeah, that is a big day then.
Which came as a bit of a surprise to me for somebody who lived in the Netherlands, for fireworks, are strictly for voter.
Strictly controlled.
Oh, the fourth of July?
No, they like people randomly letting off and letting off explosives around you.
Okay, I get you mean coming from Ireland.
Yeah.
Not that I was ever particularly exposed to any of that but it was.
We'll be falling under the classification of bomb making equipment.
30 seconds.
I was important to what?
30 minutes, surely.
Oh, yeah, okay.
I'm looking at the wrong thing.
No, no, no.
No, no, yeah.
At 12, 1230, right?
Yeah, now that's some of the time, but it's only because they got some by the moment unlike us.
Yeah, 11 11 as a 11 UTC is the next one.
Good, so welcome to half hour.
No, you mean 13 UTC?
No, I mean 11 UTC.
All right, on the hour, it doesn't matter.
It's far too complicated for this morning or my poor brain.
Yes, speaking of which, I'm going to step away from it and brew some coffee.
You go do that.
I intend to do something on myself.
If you're going to be awake, oh, oh, 26 hours.
You're right, maybe I'll brew two.
I went out and bought a pound of coffee not the other day, so we do this whole thing.
I have no intention of staying up this entire time just so you all know.
I need to do I.
I've actually pretty much did the whole 24 hours last year.
I think maybe took a 20 or 30 minute break at some point.
I think I'm going to be able to most of it actually this year, but later on because I'm carrying a bit.
Okay, cool.
So to go back to your question of what we did with this last year or what we would do that we'd been up to.
I've actually turned into mostly doing my website and stuff.
I've been doing a lot of music reviews and I've been running a music podcast now.
And I actually live livestream the show every week on the music server that we're using.
And just a lot of writing.
I've been writing up to six articles a week for my website.
Oh, cool.
Tell us about website.
This is great.
The website is called the cerebral rift and mostly articles are either music reviews or about electronic cigarettes or about nowadays.
It's mostly like about Bitcoin.
Can you paste URL into the mumble chat, which will be the show notes as I say for the second time.
Does I?
Okay.
The reason we're on key.
You know what I'm thinking of hacking off is a USB button.
Just a button.
That would give you give a key to a keyboard.
Like the mumble button.
That you push to talk.
What's right?
Hey, everybody.
This can with an idea here for some of your hardware hackers out there.
I would really like a external push button to put them on sort of mini breadboard or something.
To send a key for an exotic key, something like a system printer, print screen or something to the keyboard.
That's to the computer that we could use them as push to talk them wouldn't interfere with everything.
So also this year I have been doing a lot of fixing.
Yeah.
In fact, fixing toys and stuff.
My daughter had a doorbell, which is just a little wire that goes to the outside.
And then it's a flower that goes down.
And that broke, which was just a loose wire connection.
And so my super soldier didn't want to fix that.
And while I was at it, they had sort of like pen small pen type batteries.
And it was nine volts.
So it took back the power and those little batteries are very expensive.
So I connected up a big battery pack to it.
But then you had this flower hanging on the wall with this ugly battery pack underneath it.
So I've caught a plastic flower pot in half.
And I've made that into a holder.
And then we've some green thread around it.
So it looks like the flower bloom is on the wall.
And then onto this is a flower pot.
So she's very chuffed with that whole situation.
Turning a toy into even nicer toy.
Which is kind of the plan.
So if you've got any ideas like that of stuff that you fix to put together.
So I don't do record a show for how to put it really.
We were also asked by 5150 to make note of the fact that the archive.org project has a special donate one.
And somebody will donate three.
One to three donation thing to get.
And tell them raise money for their.
Fire damage calls.
A sometime back there they have a large center where they use high quality scanning equipment.
To scan in archive documents for the greater good.
And if you don't know what archive.org is, those are the folks who provide a lot of podcasters with their.
The archive material.
So if you got to create the commons.
Materials and simply upload it there.
And they will serve it up.
They do the way back machine.
And they're basically interested.
In making sure that the Internet as we know it is not lost forever.
They did not work with getting the geocities pages running when they.
Shut down.
Sorry.
I was going to say they also established a digital archive for like all of the online materials of Aaron Swartz when he passed away.
And they've been a lot of musicians.
Not just the podcasting community, but a lot of like bands and musicians and that actually allow.
There are audience members to record their shows.
And a lot of the recordings of those shows are actually hosted on their site.
As well as them basically supporting.
Anything that's going into the public domain or anything that's creative commons going out there.
So they're keeping the.
The public accessible materials wide open for people.
All in all.
All in all pretty nice people and doing a fantastic work.
And what that actually needs to be done.
You know, the whole copyright thing is exactly what it says.
It's a copyright.
It's a right to make copies.
And that right is given by somebody.
And the somebody is their people.
The souls.
You and the governor of your goals.
And so there's all intellectual property thing is actually not intellectual property.
It's an intellectual intellectual lease that we society gave companies.
So don't be.
You know, let's be very clear about what's going on there.
And that lease is for a particular period of time.
And what you see is that when these works go out of days, they.
The people who own the copyrights don't even have copies of the media.
And they're not concerned with the fact that that's media gets into the public domain forever.
So there you go.
That's what they do.
Unfortunately, they had a fire which burned down their high quality scanning center.
So they're raising money for that.
So if you want to support them, there's a link will be pasted into the mumbo chat per here.
And you can.
You can go over to them.
It's apparently easy to do.
Go to archive.org and you'll see fundraiser on the main page.
Yeah, and the direct link for those who want it is archive.org slash donate slash index.php.
Geez.
I hope they had some insurance.
They did have some insurance, but it wasn't going to cover all of the expense.
No, it never does.
Yeah.
So they managed to get quite a bit of money, you know, in fund raising after the fire.
But they still want to make as much, you know, get as much money as they can to support their services and keep going.
Absolutely.
And, yeah, either in any event, no harm thrown them a few shackles.
This time of year, anything left over or tax time, as you say.
I think they're actually as well as these.
John made use or campaign fundraiser.
As is the issue.
And last week, speaking of cool tech things we did, we made a microscope.
What?
We made a microscope.
Yes, we did.
How on earth did you do that?
Like, shall I get the kids in to tell you about that?
Yeah, why wouldn't you?
Give me a five.
All right.
We can give him five while he's doing that.
How's everybody brewing their coffee today?
I've just got an automatic drip maker at this point.
I figure it's better to just be able to pop a pot on and be able to get the coffee as quickly as I can.
I don't even drink coffee, but I do like tea, so it's okay.
Oh, that's cool.
Yeah, we switched over to a percolator this year.
We're liking that.
It makes it slightly better than drip coffee, and it's not.
It doesn't seem to be much more work.
Okay.
We're joined by.
Thank you.
What about coffee?
You can't hear, yeah.
All right.
Let's try that again.
Can you hear us now?
I can hear you.
Can you get closer to the microphone?
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
She made.
Hello.
I'm Russian.
Hello.
I'm Boslik.
A better?
Yes.
Thank you.
Much better.
Okay.
Now, what did we build?
A microscope.
A microscope.
What does it look like?
A table.
A table.
A building.
Yes.
It does.
Those are both correct answers.
It's got a piece.
This is actually from an instructable link.
If you just give me one second, I'll paste it into the show notes.
And they had a thing where you could make a microscope using a lens from a laser pointer.
Except the lens.
Except the lens.
Yes.
7.
9.
9.
9.
9.
9.
9.
9.
9.
10.
10.
10.
10.
10.
10.
10.
10.
10.
Okay.
I'll paste it in the chat.
The link.
I'll paste and say.
Okay.
So basically, one of these is a piece of, it's a piece of, I use, they have marine ply, but I use MDF on the bottom.
three bolts that stand up and at the very very top of the bolts the bolts are about
I don't know half three four inches 20 millimeters or something like that about the size of your hand
tall and there's a perspex plate up there with a small hole drilled in it and then underneath that
hole there's another little plate that you put the exhibits on the exhibit on and then we took
the box we took the lens out of there yes the laser now in the video it says it's really easy to
get out but wasn't really easy to get out how long was Daddy doing this really long no
about that finger when he was doing this as well so the exhibit place goes up and down and you can
put your you can you take out the lens out of the LED and you put your smartphone over it and then
you can see really really really close yes what did you look at you have to talk into the
I looked at coins and I looked at stones yeah what did they look like there lots of little
even though there were nice and smooth stones there lots of holes yeah but I have a look that
an knowledge stone which stones in it oh wow you can like the moon oh it looked like the moon I
looked at my stock did you want your sock yes and me too I very very smelly no I what I
you do we look at a feather as well did your microscope make this deep make the smell look bigger
no I was picking off by itself no it wasn't I'm on oh it did poke by the way he was the one who did
the episode on the fire place outside we did that outside as well this year cool we lit a
fire outside yes and you all got to practice putting it out on stuff yes yes and you got to
practice liking this as well from a safety yes yes and what did I fix for your room a doorbell
is it cool yes and what what what's different from what was before it is now a flower that doesn't
need water pretty handy and what do we have to make for yours what did I promise you we're going to
make a doorbell have we done that yes no way have we got a doorbell too aha okay and I have a
alarm yeah my dish can oh an English come on I heard alarm yes what do we do with the alarm what's
wrong with your alarm the battery full of the wall yes after all but it keeps hanging yes falls
off the wall because we held it on the wall with what blue tack blue tack not quite tack that's
right not the most structurally sound stuff okay anything else that you want to do did you
guys look at any salt with your microscope no we have a I bet salt would look very interesting
if you looked at that should we look at some salt and you should look at if you get a change in
the springtime you should look at some butterfly wings so I bet those look cool too but
we have a minor technical issue at the moment the daddy forgot to glue in the lens
and now the lens is somewhere oh no but it's okay another laser pointer so I can butcher that although
that is a cool laser pointer that was a cool laser pointer though we can sign up buildings and stuff
for that okay say hello to everyone say happy new year to everybody and happy new year happy new year
yeah we haven't seen my tooth no we have to look at your tooth as well maybe while I'm on the show
I'll take out the lens of the other one just don't take out your push to talk finger we need you
hey it looks like we've been joined on the stream by 5150
we don't get too used to it I just set the alarm to get up in the middle of the night so I could
jump in for a few minutes present presently I'll return to sleep mode a couple things I want I
wanted to bring up if if you guys haven't talked about it we came up with the idea of the
over the weekend of a of a shared document pad so whoever's on the show can kind of make
ongoing show notes like I just I just made a note that kid was talking to his kids about Christmas
and of microscopes and stuff and that's and that was that's been fried by Russ Woodman
and I'll I'll post the link into the mumbled chat but it's located at hpr.epad.blackspearomedia.net colon
9000 slash one
50 you've brought your best sound quality ever what did you do well then this is the new new microphone
it's fantastic it does sound pretty cool 5150 I've just added that up at the top
so in between the by the way there's a link to this on the main hpr.page so there's a link to the
shared documents if you're on the main hpr.page and you'll see listens aug stream MP3 stream stream
information and then there's a link add your text segment to the schedule if you click on that
it'll bring you directly to the documents that 51 is talking about and if you're adding
show notes can you just add them in between the hour sections as we go along and we can
reconstruct where we are today
okay I guess I I didn't see it when I went to bed last night
no that's because I was in bed and I added it this morning
this microscope is brilliant can I like it yeah it's a it's a nice idea um I think
you know I was surprised to know how good it is how easy it works now part two actually I mean
all I did there was um you know just copy the guy's instruction
and so but part two of this whole thing will be to link up a raspberry pie because I got a camera
module with that and that's got four little mountain holes over so you can imagine just bringing
this into school um putting the HTML connector in and have their smartboards have a display on
the smartboards in school you know for rather than having an expensive you know 200 300 euro smart
phone that they're all trying to control you have it on the on a big projector in in the classroom
and the kids can all sit around and get access to this thing nice nice now I the part I'm interested
in is which table did you drill through now moving on we're nine minutes 14 seconds
well okay it's a funny it's a funny thing right they um oh oh thanks sweet school
nice project uh the funny thing is we uh didn't met a deliberate choice in our choice of
kitchen table we would have one that was uh pretty battered it'd be able to take life so my life
wasn't too distraught yeah very good the kitchen table that's terrific now you you do
from now on you're gonna you're gonna put a block of wood under what you're drilling
no I did I did put a block of wood on the you went right through the block of wood too
yes I did sir very good do you there's uh such a device uh known as a drill stop are you familiar
with others yes and I actually have one okay and if you don't have one you can use a little
piece of electrical tape on your drill bit that usually does pretty good to stop it if you're not
determined to drill right through your back or in into your kitchen table oh these are
I love it man it's great
well this microscope is actually pretty uh pretty good I was very very surprised
as it worked out so well we did
hey go ahead I was gonna say I had no idea there was a lens like that inside of a laser
yeah I think all the R is just LEDs and they focus the the focus of the lens
yeah yeah that's I thought the LED had you know whatever focusing was required I figured it
had it built into it but I guess not
well uh actually I got this on delix string the laser pointers and then the wood
we just got the hardware store they the actual block of MDF I went down and asked them
do you have any I'm doing a kids project for school do you have any blocks I'm looking for some
prospects yet on the blocks and yeah just oh yeah here it's you know it's small enough that
they're bound to have some awkward yeah I was gonna say the looking at this thing the size of it
if I went and asked at my hardware store they'd just give me a scrap piece that someone else had
thrown away yeah I mean and the whole the whole concept of the first big thing at the top
doesn't really meet all the needs is to be big enough to something to drill all to
right right and I like the uh that the I don't know what you call it but the the slide that you put
your your your slides on I like the wing nuts there to raise it and lower it for focus
okay the only thing I noticed with the mind is that I it's a it's a little bit wobbly because
it it tilts forward and back a little bit so what I do is I hold the specimen and tray table
whatever shelf let's call this specimen tray and then you lift it up and then you can use your
fingers to tighten up the wing nuts yeah I have you tried putting a bigger washer on there
man might keep it from tilting yeah I got two little uh springs uh which I need to add
oh good thinking that's a good idea to put between the glasses yeah exactly I don't know if
that will help an author um another thing you could you could use is just a bulldog clip to raise
as a norther look if it's not and it's what's kind of cool about it is the the kids just
immediately got the idea you know they immediately understood what was what they needed to do
and the only thing that was worrying me was I've got this form and uh I'm sure worry that it's
gonna break which is why I want to put the raspberry pie on this now do you have the light from
the bottom like this one has or do you hold the flashlight on it or how do you how do you
illuminate it I had the light from the bottom but um I put a just a desk lamp inside just
and just shut it in but mostly during the day it's more than bright enough to be able to see what's
going on I mean that's that's just such a good idea I'm going to have to try to implement that
for one of my daughter's science projects this year yeah I'm really interested in what they uh
I've got the pie already here and then unfortunately the lens with missing which
anyways you have you have that sort of technique and then uh because that's got a really really
high quality turn on uh you know for 25 put so all and all under 50 quid you've got the makings
of something to be able to project for well under under a hundred dollars you've got a lab microscope
that you can put high resolution images on you know full HDMI in the classroom and also if it
breaks who gives us yeah yeah it's not that no do you have any idea what the magnification is yeah
40 to 80 wow because you can also then zoom in with the phone as well so oh yeah okay right
the digital zoom and they've taken the loads of pictures as well and you're just going
around the house going ooh I suggested table salt because it's a just regular you know table salt
is a cube crystal so it's really neat you they'll they'll all look nearly identical
ah I do not know this we only have sea salt yes about the same a lot of times when you have the
the bigger um pieces of salt that when you know if it's not you know ground up fine what you'll see
is that there's it's still cubes there's just little cubic pieces chunked out of it
ah okay I'm going to have to soon to this end of a very very lucky in the video that of the guy
it's like you push the pencil through and the thing with pop out and with disassembly this thing
is encased in a brass mount at the top there is an age is trying to get it past over the hex
by the way laser pointers of cool in general yeah they are that's the problem with buying
something that was too good to actually use for this yeah I'm trying to look now to it's just my
favorite I think in the world laser pointer especially when I found out that I I was worried about
them you know I'll have the three kids the first thing they're going to do is look at them and then
you know get blinded or whatever but apparently it's it's just like looking into the sun it's not
good for your eye but your eye they will cover yeah my first thought when you said you take the
the lens out of a laser pointer I'm going wait I don't have a laser pointer I want to take the lens
out of I like all my laser pointers well luckily for me that I ordered two and one of them didn't
work from the world go so I got there you go nice I would like to order a broken laser pointer
I'll tell you what I just ordered a very very high quality and very cheap laser pointer
and I tell you what a good source for him is NC star laser pointers that are meant to be mounted
on handguns from Amazon I think I paid like 12 bucks and that's one of the most focused red
lasers I've ever seen so that's a great little lens then if that's if that's the difference is
the optics I will be interested to see what we can all do that actually guys
no
happy new years haven't heard
remember on the Geeze leg Blake was notRS
And it's a Happy New Year to Oakland.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year, Oakland.
Whoo.
And welcome to New Year.
And welcome to the show.
Go over to.
Oh, I'm not staying long.
I'm going back to bed wherever I belong.
We all go over to bed.
Oh, come on.
Dude, it's 4 o'clock in the morning here.
It's just 5 o'clock now.
I've been up since 3.30.
Here's a cookie in a hug.
Shh.
Don't say 3.30.
He'll hear you.
Oh, you said what I said, yeah, you've said it twice one more time and he's bound to
show up.
3.30, 3.30, 3.30.
And the next one is in 59 minutes.
I'm going back to bed.
I was just popping on to make sure everything was golden.
Thank you.
See you on a couple of hours.
Happy New Day to you.
Oh, very soon.
I'll be right back.
I'm going to go pour my coffee.
Do that.
For the show notes, I'm just putting the lines through the stuff that we've come through.
That's him OK, 5150.
Or is he gone?
No, I'm here.
Yeah, I'm just scrolling back to.
I see what you mean.
You've already got the stuff set up ahead of time for every time we cross a New New Year's
day.
So, drop it in between there and there at the end.
Yeah, exactly.
It just makes getting it makes putting the show notes together a bit easier.
Yeah, having it in line will be easier to figure things out.
Cool stuff, cool stuff.
So 50, how have you run the cable out to your shed yet?
No, it's still Wi-Fi between here and the shed.
I was thinking about that.
And you know why I was thinking about that?
Why were you thinking about that, Ken Fallon?
I was thinking about it because I too have a shed not as far as yours, but as even if that's
the effect the highway.
And I was, I've been thinking about this for quite a while.
Why not just run a piece of garden holes with a wire inside it.
You can have cable inside of it.
Yeah, that would probably be adequate protection.
And a tip that we learned from Good folks at the Baron project is to form it in with the only
problem you might have is mice.
Well, you could probably use that like expanding form to actually seal off the ends, yeah.
Well, so partly what their tip was to use to get a brule pad, you know, those metal pads for scrubbing, you know, a ball of wire.
Yeah, yeah.
And took that around the foam and took that around the cable and then foam around that so that when the mice go to chew on the foam,
they come up against that wire and then they don't want to chew it anymore because it cuts the, yeah, it cuts the guns.
I know that sounds cool, but they don't die at all.
Oh, no, yeah.
A little cut like that is not going to hurt them and that will dissuade them from actually chewing on it.
That's actually really cool.
Funny thing was that I was actually thinking about 5150s cable the other night when I was actually running a 25 foot coax cable in my house
here to actually try to figure out what was wrong with my cable modem.
You just simply cannot be having structured cabling in your house.
When I moved in here, I put in with 100 year old house, actually it's more 120 year old.
And 14 year old, but a little bit.
14 year old, you know.
And we had to completely redo it.
So I put in cable empty cable tubes to the meter.
The meter cast is the color.
It's a central location.
And quite a lot of them are populated now.
And I got to give you a bit switch recently.
Yes.
Well, the funny thing here is that they basically had run cable inside the house here for almost all the rooms.
But the one room I'm in actually has its drop on the outside wall.
And it figured out that this was added after the fact.
And they ran a cable outside and ran it all the way around the house, the long way around.
And then split off at the junction box outside.
So I thought, well, this has been up and stable.
Everything had been working really well.
So I didn't have any reason to believe that that cable was bad.
But I thought just to eliminate it, I'll go ahead and run to one of the other drops that was actually internally wired here.
And of course, that didn't make any difference.
So I basically proved out that the drop in my office here is actually just fine and dandy.
I agree with Ken, the importance and convenience of having too many little copper wires cannot be overstated.
Yeah, I'm kind of baffled why they didn't actually basically just run fish wire through the wall here when they wired the rest of the house.
Oh, no, it should have been done that way. I don't know why they didn't.
No, they never do it that way.
If you're building the house, you can do it that way.
But if you're Joe Schmuck, the contractor who installs cable for mega cast, you wrap the house, you put it on the outside where you can see everything.
And there's no risk of you drilling through a water pipe or high tension line or something.
That is horrible.
It is. It's bad, but that's what they do. It's industry standard.
When my, when my good friend, who's been older than I am when he first got internet service to his house, which wasn't that long ago, cut to two, three years ago now.
I went there, I went, he told me the day that I was coming and he asked me if I'd be there to make sure that it all got hooked up and installed correctly.
When I got there, I said, you know what, we should just drill the holes in the house to put this wire where it belongs.
Because otherwise, you know, this guy's stands the chance of not doing it right or even if he does do it right, he's not going to do it the way that you'd want him to do it.
So we did exactly that. We drilled holes for the guy and he was in and out of there in 15 minutes and was thrilled that he didn't have to actually do any real work.
And we were thrilled because everything went where we knew it belonged.
Yeah, that's the problem with moving into a place it's already pre-wired and that you don't necessarily know where everything is when you move in.
Yeah, and all this stands true for, you know, your, your networking cable or your, your coax cable or even just your electricity just having wires, you know, put in, put in twice as many as you think you ought to have because it, you know, might cost you an extra hundred bucks or 200 bucks at the time of install.
But if you got to do it down the road, you know, you're looking at a much bigger bill than that.
Absolutely. Another tip if you are doing is photograph video, everything. And when you think you have your stupid that you're taking too many photos, you're not.
Take more.
Yeah, certainly.
So happy New Year, guys, it was 10 to 1, 2014 New Zealand. So happy New Year.
The first guy was actually in the new year that we've talked to. Happy New Year.
Yeah, I think he's the first person to see it. So it's probably why it's so good.
Well, how is 2014 so far?
I think they show up to you just too rough. No, it's not too bad.
Just in the white one will work behind. She was supposed to make it at 10 o'clock.
So we just, um, I've just been, I still want just, um, just, um, and he ever since the years.
It really so good.
Fantastic.
Well, since somebody has to say it, I might as well be it, how's the year the Linux desktop has come true yet over there?
All right. No, I mean, I'll be in the next one. So she has some, for sure.
Um, I might be, does she ever see what happens?
Oh, I drove bird off like that was bad. Maybe I shouldn't have done it.
Sorry. What's your favorite? The Linux desktop of the patient wave?
Linux desktop of the year. That's interesting.
The one that works.
Sorry, it's a new one for me. Sorry, it's not too bad.
Um, I thought the battery feeding went well. No, it was a good release.
I'm still using XSE and I really don't care what distros under it anymore.
I'm using, uh, I'm using razor cutie, but now they're merging into LXD.
So I'm switching most of my machines to LXD.
Um, my jar has been quite good. I think this year, I think they'll be interesting to see how that develops.
This time next year.
Tell us more of them.
You may want to try that again, a little closer to your mic, Ken.
Minjaro, that's a fork of.
Arch, but it's based off.
They tested repositories before they released that date.
So they tend to be tested a little bit better than that.
So they're still quite new.
It's quite an obstacle graphical, the store that it's quite graphical, um,
going for the, um, um, software.
So a lot of people that are getting into X through Mijaro,
because it's a lot easier to actually install like me.
So I mean, for me, I actually think quite a bit of Mijaro this year.
That is interesting.
Some will stay more than some of the others.
They're actually going off the Mijaro repos now.
So, um, yeah, it's pretty.
I've been interested to see what happens.
It's taking over it on distro watch as well.
Yeah, that depends on, um,
Arch doesn't particularly do a release.
So there's nothing per se to have people announce it.
So you need a little bit of pinch of salt when you're looking at the, uh,
just to watch.
Yeah, you do.
Based on, uh, page views.
I mean, I don't know how many.
Is it, was that my dreamer or how that like got to be third?
I've never even managed to get that installed.
So, um, it's a, that's one for me.
I got on the state.
I actually tried Mijaro earlier this year and, uh,
it was easy to install, okay, and everything.
I just, I just, I left, it was on my laptop and I left my laptop sitting.
Unplugged in for quite a long time and then went to try to update it and.
The, uh, package management had broken and everything and I couldn't actually get it updated when I needed to.
Yeah, the only, the only problems I've been having with the jar was that, um,
that was about six months ago, but they seemed to have fixed them.
But I mean, I, I just drop off all over the place anyway.
So, and I'm a new bum to use and mostly.
So, um, I kept one thing I can't, I can't, I can't get my head around as pb and pure db in.
So, do I have in this year?
Who knows?
Why not?
Just trying to get the packages and stuff.
I just want to quite had to find stuff and db and not just, um, even db and testing,
just finding Boko's cradle, finding stuff that I need, um, that I need to use.
I suppose if you know your way around it and how it works, it's easy enough.
I'm used to ppa's, I'm used to ban turns.
Just a little bit different.
Yeah, the ppa is not a particularly massive fan of them.
Because you're heading in to repo rpm hell, you know, something that opm used to suffer from before.
Just picking in random stuff from, um, all over the place, so.
I don't know, that's fine.
I mean, I only stored three or four bits of software.
So, um, three ppa's anyway.
So, I just find it's quite easy to find.
Like Boko's cradle, still not and you've done two repos yet.
No, I find that it's easy to find on a ppa.
Stuff like, um, you know, you know, start up the day,
virtual box will up to date, open shop, find CD or the ppa and mumble.
Getting a 1.4 is quite easy on the ppa than actually going through the repos.
If that's just me, I guess.
Okay.
What's in the, what's in the ppa's that aren't in the primary repos?
Just a bit more up to date.
Just sort of get the latest version like, um, not too, I mean, for a banter,
obviously, you know, there's better that says that.
In my opinion, I think it's just, it's just a bit cleaner, I think.
I mean, some people might disagree.
Yeah, but what's up to date?
What, what features are you getting for your trouble?
I don't know.
It's a hard question.
I, I, what do you guys use?
I, I've just been using Mint lately, um, just because it's, it's easy.
You know, it's, it's, um, I can get a, a good XFCE desktop on it.
And pretty much everything I need is there.
And it's all taken care of fairly well.
And I just, um, I threw it on there because I needed a quick setup.
And I just haven't bothered to change it back to anything.
I usually prefer, um, a, a, a, a quick setup.
Or, um, a straight Debbie and more than, um, an Ubuntu or a Mint.
But Mint was just so easy and it just kind of worked.
And I haven't had any reason to swap it out.
So I've kind of stuck with it.
But I do have Debbie and on a, a couple of other machines and, uh, Slackware on another.
So I'm a little of everything.
But I just, I'm with Ken.
The PPAs have always seemed to lead me towards trouble in the long run.
It's, you know, at any time I've ever done a PPA, it was for a feature that, you know,
I thought I needed and then wound up really not using or, or something like that.
Yeah, I do agree with the themes and stuff like that.
Three PPAs.
I can just stay away from that sort of stuff.
I think it's just still in how I've been.
So I'm not very advanced or what.
I much prefer that, um, Mint and Ubuntu myself.
I'll be trying.
Katie's been from Lutzview and me's been trying to get me to be an deviant.
But, um, I still get lost and to be in with those series.
I mean, other I've pointed that with his current series is running on, um, on, on YouTube.
But, um, yeah, it's just getting, trying to learn everything again for me.
Well, geez, if you've done Ubuntu and, and Mint, Debbie, and Zez, it's easier.
There's, there's fewer things in between you and the OS and.
Knowing what, what, with Debbie and what I do is I just, I don't bother with the code names.
I never bother remembering them.
What they are.
I just always use stable.
Yeah, but so what?
It's kind of everything you need.
Old Debbie and has, has pretty much caught up to everything.
Nowadays, there's, there's very little missing from Debbie and stable.
That I actually use even on my server.
It has all the current servers and everything works fine for me.
I've been, uh, I've been running savvy on here now for a bit over a year.
And I've had no reason to switch away from it at all.
I've, everything's been working really well.
I've heard the last, um, um, updates.
That's pretty good.
I've been, um, I know this day, if they just had a release on Distrawatch.
Yeah, well, sabayon is, is, um, that's based on Jentu.
So why wouldn't it be good?
You know, you've got all the goodness of Jentu taken care of for you with a, a distro with a package.
It's got an installer.
Hasn't it a package installer or some kind of.
Yeah, yeah.
They, they build their packages from the, uh, Jentu, um, portage.
And then basically provide a, a binary set of packages.
So, you know, basically they, they build and test everything before they actually ship it down.
So it's kind of like having that extra little layer in there where you've got, uh,
you know, closer to a Debbie and where things are actually pre-built for you.
But, uh, if you really need to, you can go back and get the source or you can go back up to the portage and get stuff from Jentu directly if you need to.
Yeah, excellent.
That's, that's the same thing, uh, or similar in concept I was using.
Actually, and I still do on my laptop, use Salix OS, which is Slackware with a package installer on it.
And they have some, some repos behind it.
Like Klaatu, he said he tried it and didn't like it at all.
And I'm, I'm not sure what there was to not like about it.
I think maybe it, I don't know, it didn't come like, uh, with full blown.
Sorry, Ken.
Sorry, Ken.
Anyway, yeah, it didn't come with, you know, like three DVDs worth of software like Slackware does, but it didn't come completely stripped down.
And, uh, and it's got a package installer, you know, it's some, some maintenance software on there.
So I'm not sure what he didn't like about it.
I love it. I love Salix.
I've been trying to, I'm sorry, Ken.
Ken, we're not here.
I hear my hear was through your connection.
I think he's got voice activation on and I don't think he might be having trouble with my mind.
Pokey sounds more manly through the microphone.
Yeah, muted candle, he gets back.
I can give him a hand if he needs some help.
Um, yeah, um, some of them.
Um, well, I actually think Slackware seems quite stable, but they haven't had many updates to Slackware lately, have they?
No, they don't, which is, which is a feature.
Yes, maybe because nothing ever breaks to give you what stable and it doesn't break.
Yeah, I guess Ken had to drop out and he stopped recording.
He asked us a few more of us could, could start.
Yeah, I've had my recording going this whole time, so it's, uh, it'll keep going to.
Oh, not the whole time.
Really better.
Yes, we can hear you now.
Very strange, very strange.
I was just saying I was running a Fedora mostly every year because, uh, some of you know cast panels,
let's talk about opn how and that was fixed and then I thought, okay, well, I'll try it.
And it has been fixed.
That's good.
Except on the Chromebook, uh, where I'm running Debian because there was a script that was installed, uh,
sorry, I'm running Ubuntu because there was a script that I wouldn't install on Ubuntu.
And it's my daughter's PC, so I thought, okay, I put one for her.
Oh, remind me, next time we changed the subject, I want to talk about the Chromebook a little.
Just put it added to the show notes, why don't you?
Because it's way off topic.
It's not actually about the Chromebook that I want to talk, but it just keeps reminding me of something.
We have 26 hours to fill in my turn.
Yeah, I just don't want to change the subject while we're rolling, talking about our favorite distros.
I think you already did change the subject, so let's talk about the Chromebook.
Okay, so it's not even the Chromebook that I wanted to say something about.
It was this commercial that has run over here that I saw.
And I don't see a lot of TV, so I don't know if it's, if it is a very prolific commercial,
but I did see it once where somebody goes into a pawn shop with their laptop,
and the woman's asking how much she can get for her laptop.
And the guy kind of frowns and shakes his head, know it or he goes,
I could give you money for it if it were real laptop, but this is a Chromebook.
It's not worth anything. And then she can't go to like Jamaica on her vacation
because she can't sell her laptop.
And I just thought what a horrible statement about the condition of our economy
and society right now that someone has to sell their laptop to go on vacation.
How irresponsible is that?
Actually, there's a little bit more to that advertisement because there's a double tie in there.
That's actually the guys that the pawn shop are actually on another TV show called Pond Stars.
So it's kind of a catch play on that.
And yeah, it's actually a Microsoft ad.
That's what you're referring to is because Microsoft is trying to say that
Chromebooks aren't worth anything and to go by their stuff instead.
I knew the giant evil corporation behind it.
I wasn't going to pay them any lip service.
And I didn't know that it was tie tying with that Pond Stars,
but I assumed that it was.
That is a strange thing to me. That will be a close.
Guys, I don't mean to interrupt.
I was listening to the on-stream and it just went quiet.
I don't know if they lost it on the source.
So if I lost it on the server.
Checking now.
Thanks, Bert.
Yeah, you've got a lot of background noise here.
Are you on the road there, Bert?
Sounded like either road noise or laptops, internal sound card noise.
Of course, back to the ad.
It's unfortunate that all about the only big giant corporation representing Linux
would be Google.
And of course, since it's about their Chromebooks.
I mean, it's too bad they won't spend a little bit money to have somebody
bring a Windows laptop in to try to sell it.
And they open it up and it's got the BSOD on the screen.
We've got a problem with the streams.
The empty three streams down on the on-stream is not working.
First, there's a few people asking about my likes today.
I'm wondering if it's to do with the server must have been recently updated to 1.4.
Some people on level 1.3 like the other talk.
This is part of the stream.
I'm on 1.2.3 and I'm doing OK.
So I don't use 1.2.3.
Something something should actually can be used on 1.4.
Some people on the really old DBN might have trouble.
Some people have been to that.
Yeah, I'm on Mint, but Mint's, you know, 1.2.
You'll be OK.
You'll be OK.
So who do we talk to about the streams?
Is somebody working on that?
Yeah, the empty three.
Probably do more.
Well, Kevin Wischer was doing 1 wasn't he?
OK.
I've got two of these of the MP3 streams are going.
Bob's and Cobra 2's.
OK, the MP3 streams are OK, but they look like the feeder into the on-stream with some work.
I'm hearing just static.
Oh, the bot's not here.
It wasn't there.
Yeah.
Yes, there was.
And it's not here now.
OK, that would explain that.
Who's running that one?
Mr Jackson.
All right, I'll pop right here and see if I can talk to him.
Come on, everybody.
Hello, love that.
So I know it's talking circle I would.
Well, that's great.
We're just in the middle of repairing the technical issues right now.
Keep talking, keep talking.
All right.
So I just sent Mr Jackson a text through the the mumble server.
Let him know that the augbot has left the building.
It may be a situation like we had last year where if there's not some text input or microphone key up or something.
From the bot that it may get kicked after I think it was an hour last year.
Yeah, but then it should be out in the other room.
It's just completely gone.
Oh, yeah, you're right.
I have his phone number.
Can you give him a call?
I've got his phone number two.
I also was trying to hit him on an IRC.
I can call.
Yeah, if somebody wants to send me a text message or a private message or whatever with that number, I'll give him a call.
I'll try a text him real quick.
Yeah, Texas probably better in a phone call at this time of day.
But if someone could PM me that number just so I have it later.
It wouldn't be a nice beyond poverty with technical issues with it.
Well, it wouldn't be an HPR party without fixing technical issues that's.
You know, those are just.
Yeah, that was just put in there as the challenge.
OK, I'm going to go get some coffee.
I need to be fixed back in a minute.
Well, I need popped in on my work break.
So I'll catch you guys later on something.
Well, please, Demetra.
Is that you, Poppy?
You sound like Poppy.
Sorry, it's Carol.
I sound like whom?
Poppy.
He's always around you.
He doesn't care.
Well, I'm definitely not them.
Do you sound like John O'Bacon?
I sound like John O'Bacon, really?
Well, the accent is somewhere.
The voice is not.
Oh, I'm British.
That's about the other thing we've got in common.
Say community five times.
Uh, no.
By the way, they have, uh, there's a city we show out called that voltage.
You all subscribe to that episode.
Yeah, it's good, Ashley.
I've been enjoying that.
Face out.
What's the face one of that?
Listen to the face one of that.
I like when you just said I'm British.
You sounded just like Professor Elemental.
That is, uh, he has an accent.
All right.
I make that a friend of my eating all the time.
Fetch me my fighting trousers.
I love this place.
Excellent.
I'm out.
I will catch you.
The Scottish guys that they their podcast, uh, Kelvin,
whether they call it, they're quite funny.
I'm worse.
I can't understand them at all.
Does he talk too slow for you?
Oh, it's just a Scottish 18.
It's quite strong.
Um, they are.
Yeah, it's quite hard.
Is everyone's talk fast like we talk fast English?
Yeah, you do.
That's kind of pointless.
You're in New York to find you know,
if you're down south,
south of Pat southern part of the US,
you know, we have trouble.
Let's pick it up really well.
The Australians are okay.
Okay, I sent Mr Jackson a text message.
And Poki, I went ahead and just sent you his phone number.
Okay, I got it.
Thank you.
And I got Kenny emailed it to me.
Also, I should have mentioned that.
Well, then you got it twice and now you can't lose it.
Yeah, I'm putting it in my phone right now.
I've just connected up my second laptop using your hand,
Mr. Hans free set.
From your thing, you know, a few years ago,
you connected up a Hans free radio,
retransmission thing to your computer
and never did the show about it.
Oh, God, I missed that thing.
Yeah, I never did a show,
because the hardware I used was unavailable.
At the time I got it,
it was already two-year-old obsolete hardware
and I couldn't find the second one.
Yeah, that thing kind of died on me.
I'm not sure exactly what caused it to die,
but I suspect part of it was that I was using it in the car.
And I was using it to play my MP3 player over my car stereo.
So I just had it on the dashboard
and it got really hot one day
and all of the hot glue that I used to put it together
melted through the thing and glued it down to the dashboard.
And it was a tremendous mess.
And when I picked it back up off the dashboard,
maybe I broke a wire or something inside,
but the hot glue had been melted into every nook
and cranny and crevice,
and I couldn't get the thing back apart.
And we just had word for Mr. Jackson
and the all-cast planet IRC channel.
He's checking on the bot right now.
Roger.
See, now you can you probably have better results with yours
because I don't think you have the same arbitrary power
restrictions in the Europe as we do in the States
with an FM transmitter.
Ars are limited to like,
I think it's like 300.
It might even be 200 millawatts.
Yeah, I know.
There are the same restrictions.
Yeah, that's like a foot and a half.
It is about as far as that thing goes,
until you, until you, you know,
boost the thing a little bit.
I mean, I couldn't get from my front office to my kitchen,
which is, you know, all of 12 and a half feet
through a couple of sheet rock walls.
It just wouldn't do it.
Oh, that's, uh, that's not far.
No, you got better.
I'll extreme back.
Yep.
And apparently the bot just died.
All of a sudden is what Mr Jackson just said.
Funny to see the graph of the MP3 versus the AUG stream.
We have a graph on if you go to heck of a radio stream
underscore admin, the PHP, I'll keep this up even if you're listening
to the show afterwards.
You can see that suddenly everybody,
all the AUG stream disconnects and the MP3 stream starts picking up yet.
And now there's the same number of people.
There's 15 or so people on the MP3 and there's many of the AUG.
We got 50 people listening on the stream already.
50.
Oh, 15.
30 people plus everybody, obviously, on the mumble.
15 is still impressive for this time of day.
Now wait, wait, wait, wait.
That wouldn't be everybody on the mumble,
because the mumble doesn't actually use the streams.
We're going through the mumble for this.
So we actually have 30 people listening to us.
Yes, I know.
Or we have 30 stream mirrors.
But I found out one of those people who's actually listening
is Peter 64.
I'm trying to shane him to join us on the air here.
Yeah, exactly.
Why is that?
Oh man.
Peter, you got to come on,
because I have a weird funny little story that you have to be around for.
He's saying, good day on the IRC chat,
but that is going to be a massive,
massive time delay if we keep doing that.
That doesn't count, Peter.
Get your Australian keyster on here.
He actually just said he's coming.
He's going to come in because you actually said you have something to tell him.
I think he was a key.
He just might find him the owner.
Would you say, Marcus?
That does tell me he's a Kaylee in here.
He just might find him the owner.
Yeah, right on.
And what did you say, Ken?
I missed it.
You still owes me a show on how to deal with non-flittering,
taking time to move all those outside.
Oh, huh.
That's interesting.
Yeah, you know that episode I did on dinosaurs.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, the dinosaur again just did stop motion animation.
And for a while, my camera,
I had the windows open.
So during the day,
as the clouds passed over,
the amount of light going into the camera lens increased and decreased.
So you have the weird flicker for the first part.
And then I just took turns in putting an artificial light balls.
Currently, Peter has a resolution 2000.
Good day, Peter.
Good day, Peter.
Good day, fellas.
Hi.
And happy new year, almost.
Hello, we got.
Happy new year.
No, no minutes.
So what happened to me?
It was a light.
Oh, my.
Twenty-three seconds.
Ten seconds.
He's freaking it out.
Peter.
Peter, check it out.
This guy Marcus is here.
He's all the way around the other side of the world from you.
He's, he's a New Zealand.
He sounds like.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a big difference.
See, it's people think we sound the same way.
She don't.
No, I have nothing.
You say more like a South African.
Yeah.
Really?
I was going to say I think,
I think Peter sounds more like me than he sounds like you, Marcus.
And I find Australia next.
It's quite strong.
But it does vary depending on where they are.
Talk to Katie all the time on voice check.
And he's.
He's.
He sounds awful.
Anyway, Kogi, what's the story you got?
All right.
This is.
This is weird.
This is just yesterday.
Okay.
I went out yesterday morning.
I went out hunting in the woods.
And for the first time in all the times I've ever been hunting.
I had a small game hunting.
Another guy showed up this old fella.
Just as I was walking into the woods and I stopped for a minute just to load my gun.
Because you can't load it.
You can't have a loaded rifle in a car here.
So you got a way to get out of the car to load it.
And I, you know, got just around a little bend and started loading up.
And I hear a whistle and I turn around and look.
And there's this fella behind me coming from the road.
And you know, the only reason he could be coming in here where I was at
is that he would be a hunt.
He wouldn't be hiking.
There's too much snow on the ground for a pleasure hiking or any of that.
And I looked and sure enough he was, he was going into hunting.
We stopped and talked for a while.
And then we walked and talked for a little bit.
We split off each one our separate way because he was, he was hunting for coyotes.
And I was hunting for rabbits.
And we took a fork in the trail in two different ways.
And then a few hours later, he came walking up the other trail.
So the trails must have met up again and looked back around because he came walking towards me.
And earlier he had been telling me he didn't want to go the way I was going.
Because it was too hilly for him and he's about 80.
So when he started walking back that way, I figured I had better walk with the old fella just in case.
If he's, if he's that old, you know, I'm, I'll walk with him just in case.
So we got back to the car and he says, well, you know, I, I wish you'd follow me back to my house.
He said, I have some old bow hunting magazines and I can't give them away.
So I can avoid everybody and everybody's had enough of them.
He said, but I hate to throw them away.
And he said, I'm not too far.
So I said, sure, I'll, I'll go on down and grab a couple of magazines for him.
He's a really nice guy.
Well, I got to his house and he starts showing me all these bows.
And he makes bows hunting bows, long bows and recurs.
And he, he brought me into his game room and he shows me a belt that's on the wall.
And he says, what kind of belt do you think that is?
And I looked and looked and looked.
And from the color and the length of the tail, I said, you know, that's got to be a mountain lion.
I said, the color's a little off.
I said, but can that be a mountain lion?
And he says, nope, that's a wallaby.
He says, I have a friend named Peter in Australia who wanted to learn to build bows.
And he came here and visited me and I taught him how to build bows.
And here's this picture.
And he showed me this guy's picture on the wall.
So he's got to fill up a buddy in Australia named Peter as well.
Yeah.
Who harmed protected animals by the sand of it?
Apparently.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And exports them illegally.
No doubt.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Good.
Yeah.
Wallabies.
Like I must have been.
I shot plenty of kangaroos in my day, but I'd never ever shoot a wallaby on my tray.
They just don't know even the similar tree.
Sorry.
I didn't understand that, Marcus.
What does that mean?
They just sit on a tree and just do nothing.
Wallabies.
Yeah.
No, sit in a tree or under a tree.
Well, just around the tree.
Just do nothing.
Yeah.
They.
I mean, they're a bit like kangaroos.
They're not exactly hard to shoot, but I don't know.
There's something about Wallabies.
There's not as many Wallabies as there are kangaroos.
That's for sure.
We have picked a bloody.
We have picked a club of deer over here in New Zealand.
My cousin goes hunting all the time.
Yeah.
I've been out shooting for ages.
Parking.
Have you joined packed, stewed bloody group on G Plus?
Each started at one geats with guns, I think he called it.
No, I haven't touched G Plus in probably two years.
Actually, I was going to say I haven't seen you on there in ages, but I haven't seen you in the chat either.
No, I haven't.
Yeah, I've been.
I've been in the big blue room a lot this year.
Yeah, I heard you had the start of the show.
I said this last time, but I intended to do more fishing and add door stuff myself this year,
but it didn't sort of happen this year.
So maybe next year.
Yeah, right on.
That's a good New Year's resolution to break in it.
Yeah, not wrong.
It's probably the bloody baby of the shit I think.
Yeah, I got into, got back into camping this year.
That was, that was good for me.
And I, a good, a good hackery project.
I don't know if Ken's back yet.
Ken would, would love this one.
Oh, I'll wait till he gets back then because he'll like this one.
But oh, no way.
He's listening.
I can do it anyway.
No, I learned to make hammocks this year for camping in.
And you, you bring a hammock out there and you sleep in that.
And you leave your tent at home because it's, it weighs let well in the summertime.
It weighs less.
But that's.
You've, you've learned to make a hammock.
Isn't that like you get a sheet and a string at between a couple of trees?
How hard is it to learn to make a hammock just as a matter of interest?
As a matter of fact, Peter, you hit the nail right on the head.
It's about that hard.
I expect a HPR on it.
Yeah, I don't know about that.
No, it's, it's neat because there's a lot of high tech materials nowadays that are like high strength.
And you can make a very, very lightweight hammock that's, that's huge and comfortable.
And, and, you know, less anybody take Peter's advice here.
Don't put two strings around it.
A couple of trees and try to hang from them because you'll destroy those trees.
You got to use like at least a one inch thick piece of non-stretch webbing.
I think I'm not nylon because nylon stretches, but it's something like that.
But there's a, there's a whole community of hammock makers out there.
And, oh, my God, is it fun to camp in a hammock?
They set up so quick and they're so comfortable.
And you will, you will never use a tent again once you start sleeping in a hammock.
Do you, um, do you like to use flags much over there?
Use what?
Uh, I mean, go pop and knock it.
You mean sleeping bags?
You might call it just for later.
No, no, not a sleeping bag, but the blotchy usually use what they call a swag.
And it's more or less, there's a sleeping bag, you know, a lot of them put bloody dooners and mattresses in them.
And it's more or less just sort of a tiny canvas, say, tent.
But it's only one person and it's, it's only a couple of foot high.
If that, probably only a foot high.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
And it's sort of open at one end and you might tie the one bit of string on it up to your bull bar of your car or, or just some low tree or something to create the opening at the front of it.
And that seems to be the most popular thing over here when you go camping.
Yeah.
They don't follow swags that I'm aware of and I don't think anybody would make one out of canvas.
But they do have small one person nylon tents and ultra light tents and a lot of cheese, a lot of bicyclers will use that because they're lightweight and you can get off the bike and sleep.
But a tent is going to be lighter than a hammock in the wintertime and a hammock is going to be lighter than a tent in the summertime because a hammock you need under insulation if it's cold out.
Why do you need a hammock for a new way?
Is that because of the spider's poisonous stuff that fall on the ground because we just don't get that over here.
Nothing poisonous at all.
No, it's just more comfortable than sleeping on the ground and you don't have to, you don't have to look for a clearing to lay down on.
You just, you need two trees and we got plenty of those.
So you can, you can sling a hammock over rocks or across a stream or over anything.
It's, it's really easy to do and you don't have to sleep on the ground and it's very, very comfortable and it sets up really quick.
It's it, I mean, I can set my hammock up with the, the bug net and the tarp and everything in about 10 minutes and a tent will take me at least 20.
You know, just even clearing the ground and everything and getting rocks out of the way it takes a while, but a hammock goes up in no time.
That is interesting.
And it's dirt cheap. My whole hammock set up.
I bought all the material for everything at like a craft store and it was all on sale for like a bucket yard and I really got lucky scoring the right kinds of materials there.
Like I found some, they call it sill nylon and it's what you can make at home, but I got lucky enough I didn't have to.
It's nylon that's been soaked in a silicone solution and then set out to dry.
So it's completely waterproof and it makes a nice tarp.
My tarp is like 12 feet by 11 feet, I think.
And it's a hexagon shape with what they call catenary cut corners or sides.
They're, they're a curve. So it doesn't flap in the breeze. It's silent.
And it costs me like seven bucks and you can go buy one, but they start around 120 bucks if you buy one.
I guess we don't need himx here because we've got hats everywhere like these always.
I think I've gone out brush a couple of times and we're not brush, but we just go to a hat.
They've got me very, very easy on like him. If you can't go more than a couple hours walk without coming across a hat to sleep.
I guess that's the way they've done it.
Oh, right on. Okay. So you're talking. Yeah. Yeah. The hostels, they'll call them over here.
Sometimes there's huts or if you're walking on a real established trail, you'll find like a palette.
But I mean, but the size of the country is different too. And I'm not usually sticking to established hiking trails if I'm going out.
I guess it's just the country. So it's like Australia is quite large compared to us.
But we've got a lot of what eat the space in the middle.
People go home hunting and brush all the time.
I guess it's just a little different. And the temperatures are a little different over the utilities.
Yeah, it's on my wish list to some day visit New Zealand.
Should go down South Island if you do go hunting over here.
I don't know if I would go hunting. I've visited New Zealand. I think I'd like to travel around and see more of it from what I've seen in pictures.
And my wife's been in New Zealand. She spent six months there just.
It's like we just love to see it. It's a beautiful.
Really nice drive this going from Wellington or and then hoping on the theory for Wellington is going right down South.
Just go right through the middle of the whole country.
And it takes you about six or seven hours.
Probably get problem up into Christchurch.
So anything to stay overnight and just drive down to you can drive right down the last South Island in the car.
Or you can pretty much see the whole country or once.
So it doesn't take a long time.
One thing that I thought was really neat that I learned about New Zealand is that you guys can just buy suppressors for your firearms without any problem.
So you can put them on any gun you want. You go hunt with a suppressor here.
They're they're highly highly restricted.
We've got quite big gun. It was a few.
It's quite easy to get a gun license.
If you know, if you are into that sort of thing.
As long as you don't don't show up on the police radar, you're normally fine.
And as long as you keep on the blocking key when you're not hunting, it's not a big deal.
I think my cousin's got a couple of them throughout the reason a couple of other stuff that he's got.
I mean, he used to hunt for a job.
So I'm used to hunt there for my helicopter when about ten years ago.
So he crashed actually.
It was quite sad.
I won't get into that.
He hasn't done it since.
There's actually a lot of helicopter crashes over here to deal with hunters.
But I guess that's just the way of doing things.
Geez, I don't know if I'd won a hunt from a helicopter.
It seems to been some very sporting to me.
I don't know how they do it.
But from one like gallon, there's someone with a gun that's on a helicopter.
Another guy flying.
Because it's quite a big bush.
They have to.
And there's tons and tons of deer.
And they're actually peace here.
So the government might stay actually hard.
People do actually get rid of them.
And I think that's mainly what they do.
They stink bush.
They do go hunting quite a bit.
And possums are the other thing that's around probably the piece that we've got here.
But there's nothing big.
There's these probably it.
So there's nothing.
There's no predators or anything like that.
It's pretty much just deer and possums and it's about it.
And that's a bird and it's about what you're going to give you.
Yeah, no, it's really easy over here to get a gun.
They're not, you know, they're not very restricted at all.
But to get a suppressor or some people come silencer.
So that's not their correct name.
But to get a suppressor over here, it's, I mean, it's a very expensive license.
It's a very arduous process.
A lot of paperwork to fill out.
And then once you have it, you can't use it for anything except for target shooting.
You can't hunt with a suppressor or anything like that.
But I know that over a New Zealand on a couple of the gun message boards that I've been on.
All the New Zealanders have suppressors on all their guns because they use them for pest control.
Yeah, that would probably be why.
You're probably going to go and sleep and do it.
So it's probably why it's legal.
I would say though that if you're not a hunter and not qualified to do that sort of thing,
it'd be pretty hard to keep some handguns that you just don't see in New Zealand.
I'm a mixture of, you know, I'm not a diva singer handgun.
So the police don't even use handguns.
So yeah, so you don't even see police with guns here.
So it's quite hard to actually get hold of guns if you're not actually license to have it.
Yeah, okay.
Now Peter, you're still on right.
Yeah, Peter, you said that hunting wallabies is illegal.
Is there was to protect it?
Yeah, yeah, wallabies. That's how a kangaroo is.
No leather shit kangaroos like farmers get telling licenses.
Professional hummers have licenses and they can shoot them and export them.
But wallabies as far as I know, no one's allowed to shoot a wallabie at all.
Now, okay, now I should clarify.
I don't, the guy didn't actually say that the wallabie came from his friend.
So I could have been wrong about that.
He may have got it some other way.
I just assumed that it came from his buddy, Peter.
But to me, it was just so hilarious that this guy had a buddy named Peter in Australia
that he met on the internet.
And you know, and the guy actually even came over here.
And this fella that I met yesterday, he taught Australian Peter how to make a bow.
So he made a couple over here and stuff.
And I thought all that was really cool. That was a good story.
You haven't had much bow, honey. You haven't been with a bud?
No, not ever. But after visiting with this guy yesterday and seeing his shop
and he put about six different bows in my hand to just try and feel them and feel the draw on him,
I think I might like to because they don't weigh nothing.
Yeah, I've been up the book bow hunting.
I tell you, one thing though, if you do go bow hunting, because I used to have a few compound bows
and recoup bows and that, you always have a mate with you when you go like hunting pigs and that
who's got a rifle that's standing there not far from you.
Yeah, well, if you're hunting pigs, you're better.
You have only because you get one and the bloody thing,
you spend all this money on graphite arrows.
And the bloody thing takes off with arrow hanging at the side of it.
Or he turns towards you.
Yeah, well, that could be a problem too.
I forgot, we get a lot of war over here.
So they get really big and they're quite dangerous.
So that's probably the issue and something I forgot about.
Yeah, you're much the same as us.
Like 300 pounds of war, war coming there, choosing hell of a lot of plant.
300's a little one, geez.
Yeah, well, hard to know.
I wouldn't want to tackle a 300 pound one, I don't tell ya.
She even read the fact that one of the comments, you know,
with the dog and you would have got those over in Australia, wouldn't you?
With the, you know, just to go hunting all the time on the phone.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was cool.
Yeah, me either.
I know the ones you're talking about, but I don't call with the cool dog.
What were they, Mr. First Part of what you said, Marcus?
It was about the sky.
It was about the stock, right?
The family's dog.
It was all basic, basic, based around the stock.
So, hunting all the time.
I just had these pictures of these huge pegs that I tried catch.
And it was really, it was very quite popular comic book here for a long time.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I'm a little, where I'm at in New England.
It's too far north for pigs.
I know we do have some wild pigs, but not a whole lot of them.
But down south where, you know, in like the Everglades and Florida and Georgia and all that,
where they have pigs, they are massive.
And I think 400 and 500 pounds is, is not even a small one for down there.
I don't, I don't think it doesn't sound like from what I've heard.
And they are nasty when they turn at you.
Yeah.
You used to be counting the ones over here in the States.
Well, they pretty much just stink.
We have them, but you, you don't see them very often.
And they're not too many of them here where I'm at because we don't, we don't have,
our moms are old and round and low.
I think my own lines are more prevalent out west in the, in the Rockies.
We do get some bobcats out here.
I haven't, I haven't seen a bobcat yet, but I have seen.
There's a, there's a weird animal called the Fisher.
And it's, I think it's a cat, but it's, it's like a, it's like a giant ferret.
And they, they look big too because they got long hair and they kind of bounce along and eat carry in there.
It's, it's weird because if the, if whatever's smaller than them, they're extremely ferocious.
And if something's bigger than them, they're extremely timid.
So it just depends on your size and where you're standing when you see them.
Three minutes.
What about beer?
A beer quite zero.
There are a lot of beer, although just at the North, like Canada type part.
Yeah, we've got bear up here.
We've got quite a few of them.
They're very timid up here.
We have black bears.
Whereas west they have brown bears or grizzlies, as they're called, but we've got black bears.
And they're, they're real timid.
So you don't see them whole lot.
I've only seen one and it was a cub.
But it was, it was quite close to it, but then you're allowed to hunt them.
The way we're up in Yellowstone, the way, the following way to black are killed by a bloody grizzly bear.
Yeah, grizzlies are, are pretty, they can be ferocious.
They're, uh, they're nothing to mess around with.
Yeah, we saw, we went to a bear pack and saw some, but yeah, it's not the sort of thing you want to run across in the wall.
No, I would not want to.
Like I said, I, I was real close.
Maybe, I don't know, some 10 to 15 yards tops from, from this black bear.
He was a little cub.
He came out of the woods.
He was probably 60 or 80 pounds.
And, um, that I wasn't, I wasn't nervous at all.
Everybody kept saying to me, well, what if his mother was around?
Well, okay, so what?
She's afraid of me too.
What's, what's the big deal?
Um, and I have, I have a buddy who's hunted bear before.
And he shot a, I think he said it was a 180 pounder.
It was just a small one.
But, um, the bear's got such thick meat on him.
There's so much meat on a 180 pound bear.
And it's very tasty.
It was great.
I think I'm going to have it.
It must be a taste lock.
Um, what's the, what's the make taste lock?
Ah, it's really good.
It's just, it's red meat.
Oh, all red meat tastes real similar to me.
I can't like a deer.
I got my deer this year.
To me, it tastes like beef with a little less flavor.
Cause it's leaner.
And, um, it might be a little gamey.
But I don't notice it.
I don't, you know, it's easy to cover up with a little salt.
They reckon, um, they reckon deer's actually been
when it is in the wild here.
They reckon it's completely different, um, time dear.
Um, like, um, when, when they put in the farms, bear farms.
They reckon because they're at the forest,
they can see different food and taste much better.
Yeah, yeah, I would say it just feeding it.
Different foods is going to be, it's going to be different.
And we got one minute to go here.
And we got to say happy new year to our next time zone.
And I'll look up and see what that is.
And you're joining us back in this weekend hunting.
And you're joining us back in this weekend hunting.
Oh, there's a Russian,
Russia in the Marshall Islands.
Is that it?
North Lake?
What are we up to?
We're up to, uh, small regions of Russia,
the Marshall Islands, and five more.
I spoke to a guy in soupie at once.
It was funny because I was speaking to an Aussie
that was having fruity degree temperatures at the time.
And he was in minus fruity.
It was a weird conversation.
Anadir, Funafoodie, Yarin, Tarawana.
And, uh, that's, that's fun to say.
I think that's Tarawol.
Tarawol, sorry.
I didn't say it was fun to say right.
I was so glad you're doing this.
Yeah, well, I noticed you stopped.
I was, I noticed that today.
Yeah, that's somebody had to screw it up.
There you go.
So the other thing we should do now at the top of the hour here
is talk about Orca for a bit and the Orca fundraiser.
Oh, man, I suggest before you do that,
uh, now would probably be a good time to stop and restart the recording.
Five.
Okay, I'm back.
And I'm back too.
Yeah, that's it.
It's from having to cut it in audacity and redo it.
Because I would be at your work.
And here at Hike Public Radio, we don't agree with that concept.
The W word, come on now.
We got to put an explicit tag on it.
E word editing.
Yeah, what's that?
Never done that before.
No, you haven't, Peter.
No, one time.
I keep offering to do it, but he never takes me up on it.
How do you put all the beeps in them?
I was going to say, actually, Peter,
one of the funniest things I've ever heard on a podcast
was the time that you, you bleeped out of swear using 5150s, uh, broken up.
Oh, yeah.
That can shit.
Yeah.
That was pretty good.
I laughed so hard at that.
That was hilarious.
Well, it's between that and, and, and using the didgeridoo as well.
Australian's answering is she'd be right.
So that's that right.
Well, it was funny because it was right about the time I was thinking, boy,
that would make a good bleep.
And all of a sudden, he used it.
And it's like, how did he reap my mind?
Two days ago.
Okay.
Yeah, go ahead.
We're talking about okay.
We, I think, soundly are going to get Jonathan on maybe next weekend, yeah?
So we can have a talk about his fundraiser.
Because I think it finishes on the 15th, doesn't it?
You know, I don't have the page up in front of me here.
Well, hold on guys.
I have an internet.
I'll check.
Yeah, it's just looking at myself.
But I'm pretty sure that's finished on the fifth.
Yeah, 16 days from now.
So we have about two weeks.
What's he up to now?
About 2,200 last time.
Look, what about 2,200 and something?
2275.
Yeah, I'm sure that's going to shoot up in the next 24 hours.
But I hope so.
You pick the worst time of year to do it.
I have to say.
Yeah, that's what I always think of it too, actually, Parky.
It wasn't a good time.
Has he gone over to me and Gia yet for Sona?
Do you know?
Don't know.
So these are all the questions we have to ask him on KPN next weekend, Sandy.
I should be on here today.
I'm sorry, I'm in the process of making my donation to his wonderful cause.
You go ahead and do that.
Right on.
And just to remind people, there is the opportunity to...
I'm just wondering why the streams are flatline.
You know, is that a good sign or a bad sign?
Why is it just correct?
Anyway, just reminding people that you can also subscribe to the accessible computer information.
For as little as $2 a month.
You can get the happy feeling of knowing that you contribute to a good cause.
Meanwhile, I'm trying to see if my scripts are working.
So with that, you get an ACF.co email address.
Help bridge the gap between accessibility and technology.
I like that line, actually.
Yeah, it's, you know, I don't know if anybody who's listening to the stream or anything.
I know a couple of you guys heard it because you talked to me about it.
I remember doing the show with Jonathan where I tried installing a distro without my monitor turned on.
Just using the screen reader to do it.
And that was very frustrating.
It worked.
But it didn't work as well as I thought it should.
And when you drive down a dead end road, there's no call to sack to turn you around and you kind of get stuck.
Yeah, it's a.
It's interesting actually the whole concept of.
You know, accessible computing.
There are so many.
So many things, you know, you could just have this concept of having the Raspberry Pi with just a keyboard enough.
And set headphones up next to the bed.
You know, well, you know, you're you're better off as a sleep.
And you're not the computer.
The computer is, you know, just with Orca.
It's just like you would like to use a Raspberry Pi 4.
But I think you could use it as a music player and then it's used to wait for the.
Well, I suppose it's quite useful for course again.
Yeah, similar thought can years ago, I thought an N810 would make a good screenless device.
You could carry around with you if you had, you know, some kind of input.
And they made some too.
I mean, I don't think anyone's ever seen them in the wild.
But I know for a little while, there was some buzz about like a wearable keyboard.
It was kind of like a glove that read your finger movements.
Actually, it was two of them.
You put them both hands and it didn't seem to interfere a whole lot with your regular motion.
But it would read your your finger movements.
And I thought that would have been great.
Yeah, I just, you know, lately I've been on my back a lot of course.
One reason another.
So I've been restricted to lifting less than two kilos.
So I can choose a regular laptop.
So the combo could be actually quite handy.
And that's on the two kilos.
But I was really thinking about the Raspberry Pi there for that.
If you could extend, if you could get used to it, you don't give me a terminal on the keyboard.
And away you go.
Not that I can touch that.
Less than two kilos.
You must be dying.
You can't even have your old type of clacky keyboard on your lap.
I hate those things.
Oh God.
You can just hand the phone.
The last piece of phone and be done with it.
Yeah.
The thing is you're holding it up all the time.
I, to be honest, up until, you know, I've had the, basically I had a back hernia again.
I had one earlier in January and then they came back again.
And so this time I'm doing it according to the book.
But I got a tablet.
I'm driving a hundred euros on one of the daily jobs.
And yeah, that's a respectful thing.
And the kids use it, of course.
I didn't really have a lot of use for it until until this.
And it's actually quite handy as a consuming device, you know, for reading the, the magpie, which is a great magazine.
If you've got a Raspberry Pi, download the magpie dot com or it's a dot org.
And it's like a little PDF that comes out every month's magazine.
All school type tips and tricks on what to do with your pie.
Boss.
It's cool.
Yeah.
But it's actually using it as the use case, but it's very frustrating if you actually want to do anything with your computer using it.
I was going to say that's, that's one of the, one of the things this year that's, that keeps bugging me is that, you know, it's spending more time really away from the computer.
It's spending a lot more time with like my cell phone and occasionally, like a tablet, my waste tablet and both of them, they suck at content creation.
You are, you are simply a consumer when you use those things.
It's like, it's like someone puts shackles on you, you know, you, you will consume and that's it.
And they're, they're not even good consumer devices because I've never been further behind in listening to, you know, my podcasts and stuff.
It's crazy.
Actually, yeah, that was amazing.
Actually, I'm not listening.
I've had to make a really stringent effort to guess listening podcast.
Then again, I've been working on the website for the last month.
So that's taking up a lot of the time.
I don't know how I'm walking around and lying down on stuff.
But during that whole thing, I was thinking, you know, a keyboard itself is fairly light.
And the pair of headphones, you could conceivably be there and navigate around the screen and do whatever it is you need to do with respect for screen need.
Yes, I believe you could.
I believe, I guess I think I got the idea from Klatu.
He had, he had it in mind a few years ago.
He was trying to, I forget if he was trying to set up an 810 for, or he was setting up a computer for a blind user.
And then he was trying to do something with his NA 10 and like it didn't occur to him, I guess maybe or didn't seem to and I mentioned why not just use an 810 as a wearable device screenless.
And it just, you know, I thought that would have worked great.
But the Raspberry Pi would work even better if you could figure out the battery just because it's got, you know, more inputs and outputs and better processing and everything.
Yeah, for me, I was kind of, because I've got a natural connection in every room.
I was thinking about having them in every room pretty much.
Yeah.
I don't know, it's just a, just a pulse.
Okay, so I'm going to go try getting an hour of sleep before I have to get up.
But you're quicker.
Remember, remember that for later when I had all two o'clock in the morning.
Yeah, right.
See you later, 50.
See you later, the day guys.
Everybody, happy new year.
Are you guys doing this for?
Like are you guys doing this for the next 12 hours or so?
20 or?
Oh, 20 or 12.
20, yeah.
We've got a way to do this every year and you do this for about 10 hours on the truck.
Like you just keep going.
No, 12, we did 12 hours the first year.
That was just a warm up.
We're up to 26 hours this year.
Okay, so how long did it go so far?
You must have been going a few hours.
So I came in here about 12 o'clock.
Two hours and 12 minutes.
Okay, go to the main website yet.
It's two hours, 12 minutes, 23.
Now, here's something that you might be interested in.
Mess around with raspberry pies.
And I experimented this with some of my camping this year.
Is we brought a big 12 volt battery with us.
It will a small 12 volt, but big for a battery.
Like the kind you'd find in an emergency light or like an alarm system.
You know, you know what I'm talking about, Ken?
Yeah, I do.
I do.
Yeah.
Yeah, okay.
So they're, I don't know what the capacity of them is, but they got a couple little like blade leads on them.
And you can just put some female blade lugs on there and connect wires to them.
And I took out my handy dandy soldering iron and I bought a like a cigarette lighter adapter.
And I just soldered some blade lugs on there.
And now I can just plug in, you know, whatever cigarette lighter charger into that and connect to the battery.
And that thing's got a tremendous amount of, you know, capacity.
If you're used to, you know, nine volt batteries and diesel batteries and stuff, that thing's just, it blows them away.
And we did that camp and so that we wouldn't have to plug stuff into the car overnight.
And you know, we'd have the car battery left over.
Yeah.
We charged our phones and tablets and GPSs on that thing for a week and never noticed a drop in power.
Did you charge it or just, it just stayed charged the whole time?
No, it's, no, we charged it before we left the house and it held that charge and charged all those devices all week long.
Wow.
Grab me a link, pop that into the show notes, please.
Well, there's, there's really no link.
It's just a battery.
I mean, there's a, you know, there's a million of them.
Come on.
Work with me here.
Work with me.
Give you an example of a battery.
Okay.
I'll let you know.
But what time, just a regular old car battery or is this a special super do?
I kind of imagine a regular old car battery would be able to maintain its charge that whole time.
Or of course it would.
Of course it would.
But this is like half a third of the size of a car battery.
This is not a big bet.
There's the kind of things that you get like with emergency lights.
You can get it from about 40, 45 bucks.
A sort of get me a photo.
Yeah.
All right.
AFK.
Okay.
I've just got an email from Fernando Bell.
Who is one of the developers working on the Orca project or connected with the Orca project.
And I'm just going to contact him now and see if he will be available to dial in for the show.
He's.
He will be able to do an interview.
That would be awesome.
Let's see if we can get him on.
So yes.
Lots of stuff for the Raspberry Pi that you can do.
Yeah.
Mine started in the cover for about six months or 12 months before I actually worked out what to do with it.
It's been running that weather station now for God must be in Bell 18 months I think.
And it runs on my home automation now.
Maybe we've seen one.
I've never seen one in the shop.
I've said that all the right hearing you feel on this to this slow.
I don't think you can order them in shops.
I mean, you can only get one.
Yeah, must be the biggest.
That's not looking hard enough.
Because I don't even know how much they pay here because I'd probably be about $60,000.
I'm picking probably a bit more.
They would be the $30 that you guys get before.
Well, the pros will increase when you start with the charger and the case and then you need to use the code and whatever.
But all in all, they're still pretty good value.
How much are they in Australia, Peter?
I paid together the I bought it from element 14.
I think I paid about 55 bucks.
Yeah.
It's not too bad.
No, it's pretty good.
But there's, isn't there like more powerful out there for about the same price these days?
Over in New Zealand.
We get quite a lot of goods from Japan and quite cheap and China quite cheap.
But any American stuff can be seen to pay through the roof for.
I don't know how that works.
Yeah, I think with the China, you seem to be able to pay stuff over here for a dollar,
where you buy stuff from the States and it costs you like 40 bucks.
It's interesting enough that it's still cheap.
I just had to buy a new curtain motor.
One of the motors that opens and closes my curtains cost $198 a year.
To buy it in the States and have it sent over cost $115 Australian dollars.
So it worked out one year.
I can understand by stuff from China or getting it cheaper.
But I can't understand why I've got to send stuff by stuff from America.
There's maybe in China in the first place.
You know, why it costs double bloody here in Australia.
And why if I'm here cost a thousand bucks?
I mean, on the States, I think they get them for about 200 bucks.
And the dollar is quite close to yours at the moment.
So I mean, it's not a lot different.
Yeah, I know.
It's all to do with this scale of economy.
I think everyone, like, how many New Zealanders are there?
Like, there's only 23 million Australians against 300 million Americans.
That's hilarious.
23 million Australians.
I think if that happened when you see one, does anyone want me?
Yeah.
And another quarter of them are bloody palms.
And God knows what else here.
Peter, I'd be willing to bet it's got a lot more to do with ocean currents than the scale of economy.
Just the way that the ocean flows, the boats get from China to Australia easier than they get from America to Australia.
Probably the jet stream too.
Um, they just got a pop up balloon up in the unit.
It's a jet stream that ends up in the States.
There you go.
And for anybody who was wondering about that battery, I used a size BP 12-12 battery.
It's a 12 volt 12 amp hour like emergency light battery.
And you could use a motorcycle battery, but they don't have the spade lugs on them.
And they would cost you two or three times as much as these little backup batteries.
Sorry, carry on Peter.
No, I think I finished.
I don't know what we're talking about.
Well, I think it's cost so much in the Southern hemisphere compared to the Northern hemisphere.
Well, that's what it seems like.
How's your water situation, Peter?
Actually, Peggy, for the silly bugger I am,
I'm putting a pool that used up like 28,000 liters, which changed right.
I never said I was smart, Blake.
So unfortunately, I had to buy it.
And then I bought it.
And because I still hadn't filled the pool, and then I pumped it all out again into the pool,
to fill the pool.
And I was empty again.
So I had to bloody buy it again.
So anyway, it takes the pool now.
And what is between Australian New Zealand's Australians get a lot of hate.
And it's why they're a bit crazy sometimes.
And what does it cost you to fill your pool, Peter?
Do you have to get that water from the States, too?
No, no.
Luckily, I just had to get that from Bateman's Bay.
Now, look, water's not expensive.
It is when you buy it in a bottle.
But when you buy a 4,000 gallons, I think I paid 240 bucks for a truck,
which carried 4,000 gallons.
I had to get two of them up here.
And I mean, it's not expensive doing a one sort of twice,
but I've had to do that seven times in one year.
What the?
What?
His pool, Ken.
He's got a pool.
I can write some of that seven times that he empty this.
What's the story?
No, Ken.
He doesn't clip his toenails.
So he keeps putting holes in the pool liner,
and he's got to drain it to fix it.
See, we just use a cat.
We just use a pillow and just fill it up that way.
But we don't go so much.
He goes too cold.
The first about four or five years,
Ken, we moved into this house, which is on,
obviously we don't have town water.
All that water comes from the sky.
Australia had the worst drought.
It's had 150 bloody years or something.
So we actually had no rain for about,
I think it was five years,
but practically didn't rain at all here.
It's about every sense, the last, I don't know,
besides the pool,
I haven't had to buy water for about six years.
I don't think.
Sorry, okay.
We don't have that battery here.
So you can put it on,
let me google that for you.com.
All you want, my friend.
But if I don't know about it,
I'm sure lots of other people don't know those types of batteries either.
Well, no, you've, you've got them there.
They're just special purpose batteries.
You have to go to a battery shop or order it from Amazon or something.
It's not like you got them in the store.
They don't, they're not going to have them at, you know,
Wally world, or I'm not sure what you guys have for big box stores over there.
But it's, you either get it at a battery shop or order it from Amazon.
One on one second.
What's the time in the States now?
It's must be getting early morning, wouldn't it?
Like five, six in the morning.
On the east coast, it's seven, twenty.
Yeah, and I'm an hour behind here.
So it's six, twenty here.
It's one, twenty in the morning.
What about you Peter, what time you get?
Um, eleven, twenty two.
So another forty minutes and it's news here.
Two hour time difference between us and the Melbourne,
to the east side of Australia.
Yes, that was dark because I got twenty two minutes coming up.
That's the next change.
No.
The north boat island.
You know, north boat islands come up in about eight minutes, isn't it?
Yep.
Small regions of Australia.
The north that is your one.
What was the part of the zero and north?
Adelaide and Broken Hill.
No, no, you missed a bit.
You missed all the east coast, 80% of the Australian population.
With Brisbane, Nelligan, Bateman's Bay, Canberra, Melbourne.
Yeah, Kingston.
That's coming up now.
Yeah, but it's that 80% that gives the other twenty such a bad name, Peter.
Yeah, six minutes.
Yep.
So Peter, if you're coming up on your New Year's, have you got Mrs. 64 and little 64 around to say happy New Year's to everybody?
Actually, yeah, they're good to work.
And she should be home in a minute.
She said they're working at the cafe.
And or my cafe.
She does the coffee and the McDonald's.
And she had to work tonight.
But she was supposed to knock off 11, but they'll be flat out.
Yeah, my wife is just big hanging.
She had to do a double shift to see the members of the staff.
And she knocked.
They decided they'd take the north off.
Hold on a minute.
Peter, you send your wife off to work at McDonald's to support your helicopter habit?
You bastard.
Hey, come on.
She don't work. She only works about bloody ideas.
Well, no, I bet I don't.
Maybe more.
I don't know.
She doesn't work much.
Yeah, hit the over in Australia.
Do you hear the what's the call?
It's something different.
Sorry, I didn't catch that.
You don't hit the working over the year.
Something else doing it.
I know how you jacks.
Yeah, we got the jacks.
I think because Burger King was a registered name here.
But how do you jacks?
Is Burger King or what Americans call Burger King?
Yeah, my wife is just a big hanging store.
So she was really busy at night.
It should be from six in the morning right through the team at night.
She's been here a busy day.
If I ever move to Australia, I think it'd be fun to open a Captain Kangaroo burger joint.
I saw a kangaroo service station over there while over there.
But I've never seen a kangaroo service station here.
Pokey.
We got pictures of it.
We had a guy over here.
He did a kid show when I was just a young kid called Captain Kangaroo.
Yeah, I remember the show.
Marcus, yeah, sorry.
What was that?
Because we get free burger King.
You must get pretty much free burgers.
You eat like hungry jacks all the time.
We just go and get the dogs.
Don't worry about the free burger King.
No, they don't.
No, they don't let it give away.
A girl got sacked the other day because she gave...
They get the staff discount of 10%.
She gave it to her mum and dad.
So she was honest.
She rang it up.
She got it just given it to him and they would never have known.
She rang it up but gave him the 10% discount and she got sacked.
My wife gets one for me or I think a day.
She never uses it.
We've seen that in the dawns after time.
It's late night about 10 in the fall.
The night is nothing else open.
So should we just go home to Marcus?
Yeah, I can't stand it.
I've got my neck off you but I haven't McDonald's.
Yeah, I'm right there.
I can eat burger King but like there's one hamburger there.
I can eat but I haven't.
There's nothing in McDonald's I can eat.
It's so bad.
And if I do manage to eat it, I throw it up after time.
Well McDonald's used to have the Magos with beetroot.
And it was the closest thing you're going to get in McDonald's
to something you check on the barbequeer.
But then they got rid of it.
It's funny because we hit the kiwi burger.
It's going to be the same thing.
See if I go to burger King, I'll get a junior whopper.
We're talking about real hamburger.
Three minutes.
Thank God.
Well, you know, Burger King also has some like actual grilled chicken
type things and stuff which is actually halfway decent.
And they actually have a veggie burger too.
Have only wrap here actually.
I'll cut it like a wrap.
Yeah, that's probably done.
The oldest thing they've got.
I can.
I did notice on the site there was schedules.
There was scheduled talks or something.
But when I wanted to click on it, the page would not open.
That's reloaded.
So what sort of topics.
Have you got scheduled for the next 20 years?
Do you know?
Food.
We didn't talk about food.
I don't want to two pen file managers for about 16 hours.
And then we're going to talk about food for the best.
I don't want to interrupt anyone.
So I know nothing about what's happening.
So I'm.
I mean, I don't know if you want me to jump in or be quiet.
What do you think?
I'm happy to discover.
I don't know where I'm looking.
I want to call out Poki.
Poki is out here right now.
Poki.
You.
Oh.
What?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Mark.
The rules for this are.
It's an open form.
You can discuss what you'd like.
It has to be of interest to hackers.
But that's it.
Yeah.
There are none of those batteries available in the Netherlands.
I'm categorically saying that as a natural fact.
No, really.
My heart of hearts.
Needle and all the other guys will go.
Of course, there are here there.
But I seriously cannot find them.
Like battery champion.
Punta now.
Really.
I'll be darned.
I would check an electrical wholesaler if you've got something like that around because they're
they're often used like as I said for emergency lighting and alarm systems and that kind of thing.
But if you haven't got that kind of battery available, just just a motorcycle battery will do.
And it's just got different terminals on it.
This thing had convenient terminals and I was able to get the battery for free.
It's only reason I used it.
Poke, Poke, does it have to be like a 12 volt battery?
If you want to use a like a cigarette lighter on it, yeah.
Well, because I was thinking like I've got all sorts of like 18650s and 18350s and 18500s laying around.
Yeah.
I mean, if you wanted to put a step down transformer on it or something, you could do something like that.
But I mean, just for simplicity's sake, you know, if you go to like, I don't know what's available.
I don't know what's available all over the world, but here in the States, other than Walmart and stuff,
usually have a like an RV section and they have all kinds of like cigarette outlet power sources
with waterproof caps on them and stuff that connect to trailer plugs or connect to the set and the other thing.
So it's really easy for like two or three dollars.
You can get an outlet like a cigarette lighter type outlet with a couple of, I don't know, maybe 16 gauge wires on them.
And you, you know, clip the end of the wire off and solder on whatever you need in the end of it.
And you've got a two or three dollar solution.
And then you can get like again, here in the States, everything can be powered off of a cigarette lighter outlet.
So all you need there is a splitter and a couple of, you know, USB chargers that plug into your cigarette outlet or what have you.
Happy New York Kingston.
Happy New York Kingston. Sorry, Ken, thank you.
I mean, you can get those rechargeable ones.
We just turn the thing and make a light go and stuff on it.
And now, too, don't get it.
And I've got like a little turn thing with your turn with your hand and the battery just charges all the amount.
And you don't have to worry about plugging something in.
I know that you can get a lot of tortures and stuff that you can do there on.
I presume you need these quite a few other things now that you can get to that you can use those.
Find them like this.
Yeah, if I was, if I was backpacking, I would probably tend more towards that type of thing or towards one thing that I did see that was really neat.
Somebody combined a wood gasifier stove with a thermal electric.
What do you call a tech thermal electric something, but it basically uses heat to make electricity.
And they made a USB power plug and you can buy that thing commercially.
And that's really interesting.
That's neat.
It's very expensive, but, but it's, it's possible.
Okay.
Okay.
I'll take it back.
You cannot get them here.
And they're called a GM battery.
A GM.
A G P B Q A GM battery 12 volts.
Look exactly the same.
Yeah.
P B is probably let.
And they come in all different sizes, too, Ken.
That one that I posted there was just one example.
If you, if you find a battery warehouse, you know, type of place or.
Or if you just go in there and say, what's the cheapest battery I can get that, you know, I can.
I mean, the one that I've got, you're not going to fit it in a pocket or a backpack.
But if you're car camping, you just plunk it down in your tent and say, are the whole week.
I never come after.
Yeah, here you are.
Okay.
But so maybe not camping, but if you're, if you're using a Raspberry Pi.
Sorry.
Oh, no, go, go, go, go.
As you can see, yeah, if you're using a Raspberry Pi, you know, taking time lapse photography,
and you want to leave the thing on the backyard, I dare say this thing could power it for the whole week, maybe, too.
Yeah, true for you.
Well, I'm paranoid, anyway, because the great secret of the Netherlands is nobody mentions that you're living on the three inches of water.
It's not a lot, really.
I mean, it's not as deep as even a swim pool.
There's enough to kill it, you know.
You know, but if you spread it out over the whole country, it's an awful lot of water.
You know, it might be known to fill Peter's swimming pool.
Yes, Peter.
Yeah, probably.
There's loads of water here.
I bet that that's not here.
You might have the old stone, wouldn't I?
Well, so what you want to do, Ken, is when you build your Raspberry Pi and giant rechargeable battery enclosure,
you want to put pontoons under it, just in case.
Well, laugh, laugh while you wish, folks.
I have.
I'm laughing.
Yeah, I know.
I'm here among sensible paranoid people.
Well, although on the other hand, I suppose, you know, a lot of these fields and stuff of churches that are older than the state.
So, as I said before, so they're kind of trained to be a bit complacent about it.
I put, you know, windows, roof windows in the attic.
So we could get out if this thing does flow down.
Skylights.
Skylights.
Skylights.
Skylights.
Normal people call them.
I call them secret escape hatches to my...
I still need to convince the wife that they can get a dinghy.
But she seems open to the idea of me having a short way of radio up there.
Or could get a battery up there as well.
A dinghy.
How about just an inflatable raft?
Yeah.
It's not what a dinghy is.
No, a dinghy.
Four hours.
Oh, dinghy.
First dinghy is the real thing.
Welcome to dinghy public radio.
No, most dinghy wouldn't typically want to use an inflatable raft.
Those are mostly just toys.
Okay.
So, what should...
No, sorry.
It's just going to actually kind of...
You know what a big bloody...
Yeah.
We mill things you see over there.
They're not pumping water out back into the ocean, are they?
They come over here.
There's a dikes.
What do you call them dikes?
Or women and couples with you.
Yeah.
That's not what the big...
The big we mills are doing.
Are they constantly pumping water back out into the ocean?
There's light in over the dikes.
Not directly in all, but they are...
There are pumps going the whole time.
Every other one does peter.
Half of them pump it out.
The other half pump it in.
They can need something to do over there.
They're bored of shit.
That one mills...
They applied power or something?
No, I don't know.
I don't know much about one mills.
You get to see one.
The old one mills, you know, the ones you see on the pictures
who are either graying those.
By the way, I'm...
The cause of...
David...
David Morris has requested that I do a...
section on how the Netherlands works here in Hackerford with radio.
So you can expect a few of these coming up.
But the Netherlands had, you know, those old traditional mills.
Which actually I should do a tour on because they are really technical and cool.
Yeah, they're beautiful.
Get them good pyres.
I'd love to come over.
Just photograph them.
Yeah, there's...
Yeah, and they turn the biggest son of a bitch in millstones.
They've got to have such...
And they go so slow.
There's got to be such tremendous gear reduction going on.
Yeah, they're pretty cool.
Actually, the next time I'm done, I'm done with my family.
I'll go in there again and do an interview with them.
The guy who is there was...
It's now turned into a museum, this old woman.
And the guy who is there, his father was the miller.
And he was the miller there.
I'm not miller, actually.
The mill itself was used to pump water from the digs open to the other.
So though, as the mills go around,
this basically steam paddle type thing
would just horse water up a meter or two into the next holder up.
And then further down, up into another drain,
and then further down to be another windmill,
taking it from that one up another measure.
So in some places, you have three of these windmills working in tandem
up from the holder up to one stream,
up to another one, up to another one,
and then out over into a river that flows through,
that's dug to the oil.
Pretty cool.
Gee, so...
Sorry, Peter, go ahead.
I was just going to ask you if there's still a lot over there
or are they just more museum things these days?
They're all museums now.
But close to them,
close to most of them, you'll see a pumping station.
Because a concrete thing with a grey tone and a mound of water
coming through is phenomenal.
So anytime I've ever seen them,
they've usually been in cartoons and stuff.
I don't even know if I've ever seen an actual film of one going,
but they're always depicted as these kind of silos,
stone silos with the blades on them.
And the blades always look like a kind of lattice work.
Are they not covered with sail cloth or something?
Yeah, that's how they...
Yeah, it's like a...
not just working.
More like a lather,
and there's a slight event towards the wind
from a sail shape.
So I can...
The feather on though.
I can.
Yeah, exactly.
The feather on to the...
Yeah, the Spider-Man song there, yeah.
They do what?
The feather on like a normal...
You know, on an airplane,
how you can feather up the propellers.
What do you mean?
How much?
Yeah, yeah.
Like I collected pitch,
I would copy that.
Yeah, trying to pitch on them.
So the more sail they have out,
they're faster than they go around.
Or, you know, they can control the speed
by adjusting the amount of canvas
that go ahead from the sail.
And now, how do you adjust that?
You have to stop it and some guy climbs up.
Some guy climbs up and pulls it over.
Yeah, that's exactly how you do it.
Oh, all right, right on.
And they have around the windmill.
Look, I'm going to go down there with a microphone
and do a recording as part of that series.
Obviously.
Proving it's all of interest to hackers.
I guess.
Yeah, definitely.
How is that called?
Slippery is a ladder in wooden shoes, Jesus.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know if they use the shoes.
I will ask him that.
I mean, how, you know, think about it at the time.
This was the same technology as guys climbing up the rigging
in a sailing ship.
I don't know if they use shoes or if they just had like
leather shoes or something like that.
No, on a sailing ship, they're mostly barefoot.
So I imagine we'd be the same as going up on the doors.
Yeah, okay.
And the reason I know they're mostly barefoot
is because we've got a bunch of nautical museums around here
and they, you know, it's always, they always make a point
of telling you that cannonballs weren't always balls.
Sometimes they were canisters of shrapnel
that would burst open on the deck.
And you would pretty much disable half the crew
because if they stepped on it, they've got bare feet
and they're done for.
Interesting.
I will be another interesting topic
for Hucklewood Radio, who has 260 shules needed for next year.
Have you guys ever talked about Backtrack?
What is this?
Backtrack.
For years we were hacking into Wi-Fi and stuff like that.
It's actually quite a nice HCCE destroy, I think, based off Ubuntu.
I think it's got a lot of hacker stuff in it.
I don't know.
I know the destroy was, was there a talk about it or something?
No, I just thought you guys might know,
might know some things about it,
or might have used it in the past.
I can't know if they're confirmed or denied us.
Yes, I've used it in the past,
but only on my own network with my own wood permission.
Especially you guys getting about feeding Wi-Fi's around you over the...
You know, that reminds me,
something I've never heard a show on
because I'm only personally interested,
I've never bothered to look it up,
but has anyone ever heard of it?
Because I'm only personally interested,
I've never bothered to look it up,
but has anyone ever done war driving?
Is there even any purpose to that?
Any more now that we have cell towers?
I have...
No, I don't happen actively,
but I've left my mobile phone on with Wi-Fi,
and you see the thing popping in,
and I've set it up around the house here.
I've actually done it around the neighborhood,
because you know how Wi-Fi works?
Everybody picks their own frequency, yeah?
Well, ideally, yes, usually they just use the default one
and leave the password unchecked.
You're lucky, then.
Okay, if you imagine,
this is how I...
feel free to contradict me,
to take the community out there,
but if you imagine the highway, yeah?
Wrong.
Wrong.
No.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
You said feel free.
I was just taking liberty with you, please.
Sure, thank you.
All right, you've got a highway.
You've got 13 channels over here,
11 in the States, or something like that.
It's a word of...
Sort of, yeah.
Yeah, there's already...
There's already a correction needed, but go on.
All right, do you want to do this technical segment or shall I?
Well, no, but over here,
you're going to talk about an 11 lane highway.
It really isn't.
It's a three lane highway with 11 overlapping colors.
You know, 11 overlapping lanes.
It's really only three.
They just...
They overlap.
Exactly, that's my point.
Okay, you're driving down.
You want to obviously get to the end as far as possible.
And technically, it says there are 13 lanes that you can pick from.
However, you're driving in a vehicle that takes up three of those lanes.
And if you go in the lane right next to the guy who's going the other way,
or going the same way as you, then you can fit in there.
So you're constantly bumping against this guy
and constantly having the crashes on the motorway.
So you have to stop.
Everybody has to restart again.
Whereas if you all decide to go on the same lanes,
or on lanes that are far enough apart that you're not interfering with each other,
then you can co-op the wireless equipment will cooperate with each other.
So that there are far less collisions and so that there's a greater throughput of traffic in total.
So with that in mind, get back to the back track CD.
I have gone around the neighborhood here to find out who has, you know,
what signal people are on and how we could kind of get it narrowed down to three proper lanes.
Of course, I suspect my attempts to get people to change their Wi-Fi would cause a lot of problems
because then if anything ever happened to their network,
it would be my fault forever and other.
Yeah, there you go.
But we do have a mailing list from the neighborhood.
So how many, if you've got more available bandwidth there, how many proper lanes do you have?
Because we've only got three in there.
I think they fall on channels 1, 6, and 11.
Yeah, that's still about right, 1, 6, and 11.
I mean, you could, you can push it closer, but the problem is everybody turns on the Wi-Fi and goes,
look, I see lots of people on channel 1.
So I'm going to spin off that channel 2 is empty.
So I'll go sit on channel 2.
Meanwhile, not only do you have, you have a crappy signal because you're picking up their signal as noise on your channel.
They're now picking up your signal as noise on their channel.
That's pretty much it.
Now, if anybody can explain that to a variety of technical and non-technical people living in my neighborhood,
then that would be fantastic.
Of course, my solution to this is to simply wire everything.
So I don't want you to play with that.
Yeah, well, there's the real solution, isn't it?
It all comes back to cable in your house correctly.
But if this had a school in New Zealand, actually just can't, so will the Wi-Fi,
and why everything?
Because a couple of the parents complained that it was going to cause them brain damage to the students.
Oh, dear God.
I know.
But I'm making half of what was still these fathers that just didn't want their teenage daughters actually on Wi-Fi.
I think it was part of the reason.
I'd say the brain damage is a legitimate concern, but I think it's probably caused by those particular parents, not the Wi-Fi.
Probably agree with that.
But yeah, and you know what sound chase you said comes back to wiring your house properly.
I think even wiring improperly is better than having no wires.
Well, okay.
I would actually agree with that at this point except for my cable motor mid-shoots.
Oh, yeah, well, there's that.
Yeah, it's funny, too, because I remember back in the 90s, somebody once told me that if you wired your house with network cabling,
which the time was cat three, that you could increase the value of your house by about $10,000.
Say, say, on $100,000 house, you bump it up by 10%.
And then for a long time in the 2000s, people said, well, that's not true anymore because everyone just has wireless.
But now the wireless spectrum is so full and everybody's got so much stuff on there that I think it's got to be pretty close to true again that if you wired up with,
I mean, you were up to cat six E now, but if you wire it properly, I think it does add value to your house.
And for anyone planning to do this in the future, I'm going to go ahead and say, from now on, wiring your house properly means using conduits so that you can pull that wire out and replace it next time at upgrades.
Yeah, that's what I was about to say is that planning for future changes to your cabling and that would actually be the really smart thing to do.
And actually being certain that you do a really good job of wiring and set up a good, you know, junction box and stuff.
And I would even go ahead and say, you want to probably go so far as to set up a small room for a server, you know, or your media boxes or whatever.
So you can have things set up like a network with your own little IT area.
Oh, of course, most of the new houses that I've heard of have that now anyway, where they have their media server.
They put their, you know, the blueberry players in there, they keep it all in one ventilated closet so that their television area is cleaner.
But yeah, I would definitely say put in conduits and do not use smart cable that there's a product called smart cable, which is usually the one I've seen is two ethernet cables and two coax cables in the same jacket.
And that would not be good anymore because you can't pull out individual cables and replace them.
Yeah, as you said, like when I was coming up, it was all cat 5 and now it's cat 6e.
So you want to replace that. You don't want to have that smart cable with everything all bound together.
But yeah, if it's in the conduit, at least you can pull it out of the back and again.
Just two things on that thing number one with 4G coming along.
A lot of the interferes with a lot of your regular old panel cable networks with what coming along for G.
Or G.
Or G, huh? I'm going to have to.
4G, or number 4 followed by G for golf.
F-O-U-R.
Wow, okay.
The spectrum that it broadcast on is the same spectrum that cable networks broadcast on.
You know, you're regular old TV cable.
And a lot of those channels in those bands.
It's taking a lot of it's going to take a lot of bandwidth from the actual cable in their house.
So your TV reception is going to be hissed by the use of these new 4G networks as they become more prevalent.
Just FYI to you.
So, all right, now you've said something that confused me.
You said that the 4G networks use the same bandwidth as cable networks.
But here cable networks cable is literal.
It's a wired network.
Coaxial cable, yes.
Okay, so there the frequency is interfering.
You're getting you're getting bleed over.
Is that what you mean?
Correct.
Yes.
Even the coaxial cable that you use in your house.
Has got a certain amount of shielding on it.
But it's still not enough to filter out the effects of having a 4G transmitter in your locality.
And of course, in order to get to the speeds that they need, they should be putting loads and loads of these for 4G cells around.
So I'll put a link to an article about that.
Just FYI, I pull disclosure over a cable company.
That's very interesting.
That's neat.
I'll read that article.
Now, what about broadcast television that's nowhere near the same spectrum, correct?
Shouldn't be though.
I don't pretend to take me as an authority for this.
I mostly work dealing with XML files and APIs and stuff like that.
So this is just sort of stuff that I heard from people who do actually know what's going on.
What do they call that when you've got a compressed picture like on cable television.
And like the compression doesn't catch up and you get like giant blocky pixels.
I forget what that's called.
Crap.
Crap, see.
Yeah.
You have pixels, pixelation blocking.
Yeah.
Artifacts, we call it.
Yes.
That's right, artifacts.
Yeah.
So there's going to be a lot more of that is what you're saying.
Well, the whole band will just simply disappear.
The range of channels in those frequencies will in order to guarantee the quality of cable metrics.
They're going to have to move those channels off.
So there will be less bandwidth available on that range of cable metrics.
One better cable, better shielded cable.
If one of the channels that has to move off the network is the Disney channel, then this is only a good thing as far as I'm concerned.
And if they could take up Nickelodeon while they're at it, I'm all for it.
You know, I'm all for getting rid of cable TV period.
No, strike him down cable TV.
You know, you know what?
Anymore of these days, if you're going to just, if you want to do like on demand streaming or stuff,
I think that's the way to go.
I mean, I actually just picked up, I picked up two Roku boxes.
And the whole thing about upgrading my cable modem was so I could actually go ahead and increase my bandwidth and get rid of the TV.
We don't, I mean, we play reasonably quick into the over here in New Zealand.
It's faster than Australia's anyway.
And we've got a satellite TV, but I haven't even watched it.
I just lived that to my life and decided to watch it.
I'm going to get stuff straight away.
I don't have to worry about anything.
I'm going to live streaming sports, everything.
Yeah, it's quite funny in our team.
In the team that we work in, the very few people actually watch TV.
We watch it streaming.
Which we also do as well.
We also support all of the stuff streaming as well.
Like in all the state.
I can watch all the programs pretty much on it is the same time.
And I mean, I watched the Doctor Who special within half an hour of it being released.
I just, you know, I just found some where I've watched it and I was away.
It doesn't worry me.
I just don't worry about TV.
Do you need it?
It is a, yeah, it's a different concept.
I think a lot of people go over the top even regular people are using over the top stuff.
And here, especially the logo gun Netflix.
We've got all the TV channels of their stuff on catch up.
We also have a catch up as well.
I think that's the satellite TV service here, which is going up here.
I used to wait for them actually.
But they've just moved you really online.
These online thing that people get afraid that they've signed up to the satellite service.
So they can just watch on your PC now.
So lots of people just do that now here.
So yeah, but it's just a whole thing has just changed in the last two or three years.
What are satellite dishes?
They're pulling people's rows.
They've sort of become obsolete.
No.
I think millions of dollars pulling them up.
That will have spent probably three or four hundred million dollars putting the satellite on the roof on every one's house.
And this discovered now that they really don't need to.
There are, that's something to do with a techie started off.
I promised to do an episode on satellite communication.
And I still haven't done a sub there.
It's put customization for you.
That's how many years now.
That's that's page.
That's that.
Apropos of nothing.
I think the cost in social currency of laughing out loud at yourself is not much less than the cost in social currency of talking to yourself.
So I think if we can get John the nice guy to laugh out loud, he'll probably talk to.
I'm out in public.
So I want to join the convoy.
It says John the nice guy.
Must be a nice guy though.
He is actually a nice guy.
I mean.
Oh, he just disconnected.
Oh.
My fault.
For everybody listening, he just disconnected.
Oh, geez.
I gotta stop talking.
These are the second guy who's left when I mentioned his name.
I want to stop doing this.
Stop doing that.
He's not discovered.
The prenumerine comes in here all the time and checks for you as a mere guy.
It's his birthday today.
So if Cox comes into the room, I wish them happy birthday.
You won't know what's going on there.
You were joined.
You're joined in.
It's got a good radio voice too.
You get it.
So we mentioned 330 earlier.
At right after that happened, he dropped out of the ARC.
No, I was on the right side of that because I told you not to mention him.
Yeah, I know.
So, but what I'm just saying is not you that manages to scare people off.
I managed to scare him out of IRC too.
Okay.
We started seven years six months on 22 days ago just for your information.
And if you go to xkcd.com slash 1299.
Since we're talking about television, I got in on the peak of the smug curve there.
Yep.
Save here.
So I haven't had use for cable television, let alone a television for quite a few years.
I never felt smug about it though, but I do get the joke.
I still got a big 3D inch TV.
It's one of the old grey ones.
Big case thing.
Yeah.
And then we got starting news.
Now we've all gone digital here in New Zealand about three or four months ago.
So anything needed another area with the starting news.
People are throwing maybe TVs and drugs.
That's going to the rubbish tank.
So, you know, just the other day I was thinking about, you know, tech gear.
And it's so it was funny to me because I don't know what brought this thought up.
But you never anymore see somebody walk up to the television and smack the side of it three or four times to get it working anymore.
We do that all the time.
I don't want to cover it.
It's a flex, right?
Yes.
I was thinking, you know, you'd wait a pull TV off the wall or something, you know.
But I mean, that used to be the way to fix every single device in your house.
If your television went a bit fuzzy, you smacked it.
The VCR went fuzzy.
You tapped it just right on the front corner.
You're Nintendo.
You're Nintendo.
You had to tap it not too hard because the cartridge would pop back out.
Everything was like that.
I had a Tari.
It's Tio used to smash every now and then again.
It's showing my age.
Two minutes.
Yeah, I had a 2600 that you had to tap.
It's just right.
I had a 2600.
Oh, I'll be not from my 800 excel.
No, six hundred excel.
I think it was 800 excel.
It was 2600.
And I gave up after that.
I think I got a 386 after that.
A PC.
I think I paid a grand for it.
And it must have been 80s and 90s.
It's showing my age.
Oh, I'm so embarrassed.
I once bought a...
It was probably even a Pentium 1, like 166 megahertz computer.
So embarrassed.
I paid a $3,000 for a computer and a monitor.
Two minutes, fellas.
I've got something to talk about.
Do you guys ever hear about that guy that found this?
He needs to work in recycling space.
And he found this hard drive.
And he went and had a look and see what was in there.
And it had 7,500 bitcoins in there.
This is when bitcoins was a $1,000 each.
And so it was worth something like millions and millions of dollars.
Very nice.
Well, someone in our community here...
And I won't mention who he is.
He can bring it up on his own if he feels like it.
But someone that we know bought or created somehow a bunch of bitcoins
and kind of forgot about them until they hit a pretty high level.
And he sold them.
And quite a bit of money he's got in there.
But he can only take out a $1,000 a day.
And I thought that was kind of limiting.
Even after you sell them.
You sell them all.
You don't own them anymore.
You've got money in an account.
But you can only withdraw $1,000 a day from that account.
Oh, man.
He's on the wrong exchange.
Basically, he needed to be on an exchange that follows the...
Know your customer standards.
In which case, you can fill out that paperwork and you can actually transfer more back and forth,
like up to, I think, $200,000 a day.
Okay.
And we are, like, a minute from the next New Year.
So happy New Year to...
Oh, such a faucet.
To me.
No burn in the camera.
You're up either.
Melvin.
Now again.
Yeah, Melvin.
I'm going to ride.
But have a good New Year because my wife just got home and my daughter's happened to be going to watch the fireworks.
So I'll talk to you in a bit.
Happy New Year!
And that was my wife.
Did you hear what she said?
Happy New Year, everyone.
Happy New Year, Judy.
Yeah.
We'll talk you soon.
Happy New Year to everybody at the Peter64 International RC Airplane runway.
And that is on.
What's it called?
That map thing.
I can't remember what it's called.
I've been straight map.
Yeah.
Openstreetmap.org.
Ron, I catch it in the wall, fellas.
See ya, Peter.
Happy New Year, Peter.
And all of the 64s.
So no, that's a cool story about the bitcoins.
But jeez, if I were that guy, I wouldn't let that story get out.
I mean, I don't know if it's legal to go scanning a hard drive like that.
Wait, what about scanning a hard drive?
He recovered a discarded hard drive.
And he had a look at it.
And he found somebody else's, you know, the encryption keys to somebody else's Bitcoin wallet.
Oh, he stole the bitcoins.
Technically, I would say that he did, yeah.
Because I mean, the way that Marcus told the story,
he said he found bitcoins on the hard drive.
I just really can't work.
What's that?
This is what I read on this point when he found the hard drive.
I really stole that.
No, no, no.
He found the hard drive.
Yes.
But there were no bitcoins on the hard drive.
That's not how bitcoins work.
Bitcoins exist in the ether.
They're like a sort of meta existence.
Well, all that you can have on a hard drive is the key to decrypt a certain wallet.
And of course, you have the record of the bitcoins.
It's just Bitcoin is just a record that many distribute it.
Many people have the record.
It's not like a hard drive can have a bitcoin on it.
I like it.
So he would have picked that.
I would have slowed down a whole bunch of numbers or something saying that bitcoins.
I don't know how the coins work.
I'm like, it's weird.
Oh, I've been reading that for a long time.
I still don't get it.
Yeah, well, basically Bitcoin is a transaction, a record of transactions.
And everybody involved has a copy of the record of transactions.
And each and every person involved has a record of their own transactions,
whether they mind a Bitcoin or had it transferred to them.
And each of those, each person's own bitcoins are encrypted.
And if you have the keys to decrypt that or did something like having them encrypted and decrypted,
but everybody has it.
Everybody has a record of it and your own key unlocks your own wallet.
So if he found a hard drive with a key on there, that's not to say that somebody else wasn't actively using that wallet.
I mean, if they were discarded and whoever the person was lost,
the keys to that wallet and they would have gone unused and unfound, okay,
finders, keepers, fairs, fair, because there's no one to complain about it.
But if somebody's actively using that wallet, all he found was a copy of the decryption key.
And I mean, that's basically that's theft.
So I was listening to Richard Stoman on some news program, actually.
And he was talking about, he was talking about bitcoins.
So I did some research on it and how it works.
So I don't even know that you've done it.
I'm not having to talk about it.
So I have a public radio.
This is John the Nice guy here.
Hey John the Nice guy.
I mean, I didn't realize you can only have 25 million bitcoins either.
And they're up to about 15 million or something, are they?
Yeah, there is a total limit to how many you can have.
And when they reach the total limit, you start breaking them down into decimals.
And that decimal number will carry out to infinity.
I'm sure now it goes out to the decimal goes out to eight places.
If the value of a Bitcoin goes above $1,000 US,
you then start working with what they call MBTC or micro bitcoins,
which is basically extending it out past the eighth decimal place.
Hey, John the Nice guy.
Yes, we can hear you.
Welcome to the show.
Join in.
We'll consider me.
Or not.
Anyway, yeah.
So I was watching Richard Stormin on the news channel.
And it was a type of people who was interviewing him,
but it was a really good interview.
And it got me there was talking about how it's not like you could follow
which Bitcoin belongs to who and that people can own 1,000 bits of
Bitcoin.
It was quite interesting.
Hey, I'm going to make a quick interjection here.
CT in the IRC channel has asked us if we're keeping track of how many
shows Ken makes everyone promise to actually submit to HPR.
Yeah, we are keeping track of it.
But the way we're doing that is every time Ken says you owe me a show.
This will whip takes a drink.
Well, that's not going to be enough for this will whip.
I'm talking for ages.
I told often I'm going to show you, show you, show you, show you, show you.
I can go to the whole 20 hours if you meet me honestly.
Hey, John the Nice guy.
Can you hear us this time?
John.
Talk to me John.
No, he's gone.
He's gone.
Yeah, how about John Colp?
John, can you hear us?
Hey guys, I can hear you.
Yes.
I'm using a new mumble client on my phone since my daughter has my laptop.
We're playing Minecraft.
So I don't know if this is working or not.
Yeah, you must be on the iPhone because we're enjoying your pay for it.
And it's one for the 1.4.
It is working back off the mic just a touch.
And that life phone normally comes in really bad.
I actually know certain mumble.
So you must be on the iPhone.
It's actually on the Android, but I'm not sure how to adjust the mic level.
Yeah, just bring it a little away from your face if you can.
It's not too bad.
No, it's it's a little loud, but it's not too bad.
It's not too bad.
No, it's it's it's a little loud, but it's a little woolly at the top, too.
Get a lot of life phones and come up and come up on the night.
The shelter.
You like that squeal.
The point.
Yes, woolly when your voice gets a little fuzzy and a little distorted.
I like the word woolly for that.
Don't laugh, man.
I heard it from your buddy.
I first heard it from Adam Curry.
He was the one that said woolly and I like it, damn it.
No, not at the top.
I'm sorry.
It gets distorted in the base range.
It might have been because it was kind of inside my shirt clipped in there.
That sounds pretty good.
Yeah, you do sound good.
Okay, I took it off and it's kind of hanging down near my belt now.
It should be less loud.
Yeah, quite tall a roll.
John, it's up.
Yeah.
I want to thank you in person for the fantastic help on getting this HBO site looking as good as it does.
You're very welcome.
It was fun to do.
I had just come off a pretty big project at work overhauling the entire school of music website
and bringing it up to compliance with HTML5 standards and accessibility standards
and basically trying to get it in order after many years of, I don't know, who really was working it.
But I think they used one of those tools that encourages bad behavior like Dreamweaver or something.
It was just riddled with direct formatting and so it was just awful.
Anyway, I learned a whole lot about CSS and so it was actually pretty quick and easy to take care of the things that you wanted for the hacker public radio website.
They redoing websites or something that have been on my list for a very, very long time.
And unfortunately, never can get around to it.
That move and then it looked absolutely terrible and it would work on mobile devices.
So John stepped in and tidied it up nicely so it looked quite well.
He made what I did look as good as possible.
The mobile version still has virtually no styling but it actually still works fine.
You know, the lack of styling works okay on the mobile device.
I just added some padding between things for people with bad fingers to be able to tap on the links.
Yeah, that's me.
It's me too.
I just love the fact that when you scroll it in and it just turns into a HTML site.
Boeing, Boeing, Boeing, HTML site that works.
Yeah, that's the way to go.
From plain text.
Yeah, you know, the constraints I was working with at school like I could not install anything like WordPress or Drupal.
And we're actually the whole university is migrating to Drupal but our department is not due for the migration until spring 2016.
I felt like I had to do something and all I had was FTP access to a server that's running.
I want to say Apache 2.0 and PHP 4 something.
It's really old.
So all I could do basically is stick files on there.
So I had to come up with just plain HTML solutions.
So thank you HTML5 for making media content easy to put on there.
I do have two pages with JavaScript on them to do, you know, a little photo slideshow and stuff like that.
But otherwise it's just all HTML.
It is a massive improvement actually.
Even the HTML is just a lot simpler itself.
Full code.
Yep.
It's going to make a coffee going to be right there.
I'm actually like the whole article section.
I don't know if people know about HTML.
Let's bore some people shall we hack about the radio.
That's what we do.
Right on man talk about the article tags.
So on a regular if you go to hack about the radio.org forward slash HTML5.
HTML you'll see a basic page.
And now since HTML5 the duct type is just HTML.
Nothing else that's enough to tell you that it's HTML.
In the HTML section of a of a web page.
So HTML is I think it's a subset of XML or it can be a subset of XML.
It's a sort of bastard.
Well, like it was there before XML or a derivative of all that the same time on XML.
So you have opening tags and closing tags.
So wherever you've got a XML or you've got a tag is defined as being anything between the grater than less than symbol.
So if you've got one called head.
Then you should look for the down and you'll see another one greater than slash head less than the other way around.
I didn't have the two brackets, two annually brackets. Let's call them.
So you've got a head section.
You've got a body section for your main body and then you've got a.
That's pretty much it.
But inside of that head and body they've added two new sections.
Which are the header section.
So the head itself is more for to tell your web browser what the head what the web page is about.
So the title of your page to display off at the top.
So we have title in an element title hacker public radio technology community podcast.
Or such title. Then we've got meta character size UTF8.
And that tells the web browser what the coding is for the web page and crayon.
UTF8 is the only coding that should be used on the internet anymore.
Has to be said.
Let's move on.
Along with cap 5, Poké.
We've entered a new era here.
It's called modernization.
Anyway, then you have a can of other stuff like meta keywords which we have met a description.
And then we have the style sheets.
Also in here we've got links special link tags that have got attributes.
So in any XML attribute you've got.
I don't know what the best way to explain an attribute is it's like.
If you if you've got a value like the title is a value hacker public radio is our title.
But in in the element itself you could have in the square bracket title space.
And then you could have lang equals ENG to tell it that that's the title in English.
And then you can have lang another title title lang equals NL.
So if you've got a Dutch in any of this site that you wanted to render.
And it browser would know to display this title in Dutch in this title.
So you've got those type of attributes.
In the link element we have the rel alternative attribute which tells you that this web page is available in.
There are alternative views of this web page available and one application for SS plus XML.
And we've got the three feeds listed there that allows applications to.
Look at your website and determine if there's or SS feeds sources.
And then there's other cool stuff that john's put in there about style sheets and fixes for i.e.
But we have the body.
And the body section is the entire body of all this is the HTML content that you're going to be displaying.
It's kind of much say to the browser.
And then after that, of course, is the HTML type.
Now within the body, HTML for none of this sort of said is anything particularly new.
It's been in HTML for ages.
But what they've added within the body section is sort of header main and footer sections.
Because most web pages have a repeating header which we do, which is the menu area.
I'll put the top like hack a public radio, your ideas, projects, opinions, podcasts.
That's that's up at the top.
You usually have that on every page.
And at the bottom, you usually have this footer containing.
I don't know copyright information.
We have all our all our ancestry social affiliates, links and pages and then some copyright information.
And so that kind of divides the page is quite nicely into a header main.
And footer section.
And what's cool is previously you could only put a one h1 article on page.
And if you all listen to Ahuka's series on the office, you'll know that they.
And he says that the H1 is the title of the page.
We should only have one in the document.
That's kind of correct now with HTML, but in any particular section, you can have one H1 in the header section.
You can have one H1 in the footer section.
And then you can have H2 in which to.
But what's kind of cool is you've got this concept in the main section in the center body of the page.
You got things called articles.
And these articles, we use them to do the shows.
We say here in H2R.
And they are allowed to the own section when a H1 allowed their own footer.
It can also have a H1.
And they're nicely, yeah, they're nicely nested giving you a nice structured view of the page.
So that article section is actually where we're going to be putting all our shows.
So that in a nutshell is a very quick overview of HTML.
We've got your header head section, which is for the website, which is for the web browser to tell you what render.
You've got the body section, which tells the web browser.
So the head section tells the browser information about the page and what to do with it.
And then the body section tells the browser what's coming up.
And then the new sections of header quarter a name for your documents and structure.
Pretty nice.
Pretty nice.
John the nice guy.
Nice guy.
Are you here?
You know, can another part of the header that I think is really, really cool is the viewport line, which is the one that allows you to have.
Have screen with detection and to take advantage of that in the style sheet to have this nice responsive design.
So that, you know, the style changes according to the detected width of the screen.
That's pretty cool.
And the whole.
They've done quite a lot with CSS three years.
It's pretty snazzy.
Oh, no, quite nice, I think logical.
There's something about this Android app that I've got the change once I get out of the chair.
Every time John the nice guy joins or leaves, I hear a voice in my head that says he either connected or disconnected.
It's really distracted.
Oh, yeah, you got to change that to a ding or just turn it off, turn it off.
Yeah, that's actually an option.
You should be able to turn off.
The problem is that I joined the channel first thing before going into any of the configuration options.
And so maybe I should get out of here and fix it for long.
On the desktop application on the desktop program, you can just go into the configure menu.
You don't have that option on the phone.
I don't see it when I when I try to go back to the configuration.
It asks me if I really want to exit the channel.
Oh, I see.
By the way, I enjoyed hearing you guys talk about wiring up the houses.
This is something I did recently to mine not not extensively, but I ran.
I had a contract or actually who did our kitchen renovation come in and run cat five.
Yeah, maybe I should have done cat six, but anyway, I think it's done in such way where I can pull it through if I want to upgrade later.
The cat five is fine for up to gigabit, I think, and cats.
You probably get the same speeds out of cat five, as you wanted to cat six e at home.
It's only when you start going to longer runs where the where the category six makes a difference.
Got it.
Well, I have it makes much of a difference as you should say.
Well, my switches are gigabit switches and so I don't think I could go any faster than that anyway, but it's marvelous.
We've got a detached office where I keep my servers and I used to have them connected to my network via a wireless bridge.
I've taken some old router, I found it either good will or somewhere and put ddwrt on it and turned it into a bridge.
And then I would plug everything in there, but you know, it's a little bit iffy.
So now I've got a hard wire connection from the house out to the office and my servers can have a nice steady solid connection.
It's awesome.
How difficult was that to to, um, to configure ddwrt to be a wireless bridge? How much trouble did you have with that?
Well, the first time it was kind of hard, but not too hard after the first one is super easy.
I've got probably five or six of them that I've done that to.
I'll go to thrift stores constantly, you know, people who follow me on my social networking timelines know that my servers are all machines that I paid like less than $10 for at thrift stores or flea markets or whatever.
And so I'll pick up routers also and I don't think I have a router in the house that I paid more than $6 for and they've all got ddwrt on them.
Some configured as just well, the main ones just configured as a regular wireless access point, but the other ones are all configured as repeater bridges and got various machines or printers hooked up to them.
Yeah, a few years ago I was living my wife and I were living with her parents. We got into a pension had to move in with them and I couldn't run any wires in their house just because I couldn't get into any of the walls safely.
So I did exactly that. I bought a WRT 54 GL put, put ddwrt on it and configured it as a wireless bridge, but it took, I mean I could not get it to work as a wireless bridge on my own.
I had to go to like I brought it with me to a to a lug and we worked on it there for the entire time before somebody figured out how to do it and it kind of at the time I don't know if ddwrt is any different now, but when I did that it kind of boiled down to doing not just getting the settings correct, but doing them in the correct order and rebooting at the correct time.
If we did any one of those things out of order or didn't reboot at the right time, it just didn't work. It wouldn't work as a bridge, but that's
if I don't know if is it any easier now?
Well, maybe it has matured a lot because I have no problem at all setting it up, but I don't consider myself any kind of expert on wireless technology.
Okay, yeah, because I remember I'm trying to remember it was so long ago, it was like oh seven, I think oh wait, maybe when I was doing that, but you know there's a pull down menu entry there for for putting it in wireless bridge mode and doing that did not have any effect on the thing whatsoever, unless we first
there was another setting, I wish I could remember what it was, we had to change that setting and then save it and then reboot the thing and then put it into wireless bridge mode and it would work from that point on and then we could do the you know all the
network authentication and stuff from that point, but there was something else that had to be changed first and I don't remember what that was.
It might be the static IP of the router because you have to set the IP to be something other than what the main one is and maybe that is the setting I don't really know I mean you have to get the wireless
passphrase and all of the wireless stuff has to be exactly the same as what your main router is the one you're trying to connect to.
Yes, and once you get that all set up and choose bridge or repeater bridge as your mode of operation it ought to work.
Well, that's what we thought to it ought to have worked, but it took no there was something else there was I thought it was like a mode that had to put the antenna in some kind of a mode other than bridge you had to do that before you turned it to bridge mode and
or wireless bridge or whatever it is but whatever it was it it sounds like they fixed it I'm glad to hear that because it's actually very easy now I think the first one I did was probably around 2011 so it's still that's much later than when you were trying this.
And I've done I've done at least six routers since then and it's all been super easy the hard part and the little bit scary part is actually getting the firmware all in there and it works better with some routers than others but they have an excellent.
I don't know if it's a wiki or just documentation pages but people have taken enormous amounts of time to provide detailed step by steps on how to do it for all kinds of individual models of routers.
Yeah, when when I was doing it, you could you could get it WRT 54 GL with with the L built into it, you could order that and and be fine or else you had to know the specific model and revision number and have to you know have the thing in your hands to see if it was the right one because otherwise it didn't have enough RAM to run the full blown DD word.
And if you didn't have the right amount of RAM you could run a crippled DD word but then it didn't there was a bunch of things that didn't do so I at the time I specifically you know had to order it was already it was discontinued at the time that the 54 GL and I had to order it like on eBay or something and get the right one I paid a fortune for it like 70 bucks maybe and because it just nothing else worked correctly at the time.
But now I know there's there's tons of stuff and links us I think is again and still selling the WRT 54 GL but it's been a good router but I use tomato in it now.
Yeah, I tried tomato also and it was pretty good but it doesn't I think it only runs on that router or maybe one other version but what I do is before I buy one of these things I just I have my phone with me and I check the DD WRT router database
to see if it's got the green check mark and if it does then I'll buy it as long as it's not too pricey you know if it gets over $10 I got to think pretty hard.
But yeah and it's you're the only other guy I've ever talked to who was set up a wireless bridge and who used one and I will say it's a fantastic solution if you can't get wires to a place it's the way to go like if I had to
yeah if I had if I had a TV like a home entertainment center and couldn't get you know multiple wires to it that's what I would do because you know specifically the WRT 54 GL it has four ethernet ports on it so you've got one for your TV one for your PlayStation or or Xbox or whatever one for your DVD player you know it's got all those ports and it just uses that single wireless connection it's really terrific.
That's great if you can't run a wire but if you don't have the bandwidth you know the WRT 54 GL really doesn't give you that much I mean you're talking maybe 30 megs through but megabits I should say so a lot of devices communicating simultaneously will have a big problem with that kind of device I mean it's pretty good you know with the new wireless AC routers set up as bridges but yeah
yeah you can't change it all and do wireless in routers there's a bunch of newer wireless in routers that are compatible with TV's and your TV's probably kind of no need ddwrt and a lot of these new ones they'll have all the bridge and capabilities in their firmware
and I'm not saying that you shouldn't try and get ddwrt but it really isn't necessary a lot of the new firmware is pretty good and honestly ddwrt is showing its age especially on the newer devices
is it you will you but I don't realize it'll be a lot of it
sorry I had this low new well you know
what was that mark as you're talking way too fast for just a few seconds and we introduced say happy new year to
had delayed and broken hill in Australia
right on and welcome to the room to William
and thought when you were young that he's hates the Williams around somewhat not
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Sorry for interrupting.
And John, I think your microphone was rubbing up against a shirt pocket or something for a
minute there.
Sorry about that.
That's right.
We just couldn't hear your words.
Skipping over a pot and nerd gasmin is the end of the world.
I dropped it and dropped it into your chat room and I was talking to me.
It's not proper.
I'm a lighter, I think.
This is getting us kids to beat, I think.
Do you not have restrictions on when you're doing wireless bridging?
Do you not run into problems with not having enough wireless bandwidth to do with that?
Sorry.
You're asking me?
Yeah, John.
John, I don't know of any restrictions.
You know, I mean, running up against different channels, interference from different wireless
channels and that you're pumping so much data through the wireless.
I haven't noticed any problem with this.
I haven't noticed any problem like this.
My kids are usually, if the most bandwidth that we use is when my kids start streaming
their TV shows on Netflix and otherwise, I don't think we actually use all that much here
and I've not noticed anything suffering any kind of performance degradation.
Yeah, can you not get a notice it until you would notice it anyway?
You know, like if you're streaming like a high-res ripped blu-ray from a streaming server
to a television to where a 54 meg router would not be enough, then you would notice it.
But if your router's got enough bandwidth anyway and that's the one thing you're doing,
you're probably going to be fine.
Or if you're not streaming video, if you're just doing your regular network stuff,
surfing the net, using whatever, I've never noticed it myself.
I've been fine.
Okay, fair enough.
I guess we tend to live in a more compact area with a lot more people around.
Yeah, I think what William was saying and his point is valid,
is that if you're using the wireless bridge as a hub to where you're pumping
four high-capacity signals into it, you might start noticing it.
And that is a valid point.
I just haven't run up against that.
Well, even one that I consider.
I mean, if you're saying, you know, for your media and entertainment system,
you could be streaming, I don't know, a blu-ray rip.
And there's no way the WRT-54G is going to handle that if anyone else is on the access point as well.
Because I'm sure if you're doing a wireless bridge, you're not just the only client
that bridge device isn't.
You probably have phones, you probably have laptops.
Right, right.
And that's, yes, exactly.
And that's my point is that if that were to be a problem for you,
you're going to be a problem having it wireless anyway until you start going
to like an end network or the USET AC, which is even faster.
So yeah, all valid points.
At this point, the only thing I've got on my bridges are printers.
I've got a print server hooked up in the...
That's okay.
It's pretty lovely with no big deal.
I'm surprised you made a bridge for that.
The printers are old enough that they don't have Wi-Fi built in.
Yes, they're very old.
I pick up my printers at Goodwill just like I do my servers.
Goodwill has servers, what?
Well, what they have, my current best server is an HP A1102 end
that I got for eight bucks.
And I've upgraded the RAM.
And you know, it's a pinion for, but it runs fine for using engine X
and actually is now using it as a Minecraft server.
I feel like this things are so power-hungry,
it's almost not even worth keeping around.
Yeah, it was so hard.
It's almost to find out when you've got a Raspberry Pi or a device and like that.
Well, for a Minecraft server, you justify it because it wouldn't run on a Pi very well.
For engine X, I don't know.
No, it's easily justifiable because computers have a switching power supply
and then which means they don't put out more current than you're using.
And I've got a dual core, an older dual core...
Well, that's basically the problem.
And I've checked it with the kilowatt device and it uses 14 watts.
Of course, consistently.
But he was talking about a Pentium 4,
which alone on its own is going to generate a lot of excess heat,
consume a lot of power just because of the architecture underneath.
Oh, yeah.
And so that's just a concern in general.
Is that sure the stuff may work,
but it'll still consume a lot more than the very modern machine
that can get things done very quickly with a very low thermal payload.
Yeah, that is true.
I would rather have a modern machine,
but is somebody going to buy it for me?
No, I'm just thinking if you...
Well, it's not just that because if you consider how much power you're saving,
it may be worth buying a modern machine.
Or something more modern than that.
I'm not saying buy brand new.
Just maybe not that.
I know.
Well, the system seems to be something good with it.
Are you thinking late?
Sorry.
You said 76.
Yeah, I'm going to go ultra-prone.
Yes.
Yes, you are.
Parallel, that would be a good one.
Are you there? Will you?
Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
Parallel.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, John, what I think the, you know, Williams getting at is the power savings
may pay for the machine if you get one used on eBay or something.
And the good way to figure that out,
that I have found is that my local library has a kilowatt.
It's a device that you plug into the wall,
and then you plug something into it.
And it can tell you how many watts you're pulling
and how many amps, how many watts, how many volts,
and break it down.
I actually have one of these myself.
And I did this test on the server.
And according to my estimations,
it's about $22 a year in electricity charges.
Really?
It's not too bad.
What kind of watches it pulling?
I don't remember.
But, I mean, I did the test maybe a year ago,
when I first saw it, it was a fastened stuff
for the little kilowatt thing.
And so, I was going around and testing.
I wouldn't know how much the server was calling you to run.
They're wicked fun, aren't they?
Yes.
It's really cool.
Yes, see.
Now, when I borrowed mine, I plugged it in.
And like I said, it's like a dual core AMD.
It's a little old now, but it's, you know, fairly modern.
I think it was 14 watts at idle and like 40 watts,
if anybody was using the Minecraft servers,
and it was logged onto that.
And I think I estimated a 40 watt load
over a month to be $7 in electricity.
Yeah, that sounds about right.
I mean, I feel like I like $22.
I'm surprised how little my power bill is
when I look at it, because I think I pay like,
I don't know.
It just seems really reasonable.
I have no idea how much is going to be the server
is because I have no idea what the breakdown
of my power consumption is.
Yeah, I agree.
You know, given that I have like electric heating,
electric water heater, you know,
my Huawei stove, all electric.
I have no idea what the breakdown is.
We use what I always thought was a lot of electricity too,
but our electric bill is usually low.
I mean, a low bill for us is about $60 in it,
and a big bill is maybe $100.
And then you hear, yeah, I know.
And then you hear, guys, that is really low.
That is really low.
I was going to say, I probably pay $100 a month or something.
Yeah, and you hear guys like,
pay more than that, but it's not the servers.
Yeah, guys like Peter,
but I'm going to pay in $600 and $700 a quarter.
I was going to say, I'm like one person
in a one-man apartment and I'm paying like $100.
Just for a few reasons.
Yeah, I must say.
It seems like quite a bit, but.
You've been trying to get electric heat too.
That's true, but I don't need my electric heat
because my servers are my electric heat.
Yeah, there you go.
So, you know, turns out they serve purpose there.
Yeah, but that's less efficient
because if you have electric heat or electric hot water,
a lot of times those are on a separate meter
and they're billed at a lower price.
Not much.
I'm like if you're constantly,
well, you have to try to always lower the heat.
Because my electric heat isn't,
it's not a, it's not like a central layer,
central furnace type deal.
They're just the walled mount units.
Right. Right. Right. Right.
Yeah, but they're within the same circuit panel.
Oh, that's why I remember that.
It's not really that bad.
So, the thing that I keep thinking about,
and I read this a couple of years ago,
and I just looked it up.
It was actually an instructable out there on doing this,
is with a Raspberry Pi,
you could actually run it off a solar power.
You can actually set up a solar panel
to actually charge a battery
and actually connect it to the battery,
so you'd actually have a Raspberry Pi.
I don't know where it off.
This doesn't give you prices.
I feel like it's probably not worth it.
Given how much they cost.
Not only that.
Well, not only that,
but to make a solar panel viable,
you still have to have a battery behind it
and you have to have a charging circuit for that battery.
And you've got to pull in so much extra off that panel
that it'll charge the battery
and run it overnight.
And it's, I mean,
the engineering time,
that's a lot of time.
Yeah, the whole thing.
It's not worth it.
Actually, the four watt solar,
what they call four watt solar briefcase,
is about 30 pounds,
which would be about maybe $90 here.
There's not that bad.
Does it come with a battery,
or do you do it by the battery separately?
You've got to buy a battery separately,
but it's about the same as the battery
that you were talking about before, Polky.
Yeah, yeah, it would be.
I would imagine it would be.
The geek factor might make it all worthwhile.
That's what I was just saying.
It would be a lot of fun.
There's an excellent vehicle in the series
called Curacao in the Magpie,
where a guy does that.
He has a Raspberry Pi monitoring his house,
and he's got battery backups,
and it turns off during the night,
and all that sort of stuff.
Well, I remember reading a couple of years ago
about a guy who was actually
running his consulting business out of his house,
and using a Raspberry Pi is his main web server,
and he basically hooked it up to the solar,
and running it 24-7-365,
so it was his main unit and everything.
Apparently, it was so much more cost-effective for him
to go this route in the long-term
that it made sense.
You can make...
Sorry, you can make Raspberry Plus together
and like a super computer, can you?
More than one, like to say,
keep ending together,
or keep getting to do that,
at the sort we could do that.
I don't know if I'd call it...
Yes, I've seen articles about this.
I'm sure you can cluster them, though.
I'm sure that happens,
but you're getting into the networking
and hardware costs,
then that, you know, I'm not sure.
And then you're not all applications,
like everyday applications,
like web servers,
well, I don't know about web servers,
but your general everyday application
just typically splits very well,
of course,
parallel computers like that.
Yeah, it's more of a science project than anything.
One thing that I'm continually, like repeatedly,
I'm tempted to try and figure out a way
to make like a water termine
and put it just on the tap,
the main tap of my house
so that anytime somebody runs water,
it would recharge a battery.
That'd be the way to run one of these things.
Nice.
You know, I had an idea yesterday
for a wind turbine, like a, you know,
a caterpillar track.
And you have a funnel
at the top of a caterpillar track.
I know it's mad. Probably inefficient,
but there you go.
No, that's actually not bad.
Some of the most efficient turbines
are the towers
that they collect air at the bottom
and it blows up like a chimney
and I think
shoot, I don't know.
They're supposed to be very efficient
because you get the heating of the air,
causing the air to rise,
but you also get like 360-degree input
of the thing.
And I know that's supposed to be pretty good.
Yeah.
Hello, bro.
Hey, guys.
Hey, bro.
I don't have no hair.
Sorry, I've been kind of busy
doing it.
You have it more or less correct.
It was always an internet handle.
So however it's pronounced in real life,
is however I answer to it.
Okay.
Hey, bro, if I forgot this year,
Merry Christmas. I'm not sure if I sent cards this year.
Your wife sent us a card.
So thank you.
Okay, right on.
We sent you a new year's card back.
I got it. It was fantastic.
We're supposed to send cards.
No, Poki just likes me.
Yeah, bro, I'm visiting my house.
Oh, thank you.
Thank you very much.
Oh, God, she's going to be so mad at me.
If I got to send a card to you,
Ken, let me just go to the post office
to put correct postage on it now.
It's worth it.
Who said that?
Who said that?
I'm not talking to you.
Well, if you're not talking to me anyway,
then I'm taking a bathroom break.
I'll be back there at all.
You go.
I was going to...
Sorry.
It's a bit sad trying not to interrupt.
I just did being sorry.
There we go.
Oh, I was going to say that,
well, the main reason I haven't been on the level
or a lot of the round tables is that my wife
is stealing my headset.
However, we have remedy to this this Christmas season.
So she may actually be on the show later.
May.
Not very good.
What headset do you use?
It's a Logitech 390.
I think it's an H390.
I'm not sure.
But it's just one of those USB headsets
and it works great.
H390.
How are you guys with mics?
Do you guys get, like,
really into your sound stuff?
I find that most of the podcasts
in here tend to have really
a sense of nice sounding mics.
And you notice someone
on a $10 mic,
quite quickly.
Yeah.
Like I'm using an audio
technical AT-2020,
the USB version,
which is one of the nicer mics
for doing podcasting.
It's pretty decent.
I mean, they're asking,
thinking about it.
Every one of them, you know,
what shall I get for them?
Like, it was like,
every different answer you could think of.
Zoom H2.
I use the Zoom H1,
you know,
just a standalone recorder.
They are beautiful, beautiful,
beautiful mics.
Oh, I was going to say that,
you know, there is no minimum requirement.
I'm using, like, a Sans of Fuse
to do my podcast in a car.
Yeah, there's no minimum,
but it's good to sound nice.
Yeah, I don't sound nice anyway,
so it's quite hard to make a good quality
mic with not much difference.
Right.
It sure we will accept audio.
So long as it's audible,
very important.
We've had people
require a cheap headset
as a microphone,
unsaid and not.
Well,
I'm saying I haven't got a headset right now
and I'm not quite enjoying it.
It's actually quite good in my hearing.
Oh, you said you'd like having the headset like?
No, I'd say I've gone you mic.
Since I spoke to you last time,
I'm not sure if you can tell the difference
and I'm actually quite enjoying it,
because it's just a normal stand mic.
Oh, okay. I see, I see.
I've got one of those scissor arms
right now, which is really nice,
because I can just like pull it towards me
if I need to.
Not like in my mouth.
One of the idea jobs?
Hmm?
One of the IKEA hacks.
Now, it used to be like,
I bought it on eBay for like 10 bucks,
which I guess is kind of like one of those hacks.
I just got rid of it for
the hack as the brand.
Oh, man, I forget.
One of the ones that's actually properly done.
Sorry.
I bought one off the second hand side
and the picture really quite big
and I found it was about four inches tall.
Oh, no. They're never as big as they look.
I know.
Wait, I don't think so.
Because I was expecting these stands
a bigger than they were until I got it in real life.
And I was like, wow, that's actually
not that intrusive or large in my life.
It was a lot of sort of based something on what,
yeah, the Chris Peserg, he just,
you know, a big cage thing.
I have one of those.
It's not the sort of thing that I'm thinking.
No.
I think his is a high off.
I forget what the heck of the brand I bought was.
But it's very similar.
Yeah, he told me to keep this,
this market was like three, four hundred bucks.
And I mean,
I find that like the $60 XLR mics are fine.
That's what Snakey seemed to keep.
Well, he seemed to just keep $60 on what it's fine.
It's like a big, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's what I've got.
You got a condenser mic like that.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
No one's going to go.
I was just going to say this is not the mic I used for recording.
But the thing I've got plugged into my phone right now is just the super cool thing
that I got recently.
It's a bone conduction headset like a bone conduction headphones.
And then it's got a mic.
So you can talk on your phone.
Or like people go jogging a lot.
So you don't have something stuck right in your ear.
So you can hear it.
But you can also hear everything going on around you.
Do you have a model number for that?
What was in the show?
Probably going to go look at the box.
I remember seeing that kind of thing back in the 80s.
And I never...
I was always wondering if that was going to ever catch on.
Because it seemed like there was out there
and then nobody really grafted towards it at all.
Sorry, what was this?
Okay, it's a headset that uses bone conduction thing.
It sits kind of on your jawbone.
This one is called...
The company is called aftershocks.
Andshocks is spelled SHOKZ.
If I'm not mistaken,
I think a lot of the more professional grade no like out in the field type mics do use that tech.
But it just doesn't sound the same as it does as the condenser mics and things do.
Using this mainly for the speakers instead of the microphone now.
Right.
Is it bone conduction speakers as well or is it any air plug?
It's a bone conduction speaker.
Now the microphone is just hanging down there.
You clip it out of your...
Oh, right.
Oh, sorry.
That's coming back.
That's coming back.
Bone conduction speakers.
Oh, bone conduction speakers.
Sports M2s.
S-P-O-R-T-Z-M2.
I think chain store we have here called Office Depot.
Yeah, I think it'll come back more now that people want all this like wearable computing stuff.
It'll become more useful because it doesn't interfere with your ears at all.
And you know, you just wear it with glasses.
So like Google Glass has incorporated that same exact technology.
Both for the speakers within the glass.
The bone conduction, the first time I heard about it, was a couple years ago when people wanted
like waterproof stuff because swimmers.
Right, you can do that's another option.
Yeah, it's another good use for it.
To answer, Marcus is quite well not really answered, but answered a question he didn't ask.
Marcus, I use a really cheap mic.
I found it in a trash can and it probably came with a...
Like one of those clip on web cams that you would see in the early 2000s that people were trying to use.
And the key to it is I have to have a specific and good sound card.
I found one that I like and I just move it from computer to computer whenever I upgrade.
But one thing that I'll do, if I remember to do it, before I start recording
or if I'm on a podcast or whatever, is I'll throw a towel down underneath it.
And it seems to dead in the echo and the tinniness of it just a little bit.
So it makes the room sound a little smaller if you know what I mean.
Yeah, but some people have really, really good sounding voices.
Like Williams is quite good on the mumble.
Of course, comes across quite well.
And mostly you guys are because you have that radio voice.
I just don't have that deep voice.
And with my accent, it's really hard to actually get across really well.
So I mean, all the time I've just showed up before.
All the time when you guys are talking.
I just have a radio person.
But the accent is a feature, not a bug, man.
Right, right.
And if you can, Marcus, if you can reduce the room noise,
then it shouldn't matter.
Your voice will come across much clearer.
It's when you have like, for instance, I have this little stick mic and I'm talking right at it.
But it's only about five inches tall.
And right below it, there's a glass desk and a plastic notebook computer.
So the noise bounces back a little bit.
And if I had a, you know, less bass in my voice,
you'd hear that because the higher pitches echo worse.
It seems to me.
I always found someone has a really good voice.
And mostly you guys do.
It doesn't really matter what type of mic guys are using.
To me, it still sounds quite good.
I mean, I probably don't have that hearing sounding,
sounding thing from likes that you guys that probably do.
I know you guys play around with sound all the time.
I come on the podcast.
We always talk about sound and sound quality.
And you guys just sound the same every time I hear you.
It's the best of the time.
Yeah, not me.
I never played with it.
Like I said, I found that one video card,
a sound card that works for me.
And I just one mic and I've just stuck with it for years.
I won't change.
Same here I use the Zoom H2 for everything.
And that's a good solution to Ken's H2
because Ken's voice isn't so bassy.
Yeah.
I think it also helps.
Which is a non-C8 when you talk.
And then it makes things a lot clearer.
That's crazy talk.
That's crazy talk.
It's really hard to slow it.
It's really hard to slow it down.
I have to slow it down because I talk quite fast anyway.
It's what your puppy does.
I think if you just start speaking and trying to do a non-C8 more,
you just get used to it and that's how you just end up speaking.
You guys get used to my scene after a while anyway,
much after.
Yeah, but sometimes you just mutter so much.
It's very hard to understand.
No, no, no.
You're fine.
And everybody listen to podcasts,
speed up to two, three times anyway.
So you're talking normally.
I do 1.75.
Leave that in your phone.
If that's you from Ken,
you are well sure.
Am I rich for Jesus?
I was just slow down the fire.
Bring me a point to get the leprechauns out here.
I mean really,
we're in the same boat really when they have voices really.
I was going to say,
I hope people don't speed up music podcasts to two or three times.
That is something I don't do.
I have a separate,
separate director who is an M-pother
to get me my music skills into a different one except
and this is the problem
for waffle casts
that have
music and waffle on the same.
I would, of course,
Oh, Scottish guys,
what do you call us?
Cribbons and that's him to this.
The next ones,
the other ones,
I joined the podcast that
he is about a month ago.
I didn't know who they were.
They were bloodening in.
I couldn't understand if we'd be seeded.
It was like,
I think with me on it,
that would have made it interesting podcast.
You guys have been fun,
but I'm going to take off.
Have a good time.
Glad you came on, John.
If you can make it back on, do so please.
It's great having you around.
I might check in again later.
See you guys.
Thanks for the website, dude.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Thank you.
Another topic,
and I'll start one off.
I'll sting my weeks by far.
Worthless.
Yeah, I'm about that time.
I mean, unless you have a steam box,
don't get me wrong.
If you have a steam box, it's probably great.
But if you just have a regular desktop EC
or something,
and you just want to play steam games,
I don't see why you just don't install steam
through your distra repos.
Or something.
I don't know why you would want to run the steam box.
The amount of development that's going on
with the Nvidia drivers because of it
is pretty impressive.
Sure, I suppose the
oh, the side effects
that it's created are pretty nice.
Yeah.
I will not say a bad thing though.
I think if you don't have a dedicated box,
it probably isn't very worthwhile for you.
If it's a dedicated box,
I mean, it doesn't have to be an official steam box.
It just has to be,
you know, maybe even a white box
that you just have sitting next to your TV.
Right, maybe at that point,
you run steam on it.
Or steam, as I should say.
And I'll use the disclaimer to say
that I'm not even using those drivers.
I'm using the new Volvo drivers,
but regardless,
I'm glad it's there.
I'll take you to another year.
I thought I found the new drivers are really good.
So I kind of afford a new graphics card.
If you look, it's always been good.
I don't notice the slight performance tweaks and things they do.
I like to play a couple games.
And I must admit,
I'll complied them quite well,
and they're all so I'm happy.
Two minutes.
Pretty thing.
Blick at me at Google.
William, let you go inside.
No, John.
Yeah.
That I'm making at Google.
It's fun.
Has it sitting down?
Mostly ups.
You like free food and stuff.
Yeah.
Who works at Google?
William does.
Excellent.
One minutes, 30 seconds.
Please allow me to go around.
Guys for it.
He's coming and saying I have fun with him.
I was just asking,
do we want to recording break too real quick?
Yeah, good plan. Let's do that now first.
S&D cases stop recording.
S&D cases started recording.
Can for long started recording.
Okay, now that's funny.
That's funny.
That was great.
53.
We're coming up on.
Next time to.
Is Queensland, Australia.
There's been.
Fort.
Roseby.
Guam.
And Harrens.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
I've done better than I can for long.
It's not sufficient for long.
Okay, yeah.
Is it Christian?
I'm going to have to,
can you go push the talk,
or can you put on some headphones please?
Okay, happy New Year.
Queensland, Australia.
It's been.
Fort.
And all those people that I,
I mentioned before,
we have been running now for four hours,
17 seconds.
Next.
We're in the morning.
We're early.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
How was the three o'clock in the morning,
where you were?
So, I'm on the New Zealand,
a nice work face.
Oh, yes,
because we've been running for four hours.
That's correct, yes.
But you saw it second first actually.
The humans actually kept me up to pass
for four, five years.
So, did we have a certain rant
that we wanted to hear?
Are you sure?
Do you not want to join Google Plus first?
I'm already on Google Plus.
You sure you don't want to make Google your homepage
for your fault by browser?
I don't want to.
I don't want to.
I don't want to.
I don't want to.
I don't want to.
I want to.
I want to.
I want to.
Are you sure you want to make Google your default search engine?
Please.
Please.
Do you want to comment on this?
Sorry, you can't read this application unless you join Google Plus.
Yeah.
I have to say.
Did you comment on this video?
No, join Google Plus.
Just, I mean, I like to play YouTube channel,
make a page. Yeah, it is kind of presumptuous of them to think that they're going to weave
Google Plus through all their products and make it the default for everything. And you
can think of a plus for that.
What's annoying me, I've had four accounts this year, all under the same name, I've
had to re-elect the account like four times. And now I can't do it online because you
have to do it twice, once you've done it more than twice, you need a new phone number.
What is only two phones in this house? So I can't re-elect the back of my YouTube account,
which is personal.
You're going to borrow someone's phone from someone.
Oh, you know, it's really fun trying to use a phone with a Google Apps installed without
logging in. It prompts you all the time.
Yes.
Which is why I installed signage in mod and conveniently forgot to make that step happen.
I must admit that I've actually been in Juin Google Plus lately again. It's a bit like
a minute something, even now you don't like it. You can go, you can go to the same people
that have the same interests. And if you don't want to add certain people, you can unaw them
and quite a lot of that about Google Plus.
And it's not a degree. You need a degree to figure out how it works because it's always
changing on a daily basis. Every day, I know something different. With the notifications
or something happening, something new in the Hangouts or something new for a while.
I like the hangout notifications. I do get the hangout notifications. I can talk
what it works. I can't work. I can't work it. It's just a bus straighting. Every time
they do something good, they break ten other things.
Yeah, they do.
Sorry, I just think it's a complete closed wall garden approach to the internet. It's
one step closer to AOL, Compuser, American, that sort of thing. It's tracking people into
being authenticated. It's breaking down the user web. It is not open. There are no APIs
to get into it. There are no APIs to get out of it. It is a complete design wise. It's
completion total disaster. Accessibility wise, it's completion total disaster. Tracking,
as we saw, it's a hotbed for people internationally to go tracking users every call, every opinion
that you have can be tracked there. I completely, I really feel, in the last year, Google
as an organization, who I respected, have really left down the whole world largely because
of their push, Google plus. They've turned from being an organization I've wanted to work
for, to be an organization I'm actively trying to distance myself from. There you go.
I think to me, it feels like they've stuck with Do No Evil, but they've changed their
definition of what evil is. They're moral compass that needs recalibration, maybe.
Don't get me wrong. I know several people work in Google and they're all nice guys, but
whoever is pushing this Google plus thing on everybody, it is the epithemy. There was a time
when you go to the Google page. It was clear. It was one thing. Put your search in here. You're
going to do your search. We're going to give you search results and the search results will be
on the side. Now, especially since I've been using tablets and formed mobile devices on
Flaky Internet connections or on 3G, on mobile connections. This responsive feedback,
no, I didn't. I'm typing in cow, and I guess, catalog, cow, no, I don't want all these search
results. I just want you to shut up. Let me type what I want to type in, press enter, and give
me search results back. I found that Dr. Go, who we've interviewed on this network, provides a lot
easier forward slash HTML, Dr. Go forward slash HTML, and you just get a HTML page. Nobody's
trying to show predict what you're going to say. Well, I will say so far you've done a good job,
Ken, but as a warning and as a personal request, because I've seen this done in person, but
should someone from Google come along, please don't ask them to answer for what you don't like about
Google. A few of the guys did that at the Northeast Linux Fest last year, and just rake this
four girl over the coals, and she had nothing to do with it. No, no, I'm cranked. I don't want to,
I don't want to put anybody on the spot here, but this is something. And so far you haven't,
just just requesting it. This is something that I think is directly coming from the fact
to become a multinational company, and that now the engineers appear no longer to be
going into the company, or since this change of since Sergey took over or whoever, the push to
Google plus has been has been to the detriment of Google also in the search engine. Search engine
results now are more there's a presumption that you want to know what's going on, what what
somebody is eating, what somebody has had for breakfast, what they latest news is, what your
friends are thinking. Actually, 90% of my searches I've discovered are actually I'm looking for
a article that was written 14 years ago. It's about a specific chip. It's about a specific document
or about something else. I don't know, I think. Sorry, go ahead. No, I was going to say I think it's
kind of helped in many ways, and at least for me, the sort of personal tailoring to what you search,
what you do. I can't say I really have any out in the left field ads, or you know, added in search
results that don't really belong to the search slim querying for. I would argue strongly against that,
if I'm looking at articles, if I'm searching for a particular thing on the Raspberry Pi or if I'm
looking for stuff like that, the results you're going to get first in Google are the ones with
people's little faces on us, because if you're taking the time to put a little photo of there,
that means obviously the quality of what you're typing is more important than somebody who's
who hasn't done that. That is the assumption. One thing I really agree with the
other thing is I can't see. One thing I do like on that moment is blogger. I think bloggers
actually quite good, but then they're not going to probably change that tomorrow, so you can't really
keep up. We already gone ahead and integrated G plus into blogger. Oh, well, all right, that's
not growing. You can't win. It's like something weeks, another thing doesn't.
Can I jump in? Can I throw it? All right, two things. The first one is that I will say having
worked on a large multinational.com, which I will not name, because that means that colors
everything I say for the next 12 hours, and that's not happening, that there is something in
SEO about people are more likely to click on an article if they think it's written by a human
rather than a company. There's an image of a human next to it. Now, does that mean that
should be prioritized? No. We didn't really do that. We just asked people for human images for
their avatars when they become an author on our site. And the other thing is that
filter bubbles are actually kind of a real thing. I really have to struggle, even with Duck Duck
Go sometimes, to find a search that isn't something that I've already seen before. In Duck Duck Go,
it doesn't remember you, but I have to alter my search terms, and if I have a bunch of personal
results tailored to what I've already searched for, and I'm deliberately not trying to search for
those things, then I'm going to have a problem. And that kind of feeds into my take on this,
and that is what the way Google is going now. That makes it harder for me to run my website to
actually get my search results to be linked better, because even if I'm doing everything
correctly SEO-wise, the results don't always turn up where you'd expect them to, or get the
relevance that you would hope that they would, because Google has decided that my content isn't
well-known as some other site, so it doesn't make any difference.
You're not as popular as some other guy. Right, but it's not necessarily always about popularity.
It isn't that relevant. Okay, can I point you to an advertisement released by Google
a few that I saw a few weeks ago. It was that Indian ad where it was about partition between
India and Pakistan, and the internet is old friend, and the whole premise of the advertisement is
you go on Google, and you enter your search results, and she was able to find her father's friend
who had been left behind in Pakistan. That was a Google ad where price for cake.
No, that was a Google ad. Each one to every single one of the results. The first hit was a Wikipedia
article. Right, remember back in the day when Yahoo had a curated list of how you found
around the web. That was before we had, we had an altivist as a search engine, prior to that,
we had Google come along, prior to that, was altivist, or prior to that, was a curated list.
From Yahoo. What the web is turned into now is if you want to find something,
you go to Google to find the Wikipedia article, and then you go to Wikipedia. I'm around,
around, around. If someone satious for my name, my name, all I get is keys of war characters.
I'm quite sweet. I'm pretty safe. But yeah, I don't agree with you with the satious thing.
Anyway, that's enough about that. Well, you know, the thing that impresses me these days is the fact
that you can actually run your own search engine and actually do appear to appear a search engine
with other people who maybe actually have more interest in having content that you actually want.
And you can actually go ahead and use like YACC to actually basically build a better engine.
And that seems to me to be the way to go because this way, having decentralized search engine,
we get what people actually want to have out there instead of what some companies telling us that
they want us to have. Well, it's not so much that maybe Google is telling us what we want to have
or not, which is a case that they are the best search, the war of the best search engine
hands down. But right now, I think Dr. Goal is as good as Google was.
Has anyone noticed about the YouTube searches, how some videos, you can do a video and put
in trial and everything in it and not do the tags right. It won't go any way.
We can do a video that it's nothing in a platform just you're yicking on and if you do the right
search tags, you can get 300, 400 hits in the first 10 minutes and nothing else after it.
I'm finding that YouTube searches have actually changed a little bit lately.
What does it surprise me? Okay, I need to interject something real quick.
I just said it was YACC, was it search engine?
It's YACC. YACC. YAC Y-
I know what it does. I've tried YACC.
It's okay. It's really lacking.
You get some really, really awful search results because the network is just really tiny.
Well, people out there, it's a question of getting people to join and actually index stuff that
is worthwhile to have. Right. I think they might have what was it,
20, 12, 20 billion pages indexed, which is just such a miniscule amount of the internet.
Not to mention, a lot of it just plays into how you rank these pages, the algorithms
to use for that.
And I just don't think YACs are there yet.
I love a world where 20 billion is a small number.
Well, and the thing is 20 billion.
But the thing is, why don't you actually go ahead and put up a Yassi node and go out
and start indexing some sites and pages and add to that yourself, you know, add things
that you think are worthwhile to have.
Conflictive interest?
How is it a conflictive interest?
So, if it's, you know, if you're picking up things like when I had my node up, I don't
have it up now, but I was actually going out in the indexing gemendo and a number of
the net label sites and things that I want to actually help promote Creative Commons music.
So I was indexing a lot of that stuff and putting it out there.
The thing that's unfortunate is that I feel like for a default install of YAC, there should
be like an option that just says go around and like randomly index things or have some
sort of like offloading for the network so you can go ahead and index a bunch of stuff
that other people might want so that your node's not just sitting there idle if you don't
really maintain it.
Right, right.
They need something like that.
They're missing that.
So, if it equals 20% or less, go do this.
Right.
It doesn't really have some sort of like background scanning for people who don't, you know, manually
go in and add places to scan.
And I think that's sort of a problem right now for the YAC network because it sort of requires
users to know where things already are.
It needs some more scrounging around searching capabilities in its hats, especially for
just a default install.
It should be the case that you can install a YAC and as one of the use cases, have it
in just your intranet.
Just have it index sites that are local to you and then don't push databases up.
That's good.
No, what I'm saying is I like that concept, but I think there needs to just be another
option that says go ahead and automatically figure out what you need to index and use
some my CPU, use some my network resources for the good of the entire open pool without
me having to intervene with that process and tell it where I want it to index because
right now I won't just go out and automatically start indexing things if you set like the
open share everything option.
Yeah, I'm trying to figure out how it could do that because basically you're saying fine
stuff that I want to search for, but you're not giving it some place to start from, you
know, you know, what would you give me as a starting point to start from?
Right.
I was saying sort of offload some of the work from the rest of the network.
So there may be other users who want to do things.
Maybe they want a lot of things and their node just can't index that much stuff, you
know, there should be like a pool of outstanding work that other users might want that you can
sort of take on and then based on the priority of that work from the peer-to-peer pool,
take on a certain chunk, take on the highest priority, do whatever.
Yeah.
There are sort of, you know, consensus algorithms for doing that kind of stuff.
It's just something that they haven't built in yet, it's not something that they kind
of need.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Well, since you start getting into that though, then you start getting into kind of doing
what Google does and saying, here's a consensus of what, you know, XYZ people agree on, which
maybe you don't agree with, you know, or maybe you don't want to actually follow.
So, right.
I think a lot of the problem that people are having with Google that they're not having
with DuckDuck is simply the fact that the searches are personalized for you.
This doesn't personalize the searches for you.
It personalizes the searches for the aggregate, which just I would disagree with that.
You don't like DuckDuck?
I think my problem with DuckDuck is, the problem with Google is that it's, I don't use personalized
searches at all.
My problem is that it is full of Google plus articles that I have noticed.
Can we take a quick break to welcome some new people who showed up and, uh, you know,
see if we can fix this technical issue?
Yes, I actually wanted to welcome Jonathan Nado from the Orca project here, because I'm
sure he's joined us to actually talk about Orca a bit.
Yes, let's do that.
Sorry, I brought the whole tone of the afternoon down.
Jonathan are you there?
The other person's also joined us as a origami.
I think something's happened to Ken's network connection, or I can't hear him.
Oh, I'm just not talking for once.
Can you hear me now?
Yes, yes.
So, yes, there you go.
Interesting discussion, sound chaser, they, uh, I think your point is that, or if I'm
understanding correctly, is that the two different principles about the, uh, how do you
pronounce it?
Yaki?
Yasi.
Yasi.
Or yeah.
Yasi or Yasi?
Yeah.
It's really interesting.
If you listen to the video, it's really hard to figure out exactly how the, uh, the,
the author of this offer is actually saying it's probably Yasi, just judging by the way
they capitalize the sea.
I don't know.
Like, it's two syllables that way.
So correct me if I'm wrong, but is they, is the principle behind that is that you create
your index of your curation stuff.
That's right.
That's right.
So therefore, that wouldn't technically lend itself to, okay, I'm on a, I'm at the back
of a slow connection, but I want to index all these sites.
Well, could I not then in some way proxy that through sound chasers if there was a sort
of agreement there?
Is that, is that kind of a question?
No, they don't.
Yeah.
Well, the search indexing doesn't, by itself, I mean, the actual indexer runs on your
system.
Exactly.
But, but the search results are shared over peer-to-peer connection to all the other
nodes in the network.
So once you have actually set up your, your scan, your results are shared.
Yeah.
No, I get that.
But say I, I'm on a low resource connection.
Right.
I can't.
I can't.
That's what all floor does to, no, and that's what I want.
That's what I really want, you see, to have.
In that case, it wouldn't, what you want is the feature where it would come up.
It's, the work is physically being done by sound chasers machine, but it's been registered
to you.
Something like that, yeah.
The issue I would see with that would be abuse or spam or something like that.
So that's probably why they're not, you know, doing it.
Well, anonymously, there'd be abuse and spam, but if there were something as an agreement
between the two of you, that would be fine.
Well, that would be fine too, but you could also limit, you know, the amount of work you
do for the public so that even if there was spam going around, it really wouldn't impact
you so much it would just be going on in the background.
It really low priority, low resource, well, you can, you know, but at least does some
work.
You, you can already limit the, the indexing part of that.
So even if you were to go ahead and have something set up where you could actually offload
work to other people, they can actually control what they're indexing speed and how much
band width is actually being used and how much storage is actually being used.
So those kind of capabilities are there already.
It would just be a matter of setting up and I kind of like what Bromet suggested, which
is actually setting up kind of agreements between nodes to actually go ahead and share.
Yeah.
I was actually trying to think of a better word for it.
Like the way, what is the, what is the, the diaspora set, yeah, pods or whatever and has
actually a, like a peer level agreement between different things like that, but it would
be nice if you could just, you know, also have an option to just accept all peers, you
know, like because there are people out there who legitimately will just pay to have services
that run for the peers, for the rest of the network, for the good of the network.
Yeah.
So it would be nice to have those things available.
Yes, they will get spanned.
That is the problem with these decentralized anonymous networks.
It's always an issue.
Yeah, but then it's still, it's still, if I'm, if I'm Mr. Spammer and I use one of those
services, then we can choose to filter out Mr. Spammer's search results from the search
results.
Well, I guess she hears part of the problem that I see with this and that is, especially
here in the States where we're being held responsible for anything that's on our hard drives.
If I've got a bunch of, of pornography is going through and putting out index requests
for their, for their pornography websites and their, their trafficking, like child porn,
now I've got a bunch of indexes on my, on my box that actually point to a bunch of child
pornography stuff.
Right.
And if there's ever any investigation, then I'm, I'm kind of screwed with that.
But is anyone who offers any service screwed if anyone can put input into it?
If I can upload child porn to anything, isn't that the same exact problem?
Well, if I have control over it, I can say I'm not accepting, you know, your request
because I'm pretty sure you're going to spam me with pornography.
But see, this is a political issue at that point.
This is something that needs to be fixed at a different level.
No, it's, it's, it's not, it's a, it's some guy pulling child porn through sound
chaser's house that is in the political issue, that's a, that's a, he's going to get sent
down issue.
It's not political.
No, but the political fault, the political issue is that you are responsible for everything
even if other people had to say and how it was operated.
Yeah, but then again, I, you know, you could prove, oh, I have a, oh, I have a open
Wi-Fi and then, yeah, I mean, for example, how does, how does Dropbox handle that?
People have probably storing child porn on there.
What if it's them?
If they find it, they will close that account and kick you out.
Right.
So you could have the same policy internally.
Yeah, but there's a difference between a corporation and a regular job role.
We don't have a team of lawyers.
No problem.
Well, no, it's not just a problem, it's legal, it's legal problem, but it's not just that
because I'll give you an example while I was itself a couple of years ago, somebody
actually managed to break into my router and actually got on and bit torrented down some
music illegally, gets who got the DMCA notice.
I got it, not the person who actually did it.
So I'm responsible at that point, whether or not it was my fault that the router was open
which it really wasn't, somebody actually hacked it.
But I'm still responsible for the content having moved through my router.
And that's the same thing with Yossi and anything else.
You are responsible for how your services are used.
Period.
Which, if you don't have the stomach, don't run them simple, but if you want any control,
you need to actually run it yourself.
So then I guess, yes, if that's your problem, don't allow other people to push stuff
through your service.
Are any of you committed with open wireless.org?
Speaking of services are good, good.
I mean, the only way to solve that is so that you have plausible deniability in this,
so that if they route stuff through you, you can't know what that stuff is.
That gets into something that I've actually wanted to see.
I've actually wanted to see a completely encrypted distributed file system so that you could
store, say, the search results or something like Yossi on a file system that you could
never look at.
So that way, because it's not actually stored completely on your own system, that way
you would have deniability all the way through because you wouldn't know what searches are
going on and you wouldn't know what's getting indexed and you have no way to actually look
at the data.
Then you've got complete deniability.
That's called free net.
Yeah, I know free net is pretty close.
I don't know if they meant exactly what I wanted.
I think I actually wanted to done it at a file system level, not just at an upper level
like you were doing it.
Yeah, and that would get so ridiculously slow the way their protocols set up.
It would just take so long that you wouldn't really want it at the file system level.
That's why I think it needs a different implementation to actually make it a file system level.
I think actually we have two minutes to go for the next time though, but I think a lot
of this, what we're saying would be thrown out of code because we're on the end of not
a business line, but our private line and most of our contracts come with this stipulation
that we're not allowed to run additional services on our lines and therefore we would
accept the data.
So therefore we're doing illegal stuff in the first place.
Well I for one think we should bring the internet phone book back at that way we can
just have everything in our fingertips in indexed.
You can just hand it right over to the NSA.
I think you guys, you should all that stuff should be opened up the whole NSA archive that
way they've already indexed it internetfully.
Well, you know, there was that get prism out there.
Have you joined that?
You can get your data back.
I'm not so sure about that.
I've heard that they've had several catastrophic power failures and have lost their servers
a few times.
I don't know how correct or true it is or either.
What is gay?
Is there a trait that the NSA can't crack into mumble yet?
Well, I know I'll see someone can come in here and hoard any more.
I just log in.
Yes.
No.
We're streaming for God's sake.
Yeah.
I don't think not mumble, but no, what they haven't done is they are still having problems
with tour, the onion router.
They basically can't track people through tour.
Yeah, but considering how slow tour can be, is it it's not something you can use full
time without losing your sanity?
Not to mention if they really wanted you on tour, there is that one, you know, if they're
watching everything, they can tell when a request is made and when a request was answered
and they can put two and two together.
It's a big job, but if they're already doing a big job, that seems a small part of
it to me.
Yeah, for two.
Well, I think what the NSA says, you don't know what you were doing, they have no idea
what you were doing either.
So you're fine.
No.
No.
No.
No.
Yeah.
You might know what you're doing, but it's very easy for somebody to come up with a, let's
carry this over to the next, to the next time zone, we've got another one going in nine
seconds.
So let's welcome Darwin, our springs, and Happy New Year, everybody.
Happy New Year.
And the whole Northern territory as well.
So Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
So the thing, the thing with the NSA and not being concerned if you, if you're not doing
anything illegal, that's just not something you can be certain about at all.
Part of the problem is that, and one of the things that people don't seem to remember or
get about this is the NSA, if they are doing any kind of investigation, even if it's not
about you or you're not a target of it, but if some search results or some results turn
up that suggests you might be doing something that needs to be looked at more, they can pass
that on to any other authorities that they want to.
So you could be doing something as simple as, you know, I don't know, I'm trying to think
of a good example.
Yeah.
I'd expect the Snowden last month and her survive and also might expect the dot com means
that I'm probably on the NSA watchlist thing.
I would bet money that you are.
That's right.
I wouldn't know what I'm doing anyway, because I never do change my YouTube channel either
five minutes.
And by association, it means that the rest of us are now as well.
Yeah.
Thank you.
He has dragged us all into your, the investigation into your background.
So my guys, I'm afraid I've already done enough years ago.
Yeah, right.
Irish guy who's been to Cuba and Algeria.
Come on.
Oh, there you go.
Oh, my gosh.
Crucified us all.
I don't know.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Well, there goes, but he's Irish.
So there's going to run off the drunk.
So there's no problem.
I bet Rome could explain this better than I can.
So maybe I should just leave it to him, but Rome, how, how well do you understand and
can explain the theory of the false positive?
Because that is my biggest fear.
Well, having been nailed in a couple of false positives, not by the NSA, but other things.
Um, actually, here's the funny thing.
I'm really weak in statistics.
So if you're listening to this after the fact and you're like screaming at your monitor,
I'm sorry.
This was my weakest subject in college.
I'll do my best.
Effectively, how to explain every, every test is, every test has a discriminant or like
basically, you know, you're trying to say these, these things pass the test, these things
fail the test.
And the way statistics works is that you have to say the test is, let's, let's assume
for a minute, it's 99.9% accurate.
Sure.
It, the law large number states that if you, you know, keep doing this long enough, one
of those really minuscule rare changes is going to show up.
And so no matter how you optimize your test for false positives or false negatives, the
way, the way the test works and the way test work in general is if you optimize for say
false negatives, that means that you never have a false negative.
That means you're going to have a lot of false positives.
So that means you can be reasonably sure that, you know, if you never have a false negative
that, now I have to remember what a false negative is.
Great.
False negative means that no one who's guilty will ever make it through the filter, but
it, right, but you will have false positives, meaning many innocent, or a certain percentage
of innocent people will, and I shouldn't say innocent guilty people, but test passers, test
fails, whatever you want to say, innocent people will be caught by the filter and be further
scrutinized.
So if you have, if your test is 99% accurate, and you, that means that 1% of the time, you
will have a false positive.
You will have somebody who appears to be a bad guy who really isn't a bad guy.
Now you can extend that number out and say you're 99.99% sure to never have a false positive
or you can say you're 99.99, 99, 99, you know, go to five nines.
It doesn't really matter how far out you go.
You always have false positives.
And even if it's, even if it's only one 100th or one 10,000th of the time that you have
a false positive, if you're checking 7 trillion records a day, that's actually a large number
of false positives to deal with, and you're spending more of your time either scrutinizing
those to determine whether or not they're false positives or prosecuting them.
And prosecutions are a little more efficient.
So I don't want to put, putting me in sign on funny is not a good thing, I don't mean
too good.
So the question is, I don't know if any of you played this game, you know, looking back
at your own history and determining if you're a terrorist or not by the NSA standard.
No, and if you're going to, I might as well leave the room so I don't want no part of
it.
What is this?
I just look back at my life, like how I could frame myself knowing all the stuff I did,
you know, as I've actually gone to Cuba and gone to Algeria, I don't even want to think
about it.
And I don't want to think about it.
There's so many farm access to ammonia and explosives did the engineering degree with
access to science blah blah blah.
Involved with a website with hacker in the name, yeah, it's on the internet.
These are all keys that would trigger a false positive.
And that's, I mean, it just, it terrifies me because nobody is immune.
Yeah, but at what point, at what point does a false positive become, well, there's no,
you know, where they smoke this fire, you know, all that, all, all somebody has to say
is that.
And then, oh, yeah, you know, I would imagine it'll all start with some political motivation,
right?
Like you want someone taken out of office and you go and try and take up some dirt.
And so then you start finding keywords and this keyword or things you can use to find
other people.
You know, I don't know.
They try to do that to Ralph Nader.
They fit miserably.
Yeah.
Well, horrendous, if say somebody were politically motivated and tried to have certain political
parties audited by the IRS, that I got forbid something like that ever happened.
Right.
Well, that may actually be a good thing, but no, no, I've got a Muslim friend, he's a
pilot.
And his last name is a saying, oh, he used to be a flatmate online and he flies to
rock around everywhere for quite a while.
And I'm just saying God, they haven't looked on my Facebook page.
Special is a sadder stuff for the heck of public radio and everything else going on.
It's terrible for those people because they get, they get pulled aside every time.
They pretty much have to spend an extra three hours at the airport for no reason.
I have a former coworker who's of Lebanese descent and we worked for trade show companies
and she didn't always fly on site, but she always had the budget extra time when she
flew.
Yeah, you do.
It's funny, especially when they know it's like, yeah, I'm going to show up like three
hours before everyone else does because I know what's going to happen when I walk through
security.
I'm not scared off going overseas because I'm used to work at the airport, like we
put for a couple of years and the customs girl goes to me one day, guys, if you ever
go to a customs, you're going to be in trouble, you're going to be staying in the country
there.
Wait, what?
She just said you're going to be in trouble.
Yes, she was, let me wear and wear.
No reason.
No reason.
She just keep the hell out of me, I'm just like, no, I don't want to go through here.
They just want to keep people in the country.
Yeah.
No.
Right.
Is it not the safest country in the world?
It's because you've got no predators or venomous animals.
I don't think it's to us that one of them, we're pretty safe.
Don't even have an Air Force here.
You know, a dangerous animal is a parrot the size of a basketball.
Probably.
The pig would probably be the dangerous animal in the island, I think.
Yeah.
Yeah, no, I was kidding, just those basketball, flightless parrots, the muse of hell out of
me.
Right.
Peas, they're actually quite good, interesting boots actually.
They actually, they actually attack cars, they go on to sit on cars and they'll take
off, they'll take off all the, like, all the, when the screen ripers, they'll actually
start playing with them and they'll actually take off all of their stuff.
The people go out, go out, go out for the walk when they leave the car next to this
natural bush and stuff.
I come back and I've got that one-screen walkers on them.
Yeah, this bird, if you ever look into this bird, everything about it was designed to
be Darwin to write out a existence, like tens of thousands of years ago, but because there
are no predators, this thing has, like, stumbled along the evolutionary process and continued
to live.
Like, it's mating call.
It has this, like, deep, almost subsonic mating call that's impossible for the females
to locate the male birds.
They're just calling and calling and it's, well, where are you?
I can't, I can only call, you know, like, the way that subsonic bass noises echo around
they're impossible to locate.
Right.
You can't locate.
You just hear that they're there.
Right.
Right.
Except for maybe a predator with pointy ears that, you know, point at the thing.
So it's just, it's just weird, weird bird that should not exist, but only does because
there are no predators or no natural predators in New Zealand.
I'd love to have one as a pet though.
It's fantastic bird.
They're quite, they're quite interesting birds, actually.
Our National Birds Kiwi that's as born as crap, but the key, actually, it's sort of being
our National Bear because it's actually a lot more interesting to read about and stuff
and that it's all the ancient one, one of those is a pet either, probably make friends
with that two cats quite easily.
I have a key, I have a Kiwi on my desk here.
My wife brought him back from New Zealand.
I don't know if he's stuffed or completely fake, but I'm here on the desk.
That one of those ones they get from the tourist shops is like a big thing with a big pillow
type thing in the middle.
That big yellow, big, big, one of those big, I don't know, just amazing how big it is.
Oh, this one's small.
He's not even as big as a golf ball.
It is.
Well, his main body, the lumpy part of him is not as big as a golf ball.
Overall, he's a little bigger, but I think he's made of a block of wood with some hair glued
to it.
It's 4 o'clock in the morning here, so I'm going to another 15 hours to go, I'll be
just waiting.
My wife goes to work in every day.
Go to bed.
That's right.
They are lying on mumble for the last two years.
I'll make sure you used to bring it up this time.
It's one of the different times I'm going to make it's hair.
Yeah, it's funny, it looks from your coworker, so don't you?
You're putting that away up with Pat on at the moment, so it's okay.
That's what you guys need, you topic, and you talk to me.
Somebody paste a picture of the bird.
Yeah, I find one, which I will please.
Yeah, please, Marcus, because I don't even know what the bird is called, I wouldn't know
how to find it again.
I know what it's cool.
And you can want to talk about the open wireless stuff.
Well, I'm actually lying down on the floor at the minute of class.
How does that work, guys?
Well, basically, the open wireless is a, if you have an open wireless.org SSID on your
Wi-Fi connection, people know that they can basically join us.
All right.
So, I mean, just put a separate VLAN or something in the open wireless on your network.
In principle, yes, but it's on my to-do list.
There you go, Ken.
I don't know what the first bird was called, but there's the second one.
This KIA is the one you're thinking of.
The initial piece, the normal test completed.
I find it interesting that they talk about how the EFF is currently working on a technology
that supports open wireless in an elegant and secure fashion.
I feel like it's called VLANs and a gateway which supports multiple LAN segments.
I suppose for an end user who's not very tech savvy, that isn't very elegant.
Are you talking about me now?
I don't know.
Well, they're saying a lot of the organizations right now are, you know, cable providers here
have out of the box, they split it all so that you can have a shared network connection
if you're one of the cable customers.
Ken, you're a turd. I'm watching you type that.
Yeah, I think my company has something similar to that.
Similar to that.
Yeah, and the two cable providers won, whichever firm the other one.
If you're a customer, you can just have Wi-Fi access anywhere and all on the shared network connections.
What I don't like though is that you're still kind of held accountable for anything that happens on the open Wi-Fi that you have.
Yeah, that is troublesome.
That needs to be changed somehow.
Yeah, I just agreed with you earlier on, but I do actually agree with you because I think it's just good neighborly practice here.
That's what's good neighborly practice anywhere I think.
Yeah, exactly.
It's just good practice in general.
Like, free open Wi-Fi should just be a thing of the future.
Today I learned I hate my neighbors.
It should be a thing of the present, really.
From that too.
The next time you have free Wi-Fi spots, why do you sell them at the moment?
You can pretty much get free Wi-Fi if you go to the right place.
The next time you pop up, you free Wi-Fi.
Yeah.
Supermarkets with us getting them a nail.
So it's happening more and more here in the States, too.
But it's not completely pervasive, especially when you go to local residences and stuff.
No one knows how to configure their setup.
So Wi-Fi is all sorts of weird.
But if people start getting some sort of out-of-the-box thing that has an open wireless, it's this ID, then it makes it really easy.
And I mean, even if it limits it so that the open wireless, you know, is the lowest priority traffic on the network.
That would be fine.
We're just getting an ultra-fast broadband here.
The line that wire in the out-of-the-box is about finished.
So quite a few places got ultra-fast.
But I can't remember how it was.
But they said there's no point having really fast broadband, because if you've got a limit on your data,
you'll just use it up in one or two days.
Yeah, we have that problem actually here.
My provider will give me, I think, a 200 gig down, and like 100...
I think it's like 100 gig up a month.
But even if you upgrade your plan, like let's say I'm on the 7 megabits down, and 600 kilobits up.
And then I upgrade to the 25 megabits down, and I believe it's like 1.5 megabits up.
I'll still have that same cap.
So it really doesn't help me at all to go to the faster speed, because I'll still just hit the cap again.
And I'll just... I'll end up hitting it faster in those cases.
It's exactly what I used to do.
And I used about 200 gig per month.
And that's a lot.
I mean, I did download a lot of ICOs, ICOs and stuff.
And my wife was getting faster, because we're spending 100 bucks a month on broadband.
And I'm putting two weeks on useful with that.
And she'd get pissed off at me.
So we went to our limited plan for 7 megabits a month for slower internet.
But it doesn't really think I want to do it, so I'm happy.
We've never had any more issues.
So I'd draw the head slash spades in unlimited, in a big, faster space.
And these are all once.
What do you say? You said you downloaded how many ICOs?
I don't know. I said stuff.
I said it differently.
So I kind of guess that I was just joking.
It can't tell me off about that.
He doesn't want me to sign it.
I'm always to see ICOs.
I see it sounds like a really bad breakfast cereal.
I see ICOs are the old icon files.
They're like, you know, if they're a kid, that's huge.
Ritch line, Rich.
Hello folks.
Hey, Rich, what's up?
What's been happening, man?
I've been hanging out with Sonny Southern Command for about two weeks.
Right on.
From in hot and sweaty on Christmas Day.
Couldn't believe it.
We were just talking about you the day before yesterday, my brother and I.
Oh, really? What do you got?
His kid was watching that the plane's movie, I think it's called.
Oh, sure.
The one plane came on that looked just like yours.
And I said, hey, I know somebody's got one of those.
I was like, really? You're no guy with a plane?
I said, he's crashed three times.
He said, Dad, never mind.
Wait, wait, two and a half.
It wasn't three.
Two and a half, sorry.
How do you crash two and a half times?
It's either you crash three times.
Well, one time he landed on his wheels.
Well, okay.
Well, one time I crashed into two houses.
And one time I landed on a street and I took out, let's see, a power wire on the way down.
Speed limit sign, stop sign, and I hit a car.
And in fact, since...
Did you have to pay for all that?
Oh, really?
He is sounding.
I hope so.
I don't want to pay for that. That's my tax dollars.
And so the goof is the only car accident I've had since I've been flying was that.
Right on.
And then there was time I had a brake failure on landing.
And I retracted the nose gear and that allowed me to stop within the length of the runway.
Because it was actually a short runway and I had three people on the plane, which is full capacity.
So it's...
I would say it's a real challenging runway, but it's...
If you have a failure, it is a big, big issue.
So, yeah, that's why I called two and a half.
What forced you down the other two times?
The first time the engine failed and I have a fuel injection system on the plane and I don't think it was working quite properly.
And what somebody told me that has the same fuel injection system is that on landing typically you go full-rich on the mixture.
And I was full-rich on the mixture at idle and this fellow said he was like, oh, he never does that with that fuel injection system.
It'll flood and you won't be able to restart it.
So I tried to restart the engine and the only thing I didn't try is to do a clear flood procedure, which you pull basically mixture cut off in full throttle.
And that'll clear the flood.
And that's the only thing I didn't try on that.
The second accident, the canopy flew open and stuff flew out of the plane and took out the propeller.
So I had a really horrific vibration and basically it was developing though thrust.
And I was like, nine nautical from the nearest airport and I closed it within four nautical.
And just as I was passing this road, I realized my altitude was pretty low and I kind of did a two drop maneuver back to the road
and I'm like, well, that's where I'm landing.
Oh wow. What hit the prop would came out?
Immediately my headset blew away.
Were you just littering? Please tell me it was a co-bottle.
Yeah, I think actually I think it was a one liter water bottle that took the prop out.
And how that exit your passenger compartment?
Well, the canopy flew open and you know the props in the back.
So whatever comes out of the cockpit goes through the propeller.
Would you have like a latch let go or something?
Yeah, I had a canopy latch failure.
Jesus, and is it hinged at the front at least so it didn't rip the canopy off to it?
No, it's hinged at the right hand side.
And then there's a gas strut.
So it kind of ripped the gas strut off and it lays full right.
And the canopy develops about 400 pounds of lift.
So it will open and stay stable and open.
Right, right, okay, I get it.
So the plane is completely flyable.
It means your landing speed is a bit higher.
And so the whole funny thing, it's kind of an interesting story.
I'm on the ground and I'm taking things out of my plane.
And you know, the local police officer is like,
you can't touch that, that's a crime scene.
I'm like, wait a sec, that's my plane, those are my things.
I'm taking them out.
And not to mention you're probably a little shook up at this point.
Oh, sure, sure.
And then the cop, you know, hands me his phone.
He's like, the FAA on the phone.
He's like, you will be in a little rock Arkansas tomorrow at 9 a.m.
To talk to us for an interview.
I said, I beg to differ with you.
I'm a consultant.
I work at the Mayo Clinic.
I am getting back there as soon as I can humanly possibly get there
and be in familiar surroundings.
If you want to see me, you will come and see me there.
There is nothing you can do to compel me to be in little rock
Arkansas tomorrow morning.
And, you know, the cop was kind of shocked, I handed the phone back.
And, you know, that, that was it.
And then when I, the bad part about having a plane crash is the next thing you have to do
to get to where you want to go is get on another plane.
And, which since I'm experienced at that, didn't bother me.
But it's not the topic, you know, even though it's the first thing on your mind,
you don't want to turn to your next pastor.
Say, yeah, I just had a plane crash.
So both of these things, the full rich problem and the last problem,
these both sound like things that should be like recalled notices.
Well, that's a great point.
But realistically, I'm the owner and maintainer of the aircraft.
The aircraft is a home built, you know, basically it's built in your garage.
So there is no recoil procedure.
We do share information on a list on the internet about what's going on.
But sometimes it, and I don't mean to be throwing the experimental market under the bus.
But the difference between something like an experimental, you know,
there's good and bad sides and a conventional aircraft, like a system 150, 152, 172,
is that they've tested the heck out of them.
Like a system 172 is more than 50 years old.
So they know everything about that.
What happens when hot, wow, how and why?
Why can't I talk this morning?
And the experimental market, because the way I built my canard on my airplane,
maybe different from every other canard ever built,
there's no way to exactly tell.
Like the GU canard that stock on my airplane is a laminar flow airfoil.
And if you get it wet, it loses lift.
Some actually experience more lift when you get it wet.
But typically, when you get it wet, it loses lift.
In fact, if I put more paint on my canard and a certain spot, it would lose lift.
So I have some vortex generator tape on the canard to alleviate the problem to a high degree.
But there are unique, each plane is unique.
Yeah, I get it.
That's always the joke I left.
I could leave the key in the airplane.
Nobody's going to steal it because nobody knows how to fly it.
Because of all the controls and how things are all custom done.
It's not incredibly unique.
Yeah, you're not going to know everything in the plane.
You're not going to be comfortable with it.
It's not like I could jump in any SESTA 152, SESTA 172, and fly it.
Well, even after your 2.5 crashes, I'd still fly with you.
And if you get up to my neck of the woods, I'll buy a tank of gas and we'll go up.
Okay, were you located?
Oh, I'm up the new Hampshire.
Oh, okay.
D-A-W.
Oh, cool.
Yeah, D-A-W is my local runway.
My most local runway.
There's a couple, but that's the most local.
Yeah, so actually, I'm working for the...
Let's see, I don't know if I want to name the current client,
but I'm working for a client in Albany, New York.
And I'm able to fly there.
I've only done that one so far.
Cool.
So most of the time, they let me work remote, and then they want me on site.
So if the weather's good, I'll fly up, because it's a three hour round trip in a SESTA.
And if I drive, it's...
In the morning, it can be four hours there, and typically if you're at night,
it's about three hours back.
But it can be almost an eight hour round trip.
If you figure gas, tolls, stay in over at a hotel if I do that.
And not getting, you know, like four hours of sidewalk in an evening.
It's actually cheaper for me to rent a plane and fly.
You said it was three hours round trip with plane?
Three hours each way.
Three hours round trip.
That's what I thought, okay.
Now, here's the dumb thing about flying.
So, if the wind is constant, it will always be the same amount of time.
And what that means is...
Correct.
It was two hours on the way up, because I had a headwind, but it was an hour.
But if it's all the way back.
Right, right.
But if it's constant, it doesn't matter.
It's the same as having none, or a hundred miles an hour.
Well, I guess if you couldn't fly against it, you'd have a problem.
But...
Well, yeah, being that assessment does about a hundred miles an hour,
I'd be just staying over the ground.
Yeah.
So, yeah, there are diminishing returns.
Okay.
Go ahead, Marcus.
I guess you're going in a straight line, though.
So, you're not...
You're not like you're going out the whole thing.
Just one straight line the whole way.
Pretty much.
Sort of.
Yeah, on a short enough distance, it's a straight line.
If you go along, it starts to curve.
Yeah, see, sometimes...
Oh, yeah, but that's actually true.
Because that's something you always...
Like, if you flew from New York to Wisconsin,
you're flying an arc, actually.
And that's the shortest distance.
And that's not going to make a lot of sense to many people.
So, my question...
Well, because I raised you to looking at flat maps
that are corrected for two dimensions.
But if you look at it on a globe and do it with a piece of string,
you'll see it...
Right, it's in the arc.
It is the straight line.
So, that's correct.
Yeah.
Is your plane in fly-up?
Is your plane out of commission?
Well, I haven't put it all together since the last accident.
And because I've been traveling around,
I do have a two-year contract in New York.
And I'm hoping to get hangar space
and get my plane trucked to Long Island
and put it back together again.
So, once I feel comfortable with everything
and find a location to keep the plane,
I'm going to bring it back and start working on it.
Isn't aircraft fuel really expensive?
I mean, I fled with three pilots
when they were training to fly.
And with the one I actually mentioned before,
and another one was English fly.
And they used to spend extra money
on aircraft fuel and stuff.
I was really expensive
for them to actually go up in the air
and actually fly a plane.
I lost something on that.
I didn't really care what you said.
Does the Thio DF-Z really expensive?
Or has it gone down the bus?
I can look it up.
I think on Long Island, it's 675 gallon.
Holy smokes, isn't it just unleaded?
It's really like a super clean fuel.
And in Avgas,
and you know, there's two types of fuel typically.
There's jet A and Avgas.
And it's what's called a 100-blowlet.
And the joke about that
is it has more lead in it
than when we had let it gas in the US here.
So...
Hold on Rich.
We're about to ring in the New Year's.
Where does it sound, Jason?
Basically in Japan.
Tokyo, Seoul, Pyongyang, and Dili.
Happy New Year folks.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
It's in Australia.
Western Australia.
15 minutes.
And it's probably a good time also to mention that
if you weren't listening earlier,
we talked about this, but we can bring it up again
at least quickly.
Is the fundraiser for
the Accessible Computing Foundation.
Are buddy John at the NATO?
Who was he here?
He has an Indiegogo campaign going on,
which will be in our show notes,
and they've got about two weeks to actually try to finish raising
a whole lot of money,
and they really need to get a lot more going.
Yeah, at least we'll get that much out there.
I had a question about that,
so I was hoping he'd show up and stay.
So one of the things I want to help Jonathan out,
is the video tape taking him flying,
and teaching him how to fly.
Yeah.
Because...
I'll drive him to the airport because I live close enough to him
that that's worth a plane ride.
Well, that might be as good as some taking video.
I'll hold the camera.
So when you're flying,
what you do is,
if you're...
I would have to help him out,
keep him straight down the runway on the take-off.
And all you do is keep back pressure on the yoke
and the plane lift off.
And you can actually hear the airspeed.
So if you're in level flight,
you can hear the airspeed increase,
you can hear the engine RPMs increase
if you're descending,
and you can hear them decrease if you're ascending.
So I think I can teach Jonathan
to maintain level altitude.
And I want to do, you know,
and put it out there on the campaign.
Nah, that guy's got a tinny or he couldn't hear shit.
By the way, I wanted to welcome Kevin Wischer
into the chat.
Hey, Kevin, he's our hero today.
Kevin, can you hear us?
Good morning, everyone.
Speak from beyond the gritty.
Good morning.
I'd just like to take the opportunity
to thank Kevin for all the fantastic work that we did.
Getting everybody together,
getting this whole thing together.
A lot of work done on the background.
Did and has done.
And continues to do.
Yeah, Kevin was with us the first year
and I don't think he ever spoke on air
to help when people do audio setup
in the background and the lounge on our first year.
Andy, you'll need to do this first stage of your episode
during this year, which kind of was a bit of a surprise
to all of us.
And a very interesting episode as well as a natural fact
and sounds like a series with,
oops, this loopy hookball on the second.
Kevin, who did you do that episode with?
I'm sorry, what was the question again?
Your episode on HPR,
how I got into Linux.
He did it with.
Honky Magoo.
That's the name.
No way I can remember that.
We did a part two and then just last Saturday night,
we recorded a session on devian app sources,
the list, how to configure and pan apps
and stuff like that.
Fantastic. Looking forward to that.
And I just added the TLLTS.
Aux-stream server to our mirror list.
So I'm sorry, what were we talking about before I interrupted everybody
and got Rich's fuse lit?
That's what we're talking about app guests.
I met before you came in the room.
I think we had just kind of finished up that whole,
Yassie versus Google type or Duck Duck, you know,
search engine thing and I think, you know, honestly,
let's just put that aside and come back to it in a couple of hours.
Sure.
I had some questions about the Indiegogo campaign.
Go ahead and see if we can deal with that.
Okay, the small amount of background is that my wife and I make quite a bit of money
and we really hate getting put in these really high tax brackets.
I don't know if donations to the ACF, which I know is a nonprofit.
But if they're done through Indiegogo, if the account is being made
to a nonprofit 501c3 for tax purposes.
Wow, that's a great question.
I mean, it is a 501c3, but yeah, if you do it through the Indiegate,
why wouldn't it be, right?
Because the money goes to the same place.
Well, I guess the question is, does Indiegogo brokering it nullify that?
Oh, sorry. I mean, that is a good question.
That's why I was hoping Jonathan was here.
He didn't say anything and he left.
He probably had something to do, but, you know,
this kind of end-of-year giving, I mean, as far as I'm concerned,
I've got another 14 hours to figure that out to answer that question.
I love all that random end-of-year giving when you're on the receiving end.
It looks fun to get all this random stuff.
I think you have another 10 days, don't you?
I might. I don't know.
But I want to do it before the end of the year,
because that's how it affects the taxes.
It might be that I have longer, but I just, you know,
let's just make it unambiguous.
Yeah.
This is 2013.
I don't know if you're contributing to, like, a 401k.
You know, any kind of retirement plan you have until April 15th.
Yeah, I may do that too, but, you know, as far as I'm concerned,
let's do some good here with the campaigns.
That's very cool.
Yeah, the other thing I want to know is,
when the immediate goblin campaign was going around,
they did that through the FSF and that was deductible,
which was very nice.
And I know that Jonathan has done stuff through the FSF before,
so I want to know if Indiegogo is a broker,
changes anything or not.
Yeah, it's a good question.
I'd like to know.
I suspect that it doesn't change anything,
but it would be nice to hear a definite answer.
Emails, son.
Yeah, I've been trying to raise him with semaphore,
and he just, he seems to be ignoring me.
I suppose the only problem with Indiegogo is that it gets like a reward out of it, right?
So they can't just always let Indiegogo stuff go through,
and have to be like a per case thing.
Well, usually you've got to recede,
and then it said, you know, we sent you this gift.
This gift is valued.
I think in the case of media goblin,
the T-shirt and postcard were like $18.
When I did the give one get one,
I deducted only the 200 that was going to the kid.
I couldn't take the 200 for the laptop they sent me.
When they give you a gift,
they usually put that value in the receipt if they're worth or so.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, I don't do much to them, so I don't know.
Something else would be nice to know
as if there's other ways to donate directly to Jonathan's foundation
instead of using the crowdsourcing.
I'm not a big fan of crowdsourcing.
Well, that's what I may end up doing.
Yeah, just go to the ACF.co,
and you'll see a location there to donate,
and you can actually donate the coins.
Ken was trying to say goodnight so he can get some sleep
and hopefully come back.
So, Ken, have a good night.
Thank you so much for everything you do around here.
No, it's only 4 o'clock in the afternoon here.
It's just saying, I must be tired
because I was seriously going,
but Jonathan, can't see.
So how is he going to need 7 or 4?
Oh, I'm going to smack you.
Alrighty.
But I do need to go lie down for long.
So are you sticking around or lying down?
Make up your mind, man.
I've got a mattress here,
and that's why there's a delay sometimes when I'm talking.
All right, then.
I thought you were going to bet.
I'm sorry, I take it all back.
I'm actually preparing the stuff for the community to use
later on today.
How's the flow?
Rich, have you,
do you have a link to a picture of your type of urban,
a link to your...
I've got a link to my actual airplane.
Hold on.
It's PayPal.
You can use PayPal as a little direct to your account.
That's what I do.
Yeah, but I think I put so much through them.
They really want me to make a log in.
I don't know.
I'll give it a shot.
I just hate PayPal after that whole regretsy debacle years ago.
Yeah, PayPal fucking sucks.
Yeah, I didn't know he took Bitcoin.
I don't know if you maybe give him some Bitcoin at some point.
I've got a question.
Actually, what is that?
How do you guys know we do the schedule with the 20 hour thing?
Do you guys stay on the whole type?
We just wing it.
Okay.
I think it's going to be your 4 o'clock in the morning, I'm pretty.
Yeah.
Yeah, somebody...
Yeah, somebody will hand off the recording to somebody else
and we'll work it out and post.
So I'm not told about you guys doing this about 12 months ago, I think.
One of you guys told me about it.
I think you and I discussed it one time a long time ago.
Did you have to be here for years?
I think I was in like January.
Okay.
Yeah, that sounds about right.
Three minutes.
Well, and I will be here the whole time and even if I go away,
I'll leave my recordings running.
That's what I will be on.
If my wife is home, I might not be able to speak for a few hours.
I think she's going to have to wait today to check some books or something.
It's actually her day off because she's here and she's not.
Yeah, and at some point, I have to resync my recording with you guys
because I was out of the room the last time you stopped and restarted, I think.
We'll be restarting in about 45 minutes.
All right, cool.
So I had some playing there, Rich.
Thanks.
Kind of odd.
Well, right now that shot is how you park the plane.
You retract the nose gear and it just hits on the nose.
The propeller is at the back.
Yeah.
Well, when you think about a conventional airplane like a system 152 or 172,
the entire tail cone section does nothing but hold the horizontal stab
and the vertical stab on the plane.
It just adds weight and drag.
It doesn't do anything.
If you eliminate those parts, the plane is more dynamic and more efficient.
So that plane with 150 horsepower engine,
most sets of 172s have a 200 horsepower, 180 horsepower engine.
All fly typically twice as fast as they do and burn less fuel
than they do going half my speed.
Wow.
What's your cruising speed in that?
About 150 knots.
Lower altitude, I can get, you know, lower altitude cold
and, you know, everything just working right.
I can get, let's see, I think it was about 175 knots.
Is that your top speed or is that like your, is there a most efficient speed?
Oh, yeah.
And there's a way to calculate that, but I've never done that.
Because one, the airplane is so efficient and...
You need a Raspberry Pi on the dash to tell you when you're there.
Well, there, I've read articles on it and forgot about it already.
Because here's the thing.
First off, the plane is so efficient.
Like if I go to 11,000 feet, I can cruise at 150 knots over the ground.
At about seven gallons an hour.
Whereas a Cessna 172 would be, heck, a lot of time to get to 11,000 feet.
And once it got to 11,000 feet, it wouldn't be able to develop that kind of speed.
And it'd be burning, you know, probably 12 pluss or gallons an hour just to keep that up.
Got it.
So the only thing about airplanes is drag increases with the square of your speed.
So that last five knots cost you probably more than the prior 20 knots as far as fuel burn.
Right.
Because the plane's so efficient, I really don't care.
And that becomes noticeable around 65, right?
Where your drag is noticeable.
We need to cut in here.
We have to greetings to Western Australia, Australia, Yucla, and happy New Year, guys.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
I'd have realized there are people 15 minute offset.
Yeah.
Time is a weird thing.
This was in 45 minutes since Beijing Hong Kong.
That's pretty cool.
So Rich, your plane is the French Canadian one?
French Canadian.
What are you talking about?
You said your plane looked like one of the ones in planes.
Oh, yeah.
I've actually seen the movie, but it's the one with the prop on the back.
I can tell you.
Somebody else must have said it then, but yeah, there were two pusher planes.
One had two props.
One had one.
I was the one who said it, and I only only saw the movie while it was on.
The volume was all the way down.
I didn't tell you which character it was most like, but it's the one with one prop,
and not the one that had two semi-vertical tail fins.
You know what I like to tell you, Rich, you're probably married on picking on, I take it.
The three-flat people that make soy sauce delivered a flat with them.
They're about 19, 20% of this is a while ago.
There was two of them.
The best time they'd ask you out and they'd take the best state they ever had
was when they took them up into the plane.
They guarantee you every time.
They're annoying to look at what they'll tell you.
You know, I just had a thought.
It seems like mumble is starting to work pretty respectively on the Android phone.
Rich, next year you've got to be in the air when you call in.
Well, actually, that actually segues to a good question.
I was going to ask because of the FAA saying that they might lift the restrictions on using devices on planes.
What's your take on that, Flang Rich?
Well, all right.
So here's a couple of things about cell phones and airplanes.
Like if you're flying along Long Island, there's so many cell sites.
And the cell sites cover such a small area because there's so many of them.
That you might be able to get a text message out.
You might be able to get the phone to ring, but you're not going to be able to talk on the phone.
Now, if you're over the middle of the country and you're flying, you know, low altitude, like 3,000 feet,
you could get a 10, 15 minute conversation.
And mind you, cells, cells weren't designed for you going 200 miles an hour.
But you can't get...
We just want you to circle a tower, Rich.
We don't need you to fly over anything.
In Germany, there's a classic story of barracks and engineers having to rent porches.
To go down the Autobahn in Germany because when they rolled out 3G,
the cause were dropping.
So they had to go up and down the motorways, driving as fast as they possibly could
to make sure that the cells would do data exchange fast enough.
That's a job I would take any day of the week.
That's one of the best traby stories ever.
I love that story.
That's great.
I love that job.
So, sorry, go on.
You can make calls from the airplane.
And it's funny.
I heard somebody, where was this?
It might have been on Twitter.
The guy said, well, he's been making calls for years on planes.
Well, you get a data connection, use Google Voice, and you can make a call.
But there's so many annoying people on an airplane.
You got a little kid kicking the seat behind you, and baby's crying,
and everything else going on.
It's pretty fricking tough.
100% of them are problematic if you're in your own plane, though, aren't they?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
We did a short flight.
It's not even an hour and a half.
So my daughter started complaining about the headphones.
We're just coming in for a landing.
And in the back of my plane, you can't access that.
It's not like you can reach back and help her out.
So she was five years old.
She started crying about the earphones.
Pretty much, I just put it on pilot isolation, the intercom, so I didn't hear it.
There you go.
There was one flight back from Florida.
We're going to Florida, New York, and somewhere over Virginia,
she just started getting diarrhea of the mouth and just kept battling on and on and on.
It was cute. It was really cute.
Count your blessings.
I got work to do in the cockpit.
And I had to put her on, you know, put the intercom on pilot isolation,
because it's tough to make it all the calls out.
Count your blessings that it was of the mouth, because those cockpits I hear,
you can't really help out of them so easy.
Oh, jeez, yeah, that could be real bad.
But, yeah, the call's on a plane.
I don't know.
There's so many annoying people.
Probably the most annoying thing is you get kids with handheld game systems without your phones.
It's like, are you freaking kidding?
I don't let my daughter ride the back seat of the car with a game system without your phones.
We just want you to connect with data, hook up mumble on your Android phone,
and get onto the New Year's Eve chat, and wish everyone a New Year's Eve.
Like, circle in a cell tower or something.
Circle of, yeah, I might be in central Florida, so I'll rent a plane down here in the orbit around a cell tower.
You don't have to do it for long, just long enough to get into the record books.
Right.
Right.
Well, see, here's one of my thoughts or one of my questions.
And this is a short term thing, but I'm starting to wonder if some of the navigation systems
that might start switching over to tablets and that on planes as they introduce newer models and that,
because if you can actually start using these devices and they're determining that they're safe,
then what's the stop you running your GPS through a tablet?
Well, yeah.
There's already a large number of products out there, and they're for reference only.
They're not for primary navigation.
So there's all sorts of things like, hey, what do I have to be legal?
And what do I have to make things easy for me?
So you guys know Mark Spencer, right?
I do not know.
I don't.
Okay.
So Mark Spencer, he wrote, oh, why am I blanking on it, asterisk.
And Mark wrote asterisk, he wrote the original communications for Pigeon, and what was the firewall,
so if there was something else.
But Mark has a company in Huntsville, Alabama.
He's got 150 employees now, and he has an eclipse jet.
He's also writing software for Android tablets and phones that allows you to do charting on it.
So you can get a GPS device like the dual, it receives Boss GPS, which is the higher accuracy,
and it receives ADSB, which gives you weather and traffic data in the cockpit.
So I just, one of my Christmas presents was a dual, and I have an older tablet to Shiba Thrive,
and I got it because it was 10 inch, and I had a GPS in it.
But the GPS doesn't update quick enough for when you're flying, it's fine if you're driving.
The cool thing about what Mark has, for five bucks a month, that's the subscription, the software's free.
If you want geo-referenced approach plates, it's like, I don't know, was it 75 a year?
It's under a hundred bucks a year, which is a fantastic bargain for everything.
So if I was going to fly from New York to Florida, and I needed all of the VFR and IFR
that's visual flight roles and instrument flight roles charts with approach plates,
it would be like three or four phone books worth of paperwork I'd have to carry with me.
So there's weight, but that's not the big factor. The big factor is having it accessible.
So I had an issue where I was going from Florida to New York, and I could see, at that time,
I had XM weather data in the cockpit, and I could see my destination airport was going to be
below my personal minimums for an instrument approach.
Now in my plane, or let me start with a set snuff, the legal minimums are 200 feet AGL,
which means 200 feet above the ground level, it has to be clear.
In my plane, I like a thousand feet AGL because my plane's more agile, or as my instructor says, less stable.
And it's easy to get off course quickly.
So I want to make sure I have a lot of, you know, visual capability to see the runway before I land.
So I decided to turn around and go back to an airport in Delaware that I saw that was clear.
Well, the problem with that is every airport has nearly three names to it.
So I slip MacArthur Airport is called Blong Island Airport, I slip airport, or MacArthur Airport.
Now you have to alphabetically search through a book to figure out what approach you're going to be flying and pull it out.
Whereas on a tablet, you tap on the airport, it brings up a dialogue.
You click on approaches, you select the approach you want, and it displays it.
And if you got the georeference to approach plates, it shows where you are on that approach plate, which is freaking awesome.
And it makes the pilot workload unbelievably low.
Now that doesn't, to be legal, you have to have paper copies in the plane.
But it doesn't mean I have to have a paper copy of every approach in the country.
I really only need to have paper approaches for the ones that I plan on doing, which I do carry with me.
But the ability if something, you know, the weather goes to crap where you're going to your destination is and your secondary airport that you're required to have when you file instrument is also gone to crap.
You can do an approach at another airport at the click of a button.
That sounds good. Let me, let me ask you a tech question.
What, what are the concerns with bringing a computer or computerized device onto a plane in regards to, I don't know what it's called, but when basically, you know, stray cosmic rays, whatever, hit your RAM and flip a bit.
You know, there's like RAM that has devices built into it to account for that, but you're not going to find that in a tablet, right?
Or are they built in aviation grade tablets anywhere?
Wow, that's a great question. You know what? I do, I'm not the person that that's going to be able to give you good answer on that.
I'm assuming consumer grade tablets are just plain generic and Garmin is producing a couple of tablet like GPS and maybe they have that built in there. And maybe that's why they're, you know, eight times as much as, you know, an iPad.
I don't know. I don't know. I'm sorry for interrupting us here. You probably might put some tape, but sometimes I do, I hit one, selling it back to you.
Yeah, but that just turns off all your radios. It doesn't actually change the way the thing functions. I'm wondering if even our traditional server grade, you see memory, even enough.
How much radiation is actually supposed to? And you know, what are the probability domains for each of the bit errors simultaneously?
Because regular ECC is single bit correction, double bit detection. The question is, is that even enough? I mean, that's enough for cosmic rays to vary in frequent and ever really grouped together. It's almost always sporadic and single bit errors at a time.
And so you very, very, very rarely ever even get a double bit error. I wonder how common that would be in a plane. And if maybe even triple the errors are commonality.
So I know a guy that could answer that question. He actually developed his own ephys system. He used to work on satellites. He was a satellite engineer.
And he was, uh, Bert Ritann called him in for working on their ephys system on spaceship one. So he was riding around in the back of white night doing tests on that.
Greg actually had a plane identical to mine. And he had a company in Covington, Tennessee put a jet engine on the back of it and made a, what they call the cozy jet.
Greg sold the plane. He had some issues with the business and he is now doing kind of a complex hydroponics setup.
And hasn't done much tech work since that I know.
Yeah, those complex hydroponics will take it right out of you, won't they?
Well, apparently it's like the stealth hydroponics setup with grow lights, etc. So they, they don't trigger any alerts from anybody.
Except the power company. All these people always forget that they're, they run a file of the power company.
Well, apparently what he's working on or is developed is a system that soft starts the light. So you don't see a spike, which apparently is what the power companies are alerted to on.
I'm assuming smart meters.
Well, that in the overall electrical bill because people who run hydroponics and, and grow houses and stuff, you have all the lights to contend with, even though they're, they're low wattage.
There's still a lot of them, but most of them almost as important as the lights is the.
What do you call it the CO2 production because the plants are run out of CO2.
So, and that takes some fuel and some electricity to make happen.
Oh, is it that power though that we normally, they've been, I mean, I know a lot of power companies here that way I have through four, but they can only tell us someone's doing something wrong.
I don't think we want to grind plants because the powerble shoots up like that 600 percent.
That's, that's what I'm saying.
That's what he's talking about.
The bill itself shoots up a rich is saying that you can tell when it happens because the lights turn on and there's a spike.
Like a momentary spike as well, which I, which also sounds reasonable.
Guys, can I just cut him to say I need to go spend some time with the family, so I'll be back for the community.
All right, of course.
If you're smart, you do a staggered, you do a staggered startup of your light, sort of like your hard disks and your computer.
So you don't like get that spike, sort of just gradually rises up because it's the same sort of idea behind why there's staggered spin up of hard disks.
So you don't turn them all on, have them peak while they're trying to get up to speed and then have the power consumption go back down.
That way your power is like and handle it.
You will be missed, Ken, we await your return.
Yeah, I was going to ask how do you soft start a fluorescent light because those things, you know, you're having a chance to start them where you don't.
Right.
But staggering them makes, makes a lot of sense.
You could probably just time it, have some timers if you're really, really insufficient, if you're not sophisticated at all.
Or you could be sort of like measuring the power draw in some really, really arcane way.
I didn't think they ever let the lights go dim in a girl house.
I thought they had 24 hour lighting, but I actually don't know any.
I don't know because I don't know if the plants necessarily need it so you're saving yourself money.
Because I mean there's always dark cycles during a normal day, plants are accustomed to that.
So if you can save yourself eight hours of power, it's worth it.
I guess I really have no idea.
I'm talking about you.
Probably more than eight, though.
It's probably more like what, 10 to 12 a day, you can probably get away with not having the lights on.
So that's saving you, you know, almost half your power bill.
I know it's huge.
I know that with trees, the light cycle, the dark time and light time is fairly important because that's how a tree knows what season it is and when to,
right and when to shed leaves, but no idea about, about weed.
Yeah, I don't know about riches, kind of favorite plants.
I have no idea.
Oh gosh, I'm so straight.
It's ridiculous.
Yeah, me too.
Hey, Popeys here.
Welcome.
I'm one of them and I hope it's okay.
Hello.
What's up, man?
Yeah, just chilling at the end of the year, you know, relaxing.
I don't think it's four and a half hours.
So I thought it's four, three in the morning.
Happy New Year, Popeys.
Happy New Year to you guys too.
Talking about plants, I believe they're not before.
I did not bring up the subject.
It was a neat transition because we started with planes and then went to dope.
So we're still talking about being high.
Yep, that's a great tie together right there.
Well, that was quite ingenious on how you got the lighting just right.
And maybe you needed a program and to actually program the lighting.
So it would be just right.
I thought that was quite ingenious.
And there is an HPR on synchronizing your Christmas lights.
I bet you could easily adapt it if you're that in need of a lighting system.
There you go.
We get it all tied together at the end of the year.
We can't we can't carry anything over in the new year.
You know, William from the GP of broadcasting server, Popeys.
Sorry.
Yeah, you must be remember William from the GP of broadcasting server.
He's a near private.
You might carry on.
William wicks at Google.
So I've had a read at Google so it's a bunch of his team now.
Oh, come on.
You can't blame Popeye for your problems with the bun too.
Like a bun too.
I just don't like to be in my mind.
A bun to his.
What?
That's the same thing.
Thank you, William, for that timely goodbye.
That echoed my own thought.
Um, I'm actually on one of the windows like one and I'm dope boosting with the on me tree.
Get out.
What is it with all the Australians and like running windows?
Like, man, you guys rip on Peter 64.
I am not an Australian.
I'm a little.
We're American.
It's close enough Marcus.
Wait a minute, American.
I'm going to be honest.
I have relatives.
I have a cousin that moved to New Zealand and married a Kiwi and, you know, brought his Kiwi kids home for Christmas.
And I could not tell the difference between his wives and his kids accent and like Peter 64's accent.
They sound the exact same to me.
No, if you got me in person, I'm married for you can tell the difference.
Um, it's actually quite big difference.
He did probably do.
Probably only because of the contrast.
I couldn't, I couldn't, you know, in isolation, I cannot tell them apart.
But we kind of like saying, you know, Southern Alabama, Northern Florida, sound different.
Wow.
I have trouble with Canadians and Americans sometimes.
Like, I can't tell the difference.
All you've got to do is get them to say out about and you're done.
Okay.
We sell poor sales.
We sell sales.
I use in New Zealand to say, talk, you can tell the difference.
What sets?
No, Canadians say a.
Now you can get that.
My Boston uncle says that all the friggin time.
Not as much as Canadians though, but it's there.
Like the phones.
So you say I like the phones does.
Or if you sit, no, no, that's a.
But if you say like pushing the bar stool, then they, they left.
That's how you know they're Canadian.
I can tell Canadians from Americans, because every time I see them, they're trying to figure out how to use a crosswalk.
So you podcast.
Your kind of Jono's podcast was cool.
I can't remember what's called there.
It's a sad voltage.
Yeah, you've been.
No, no.
Are you being a guest?
You've been a guest on it.
No, no, I have nothing to do with it.
I think I've put you good.
Sorry.
What is on the Ubuntu UK podcast among the people on the everything?
No, yeah, you PC is the main one.
You're having a break.
And if I'm not mistaken, Puppy, you're a founding member of that podcast, right?
Yeah.
So we talked about it in the, in the local team for a while.
And I've been wanting to do one for a while.
And I kind of, it had been talked about on the mailing list and on the IRC channel for ages.
And nobody ever actually just stepped up and did it.
So I pinged a few people and said, hey, do you want to be on it?
Do you want to do it?
And they said, yeah, and then we got together and we bought some equipment separately.
We each bought a microphone and we each bought Tony bought a mixer and we bought a few other bits and knobs.
And then just started it.
And that was six years ago.
Oh, right on.
Is there any connection?
Another one that I had heard of, but I've never heard, but was there any connection between you guys and the hash log radio folks?
That was a podcast, wasn't it?
So hash log radio was supposedly a meta podcast.
It was a podcast about a podcast.
So there's log radio and hash log radio was a podcast about log radio.
Right.
And no, I didn't have anything to do with hash log radio.
But the same people who hang around in our IRC channel are the people who did that.
That put cast here.
Oh, so they have someone to take the piss out of now?
Yeah, we all know each other quite well.
It's funny, right?
When you look at the hash, the log radio IRC channel, which still exists even though log radio stopped like five years ago,
however long ago it was the log radio stopped.
It's still an IRC channel.
People still pop in there and say hi to each other.
And then as soon as Jono and Axe started bad voltage.
There was a bad voltage IRC channel and exactly all the same people who in log radio jumped into the bad voltage channel.
And now they're in two channels, one for a podcast that exists, and one for a podcast that doesn't exist anymore.
Yeah, we get the same problem on some of our podcasts that we do on Saturday nights and people jump from one room and join in both rooms.
And not post their comments in the right room and happens to mumble all the time.
Well, I browned Jono's around the podcast here, doesn't he?
I noticed he's been on quite a few and he has his own one.
Haven't seen him in a while though.
He was around here a couple of weeks ago.
I quite like browning, it's actually quite good to talk to people sometimes.
Yeah, I actually get confused about what podcast you guys actually belong to because you all seem to be jumping around all the time.
And here.
Well, everybody's really friendly.
This podcast actually James from the mint cast was the one that actually invited me in here.
When a while ago, actually a couple of years ago, the deaf spot, I feel like I don't know what's happened with him.
Yeah, there's a lot of podcasts that come and go over the years.
So, Poppy, I get a question for you.
Do you ever experiment around with other distros or are you like strictly an Ubuntu guy?
So, I have Ubuntu on basically everything.
The only exception to that is on really old, really slow machine I put crunch bang on it.
But actually, I don't use that machine very often.
It's all in a drawer and it has been in a drawer for probably a year and hasn't actually been used.
So, really, I only use Ubuntu.
Every so often when a new distro comes out like when the new version of mint comes out or the new version of elementary or something like that,
I'll download the ISO and spark it up in a VM and I'll probably play with it for 10 minutes no more.
I won't actually use it as a daily machine.
Because I've got no motivation to do that.
If someone's asking me what distros should I use, then my default position is always going to be Ubuntu, of course.
If they're using a low power machine that's got very low memory or very low CPU speed or something,
then I'd probably say Ubuntu or crunch bang.
I can't see for me where these other distros fit in.
I can see where they fit in for expert Linux users who like the known to interface or people who like the Mac UI.
But I can't see where they fit for the people who I'm helping.
Do you have a lot to do with Ubuntu or is Ubuntu quite separate?
So, I know there's European in that way.
Ubuntu, the XDE variant.
No, it's a part of Ubuntu, but they're just saying to be quite separate.
So, all of the flavours that's Ubuntu, Mintbuntu, Ubuntu Studio and Ubuntu, there's another one.
I always forget one.
All of those flavours are built from packages that are in the archive.
And that's what sets them apart from derivatives like Mint and Elementary.
So, Mint and Elementary are built on packages that come from the Ubuntu archive,
but then they add additional stuff that isn't in the archive.
Whereas, all of the flavours are all built only from stuff that's in the Ubuntu archive.
And that's a big difference.
What it means is we do all work closely together.
So, there are people from Ubuntu on the Ubuntu release team,
and whenever there's ISO testing to be done,
you know, the Ubuntu people are contacted,
there's Ubuntu people are contacted and so on and so on.
So, there is a lot of close work between them.
They're separate to some degree because their desktop is different.
So, they don't use a lot of the same components as the Ubuntu people.
So, you know, we use Unity and some GTK and Coup stuff,
and they use completely different stuff on Ubuntu.
So, yeah, there's separation in that, you know,
they're using completely different components,
but it all comes together in the release,
because they're all using the same archive.
And Baju.
Baju only teams to focus on seeing the desktops,
because some of the desktops belong to other people or other people.
They have those other desktops.
I don't understand the question.
Some of them are made to be mintbikes.
So, the Ubuntu teams have Unity, Alex.
I'm not sure how they have the desktops,
actually, for them to be Ubuntu.
Mark, it's, I think what he's saying is that the Ubuntu flavors
all use the one standard set of Ubuntu repositories.
And once you start getting into Mint and some of the other ones,
they have their own repositories,
and they have their own software that they're adding to it,
that would not be available in Ubuntu.
Yeah, that's what I mean.
Baju would be a cinnamon desktops
we're about to be coming out in the future.
So, there's no reason why, you know,
cinnamon couldn't be put in the Ubuntu archive.
I mean, probably already is.
I don't know.
Or Marta, or whatever you call it,
and all the others.
There's no reason why they couldn't be added into the Ubuntu archive.
Or preferably the Debian archive,
and then we'd get the benefit,
and so would Debian and all the Debian derivatives.
There's nothing stopping that happening,
as far as I'm aware,
it's just, you know, a matter of time someone is actually doing.
I'm pretty sure Marta is already in there.
It would just be cinnamon.
Does anybody know?
Well, I'm asking it now,
because Popi, you're here, you might know,
but maybe somebody else does too.
Does anybody know what happened
with the Metabuntu repositories
that had all the codecs and everything?
Was that shut down in a vicious and nasty way,
or did those guys just give up point?
Does anybody know?
I don't really know.
I mean, to be honest,
I haven't used Metabuntu for years,
and I haven't needed to.
So I've kind of personally questioned
why there actually needs to exist anymore,
not why it exists,
but I know why it's historically existed,
but I don't know why it still needs to exist.
What does it contain that the archive doesn't contain?
I'm not sure what the archive does or doesn't contain.
I think what people were getting out of the Metabuntu repository
is DVD decoders,
as far as I know,
and there might have been one other thing,
but I think the DVD decoding was the big thing,
can it want to do that on its own?
So there's a script you run,
install DECSS or something.
Isn't it a shell script somewhere?
It's a bit clunky the way it's done, I think.
But there is a package in the archive that you install,
and it contains a shell script,
and you run that shell script,
and I think that goes off to Metabuntu
and gets whatever the decoding nastiness is
that you have to have for DVDs.
I think that's the way it works.
Yeah, LibDVD CSS, I believe, is the only one.
That's the one, yeah.
And I don't know.
I have no machines with optical drives.
I haven't played a DVD in a year.
Okay, so I don't know.
That was my next question,
is if you're just not using that type of media
or because there's a better or legal
or better way to get those code out?
Well, it's funny,
we've moved from a situation where it's kind of possible
to play a DVD to a situation where people are streaming video,
and it's kind of possible to stream video
in some situations,
but then Netflix and Hulu
and all these others just don't quite,
there's ways of means to work around it,
like the pipeline is the 21st century DVD CSS or whatever.
Yeah, no, that was a really good way of stating that,
that kind of could play DVDs
and now you're kind of constrained.
I wonder...
I wonder if that...
What was that?
There was a source like out of Spain
or something where you could buy a bunch of code access.
Is that still around?
Oh, those guys...
Oh, no, I don't remember.
They're just people.
Fluenza?
Fluenza?
Oh, fluendo, yeah.
Fluenza!
In fluenza?
In fluenza.
What?
Yeah, there's a...
Yeah, fluendo.
Yeah, there's a vaccination for that.
I think I have a feeling we are licensed,
they're codex for a month or two.
I think you still have to pay though in the Ubuntu store, right?
No, there's two sets.
There's a set that's free and the set that's payware,
and you can have either.
See, I don't mind paying for the codex,
just why is it so frickin hard, you know?
Well, I don't know.
I just don't pay for codex.
I don't know.
My point is the same as DVDs.
I just don't...
I haven't had to jump through hoops for years for any of this stuff.
I just don't understand what the problem is these days.
I like what they claim to be a secure experience.
It's interesting that that's a big deal.
If you really want to play a DVD,
why don't you just buy one of those $50 DVDs?
Because then you don't get a screen that's nice.
So a friend of mine said to me,
some years back,
he said,
I said something about a DVD and he went,
oh, you still buy DVDs?
How quaint?
And this was actually before Blue Race.
And I was like, yeah, don't you buy DVDs?
And he said, no, I own about three DVDs.
And I said, what, how am I?
And he said, well, the criteria he uses for buying a DVD is,
will I watch that film more than three times in my lifetime?
If I will, I'll buy it.
If not, I'll rent it.
And because it's just not financially worthwhile to have a DVD
that costs you $20 or $15 or whatever to sit in a cupboard
that you're never going to watch again.
Yes, but there's...
You know, I understand that and I agree with it to a certain degree.
But then you think about all of the media that's out there
and it's probably not true of DVD,
but it certainly is of like VHS.
There are things that exist on VHS that exist nowhere else.
And as far as archival purposes go,
thank goodness for people who hoarded those things.
Sure.
And I can understand that if there were VHS copies
of the moon landing or some seminal moment in life's history.
But really, Toy Story 3, do I need Toy Story 3?
No, I need Toy Story 3 on DVD.
I think somewhere on the planet has a copy of that.
I'll be all right.
Yeah, I agree.
The sort of thing now with the internet age
and having all this storage is that it's no longer necessary
to have and hoard those things anymore on disk
because it exists somewhere on the internet.
And the content creating companies end up just re-releasing it
over and over.
Whereas there's still some old VHS stuff
that you could never ever find.
That's what I will cast TV at Christmas anyway.
So, you know, I've been guilty of sitting there
at like 10 o'clock at night and it'll learn war games
or be on the telly or something.
And I've got war games on DVD and I'm pretty sure
I bought it on VHS as well.
And I'll sit there till midnight watching the film.
But I know it's in the cupboard,
like three feet behind me.
But I'll sit and watch it on TV.
Yeah.
But I'll sit and watch it on TV.
And I'll even watch the adverts.
It's just mental.
I don't know what to do.
All right.
I'll sit through without taking a bathroom break.
So, I remember.
I've stopped watching TV April 2009.
And only when I come to my wife's place is when I see TV.
And I actually, all right, so what was I,
I think it was on Southwest on the flight down.
They give you free dish,
but you have to play it on your own device.
It's like B-Y-O-D.
So you connect to their Wi-Fi.
You can't do anything over the net,
but you can get a few programs.
And they have commercials.
And I'm like, what the frick is this?
And if you're not used to watching commercials,
you're like, this is maddening.
Why would I sit through this crap
when there's nearly zero content
and then they're back to a commercial?
And the commercials are so jarringly bad nowadays.
I don't understand the way that the information they present you,
I don't understand how that would cause somebody
to spend money on a thing.
It makes me not want to buy a thing.
One of my favorite commercials is like a car commercial.
They'll show people like dancing and singing
and what it's like.
They'll even show the car, not even once.
I want to know, hey, it's a 400 horsepower,
510 foot pounds of torque,
it's a V8 engine,
it's a turbo hydromatic 400,
you're with a 10 inch differential,
and 17 inch tires that are whatever wide.
No, they don't cover any of that.
You're like, usually, most people are,
is it a blue car or a gray car?
Yeah.
And what stands as wheels of the engine?
What's status will it buy you?
And that's the thing.
We're very much the own technically oriented market
for stuff like this,
which is not the average TV viewer.
I don't even need to draw on something that passes.
That's why I hate tech now,
because the masses are doing tech,
and then there's no specs in the tech,
because the masses are doing tech.
I brought this up earlier before you guys are here,
with the one commercial I've seen in the past month,
and it's like, does this commercial make me laugh?
Okay, well, then I'll buy the thing.
And the commercial I brought up earlier was the,
it was a Microsoft commercial for,
with the pawn shop, pawn stars, whatever,
and they weren't going to give the woman enough money
for her Android notebook.
You know what I mean?
For her to pawn off her book and go on vacation,
and I just, it was like the worst.
You pay, well, actually, okay.
So some of the Chromebooks were pretty frickin' expensive.
You get a $300, $400 Chromebook,
whereas you can buy a $300, $400 computer
and have to terabyte hard drive on it.
Right, right.
And they're saying that, you know,
the point of the commercial is,
well, if this were a Windows computer,
we'd give you more money for it,
and you'd be able to go on your vacation.
But, you know, like, who cares about the resale value of the thing?
You know, you bought a Chromebook on purpose
because of the cost savings,
and is that really the message that we want to,
like, send to our kids, is that,
hey, if you want to go on vacation,
sell this notebook that you use for making money,
and take your vacation.
It was the most irresponsible and worst commercial I've ever seen.
I think it was like army.gov or whatever,
ran a commercial some years back.
If you need money for the important things in life,
and then they have a kid buying CDs at a music store,
I'm like, are you frickin' kidding me?
Those are the essentials.
I'm thinking food, water, clothes, heat.
All right.
And again, what's a CD?
Well, now, nothing.
Right.
This doesn't mean no kid on Earth knows what a CD is anymore.
But I mean, receipt types.
Just by now, I'm able to wait for the receipt.
I don't know as much things.
Wait a minute, I think it was.
But I do have a gripe that's been kind of growing.
Is a year ago for Christmas, I bought my dad,
I don't know, like a 50-52 inch TV.
But you can see the TV at Costco or wherever you go to buy them.
And it looks good.
And it'll have the specs on the lines of resolution,
and the refresh rate, and whatever.
But it doesn't tell you how fast it'll bring up Netflix or Hulu.
Some of these things, it's like the old joke when you go out to compile.
I click the Enter button to compile and get a cup of coffee.
If I push Netflix, I want it up.
I want it like bang.
As soon as my finger hits the button up,
I don't want to wait 30, 45 seconds for Netflix to come up.
And I'm trying to test that out.
You know, my wife and I looked at a couple of TVs the other day.
And you're sitting there and Netflix didn't come up.
Even on the new quad core, whatever.
They're like, oh, it's the net connection.
Then I tethered off my phone on the TV, and it still didn't come up.
So I want to know specs on, hey, how much RAM, how much CPU,
how fast will Netflix load, will Hulu load?
Because this is all crap.
Yeah.
Unfortunately, with those embedded devices,
it's probably a lot more dependent on the underlying OS.
And then your network configuration, then a lot of the specs in those.
Right, right.
Put the no knowledge salespeople tell you, oh, yeah, we have our, you know,
network going to everything.
So the band was people with no idea what that would even mean anyway.
Right.
For them, it makes sense to hire no knowledge people because they're cheap.
And people are still going to buy things.
And most people who've had no idea what's going on.
How many phone calls have you gotten from different people?
Asking you what the hell g's are?
And do they need them in their phone or their computer?
What's the deal with g's?
I've never had that low of a level of sophistication.
I've lost the thought I was trying to butt in with a while ago.
Oh, you mean 3G, 4G?
Yeah, that's what gc means.
No, no, the thing I was calling me don't know if they're gigabytes or gigabits or generation.
They don't know.
At least we have some type of sophistication.
I read the people coming up to me and wanting to pay 200 bucks for office.
I'm like, I want the help.
And when I, when I say that people are asking me about g's,
I don't mean to demean the people.
They shouldn't have to know.
I just mean that the, the market has intentionally confused everybody.
It seems like.
Yeah, people are dumb.
But people actually don't know what they're buying.
They're just looking at that and going, that looks cool.
The people came up, I had this one woman with a kid,
and she wanted to eye-matte.
It was a winged eye-matte.
Proface came out and she went, those eight came out at the same time.
And she goes, oh, and eye-matte.
Because that's what everyone's getting.
It looks cool.
It's full grey or something here.
She wants a big church thing.
My point is just the opposite.
I don't think people are dumb.
I think they shouldn't have to know.
The products should be more clear about what they are.
If I want to buy a Nexus 7, it should say right on the box.
First generation, Nexus 7.
Second generation, Nexus 7.
I shouldn't have to know, you know, dumb little things.
And neither should the people who call on me for tech support.
There should be something there that helps people to understand.
I mean, you and I may know what the innards are.
If it's got a Snapdragon processor or it's got, you know,
2 gig RAM instead of, you know, 512.
Sure.
But you should be used to get it.
I'm going to put it in here.
It's different from anything else like a car.
I've got a particular car.
I've got no idea what generation car it is.
Okay, let me put it in here for a second.
Let's resync our recordings real quick.
