Episode: 1642
Title: HPR1642: Frist Time at Oggcamp
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1642/hpr1642.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 06:14:11

---

It's Tuesday 18th of November 2014.
This is HPR Episodewing 642 in Idoled First Time at Bug Camp.
And as part of the series on Camp, it is hosted by First Time host Al and is about 14 minutes
long.
Feedback can be sent to Al at signadminandminpodcast.co.uk or by leaving a comment on this episode.
The summary is join Al and Jerry where we discuss our first visit to Bug Camp.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15 that's HPR15.
Get your web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com.
Hi, I'm Al, I'm Jerry.
And we met at Oddcamp.
We decided that we wanted to come and do an episode on HPR to tell people about Oddcamp.
This is my first year at Oddcamp and it was Jerry's first one as well, wasn't it?
It was, yeah, it was really fun, I had a lot of fun, drank a lot of beer, went to a lot
of talks and generally had a really good time, met lots of nice people as well, let's not
forget that bit.
Yeah, it was really good, I don't know where to start really, well I mean start with the
pub on the first night which is where we met already, isn't it?
This is my first kind of open source event I went to and I was a bit nervous about going
because I don't really know that many people in the open source community and I was really
surprised and I got there, I kind of heard a couple of voices that I knew on the pod, on
different podcasts, fab from the next outdoors I heard, yeah and we then kind of met the
people from Linux Luddites.
Yeah, we got to meet our podcasting heroes and they've actually ended up talking to the
Linux, Linux Luddites lot from most of the evening I seem to remember, yeah it was interesting
definitely and I don't know, I don't often get to talk to people about Linux really because
well I talk to people at work about it obviously because I work with a group of Linux admins
but not really that sort of open source free culture side just how to get the blinking
thing working, you know, that's side things, yeah, so that was interesting as well.
I was surprised how everyone was so friendly when we kind of, you didn't want to just
wanted to talk, you started talking to you, they started talking back to, really.
Yeah, yeah, I mean I do a bit of freelance work as I was saying and I go to this
I'll do it, I'll put in a quick plug for the farm in Brighton there sort of group of freelancers
and when a lot of people, especially you know techy people get together and they're all there
for a reason either to sort of tap their wares as a freelancer or just talk about techy stuff
then it turns into a very friendly evening generally and I think that was a really good way
to start the first dog camp, I mean, yeah, yeah, it was good.
Then the next day obviously it was the actual dog camp and then I went to, we didn't know
what to expect kind of, I knew that people had, there was talks and stuff and there was
meant to be like a website that you could go to, wasn't there?
That campfire manager there is, yeah, I did go to it, it did seem to be working for
me but it didn't seem to be working for the majority of people there.
I think someone had, it was something to do with DNS records on the server or something
so yeah, it was down to low tech posted notes on the board and everyone voting for their
talks that way.
I went to my first one was one again with the Stuart, he was about wanting to do a projector
for his mobile phone so you don't have to take it laptop when he went to the kind of talks
and it was really interesting it was like people coming up with ideas of how to solve
this problem.
Yeah, I mean that's how I was sort of open source, ideology I suppose but one of the talks
I wanted, I wish I'd gone to now was the evolution of social coding I think it was called
which it's been, the title's been intriguing me ever since up camp because I've never
been much of a coder but I can see with things like GitHub how that could be social coding
could be a really useful thing, not actually done any sort of social coding if you like
myself, it's something that interests me as I sort of do more and more coding I suppose.
It is a shame that you can't go to all the talks at the same time because I was one about
cacking thermostats for your radiators which I'd really like to go and see if I went
to talk to the guy in the section where they had all the coding machine and then printed
it out, the teletyping machine. Yeah, you sent a tweet to this someone's account and it
prints it out on this ancient teletype, yeah, it's really good. Yeah, so yeah there's loads of
different talks you go, I was really surprised at the diversity of talks, I mean the best one I
went to is one about a guy who was how you can equip stuff in Vi but it was really the encryption
which flawed and the guide showed you how you could how it worked. Yeah, maybe it was wrong,
like I was saying just before we went on air and I'd forgotten all about that too, maybe it's
just the state of the hangover or whatever, when I saw it, I did find it interesting at the time
definitely, you must have a look at it, it's actually doing that. One of the talks that I found
that I found really interesting was a guy had made a hydrogen powered Raspberry Pi
using, well I think it was basically available as a kit but yeah, just an interesting thing to
sort of hack together in your spare time, so using a fuel cell to power a Raspberry Pi rather than
pairing off the grid and I think I don't know, I think this whole sort of hardware hacking,
open source sharing of ideas things could be going to be really useful in the future when we come
to having to do, it might be necessary for people to do this kind of thing for themselves and
if people can be connected and share ideas like that over the internet and come up with ideas
like that, it might lead to a better world for everyone, maybe I don't know. Yeah, I mean,
as I could talk, Popey did a talk on his Ubuntu phone, which is quite interesting, I think that
is one of the most went to talk, there's quite a lot of people crammed and doing one that was
a small room, wasn't it, they're probably the best attended talk of the weekend, the smallest room,
but yeah, it was about the Ubuntu phone, wasn't it, yeah. Things you could listen to, I mean I
I definitely recommend anyone who's thinking about going if there's one to be one next year to
definitely go. Yeah, I'm planning to go next year if there is one, I mean they, I think all they
say is they don't rule it out and I think they, but by the time it gets to about sort of, I don't know,
Easter next year, they kind of got a venue in mind and then they, well, the podcast that we
tend to listen to will kind of advertise it, usually Ubuntu UK, the, well, seem to be deceased
Linux out of us, with sort of advertise it and yeah. Yeah, I mean, I'm definitely thinking if someone
is out there listening to podcasts and it's worried about that I won't know anyone, don't worry,
you've meet other people, everyone was in the same boat at some point, everyone was, you can just
like we did just randomly just talking the pub together. Yeah, well I was like, yeah, I went
there on my own, didn't know anyone and you know, you just get talking to people, don't you,
and here we are, we're still talking. Yeah, so yeah, it's good. Yeah, if you want to catch us,
Jerry actually has come and kind of co-host on the podcast, which I do, which is a kind of
Windows, Linux, system admin podcast, if you want to find out more, just go to www.abranabranpodcast.co.uk.
Yeah, it's been a month or first, I think, my first ever podcast, first ever Rob Camp,
first ever HBR, so yeah, long way to continue. Okay, well, thank you for listening.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does our, we are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday on day through Friday. Today's show,
like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever consider
recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio
was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club. HBR is funded by the
binary revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are proudly sponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share a life, and he does our license.
