Episode: 1821
Title: HPR1821: James Beard's Never-Fail Blender Hollandaise Sauce
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1821/hpr1821.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 09:42:02

---

This is HPR episode 1,821 entitled Games Beards Never Failed
In the Horror Main Source. It is hosted by Frank Mel and is about 7 minutes long.
The summary is, Frank describes how to make perfect Horror Main Source every time.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello, this is Frank Bell. Today I want to talk about James Beards always works,
Never Fails Infallible Recipe Making Hollandaise Sauce in a Blender.
Hollandaise Sauce is a mixture of eggs, butter, a little bit of salt and lemon juice, and hot pepper.
Most closely associated with, in this country, eggs Benedict which is a dish consisting of an
English muffin, which is an American thing. I'm surprised the English haven't
protested it, just as I'm surprised the Danes have not assaulted us for the atrocities
that we call Danish in this country. Canadian Bacon, which is more like little round pieces of ham
than the rashers of bacon that are commonly referred to as bacon, a post dag with Hollandaise
Sauce on top. It's also associated with asparagus, very closely, broccoli, and soufflées.
It's particularly good, say, with a tuna or salmon souffle. But if you do serve tuna souffle
with Hollandaise Sauce, you have just consumed your a lot of eggs for the next three months.
It's not something that I serve often. The ingredients are as, oh, I do want to mention,
in the theory of practice and practice of cooking, James Beard, particularly in discussing this
particular recipe, talks about his view of technology and cooking. He gives three Hollandaise
Sauce recipes. One, the traditional way, which is very, very tricky, involving beating with a whisk
for hours, then the one I'm going to describe with the blender. And finally, one using a food
processor. And he concludes by saying that his view of technology and cooking is quite simple,
that if an advance in technology leads to good results and makes it easier,
there's no reason not to use the technology. Those who cling to traditional ways would still be
cooking with their fried eggs on a stick roasting them on an open fire. That was me talking not him.
By the way, I checked the cookbook this comes from, the theory and practice of cooking,
which he wrote as a textbook for his cooking school is still available. Both used,
mine is a first edition, but it's very, very used, and new. It's arranged as a textbook,
there's a chapter, say, on roasting with sections on various types of roasting and the effects of
different methods of roasting. And then there will be generally two or three recipes to illustrate
whatever principles he has just discussed. It is not a cookbook that's merely a
compendium of recipes. My favorite compendium of recipes is Craig Claibren's New York Times cookbook.
Claibren and Beardwork and Temporaries, both of them sadly, are gone now, but their good food lives on.
So, on to the recipe. The ingredients for the amount I'm going to give, which makes approximately
three-fourths cup, are enough for four servings. That would be about 180 nL in metric, or as follows.
About half a teaspoon of salt, or about two milliliters, I commonly use less.
About a tablespoon of lemon juice, or the juice of one lemon, or that's about 15 milliliters.
Eight tablespoons are about 120 milliliters of butter. That's the standard size of a stick of butter
in the United States. And four egg yolks, which are four egg yolks measuring. The procedure is very
simple. First, you separate the eggs. You separate the yolks from the whites. There is only one
way to do this. And that's with your hand. You take your egg, you hold your one hand over
a saucer, crack the egg, and let the contents, the yolk, and the white fall into your hand,
and allow the white to fall through to the saucer while protecting the integrity of the yolk with
your hand. And if you need to, you can shake your hand just a little bit that encourages the white
to fall through. Then you drop the yolk in another bowl. If you're afraid to touch food,
you probably shouldn't be cooking. You put the egg yolks, the lemon juice, the salt,
and some cayenne pepper. Or if you wish, you can use the vascular sauce or the very best
of all hot sauces, Frank's hot sauce. I used to have a co-worker who, in her college days,
had worked at the restaurant in Buffalo where Buffalo chicken wings were invented. They were
called Buffalo chicken wings because they were invented in Buffalo, New York. And she had a copy
of the recipe. And in that recipe, Frank's hot sauce was called for by name. I can't think of a
higher recommendation myself. So you put all the ingredients in the blender, put the lid on,
and you hit the blender once, on and off, real quick, just enough to break up the egg yolks and
mix everything together. Then you remove the insert in the center of the lid of the blender.
Bring the butter to a boil, rapidly. And just when it starts bubbling, real good. You don't
want it to sit there for any more time than necessary. Just get it to that state where it's bubbling
rapidly in the saucepan. Turn on the blender and pour the butter in a thin stream through the
hole in the top of the blender. And as soon as the sauce has thickened and you will know,
you will see that happen. Turn off the blender and serve the sauce hot. And enjoy.
Thank you very much. And I'll catch you later.
You've been listening to Heka Public Radio at HekaPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Heka Public Radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and is part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is
released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
