Episode: 1066
Title: HPR1066: HPR Community News August 2012
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1066/hpr1066.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 18:16:03

---

Good evening. Welcome to Hacker Public Radio. My name is Becky. My name is Mike. I'm
Ken. And I'm Philip. I went well. And first of all, I'd like to start off by
welcoming in our new halls for this month, CC Music, Dubie and Clevy. So, how
is everybody doing? Time, thank you. Okay, first of all, let's do the show
review. Has everybody listened to all the shows? Most of them, I think. Yeah, not all
most of them. Yeah, pretty much. Well, I've listened to most of the old camp shows
done this month. Okay, cool. Well, 1046 was the HPR community news for July 2012.
And then we had the following day was the second in the soldering series by
Mr. X, which was an audio demonstration of soldering. Now, personally, I didn't
think that this was going to be possible, but an actual fact worked out quite well.
And I don't know if that's because I have done soldering before or if it's
simply because he's very good at explaining as a venue of you listen to that show.
I listened to it and it's actually inspired me to go to maplens and buy a soldering
line. The only thing the concern was that he, well, not concern me. I mean, you need
good tools. So, it's a lot of an investment to buy a good soldering iron that you could
do the core temperature. I suppose. I mean, I wasn't inspired that much. I wasn't
inspired to get myself at entry level soldering line and start looking at
to start looking at it. I've got to say it now where I'm particularly, I'll count
me for all the hardware stuff. I started thinking perhaps I should look at
it as a hardware stuff because I've not really looked at hardware ever.
Yeah. I was actually reading the, well, probably get to it as well, but remind me
about it as if Raspberry Pi, Raspberry Pi magazine. I don't know if any of you read that at all,
that they have, they're running a series in there on hardware hacking and they use a
breadboard. So, it kind of eliminates the soldering issue for you. But anyway, let's get
back to the point. Episode 1048 was a welcome return to Mr. Gadgets onto the network
here, with another of his drive by Shoals. And thankfully, he's got quite a few more
in the queue. This was entitled Get Off This Rock, the premise of which was if we don't,
you know, we're not very redundant if the only place we exist as humans and other plants
and animals is if we live on this planet. So, the following day was a 1049,
since his Thursday, on Camp 11, Laura Chakowsky, live outside of IRC and Floss. And this
was put together by Robert Gattling, who unfortunately wasn't that on Camp this year. And then
we had 1050, was Tokig, to be news from DeepGeek, a welcome back after long sabbatical. And
he was picked up his regular schedule. Then the first from our new host was an intro to
the music. And this was a nice show put together by CC Music, with some songs intermingled
with updates from the Floss, news from the Floss community. I particularly liked two, the
first two songs. I'm particularly liked the second two songs, but you know, there you
go. That's what you have with CC Music. Any of you into Creative Commons Music at all?
Yes, we are, aren't we Philip? Yeah, we love a bit of free music. Listen to Dan from
Linux Outlaws. Does he write whole radio? So, that's pretty good.
You've also got John Spreaks, John the Nice Guy Spreaks, that does CC hits.
Both of those shows have been syndicated here on the syndicate Thursday at the Hacker
Public Radio. Isn't there also a new one called the Bugcast?
That's correct, yep. Well, I don't know how new they are, but I think we've sent
the kids on recently. So, moving on, we had Linux in the shell.
Oh, Hang on a second. There's free music, a professor click. Have you ever listened to his
stuff? That's absolutely amazing. I paid money for that because it's a quality, which
is better than most of the crap that's available in the charts at the moment. So, that's
good stuff. So, professor click, looking up on Google. Well, is that a Bugcast or just
an artist? Yeah, that's the name of the artist, so he
releases most of his stuff on, but I'm pretty sure it's creative comments, so it's definitely
free, but you know. It is creative comments, Dan plays it quite a lot on
right, whole radio. Yeah, I thought I heard of him. The website is Professor
KLIQ, that's Kilo Lima, IndigoPubek.com. Then we had the following day was Dan's
continued 13th show on HBR, Linux in the shell, the top of top, and this was a in-depth
look into one of the most used commands on Linux, explaining what all the features of
top are. Yeah, I quite like that one because it's a command I've not really used before,
but I've actually started to use it because my PC is getting really slow, and I've just
found that by using it. It's Norseless, which is taken on my CPU and stuff, so it's
really good to know. I've done a brilliant job there. The covered areas there that I've
been using top for a long time, trying to control multi-using Linux systems and so forth,
never really understood all that it showed. Just looked at the guy who was hogging the CPU.
I thought Dan was a great job explaining every time the detail. He is absolutely excellent
going through each of the commands, and not in this one, in the next episode 14, which is 1062,
which we haven't got yet. It was the first time I seen him come across one of the options
where he didn't fully understand what was going on about it and I thought, yes, last, at least
he is human. Okay, well, getting back to the plan, which is 1053, which was Zoak with a question
also. Welcome back to Zoak. Zoak's question was essentially, do we need a charity for podcasters?
So what do you think? I think yes. Charity as in different than sort of using flatter or any kind
of donations mechanism on their site. I think the point was, yeah, a charity that would have
something like a 502C or 802C, whatever the US tax deductible for charities thing is,
then you could donate and it would be spread amongst podcasters. But as you say, Becky, I was
thinking while listening to it, yeah, would flatter or not allow you to do it like that.
The other rest, I mean, I left a comment on this episode. One thing that sprung to mind was,
isn't this the kind of thing that Linux fund is for? Tell us more. There is a charity already
to fund open source projects, Linux fund, and it currently funds things, I believe it's blender
and audacity or I think it's definitely blender, but there's a bunch of projects that they fund.
Would podcas not qualify as projects in this sort of arena?
They might very well do, but yeah, again, it's spurred some debate whether podcasters should be
funded. I don't actually know. I always look lowly on the contributions that I've made and I would
hate to think of somebody diverting money away from me, away to me, for instance, instead of
giving it to what I would consider myself or for foundations like they, accessible computing
foundation, for instance. I think the only trouble would be if we think about how our charity
organisation as a set up or certainly in the UK, the actual bidding of the money in that fund,
you know, you're in danger of making something so complicated that actually it's hard to manage.
Yeah, exactly. But nonetheless, a very interesting question. And the following day, we had another one
of the Ogcamp 11 shows, which was Becky Hugg, Barefoot and Cyberspace. The day after that was
Talk Geek to Me News. And then the following week was a complete Ogcamp week day one,
then we had Simon Fipps, a new show by Dooby, who was actually down in the booth beside us
at the exhibition area. And I convinced him to record a show on Submitted, so that was a
direct new contributor. Then we had Hardware Hacking and then we had the evening show,
the morning show of the Sunday and on the Friday, then we had the farewell. So that was the week
of Ogcamp. Can I just say that it worked really well this year, the way you did it, almost like
sound bites, so rather than long protracted interviews linking together lots of sound bites and it
did, it gave a good feel. Well, thank you very much, Becky. I actually promised far too much last year,
two people, which is the reason why, well, some of the things just to explain to people,
if this is the first time they listen to Hacquabwe Radio or if they joined us in the last year,
last year we didn't have that idea where you could reserve a block as such. Well,
we had it when I proposed it to the email list. And if you want to be part of, as I jokingly
said to Becky earlier on, the HPR Parliament, you can join the mailing list and you get an equal
say with everybody else and how HPR is wrong. And we agreed there that if somebody's going to
take the time to go to a show, to record interviews, then that they would be allowed to have a week
of shows after they come back. But more to your point, this time I didn't make any promises that
I was going to edit in shows or do accessibility versions of shows or tags or stuff like that.
It also must have made it easier for you, though, to actually keep the interviews sort of more
short and punchy because you knew, you know, how you were going to release them, you already had that
plan. No, I didn't. I just winged it. Was that off the car? Well done. Well, you think I planned
stuff? Keesh. I know you don't plan, Ken. Thank you very much. My feed and humanity is a store.
I'm sorry. Oh, the reason I know is because I just came over to your booth just to say hello
and have a chat. Or within like two seconds, I had a microphone in my face. Now, you can possibly
plan that. Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm in action with Steve as I've been doing machines.
He was like a podcasting robot. Exterminate. I think one year, though, I will try and give
a proper interview, Ken, as opposed to me just looking startled every time you put that microphone
in my face. Well, unfortunately, my mic is a bit intimidating because it's very directing through,
it's a very directional. And if it isn't right under your nose, then what happens is it fades away
very quickly. I'm using a Zoom H2. And so much so that one of the guys I was interviewing, I
wanted to say which kept walking away and we were about 10 meters at the end of the interview,
we were about 10 meters away from where we started to to such a point where I had to hold
us hand and pull them closer to the mic. Is it working? Backing us into corners. Yeah, you give us
nowhere to escape to. I have my evil plan. I think I should take responsibility as well.
So the next time it happens, Ken, I'm just going to punch you straight on the nose and say come
back in half an hour once I've composed my thoughts. Sure thing. David, did you want to say something
or? No, sorry, I was just suggesting my mumble settings. Not a mother. Okay, then moving on,
we had talk, give to me news, which was moved thanks to DeepGeek again for allowing us to bump
that out to the Monday. And then we had Linux in the shell, which was the bottom of top. And as I was
saying, Dan, this was the first time when he got into the kernel flags or something that he actually
went into the source code of the, you know, the actual.se.h files to get to find out what it
were. And it was the one time I felt that he was kind of threading on uncertain territory. But
my god, the amount of knowledge that that guy has is amazing. And then 1063 was Freedom and Licensing,
Ahuka, who was responding to using HPR as a platform to respond to the Linux action show,
who had, who had done an interviews with Richard Stormon and subsequently released
source code under the GPL. And I believe subsequently has returned it back to being proprietary
licensed, which was an interesting discussion on itself. And then we had 1064, which was the
AgCamp 11 discussion panel. And we still have more interviews from last year still in the queue
because I promised people to release them along with their shows. And then I promised other people
that I would release the shows only release the presentations if I had the slides translated. So
that's quite a lot of work. So that's why it's taking that amount of time. And then finally,
we had Levy with 1065, a wireless tip, which is officially the shortest hacker public radio
episode ever. Congratulations, Levy. Yeah, go, Levy. It's that because he had a bottle of
doom bar to get to. Thank you for the beers again to Clevy. The beers were awesome guys, thanks.
Beer's, hot beers, do we speak of? Clevian Marshall. I was just sat outside at AgCamp
and Clevian Marshall presented me with a Tesco's bag full of beer. It was amazing.
So I had to drink it. Oh, thank you very much, buddies.
Well, we took it all the way home with us. On the train.
We got a few odd looks because I put it on the table and started photographing it. But the
I did actually share it with Becky. So it was really nice as well. It's a proper nice
real ale from down in Hobbitland where they live down in coal. Oh, very nice, very nice.
Because I'll tell you one thing, the beer was very suspect there.
At Liverpool, definitely. Yeah, I mean, you have to, I really hit, well, for a start it was
really cheap. So the second it didn't taste like much. And for a third, you had 400 geeks all
looking all up until three or four o'clock in the morning drinking. Yes, we're able to have
coherent conversations. Yeah, there's something wrong there. There was actually, Becky was,
she was looking at the website for the hotel that we stayed in and that hosted all the parties
and stuff. She was saying that when you book in, you can pay a five, you can pay five, a five,
and you receive a bracelet. And from that point on, you get every drink you buy for a pound.
Well, that's interesting. Yeah, it wasn't very well advertised to us.
You're all dumbstruck now, aren't you? Don't want to? Then shocked and stunned. Although,
again, having drank the beer. Yeah, good, yeah, good point. Okay, let's move on to
to some tanks. Again, I wanted to thank David Whitman for chipping in for the banner. You know,
the big banner that we had there that was sponsored by David Whitman. And that was impressive.
It was even on, it was like looking professional as well. But like Edgepull was a proper professional
Exhibitor. What do you mean? I'm a professional exhibitor. I'm shocked. Thank you very much, Mike. I'm
really, really hurt to the core. But no, it was, it was fantastic, featured heavily also on
Dan's day one roundup thing where we had the met interview him into me and me and through him,
which may have sounded a bit odd to people if they hadn't known what was going on, I guess, on my end.
Yeah, no, I watched, I mean, the fans put the video up on YouTube anyway, so yeah, it might
be better if you look at that. But for, yeah, that was fantastic. And I would like to thank
personally, somebody who's on call here, Mr. Dave, for helping me out with a podcast list.
Thank you very much. I know, thank you on very, very rough to show. You're most welcome. It was
quite fun. Any more projects like that just let me know. I think we, I really like to get that
tidied up, so it could actually be run automatically. It's actually a lot of people seem to like it.
For some reason, just to be clear, the information and vast majority of that list has come from
the linuxlink.net. Dan Washco again from linux and the shell and the linuxlink.net,
has put together that. And I was sitting there one night thinking, okay, I want to give something
out to people so that, you know, here's a list of podcasts. Oh, thanks. Interesting. And if you're
interested in doing a podcast, here's our business card and how you can start doing it. So it was
a good way to kind of engage people as they walked past the booth. So LT.01, you can feel free to
join in. We're recording the hacker public radio community news if you want to join in. Feel free
to. And where was I? Yes. So it worked out very well to be able to hand out that list to people
and, you know, get them, get them started. Are you planning to, I know you got it on your
blog, the end result. Are you planning to keep it up to date there or put it on HPR or what?
What I would actually like to do is have the the back end thing and just give that to Dan
so that he could cron tab that script and then write, you were saying that you could do a HGML
thing. So write that in the format that Dan could use. Now he separates them out based on
linux shells and then other shells. So we would then need to look into the RSS feed if we could
identify the linux shells from the other shells or whether that would be some metadata we'd need
to add to the, um, to the yet another backup language file. Okay, okay. We can talk about it
on mumble press. Yes, indeed. How was amazed at how many there were?
Yeah, well, we had them sorted by last published date. So, you know, they're active. So the newer ones,
the ones that have released were further up, but it still got you still like just to explain
to people what I produced was a, a four booklet thing. So, a, four is like a letter page for the
US listeners and it was printed on both sides with four two sheets per page. So when you folded it
in the center, landscape, printed landscape, you can fold it over to make it into a little booklet
four page booklet. So I managed to kind of through hacking font sizes and stuff, managed to get
it onto a four page booklet and the writing was really, really small, but it was, it was quite
nice to be able to fit everybody in. And some other news is the, um, the deep geek again for
bumping your show. And I also met a mess of deep geeks talking to my news, which was the last show
that I published before I went to Alcamp. I put the wrong show notes out. And the MQ is not up
today. The encoding is not finished because I was at Alcamp. And for the coming months, I'm not going
to be doing any development, any other stuff, other than posting the shows and, you know, the regular
maintenance of all HPR because I need to do stuff for work and life. And for those of you who
are worried about deviates and a lot of Linux links show podcast, I was speaking to him on another
matter and he's doing fine, just doing a little bit of podfitting and, but his health is fine and
he himself is fine. So that's all I can use there. And one other thing is the new year show,
which Becky and Phil were on last year. Well, I was thinking about it and I was thinking perhaps
we could do a 24 hour show this year. 24 hours? Yes, indeed. And that's not as bad as you think,
because last year, actually, when I went to bed, I came up the following morning. The guys were
still going, but the 24 hour show, if we started it when he's new years in Tuvalu, if it's still
only 11 o'clock in the morning for me, 12 o'clock for you guys. And I was speaking to some of the
other podcasters and they also mentioned that it would be nice to get on board with that. And
this is an open invitation, it's not a HPR thing, but it would be nice to have like a year roundup
from the podcasting community. So I'll probably be contacting everybody on that list to see if they
wanted to join, because I'm just doing a 24 hour mumble extravaganza type of thing.
Without alcohol involved on New Year's Eve, oh my god. There's always alcohol on New Year's Eve.
Well, that's required. It was a hoot last year, actually, I really enjoyed it, so that's something
to look forward to, I think. Yeah, I was listening to the New Year's podcast and I noticed that there
was a distinct lowering of the tone when you guys came on. There was all of a sudden a massive swerve,
yes. I get work, I get work to rest.
For people who just listened to the heck of the Grigidio New Year's show from last year,
it was a 12 hour extravaganza arranged by Paul Kee. Paul Kee, not Paul Kee. Paul Kee.
And everybody was being nice and polite until, well, not until Becky, come on, yes. Becky
really accidentally left out an adult word and then there was a question of whether we were safe
for work and just to let everybody know yet again, the heck of a Grigidio has got an explicit tag on
iTunes, so make from that what you will put proof in the speech of encouragement. Yeah, bitch.
Can I just say in my defence that we've been taking part in some podcasts that are very
suitable for work, so therefore we do tend to watch our pees and cues and it was just a case of
I just sort of asked New Year's Eve alcohol was involved. Can I let slip a naughty and as soon
as you said I could, that was it, full on Tourette's. I was saying it made me shorter, but it
wasn't actually from you mostly, it was from the other guy. I can usually give it, give us good
as I get. Okay, so that's pretty much the community news show. Everyone have a good time or not.
A love camp, I did an amazing time and I've had a good night tonight as well.
Yeah, Paul is the best. Go ahead, dude. No, I just said it was fun. That's good. I should be back if
I'm invited. Oh, you are, of course. No, I mean, let's have a low down dirty chat about a
camp and how people were and how you've recovered and stuff like that. I was proper exhausted when
we got home on the Monday, on the Tuesday. I think it was tagged as Oglag on Twitter.
Yeah, I saw that. Yeah, it was worked. It was brilliant weekend, but it was, I don't know,
the combination of talking to people for like near enough, you know, 20, 24, 7. It was like
that and the excessive heat. It was just Liverpool. I just melted. I only had to walk like,
and that was it, or burst down in sweat. It was horrible, but the weekend was fantastic.
Yeah, it was a pretty good day. I mean, my mate was down from Scotland and I just had switched
into HB or Maldon. It was just odd. Whatever was a great, it was a really good weekend.
There's a definite more relaxed feel this year. I think, like, say, they're going from strength
to strength than, you know, improving on any sort of, like, miss not necessarily mistakes,
but maybe learning experiences. So it was definitely, like, say, more sort of slicker,
smoother, a lot more relaxed. What, Charles, what, um, talks did you get to see?
I went to see the apocalypse one. I saw the Stephen Fry one, but to be fair, I tend to go to
Ogcamp more for the chatting and the meeting with people. I'm quite aptly sitting outside
of a, you know, of a conference room or a talk and just talk to, you know, anyone.
Yeah, I did, I did a much of that as well. I, um, also, all the apocalypse one. We've
becky sat with Becky and watched that. That was good. I know, I'm now planning to pack my
inch kit, which is, I'm not coming home. So, but I think I'll take Becky out. I'll come
off as I say. I think I'll take Becky with me. Um, I watched, um, John the Nice.
How was the apocalypse on? Um, it was basically, it was about, um,
it was, it was huggers, wasn't it? Yeah. Yeah, it was, it was interesting. It was basically
loads, you know, talk about loads of different ways and which the apocalypse could happen.
And then it basically went in and talked about the culture behind people and
organizations and groups, which are preparing for the apocalypse. And I think he ended it with
saying that we're all doomed. So it was quite depressing for the first talk that I saw.
Then I went on and I watched, um, John the Nice Guy Spricks. He did a talk about, which was
quite interesting. It was a talk about how he, because he developed the, um, software for him and
his team developed the software for the organizing the actual talks and stuff. Um,
help me out. What was it called? Campfire manager. Yeah, that's it. Campfire manager. So his
talk was basically about how his team, him and his team worked with, um, version control and
how he managed, um, people contributing towards that. So that was a good talk. Um, I found that
interesting because I, it's, um, he, he works on quite a small, he was working on quite a small
sketch. So it's interesting just to see how other people do that sort of thing, um, in comparison to
how I've been working with CrunchBank. So, and then straight after that, in the same room, I watched
Nathan Demont do his ogg box talk, which was, it was, but it was just amazing really. I mean,
he's just a guy and he gives his talks almost with effortless kind of, it was effortless,
the way he talked about how he built this little device, um, completely free and open hardware
and open software, just as a, almost, um, what are those little devices that they sell,
seriously forgot? They sell Apple sales and, well, iPads. That's it. So it was, um,
a completely open alternative to an iPod. It's still pretty much in the early stages of development,
but it was fantastic just to see, you know, this sort of thing going on and I think that's what,
for me this year, that's what, it was, there was a lot more hardware stuff going on and Nathan's
talk was sort of like something out for me. It was brilliant. Yeah, I saw Nathan's talk as well and,
I was really impressed with it because it looked like a proper sort of professional printed
circuit board type thing. It just looked amazing and I got, I kept thinking, I wonder if I could
use record interviews for HPR? Hmm. So yeah, it was really good. From my point of view, Nathan
delivered it in a completely non-technical way so that even, you know, someone non-techy like me
could actually follow it. Yeah, definitely. It was, um, because to be fair, yeah, hardware guy and
some of the stuff that he was talking about went over my head, but it was, he made it really
easy to follow, so yeah, top notch. Yeah, I'd agree with that Becky and Phil. I quit, I quite
liked the way he, he talked about some of the chips he'd used and then the justifications
to, he'd used them to do, like, patent his, and patent some licenses and things. I thought it was
quite, quite interesting. Yeah, definitely. So yeah, I'm not sure if there's a video, there should
be videos available, all the talks, but it's, you know, if you're going, if you're just about,
if you're just going to watch one, I would probably recommend that one.
There's still a trick on the other side. And Mike, did you have, um, did you go to any other top?
Um, I saw the first one about freedom and licensing and it was, it was kind of interesting,
but I mainly just stopped there because that's where the, yeah, the sort of warm up speech from
given. Um, I can't remember now what I saw, it all seemed so long ago. But all the talks,
I saw were, were fantastic. I really enjoyed them all. Steven Fry podcast or video cast,
that was excellent. I did see that online. Oh, do go ahead. No, no, I was, um, all I was going to
say was, uh, didn't everybody go and see the quiz, the, uh, the, the three podcast quiz, the, um,
the, uh, the, uh, the, the, uh, the whole short quiz. That's right. Yeah. Yeah.
Suddenly lost the names of everybody there. Yeah. Did you watch that?
I saw that and I, I saw Ron, uh, manning the scoreboard. I thought that was impressive
and amazing and just totally, totally appropriate brilliant.
Yeah, true slapstick comedy potential that it was fantastic. Yeah, it was really hilarious
Yeah, and the the dove from above part as well with the tux from above. Sorry tux, tux from above
That's that made me yeah, chuckling. I did think that Pete Cannon was gonna have someone's eye out though
The way he was flicking those cards
Yeah, he was giving them some money
He did mention that as well since since then did they on the um did they um
They didn't do a a share of the combined podcast issue or other
No, there was a bit of communication from fairly towards the end
I think they were going to at the end of the raffle and then they decided not to and I think actually separately
UUPC and Linux outlaws have covered this in their show since obcap to explain why
But uh, I was well, I was annoyed because I missed the
The quiz talk roundup
Thank cuz that's the one talk that I I want to go to when we were kind of out on the exhibit exhibitors area
And we were really um on the first day we were kind of on the wing and
We were a bit out of it. It was only then that I realized that we were a bit out of it that the crew were already
Coming over to move us down to the um lower ground floor
Where we would be closer to the main auditorium
So just spot on on the crew before
People start complaining about it. They already have a resolution to the issues or talk about
Yeah, that was a good move. So it was uh because the first day it was almost
Well, I had trouble finding you on the first day, but the second day everybody was pretty much on that lower floor
Unless you were watching you know
A presentation in one of the rooms, but on the second day when they moved it all down to the lower ground floor and there was um
The exhibit isn't the cafe and everything it was brilliant down there. So
Yeah, I was kind of good to done there because at least people had registered done there
So they knew where the main hall was and then you okay, well, I know where that is because the geekney carrier was there as well
Did anyone spot the wiki house?
Because that was something that just seemed to fly under the radar
It just all of a sudden and there's a wiki house
That's a separate project that's part of um
DOES Liverpool or do epic shit Liverpool, isn't it? It's um aid McEwan
Is that one that stands for do epic shit Liverpool?
Yes, did you not know that
It was on the HPR podcast
No, I totally missed that sorry
Yeah, so does does Liverpool and they
Part of that because of open sourceness they have this project called this wiki house and it was being built at the university
Not because of odd camp. It's like an ongoing project, but aid McEwan who was upstairs with bubbly no
Um, he's part of that. His name was on one of the stannels one the sponsors of it
All right, okay
That makes sense. They I really really enjoyed doing them and treat by the way just for people
To know
Every conversation that I had as on camp was essentially recorded and released so
if you followed my
If you followed the HPR interviews you more or less got everything
But I did it on camp short of going getting tea and coffee and visiting all the facilities
Ken you didn't record our conversation about sharing a booth next year
No, but you can mention that if you wish
Okay, so on the way back from well, well, I think it was on the way back from the pub on the last night
Was it we sort of like had a conversation about the possibility of sharing a booth in the exhibitors area next year
So a hacker public radio combined
Consparing type of booth. So
That'd be cool
Surely that's going to be too much awesome in one place. You can never have too much awesome in one place
My two favorite men in one place. It's easy for me
but I will
I think that was that was the idea it was to have lots of awesome in one place and try and
Get people that might be interested in it. I'm completely stealing Ken's fund here because the idea is that
all the hacker public radio fans of the world might come over to the booth and
Might stumble across crunch bank and that'd be that'd be cool
So Phil can we expect a version of crunch bank with all HPR recording tools all integrate to be fit and stuff like audacity and all rest of it
No
No, I don't know maybe excellent excellent answer
Well, we could do us you could do a special
Re-bilt remix for just for that. Then can we that'd be cool
One thing I do know is that next year I will be
Testing my wireless beforehand. By the way people listening to the saga of my wireless it turns out that it is the hardware switch is broken
so
That's why the Wi-Fi isn't being detected by any distra
few
But uh yes
Um also we did also mention also foster them another large European event which is more convenient to me as it happens
Will be an ideal opportunity to try out that shared booth thing
Because at fostm I need two people to
Court man the booth
Although it can also be gumman the booth for anybody listening out there going to fostm
I need two people's names to put it down and if core nominal
um did uh core nominal did
Come over to fostm then uh it would help HPR out greatly because uh
Then we would have two people
Down there
It's under consideration. No seriously. I mean I'm not I'm not I can't commit at the moment to fostm um
But I think I'd like to go. I don't know see how things go. We're okay. I think on that one
And if all the crunch bang poor members could convince
Vince Philip we're to be able to go whether
She's standing right next to me. We're just about to troubleshoot her connection
We let's big ten port
Anyone got anything else to say or anything that we missed
Nothing here
So with that I will uh thank everybody for
um
Proporting up with all the archamp content. It was really really fantastic to
Talk to everybody mic
Sorry, I didn't give you the t-shirts on the day. You know the reason for that
and
Embarrassing the law
And they will be shipping over to you if people want to make their own t-shirts
The STBs for doing them are available on the website under hack public radio forward slash media
And there's images in there and you can print off your own t-shirts
And stuff like that
And if anybody is wants to run off stickers for us
For whatever for free feel free to do that and send them in because hack public radio is a
Community
All right with us. I'll uh talk to you later and thanks everybody for joining it
Thanks again. Thanks everyone
Yeah, massive thanks from me and Becky. Becky's I'm in trouble at the moment, but she wanted to say thank you
Okay, cheers everybody. Thanks Dave. Bye
You have been listening to hacker public radio. It's hacker public radio does our we are a community podcast
Network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
Today's show like all our shows was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself
If you ever consider recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy it really is
Hacker public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the economical computer club
HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binwreff.com
All binwreff projects are crowd-responsive by lunar pages
From shared hosting to custom private clouds go to lunar pages.com for all your hosting needs
Unless otherwise stasis today's show is released under a creative comments
Attribute show share a line lead us our license
