Episode: 1978
Title: HPR1978: Ultra High Vacuum: loading samples
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1978/hpr1978.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 12:45:07

---

This is HPR episode 1778 entitled Ultra High Machoom, Loading Samples.
It is hosted by Amunip and is about 3 minutes long.
The summary is a short overview on how to load a sample into UHV Ultra High Machoom.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello, this is Andres Manif again.
I'm A. Minus P at Member.FSF.org.
In case you want to find me through Jabber, if not, you can find me on new social in
AND-R-E-S-I-N-M-P. Andresing-M-P at loadaverage.org.
And in case if you want to send me a micro-block, I just wanted to share with you
the procedures I have to go through when removing a sample from Ultra High Machoom.
So following up from the previous cast that I was talking about,
Atomic Force Microscopy. I'm currently doing Atomic Force Microscopy
in Ultra High Vacuum. And thoughts that maybe I just go over the procedure that I have to go
through to remove a probe from the chamber. So currently I have a probe on the chamber.
First thing I need to do is remove it, remove the probe from the scanner head.
And that goes into sort of TIPX-Changer. And then that TIPX-Changer is set aside.
Then I have to go to what is called the load lock. The load lock, what I have to do is
normally not at atmospheric pressure, but maybe an intern between Ultra High Vacuum and
High Vacuum. So I need to pump it down. So that's the noise you hear in the background. That's
a rotary pump with a turbo pump. The idea is that the Ultra High Vacuum Chamber is in 10 to
the minus 6 times 10 to the minus 10 milli-bar currently. Whilst the load lock will be currently at
maybe 5 times 10 to the 5 milli-bar will actually tour. That's what I have. Let's just say it's
what it's the same. So what you do is the main chamber is pumped down with something that's called
an ion pump, which I can go into what it is later. But the load lock is pumped down to High Vacuum
using first a rotary pump and then a turbo pump. And that could bring you down to a pressure of
10 to the minus 7. I'm not going to wait that long because it's been currently running for about
half an hour. And even though I didn't start at atmospheric pressure, it's still only currently
at 10 to the minus 6. So I'm going to stop there.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and is part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is
released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
