Episode: 1851
Title: HPR1851: HPR Community News for August 2015
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1851/hpr1851.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 10:15:22

---

This is HBR Episode 1851 entitled HBR Community News for August 2015 and is part of the series
HBR Community News. It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 114 minutes long.
The summary is HBR Community News for August 2015.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
My name is Ken Fallon. You're listening to HBR Community News for August 2015.
Joining me tonight are from top to bottom. John, this is where you introduce yourself.
Oh, sorry. I couldn't see the screen. I'm looking at the web browser.
This is John Copen, Latheat, Louisiana.
Hello, this is Dave Morris in Edinburgh. This is Ken Fallon in the Netherlands.
Anyway, for those of you who have never heard of HBR or Community News, HBR is a community
podcast where the people listening to the shows contribute to the shows more about that later.
Also, the Community News is a little bit of a rundown, a bit of a sink for everybody on what's
been going on and heads up on stuff that we need to talk about. One of those things is the amount
of people contributing shows and why basically you have contributed to the show. We will be
pointing to individuals during this. Feel free to listen along to see if you're picked out.
We usually start by introducing the new hosts for the last month and going through last month's
shows. So, Dave, even though these two I can probably pronounce, I think it would be better if you
did. Okay, new hosts in August have been a shadowy figure and Foki, two excellent names there.
So, let's go through quickly the show that I've been on for this month and we will discuss
any common stuff. You can come across as well. The first one of the month is the HBR Community News,
which as I said before, is open to is a community news, anything that's going in around the community,
the community being the shows themselves, the mailing list, which anyone was free to join,
and stuff that's been emailed to the admin mailing list, which while anyone's free to join,
we do want to make sure that it's people who are known to the community and stuff so that we're
not starting international, instance, people who are known to the community, who's helped out us,
who've done a few shows, will help, who we've met at various different conferences and stuff like
that. So, comments for this month, there was no comments on this show itself. So, the following day,
we heard, how do I make bread? David G it's, Dave Morris, sorry Dave. Yes, well, this was in
response to some guy called Ken Fallon who'd been asking about bread making and so I told everybody
how I've made mine and hope, well, I think a few people enjoyed it anyway. It is absolutely a very,
very excellent show and unfortunately, I didn't get a chance to make it myself as yet and as
yet been the optimum term, but it is, the show notes are again excellent, Dave. I really like the
image magic one, two, three, four thing that you've done on top. You can tell I actually got another
show out of that because I did a show on how I made the images for that one, but excellent. And again,
one of these where I am just kind of sorry that we don't have like smell of vision or taste of
vision to go along with it. And this was really good, you know, there was a time when my wife used
to make bread all the time, probably two or three loaves a week. And man, it was excellent, but as we
get older and busier and the kids grow up, we find that we don't have much time to do it, but
love hearing about how people make bread. So, thank you very much for that episode Dave,
those great. I'm glad you're doing it. I'm going to try and get my wife to do an episode on the
two recipes she's actually settled on as a result of her own investigations. It can take a while
to settle on a favorite recipe. There's a whole lot of trial and error and definitely a lot of
hacking going on, you know, when you're finding recipes and adjusting to suit. I've always said
that my mother is one of the greatest hackers I've ever known because of the way that her cookbook
has so many alterations written into all of the recipes. And when I make stuff from my youth,
I always want to check with my mom too. So, I use it her hacked recipes rather than the ones that
are written verbatim in the cookbook. Yeah, that's RMS. You use that analogy quite a lot to explain.
But apparently a lot of people are claiming copyright on the recipes now as well.
Ron. There you go. The following day we had very time we wanted to do the comments on that one.
Oh, of course I did. Of course I did. Sorry. So, hello, perhaps I shouldn't. I'll start by saying
how about I do you, I'll do you do them that way. That would be good. And then you can do your
own feedback if you want. Okay, this was Charlie Egbert. Love the episode. He uses wax paper to cover
that they work in a line pan for baking to keep the bread from sticking. He has a couple of
bread makers around, but doesn't use them anymore, other than kneading the bread. The kneaded bread
quite well and keep it slightly elevated temperature, which is nice. He'll also have a look around
for some of the ingredients assuming the FDA has some random interesting show. He also likes watching
Alien Bob from Slackware fam post his bread experiments on the web. He also bicks.
Very hackery thing to do. And then Daniel Worth from the Open Musicians podcast.
I make a lot of food from scratch. He also makes a sourdough. He loves hearing other people's
process of cooking. Did a fantastic job on the episode to which you replied. Well, I said to
the two commenters. Thank you very much for the comments and to Charlie I said I'd never
thought of using wax paper. I think it's the same as what we call grease proof paper in the UK.
Exactly. But it's such a pain to get into bread tins, I find. But and I've never used the
knead only program for my bread maker, although I think my sons used it, but I'm not sure
you could make pizza or something with that. But yeah, so good luck with finding the ingredients.
I'm sure it doesn't matter that much, but you know, it's nice if you can get a bit of variety in
bread making and to Daniel. Sorry, go ahead. I was just going to say to Daniel, I said I'd like to
hear about how he makes sourdough bread, because that's always an interesting subject.
I was just about to say that I didn't realize that bread makers could do just the kneading,
but not the rest of it. So we've never had a bread maker. It's a good thing to invest in. As I said
in the episode, as life got busier for me, I bought one and used that as my main root for making
bread. So it's and they're not fantastically expensive and they're very good nowadays. So it's maybe
something to consider if you enjoy, you know, having your own homemade bread. When my wife was doing
this, maybe. Sorry. Yeah, my wife had bread from Ireland, she basically occasionally one time out
of 20. It wasn't mixed right and just all the dough would be all the flour would be on the bottom
and just be a big mess. So she went to a to a king who had done. My bread maker gets a little
bit silky, sometimes there's certain types of flour. I think it depends on the wetness of the dough
and weird things like that. So I always check it as it's kneading stuff and if it's not behaving
itself, I give it a wee poke to make it pick up all the flour so it doesn't, so it does what it's
supposed to do, but it needs watching which just sort of goes against the grain a bit, it goes against,
oh sorry, that was a bad one, but it goes against the principle of the process.
Okay, moving on to the following day, sorry John, were you finished?
Nah, it's all good, go ahead. People who are listening, I'm wondering why we're cutting in
on each other, that's where different parts of the world and time lag can cause issues, so it's
not intentional that I'm speaking over other people, except for Dave, of course. Of course.
And my bill, who I'm trying to secretly coax into doing more shows on electronics,
basic electronics stuff, but I really like to multi-meter mod one, and since started using a
started watching a YouTube series, which I will talk about later in an episode that I have coming up.
And this looks like a really, really nice multi-meter for about 50 bucks.
Yeah, you can get it in the UK too, I was checked up on that, it does look quite desirable,
almost tempted to buy one. I wish, I just wish I knew how to use the multi-meter that I have.
I mean, I can test for continuity and stuff, but I don't really understand
everything about it. I loved hearing him talk about the hack that he did to this, though,
to open it up and install a backlight and all of that stuff, I just love that.
Yeah, that appealed a lot to me, it's great to have a thing and then think, oh,
he's not doing quite what I want and then go in there and change it, make it work. That's true hacking.
If you go to a guy called MJL or Tion, MJ Lorton, he's South African gentleman and he does,
I'll paste it into the mumble chat here if you go to that guy's website on YouTube,
YouTube's website. He does a lot of multi-meter reviews, the guy has a fascination for multi-meter
reviews and he also does introduction to testing voltage and he's done a few introduction
series. Basically, he's been on there since 2010, so he's going to know a lot of episodes and
I'm working through them slowly, but very good, just explain anything you want to know about
multi-meters, what you should look for, the differences in price ranges and how to look at what
the percentage means and what the numbers of digits means and all that sort of stuff, so that's
what I've been watching all week. Thanks for the tip, I'm going to check that out. But as I say,
that's I will be doing a show on my YouTube subscriptions later on and they script that I've
written to do it. Sorry, Dave, you were saying? No, I was just going to agree with John saying
something about how to use a multi-meter would be, would be very nice to hear. I have one,
an old one with an actual, an analogue, one with a needle on it and I've used it in the past,
but I don't really know how to use it all that well, so yeah, agree.
John, mine a couple of times just to see how much I've used it a few times to check how much
power my battery, batteries are putting out, I did it, used it on my car and on some just like
a AA batteries and stuff like that, but the kinds of things Bill's talking about using it for,
I just don't understand it, and I think either something like these YouTube videos you're talking
about or even some HPR episodes by NWI Bill or someone else on just basic use of one of these
things would be excellent. Yes, absolutely, NWI Bill, I hope you're listening. John, you posted a
common saying amazing job. One of the favorite shows in the year looking forward and hearing this
becoming a series. See, I've cloned another, you owe me a showperson. To which, I might be replied,
thanks Paul, I thought I'd record an episode while I was doing a project, talk as you go, my thought
process, troubleshooting, etc. Although I felt the edges was a bit rough, I'm glad you like it.
And you should absolutely not be worried about things being rough. What I've found interesting
about a lot of these episodes is you're sitting down and you come across a problem,
and then comes back with a fix and goes, okay, well, I'm not going to be able to do that.
That's pretty much how a lot of my projects go, you start something, it doesn't work out,
you stop for a while, life catches up, then you go back to it and sometimes you finish it,
sometimes you don't. I agree. In the episode I just uploaded yesterday, there is a major
disappointment about six minutes into the episode that I then will rectify later, so I decided
to keep that whole thing in the recording anyway. Excellent, excellent. I'm looking forward to that,
as you know, I don't listen to shows until they're released. Of course you have released
episode 1A29 was my new used Kindle DX. You got this at the Goodwill version.
I'm not at the Goodwill now. I got this one I wish. I got this one on Amazon. Yeah, I paid
good money for this one. It was 128 bucks on Amazon used, but I found out that they retailed
originally for nearly $500 after I poked around a bit, but yeah, I'm just kind of a degenerate for
e-book devices, and so I got this even though I already had two other Kindles.
But this looks like a fantastic, fantastic one, because the guy who I mentioned is one of his
projects is trying to charge, he's into solar panels and stuff, and living off the grid,
and one of his projects is trying to charge this exact Kindle using solar panels and super
capacitors. Yeah, well, it goes wrong in so many ways, so he's got 16, 17 different episodes
on this alone, but it's great because you go through, you know, people just put up the YouTube
videos here, I made this simple circuit, and this is how it works, and you know, you can see his
iterations as he goes through, and it's fantastic as somebody interested in electronics too. Well,
I tried this, and then this happened. All right, and then you'll see how I'm going to fix that,
and it turns into a mess, and then he just goes back to basics at the end, so it's excellent.
You do well worth a lot. Yeah, well, as I tell my students, you learn a whole lot more from
mistakes than you do from doing it right the first time, so maybe that's what this guy's going on.
And the comments to this show was from freeweeb, freeweeb, freeweeb, F, Fokstra Whiskey, Echo, Echo, Bravo,
BQ caveats. You mentioned that you were looking for an unaffiliated e-reader. How about the BQ
curve? Soventies. Thank you Dave. Thank you. It is a touch expensive, but it is unaffiliated,
and as a bonus, the version I've linked to runs open-source slack. I don't have one, but I'm awfully
tempted. Yeah, I don't have the Servantes, and I looked at the link that he put in there, and it
certainly looked really interesting, but it's not available over here. I would have to order it
from Europe and have it sent here. It's 139 euros. That's right, pricey. Six inch e-screen
front light technology in your reflection, only 185 grams, therapy, eight gig of internal RAM,
150, 1500 milliamp hour ion battery developed in Spain. It's got Spanish,
Basque, Catalan, English, Galicia, Portugese, Wi-Fi, Asia 2011, BG, MicroSD, USB-2,
dictionary, several dictionaries. Commatible with EPOV, PDF, DRM, P-B2, Moby, Doc, TFF,
and text files. PDF files with DRM, that's interesting. How they managed that and free project.
It's very strange. I mean, it does look like a great device. I'd love to have one, but I'm
probably not going to order one. If anyone has one, please do a review. And then send it to me.
Apparently, cyber-groog, Dave, cyber-groo, I think that one is. Thank you. Do you want to
read it? You've been eaten by a guru, I imagine that is, but anyway, yeah, says one thing you missed.
Another good show, John, one thing about the Kindle DX that you missed is that it can display
full-size PDF documents without resizing them or reflowing. That's quite unusual, I'd have thought.
It works great for technical PDFs like scientific papers with embedded graphics and graphs, for
example. It can handle very large PDF documents, but changing pages is very slow. Also, it can
display other formats as well, plain-asky text, for example. On mine, there is an experimental
features menu item that claims it can retrieve web pages by cellular, I think I've never used this
feature, so I don't know if or how well it works. The DX appears to have been an attempt at a
professional version of the Kindle and appears to have features that were not on other Kindles,
which explains its price and short life. That's interesting. Yeah, and I commented after that that,
yeah, I did forgot to talk about the PDF capabilities, and it's probably because I still, I tried this,
and I didn't really like PDFs on this all that much either. I mean, it's better than on a small Kindle,
but I still didn't like it all that much. It's not too bad for musical scores. I loaded up some
scores on there in PDF format, and it looked pretty good. One downside of the PDF on that device was
that you could not access any embedded table of contents that might be there, which is something that
I talked about on a previous episode that I did about PDF TK, how you can embed tables of contents,
and once I've done that, I want to have access to it, and so this thing doesn't give me access to
that table of contents, so it's not that great. The experimental web browser that he mentioned
is something that I've not used on this Kindle DX because the wireless doesn't work, but I've
used it quite a lot on my other Kindle, my Kindle Paper White, and actually what I use it for
is to access my book collection, which I have on my Raspberry Pi, and I serve it up using the
Caliber library server that's built into the Caliber program, and I can access my whole
caliber library from the Raspberry Pi in this web browser, and then download books straight to
my Kindle from that. That is a very powerful program. Okay, there was also a comment,
yeah, did you already reply to the comments that you replied back to? Did you cover it?
I think so. Okay, shall we move on to the next one? Yeah, that's enough about mine.
No, it's one of mine, how hard on the work screen wheels, yeah. This is a show that a series actually
I want to start that Dave has asked for, which is basically an outsider's view of Holland,
and as I mentioned during the episode, I'm here so long I don't know if I necessarily
find any of this stuff interesting or weird or not, anymore. But it is, and this episode I tried
to record 17 times, and for some reason sometimes you do in an episode and it just gets jinxed,
and so I went down and just did it. I really liked this one. I mean, I don't think we have any
service like this in the region where I live, but I've heard about it in places up in the northeast,
not this particular system, but some kind of car rental system that works in basically the same way,
and my solution for not having a second car was just to buy a second car, but that's a
forthcoming episode, but I really thought this was interesting. Yeah, no, sorry. No, I was just going
to agree and say, yeah, thanks very much for that. It was an interesting insight. I quite like
the graphics too, actually. I mean, it's dead simple to use, but again, it just happens to be
where I live, that we live in the room, and the lesson was pretty close, 20 minutes from Amsterdam,
and the other side, the whole central, the whole coast of what people tend to know as Holland,
the province of Holland, is very well served with public transport. So it works here, but if it
was living anywhere else, you'd still have to have a car, and we were in England, we had two cars
even, so it is just lucky that I can do that. I'm curious. Are all the cars essentially the same
kind of car, or do they have things like pickup trucks that you could rent for an hour and move a
large item somewhere and then take it back? Yeah, they don't tend to have pickup trucks per say in
Europe at all, and any pickup trucks that there are, are people who have imported them from the
states and they keep them pristine, so they don't dare to put anything into them. But they do have
like station wagons, and the station wagons are kind of larger vehicles that can fit seven people
and you can flip the back seat over and put in a large pallet of stuff into it, and those
those ones are only in the bigger towns, but you know, you're still within 10 kilometers of one or
two of those in any of the towns around. So here I would need to cycle down five kilometers to
the nearest town and grab that one from there and then use that, but that then is slightly more
expensive to rent. Interesting. But it's amazing what you can fit into the back one of these things,
and I have had times where I needed to move larger amount of stuff and then it just becomes cheaper
to rent a van for a day. Yeah, even over here you can rent a truck for a day, a whole lot cheaper
than you can buy a new one. Yeah, exactly. And we did the maths because I did have a car when
I moved here first, and you know, I used to wash my car every month because, yeah, because of me,
and I had washed it twice without actually having driven it, so it had been there up there for
three months, so we did the maths on how much it was costing us for, you know, tax doing the,
you know, emissions test, the MOT, or whatever it's called here. And apica is what it's called here.
And just it didn't make any sense. If we had paid a taxi to bring us for the amount of times
that we've used, that we would still be making money if we had used a taxi for everything. So,
yeah, it's an old brand, or get rid of the car. Well, I wish it were that easy here.
Sadly, where I live, cars are necessary. I mean, we only just recently got the second one,
but we'll talk more about that in a little bit. So the 5150 says, she can, I thought this was your
long promise description. I have windmill on the dyke system works. Windmills, I have recorded,
yes, I have not edited it, but it's on the list. The dyke system, I actually was going to record
in a place, but it was out with the family and I thought, no, it's more appropriate to be a dad,
so sometimes. And Dave, you mentioned, do you want to read it yourself for?
Yeah, just to say that it was interesting to have that sort of insight into how things are
done in other parts of the world. And we do have a city car scheme here in Edinburgh, pretty similar,
I think. Though, I don't think it's quite as sophisticated, but I've never used it, so I don't
actually know. Well, it's quite common for people in the city itself, not to have their own
transport, just use that for, similarly, our argument to the one you made.
Yeah, actually, but there you go. The following day we had, new host, a shadowy figure,
our speed listening and show background music, compatible. Excellent show, well done, although
he criticised my episode on my life hack and how to tell your left and right earbud apart.
I'm offended, sir. I'm offended. I thought you would have been delighted, because it did just
what you wanted to do. Yes. Yes, that's true. Well, actually, I'm serious. I really think
that's a good life hack. I use that every day, just as a bud of eye. It is a good life hack.
On my own earbugs, I don't have to do that because they're the kind that sling and sit over your
ear with these little hooks, and so it's easier to tell which one is which, based on that.
And John, you replied to this?
Yeah, he asked, I guess he was asking somewhere in the podcast about how fast people like to
listen to these things, and so I replied 1.7x. That's how fast I normally listen to, although I
mentioned that, if the focus of the show is music, then I will listen at normal speed.
So for the bug cast, for example, I listen at normal speed, and any podcast I listen to where
they're just talking, and music isn't the focus of the show, I go 1.7.
I would be more or less the same. I would be 1.82, and then down to, you know, I have a separate
cue for music shows. And here I'd like you to that saying, thank you John, I find your contributions
both entertaining and formative, royalty viewing music isn't generally what I'd like to focus on,
but rather some sort of ambience for background to add something to the entertainment value of
presentations or even transitional segments that includes musical or other forms of non-vocal
cues between thoughts of segments in essence, adding some color to the audio presentation,
think radio lab, or this American life, etc. I personally feel adding this sort of elements may
encourage casual Haitian runs listeners to tune in again, not only for the educational content,
but for the entertainment as well, thanks again John. And Vindigo just commented on the 1.5x,
he started speeding up podcasts at work, he gave some 1.5x, although some have gone up to 2x.
And just on my personal feeling, and we've had debates on this topic about whether to put music
into the, into shows or not, as bedding music into shows or not, you know, splitting up segments,
I don't think anybody has a problem with them, splitting up segments, but there are two trails
of thought about whether you should post music as bedding music, and there are, as HBR have
been, there's been a lot of discussion on this, speaking with my HBR admin hat on now officially.
There have been two trails of thought, discussion on the mail list, and if you want to discuss this,
feel free to open the topic on the mail list, but taking my HBR hat on, I'm putting my podcast
listeners hat on for a moment here just to be very, very clear. There is never a good reason for
putting bedding music into podcasts. Stop it right now! I have to agree with that, I don't like
to have bedding music either. I do like bumper music between segments, but I don't like to have
music going on while people are talking. It's a great, I had a Twitter voice with Dan from
Rattle Radio when he started putting in bedding music in the background. It's really, really,
really annoying. It's surprising that Dan would do that. I mean, I haven't listened to Rattle Radio
in a very long time, but they never used to do that on Linux outlaws.
But then that's a music show, and a lot of people like it because they're listening bars and
listening live, so there's a bit of jive going on in the background, they're in the zone,
whereas I'm listening a market, it just distracts. Yeah, and it really gets annoying if you're listening
at high speed. Absolutely, and speeding it up to 1.7 want to do anything. It just makes it very
difficult to listen to a show, especially when you, all my shows, not only do I speed it up to
1.8 to or something like that, I will also switch it down to mono so that I can listen to money.
So, and the reason I do that is if there's a delay on the trains or anything, you're listening,
you take out one ear, and you're listening to the announcements going past on the public address
system, which can be very, very, very crappy by times. So, anything, then you don't pick,
you're not able to pick up the podcast, it's just too much going on, it's very frustrating.
Yeah, it sounds like you might need to try out the, remember my episode about headphones,
one of them was these bone conduction things, which are great for that kind of situation because
your ears are still wide open. When I heard that, I did stop at and make a note of the
of the modern numbers to go and give it a shout, but on the other hand, there is a lot of times
where I don't want to be hearing what people are saying on the train. Very true. So, yes,
well, the shadowy figure, excellent show, and I love your icon, or icon, please,
anybody help me. Avatar, that's the one, that's the one. I knew you'd get there in the end.
It took a while. We covered all the comments on that, did we Dave? Yes, I think we did.
Dave is distracted because I told him my SQL script earlier on. So, if you ever want to,
if you ever want to distract Dave, just tell him, Dave, how would you do this? I'm going to come
back into half an hour. I've tried really hard not to be distracted. It's not work in mind,
do it. The following day was, how I use Markdown and Pandak in writing workflow
by Be Easy. Why do we have an alternative text link in there for images? Oh, because it's
doing what it's supposed to do. Sorry, in the show notes. This is an episode about Pandak,
a tool that I had no clue existed, but kind of thinking that it might make a way into our
automated workflow would now be a good time to talk about that discussion we had offline, David.
Certainly, if you want to, yes, I think it's a good subject. Yes, go ahead.
Okay, so we've done a lot of work on automating stuff. One of the main things that we've done
has been the web upload thing, which has made sure that the format, at least for all the questions,
has your intro been added, has your outro been added, has your summary been added, that sort of thing,
that there's always a title of the correct length that is always synopsis and the show notes
and stuff was always there. So that's really helped a lot. So people are wondering, has been asked on
IRC and also David's been asking, why does it sometimes take a long time for shows to be posted
and sometimes it doesn't? And the answer to that is because the process of posting the shows is
still me doing it. And Dave is off to help, and that's fine, but there is a human doing it.
And the reason there's a human doing it is because they show notes themselves come in different
formats. That's put it like that. Sometimes they come up in text, sometimes people send them in as
TZ files, Dave. I have uploaded the show notes to the FTP server, Dave. So everyone
is the wrong way of doing it, which is our all valid and correct ways, and we're very happy to get
the show notes. But we're working through a process of how we were actually Dave and I are going
through all the old show notes to see if there's a way that we can automate the processing of the
shows so that there will be process faster. So that then we can just when somebody's finished
uploading a show, it will get emails to the admin list, which are again, people who are open to
anybody who is known as the community. And one of those people can then simply approve or
disprove the show. And we're also looking at a way to bypass that, which is why you're asked for
your PGP key. So the idea is that if you've got your PGP key in there and you're a trusted member,
there's a little tick that goes beside your name. That way you can automatically validate your
own shows and submit them in so there'll be nobody in the way. But the issue is right at the minute
that we do get different formats of different interpretations of formats. And that's presenting
us with a little bit of a problem. So basically the upload is still a manual task at the moment
that's the long on the short of it. And when we heard this show, we had a quick look to see if this
would be any use to us so that perhaps people could start submitting shows in Markdown or any of the
other formats that Pandock supports because then it would allow us to pull out valid XHTML
for slurping into the show notes. So that pretty much was that. And this was an excellent episode,
excellent introduction to Pandock and Markdown by Be Easy. I keep waiting for Dave to comment on this,
but he must be doing that SQL query thing. No, I'm just sort of absorbing the possibilities here
because the whole issue of submitting, well, let me go back a bit. The way I actually do my
shows and I've been doing this for a while now is I write them in Markdown and I use Pandock to
generate the output. And I discovered along the way that Pandock can generate EPUB and I've been
playing around with putting EPUB out and that sort of stuff. What I had wanted to do
in the days before we had the new submission form was I was producing a script or set of script
which I was hoping I could get offered to people and say, look, run these and they will simplify
the process of you generating your show. I think it was maybe a not entirely a realistic idea.
It's what I do. I use the scripts to do this, but I'm not sure they're really
going to ever be suitable for somebody else to use. And as an aside, the reason why I'm still
producing my shows in the format that I am is because I'm using this script set which is still
generating them in the old format. And I haven't changed it yet. But this has taught me
generating Markdown is a great way to go because it's a relatively simple way of representing
text that you want to turn into HTML or various other formats. I don't think it's a very difficult
one to use personally. It's very, very close to the way I used to make ASCII notes back in the day
before we had the before Markdown was even invented. And I think that's why Markdown was invented
because it's very similar to the way that people used to make notes on PDAs and
just typing on terminals and whatever. And so it seemed to me to be a pretty good way of
going forward. But I find when I make utterances like this, I find very often I'm completely
obsessed. So I tend not to say that very often. But here's me saying it now.
Well, I wouldn't have any problems switching to Markdown. I've been using just kind of simple HTML
for my notes. But I'm also very familiar with Markdown. And if you guys decided that's what we
should do, I'd be super easy. I use it all the time at work because the learning management system
we use Moodle has built in Markdown support. And so I'm always writing quick notes to my students
using Markdown for some simple formatting. But I like to sprinkle in a bit of HTML just because
you have a little more control with that. Yes, so yes, that's true. Well, that's an important
point you've made, John, because Markdown is becoming more or less the standard across a
wide range of applications. I'm not an expert on this, but I certainly see it in many contexts.
I think GitHub has it and GitLab has it. And many others do. I couldn't enumerate them all.
So I think it's becoming generally accepted out there in the world.
Okay, well, then I would suggest, personally, I don't care so long as it's valid. If it's,
if somebody uploads show notes.md or whatever, or show notes.html, then that will be treated as
an xhtml document. If they upload a show notes.md, that will be treated as a Markdown document,
or they're just placed in Markdown. But which of the 4,000 variants are we going to support?
And this is why I think most of them essentially handle things the same way. I mean, I use multi-markdown
on my laptop, but then the code that I use it with almost always looks exactly the same when I use
it on Moodle on the learning management system. And I click Save. It'll show up just like I had on
my laptop. So I think the many variants of this aren't, it seems like the differences come in
the more advanced kind of markup that you do, things like tables and stuff like that. The very
basic things like bullet points, bold italics. Those I think are going to be pretty much the same
across all of the various flavors of Markdown. Yeah, personally, I think it's fine. If people want
to send in Markdown, that's fine. If they want to send in hhtml, that's fine. But what makes life
difficult is when it's a mixture of the two. When it's formatted text, preformatted text, when it
kind looks like Markdown, but it's got some hhtml in there, it means you really need to, you better off
having plain text stopping. And what you end up doing, what I end up having to do is basically
rewriting the show notes manually. And that, if that happens and it's in the queue and there are hhls
behind, then the hhls behind are waiting because I don't have the time right at that moment
to fix it. So yeah, just try and send in same stuff to us. That would be great.
Yeah, I've been looking at the possibility of analysing text, which is not
any sort of markup language, or possibly maybe first of all detecting what it is, if at all possible.
And if it's not anything known, flagging it and having a bit of a go at
turning it into Markdown and then offering it to somebody, Ken on myself, to
in an editor, to fix it and then turn it, then put it through Pandox to generate hhtml. But
that's not a simple thing at all. It's just turning out to this, I think most people would have
guessed to be quite complex. But we'll see how it goes. If Markdown using Pandox to convert
from Markdown and text hhtml, which is what we put on the website, is easy peasy lemon squeezy. So
great if we can do that. But if you are using some form of Markdown, can you just put in the heading
type of Markdown you're using if it's not? If it's some sort of... I think there's probably
converters from all these languages to hhtml or xhtml. So that's not an issue. What I'd like to know
is what people would like having supported. So that would be kind of cool so that we would know
beforehand. Because we're easy to put in a, you know, my show notes are in hhtml, my show notes
are in Markdown, my show notes are in form at a plain text. Also, we want to make it too complex
for people because the show notes, as always, are optional. If you don't, we want the shows,
we'll get somebody to write the show notes of me. So, yeah, send in something. Send in shows,
that's important. But... Okay. The other thing I suppose we could talk about as Be Easy has done
here. There are tools that assist in the process of generating Markdown. I think it's
re-text is the one, the first one in these lists that I think I've used that, which lets you type
Markdown in one's in a double pane screen. You type it in one pane and you see the result in the
other. You can run that on your desktop and that's actually quite a useful way of preparing stuff.
And a lot of editors have plugins that will do this too. It seems like I use Genie as my
main text editor and it has a Markdown plugin that will give you a preview. Jezra also has written
a Markdown preview program. I think he just calls it Markdowner and I've got it installed on here,
but I haven't used it all that much. I normally don't need the preview because I already know
what it's going to look like. Yeah, same here. I use the BIM, it's BIM's pan.plug-in, it checks
the syntax of stuff that I write and I just run it through a make file and then look at it in a
browser. That's the way I work, but I wouldn't force that on to anybody else. Yeah, but again,
it doesn't actually matter because you guys send in validated, because you work at the stuff and
as does be easy. So the stuff that you guys are going to be sending in is going to be valid
whatever the spec is. It's when you start kind of deviating from the spec where you know maybe
newer users or people aren't familiar with that. We're putting in a barrier to submitting
shows if you have to learn Markdown and if you have to learn HTML. So possibly another option
might be to put in a wizzywig editor on the HPR website which can't be done using static HTML
and would need to have a yes JavaScript tool on the page to do that. But that could be a pop-up
window that's you know click here for more formatting that you would know that you were going into
a JavaScript website webpage on the website because there is no JavaScript on HPR. If you come
across JavaScript on HPR, it's been put there maliciously. So maybe might be no harm firing an
email off to the mailing list to get people discussing this. Sounds good. Okay, let's talk about
the show notes for this excellent episode. And 0xf10e said thanks very useful, nice episode,
many things I didn't know about Markdown. While I prefer restructured tasks over Markdown,
just like he or she prefers Mercool Python GoLang over Git Paralljava, I have to use it in Git Lab
so like I say, it's very useful and the restructured text is rst2pdf works without latex,
smiley face, and ps1 of the words you were looking for us, what you see is what you get. And John
Comp is here to do his live reading of his comments. Yeah, you're not going to like this one very
much Ken because I I point out that you can freely sprinkle in bits of HTML as needed in Markdown
and it doesn't mess up anything. Then I do like that. I don't have a problem with again, I don't
have a problem with stuff as long as it comes out as the author intended at the end. Okay. And that
actually when Dave and I were doing some tests on this, I was quite impressed to see that it's
allowed HTML to pass through some HTML to pass through not all of a sort. Yeah, I'm not even sure
which does and which doesn't, but I know when I'm using Moodle and I put any kind of hyperlinks,
like I can't use the shortcut for Markdown hyperlinks, you know, the angle brackets on either end
of the URL, I can use it, but then on our version of Moodle at least when I go back and try to
re-edit something, my link disappears for I have no idea why, but so when I'm putting a hyperlink
in a Markdown page on Moodle, I use standard HTML, a tag with the href and all of that to make
my links, just because I know if I don't, I'm going to be sorry later. Yeah, so and this is exactly
the point. So say you have Dave who does it that way and then we process it and we don't realize that
and the person who's submitting the show doesn't realize that that's happening and then we have
to manually edit it to get all the links, because all the links are now broken, so we end up
spending more time putting the links back in fixing your HTML for you and then the question is,
do you rely on playback to the host saying, look, I've just wasted a half hour of my life fixing
your show notes, which you in all the faith sent in to me, which is why I, this is a very awkward
topic for me to discuss, because I don't want to stop people from contributing and I also don't
want to necessarily give feedback about, you know, show notes not being submitted correctly, because
they have been submitted. It's just it's taken me quite a long time to figure them out. But come
back to your example, it is possible for us to fix that, because if that's, if that is the only issue
with, with Markdown coming through and if everybody's submitting shows, Markdown not saying that
anybody has to, he can still submit them with text or not, we'll do the show notes. Then we can
always write a pre-imposed parser script that will beforehand check for that and fix it, and
afterwards extract all the links and put them into a link section at the bottom, which is something
that we're planning on doing anyway, because of the way that we release our show notes, not all
feeder feed readers convert links correctly. So we always make sure that our links are visible
for copy and pasting. So for example, instead of saying click here for Hacker Public Radio, it will
be click here and then in brackets, Hacker, it should be called on for so far, so check
out public radio dot log. Ah, that's good to know. So yes, we can get around all the stuff, but
it's a, it's a little bit of a, it's, in some ways, it's been easy, some of the things have been
easy to fix or to automate because, you know, everybody's doing it that way. So then, you know,
fine, we'll just do it that way. Other things about how to do your show notes is a very personal
thing. So I want to make sure that whatever we put up is what they host intended us to put up,
so yeah, just like that. And Dave, do you want to do a live reading of your
content? Indeed, indeed. I said X on episode, I use Markdown and Pandock myself for all my HPR
episode, though I've not yet moved away from ASCII doc when writing my own project notes and similar
things. I did start with that a number of years ago. And a while ago, I had to look at the best
lightweight markup format. I was very happy to find Markdown and then I found Pandock and very
much appreciated its extensions and huge range of features. So thanks very much for your great
overview. So yeah, it's really, really useful to bring this to everybody's attention. And it's
definitely going to be added to the toolbox of the show automation. So thanks very much for that.
The following show was resurrecting its IBM T40 and attempt to bring a 13 year old
laptop back to life from Swift 110 who I keep missing in the IRC channel. And the reason for that
is I check in in the morning on the train and then I check in at the beginning of work and I'm
really not all from them to the IRC, I just pop in and out. So not avoiding you Swift one then.
Very good episode. I love this laptop. All was one to one, but there were always two expensive.
Yeah, great, great laptop. Quite really something like that. Myself actually, just as a
as the one to take to to conferences or something like that. And it's the perfect train.
Is this one of those ones? Is this one of those ones that's got that little red dot thing by your
index finger to use as a mouse? Yep. Yeah, that's kind of cool. I've never had one of these, but I've
seen them. These are like the ones that you can, you know, assault and battery. Yeah, you can
use them as a laptop and also a blunt instrument. But a good show. And then the following day,
lowering the quality of shows again, John Colk with his password cards. How to hire how to pass
her using a password card. It's up to somebody else to start submitting shows so there's not enough
room for me to submit anymore. There you go. Stop him. Stop him. This was existential. Thanks,
thanks, John for this. And we're using I would not have used this myself, but I can see how it
would be cool. I don't use it all the time, but like I said in the episode, I use a password card to
hide one of my passwords that I find myself needing to type in occasionally. Otherwise, I just
use the password databases on key pass on my phone, my tablet and my laptop.
Yeah, I use an oddly enough, I would, I like this because you can, you can print off this and
give it to somebody and say, look, you know, here's your password there, from there to there,
and then they'll have it and it's printed on the screen. And yeah, I like it as maybe the entry
to your key pass stuff that's on your monitor. Yeah, well, it's certainly better than just taping
the password and plaintext under your keyboard or something. Well, you know, about that, I think
that if you're at home, that's a valid thing to do. It's, well, it's not a great thing to do,
excuse me, it's not something that I would ever encourage people to do, but you know, if somebody's
breaking into your home, they're, they're physically got access to your home computer, I think,
all that's wrong for that stage, you know. Yeah, well, there's that, yeah. And, okay, cool,
and comments, Dave, do you want to read your commenter? Yes, yes, yes. I certainly find the
show very useful and said so, I'd never come across this idea before and thought it was really good.
Didn't know about PWGN, actually, I've got out of the world of password generators, really,
these days I'd use key password, everything. Back in the day when I was working at university,
I used to use APG as password generator, which was the rage at the time, but it was the days when
we all thought that eight character passwords were highly secure. So, oh, and thank you very
much for the ambient bird song at the start of the episode, I said, which as always, I really enjoy
that sort of out there in the world, type things, the outside in the world ones, I do like.
Yeah, I have a couple more of those kinds of things coming up as well. PWGN is something I use
also with one of the scripts that I use to make my cat post the, it's, I think I call it security
kiddies password of the day, and so he'll post a message to the social networking timeline
with a randomly generated password of a specified character length, and it uses PWGN to create
the password. That's very good. I actually wrote my own password generator years ago,
because I wrote the university's student registration system, so the students came in and got
their account when they started university and that, so they lost the passwords, it generated them
a new one on a bit of paper and that type of thing. So I wrote that and I feel completely dwarfed
by the, how wonderful these things are compared to the crappy thing that I produced.
Well, I got a brag on my son here from my son took a computer programming class over the summer,
and he did it online through Duke University, and it was four kids about his eight, he's 14,
and it was for kids, I think, between 12 and 15 years old, and they, they learned C-sharp,
that's not necessarily the language I would have chosen, but he seemed to learn quite a bit,
and then after the class was over, he had an idea one day to write his own random password generator,
and he did it. It took him maybe half an hour, and he came up with a random password generator
that uses the random library in C-sharp and it takes as the character set all of the valid ASCII
characters, and you can tell it how many characters you want the password to be, and it'll generate
one for you. So I was really proud of him, he did a nice job on that.
Very cool, yeah, yeah, that sounds like sort of stuff that we were doing back in the day.
We have other constraints, because people compute ones and else, so you had to filter out
you know, any potential ambiguity, and other potential ambiguities in the things,
and we were also generating buses for a whole range of different services, some of which
had really crappy Windows password limits, and some of which had less crappy limits, and so the
other thing had to know, you know, this is the password for system X, therefore it needs to be made
in this way, and et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. But yeah, it's a fun subject, but I'm glad I don't
do it anymore to be honest. Yeah, by the way, I think the PWGen program has command line options
that will take care of the kinds of difficulties you describe. I mean, you can leave out special
characters or include them, or you can leave out numbers or include them, and you can also tell
it to avoid characters that could be mistaken for other characters like zero in an uppercase. Oh,
I saw that. I saw that. That's what I was saying. I was sort of shocked at how clever it was
compared to my crappy efforts at this back in the day. Well, still, you had the fun of writing one.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So the following day was a Friday. I know this because it was Libra
Office Impress Pictures using and formatting pictures, creating a photo album, and this is part
of a whose Libra Office series, and he's now on Libra Office Impress. And I did not know that
this was possible, that you could even scan from a scanner directly from a scanner into a photo
album. This actually might be quite useful for some other project that I was thinking about
scanning all the documents for archiving. So very, very good show for there. As usual, I mean,
once again, I use this program quite a lot for my slideshows for where I teach at the university,
and yet again, he comes up with something that I'd never even heard of that it can do. So
who could always manage this to do that? And again, he's doing nothing more than reading the
things on my page, although in fairness, it's a hooker and he's writing it as he goes along as well.
He does contribute back to this project quite a lot, so well done him. Yep.
Then we had the status net shuffle, and this is through and NY Bill, talking about status
status net instance and converting it to GNU social, and I can't say anything bad about
through for several reasons. One that he has a video of me has a webcam that hopefully he will
never release on the internet. So I have seen it, okay, now I have seen it, I know it exists
anyway. Yes, yes, yes, very embarrassing. Dave, can you send that to me please?
Okay, sure, yeah. And but interesting, a lot of a lot of work involved in this GNU social,
a lot more, I'm so glad that I'm not actually managing a GNU social website, to be honest.
I jumped on when it goes about a year or two ago. Yeah, I hadn't fully appreciated all the
ins and outs of these things. It's having joined GNU social in the past,
but since FOSDA actually, it understand a little bit more about what running such a thing must be,
though I don't particularly want to do it, just it's quite impressive. I ran one for quite a while,
but then when there was a database crash on my server, I decided I didn't want to anymore,
and so I just got myself on account on when to go instance of GNU social, and I'm much happier
that way. Yeah, yes, yes, because a lot more sleep at night. Yep. And there were comments to that
episode by X0XF10E. You should put up some VPS-based blog, something where you could push
Markdown or RST to engage or Mercurial repository. This is way harder to lose the contents as you
have it in at least two different places, to which in my bill replied, maybe someday. I never
thought of that, even if it's not just published blog, at least you can keep your notes safe.
This is a method this method would make for a good age for your episode. We're in quick
and over us here. See him turn on everybody in today. You need to submit shows first.
And then we had a German gentleman to be frank. We met as Dave Belgiumer. Thank you, that's
the one. Sorry, following asleep, it's past my bedtime. And he put an SSD into his Linux box
and supplied all the commands to do that. I have just been given a SSD 250 gig SSD
laptop with 16 gigs of RAM. And I put Fedora 2200 from work. And now I'm taking it off because
it doesn't support it. So it's a one dates Fedora 22. And there you go. But yes, I'm very happy
about that. I've met my day, but I still haven't had a chance to use it. Sounds like a nice machine.
Yep. It's a nice still quite a lot lighter than the one that I have at the minute, but I had thought
it was a smaller model, which would have been nice for the train and stuff. You know, to have a beefy
laptop, but yeah, I do a lot of processing offline processing of large database, see type files.
So yes, that was a good show. And tips about trim support, which I had no idea existed. But there you
go. And 0XF10E, who I think at this stage, if you come on three times, that you have to actually
do a show. A little correction on ATA trim, fragmentation of files isn't a problem on SSD,
but the SSD controller leads to know which blocks can reuse for leveling out the wear of the flash
cells. As the SSD knows nothing about the file system, it's storing the data on only can swap out
the blocks that they've that they when they're overwritten once. On this, of course, the OS tells
the solid state drive, I need free these logical blocks. You do know one to use them.
This is why the SSD controller can add the blocks to its free list and reallocate the underlying
flash cells as soon as all the logical blocks are free or remap the leftover logical blocks to the
free they rest of the flash cell. Oops, cut a little long. Don't worry about that. And Nora
replied, Dave, do you want to do that? Or not? No, no, fine, sorry, sorry. Distracted there for a second.
Yeah, Noah says minimizing rights. I just want to take a quick moment to disagree with your
recommendation to put swap and or var slash var on traditional spinning disk in order to limit
rights to your SSD. Yes, doing so may ultimately increase the expected lifetime of the drive,
but you're missing out on the greatest benefits of the SSD by doing so. SSDs are extremely
faster random access patterns, but for sequential operations such as reading or writing large files,
they aren't significantly faster than spinning disks. The parts of your system that perform the
most random access operations are likely to be swap and slash var. Speeding up swap is quite
possibly the single best application for an SSD in a Linux system. That's interesting. Yeah,
yeah, I've heard more people saying the opposite. I have to say, but I don't know the truth
of it myself. But that sounds like a logical argument actually. It does, yes. Cool. But yes,
Noah and 0xf10e, if nothing else, do a show explain and how to pronounce your
your handle. That would be awesome. Thank you very much. Both of you guys could do
little shows about those that would be fantastic. And thanks again, Frank, for sharing that episode.
And if anyone has any little smidgen of German at all, their, uh, Siri, their, uh, show,
Linux on their own is absolutely awesome, lovely podcast to listen to. It's very slow.
And it's got lots of words in there that even if you have not only a German, you'll be able to
kind of pick up what they're talking about. Waking up, we'll, we'll, we'll, to go. And we've learned
in the intervening time that his, um, headdress is not special Indian headdress. He's looking
through a pinball machine apparently in this thing, which is a lot less, uh, a lot less cool than
I thought it was going to be. So yes, it's, it's quite cool. In its own now, there's just, just
to, to support Windigo there. It's quite cool. It is, it is cool. As I saw this, I saw this
or something similar to it at the, um, the Dutch camp thing that I went to and reported from
and was very hot. And we can't remember its name. That was oh, wasn't it? Thank you very much Dave,
my regards. I'm, right. I have to do the same for me sometimes. Yep. Um, 2013, 2015,
that there are 2013 or 2013, I think. Yep. And his, he has a done many nine. And there are many ways
to, uh, to skin, uh, to approach a problem. And I can be happily say that I would not have picked
any of his ways of approaching this problem. So it's interesting. It's awesome. It is awesome.
Don't get me wrong. It's also, it's just how other people approach the same problem. I would have
just got a lot. There's only one way to do that. And it's this. I would never afford of, uh,
putting audacious to sleep for five seconds and then making it up again, uh, which is a perfectly
valid way of doing it. Don't get me wrong. I don't think I would have done it that way in it. I mean,
I, I have a comment to this episode that will summarize my thoughts on it, but yeah. Shall we jump
down to that? Yeah. Go ahead. Uh, yeah. So, uh, after hearing this episode, my comment has the
title, can you hear me? Yes, I can. Sorry about that. I've been having a little bit of audio
break up on my end, but I'm assuming that it's going okay on y'all's end. Yeah. So the title of
my comment is the very essence. And I say, when to go, I salute you. In this episode, you've
captured the spirit, the very essence of HPR. Either that or you were just trying to see if you can
make Dave Morris twitch enough to send shockwaves across the ocean and feel them over here.
All of us listening, I'm sure we're shouting suggestions at our audio players, but every
last one of them would have drained the awesome out of your alarm system. I see no bugs here.
Absolutely perfect. Absolutely perfect. I do have to which you reply. Yeah, that was,
that was a great comment there, John. Um, yes, I said, well, of course, I had to then say,
well, I wouldn't have done it that way, but not that was just a joke. Very fine entertain shows.
I wouldn't have done it, though, but that was, um, I wasn't really here to chastise and wag
a finger at him, but that was really the point. But, um, no, I wouldn't have done it that way.
Probably got would have bought an alarm clock, actually, but that's, you know, that breaks
through the whole hacker spirit. Um, I didn't twitch excessively. I wasn't wild about the
multiple sleep solution, but then neither were you, as I said in my comment. I thought the use
of at was great. Background 2005, I wrote a thing for my work as a cis admin at the university that
allowed people to request migration of their mailboxes from a Unix mail system to exchange by
sending an email to a particular server. It slurped their mail out of one system and into another
into the other one, the exchange system using iMac. But I didn't want that to be more than about
four slurped jobs running at once, because iMac is not very efficient. So anyway, long story short,
I used at to schedule the work and do avoid bottlenecks. And this was a supreme lash up. They're not
quite in the same ballpark as when it goes on, I think, supreme lash up, but it worked. Yours
was the perfect hacker story, thanks. And then my build applied. I think the next logical step here
is to enter your desired wake up time from the mini nine via clockwork. Steam band. Awesome.
And those were applied. This episode shows exactly why nine geeks think geeks are weird while
giving us geeks a nice warm glow. Yes, you could buy an alarm clock for pennies for whoever
would perform an sense of achievement being that. I once found myself in a hotel room without my phone
or any other kind of alarm. I had to be off early for the next meeting. My solution was to create
a simple MS access application. He was on the company laptop. To pull the system clock until
it reached five thirty, then repeatedly triggered the beep. I took all of five minutes to call
and test. Absolutely excellent. That's pretty good. Yes. That's great. Actually, I'd love to see
this because of a series guys like Dave, you know, those truck, you know, those is Gutenberg machines
or you know, that hits a hammer that falls thing. Oh, yes, yes. This reminds me of I saw the other
day in the, sorry, Dave, go ahead. No, no, sorry. I was just just trying to think of an answer to
Ken's to help Ken's memory there. Gold for machine. That's the one. Yeah, a root goldberg is what you
think it was. Yes. Yes. Sorry, John. Now, I was just going to say that the other day I had to go to
a meeting on campus in the computer science building. And in the men's room inside the bathroom stall,
there was a poster on the inside of the stall that clearly was made by one of the computer science
graduate students or someone. And it said months of programming can save you weeks of planning.
Yes. Absolutely. That's what this reminds me of. Absolutely. No, I think where I think when
it's script does exactly what it says in the tin. Have a script that will wake you up in the morning.
Does it wake you up? Yes, I know. Then we had John Colp, the following day with my new use pickup
truck. And I have to admit, for quite a while through this, I was going, does this pass the of
interest to Hacker test? And I was a John just telling us all how cool his new pickup truck was.
Why don't you tell the moment where you said about the making a copy of your keys if you have
two keys that you can clone it? From then on, it was hacking all the way as far as I was concerned.
Well, I tried to mix in some do-it-yourself repairs and stuff like that. But the ability to clone the
keys doing it yourself inside the truck rather than paying either a locksmith or the four dealership
much more money to do it to me. I like that. Absolutely. I didn't even know it was possible because
my brother got charged 300 euros for that, which was more than the price of the second-hand
carry bot. Yeah, yeah. I don't know that that would have cost this much. I don't know if that
would have cost this much for the truck, but for the truck key. But I think it would have been about
80 or $90 and I paid $15. I actually like this episode because the all the way through. I used to
do a lot of repairs on my car, you know, back when I had a car and I just basically able to afford
every pay packet was putting something else on to make it not fall apart as much. So these were
enjoyable shows. So keep it coming, yeah. Yeah, I have part of an episode about the break repair job
already recorded, but now I have to actually do the break repair job and I'll do some recording
after that. Cool. Excellent. Did you have to say? No, no, I was just agreeing with the
the appeal of the the key cloning bit. I've certainly hacked the key on my previous car,
which was not as sophisticated, but the electronics of it all fell out and so I've sort of rebuilt,
rebuilt it in an alternative shell. I think I managed to acquire an empty one from the car dealer,
because if you, you know, there's all massive amounts of expensive, you want new keys and stuff,
it's one of these, these ripoffs. Gotcha. Like toner on printers and stuff. Anyway,
the following day we had run an external command on Kate and I must admit, you know,
HBR talking about is it the show of interest hackers for new listeners? If you're wondering if
your show is of interest hackers or not, it is if one or more hackers are interested in us. So
you're already a hacker because you're submitting a show to hacker public radio. So you only need one
other person to be interested in the show for to be of interest to hackers and that other person
usually is me. And in this case, I cheated a little because I was the person recording the show
and the person listening to the show. This was just for me because every so often after a update,
the this plugin to Kate disappears and it takes me an hour or two to figure out how to get it back.
So I thought, well, I'll do a HBR show because we were running our very, very, very low on shows
at the time on how to get back. So I don't know if it's of interest, Tony Willie. I hope it was,
but it definitely will be for me in the future. Yeah, that was really interesting.
I've never taken to KDE. I've tried it a few times and the one part of it that I really liked was
the Kate text editor, but I didn't like the rest of it enough to keep it. So I really liked hearing
this. I do similar things to this with Blather voice commands, but it would be pretty cool to have
this text filter thing set up in my genie text editor, but I don't think there's a plugin that
does this exact thing for genie. Kate is pretty smart to editor. It's not quite as nice as
them, but it's appealing to a different audience, I think. I certainly use it. I use Kate quite a
lot. I thought this was, this is very helpful and interesting. I've not really explored all the
ends and outs of Kate. So it's good to know about this. Yeah, I end up just doing Kate the whole day
because it's just my editor of choice. I don't know how it happened, but it happened.
This plugin one day, when I could do this, rather than having to save the file and then
do the set up and graph and then come back in, press F5 to refresh it. Yeah, this is just
absolutely excellent. Even on a sort of table or something in the middle of a block of text,
you just highlight that block of text and then you sort it. So pretty cool. Anyway,
if nothing else, it was for me. And my way to Linux, how I found Linux from point cards to Man
Jarrow by Falky, and I have to admit that I was thrilled to get this on because for ages we have
said that if people, contributors feel uncomfortable about regarding their shows that they could always
do a text-to-speech challenge, or there's a list of people who have volunteered to do a narration
of their episodes if they wished. I would love to hear Falky doing this in his own voice, but I
really, really, really enjoy this episode. Not only because, like, oh, the coolness of the text
speech, but the fact that, as Windigo says, and I quote here, I am always a fan of how I found
Linux episodes, but not many have taken me to Eastern Berlin first, a fascinating story,
and hopefully the first of many episodes, welcome to HBOR, to which Falky replied. Thank you very
much. You're very welcome, Windigo, but I wasn't living in Berlin. I lived in a small town
not far from the Baltic Sea. I have already ideas for more episodes, and we will see when I have
time to dare to record my own voice. Please do so. Please do so. Yes, indeed.
Yeah, I agree. I mean, I don't really mind hearing e-speak, but I would prefer to hear people's
own voices. I think at first people don't like hearing themselves, and they assume that other people
won't like their voices, but I don't think that's true, really. It can be awkward to hear your own
voice at first, but I think other people just, they don't mind. I mean, it just sounds like you,
so I definitely encourage him to use his own voice. I think his issue is probably that English is
second-language here, so we are very forgiving here. People put up with my bad English.
So, yes, take your time, read it slowly, and don't worry about it. You can always put the text,
if you're reading from the text, you can put the text into the show notes, and people can read
along. Yeah, so very good episode. Keep in common. Thank you very much. I was going to say the same
thing, put the text up, and then we'd love to hear your voice, and what I love listening to
accents as well, so go for it. The following day in response to our low shoals, and if somebody
from who's English isn't there, first-language can submit a show, then surely the people listening to
the show, who have not submitted a show in the last 12 months, need to start submitting shows.
Because, folks, we are running out of shows constantly. There's always a trick, and we're relying
on Dave Morris, we're relying on John Colp, we're relying on NYU, we're relying on Kevin Ahuka,
we're relying on the all-regular show people, actually, to have the list of people who submitted
shows over and over again, these people are having to submit shows because you're not getting off
your lazy beep to record a show for us, yeah? So please record shows and send them in. I know you
have a list of all I will do that show sometime. Yeah, now is the time to start sending them in.
Record them over the winter in the Northern Hemisphere here in the Southern Hemisphere,
while enjoy your summer and record some shows. I'm sorry, folks.
It's a rant, yeah, you know, I actually really enjoy doing the shows and it's not that I have to,
but since the fall semester started up, I'm not going to be able to supply as many as I have
over the summer, so some new people or some old people who haven't done it in a while should
probably get after it here. And that's exactly, it's not that we don't want to hear you, John, it's just
a HPR, the whole point of HPR is that it is not a show where, you know, regular hosts and you
get the regular slots doing the regular thing. Yes, it could be like that, but and there are people
who come in quite often and will do shows a while ago, Klaatu was doing shows quite often because
he was the one who was taking up the slack. Now it's other people are coming in. Thankfully,
we have more people who are coming in taking off the slack, so you don't notice this as much,
but I did a calculation on the number of episodes submitted by Hulse. And of all the Hulse last year,
we had of all the people who submitted the shows, they each had done five shows in the last year.
Yeah, so that means that taking into taking out the people who are only submitted one shows,
it averaged out that everybody had submitted five shows, so that is far, far too high.
We want to have new blood coming in, we want to have people who are young people, old people,
people from diverse communities, we want all the hackers that we can get telling us about
how they got into tech, what their passion is in life, you're listening to podcasts,
the excuse or if nothing interesting to say it doesn't cause it anymore, I want to know what
else is on your podcast player. If you stuck for episodes, I will find you episodes.
This is a community podcast, right? It's like if you go into a log meeting and the same three people
are getting up every time to give you the shows. What about the other 50 people who are in the room?
There are more than 8,000 people who will listen to the show, and yet we only have, I don't know,
300 people, 300 hosts who have ever committed contributors to show. Guys, Dave, can you cut me off
here because I'm going on around too much? I think you've made the point that I can, yes, yes.
Thank you. Speaking of people who contribute shows, it's Tit Radio 20, you've been polled probably.
Peter 64 went on holidays, I think went to China or somewhere, and 50 and 50 put up a show
here. It's made me chuckle. It also made me very sad about that FCC ruling about the
OpenWRTV band on firmwares. Not very good. That's a pity. All of the railries in my house run
that stuff, so I hope I'm not running a fell of the law already. Maybe it's only in newer ones or
something. That this is banned. I don't know. They don't allow to import them anymore, so yeah.
Not good. Not good. The following day, we had some bash tips by Dave. Hold on, can
also have some comments. Do you want to go through those? Please do, please do.
So we had a comment from 0XF10E who comments on the car malware issue. I'm expecting more
ransomware bricking cars than causing accidents. This was in relation to the ability to hack cars.
First week, windscreen wipers and air conditioning are disabled until you pay five bitcoins.
Second week, speed is limited to 30 miles an hour until you pay 10 bitcoins. Third week,
your car won't start until you pay 20 bitcoins. Way less incentive for law enforcement to come
after them when they go for people's money instead of everyone's safety. I would have actually
laughed at that if it wasn't for them. In fact, that people are encrypting hard drives and doing
this very thing. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I know. It's all too likely, doesn't it?
And Mike, I made the comment. We're doomed, I tell you. That was essentially my thought when I was
listening to this. I mean, I had to stop listening because I just couldn't take any more bad news.
No, it came. It came very thick and fast. Mike says, I think I'll just make myself a tin fall
happens sitting in the cupboard under the stairs. Just wait till they start cracking train and bus
systems. Actually, yeah, I thought I wouldn't have had that much of a problem with this. I hate
the public transport system, the check-in checkout system, maybe I'll do an episode on that too,
okay, some bash tips, Dave. Can we do that now? Yes, indeed. Some fantastic comments on that show,
about pushty, pop-d, and durs. And again, excellent show notes associated with that if you follow
the link with examples. I still don't get it, Dave. You have not convinced me on like all your other
shows. I'm not convinced by this one. Yes, well, there was this fellow called Ken Valin who commented
to that. In fact, obsolete he says, hi, Dave, I can never get my head around these commands and
your show has clarified them for me. I've never been able to get a use case for this. It cannot
be done using CD- that jumps you back to the previous directory. Running it again brings you back
to where you started, which of course is quite true. I attempted to give one possible use case for
it, but I have to say that I use this a lot, but I used it back in the day when I was a
Unix system administrator where we used dumb terminals most of the time, or we didn't have,
we had an X term emulator on a Windows box or something to get to our machines. And if you
just got the one terminal, then using push the impopty is quite useful to allow you to
to leap around between different directories. Nowadays, it's not really necessary in most cases.
So I tend to agree, but I thought it might be interesting. I'm glad that you did this
episode because I've known about these commands, but I'm never really used them and I might try
to incorporate them into some of my bladder commands. If I'm hopping around the different
directories, I actually have bladder commands that will take me to some of the most frequently
used ones from a cis admins point of view, but I'd like to have a series of commands to build a
stack of directories and then hop back to the second one or the fourth one or whatever. So I might
experiment with this a bit. Well, I have actually written some scripts around the idea because
there's a bash array that holds the stack, in which you can see. You can't manipulate to any
great degree. You can read it, but you can't change it to have the sort of effect that you want
if I remember right. So while I'm since I looked at this, but certainly you could write stuff around
it that was able to tell you what is directory two in the stack or something and then go there
if you wanted to. So yeah, yeah, go for it. But are you able to like pick from a list, if it's
a, if it's an array, then you should be able to pick like 0, 1, 2 and 3, store the metals,
animations, index numbers, right? Yeah. Okay, that might actually be useful. Yeah, I think there
are still some some uses for it. As I said in my response to your comment that it may be
obsolescent or outmoded, but it's still, I think it's still worth knowing about maybe using this,
John said, because I always find it a bit dangerous, to be honest, when I've looked at it in the past
because if you get the ordering wrong, then suddenly you're changing into the incorrect directory and
the chances of running something. That's why I always use opposite full paths names, not relative
paths in any script that I do, because I want to be absolutely sure I'm in that directory and
no other directory. That's good practice anyway. Yeah, yeah, I would definitely do that.
But you never know, maybe somebody might write an alarm clock based on us. Who knows?
Oh, dude, that sounds like a challenge, I can't do that. Yeah, I'll tell you if I do, I will, I will
do a short one. And the following day we had the Marn, how do you pronounce that, John?
Marn, I'm sorry, I think it's Moran's. Okay, thank you. And yeah, it's not a, not a nice story,
how do you manage to get it, but it seems like your mother-in-law had quite an act of fulfilling life
by the sounds of it. Certainly did. Yeah, she traveled all around the world for a good part of her
life. And so that was like for her work. But then she also would do field recordings. She has a
book that she wrote called Voices of Resistance, which is a series of interviews with women who
are involved in the Moroccan resistance back in, I don't know, the 50s or 60s or something. And so
she would take this recorder and record the interviews and then transcribe them and publish them.
And so yeah, she did a lot of oral history and I was really glad to get the recorder,
but it will definitely miss her. But as I said, when she had her stroke, she was in Morocco,
giving a paper at a conference, doing what she loved. So she never had to give up her walk-up
apartment in Manhattan and things like that. So I think she led a good life. And the, it's actually
sounded quite nice, the recording better with the second microphone, I think.
Right. At first, I recorded part of it in my carport using the built-in microphones, which
aren't bad, but the microphone that she had with it, the external microphone is really a very nice
one. Audio Technica, Audio Technica ATM 710, Cardioid Condenser mic. And yeah, that one sounded
really good. Micro-replied sync quality. I love the show. As I do all of John Schoels, the words,
this is John Culp in Lefayette, Louisiana, is always guaranteed your quality. Today might be an
exception. Oh my god. And she knows to be on the show, but they sound recorder sounds like very
nice piece of case and the sound quality was superb. Pity about the compact flash media.
And the harpsichord music break was always very pleasant to which John replied.
Thank you so much for the nice comments, Mike. Regarding the bumper music, I got it from the
open goldberg variations. A wonderful performance and completely free to download and share.
And by the way, Mike, it was not harpsichord playing it. It was a piano. However, the piece was
originally written for the harpsichord. Kevin O'Brien commented. I agree with Mike. I also find
John Culp showed it's very good. So that's very nice. Thanks, Kevin.
Excellent. Excellent, John. To the following day,
Leblow Office Impress, the tea, the gallery and themes. What I liked about this was his reference
to the icons being like Tlipper out of the 1990s website. So yes, very true, but I suppose that's where
the history of this. People wanted Tlipper at one stage in their work processor.
Can't remember the last time I used Tlipper. Now it tends to look a little bit cheesy when you do
doesn't it? Because it's that type of stuff. Yeah, good to know. A few magazines that I get and
you know, homemade magazines and they're spluttered with that sort of Tlipper. But it doesn't take away
from the content though. It's quite nice. It's nice to know that Leblow Office has that
and you know, why take it out. And you can put your own in as well, which I actually sat down
there following along with Impress for this one, just so I could get to the full details of it.
And it's hell of a thing. Hell of a package that Leblow Office is. And then the next day we had
did a quick review of his favorite multimeter, the Unity UT-61E. And I liked this as well,
also because I'm following up watching the other multimeter videos on YouTube. And this one
looks like it's covered all the bases with regards to things that he suggests. I also see that he's
got a variable power supply on his desk. Photograph is supplied. So I like these. I think
M.I. Bill is assuming that people listening know more about stuff than we do. So a few basic,
few basic shows on stuff will be really helpful. I agree. I would definitely like to hear more
basically how to use this thing rather than a product review.
M.I. Gray said the UT measures. He had great episode on the UT multimeters. He had a UT-60A,
which has an opto-isolated serial port. Sadly, the software was totally inaccessible to someone
who like himself can't see. So he's been writing his own to run on Linux. And those of us who
know about M.I. Gray will understand that that's what he does. Admittedly, I started a few years ago
and did some initial work on reverse engineering the protocol, which I can't find documented anywhere.
Hearing this episode is always a project I was project to resurrect the code and
compiling it. I have another multimeter which actually talks, which has stopped me doing the
completing the project once before. I think the UT-60E possibly other models like the UT-61E
have similar ports and probably have serial all sorts. It's always an impressive range of meters
given the price by editors note or my note. That seems to correspond with what I've seen on
other videos. I'll go back to Mike's comments. When I have something completed and talking,
I'll stick it on the web and do a show. Yes, you will. Thank you. It could be good to get bladder
to respond by making measurements and breathing it out alone. That would be great. Yeah.
It would be worth then because this is like a reasonably affordable multi-measure because then
you'd know it'll work in Linux. It works with bladder and all the shows that Mike and M.I. Bill would
follow along. Everybody using the same multimeter. So N.Y. Bill commented,
replied to this comment saying thanks to the kind words Mike. That's sorry, you can hear my cat
in the background maybe? I don't know. That's just an F. I thought it was something. This microphone
I've got is so sensitive that you can probably hear it. What do they say in that fart from
Ray some distance away? Anyway, sorry. That's just an episode that I felt like doing because I
felt I was a bit harsh on the uni-T meters. You do get a lot of bang for your buck with those units.
And yes, this one has the serial to opto a couple of connectors as well. Who has...
Sorry. What's your car's called, Dave? I am Misty. I'm fortunate. She's annoyed because she can't
go out because I can't get up and open the door and let her out. We don't have a cat flap.
So she's sort of expressing. Anyway, how far have I got up? Yes. I did say they sell a connector.
We'll go to USB. But as I said in the episode, I don't really feel in need for that feature anyway.
However, I'm sure some do. And yes, if you could get one of these meters going text-to-speech,
that's an episode I'd like to hear. Dave, you can go and let the cat out. I never thought I'd say that.
The reason for the USB stuff is I think you can do logging to overtime.
So you could log, you know, voltage or current over time. And if you had two of them,
you could log voltage and current and then calculate the power of stuff as it recharges overnight,
copying all this from the guy who uses this form. He does that logging to computer with
the multi meters so that he can see how much power consumption he's getting from his solar panels.
Anyway, microwave replied. The unit team meters and serial ports, having written the first comment,
took another look online and found some stuff about the standard DMM chip used inside the meter.
And I think all the unity meters, the only problem I think might be the serial port. I'm not
sure whether it will work with a neither PL 2303 or a FTDI USB to serial adapter, since the
client software needed to raise either a CTS or an RTS or Bolt to power the octocoupler in the leads.
If UTC or USB to meter adapter, I'd like to know where to get one. I particularly like the RMS
feature you mentioned in your show, which is uncommon in such a cheap meter. And the RMS is where
it takes an average of the voltage AC current and back to the current. I'm jealous of your ability
to add a timeout power modifier, though, could have done with that when I could see, but not now,
forever leave my media switched on and flattening the batteries.
To which my bill replied, here's the USB connector mic. This says it will work with a UT61,
and I see a UT60 is listed. I think they are going to use in a question mark like an asterisk.
It's cheap enough. Maybe I'll throw one in the cart for the next Amazon order and see if we can
get the UTF units off or working with wine. Slash me wonders if Ken or Dave is reading all this in
the community news. Let's be verbose. Ha, ha, ha, and my bill. Yes, we are.
Nice. Yes, nice. I didn't even spot that earlier.
Microwave replied PL2303 USB to RS232 and UT6. Thank you, Mike. I'm happy to report that myself
or works with the measure plugged into PL2303 USB to serial adapter. So either the octocopivers
are being powered somehow else, or I have the term I all set up right. Or there is some magic
about the adapter. I don't think these things supported hard, where I didn't think these things
supported harder, handshaking pins, and you two guys need to have a room to continue talking about
these comments. Thank you very much. You do realize that we shouldn't even have read these
going into the rules because they're their September's comments, not in August, but I'll shut up now
and go away. No, they're, well, I thought we were allowed to read them if they were in the show.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So this show wasn't. I was just being facetious.
Thank you, Dave. I did mention it's late and I've been working hard all day. Thank you very much.
Okay, guys, I'm going to have to take off. I'm going to take my kids to their pottery class,
but I've enjoyed it and I will talk to you all later. John, thank you very much for joining.
Thanks. We're going to wrap up. John's going on too long. See you soon, John. Cheers.
God, I thought that guy would never leave. I'm still here.
Bye, guys. See you, John.
Nice guy. I actually looked up where it left yet. Louisiana is
close to New Orleans. Only that far on the map.
It's this is why John's often mentioned going to sit by the swamps and that sort of stuff.
Sounds good. Seriously, you know, I have it in my head like do do do do do do that. I will
someday take the kids and not that they ever wanted to go to Disneyland or anything would take
take the kids and drive around you know higher Winnevego and go around the states and meet up
all the podcasters as I go. I'd love to do that because some of the places where you know people
live are really really really beautiful places. Oh yes. Oh yes. I sympathize with that point of view.
David, how are we dealing with the comments? Well, we have two that are not included in the
in the way we've just read them. Hold on a second. This will in my bill. Sorry, I'm late.
So don't forget your reverbs, which was in my bill talking about refurbishing his Lenovo.
I'm modifying it to the way he likes it. This is where he did the
uh put the speakers in the front and change the bias. And his comment was uh sorry I'm late.
On the comments guys, I bought the rig via microcentre polky. So there's a comment on the question
of polky ad. Again, in case you didn't know to be on prepare. So so yes, you probably bought
something by now, but just in case anyone reads it in the future new egg tag or direct
Lenovo offers and the Dell outlet also sell refurbs. And thanks for the kind words,
Charles and energy. Yes, I've always hacking on something and it's fun to blabber about projects
on HBO as well. Yes, it is. And this is me getting checking comments is only been about nine
months. I don't know if fair enough. I did uh did point out to N.Y. Bill that he could uh
subscribe to the comment feed and and get them uh in a more timely way. I'm not sure the people
are fully aware of of its existence to be honest. Yeah. I actually want to talk about that as well
can but just remind me in a minute. There was another show comment on the last pass
getting hacked. What does it mean? Which was won by a hooker who who uh what did
you expect it for us? And I met the valid uh point, but it is not free software. Free
isn't freedom would would not be an ethical question mark. And again, to remind everybody
where your HPR itself is uh not necessarily a free software um show. You could do shows on
proprietary software if you wish. The fact that most people who are on sport free software
uh is by the way. But yes, he does have a point and and that is why I use um not key pass
but um let me say I'll just look over on my voice computer while Dave reads the next comment.
There aren't any more comments again. That's it. That was the last one. Key pass x
k e p s s x is an equivalent piece of software that is completely open and you can use that.
So there you go. That's another piece of news. What do we have? Sure not, Dave.
We have uh we have three email emails to look at and that's uh that's it really. Do you want to go
through? Yep. Well the first one was on 15th August was me saying uh um help with tags and
summaries asking people if they would be prepared to join in with the uh the process of adding tags
and summaries to shows and I'd created a script which um summarizes all of the uh the missing
tags and summaries all the shows that need them and uh there's a web page that's mentioned in
this um message and there's a web uh there's an email address I mean um which to which you can send
updates and the email describe the format that we needed in the um in the email message. It's
very simple it's just a tag show and the show number summary colon and the summary and tags
colon followed by a list of tags you just send that in this software which can um check it and uh
and put it into the database. So that would be great but I don't think anybody's had a chance to
do that yet. Yeah I was people want to contribute to this just uh gives a little bit give us a
shout tags at hyperbubblegradio.org and uh as I don't know maybe we could set up a I don't know
feed or something a way that you could every day get another show um that we need shows for
rots. Okay yeah yeah it would be nice if people could uh if you're want to listen to shows you could
download uh today's episode of hbr and an archive one from the archive and listen to
those and send us in show notes that would be fantastic. And john uh Kevin O'Brien sent a
mail to the uh say about john kulp um wanting to contribute to the league office so show and he
says that's absolutely fine and anybody who wishes to do that can and john replied of course saying
that he's done thanking him for that and that he's also done some uh shows and the privacy and
security series. And the last uh email was one that you sent Ken which was uh uh entitled do you
owe me a show um where you pointed out that we're running short of shows and uh making a request
for the contributions which I think was about a certain amount of uh response but um could certainly
do with a lot more I think. Yeah exactly and I think I've already ran to this long enough about
that but uh yeah it's uh I mean then the hpour website if you go to the calendar page you'll see
that they you know we track the number of shows and stuff in the list uh but there's also a few
things that I personally track to know if the health of hbr is um you know how they health of hbr
itself is going. So we've got the next free slot which is the red line and that's kind of the one
people tends to watch quite a lot and that jumps around a lot because uh we leaves certain you know
of a our horse who's contributing a lot leaves tends to leave spaces for other people to come in
so when the slats get filled jumps from you know one day to the next free slot to 20 days or
something like that um and then the shows and the queue is one that I don't particularly pay that
much attention to so quite often I've quite a lot of shows in but we still have gaps in the queue
so you see quite a bit of difference but the one that tells me about the health of hbr as uh
as a project is the number of holes we have that in the queue and from its peak we've had 20 people
in the queue down and that goes down quite a lot it's gone down to under three at one stage
um earlier on this year and uh it's it's between ten and five mostly and that's not good we need
we need to get that up that should be up at around a hundred people in the queue you know
yeah yeah yeah i i i tend to look at the red one and now you point out the the green line it's
um it's a little worrying isn't it yeah it is it's um it's you know people contribute um you
have regulars who come in and contribute quite a lot and but eventually you know live catches up
with all of us and we we're lucky now that there are several people that are regularly contributing
shows so nobody's noticed in that that much but it's five or ten people that are contributing shows
that's why I love to see um people coming in with new shows uh all-time
hosts returning doing their one slot a year that's exactly what we want because we've
to be honest if everybody decided in the morning everybody was listening to this
decided okay i'm going to do my show and shut this guy up and submitted the shows
you know we would have four or five years of shows in the queue and you know you know we'd be
spotted for riches but the fact of matter is it's a very very tiny percentage of people keeping
this project alive so we don't ask for contributions although in fairness if you wanted a good deal
and hosting go to an honest host.com um see what i did there Dave see what i did there
all done um okay so but let's skip over that we'll have
board people to that about that there was one other thing there's something up with my email or
the email on the server which John is looking um uh not John John Josh Josh yeah our long suffering
actual administrator owner and contributor patron um who is looking at the issue and it was about
accessibility on the HBR website now i have added as an emergency measure um the accessibility
dot php which gives you a list of all the links that are in the in the header and the footer
uh without any CSS attached so that um people at least can get to a page so this is
bird by the fact that Mike Ray has been uh going to the website and as you as you mentioned in his
comments um that he is uh he's basically a blind user so um obviously he can't see what we're
trying to do because you know he's hovering over the thing and it allows the makes the noise and
if it doesn't make a noise he can't quote air quotes see it or hear it the text to speech doesn't
work so basically i need to get my uh finger out and boot up a machine that has got 64 bit Linux so
that i can run chiscale on it and uh do the text to speech stuff but unfortunately i'm really
in the middle of the actual rebuild of the the backroom here and i have no machine in which to put
it on as yet i'm going to actually know that i think that i'll try that new laptop from work
and see if i can uh i can boot it up with that she might be no harm to run chiscale as a generally
okay by the bite by the bite stop focus focus okay um so what i want is people to help us out here
also if you're running macOS x uh windows linux um android bsd enable your accessibility functions
go to the website site users obviously are people who have the ability to use at least some vision
go tell me what is what you what you're able to what works what doesn't work if you want for
reference go you can go to the accessibility.php page and that is what should be in the in the main
links so if your reader is not working then that is the reason why so um please go have a look
at that and uh those of you who could also tell us what is wrong with the css that would make
it worth better please do so if you have any uh suggestions about general ways of making the website
better please do so most of the website is still um on the it's it's all not moved over to the public
site but that's something that we would do if we ever need to touch a page that page get moved
gets moved out to they uh to the main site so the more stuff that you can fix the more
the more open you're making hpure. Anything else Steve? I don't think so and i think we've covered a lot
so i think that's uh that's about it um the the issue you alluded to was the the hpr list went through
slight hiatus and messages weren't getting out. Josh thinks he's he's got it fixed now but i don't
think we've sent any nothing's come through the list since then so uh just between you and me we need
to check that the list is working but uh i'm not 100% sure that the problem isn't on my side either
because i'm now getting double emails back from stuff i send out on all the stuff so it can be an issue
on my side perhaps as well okay but as i say i'm like in the middle of rebuilding out here so it's
a bit messy everything's uh nothing's nothing's where it should be Dave nothing's where it should be
well i'll send a message to the list and just check to see how it how it goes through um
just uh just to check that it's it's not down to you or something with going on you go to
maybe we mentioned in the show um about the markdown thing so maybe you might want to ask that's
what people's thoughts are on how to get uh you know what you see is what you get and how to get
the show notes to hpr in the format that people want to send it in but maintaining the formatting
that they want so that would be a good one to actually yeah i'll get that sorted out for
tomorrow think if i can good all right that's everything as far as i'm concerned okay this show
has gone on now for a long time so let us stop and remember to support free software
no wrong person um yes tuned in tomorrow for another exciting episode of
hacker public radio join us now and share the software
you've been listening to hacker public radio at hackerpublicradio.org
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an hpr listener like yourself
if you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is hacker public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonomicum computer club and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have
comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record
a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise status today's show is released on the creative
comments attribution share a light 3.0 license
