Episode: 1674
Title: HPR1674: 2014-2015 New Year Show Part 1 of 8
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1674/hpr1674.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 07:02:47

---

This is HPR episode 1674 entitled New Year Show Part 1 on 8.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and is about 240 minutes long.
The summer is the first 4 hours of the 2014-2015 New Year show.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Anastos.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15, better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Anastos.com.
Right on, well thanks man.
I can't stay long.
I have to go to work actually, but I wanted to stop in and say hello to whoever was here
and share everybody happy New Year and I should be back.
Absolutely everyone's going to start being unshortly so it shouldn't be a problem when we
know with the first ones here.
Yeah well we're just a minute off from the first happy New Year official one I believe.
The first I believe it's the first one.
What's that?
It must be can't be too far away from class.
Oh I don't know it's I think it's just listed as etc and GMT minus 14 and GMT plus 14
on my world's clock, I'm not exactly sure who it is.
I'd like to share them all on some, we can use face.
Would they somewhere around here I'd say?
Well I don't know my list, it's Christmas Island.
Oh yeah they will, they're all somewhere.
Well right on here comes in two seconds or none seconds.
Happy New Year Christmas Island.
Happy New Year.
Howdy folks this is 5150 for HPR Public Radio.
Here to kick off our end of 2014 and welcome to 2015 New Year's Extravaganza.
For the next 26 and 9 hours we will be welcoming each new times up into the new year as we
welcome old friends, new tech, music, movies, sci-fi, free software, food and free welcome
into a new and powerful generation.
We welcome guests inside and the free flowing exchange ideas.
As the New Year dawns we welcome Christmas Island, Kirovati and Samoa, Kirovati, Apia
and other locations into the new year.
At this time we'd like to welcome the other HPR Public Radio participants into the channel.
Holy smokes 5150 you write that yourself that was excellent.
Well done my friend.
Well since I did, I've misplaced my mumble with it and I have to go fuck it.
Ha ha, well I'm Pokey and unfortunately I got it out in just a couple of minutes but
I wanted to be here at the kickoff and I'll come back after working about eight or ten
hours.
Or it sounds like from there Pokey.
So covert two, my good buddy has things north of the border.
Got to tell you since last night.
Well yeah it's tis this season.
Also Marcus Baird is here, it's not Marcus.
That's correct.
And it's pouring with rain and it's actually a wet year's eve here in New Zealand and
it's also a special summer.
So we've actually not having a very good summer at the moment.
But it's okay.
You have to be positive about these things don't you?
It's also okay because you're New Zealand and one of more beautiful places to live than
that.
Excellent.
That appears to be all the participants who are not muted.
The four of us.
But yeah I don't know about you guys but I'm thrilled to be here and thrilled that HBR pulled
it together.
Again, this is unprecedented.
It's outstanding.
Yeah.
Sorry.
There's a bit of a leg and me being in New Zealand so sorry if I dropped.
I think Valparo's going to join us from Scotland shortly.
I think he, I'm not sure if he's idle but I was talking to him earlier and I think
there might be some people coming in at some certain times.
Yeah.
Pretty sure.
Big man was going to join us.
In fact, I may pop down there to the lounge and see if they want to come in.
Your audio just got a bit better there, 50 on 50.
You're still, it sounds like you're, you're way far from your mic and potted up too high.
I think it's what might be going on.
But that's just a guess.
Well, I just went back in a little bit, how's that?
It's getting better.
It's getting less echoey, but no, it's cool.
So anyway, I just wanted to say happy New Year's to you guys and have a great day and
I'm going to, I'm going to head out and I'm going to be back in a bit.
But thanks everyone for, for showing up and being there for me to say happy New Year's
too.
Well, it's not happy New Year yet, Pokey, but we'll see you in about ten.
Oh, I know what it is, I'm not here in my audio to my head, so I'm here to hear the PC
speaker.
It's just typical, you 50.
You guys will hear radio voices, I'm not a shocking radio voice, I don't do the deep
radio voice.
No, no, you're fine when, until you get excited and talk too fast for anybody to understand,
you sound good.
I think Kiwi's just talk fast anyway for Americans, I think.
I've tried talk slower.
There you go.
I heard, I heard a Kiwi on another podcast yesterday and he did not talk fast and I wonder
if maybe he's just trained himself to talk slower so we could all understand him.
I think it depends on what part of the country you come from.
I think the people from all over the world and above, they do tend to speak a little bit
slower.
It's also how used you are to the New Zealand accent as well.
Hello, I'm Poki, don't talk, tell Marcus to talk slower, we'll talk for a 25 hour
after show.
I think I'll see you for about 15 hours of it last time, plus we wait for another five
on topic after you guys finished.
I went to bed and woke back up and people were still talking.
That was quite a big cry last year, hopefully everyone comes back.
If that's still talking to me, I think I'll annoy a few of them this year.
Alright guys, well, that's it for me for a bit anyway, so take it easy, good luck and have a great time.
We'll see you, Poki, have fun.
Yeah, no response down there from what I've forgotten.
It's harding, I've been a script record if I jump.
Jump rooms, so those guys don't have to be here in me, so I'm assuming they're probably
away from their microphones.
Something's wrong with your mic, dude.
Still, I finally got where I'm not where I can do you in my head, sir.
Well, that's good.
It's just, I don't know, it's really hissing and feedbacking.
What quality settings you're on.
All the way to the top.
Yeah, I've put the quality settings down a bit, I don't really change that too much.
I find that if you're too up too much or fill around with the settings that sometimes
it could be a bit orki.
That's probably have really flashy lights, so you probably don't need to do that.
Oh, yeah.
I've upgraded one light from last year.
I've actually bought it.
I've been from like $20 a week, came one to a speaker.
I speak to $70 on this one, New Zealand, so it should be a bit more advanced.
Yeah, unfortunately I lost a good equipment, but this is a fairly expensive headset.
I've never had very good luck with it.
I think it's a better luck with my analog with it.
People complain about that.
Every system sounds better on the phone, but it's just for you till right now I thought
it would be better to be on the PC.
I'd never have too much trouble with the mic.
I do find though, if you do, as I see it, I think some people play around with settings
and stuff and sometimes they can overthink it.
I never ever think things.
That's part reasonable.
It's community don't like me too much at the moment.
But no, I very much don't overthink things, and I just leave it on the phone and I'll
wait and hope for the best.
I've put the coffee back where they were before.
It's part about, oh, I've got all kinds of bandwidth now.
I can set everything to high.
That makes a bit of difference.
It's probably this head that's just a piece of junk.
Also, I'm in a square room, so everything is going to tend to echo.
I'm in a square room as well, actually.
I've actually got door open outside, so.
I don't know.
Some people are different with their sound.
It's very hard to get the sound just right on microphones.
It sounds more like you just need to stick a sock over the end of it now.
Oh, like a hash filter.
Yeah, stuff like that might help.
As you unbuying a laptop, so you don't need to get out.
I'm spending $1,000 on laptop.
This is about what 600 bucks American.
I'm going to go on by trying to IC7 8G RAM laptop.
I think we've got one mind.
I don't want to buy.
What do you guys recommend?
Just eight gigs of RAM?
Yeah, well, it's required speeds up here for our laptop.
So I was having a conversation with Valpro.
Yeah, he's from Scotland.
I have got this top at the moment, but these tops have just gone out of fashion yet.
It's really hard to actually even vulnerable at a desktop now.
The parts are too expensive, like the stood normal graphics card or motherboard.
It's too expensive now.
It's cheaper to get you just go get you $6,700 laptop.
So I am seriously considering getting a...
There's actually people which I'm looking at, which is $1,000,
but it's gone over the graphics card and it's got 8G RAM and IC7 processor,
which will get a lot better fit in a desktop that I've got at the moment.
So yeah, I don't need a lot of RAM.
It's more the processor speed.
If you do a lot of videos,
it tends to be the processor speed that you tend to need.
Which I'm struggling with.
Who would you want to go more for an AMD since you're doing a video?
The AMD's are cheaper.
I've heard bad things from AMD,
and I don't really understand what the AMD processors are.
I've never heard of AMD before.
It's quite hard to work out what's what.
In the laptop market.
I've never liked the desktop.
I know that this is what...
If this is my understanding what I'm going,
you guys can give me a link about what I'm looking at.
I've found it.
How is that?
Is that any better?
Much better.
You're very filtered and very quiet.
I've never seen anything like this before.
You're very filtered and very quiet.
You know what happened.
When I went to bed for a few hours,
I left Fumble running,
and I left Pulse Audio Volume Control running,
but I turned the toggle off on the headset.
It's rechargeable.
I didn't want it to run down.
And when I came back,
of course, since it had been turned off,
Pulse Audio Volume Controls had reset everything
to the internal speaker
and internal microphone on the PC.
So that's what...
When you first heard me talking,
I was just shouting into the built-in microphone on the PC.
Well, you probably need to raise your audio up.
You're mic volume up.
Did you say I'm not a speeder?
Yeah, I turned the amp down
and you guys said I was blasting you out over there.
So let me go back and do it,
could it back where it was?
At this top, still quite cheap in the state, I realize.
You want to build one like that, it's quite cheap.
I'm in good old Canadian,
but the last desktop I built was a HTPC
about two years ago,
and not counting the hard drives.
I spent $450 on it.
So there'd be about what I speak.
It's all normalised two years ago,
so I spent about 800 bucks.
This is about $60,000, I think.
But I didn't get a very good CPU.
I got the Intel...
I got the Intel chip before the i3, right?
So that's not that powerful,
but I did get 8G RAM.
I got a low in the video graphics card.
I didn't get a lot of what I wanted.
But as I see,
that's just quite expensive over here.
Well, I got Intel Atom.
I run a family system.
And it's the Atom D520,
which is like a 1-6 GHz dual-core Atom.
And then I got 4G RAM,
and Nvidia Atom for graphics.
Yeah, see, I got...
I went to the RAM, I went to the 8G,
but I think I should probably just go...
At least I've got an i5.
All the new things.
So, particularly I've probably staffed up here.
And the prices of...
I rock with it for a part since...
I see it's just cheaper to get a laptop.
But I see what happens.
I mean, I'm doing a course this year.
I'm doing a graphic design course this year.
I'm out work at the moment.
So I thought I'd go and do a six-month course.
And I need a laptop for that.
So, one's...
That's why it's actually looking at the spot on the laptop.
Yeah, I've been looking at some of the YouTube reviews
and on this on the graphics.
And it's not too bad.
So, I think I'll do the crime.
Well, unless you're building a game in PC
or silent one like Cobra was talking about,
at least over here,
you just can't build yourself a PC as cheap as you can go out
and buy one from Dell or HP or whatever.
Well, that's HP.
No, I think it's HP.
There's a couple of cheaper ones that I've got.
I might just actually order this one online.
I normally don't do that.
But I might actually go and just pay for it cash
and just get it online.
But I normally don't have that sort of cash,
but I do for this.
And I'm just thinking,
I just want something that's going to last me four or five years.
There are all the touch screens coming in here.
So, you've got touch screen, you know,
it's computers for about two grand.
So, they're getting rid of all their old stock.
What I'm worried about is what happens next year
when they're all touch screens.
And then you can't, you know,
the cheapest computer you're going to be able to get around here
for laptops is going to be 1200 bucks.
And that's sort of what I'm taking.
I'm just going to get one of these now.
And they'll last me for a while.
So, I don't need a touch screen.
Do you need a CD-Rom drive?
Not really, no.
I haven't used my CD-Rom drive.
I just use the flash drive.
I need anything.
Anything that needs USB ports, these are.
Well, if you don't need that,
I'd look into ultrabooks.
You'll wind up saving a couple bucks,
and it'll be lighter.
And generally,
your battery will last longer.
And if you replace the hard drive with a SSD,
you've got a huge performance upgrade.
Yeah, actually,
I think these guys have got ultrabooks.
They're even cheaper than they've actually got.
Yeah, I get confused with the Chromebooks,
ultrabooks, and everything else,
like new netbooks.
I mean, I'm not saying that I haven't actually spent a little time
around laptops.
I'm more a desktop type guy.
So, I've always had desktops.
So, no parts quite well,
but when it comes to laptops,
I'm pretty much a no, you know.
All right.
Well, let me give you some naming conventions really quick.
You know what the Acer Aspire one is, right?
Yeah, I do do that.
All right.
That's a netbook.
Everything that doesn't have a CD-ROM drive is a netbook,
but for marketing purposes,
I think it was MicroShift.
MicroShift decided to sell a more expensive license
to computers without CD-ROM drives.
And they had to call them ultrabooks,
not netbooks.
It could cause a license thing.
And anything that has a screen that's larger than 10.1 inches
and a keyboard is an ultrabook.
Anything smaller than that's a netbook.
So, that's a terminology for there.
I had no idea on that.
I was wondering,
this is one of those things you don't really look at.
Oh, Brandy might want to play around with.
Asus, Acer, and Lenovo.
I do like the Acer laptops.
And she, they've got a couple of Aces to see on.
I've got...
I've got an Acer V7 series.
And I've only got an i5 in mine,
I get really decent battery life out of it.
It's actually what I'm on right now.
I replaced the 500 gig hard drive with a 120 gig SSD.
And it came with another 24 gig SSD on the mini PCI slot.
I think that's what it is.
And I just use that for my OS booting and other SSD for quick storage.
Net doesn't look too bad.
Actually, I just looked at what...
I mean, there's three or four different storage here,
but I'm not stopping.
They've pretty much all got the same stuff.
That one.
Actually, I just, when you see that,
she looks so quite good.
I can upgrade the RAM and net for a hundred bucks.
Get a lot cheaper, actually, than the one I mentioned.
But there was looking at it.
Hey, guys, it looks like kids got something he wants to say
and announce.
So, he wants a moment of quietness from us.
We've already did it at the top of the hour.
The greetings to the time zone.
I'm not sure what you want.
Other than we do want to mention DistroWatch Weekly,
is looking for a new podcaster to do that podcast.
Also, if anybody is listening later in the day,
if you can help me out,
I sign up to pick up our slots for HP or volunteer.
Basically, your only debees are going to be to be in the channel
and listen and make sure that either the etherpad
or my schedule that what's being talked about
is updated to form shownuts.
So, I'm trying to think what else Ken might have been talking about
because the, oh, 10-15, yes,
greeting to Chatham Islands and New Zealand.
I'm sorry, I missed that one, Ken.
New Zealand store about 4-1.
I was looking right at it.
I was looking at it and said, no,
it's not next until the top of the hour,
but then there is.
So, what part of that of New Zealand would that be,
Marcus, that's 15 minutes off everybody else?
Uh, Chatham Islands, is it?
That's what it says.
Chatham Islands is part of New Zealand.
Uh, yes, definitely.
Okay, well, welcome five minutes late to the New York Chatham Islands.
Good luck, 50.
Are you screwing it up?
How do we stuff that?
Well, actually, I'm not sure we,
we, Chatham Islands, they're quite,
quite a way to the, um,
uh, Easter less.
So, I'm not sure how far out they actually would be.
So, I'm going to take this opportunity to make some coffee.
So, that's interesting.
I can almost understand being 30 minutes off,
but what's the point being 15 minutes off everybody else?
I have no idea.
Look in the muffin cup.
Yeah.
Is he speaking?
I was honest.
Apparently, 680 kilometers away from New Zealand.
So, they probably, he'd do either of the times of difference going on.
Yeah, but even so, you,
you would think if they're, you know,
if they're a trading partner or whoever they're doing business with,
uh, you know, routine, routine,
repeatedly is mainland New Zealand for one of a better,
uh, term.
I would, I would just think that would just
have messed up your communication.
Of course, probably it's been hundreds of years like that.
And they're probably a little stubborn about changing.
You know, apparently that thing, um, what to pay you?
Apparently they've been,
they part of these illnesses.
1842.
You go.
And the Chitano Islands are made up of 10 different islands.
I hope that this is quite amazing.
Yeah.
Well, that's interesting.
Uh, well, this is coming up on the New Year show before, uh,
it's kind of, it's kind of like daylight settings time.
A lot of people want to abandon that.
And, uh, I'm sort of coming around to this idea that maybe
we should all be on one time zone and then everybody should adjust
for when their day starts so that we don't have to do all these,
uh, mental gymnastics talking to each other across the globe.
Uh, the daylight savings thing is annoying.
When we change, Australia hasn't changed.
And they have two or three time zones over there.
And then America, you're talking to people in America.
And their time zone hasn't changed.
And then two or three weeks later, it does change.
You know, one change, then you know, one changes again.
It's like really freaking confusing.
Really difficult trying to work out the time.
What time it is in the US is most days.
If you've just had, um, this year, um, you know,
your time zone has just changed by their four little back.
I know four, uh, Peter six to four.
He never knows what time it is when,
when the, uh, time zones change.
I have to say trouble with Rupp as well.
Like, um, I talked to Velcro, but he's down in the lounge.
And he's a Scotland.
And they're exactly doing ours behind us.
But when they have dealt savings, they go to 12.
And then a week later, we go up as well.
And then what's we losing now? Weaver.
And then it comes back to 11 hours.
That's quite confusing.
We even know what some, you know, with it's one hour,
living hours or 13 hours after time.
It's, you know, it's quite hard to work out.
Um, I talked to quite a few people who can know you.
And that really had to work out the time zones.
Um, you guys have quite a few people in quite a few time zones.
Can I, you don't you?
Yeah, there's a ton up here.
We've got at least one more we do,
because you stick out farther to the east.
Uh, there's at least two more further to the east,
because there's, uh, there's the one I'm in,
which is Atlantic time.
And then there's one that's further over.
And that's, it's only over by 30 minutes.
And that's Newfoundland and Labrador.
Or the rock, because people call it around here.
What's your, um, I say, I wish I'm to get your eye.
I say, are you on free note or are you on,
and I'm one of the other citizens?
I'm on free note.
I can go.
Yeah.
Also, time in the States at the moment.
It's quite early in the morning in that.
It has like five, thirty.
Okay.
Eastern.
Yeah, four, pretty central.
We, do we keep any Australians in here last, um, last time?
Is that two hours behind us?
And if you're in peace,
there are actually five hours behind us.
So, uh, I noticed last year,
that's the last time you guys were doing this,
like they tend to come in about three or four hours later,
after I showed up.
Oh, I'm sure Peter's 64 will be kicking around.
Yeah.
And I wouldn't be surprised to see, uh,
crayon or, uh, some of the rest of them, uh, show up.
Well, I don't know.
I help crayon still, but I keep seeing him on IRC.
I haven't talked to him in over a year.
Yeah.
I think I've done the IRC much this year.
I've been on that out.
I really haven't been paying a much attention to any of the IRC channels.
Yes.
Yeah, I've been pretty good with IRC this year.
I think I logged in four times, including the New Year's show.
Well, that's why we're so excited to see you, Cobra.
Quit pulling my leg.
So, I thought we were the name change to this year.
You know, I'm just trying to find a brand.
It's really hard to come up with something to be proactive about.
And that's pretty much my trouble.
I just get frustrated trying to talk about one thing.
It's like to talk about everything.
Well, maybe you should do that because you seem to start a lot of projects.
And a couple weeks later, it morphs into something else.
Yeah.
I think I've just got to many ideas.
It's really hard.
I have something going on.
Then I want to do tick.
I want to talk about sci-fi shows.
And then I want to do something else.
I can't really be the tick guy or whatever I am at the time.
If I'm talking about sci-fi shows, so I change my name.
And then I get frustrated with that.
I don't know.
It's not really after a following.
It's always something to do for me.
I think that's what people need to realize.
It's not like I'm trying to get 20,000 subscribers into a drama show on Prick and YouTube.
Well, pick a name.
Stick with it.
Yeah.
So, you're going to talk about everything.
Yeah.
Well, it's really well wanted to talk about it.
Well, look at Linux outlaws.
We got tired of being pigeon-holed where, you know,
oh, if a Linux store comes up this week, we have to talk about it.
They're going to do something else.
Where if they want to talk about Linux, they'll do that.
I guess maybe talk about politics and media and all that sort of stuff, too.
So, though, I don't know.
It never seemed to stop them before.
It certainly doesn't stop tilts from not talking about Linux.
So, you know, I don't why change the name of the show.
But I'm going to be interested to see what they come up with.
Yeah.
I mean, I mean, I don't know Chris Fisher has done a lot of different shows.
Like, I'm glad.
I think Angel Angel is doing one now called woman's take or something.
And I've popped in near occasionally, but I'm still welcome near, I think.
No, I haven't.
I think he's just done a lot of different shows with different titles.
There's different ways of doing it.
But I don't want to really want to create 10 different channels to do different topics.
You know, I think you should just be allowed to talk about what you want to talk about.
At least, you guys being heck-a-pup, are you?
Are you really just talking about anything?
There you go.
Just put all your shows on the HPR.
Haha.
Might have to stay hanging out in your chat room, anyway.
No, you don't get to be that.
Well, I mean, that's a great thing about HPR.
You don't have to do a weekly show or a bi-weekly show.
If you wanted to do six episodes a year or something like that, then it's just fine.
And you don't have to worry about arranging the hosting and finding an audience and all that kind of stuff.
So, you know, it's the perfect fit for just so many people out there.
Yeah, see, I've thought about that too.
Like I'm alone a little bit.
It's really hard to get into that niche group and it should be welcoming a group.
You know, I feel, you know, but also to a lot of people just talk about one specific topic.
I think I've got better though over the last 12 months.
I think I'm getting to the point where I actually could be in a podcast and do it okay without saying I'm a lot which I'm trying to stop.
And be a bit funny and be that funny guy on the podcast that doesn't have that radio voice, but still gets a point across.
So, I don't know, it's just a matter of, you know, finding that niche.
I mean, I'd love to do something with someone.
It's just a matter of finding that right fit, really.
Oh yeah, it's a lot easier, I think, to announce your ideas of someone.
Than to just sit there and talk in the spectrum by yourself.
I started watching, um, the last shit was one show I liked this year.
And there's this guy doing a podcast on the last shit in the TV show.
And I sort of thought, well, if he had someone to do that with, he'd be really good.
It's really, I'm saying it again, but it's really hard to actually do that on your own and bounce ideas when you're actually talking to yourself.
It's quite hard to actually do that.
So, it's pretty much what I haven't actually done a podcast.
Because, um, let's say I'm looking.
It's so frustrating to do it next.
You know what, what your problems are when you're online, you know, being recorded.
It's really hard to stop doing those little, in the windows that happen.
Thanks, Cobra.
Yeah, it's, oh, well, that's an interesting concept.
But, uh, you got to hope the show what you're doing last the entire season.
And you got to keep your fingers crossed.
It doesn't that it gets a second season that that's the trouble.
Show like last ship.
I think would be, you know, when you actually have an actual naval vessel and all that kind of stuff.
Because I assume that's probably an active duty naval vessel.
Whoever they do outside shots, they've got to work around the crew and all that.
Uh, probably these days, the interiors are, uh, probably all done Hollywood.
I know if you ever get the, uh, the DVD, the five countdown, uh, the, you know,
the current one that's out that has the extra stuff on it talks, you know,
it's really fascinating how they did it.
But everything was, what was about, you know, no, the, the emits is not going to take time off active duty to work around you.
Movie people, you know, we'll, we'll, we'll give you some time.
But you're going to be here on the ship as it's carrying out its mission to work around our schedule.
And all the stuff they had, they had to, uh, do to make that happen and lighting, you know,
because it's not like they could take out a wall and put in put lights where they needed to.
So they're doing all kinds of different little tricks to get that movie shot.
Yeah, that's, it's been interesting me to all the behind the scene stuff.
I've been really keen to this year, like, um, the video editing, uh, how they do it,
how the camera angles, all that sort of stuff.
If I, um, watch a movie now, I'm watching how they're doing it.
I'm not really watching the script or what's happening.
I'm seeing where the scary bits are coming in and there's a horror movie and, you know,
it's what cameras they're using.
I think of this learning a lot more about how to do that sort of stuff.
And, and that's why I sort of noticed a lot more things now.
So I guess I'm just leaning as I go along.
I do a great, I actually loved that baby.
I was about 17 or 17 when that baby came out.
It's, it's, it's what lights hatey.
Wasn't it?
To find a countdown, I can't remember.
Yeah, something like that.
I was a little younger when, when I started.
I saw it originally in the theater when it came out.
That was one of my dad's favorite movies he'd always asked me to put that one in.
Yeah, it's one of the, it's really good.
If it's one of the movie rights, the one where the aircraft carrier goes back in time
to where we're two, isn't it?
I think is that the right one?
Yeah, that's the one.
And it's, it's the, you know, they have to make a decision
whether or not they're going to intercede in the attack on Pearl Harbor.
I thought it was really well done.
They had a perfect script, that movie.
Just, and they did it really well as well.
The issue with the planes being shot down all that sort of stuff.
I thought it was really well done movie.
Been a little twisted at the end.
Oh, yeah, that, well, that makes the whole movie is, is what happens at the end.
Oh, speaking of time travel movies, there's a, um,
Ladano de Kepero, it's done one, which is really, really interesting.
There's lots of paradoxes in the whole thing.
So I can't remember what it's called though.
But, um, basically, he, he, he goes back in time.
Um, he's a time travel, he tries to stop what he just did.
It's a terrorist attack setting.
He goes back in time.
Um, he makes him, himself, who's actually a female.
So he has, apparently they have a, he has a sex change operation or something in the seven days.
Um, and then he makes himself a bit older.
And, um, the guy's back in time, it goes bored in time again.
And then he, he introduces himself to the, um, to, to his own,
to himself, it's really confusing.
You just have to watch it.
It's also paradoxes though.
Hmm, that's, I've never heard of that one.
The other day I caught on cable, uh, source code, which I'd been wanting to watch though.
I don't know what that movie has to do with writing code.
But it's the one where the, uh, you know, you, you,
you have a guy disabled and intact and basically is only his brain still functioned,
but he finds out as he gets, he gets, uh, farther into it.
I think of seeing it.
It's 2011, I believe.
So it's got his, he's out in there.
Oh, yeah, it's a couple of years old, as I said,
it's up on free cable now.
But, uh, sort of a groundhog day thing.
And they, they want him just to be, uh, to tell him, you know, who the terrorist is.
And they say, you know, you can't, you can't save these people.
You can't affect anything.
All we want to know is, uh, who, who the terrorist was.
It turns out to be just some crazy guy, not many, uh, and I government group.
But, uh, he finds that out and then he, you know, in the, uh,
well, I had to make spoiler for anyone, but it's, it's a fairly old movie.
I mean, at the end of the movie, uh, they indicate, get, you know,
yes, there is one timeline and he was able to, you know,
save the people and continue on in this body that he jumped into.
Of course, they'll see what happens to the guy he jumped into.
I guess he was dead, uh, dead anyway.
But, uh, so, you know, see, it's, that seems sort of like a more mainstream,
uh, version of the movie you're talking about, Marcus.
I think a lot of American audiences would have a problem with, uh,
I'm traveling, uh, uh, uh, sex change.
Yeah, so I'm asked about you.
Don't you know what's actually going on in that movie that the Kepio won until the end?
So you wouldn't actually know what was happening,
because everyone thinks they're different people that he's actually meeting,
uh, not himself.
Well, I happens to be a fire and he has a, uh,
um, it's some time in his lifetime when he's actually going back in time,
trying to stop this curiosity and you get spooked.
This guy's trying, um, he's basically trying to, like, piss its, is your rig?
So you neither actually know what version of himself you're actually going through.
Uh, it's quite interesting how they've actually done it.
I actually thought it was a quite well done movie,
because it's not like you actually know what's going on right until the end.
Of course, American audiences don't seem to have any trouble with, uh,
people slipping into, uh, 11-foot tall blue people.
Yeah, pretty much.
Trying to quite like them, actually.
So yeah, I know exactly what you mean.
Well, I did find out in my, uh, in my schedule,
I've got, oh, and if I type something into a cell,
if I don't hit enter eventually, it goes away on me.
So, sorry, Ken, this is a little bit of show now.
It's off of you if I can't was erected here.
Um, can I land out the posters up the toilet?
The live feed?
I just don't notice on your website, you've got a live feed of it going.
Are you guys like having me pressing out?
Yeah.
I think you're a little late, buddy.
Was that from last year's live?
No, I already did it.
Okay.
But I'm sure you have more people following you than I do,
so have that or...
Yeah, I've got about 1,400, I think.
I mean, actually hanging out on Twitter more than I have on YouTube
and go plus lately.
I've been on Twitter more only because Clat 2 is finally succumbed
to the joys of social networking.
There's so many different social networks, I mean,
I've actually been having trouble trying to keep up with
that's another reason I get frustrated.
Like Facebook and Google Class and Twitter,
you've got a post, you've got five different places.
It's like, it's frustrating.
And blogger, you know, you get an all- I mean, I'm a blogger,
but you get in the way with all the different places you go post.
Yeah.
I'm learning Reddit and Twitter and Facebook.
I haven't heard of that last one.
Facebook.
Facebook or Facebook.
Yeah.
For me, I stay away from Reddit because I just don't want to learn
on how to do it.
Lincoln, actually, I've got until this year.
I've got a few followers on Lincoln.
I think I have more followers on Lincoln than I do on Twitter.
I've only just gone to Lincoln.
I find all the social networks have a trick.
And you can't wait to people to arrive.
You've got to really just figure out what trick is.
Once you figure out the trick is then you start getting a lot of followers.
Like some Twitter will see to follow a lot of people once.
And then they follow you back and you get a lot of followers.
But Google Class, you sort of have to add people with circles.
That's a bit confusing.
You know, it's in the same circle, right?
So it does get caught.
The Facebooks are different again.
And Lincoln's different again.
It's very, it gets very hard sometimes.
I've only used Facebook for the past years for the chat.
And if I put the chat in through Biddlebee and access that through RSSI, same with Twitter.
I do like Twitter as a social network.
It's just a lot easier to block people that are annoying you.
I mean, especially in Spain, all the people trying to sell their followers and stuff.
I just block those people straight away.
I do find, if someone's annoying you,
you find the YouTube people that annoy you and comments,
don't tend to go after you on Twitter because they just don't know how to use it.
But it can't be bothered posting it.
It's just so different to them.
It's an alien.
They're negative skill of how many people are following you so they don't bother posting it.
I think they realize that everyone can see your post at post, isn't it?
All right.
Just started to figure out the hashtag.
So I've been a bit slow in the hashtags.
But it's quite interesting how the hashtags work on Twitter.
And that's the key with Twitter.
You can get everyone following a hashtag.
That's how it works.
And you can get, you know, like a bug with a radio on a hashtag.
And everyone starts following a hashtag.
And you get a lot of people actually watching that thing.
Yeah, I just tagged it as hashtag HBR.
I like how well I do that as well.
So HBR?
Yeah, that's what I did.
But I don't know if there's an official one or not.
Yeah, probably isn't.
I don't know.
It's HBR.
Nothing's official.
Yeah, I don't know why people get caught up in all the official stuff.
I'm very on the worm sort of piece.
And I do things on the worm.
I don't like keeping to a schedule.
And, you know, you guys tend to be the same.
I don't like keeping to a specific schedule or when you do things.
I don't like keeping to a specific topic.
Just like to do things on one.
I don't like having a script.
I can't script.
It's like boring.
I hate the news.
You know, I don't like the news too actually.
Like, like, there's been nothing but bad news on it.
No, I hate the news in general.
I hear it from so many other outlets.
I don't need to hear it on my techie podcast.
Yeah, I keep like that too.
I find that the same websites have the same blogs on every website as well.
Which is annoying.
And the news, people are standing up below the Twitter feeds now.
They're too lazy to go to fun here on news story.
So they're going to find the Twitter feed.
Cam.com gets Twitter to hear all the fricking time.
It's unbelievable.
Cam.com does this on Twitter.
It needs to break a news story.
What happens in your neck of the words?
Yeah.
He was just on, he was on breaking news the other day.
Not breaking news, but the main news.
And he went with the price data and the next box thing.
Well, when I first moved up to Canada here,
I was kind of ostracized for knowing so little about another country
while the Canadians around here knew tons about my country
and knew a lot about where I was from.
And I knew very little about them.
Like, most of them could name all 56.
And I couldn't name all, what, 14 provinces.
I had no clue.
And I've discovered the reason for that since I've been here.
Nothing happens here.
It's the same here.
It's the same here.
There's not, you know, four or five people
getting shot stabbed or murdered every week.
There's one every, you know, week or two.
Big, a really big news as a traffic accident and down.
Yeah, it's pretty much what it is today.
I think if I go and look at the main headlines,
it's pretty much a traffic accident.
Oh, there's a helicopter saving someone from the ocean.
There you go.
They're talking about the plane crash.
There's a football game on, soccer team on.
And that's a bit, and I'm talking about the weather.
It's the main, you know, I had no motorcycle crashes
until two people wouldn't.
That's down in my stories at the moment.
Well, I'm not much hidden.
I'm sorry.
You know, I imagine part of it is too.
You turn on Canadian TV.
And I imagine half of the shows on, you know,
you're probably about as likely to turn on American shows,
Canadian shows.
We are, we are starting against a lot of Canadian dramas and stuff
over here, but they're all syndicated.
Oh, it's the same with all the American shows up here.
They're all syndicated.
Okay, so you don't turn on your normal network
and, you know, you're watching a law in order or something.
Well, we don't have like ABC, CBS, NBC.
We don't have those.
We have a CBC and global, I think it is.
Those are the two big networks around here.
Our TV's got really weird this year,
because with all the online demand content,
moving into the online demand field.
And there's a lot more stuff on demand,
legally, that people can get to.
Also, within a new service like Spark or something,
go, which the telecom company here is actually started
to fuck it online, like Netflix, type of thing.
But Netflix is actually just announced they're coming
to New Zealand, so I don't know what's going to happen.
Then, since we're a lot of these people
who actually get these shows for one.
So, I don't know.
Well, if Netflix has come into your country,
I highly advise purchasing a Roku 3 if you have the bandwidth.
Yeah, I've got a number to do.
So, I'm pretty good.
I just pay a $80 monthly fee.
I'm quite happy.
I use heats of bandwidth.
I use in data.
I just start loading and stuff all the time.
And then, it's destroys.
I go through probably 150 gigawatts a month.
Easy.
Oh, a lot.
So, I need a number to point.
Come on, fiber.
And I use loads of loads of loads of data.
Oh, legal, of course.
And most of the stuff is just,
it's just destroys.
And I don't think I downloaded you,
Nicole, do you think it anymore?
She's by the fire strolling steam.
It actually takes a lot of my data.
I've got quite a few big games on steam.
Actually, I don't like reinstalling much.
Just many of the most operating systems in the office.
I find it, I prefer to keep one,
because I've just got to many big games on steam.
I like to play, I don't like reinstalling them all the time.
So, I tend to stick with one operating system more and more and more.
Oh, steam.
Are you running that on Linux?
I have been.
I'm actually on Windows.
It's still Windows today,
but I have been running it on Linux most of the week.
Is path of axiles on steam,
or is that only on Garnier?
What's the call of us?
Look.
Path of axiles.
How luck for you.
Path of axiles.
Free to play.
Do you guys want to steam?
Nice.
That one's fun.
I don't know if that's on Linux though,
but it's definitely on steam.
It's free to play.
Yeah, they're actually,
I play that in wine,
and I really enjoy it.
It's like a flashback to Diablo 2 on steroids.
Yeah, I like that.
Let's get started.
Chi, Chi Dean,
who runs the steam community on Google+,
he gave me Borderlands tour
and a gift for Christmas.
So it was quite nice of them.
So I was quite happy with that,
because it was one of the games I wanted for,
because it's now on Linux,
so it was one of the few games I actually liked.
It was actually,
I could actually play it,
in my own system.
And if they released a Linux client for that game,
I'd give them $150 bucks.
I probably is on Linux,
so I should call it Chi,
or you have a run steam
on any version of Linux,
so you have to use their special
Ubuntu PeaceCrap version.
Majaro was having huge issues,
this year,
but they fixed it with the error,
they've lost steam, run time,
compatible, compatible,
and I've just got a phone call.
I'll be right back,
but I'll get back to that in a minute.
Well, dang it.
How long till I know you're 50?
Just about 10 minutes.
Yeah, I've,
you guys caught me
in the other rubric caffeinating.
Sorry, I was about life.
She's just coming out from work,
really.
So it's a no,
she's got, she goes,
I've got two minutes to get there before midnight.
I don't think she's going to make it.
It's like a 20 minute drive.
She's annoying.
She drives like my wife.
She'll get there.
That's quite a death and storm.
I hope she'll crash.
Yeah,
I want to take this time to say
that Clot 2,
or wherever you are,
you've got no excuse not to be on here,
either now,
or when you roll back around,
tongue-tongued, you know,
during the day,
when it's more convenient,
because that's why we haven't seen him.
He's on the other side of the world,
and he doesn't,
he can't get the IRC from work apparently.
It's a,
I take it at some,
a high security,
at least high corporate security type job.
So,
and their,
their systems are way,
way cranked down.
Any workplaces
won't let you on IRC,
I don't think you.
I'll pop your volume 50.
You're quiet again.
Or move the mic closer to your mouth.
How's that?
The health worse.
You guys might miss it,
and she does make it make it
back in ten minutes,
seven minutes,
because I have to go for it
until she goes off to bed.
You're speaking quickly again.
As shit,
if my wife doesn't make it
back before midnight,
which is seven minutes,
I might have to go.
Oh, well, it happens.
Otherwise,
I will pop back in a new way,
which she goes to sleep,
probably about,
or went off in the morning,
so another hour or so,
but I should be on here for another ten minutes or so anyway.
Well, maybe you can answer that question
I had about the steams.
Yeah, if you ask.
I was wondering if you could use the
steam client on any Linux distribution,
or if you had to use it on
the Ubuntu one that they roll out.
No, it does work on the
most Linux systems.
I tried it on DBN.
DBN actually seems to work the beast.
You do, for Dora,
I've got it working on.
The Dora,
I've got working on it.
The Dora and open CC,
and all those independent distros,
you have to be careful
if you're on a 64-bit machine,
with the 32-bit lids,
you have to install sometimes
separately, which can be a real pain.
I have had trouble
football manager 2014 and for Dora.
And saying that though,
the Dora has fixed it,
they've got a special
steam runtime program,
which we actually allow you to make it compatible,
so you don't have that issue anymore.
So it's wondering,
I actually quite like the Dora.
So is the steam thing,
is it like a hole
like all in one program
that runs in the background
and sets up all your games
and stuff for you?
Or I have no clue
whatsoever about it.
I actually buy a lot of stuff
on DBN.
So most of my stuff,
although I'm not special
to tell people this,
but I just buy the cheap dollar thing
and get four or five games
for a buck,
and even if the independent comes out.
So I've actually got,
over the last year,
I've actually got up to about
seeding five games.
And now they're seeding five games.
I've actually got about a 32-bit
so I assist the same
to how you'd use it on Windows.
Just summing them available,
and then it's summing them available on Windows.
If you're going to store them on Linux,
you need to store them
on Linux machine that you're on.
Because if you store them
in Windows,
what show up in the Linux version?
That's pretty much
something you have to do.
So just be careful
what platform you're actually
installing it on
when you actually install it.
Well, I don't run Windows
I run Gen2.
Well, you can still get
a Steam on Gen2 I presume.
There's no reason why you can't.
I presume there's a Steam client
for Gen2, isn't it?
I don't know.
I haven't really looked
into it until you said
that Path of Hicks I was up there.
A sebalon has got one.
So I presume that
Gen2 must have one.
I did hear Trouble with,
I tried sebalon 15.
I had Trouble with Steam.
But again,
it's the 32-bit Lubs.
You just have to find a way
to get those installed.
And then you'll install
the 32-bit version.
I mean,
that's probably the only
problem you go ahead.
There's this game I
go to the YouTube,
but Lubs installed
on a 64-bit
was showing,
which is annoying.
So it does it
automatically.
And I said,
Lord, other independent stuff
doesn't.
You have to
sit through stuff.
My wife made it.
I'm going to have to go.
Well, you have a good one
and happy new year to you.
I'm not three minutes.
I'll catch you guys later.
Well, I hope
that at least Marcus
would have stayed long enough
to say happy birthday to
his own area of the world,
or not happy birthday.
He wants to do the countdown.
I think she is.
How the hell did you get here
a team of minutes?
What was actually
like minutes?
I can't run this corner.
It was fucking
place.
Sorry.
I don't worry.
We aren't flattened
this one, say, for work.
Sorry.
I had just told it.
I was recording it.
I'll stay up and
realize that I might be
out of space for long.
Well, I have a good one, man.
Do I actually have to wait
for the new year to announce
a new year's show?
I think it would be best
to get it somewhere
close.
You got to remember
when they're breaking the
shows up, that's what they're
going to use to
hide off of.
So you'd hate to
have somebody come in
and say, if they're
recording a whole big,
long thing,
and then go to the
hour point.
And we're not there
with the, with the
welcome reading, which
is where they're going to
break it.
Of course, we're not, you know,
we're doing like three
and four hours.
So this one wouldn't
particularly matter.
But I would, yeah, I
would like it in the habit
of, of doing it pretty
much on the hour.
All right.
Well, I'll just be up
until the hour gets
here and then start
talking again.
Are we going to stop
recording and start
recording on the hour
as well?
Actually, Kevin
wishers lined up to
to record this part, though,
I don't see him recording.
He may be recording
some place else.
I'm recording, even
that it doesn't
show me recording.
But I've got, I've
got a recorder box
open here.
So it would probably
be good if they're, you
know, as many
people record as
possible, as a backup.
But as far
getting, I'm signed up for
later tomorrow, tomorrow
evening.
It'd be most convenient
for me.
But, you know, if
somebody can try to get
the whole thing in the
background, and I'm
certain Kevin is
probably not Kevin.
Ken is probably
recording from the stream
on.
Well, you can see that he
is.
I'm happy
to hear.
Yes.
I'm happy to hear.
Yes.
Greetings to
New Zealand, Auckland,
Solva, Wellington,
and
Nukki Lofa.
Happy New Year,
Kletto.
Yeah, Kletto.
Get off your tail
and get on here.
We haven't
heard from you in
so long.
All right.
I'm going to stop my
little recording and start
it again.
Okay.
And I do you have
you as a recording
or 50?
Okay.
Maybe it's because
it's still 2014
with us.
It's called
Time Zones.
Yeah.
No, it's called
Time Zones.
We beat everyone
to the time zone.
But it's that same
like he's
working in the future.
Yeah, it's like about
early morning
near the
time zone.
It's our
time zone.
Yeah.
So
if I was to
die now,
I'd still be alive
where it was living
here.
I don't know.
It's time zone.
Somebody
heard her of
mic.
She sounds
like she would
be fun to talk, too.
Go ahead.
Keep struggling
with the concept
of Time Zones.
That's all I
I'm still struggling
with the concept of
a volume of
show and I have no
fear.
Yes, I promise
again and take it
kindly.
Oh, God, man.
I was up there, man.
Maybe he's
just listening to
If he wants to do it one day, that's good too.
Hey, can anyone hear me at all?
Nope, not a word.
How did you know what I said?
Your lips lit up.
How did you?
How could you reply to me then?
Okay, I don't have a comeback for that one.
Ah, I cooked you.
I almost started searching around trying to find
if I'd mess something up.
Yeah, I enjoyed that.
Hey, how you all doing?
Is the show started already?
Yeah, you're late, man.
I'm always late to the party, but lost to leave.
Oh, can we up for a while then?
I'm going to go head off to bed in your probably
in about an hour and pin it on how this coffee treats me.
Yeah, that's a trouble.
Getting up the middle of the night in town and coffee to stay awake.
And inside, oh, yeah, I did for a couple hours.
And then I'll go back to bed after all the coffee
and that works too well.
Oh, no, it's better than that.
I was up.
I haven't gone to bed yet.
I was up last night playing around with my
HTPC reorganizing my movies and shows and crafts.
He's placed on a place, but I don't know.
There's a song for you guys on the place with an O-I-5.
Is that creative comments?
They have 30 seconds.
Crave comments anyway.
All the designs must be.
I think so.
I think we can talk about the kindness
of the old days.
People.
Yeah, all light-dine is in public domain.
I don't know if a particular recording about an artist
necessarily would be, but that's weird saying that.
That's in the public domain and happy birthday isn't.
Still going.
But I don't know what I'm doing.
He's saying maybe it isn't.
Right.
And the more I hear it, it must be the crave for one.
It's like, that would have been 20 years ago.
Anyway.
So dude, man.
What's going on?
What's going on?
I'm hoping that I got here in time to chat with 51-50
about arm-roid devices.
What time are we on right now?
About five minutes after I scheduled it.
So yeah, you're just perfect.
I hope one too early for you.
No, no, no, it was just them.
I wasn't expecting New Year's Eve to be today for some reason.
And I was planning it to be tomorrow.
Now, you said something I heard earlier.
Let's start with that.
That I was completely wrong about something on the o-droid.
I've been talking about it on a couple podcasts recently.
So film in when I get wrong.
Yeah, I only wanted to correct you.
When you buy the, what's the extra memory card called?
The EMCA or whatever.
You actually get a little adapter with it.
And it just allows you to plug it into a microcard reader.
So it just adapts it.
So it's the same shape as an SSD card.
What do you call a micro-SD card?
Well, see, I got one that I never got to use.
And I didn't.
It had an adapter to go on the plug into the o-droid.
But I don't think it was any way.
At least I couldn't see any way.
I could use it to plug in anything.
And when you say an adapter, you kind of,
you have to push the little memory card onto the adapter, don't you?
And then you can slot the adapter into an SSD slot.
Can't you? A micro-SD slot?
Well, I had some sort of thing that was off on the side
and then it had pins to go into the, to slip on to the o-droid.
It's not.
Mine wasn't like the new o-droid,
but you've actually got a slot for both the SD and the EMC, EMMC.
But it sure looked like there should have been a USB adapter in the kit.
And there wasn't one.
Well, I've got an X2 and two U3s,
and the X2 is quite a bit older.
I don't know what was the model, the older model you had.
I had the original o-droid X.
Well, I don't think that was too different from the X2, to be honest.
And somewhere sort of in the middle of the memory of the actual board,
there's a very, very minute kind of block that you push the memory card onto.
So it's not not a slot at all.
It's kind of a little place on the card.
If you don't look carefully, you can miss it easily.
Yeah, I saw that.
I just got busy and never got back to doing anything with it.
But no, the new ones, like the C1,
it's got a place for both of them just to slip in normally.
So it's not hanging off sort of where you could knock it off easy.
Oh, I hadn't noticed that.
But anyway, when you buy one of those cards,
all the free iPod, they come with a little adapter,
and it just adapts it to an SD memory card, a micro one.
So if you've got any micro SD card reader in your computer,
or you can put it into some other device,
and then you can DD images do it, and you can basically,
because I think you said that you can only use the image that comes burned on it.
But if you can connect it to your computer with this little adapter,
then you can basically update anything.
And for example, I use Arch on mine,
and if you just look to a search for Arch,
and those board names, they're really simple instructions
had to install that for both an SD card
and for this kind of external memory card.
Yeah, I remember time I used to go over to the forums,
and there would be, you would find your machine,
and then the first thing on there would be a forum of looks
to the various images.
Yeah, that's right.
So have you got a new one yet?
5150?
Not yet, but I sure do plan to.
You know, I wish, if I'd known to see one was out there,
I would have much rather spent 35 bucks on it than on the pie.
I mean, I'm glad I have the pie,
because that's what everybody has, and it's so well done.
Again, a lot of it is that, you know,
everybody's doing stuff on the pie,
so you can always, whatever you're trying to do,
you can always find documentation on it,
whereas the other single board computers,
if it's not, well, like DoDroid,
if it's not in that dev channel,
it can be a little hard to find.
So, you know, if they come in at them competing,
on products with the pie,
I don't think it'll be very long for the DoDroid
has pretty been falling.
Yeah, I really hope so.
I really like the DoDroid so far.
I keep looking around, maybe like a lot of us,
well, what little board can I get, you know,
because maybe I have the feeling that it's cheaper,
that I'm not buying a whole big computer,
and it's easier to justify it to my wife or to hide it, you know,
that I might something,
but so I keep looking around,
and I always just keep coming back to the DoDroid,
you know, I was tempted to get the X3, the XU3,
but I just wish it had a little bit more memory, you know,
just a bit more than two gigs.
Right now, that would be,
one big difference to see.
Well, of course they're doing that,
so they can sell them more expensive ones,
because, you know, I would think that C1 would be perfect
if it had the two gigs of RAM rather than for gigs of RAM,
or whatever, rather, you know,
you have to go up to $65 on the U3 to get two gigs of RAM.
You know, the performance is about the same.
Actually, C1 has one more memory slot
than the, or I'm sorry, USB connector than the U3 does.
And for folks who want to fall along here,
if you're not familiar with Fodroid,
go over to hardcurnell.com.
That's the vendor,
though I do think there's now a domestic vendor.
Is it an American droid, something like that?
I'll see if I can't find it,
slip it into the show notes.
But, you know, I haven't checked their shipping prices,
but the trouble Fodroid is,
when you get anything from a hardcurnell,
it's flat 25 bucks shipping.
So if you get the Odroid and you find out
after a couple of weeks,
a whole darn, I should have got the EMMC card,
along with it,
that's another 25 bucks for shipping on top of the price of the cards.
So you want to make sure you grab everything,
all in one's junk.
The power adapter is, well,
I mean, the last one I did,
I bought,
because the power adapter was actually a little weak,
I think, for most applications.
There's only amps,
and everybody said,
well, if you're going to fill all the USB slots you
in the old clock,
you're going to need at least two and a half amps.
So I found,
and I don't know if they're still that way,
I haven't looked at the power adapters currently,
they'd excel with them.
Well, they don't sell one with me,
you got to buy that separately by the Odroid.
But the ones they're on the side,
if I haven't checked to see what Amperage they are,
I just got a two and a half amp adapter of eBay,
and of course,
nobody makes an adapter with that right plug,
so I have to solder on an end from RadioShack
that fit that plug.
So if I can't look that up to,
because it's the same one I used on my ZIP,
it was a full ZIP computer ahead,
well, I'll think of that later.
But I know where to find the part number
on the adapter,
on a power plug that fits in,
it doesn't fit tight,
it seems to work,
and it's definitely known
when I found that was anywhere near the right size.
But...
Yeah, I just noticed 50.
The memory card, you know,
the extra fast one we were talking about,
was it EMMC,
it's actually,
it's not a slot on the C1,
it's still a little tech-a-ree boxed area
in the middle on the back of the card,
so it's the same as all the other ones, I think.
Okay, I guess I was wrong.
I thought I was seeing two slots now.
I know the USB is mounted.
Well, no, maybe that's my...
I guess that's my...
B plus Raspberry Pi,
where the slot's actually on the bottom.
Now, I don't know...
The C1 does have a USB microSD slot
right next to the other card slot
in the middle of the board on the back as well,
so it's in a funny place.
Yeah, I was thinking it was the same,
but it's, you know,
I think they're making it to be 100% compatible
with the B plus in cases.
The Roya, I haven't seen hardly any...
Well, I don't see as many cases
for the B plus yet.
I was looking for one, I got it.
I told you with the idea of getting the...
Oh, I'm forgetting everything,
I haven't even been drinking.
The Asian site,
bringing it all to parks for stuff like that,
but they've got a little, like,
4-inch touchscreen LCD
and so that you can...
You know, so the LCD actually becomes
the top of the case.
But I didn't find any...
I didn't find any of those for the B plus,
or I probably would have bought it at the same time.
Yeah, that sounds quite good.
It was really nice, say.
I just noticed they have an infrared receiver
on the C1 as well, as well as Gigabyte Ethernet.
Yeah, that's another plus on that.
So you wouldn't have to use a mouse
and keyboard to navigate
if you want to turn it into a new box.
I mean, that's...
You know, I've heard all these...
All these saying people play in movies on the TV,
using the Raspberry Pi,
and I guess they must be using that XBMC version of Debian.
Well, I mean, it's somehow a version of Raspbian,
but I've got Raspbian on it.
And just to stock with it,
I thought, well, I can install,
because I want something more like a desktop,
and I thought, well, I can install XBMC,
and if you look out,
installing XBMC on top of Raspbian,
it's like a thousand steps.
It looks like a pretty good upgrade from the Raspbian Pi,
and I really hope it catches on,
because I like the other boards
than stuff they're doing.
But I keep hearing talk,
or seeing mentioned that the 64-bit chips
will be coming out,
which will break the, hopefully,
the memory restrictions.
They can go over 4gb memory, hopefully,
and a bit quicker.
I'll be interested.
What happens with that?
Well, I just wish if they're going to have
a third memory that you can't upgrade,
that they would go ahead,
and put some, I mean,
I don't know if any of them have 4gb,
does the XU3 have 4gb or just 2?
Nice.
Yeah, it is limited to 2, which is a real shame.
Although, I mean, the 2U3s I'm using,
I've never run out of memory.
I'm not really using them as a desktop,
although when I do, you know,
unless I have hundreds of tabs open on Chromium,
which I can do sometimes,
that was fine.
You know, it's really, really good machine.
Yeah, that seems why I always have to buy memory
from my machines,
because I have too many darn tabs open
in the browser one time.
But if I close some tabs,
I could get by cheaper.
But, well, this little laptop,
I'm running now,
when it was coming to me,
it only had one,
and that's not really enough.
So, if you're going to crack it open,
you might as well do the max.
Of course, it only,
it's 32.
Well, I guess it's,
it probably uses all four,
I think only three, five shows up.
But, yeah, that,
that 64 bit restrictions,
not going to be a problem
until they actually start putting
that much memory in the,
in the system.
Yeah.
Yeah,
Markis was just asking
if it was in the chat,
if you know,
or pies online,
and for me,
I thought he was hungry,
but now I understand
that there's, well,
you can go and do egg
and get them now,
but there's two original vendors,
which I'm struggling to,
thank God,
where was it?
I got mine,
a big electronics,
and I was impressed.
I had,
I had to think in my hand
in a day,
well, not in a day,
to truth.
No, no, no.
This last one I got on Amazon,
it did take a while.
The first one I got,
the Model B,
that I got,
and never took out of the box,
except to look at it.
I think I ordered it
and had it three days later.
That's why it was a micro-center,
that I got it from,
maybe,
but the one I got off at,
this last one I got off at,
is on,
it took a little longer.
Hey, 50,
did you get your farming machine
fixed up?
So you could get back to your animals?
Yep, got it,
and just in time.
It's a real stress
when they're,
when they're hungry and stuff,
and, you know,
they're waiting
and you've got a fix on,
isn't it?
Well, especially when it's cold
like this,
I'm 16,
a Fahrenheit here today,
which is, which is,
a fairly cold.
Now, that's,
that's one thing
that I'm glad about.
We,
this is cold that's been this year,
really.
Well, you know,
this winter,
we had,
we had some weather in the 20s,
you know,
back at the end of October,
and see the,
the burn doctor,
he told me,
you know,
you're going to be fine
until you go,
it gets cold
and you're going to be
miserable
and in the need of,
serious pain medication
to, to go on the cold,
at least, you know,
this winter,
so, you know,
by, by,
the year from now,
your skin will be thickened
up and it will be a problem.
You know,
I was out in the cold
and snowed a day
and it didn't bother me anymore
than it,
you know,
didn't, didn't give me any
pain in the arms
or anything like that.
Not, not that I particularly
enjoy the cold,
but I didn't have any
unusual aching pains,
so,
either it stayed warm enough
for me to do,
develop a thick skin
or the doctor wasn't,
was mistaken.
Maybe the doctor's
just not used to cold
and when it's cold,
he suffers anyway,
you know, and,
I don't know.
How you seeing
I know what he was talking
about,
they do all kinds of stuff,
you know,
and,
I don't know,
it's for the show,
not that I haven't talked
about it before,
but, you know,
the, you know,
the guys
at the, at the
burn clinic was,
first of all,
you got to keep this cream
on your face,
where you'll be horribly
scarred,
and, you know,
so make sure you
really, really scrub
your arms and all that.
They didn't say,
you know,
try to peel the dead skin off,
but I got that impression
in this burn doctor,
you know,
I saw him two weeks later,
he was like,
no, quit torturing
yourself like that.
You know,
it's going to fall off
eventually anyway,
you don't need,
you don't need to worry
about it,
of course.
I, I,
about got rid of all of it,
by that time,
anyway,
but, you know,
really, I was,
by that time,
I was pretty,
pretty well
on the way to being,
being mended,
so, you know,
I don't recommend
anybody,
catch themselves on
fire,
but, you know,
I think I'm probably
the luckiest person
who ever did.
Did, did the scars
improve your,
your looks at all,
5150?
Have you got any scars
which make you
look more masculine?
Well, really,
I didn't have anything
in my face, you know,
which, you know,
that's the main thing
that I was afraid of,
I had blotchy,
you know,
it blotchy,
different color skin,
for a while,
but that all,
you know,
that all healed up,
I don't get any different.
On my arms,
yeah, if somebody
looked close to me,
especially on my left arm,
you could tell,
I've got, you know,
some weird
pigmentation,
you know,
like it burned off all
the pigmentation
on my hand almost,
you know,
well,
and the places
where the fire was
worsers,
you know,
it's not.
So, I don't know
if that will eventually,
change
or anything coming
next summer,
or if it's just going
to be that way,
you know,
it's kind of a little more
wrinkly, you know,
in places,
I can, I can look
at it and tell,
you know,
there's a different,
I don't know if anybody
else would be able to.
It's things like that,
which really make you
make it easy to be grateful
for the little things,
isn't it?
Last night,
I went out to feed
the cows late
and, you know,
how you get used
to they're just all
in their places
and our youngest cow,
who was born last year,
her mother died this summer.
She wasn't there,
and I'm looking around
thinking,
oh, where is she, you know?
So, I have a look
around outside
and she's escaped
and she was
wandering around
outside having a look
searching for grass,
but it's a really
nice feeling
when you can,
when everyone's okay
and you can get them
all back
and then things go well.
Yeah, yours are probably,
you know, a minor
for obtained too,
but yours are probably
easier to get back
back in.
Mine tend to be
stubborn, you know,
you're trying to
put them back in.
It's awful hard,
one person trying,
because you can't get
around on, you know,
on two sides of them
and force them in,
and they can't get
some, you know,
of course,
dad has been
five years or so,
since he's been able to
give me any kind of help
on something like that,
so if mine get out,
I usually have to call
the neighbors
if they haven't already
seen it and showed up,
but, you know,
now that I'm moving,
then I'm going to be
off the highway
and they're going to have
a dog before,
because it's right there
on the highway.
It's bad if the cats,
but, you know,
I'm seriously considering
getting myself a cattle dog,
because, you know,
I'm getting too old
to run down
anything, so,
never had one before,
but,
I'm second that may be
a great help.
I've got a suggestion
for you 50.
Get a donkey,
because if you can
lead a donkey around,
then you'll have
really good strategy
for leading cattle
or anything.
I've got a really good
strategy for
leading the bulls
or the cows around,
and they just can't
help but follow you then.
Yeah, I always work
if you get a bucket
full grain or something
like that.
They'll tip,
come to you.
When you've got just
long, it's awful hard.
You can lead them,
but just one,
it's awful hard.
So, the more you
run back and forth,
the more, you know,
stress they get.
Of course, they didn't
get tired, too,
and say,
all the heck with it,
I'll go find the
hole that I came out
and go back in it.
Now, all I did,
I just stumbled,
kind of nervously
up to it,
so that it isn't
scared of me, you know,
not running up to it.
Through a,
well, put a generally
put a rope around
his neck,
and then just started
walking home,
and whenever he showed
us, I would just,
kind of,
pull on the rope,
a certain amount,
and then when he gives
in, I let the rope
go slack,
and then I give it
a, like,
ten seconds or so,
and then just carry
on walking,
and gradually he realizes
that it's just,
it's just easier,
if he maintains slack
in the rope,
and then he just
follows you.
Well, I can work
as if they're,
if they're rope
to lead,
which mine are,
if you can,
if you can get
close enough to throw a
loop around them.
Right, I guess this one
is the only way
before, you know,
but they know me,
and they're, you know,
I'm around them
every day,
so she's tame,
and she was calm,
but it's,
I'm guessing a lot
of other people
they might have treated
my one in a different way,
and would have scared
her off, you know.
Well, say,
that's a problem I have
when people come,
come help me
heard catalyzing mine
or two days, you know,
it's,
it's hard to get
in moving because
they're not, you know,
most people
are naturally
running away
from human
to the whole,
you know,
and down the channel
into the trailer,
one just stand there
and look at you.
Yeah, that was a bit
like that.
One day,
a few years ago,
our horse is escaped
and they're in the middle
of the village,
and a few other villagers
who don't have experience
with bigger animals,
they kindly came
and helped,
but they're only making
the situation worse
by kind of chasing
after them,
like crazy dogs, you know.
Oh yeah, I've had
that experience, too,
you know,
what they're doing
and it's like no, no,
just let me do it,
because you're just
getting them all excited.
Exactly, exactly.
Yes, I've been
holding off buying
and in new,
new armboards
because, well,
basically I don't
really need a level one,
and you know,
it's just toys,
but I was hoping
to get something
a bit more powerful
and with more memory.
Well, probably
what I've got mine on,
I've got the plus
on my TV,
like I start
to talk about,
you know,
you know,
you're people play
you know,
streaming video,
video files on it,
and I just had no
success,
so there is,
was it OTP player
or talked about this,
oh, I guess
probably the last
Linux logcast,
Linux logcast.com,
the chain,
but,
you know,
but it's not,
well,
I can start
a VLC,
but it just won't play
anything.
It just sits there,
and I, you know,
I can open up YouTube
and a browser
and saying,
it tries to play it,
and this is going to play,
and it doesn't
play any of that.
And this,
you know,
there's this player
that was written specifically
for the pie,
so I don't think,
you, I'm surprised
nobody's
ordered it to,
you know,
regular Linux
for the PC
and it's a great,
small footprint player,
but,
you, you,
you just,
you go from the command line
and,
and,
give it the video file,
and that,
it just starts playing,
but it's not windows,
so you can't minimize
it or anything like that.
There are,
key commands,
to stop,
or jump ahead,
or the next chapter,
or whatever you're going to do.
No,
sometimes it takes a lot
for them,
porters thong to it,
as well.
I've been watchful
with it,
you know,
I tried,
I tried to get it to quit,
you hit two,
and I thought,
I figured it wasn't,
it wasn't,
it just wasn't paying any attention,
and finally,
you know,
one time after about three or four minutes
and quit,
finally,
after the first time
I hit Q,
so I figured out,
well,
it's probably,
it probably is,
just,
you know,
buffering the key commands,
uh,
way in the future,
it's probably not always
being what's,
what's been typed on the key,
uh,
uh,
uh, to maximize efficiency.
It does seem to pay,
I'm going to do anything high,
high res,
but, uh,
you know,
normal YouTube videos,
stuff like that,
that I've saved,
with YouTube,
DL,
it seems to,
uh,
it seems to play just fine,
but it seems to fill about a quarter,
I'm sorry,
three quarters of the screen,
and doesn't obey any windowing
or anything like that,
but it's,
it's an only max player,
I think that's it,
but it does work
really well,
I think,
yes, I can play video,
but it seems like the,
you know,
next being specific,
uh,
spin,
uh,
for the pie,
must do,
must do,
way better on video,
most sacrifice,
everything else to make the video work,
uh,
video's work.
So, if you,
if you've got to get a pie as a media player,
then,
then go ahead and grab that,
you'll,
you'll see yourself,
uh,
a lot of hassle,
but, uh,
dude,
when I had my old droid,
they still hadn't,
gotten,
uh,
I mean,
last time I had it running,
they still had,
sort of,
the video drive,
where you could really play
anything like YouTube videos.
So, could you do media
on yours now?
Yeah,
I just used you as speaking,
I, uh,
SSH didn't,
and launch Chromium
and had a look at YouTube,
and it all worked fine.
I mean, it was jittery
because it was over SSH.
I haven't got a screen connected to it,
but,
it works fine, you know,
but I'm running arch,
and, um,
I had,
doing what the packages
were called,
but someone had,
um,
ported some accelerated
graphics through,
uh,
for the U3,
and, uh,
I tried that,
and it was, uh,
it was an improvement,
but, I think most people
would be pretty happy,
but I'm guessing it's,
it's down to the,
uh, the distro,
rather than,
what's actually available now.
Well, like I said,
I,
I'm going to get a couple of droids,
probably,
probably a U3 for media,
but it has the more memory,
and,
um,
I don't know,
it's,
I'm not sure I want to run it completely headless
because,
I've,
I've noticed,
uh,
when I,
uh,
do,
try to access
those drives
remotely,
um,
through SSHFS,
you know,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
then sometimes and sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
sometimes,
Seems like on the pie you got to go in and wake him up
So I'm I'm running zone mind on one of my U3s and I've got four cameras attached right now
I'm kind of HD web cameras infrared and
It's run really surprised that the small amount of load is created on it, you know
I could probably get another five or six cameras on there
Yeah, I tried that on my server. I just had cheap USB
No, no, they were network
You know, they had an ethernet port their IP cameras, but it's the same one about a year ago
They yeah, and the one that didn't burn up. It's not working anymore than the beer to be lights don't come on under anything
but
You know, so I don't I'm not sure I recommend the brand, but it's it's the ones that got
You know in about a year and a half ago because
They were used as a baby monitor and suddenly somebody somebody external to the house was you know
You using the audio because you do it it does have a mic and a speaker though. It's you know
It's awful terribly slow. I mean terrible bad if you enable that, but suddenly somebody was they figured out
Somebody's watching her kid and fucking Adam or whatever and they did have you know, they had changed the default password
So it's not like somebody got cut in their network and found the password
It you know, just just read the manual you use the default password. So it was it was asked worded
It just there was a
Apparently the firmware wasn't very good though. They did put a pack out there
but
That those were the ones that I did not cheap one but I bought but I
I never could get
What's the software we were talking I never could get them to recognize it ever on the net
So the soundminder yeah, yeah, I've I have problems initially
Partly trying to understand how to do it, but knowing what what settings, but I don't know if it's improved or I've improved over the last year
But I'm really happy with it now and I found some good
cheap-ish
Cameras I got them from Alabama Alabama is like a cheap Chinese website
But you can get stuff and I ordered four of them and I think I'll probably get some more and
They're pretty fast HD infrared no mic or anything like that. I went for the cheaper models, but I'm pretty happy with them actually
Yeah, that's one that's one
Yeah, I see if you've seen the pictures of the house
I'm building you can see them on my
Google plus channel, but
Where it's where it's gonna be?
No windows on three sides. I'm definitely gonna want some external cameras and maybe
I'm up on a pole to top of the hill I can look down on stuff and see see who's coming in if I if I
Let him billy paranoia get away from me. I would probably set one up with a concentric rifle that I could you know
You used to shoot at people in the company, but
That that would probably that would violate some US law, so that's probably not the best idea
Maybe you could conceal it, so it's not visible, you know
They'll just hear it and feel it
I could definitely recommend the I can send you or give you for the show notes these cameras. I have
They were pretty cheap and good quality fast update and they they're working well with Zominder
Yeah
I do think we
I'm not gonna spend a lot of money, but I'm you know
Not an incredible amount, but yeah, when we're putting this house together
We haven't started doing the interior yet or whatever, but
You know, you got to explain to the contract. It's like, you know, I don't know, you know, I don't care
What a cost, but I'm you know, I don't want to be ever being we're about four foot from a
From a power plug and two feet when you know in the room I'm gonna use for the office and
Well, we'll see how that goes about the same ethernet connections
And they probably will be alive at once, but I you know probably about every every place I will all plug
I'm gonna want
An ethernet plug running right back to
You know
Well, these ones are dome cameras and they have power over ethernet
Infrared and I think they're about a hundred dollars something like that and you get them cheaper if you get a few more
To take a few weeks for delivery and they work pretty nicely
I'll just try and find a website and I'll post it in here for you carry on talking for a minute
Okay, great. Yeah, I see activity on
An on cast planet. Why aren't you guys in here talking?
Let's see
What what else we were talking? Of course, we got more options there before
I do pull one earphone off. It's I don't know do you you get that dude man?
This first time I've ever had it from a
headset, but you know, these are pretty tight fitting hands, but
You know, it happens to me all the time when I'm wearing down in the ear ear plugs on my on the media player
I guess I'm plugging off the station tubes and
You know and I've got some massive reflux
But do you ever get hit like a fitted nausea or anything like that? I do it just come to all of a sudden
I got to just yank the ear plugs out
You know just immediately and that's connected with the e-phones that that creates that in the you does it
Yeah, well, this is the first time I've said this what I've had a headset with
You know, this one's got cans really just you know with the fuzzy
Earbuffs sort of things like I have on the analog but yeah
I'd pull one off. That's the first time one of these but you know
My media here happens to me all the time. What what happened is I do I
Start doing anything
You know halfway straddles and I forget, you know, and I'm I'm a single podcast and
And of course, it's course once cold that also seems to when it's cold and damp like it's what gets been
That really seems to to exaggerate my
Accid reflux too, so
And I'm sure this this is this is great great father for podcasting that you folks visiting at home
When it gets up on the site yet, we've been talking about being on fire and nausea. I'm sure it's been a great hour podcasting
But you know, is that any folks listening if you want to come on or whatever you know, is that ever happened to you?
I'm talking not to just dude, ma'am. There's everybody in my voice
Hi, so if it's is connected with the pressure of the those plugs that you put in your ears
I mean, I never use those. I like the headphones to go over your head even if I look a bit more stupid out and about with big headphones on
But the acid reflux you want to have a look at
Edged diet and the condition of your gut because that can really get quite bad
Well, you know, I said I what I need to do is
There's stuff I can use control. I mean pro sac or whatever
Over the counter not what I what I need to do is is I'm always treating it after I after I get it
And that stuff Roy, I think you need to take it every day for to for to do
Do you any good? I mean, I need to set myself up for pill blinders like I was an old person and
You know every day take any instruments and
acid reflux and aspirin or something, you know, but I
I'm always chasing it after the fact
I just put a link in about an article from the Western A price foundation
It's something I talked about maybe the year before last at the end of a podcast about diet and more have you
I didn't intend to mention anything about it this show because maybe some people didn't appreciate it last time
But it's there for you to read fifty one fifty and it really is connected a lot with
The type of food you read and the the health of your gut, you know, and maybe a lot of those medications
They might help on the short term by suppressing it, but it's only going to make it worse, you know
Oh, and just so just before that that very long link
About in the chat is the link to the webcams I have
Okay, I see it well to google lake, which is probably why it's too long
Let me bring that up and bring that up in a browser and see if I can
Shorten it for the show notes
The next time I see if I can find an even longer link
Good morning everybody reading some Belgium
Hey night wise. Hey guys. How are you doing pretty well pretty well. Hey
Hey
That's the last day of the year. So it's mandatory that I jump in here and say my hello's
Hope everybody's doing great except for acid reflux
Uh, I'll join in with my
ailments of the season where damp weather gives me lower back pains
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I don't have that wow
It we had a little bit of we've had a pretty warm year here
And um, we've had a little bit of snow a couple of days ago
But before we got there the the temperature of the weather started really, you know, turning around
It was moist and we damp and cold and that's lethal for me
So I just walked around like an old guy for a couple of days
Do you do any kind of exercise to help it out to strengthen you back?
And I
We have a stair master upstairs that I use and my chiropractor one said that
My pelvis going up and down when I'm on the stair master is actually good for my lower back
And that strengthens the muscles
You might want to have a look at plank, plank exercises really great for your core
Oh, it's interesting
because uh
Googling that
It's really easy to do just you you prolong the time that you can kind of support yourself in different positions
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, there you really have to make sure that you're you're your
Bag muscles really hold your you're spying
Straighten stuff, so yeah cool. I had a stove maker here and
He was are you on automatic talking or I am afraid I am so I'll go to push the car
Going quite a bit. Oh, sorry about that. Hello puppy. Hello
Let's try now
You know, I had a stove maker who was complaining about a bad back because he was lifting stones up
And he went and got one of these girdles
So he's like a big girls blouse well as in a girdle and
I tried to persuade him that he should try and develop some muscles to hold it up naturally instead of this this big tight girdle
Yeah, once you get those backpaces and stuff
I've got a friend like that can't help with the moves
You know
It's sort of stuff like that
You're about done, you know, it is is my thank you but
Well, of course that can't save you back. I did I did try you know like a weight lifting girdle for a while because you know
Well, I lift my dad up stuff and sometimes that would get to be on my back as like I said
Always chasing the problem afterwards
It was you know, but it's always a hassle to put this thing on you don't want to walk around all day wearing it
But there there were times that didn't give me
So some relief when I started to get down that way. Usually when he's to give me problems you guys know I got to
Needs I wear places all the time, but
But yeah
Well my dad he had the reason he couldn't get up is because
He had bad back and once you start
And you know, I can tell you from experience once you start going that well
It's it's awful hard to get back from though, you know
I'm in a decision where oh, I've got a you know, I do a full basement in this place that I'm winning
Or anything down there to wash her and dry her and you know, I'm glad I'm not going down there
12 times a day
Because that that would get to my knees a bit, but
You know probably going to be here long or I would have that
All filled with empty computers again or something like something like that
I would find a use for the space right now. I don't have use for the space that I have
New place, you know now now if they've formed the floor and all that it doesn't look as big
Is it sounded like on the
When we're on the plans, but I'm sure it'll be
Plenty for one person. So you're going to get a gym in there 50 150
I bought gym machine this year because I wanted to get into some strength training partly because of back pain
I was having a few years ago, and I have the back pain unless I did some kind of yoga on a regular basis and
Basically, I've started to do some some of those plank exercises and general strength training and feel a lot better, you know
I don't know or I know
Has every bar on a sheet most of the times they just use it to hang for laundry on so you need you need to get one with big
Big kind of sticky out thing. So you've got the biggest chance for hanging stuff. Yep
Confirmed
I always have to make sure that I got the laundry off of the cross trainer
What did help for me, however is I
Stuck a tablet to the display. So in the morning when I get up. I go upstairs and I put on a an episode of
Some video for podcast or which is a or another thing which is ideal and
A TED talk or an episode of the big bang theory and that's about 20 minutes
So while I'm watching that among the cross trainer and that gives me my 20-minute exercise and I am
entertained and then I'm done. So that that helps making it
You know tying some podcast or or geeky entertainment to it that that helps
There is a bit of a difference
Maybe it's controversial, but I was interested when I started to study this last year because I was started to get into I thought
I was really fit because I have quite an active life
But I was having lower back pain and feeling tired sometimes. So I thought I had to do something about you know
I'm 40 already maybe that's young
But anyway, there's a quite a big difference between the cut this cardio rascular exercise and actual strength training exercise and
I reckon what I studied a lot of people would set would benefit a lot more from doing
Not extreme strength training to be really strong, but
focusing rather on strength than
Too much cardio rascular just to burn fat
You can actually burn a lot of fat from just doing strength training as well and those muscles that you develop especially around your core
Can prevent the back pains and make you feel and walk a lot better. I think that is something that I should look into because
I think that compared to a lot of
Mostly American podcasters of of my age. I'm a little bit
In a different class when it comes to weight
I weigh in at a 128 pounds. So I don't have a lot of extra fat to burn. I think I need to work on my muscles
Sure, but you're not American are you so you you have different genes
I guess I guess I do
But I'm I'm I'm scrawny for even even Belgian standards. I guess
128 pounds
Yeah, that's pretty light, but
But I definitely I appreciate more trying to develop muscles that just support my
Activities, you know, and I I have an active life
I sit at a computer as well, but the activity wasn't enough to
Maintain and develop that the strength that you need just to get out of a chair, you know and stuff like that without hurting yourself sometimes
Yeah, and that's true. The only thing is how do you how do you watch a video podcast while planking
We'll just have to shove the tablet right under your nose that helps
Well, I've got a clip zip a sensor clip zip and I have it attached to the top of these kind of big headphones
And basically I just go around listening to podcasts all the time or audiobooks and stuff
I've noticed that that that does really help because
The Roman or the Greek thing the healthy mind and the healthy body is something I try to to
Keep track of when I'm when I'm doing any exercises either I go walking or cycling or I'm on the cross-trainer
I really found that
They are ideal moments to kind of you know listen to a TED talk or listen to an hpr episode and stuff like that
That is that's something that's that's making it
Barrable and and if there are any geeks out there who have new years resolutions that say I should you know start exercising that next
Next year
It's a great time to to you know give yourself an excuse to listen to to to some new interesting content distraction free
Yeah, sure to just to go back on the the thing about the cardiovascular what I was studying was a
people can get too obsessed were doing just too much cardio
Rascular and it can actually create kind of you know like the the run in syndrome that if if you run too much
You you really mess up your knees and your feet and it is not necessarily healthy and that's one disadvantage
We've just doing too much cardio rascular and you can actually atrophy your muscles by doing too much because
You know if you don't eat enough or have enough
You know food
Then the you start just to waste the way and and lose your muscles from doing cut too much cardio rascular
If I've not messed that up too much and in my
Interpretation for everyone
It's it's true
The one thing is when you when you do cardio vascular exercises and and
You get that you know what runners have that they want to need to have to run
But if you don't do any under other exercises then you just go running for example
I I went running last year. I tried one of those start to run courses
It's brutal. It really is brutal on your knees and on your back. If you haven't
Haven't strengthened those muscles first. That's that's true
Well, I
School I work for one one of the coaches way better shaped and a little older and maybe better shaped than I am and I remember
Him having a harder attack. I haven't had one which is which is amazing. So
You know, I do I do think it's it's you know do a lot of running and all that stuff you can even if you physically fit you can
Unknowingly put a put a big strain on your on your body and
You know and run and run into a problem
Hi, yeah, so you're going to go on one of the trend. Thank you
One of the trends that we have
Over here. I think they're they're a little bit everywhere
Is that especially in in in in IT or other knowledge related
branches people are obsessed with
Running and you know logging their runs and posting their runs and and you know some of them go as far as you know
I did have a marathon and I did this and then I did that and these are people that are you know
Sitting in behind the desk all day and then in their free time they
Have this sudden urge to to compete and run half marathons marathons and I think that this year in Belgium alone
We've had three deaths in one of these events where people just keeled over and and died because day
Want to not only exercise but also feel the need to compete and and you know these are regular office jockeys
desk jockeys that that that run a fly a thryat one which is you know something normally only
Yeah, I wouldn't be surprised of that. I wanted to ask them because I was concerned at my age
Condition of my heart and what have you and connected with the food I eat thinking, you know, is it healthy and I got one of those
Pulse rate
Monitor watches polo one just so that I could measure my heart rate variability
I don't know if you guys have heard about that
But anyway, I was really satisfied with the results because it graded my heart at
Elite athlete of a 26 year old and um, I'm sure that must have improved over the last 10 years
But it made me feel much more satisfied in doing exercises and stuff like that
But that was before I started to do much exercise
Yeah, I'm sure if I got one of those it would say, you know, are you there? Are you dead?
Well, have you do you understand how the heart rate variability works because he's really fascinating
Probably more geeks would would appreciate that
Well, I would expect that people who are not very fit like I am that you start pulling anything at all your
Your heart rate goes from the base level to being you know running really really fast
Which which is where you get into trouble?
Ah, but that's not actually it because what it measures is the speed and the sensitivity at which the heart can react
Even to your breathing at rest that as you're as you breathe in and out
Your heart there should be micro responses and the the kind of flexibility of that indicates the health of the heart
Okay, let me hear it's a new year
Yeah, it's gonna simply let me jump in and
Welcome into the new year
Eastern Russia the Marshall Islands
So five more we need to fix that because this five more and we know what more is
And your
Foodie Arun and Tararwa
Happy New Year
Yeah, yeah, stop my recording and then start it again and then I'm going take a nap
Say no to pronounce Tararwa because you was here about more work too
But one of these days I need to sit down and figure out how to actually pronounce all these and then
Fill in all the ones that say five more because you know, they're all all those places are probably like hey
You know, there's only five places out there you could you could actually mention this
Yeah, where are we at?
I think it were we're the planets racing through the part of the Pacific that's going through
Through the the the new year right or are we on the Russian mainland
Uh, not Australia would be coming up in the end. Yeah, you've got to try your up in the air. Why?
Well, I since parts of Russia so I would assume that we're to the
Eastern part of the Russian mainland maybe maybe some of those islands that they're always
Conscious with Japan over out there
Yeah, that could be correct. Oh, yeah, it's Australia's first. That's that's one I always forget
I always thought that they were the last but they were actually the first right
known as we hit New Zealand first and actually we hadn't hit New Zealand when we started
So there's a few islands out there
close to the international date line and
If you look in a map, that's why 26 hours. There's a few of the places in that same area
That or at least in that in that same
latitude
You know, I guess it's longitude. It's it's something longitude where
Uh, it won't be
New years till near till 24 hours from now
I remember
I was was on our side of the international date line tour a couple of years ago and then
Well, I'm one of the smol's and then they changed it and there's a big huge uproar in tomorrow because um
They they went from being the first ones to get get it get stuff for the last
Something like yeah, I read a I just was I was about to see that I read that one of the islands actually hop back because it was horrible for business
To be a day behind or ahead of the rest
Oh, did you say that's trawala that I mentioned that make we need to fix that before next year
Or is that another island?
Uh, I I remember the story. I forgot the name of the island. I have to I think it was most of mine some sort of some hours
It's like western Samar and which is American
Controlled or something and then there's no more Samar I think it was the western Samar one that you know
That being on the other side of the international date line. They're pretty much right next to each other
stupid
I think that that is one of the things that as a geek frustrates me the most
Data lines and and time zones
especially doing an English-speaking podcast with with a lot of the community in the US
I really feel like I live in this part where you are here and all the fun stuff is over there
You know that that chart that Star Wars poster that was so uh so so popular
A couple of years ago. I feel like that especially with time zones
Having constantly to deal with the fact that people sleep when I'm awakened and vice versa. I have the same
Hi poppy's not poppy's noria sleep when I'm awake
I used to do a podcast with uh
Dave Gray Australian podcaster and
Um Katie Murray a Canadian podcaster and we do we did live shows
So when we recorded it would be Sunday morning 6 a.m. Here four o'clock in the afternoon with Dave and 10 o'clock Saturday evening
With Keith. So one both gentlemen were on either their first beer of the day or the last beer of the day
And I had just you know gotten out of bed for 15 minutes. I needed to be sharp as a whip
Uh, so I wouldn't get my behind served to me during the recording
I find this one time about four o'clock in the afternoon
Actually, must be later than that about just when the English are waking up the Americans are still it's late evening in America
It's about
And yes, you know, it's just again to the evening our time that either one's in the same time time zone
I mean you can actually get you going on at the same time actually I think it might be early morning to about seven or eight o'clock
So I'm out out our time when you can get everyone
Always dropping in and out
Yeah, it's um
It's it's one of those sweet spots. I know that if I do
recordings with people from the other end of the pond I
Ily either you do them extremely late in the evening for me or
The wee hours in the morning are are are also good especially for New York the the the the west coast
That's that's a tough one for me
Yeah, that's kind of a stretch and well in fact a few years ago I did
uh
pod brewers
I'll forget forgetting again and I haven't had any beers at all
uh over but
One of participants was in California and you know and everybody I was in the Midwest
Well couples for the Midwest and then air bail system
Eastern times own and even the four-hour difference
Was a little was a little hard to spank
I find a lot of us in America happens right about three o'clock in the morning for me like um
I know some plugged
Jupiter broadcasting unplugged and all this dust on about three o'clock in the morning
But I think Chris especially does that decide don't show up to the room
Um, no, I've never actually made a show because I've always at a exact wrong time or when it's actually on
It's just the weird time. It must be like four o'clock in the afternoon over the year or something
But it's uh really oh ten o'clock in the morning. I think it is
I met in the ues and I can never even make that time though
Really good done time for me. Oh, I did want to mention dude, man. You know how we used to get on
Or used to join us about the time
You know the old days on Friday nights. We would uh
We would we would do the pod nuts lug and uh
Then Linux
Let's basically be on and then do pod brewers and about the time we finished that you'd usually come
Join us now
There's a british podcast. I can't remember what was it um what's the british one of the Scottish guys
There was a Scottish guys that used to do podcast. I used to make because um the 12 hour difference is actually quite good
Because normally I can work out what the time zones are like they'd o'clock in the morning for me is eight o'clock in the evening for them
So I'd normally get the time zones that they're on but I can't remember what the podcast was though
so there was one that was um
uh a spin-off of lug radio
I think it was called hash lug radio and then there was another one which was um a free-node podcast
Which was called free as in free-node I think
Calvin was kelvin something they are kelvin podcasts
Uh, you know you're not thinking of krivens or you do
krivens you get Irish or something they're Irish or Scottish or something
Well they're both Scottish on krivens
I can't understand when they see it so they make things
You know that's a little funny coming from you Marcus
I've got used to actually I've been talking to belchromus the year um
Yeah, it's really had one to pick up I found the the Welsh one quite hard to the Welsh not
The Irish can be quite hard to pick up sometimes
Yeah, a lot of it depends on sound quality and all that some well some of the old stuff it was
uh on hhpr that was recorded from um uh um on camp you know and unless the room was really quiet and
It never was because people were always scooting their chairs or whatever
You know it was very hard for me to pick up. I actually thought uh this would be shut down
I didn't think I can speak with store up. I just lost the um
The the port or something and I can never get I can never hate you
I don't have to come back and not I've been to speak for about 12 months
I think actually thought it'd been actually down some reason I don't know why
Wasn't until I looked on hhpr radio about a month ago
I saw that you guys doing a mumble room
So all cast planet is hhpr radio is that correct?
No it's not specifically in fact it's actually uh
There there's dog cast planet uh website I think it's all cast planet dog
That uh has a list of all the all cast but generally it's become
Uh just a general meeting place for a lot of the podcast now pod nuts has their own channel
Well all those guys are are over there and all cast planet you know we we use it for uh
uh
Panic
All cast as uh as our uh default channel
Now Linux loadcast we've got hsionlux loadcast for it but
Usually people from all uh from a lot of the various podcast hang out in there
So no, it's definitely not just an hpr thing or well never has been you know hpr specific
That's kind of my home away from home
I just go there for not only the podcast talk but also the uh the general open source
uh
Fies related knowledge that uh hoveres around there
I said to just lurk there and then
People highlight me now and then when they're ranting about Ubuntu
One of the many channels that poppy keeps in touch with to uh track his stalkers and uh yes
And then this is enemies
I am not a stalker of that one pipe and i'm not one of the teammates
I only on two days of the week i just annoy him
I think i'll first write him as well
Yeah, I hope he may have directed that towards me because
Always seem like when we talk about all cast plat
All in all catch planets because i'm giving you food to a thrashing for something
It happens
When it comes down to irc
Alan Pope is Ubuntu
Simple as that
Oh, thanks actually is that a good thing or a bad thing?
I don't know
I don't see coin with two sides
I tried um um i tried that um that former pyro east this week
It's called uh what's it called um
Oh, can't remember what's changed into um but you're not too bad
Um guys restarted it again
These recently the same guy i thought it was
I don't know if it has a knot i could never get um the information but everyone's saying it's the same person
That must have been David David Tavaris
I think he was nameless
Yeah, I'd never got his name this name's not running down
You know on it it's um i can't remember the name now if he had installed a white turd
I just reached
But we just changed it today. I just can't remember what the hell was
dump fruit name
I can't
But it was actually not too bad um it had um the the the scholar new make vision
Which has got compasses stored and everything and actually was working alright
Because i have huge issues of make online and my computer
And uh
He had a xfc32 bit vision but um the 64 bit vision just came out and it was um
The former first effort was a two bad
I also have a head that put a lot of pyro east and talk which was actually pretty crappy
Um the fixed a lot of the back so i was quite appreciative that
Just normally i was speaking to find a lot of issues with it and i didn't find meaning
I think that uh made uh the made interface for me was the uh
Fuzz version of the walking dead in real life
I had never expected that uh that OS to come that graphical user interface to come back
And be so popular as it was today. I i didn't see that one coming
I remember talking to uh poppy doesn't probably well probably doesn't remember this
But i remember talking to him a year and a half ago two years ago
I'm saying it never be a light vision of the bunch
No i never said that i never said that
I'm sure it was you that see there'd be wrong. No don't the words in my mouth dude
I didn't say that
What was the name two years ago?
There'd been a long time just when make came out or something
I remember but when you long time ago i was other year was someone else
There's someone to see it was someone else
Okay i must have seen someone else
Well does it does seem like a every desktop on the man some
Somebody does a spin of it for you boon doons
If that's if that's all it does always wonder or you know why
Because most of them you can install uh
Whatever desktop you want from the repose if you can't find that you can probably find a
P.A. That has so what why build a whole spin just for just for one desktop
Because partly you know you don't you don't want to download an iCeo image
Install a desktop and find that it's kde and then have to rip that all out
And go through all the fat of ripping out all the individual little components
In order to put back other components to replace them
It makes more sense to have an iCeo image that has exactly what you want on it for you to install
Oh is she a great maker
Also it's it's difficult because sometimes you know
The desktop is tailored for that particular you know
Graphical environment so there'll be lots of little bits
That are in a kde desktop for example that don't exist in a nome desktop like fun on or whatever
At akinardi and all these other components that aren't on no
And if you start off with a kde desktop
Just as an example and then rip it all out and put no one then there's quite a bit you've got to rip out
And you go through a transitional and and for an expert like you know you're me that
That's possible
But for an average user who just wants to put a cd in and and it work
Then that's it's not a reasonable expectation. I don't think
Well, I can certainly see on that point
I've never been one of those people
That have gone on said well
I'm not going to install in a qt applications because it's going to break
All that extra weight or I'm not going to install an htk applications because I don't want
That on my computer. So I can see if you if you want
I run a thin system perhaps without either of those on there then
But I will take probably you find an open box bin or something like that and start that
I'm right and they still have to rip stuff out and put put stuff in it
it if and
An end user who doesn't
Um
Doesn't have the skills to rip out all the bits and pull all the the right bits back
That's that's just not a tenable option
I don't know it's not that they don't want sorry
It's not they don't want
cute and
Gtk libraries side by side. They may be perfectly happy with those library side by side
But they just don't want that desktop and to rip something and put something else in just make sense
It's true. You don't only I mean you don't have to rip out a desktop
You can just leave it there and and boot into another desktop
But you're you still have with the cred of the of the desktop spin that you didn't want
So let's say for example say you have
Both the kte terminal app and you have the known terminal app or or just an example
What I found not to be true is um, I'm installing
Cruton on microbook these days and it gives you a very light version an absolute minimum
version of for example xfce or or lxde and you have to pick and choose which applications that you want on there
And I found that to be very refreshing because I I started to to see that a lot of
Clutter that was on my machine was because of the default desktop installs
We've learned what would happen if I would install two graphical user interfaces now
So now I just started out with one very minimal one and install the applications only the applications that I need and that is
Something that really you know
Makes it all a little bit easier to manage
So my personal preference. I like it that way and I also give people the opportunity to
Um, tailor their distro. So for example the Ubuntu marty remix
Doesn't ship with the same default applications that Ubuntu does and doesn't ship with the same default applications that kubuntu does or
Ubuntu does it allows them to make those
opinionated choices to say well, you know, maybe we don't want rhythm box as our default music player
Maybe we want to have clementine or some other
Music app and so they can put together a set of applications that
That best represents what they think the desktop should be
And obviously afterwards. Yeah anyone's happy
Deppie can rip out individual applications
And put something else in but I think the the tricky part is is ripping out the desktop
Um, I agree though. I like staying with something small and this adding stuff
I don't like this shows that are blotered. They have three of everything
As you just one thing I would say that was I didn't like about this pirouis fusion
Which I can't remember the name of just the fact you put three of everything in it like three music players
Three browsers three. I just can't say the point in that in a distro
Well, you know, everyone has their own use case and you know some people like
Choice some people like having lots of options. Some people like the fact that you know, there's there's something called ultimate addition
Which is basically, you know a DVD with everything on it, you know, it's got
It's got every browser every you know email client everything
And some people like that some people like the feeling of
Installing a distro and they're just being this mountain of stuff that they can probably with and they don't have to go off and find it
It's just there in the menu some people like that. Yeah
I don't know though. I mean, I don't like operating systems that can with what I want
No, we would definitely don't have to reinstall stuff. I like I like to set in things
And the video drivers are like to be able to have easy access to or be able to install pretty easily
I like to get simple screen recorder even I can install it in terminal. I like to get
I like to have the RC player don't like lots of stuff and I like steam
But that's about it
Thin bit clean, but that's about it as long as I can get through four items. I'm normally pretty happy
I can't get one of them. I get annoyed
Going on deep in
That's just me
Well, I mean that that's a problem. I always run into
with the GTK versus
QT libraries
Having one or none or both
That they're always there always seems to be something
that
Don't the only good application of the best
Application for what you want to do is in one
Is in one of those libraries and as soon as you install it you get all you get all that extra
Weight anyway. What's the problem with that? It's like you know if you if you ran
a gnome desktop and
The best music player out there was Clementine for example, and that's a cute app
What what disadvantages they're in having those cute libraries?
I don't think they're like said. I'm worried about it because that's always the situation
That I've run into I guess if you were on a very low power system
Uh, I don't I don't know if that actually saves any
CPU time or memory space by
Eliminating one or the other or both of those libraries or not
I guess it does the thing the pin on the system though
I know I have I have issues because I've got low in the video card. I've got low in CPU
So that's why I have issues, but
If you're on I'm your head I see them and
At your RAM you'd probably have
You know be running perfect for some people don't do have low in systems
And I guess some people don't like you know if you're on a a
Limited internet connection, you know if there are updates for cute and gnome then you're gonna get
You know you're gonna get more updates because you've got more stuff install the more stuff you have installed the more updates
You're likely to get over you know over the life cycle of your of your system
You guys are on low and I'm not sure um, um, I'm on pope's high, but are you guys on low in systems or high in systems?
I'd be interested no because you guys are mainly people like to
Mac around with your computers, so I've just been interested to know
Well actually right now I'm on a
Donated laptop for my cousin. It's
Sort of it. It's a low-way dual-core centric, you know
But it's been doing everything. Oh, I think it really hasn't been to it is is swap out the memory
I mean I maxed it came one gig and that's that's why I'm running crunch bag because I thought it would be
fair fairly
Low-sister requirements, but then I couldn't
Uh, learning curve on open box was a little high
high for me so
I decided to go to the AC route and install
LXDE
It's not a little different between the RAM with xfc
LXD and open box actually find you can get some open boxed up rain systems
Actually quite high in on the RAM usage. I don't I mean, I've noticed that with some of them
Well, X LXDE is just more stuff on top of open box. Anyway, isn't it? I think so
I quite like LXDE personally
Let's use my default system over on the pie. I am
You know, I'm messing with learning a
Else it's i3 and i3
I
I've got the process of a lot below the i3 which isn't me. I've got enough RAM
I've got a jrm
But I have real issues with that process. It's annoying
Well, I'm gonna buy you a laptop very shortly with an i7 in it
and it's
But really I'm you I find most most of the time I'm eating the mouse which I shouldn't be doing
Uh on it, but uh, I've got
Why do I always forget what I'm talking about in the middle of a podcast where I haven't actually been drinking
Um
Forget things all the time and change the topic completely
People don't understand rule. It's okay. Let's read them
Center gene. That's what I'm thinking of really. I'm I've got the pie hooked up to a big 50-inch tv
Uh and uh all I'm using really is an extension of
My screen so I can run stuff
I'm using synergy to control it. So
Even if I three on there, I'm using I'm using a mouse to do everything. So I'm not learning my lessons very well
I'm still learning what like meaning. I'm with learning about new stuff
I find if I take her around with something I can't get working
Even if it's really frustrating me if eventually I get and eventually I'll work it out
And eventually I feel good about the fact that I've actually done something
I mean for door like the realm of the door 20 for ages this year
Couldn't get stuff to work really struggled in this
And the trouble with the door I find is some of the information is quite old
And I get information from old source and it's dusted up a bit more
But eventually you find the right thing and once you find out how to do something and you don't tend to forget it
You tend to be able to know how to do it next time. So I quite I mean in some ways getting frustrated and
Minutes is not bad thing
But yeah, I don't know. I think it thinks a lot of time too
scotly
Okay, at the 30 minute mark we're coming on another new year's
Greetings so keep that in mind
Is it isn't Australia lying with Japan? So is it Australia and Japan? Or is it is all the Singapore or other there?
There'd be a bit more
I get lots of the apple toned on tonight here with Australia
Well, I'll look that up in a minute. I've got a time zone
Open by the wall lose focus on the on the schedule right now
I can go inside time zone time and date.com
Yep, that's right. I've open
If anybody wondered why I live in the room twice with my
Pi recording
For God, I introduced a problem with my system the other day
I was planning to
Now I've got the memory sometime after the first the year to
Start over again if you boom too because there's a few peripheral such as aren't supported
uh, with Debian unfortunately and
Oh, I decided that pages weren't loading fast enough and it must have been
Even though I have the bandwidth that
Cox cable servers
They're Debian the DNS server might be little slow so I went in and tried to switch it over to Google
And it worked great and then I wasn't getting pages at all and I switched I switched back to
Taking the automatic settings and every once in a while I just seemed to lose the DNS server entirely and so
You know, then I can't I can't pull up any web pages. They said I already have open
Like I've been talking to you guys this whole time
And if I do a ping from command line sometimes that brings it back but always if I if I do
Set the
Card down bring it back up that always fixes it but I forgot I was
When I started this evening I was working with a faulty system. So that's why I'm recording
I'm in the channel to pie and recording with it as well. So we'll see how that goes. I don't want to fill up the channel with
Tumon extra bots did not have have enough room for people
How about this is a big Royce server anyway doesn't fit up to a hundred you shouldn't be too much issues with it
Well, I don't know if he asked him enough at this this year
I don't know if anybody got in in contact
Uh, okay, it's worth the third minute mark and a happy new year to
Norfolk island Kingston
Well, I guess it's not 30 minutes for that if there's anybody there listing
But it's 30 minutes more for most of us. So happy new years guys
Hey, Ken. I hope we're not making too big of some things
It's got my kind of shoes
He's technically screaming into his telephone right now
Yeah, Ken, we're not getting more know
And now he's figuring out the push to talk function on his client
But he won't does the same thing
Why his mum will jump he didn't about visions this year like I really haven't that's too much difference in it
It's about the numbers going up
I just gone from 1.22.3 to 1.2.8
Well, that's it's the uh support for the new albus client, you know, and
Uh, I would at least I don't know about uh this server
Delan told us that we didn't have the newer version
With uh support for opus we wouldn't be able to get on but
If I when I look at my configuration and the slider no longer goes from
Speaks to spell like he used to but it's definitely
On quality death definitely stuck there on self
So I don't know how you guys are hearing me but apparently it's working and I did try to do pinning or whatever to uh
To upgrade to a new version of mumble on abion and it just it got where it made my head hurt and and then
Fistle web joined us and when I was using plumble one night and he says well, I'm on depth. You know, I'm able to
Talk on all the servers. So I tried it and
Realized I didn't have to do anything. So I don't I don't know how it's magically working
But apparently it is because you guys should not be able to hear me. I think the 1.2.3 point
Something weeks fine with the opus one
I'm just not really I think you gotta be 1.2 point
Or something to work. Yeah, I think there is a mission with it. I think I think you're fine if you run 1.2.3
I think we'll see I'm on 1.2.3 dash 349
Yeah, well you should be fine if there's also got point next time it works
So um you should be okay
Actually, um, it's just speaking of a voice check. I've been using steam a lot more. Have you
Yeah, you guys have you guys been chatting and staying with voice check?
That's you're not too bad
I noticed that my huge improvements to staying with the chat options
lately
Yeah, I don't really I since teams come out I really when had the computer
Powerful enough for getting me the one time I tried it
Failed miserably of course that went with everything else, but uh, I thought I'll do it the cheap way. I'll get a uh, I'll get old
quad core
Core to do a workstation and this one I got it you know, I guess it was a corporate workstation. I had a
RAM should have everything I needed except the video card
I got a new video new low-end video card and stuck it in it and it was never recognized and some people told me well
It's got to be a problem somewhere because it should be in and but if you you know going to support they said oh
You know, you've you've got to have an up-to-date BIOS and the BIOS for that motherboard
You know it hasn't been updated in four years. So that's why you can't see your brand new shiny video card
Yeah, I have children with my bias. I actually I haven't updated it for ages actually
Uh, but yeah, I know I have issues
Graphic hats are annoying now. I mean moment
To be honest, I'm just that think of intel graphics could be better
I wish I don't have been stored. I think
Well, I mean, it's plenty good for most stuff
That I get a little plan around. I've got an A card in this
machine, but I can't I can't get accelerate graphics
Uh, to work on it. So uh, I got a touch racer than the day it will work. So
You know, like I said, that's one of the one of the reasons uh
I guess we lost Popeye. It's gonna give you them to a compliment
you know, uh, here that uh
You know, so
Sometimes it's just easier to give in and go and go for the path of
least resistance. So that's one of the things that I'm
Hope they can stomp you them to instead of dabby and it's gonna fix on this machine
You probably
Ubuntu does have more support for graphics cards and stuff like that. I think devian can be a real pain to be honest
To actually working in some
Debian users gonna hate me now
Um, but to actually get working just with cards and stuff
Um, does the if you try to mix 13 it's actually quite nice little operating system
If you just want to like devian, it's actually got a proper diva in store and everything else
um
And that's actually not too bad, but um
Most of Ubuntu's will actually work a lot better I think
Yeah, uh, like I said, I don't
You know after the fire this year, I was left performing the one computer. My cousin gave me and you know, he
Is running XP so he
He never liked it after even got it. So
Are you still on crunchman? Yeah, I'm on crunch banger right now. Like so
Did you
You managed to get you in the video and stored it all a lot of always had trouble with crunch bing in the video
I've never ever installed properly
Well, this one is AMD and no, it's
It doesn't seem to be recognized. I mean it works. Yeah, it works for like YouTube video and such but uh
Yeah, you get through trouble. You haven't got your drivers a few
Is it a laptop? It's all left. It's a laptop. Is it a ticket?
Yeah, like I said
Uh a lot of things on this now. I've got the memory upgraded and I did that the first things but not one
I didn't have it when I started
You know, I read it or that then beating
Debian for stack. I think probably
But the path at least resistance is the good you move to on it. Yeah, I would give something lighter to like expand to
I'm like ECU Ubuntu because it's just ecc is a lot lighter than unity
So I wouldn't if you go a low-end system would the ecc ecc
I mean ecc is quite good now. It's not I don't think it's too bad
And it's actually not too bad with stainless stuff either it and you'll probably find the additional drivers if you did have it
You would pick up any drives that you had so um, I would actually recommend
Expand to 14.4.1
I would uh, I would take a look at elixle. Uh, I
Doug a laptop out of the trash a couple of weeks ago
For my aging aunt who's looking for something
It was a dual core
No, I think it was a centrina processor two gigs of ram spinning iron platter disc put elixle on it
Headed boot straight into
Chromium and that was it. Oh no, so add a boot straight into midori and that was it
That was actually a pretty decent system with all pretty good looks
It's actually not too bad. Yeah, she I agree with you actually um, I actually think it is quite a good operating system
Um, it's quite nice on the computers because elixle doesn't
Doesn't actually take too much lxd doesn't take too much RAM. So um, yes, it's got a space
There's a 12.04 vision as well and there's a 14 there's 12 there's 24.5 vision and there's a
14.04 point one vision as well for that. So um, that would be a good good good
And yeah, you'd find that would be a much better looking operating system than crunch being just with its voyage
That's what that's background change. Yeah, that's actually got the background. She's not too bad
No, it's a decent operating system. I sometimes when I need a graphical
VM I take that one as the graphical
Shell on nivm to have you know some kind of desktop environment should I need it?
And uh, I've installed it on a couple of systems
Very happy with that. It's it's it's
elegance, but light
It's not light to the point where you're thinking you're working on a system from the 90s
So that's that's a good thing. I love the geekiness of crunch banks. It can be wrong
But uh, sometimes you know a computer has some work for you and not the other way around
Yeah, the mind issue with crunch being is that I don't think this being leaked on for a while
Well, I've heard the third rumours that the creator of it is that she's taken on a long break
And he only does updates when they should move the debions over so um, I mean the trouble is it's on a really old cuticle
Uh, you're fine. I mean, well, I think how it use your uh, no right wise is right right
Alex Ellie would be a bit of a and it's reasonably stable
It's not too bad for operating system. I didn't have too many trouble too much trouble with it
Uh, when I tried it and uh, and
It's actually works quite well
It's like could be another one that you could try as well if you wanted a nice
XFCE
We're about to which um has a nice that's not too bad
Um, yeah, I mean, I'd recommend you out to Ellie as well
well, I hate to take uh
crunch bank to uh, to task too much because um, I'm sure
cordonable is going to be uh, joining us sometime
uh, during the show you always does and he may be listening already so
You know, you know, it there's a lot of stuff I like about crunch bank. It's uh
Just the path of least resistance is going to be
um, wouldn't be bound to base system now
Uh, what's that crunch bank?
Right, if crunch bank came with a fricking graphical in the video, a spoiler, I wouldn't freaking use it
It just doesn't, it's just, I'd never, uh, always hate travels doing the video or crunch bank
Well, while you guys were talking, you know, you're, you're talking about zoom boom two and probably if I was going to pick a spin
And you boom two, uh, I'd go with blue boom two or like you said, uh, LXLB
Uh, does Alex Ellie support uh, steam very well or tell you where he is?
Yeah, it's fine. Um, you'll have no issues of all that even the um,
64 bit version weeks following on, um, um, it's basically runs off the same, um, but you've done two
Installer and it's all good. It's all pretty much there. Uh, the other one that you might want to try is and it's like 2.2
Leave, uh, if you want to know about to base, uh, excessive. Yeah, I mean, if you want a LX DE
And um, I would recommend it. By the way, peppermint of these five. It's a buggy as crap at the moment. I'd step with the LX
DE at the moment
Alex Ellie, much more stable
Okay, I'll try that if it's got steam support
But I don't I don't think I've got an AMD card in this. I don't know if it's
Fast enough to actually do any real gaming on this thing
You're fine. You're fine. Actually, I've found gaming in the LX so it gets you quite good
It doesn't use a lot of memory. It's not, it's not using a lot of RAM
Uh, it's got pretty much all the progentech you want. Actually, I'm preinstalled. That's good
You've got a background treasure and you've got, um, uh, for your windows, which normally doesn't happen now. It's LX DE
Uh, you've got, uh, a couple rates, uh, radio players to the timer. Um, I think it's using random rhythm box actually
Um, I mean, it's pretty easy. It's got a nice
I think it's got a nice bunch of software actually included. I think you think with sets too much, but um, this does again. It's just me
Well, what I had set up, um, like I said, this is one of the things when the house fire ahead
And it may actually been too old for what LX jelly
Is intended to support. I had an old, uh, before I had only from the schools, old Dell computers
Uh, and I'd said I pulled two, you know, I pulled hard drive out another one because there were only 30 gig and put them both in there and set up parity
With, uh, the boom to install one one and LX jelly on the other and uh, I was, I was going to do a benchmark and there there is one
benchmark application for Linux understanding and I know it's been a year ago. Probably didn't. That's why I never got around to the device and
The learning curve for the benchmark application. What was, uh, pretty high by this right after it looks
Out and I'm trying to compare on the same stem. Is there any kind of measurable performance increase or we're just using a boom to
But you know, I'm thinking probably that LX jelly is probably trying to target quote old systems
Your old uh, core two series rather than a P4
Yeah, you probably I should I think they are
Uh, but it does work on your systems as well, but you're right
Um, but yeah, if you're own countryman and I like to I think LX LA is quite jump up, um
I mean, it's just you probably know too much and and uses job memory
Um, I don't think it uses that much RAM. So it's not on nice honky on it too. If you know, not a nice honky manager and stuff on it as well
Fun and knowing
One of the things that that I found uh during my experience this year is uh, I was looking for something to put on an old network that I had and uh
I found a a distro called chromixium which is basically I did something on that too. It was quite good. It's like a crime or LX
Um, crime go right. I quite like that actually the the thing I liked about it was that it looked looked okay
It had a very non-intrusive desktop interface. It came with very few apps
But you could install them. So what it is I installed the basic chromixium with chromium
And then just added a couple of apps offline apps that I didn't uh that I needed and that was my OS
And the great thing was about it the less clutter and applications were on the OS the more productive it became to me
Yeah, I agree with you. I did the same thing. I really liked the operating system
Would be one of my U.S. operating systems in my top five days you liked
And that was that was that was that crummy in my crummy it's OS
Uh, and he did a couple of extra versions after I tried it too. So he's done a couple of my updates. It's but it was a very nice
Chromile e-slop
He's got all the Chromile e-stuff in here. He's just made he's just config a plank quite well. It's an open box
But I did some gaming on it like I tried for a manager at work fine
Uh, was staying I installed some possible or everything was working fine on it
It's like and I felt quite nice to take she use
So what I'm hearing here all is is that uh an operating system with fewer applications and fluid fewer clutter is actually better than
operating systems that come pre-packaged with
The kitchen sink and the neighbors kitchen sink and the neighbor across streets kitchen sink is are is that something you guys agreed on?
Oh, I don't know about that. You you hear uh like sacked slackware that comes on
A DVD. There's they say well
You know it comes with everything so you don't need to worry about the factors
Not a package management. There are package managers
For slackware, but they're saying oh just just go with the
Curtain stall and don't worry about updating
Anything of course perhaps you probably want to keep the kernel
To date so uh just uh just for security. So I
If you've got the drive space no, I'm not I'm not sure I'm saying I want a
a
System small hard drive foot brand of course, you know this this current machine I have
I think it's only got a five five hundred gig hard drive
But I you know, I I deal with that by making sure my media either goes out on the network
Or stored on the on the attached to usb drive. So
If all you're doing is your applications and your
Court your correspondents your documents and stuff like that you you can get away with a fairly small hard drive
And I was doing the same thing back when and ssd's of course you had to be
If you had to print every sent every sent down the thing that I that I
Keep wondering about is in a time where
Installing applications using ppa's or either a software manager is so convenient
Why are we still pre-packaging a lot of applications by default with a distro ending up with multiple spins of that distro because everybody wants a different set of applications
Why not?
Come out with some kind of base operating system and a very easy way to make a a selection of what you want on there
Kind of like I do when I install a window a system. I just install the base operating system and then run likes
Ninite I tag what I want to install by default
Automatically it gets installed and I'm done
Well, I've made the argument before there's a lot of distros that I wish were just a
A package that you could install or I mean, it's just
Some is different idea in different tweaks to desktop. So sometimes the same desktop that's
That you can already install from from the
repose but just their own tweaks and their own idea of software that needs to go along with and I always want well
Because you've been too based or whatever and I'm already running you go to it would be nice if
If I was interested in
And go with that distro if they just had a package that I can install
Customize you move to and come up with their
With their idea of how everything should work and try it out that way rather than having to be a whole different spin
but
No, you know as long as I don't run out of hard drive space. I'm not really worried about
having
Multiple, you know, multiple browsers or you know, I've got all three browser. Well, shouldn't say all three
But I've because there's more three browsers for Linux obviously, but I've got Firefox
Chrome and Chrome and I usually use Chrome and Chromium when I don't want to open up my hundred windows that I'm
Too lazy to close
Firefox and I just want to get into something quick and
You know, I don't I don't need something. I don't need my store passwords for anything like that
They don't they don't click on Chrome or Chromium, but
um, yeah
I'm not sure I'm that I'm that concerned
About filling up hard drive space at least until the repetition gets full and and
They start to get wonky until I fix it. I've had that before on my SSD
Yeah, for me, I just don't I I'm starting to
require less and less and less local application locally install applications
But that's because I've got a cross-platform workflow anyway because I switch from a mag to a PC to a Linux machine to a Chromebook
And still want to continue to do my stuff. So I've kind of tweaked my workflows to not rely on any OS specific applications
Hence all the OS specific applications that I get I go like well, do I still really really need them?
Well, yeah, but we're getting more and more to the point where
It seems it seems like for a lot of our workflow all we really need is a Chromebook
I mean shoot I remember the times well first
15 years or 10 years at least of
Owning computer. I didn't have a connect. Well, maybe was quite down. I didn't have good
Interconnection at all and then for you know five six eight years whatever was it was only dial up
So with much use I couldn't participate in podcasts or you know, I
I think we lost today 50 150
Hear me. I still hear you guys. Okay, you dropped out. You were saying that you just had dial up
Yeah, I mean for when I started with computers, of course, I didn't have any internet connection at all then for years
I didn't have dial up and then I had a slow
You know, so called broadband connection, but
Really I infert the first thing I turn on when I turn the computer on as I bring up my browser and 90% of what I'm doing
I'm doing in the browser and usually only other two applications that I have up are terminal and a
File manager and the old time Roya run anything else is if I'm doing podcasts and get in the mumble or
If I'm doing HP all I get it. I get into audacity
So you're you're right. It's it
We're probably coming to the time where we're going to be doing everything in the browser
I've been thinking about something I wanted to write an article about but I didn't really get down to it because I couldn't really organize my thoughts
around it, but I had
thought about how
Many of the Linux podcasts were raving about the Chromebook and one of the things I thought about is that it might be a sign of
Linux fatigue of people
Who love the Chromebook for its simplicity and it's success in the Linux world or in the Linux user community
Is because of people are tired of fixing things and just wanted to work
And for them for many of them either
Consciously or not consciously they started to see the Chromebook as it runs Linux
So it's okay and it just works and that's why I love it and suddenly I saw a lot of people who are really into the whole
EFF slash stallman
camp going
Around and singing praise of the Chromebook, which is this proprietary as they come because I think that they were feeling
Fatigue by constantly having to patch fix and and tinker with things. How do you stand on those those things?
Oh, you know, I think I think I'm into Linux because I like to take care and customize things. I wouldn't be
You know, I got used to it as a gamer of course. I don't game hardly any more, but
You know and and of course, you know when I start gaming you you had to
Take care of the heck out of stuff just to get it to
Up and run. I mean the game didn't tell you
Do you use back in the days when you had to do extended or expanded memory and you know, I used to have things like
One particular game might have to I'd have to have a
Custom boot floppy
To get to get the memory right
Just to get into that game. So yeah, I'm I'm a tanker
From way back. So that that doesn't fricken me at all now sometimes when you break stuff like I was explaining before that I've managed to
somehow break the connectivity
To my DNS server on this machine and that would be frustrating if I wasn't planning
on
Reinstalling the OS in the very near future of course probably six months from now. I'm still gonna be on the same system, but
You know, I would like to have a backup computer so I could do connectivity
Uh, you know, so I won't have to worry about okay. I'm gonna take this computer down for a day and
Reinstalled operating system, but you know, a lot of stuff that I wouldn't be worried about like
You know being able to pay in podcast. I can't do on Chromebook. You know, there's no
At least through the browser. There's no mumble. There's you know, there's
Nothing no audacity. Well, I guess you could probably find something online or for locally to record voice, but
That that just seems unnatural to me when you can
Run those applications locally. I mean if I were to get something like a Chromebook
You know, the first thing I would do would probably be go and develop mode and
Put you both to whenever Linux is available on it and then I would find myself
Just contesting one two three. Maybe nice
But like I said, yes, I
We're right to have a Chromebook
The first thing I would run into storage problems and
Now I was talking about this on kernel panic a few weeks ago
We were talking about small footprint computers and Chromebooks and
And uh, I said, well, yeah, I could I can go online
And buy for the $200 minimum or even $150 that I'd have to spend on a Chromebook. I can buy a small laptop that
It's multi-cored. It's gonna run circles around it and sound research came back with argument
Well, see you don't understand you can you know, you can use a Chromebook for
Eight hours without having to plug in the power and I'm like well, yeah, most of the time though
Even if I'm taking a laptop with me to to the work side. I'm taking the
Power adapter with me
Probably, you know, maybe nice not to have to do that
Most of the time they're very rarely do I do I take the laptop to work side and then you know have to use it for more in a couple hours
I
I can jump in on that I've been doing a research for on a Chromebook for a week for the next episode of Nightwise.com
Which we just recorded
And one of the things that surprised me about the Chromebook was the fact that they said yeah, it has awesome battery time
And I went like so what
But the ability to pick up a laptop and use it as if you use your phone hands open the lid
It works and you don't plug it in all day is something that is
Surprisingly addictive. I can I can tell you that
Well, I can certainly see the use kit for the trouble the trouble is
You know if I am out servicing stuff. It's going to it's going to be
Windows computers on a windows network and I need I need something that
You know, I can probably I can log into the windows server
Like with an RDP client or something like that
I've side loaded mine with with Linux to fill up the gaps
Where we're Chrome OS fails and for 80% of the things it doesn't
I switch to to Linux where I have you know the power tools that I need like an SSH
Like something like foulzilla or a file manager or mumble or Skype or those few applications that I use offline
But what I found is that they're not that many applications that I need to have on there to get stuff done
the combination of having both both Chrome OS and
Linux in a device that has such good battery life and just works when you open it up
That is something that is that is pretty nifty. I would I would love
To have
Define me Linux laptop that does that just have a small footprint not too expensive fast lights and work 100 percent
Especially when it comes to hibernate. I've I've started to hate having to boot up my computer
Well, let me break in and say greetings and happy new years to Australia
Again, one of the five more I don't five more are but Melbourne Sydney can bear a
Hon Lara somebody needs to teach me how to pronounce that last one at least
uh, so greetings and happy new years and
You know expect I expect to see some of the Aussies jumping here pretty quick. I also have a note here. I'm gonna do
We're gonna be doing this reminder
Not every hour on the hour, but a few times during the podcast that Ruth Patterson from
distrawatch is looking for a new host
For the distrawatch weekly podcast
So someone wants to be the host of a podcast. That's a great way to get into it every every once in a while seems like
They need a new host because I know several people who have have done that
You know, I think it's pretty much reading a script that's provided
So you right don't have to do anything would sit there and read. I don't think I've never been the host. I don't know
but
Somebody's looking for something to do to help out or if they want to get started on podcasting
I can't think of a can't think of a better easier way. It's just that
The guys associated with with distrawatch don't feel that they have the time
To be doing that podcast right now
I'm sure you've been contacted or give out any email but I'm certain of contact information
On distrawatch, which is just a great side and thank you guys for
To do distrawatch for and Bruce and all you goes all you folks for keeping that up to date because that's always my go-to plate
if I'm looking for the
latest version of the distribution
I and and and respond you comment and like why
I know I've sort of gone the
The other way with shutting my laptop down because this is this
This is the you know, if this rental house
I'm using one of the two bedrooms is an office and the other one actually sleep and this is the first time forever
That I have I've had my electronics in a different room
Then the uh, then the one that I sleep in I you know, really I'm enjoying that not having so many blanking lights and all that of course
I still have the phone and if you you know a few other electronics
I guess the phones probably don't only
computing the box that I haven't plugged in in the room where I sleep but so I I'd gotten into the habit
of just letting laptops sit there and idle and run open
All night plugged in and that bit because the
It is probably for your old laptop least in the fan war out
So I went down for a week, you know on my backup system
All I ordered a order to fan
Actually, it's a good thing. I procrastinated. I did take the old fan out
And I had it lubricated. I was gonna stick it back in because I figured well
To be another two weeks before I get the new fan from the far eight and then I didn't get it back together because I didn't feel like we're
In that night and then and then the new fan showed up post the next day. So
I had also
One replace the thermal paste so it was
You know, I ordered that off
new egg and I spent money to get it there like
Of course, it's over a weekend
So even though I did the rush shipping it didn't show up till fall and Monday
But had I put it together? I would have had to just take it back apart and
And plug the new fan in so you know
I've I've gone from my habit of shutting the PC down
When I'm not using it to leave it sitting there running 24-7 and then going back to well
Maybe I should get maybe I should give the PC arrest worked in a while so I don't always shut it down, but
Sometimes I do know
Yeah, when it you want to come to my laptop. I'm I'm I'm a lid open lid shut kind of guy
I love the fact that both on my max
I have that that that that option to just open it up and and start working and close it back down
I I like that. I didn't have a good
hibernate suspend or resume suspend
A function on my Linux laptop, which was an IBM
So which was a Lenovo twist and that was even though I had an SSD. I thought I found out a little annoying
Yeah, even though I'm still connected and getting that thing
We're not connected to the DNS server and I can't update the show notes
So I was I've got my other record going so I am going to
I don't if it doesn't come back presently. I'm gonna shut down my original recording. It knows if it's messed up or not
I've got recording
Going on the side now
Okay, I'll give you some time there. Is there a meantime? Anybody else on you in the room? We had a you
Somebody coming in a street B. Are you still here?
Yeah, I'm here. I'm actually using my n900 to be on mumble right now and I'm trying to get a microphone working on my other laptop
Are you sound okay on the n900
That'll that'll get 5150 some some
Some chance to to make some dead air
Be where are you from? What are you doing?
Um, well, I'm Brooklyn, New York. I'm just staying up all night to you know recent my sleep schedule
So it's what a.m. I have been up since midday yesterday
So what kind of geek reary projects are you into?
Um, I mean, I'm a slacker. I've been using slackware for I don't know. I think close to 10 years now
Um, I mean, I I work in a school that just they throw a bunch of professors are just gonna throw me random projects
And I just figure stuff out so I have no I don't know. I like to code. I don't care what
And uh, what you're still working on your n900? How old is that machine by now?
Oh the phone I it was created in 2009, but I mean, this is the second one and I have a third one
Back up just when this one dies because like I have a hate for all Android and iPhone devices now
They just it's not the same um, I've always been fascinated by the n900
What what what makes it tick? I mean, what makes it so so incredibly special?
I mean, well, first of all, you get it and it's just it's Linux. It's debian
It's really debian you you know, you open a terminal and you see you know, the it's
Everything all the commands you want a keyboard that you can use which I don't see happening either and all our new phones
Nobody has a keyboard anymore. It's all touch screen. Yeah, the the blackberry classic is coming out with with a keyboard
They're trying to bring it back because people still still crave for it
Wait, wait, who who's making a keyboard?
Blackberry the blackberry is bringing out the blackberry classic out the blackberry classic
Oh, well, I mean, but that's blackberry right so are they
How's the is there gonna be Andrew? They're not gonna run Android now. It's still gonna run its own blackberry software
Yeah, but I got it configured in a way that you can run Android apps on it because they are lonely
I don't know two and a half developers developing on the blackberry platform
Yeah, that's very true
So who else we have in the room here anyone he else want to speak up
Okay, I'm back
You guys were talking just a minute ago
Yeah, we we we were talking about bees and 900
Bee what do you do on that machine aside from mumble which sounds pretty awesome?
Um, I mean, I actually just got mumble installed. I have I've distinct pretty much runs on the developer
Repositories and I mean, I haven't received updates in a long time. I mean at one point
I remember nobody was you know, they they probably made this phone last like three years after
Nokia gave up the community with the CS the CSSE updates
What is what they had and they continually updated applications and now I'm pretty much using the latest developer
You know tools that are there which supposedly is risky because stuff crashes
But I've been able to keep my amen hundred running for a month without a reboot without a crash
I mean, I don't go nuts and run you know like a hundred applications at the same time
But at this it runs amazingly for especially for a phone that's now five years about
Is it safe to say that the n900 is a computer that
Then you can put in your pocket
Yes, it's still it's the only one too hold on let me see if I can keep chatting while I put the mumble app in the background
Let me try that. Well
Okay, can you still hear me now?
Awesome, which means I can keep surfing or doing anything else I need while still talking on mumble
This is amazing see this is why I love this device
Stuff like the I mean this phone is as old as the first iPhone it wanted and the first iPhone couldn't multitask for the life of you know
They didn't even know what multitasking was they used to minimize everything and now
I don't know it seems like we kind of lost the middle of the
No, no, I like off the button. I
It's just yeah, I personally have been using this phone. I can't leave. I can't use Android every time I use Android. I've rooted
I had an S2 at one point. I had it rooted in working and then that a certain point you know
I think I I did it because I kept using signage in mod to the latest release and eventually my phone just started working horribly
It you know had problems had reboots got hot and I mean
I blame myself because I like to stand in the latest nightly release from signage in mod or maybe a not too far behind
But it still doesn't compare to this phone. There's no way
Well, I mean sounds like you've you've got what everybody's been looking for. I mean
You know, there was the failed
I call for all this the quality
Experiment from KDE folks
to get KDE
running on a tablet and
Updating applications to be a touch of air of course now that we're coming up with
Touch of where full-size screens for DCs at some point
All your Linux applications are probably go or most of them are
Going to evolve so that you could use of either of a keyboard or a mouse
Or with touch, but we're not there yet
I mean that this is something I've wanted since Android came out or smartphones came out actual bedics
on the mobile device and unfortunately all the attempts have come out it is
Well, they're to keep the cost of the device down there. They're going with
hardware that's a generation or two old compared to well
You know, why don't you just write software that that I can
Overwrite my Android phone with and and have real Linux there
Again, you know, the problem is most your most Linux desktop applications are
Not touched frequently. Of course, you've got the full keyboard or everything. So Roy doesn't it doesn't
Matter unfortunately, there's just on a mainstream market for what you and I want
Yeah, this this is true. I mean, I see the reason why you know
Why Apple is so popular because I mean, I'm in New York
So I remember one day I was sitting on the train and next to me is a man has to be at least 70 years old
And he pulls out an iPhone out of his pocket and just starts listening to music videos and and looking through things
And I mean, I've tried teaching you know older people how to use your computer and the fact that a company has managed to pull that off
You know, they get respect for that, but at the same time because I love having everything as open as possible
It you know, I get angry at the same time
Sorry, just copying the
Server information into on cast planet for someone
One of the things I've noticed when I tried running Ubuntu on my Nexus 7 is that was it that it was for me a little bit of a disappointment
I was using I tried both the the early touch versions and the original of Ubuntu that you could run on a Nexus and
At the time neither of them seemed really ready to
to replace the
the something the experience that we have on the N900
Yep, also, I mean the the only other project there's a project
Well, there's two that are important one is replicant and that's Android without any non-free
Software, but I mean eat there's very few devices that run and a lot of the things don't run because
Wi-Fi usually doesn't work without any non-free
Blobs and neither does bluetooth and then the other one is actually neo 900 which is
They're still doing this and it still looks like it's a success is they're taking the N900
They're gonna use the the shell. They're gonna update the processor update the RAM and change a bunch of things
Yeah, that's the only thing that I've I've seen
Over the last year one of the things I remember is speech by Ricardo similar where he says
Our technology evolves
But our behavior does not and he said it takes a look
He said if we take a look at Henry Ford's car a hundred years ago at four-wheel four wheels steering wheel and two seats
So now we're a hundred years later and our cars have four wheels a steering wheel and two seats
So the net cost of innovation although the things go goes faster and is safer is that the basic concept has not changed
And that has not nothing to do with technology
But the way we wish to interact with technology it is human behavior that has designed the way a car looks right now
And not technology and it is human behavior that is dictating how we interact with computers not the
Revolution in touch interfaces
Well, all I know is I won't phone that's almost stolen and approved approved
So I mean you he'd use it, but he wouldn't talk to anybody on it
Yeah, I think I know about the 900 I think you might be
Reaching a bit on that one is it is the 900 all open software? I mean that's trouble
Well, that's a trouble phone of any kind you're always gonna have that
For project well, I guess that's what you're getting at you. You're always gonna have that proprietary chip
and
firmware to connect to the cell network
They're never gonna let you get around
Yeah, I think that's the only part right that has to be closed because it's in FCC guidelines
Not FCC. I think it's FCC because if it's open it make it way too easy for somebody to disrupt service
I think something something of that sort
Oh, yeah, there's there's been those experiments with the people
Who build a
Oh peer-to-peer system to set up a cell network, but they've kind of do it inside shielded building
Because it's not legal for them to have anything that can possibly connect to a cell network that they didn't buy
Okay, so come in time of the day folks ought to be waking up by no little box is true is looking for hardware so he can connect and
To a mumble talk to us, but we've been talking through the night here
It's about time for some folks to perhaps wake up in Japan. It's of course
Well, I mean and on this side the problem the other side the pond, you know
You guys heard about the middle of the day
Roger that 221 in the afternoon here
And we are coming up on at the at the 30-minute walk for for us for coming up both
To get another
New Year's Eve breeding New Year's happy New Year's breeding
Well, here I see Peter 64 on all cast planet
You know, I don't see him talking
He's got a computer connected
So I don't know why he's not in here talking to us
Yeah, I think we are we are the the the sole three hosts of dead air radio at the moment
Yeah, you know
If if if I had time not to talk I would certainly go it go into
Hash on cast planet and start shaming people
into
Joining us meant of course, maybe I haven't been on this time in the morning before think I have well you usually
Usually I will be up for a few minutes starts and go back to sleep. So
maybe this is the
Dead air part of the show show normally, but
um
You know, I've been on this show in years past at least when I try to join you can't hardly get it word edge wise
So
You know come on folks jump it's time to jump in so at least some of can step away from the microphone for a minute if we need to
Roger that we are running into the late afternoon. I still have some
Stuff to arrange because we are going to have some festivities tonight fairly light, but
Yeah, I'm I'm working behind the computer and keeping an eye on on the chat in the meantime, but
There was life as I know it out there awaiting me
Yeah, I know well, it's all about
Almost 30 here when it comes to about more o'clock in the afternoon. I'm gonna have to
Jump up and go out to the farm for a while and be back to
You know near near the time. So
I you know, I hope we can get stuff
Rolling along here by the end where I can step why I don't want there to be dead air, but
You know there's things that have to be done that aren't here. So
You know
I'm hoping we can
Get more people to step in
Okay, just a just a quick shout out. Is there anybody still in the acropopian radio at chat room like dude man and stuff who are still listening and
Still awake
Well, Kevin was your city was gonna join us when he woke up. So he's not I guess he's not up yet
I guess dude and step to all right. I'll be back. I'm like him through a computer in a second. Sorry for interrupting
No, I'm just glad to hear you still there
At 51 50. This is the part of the show where we turn this into a cooking show
Like any what I think this is something Kevin just installed over on
um
The Linux lug cast channel on our channel bot. I think it's dot fd
And anything starts with f is I think is a bad language, but it gives you a
A link to a random recipe from
Oops, he dropped out there
No, it's it's just I hate to hit it
Have control key down on trying to try to do anything
Usually has something unexpected
Yeah, and cooking is the worst subject you can talk to me about I am terrible. I I I burn hot water
All right, how about now a little bit of a ground home there, but uh doable
A louder quieter. I don't mean no, you're you're just right. That's good. All right. Cool
I mean well 51 50 is a desperately looking up cooking recipes found anything yet
Well, I just gonna scroll back to I saw the last one just reissue the command in the channel
We can tell you for those two
So be you've uh join us from a computer
Yeah, now I'm on my x60
And what kind of a machine is that spec wise and a ways wise
Also, I mean, I have two laptops one of them is a t430s, which is uh, I believe it's ivy dual core 2.5 no 2.6
And this this x60s is 10 years old, so I'm I'm not in mature 1.6 gigahertz pentium emma or something like that
But I mean, this thing's also on slack 32 bit and this this is actually Libri boot
So it's completely open. I wipe the bios. This thing is awesome
And and what are your main activities on that machine? What do you do when you do on it mostly?
I mean, this is the machine I take to work with me
So I mean for to surf the internet to check my email to you know
If I need to run a random command, I know I can always do it if I need to give somebody a
bootable flash drive of something I can always use dd and pretty much every day basic device
What are the the the most favorite apps that you use?
What do you mean on linux? Yep
I mean, considering just the basic stuff xchat
Firefox thunderbird VLC and the terminal window. That's pretty much as simple as all I need
Okay, uh cool
50. I hope you can jump in because I have to go. I wish you guys a great new year and good luck with the show
Darn it. Why is I was literally just away from the bathroom
You guys can you hear me? Yep. Yeah, you got a little
uh
Like fish tank
Sound in the background, but it's you know, it's it's not worse than all audio until
Well, there is a fish tank behind me
Well, I might explain it then
But tell you what you came in just in time because I just need step away from just a minute guys. I'll be right back
All right
No problem
So where's everybody from?
I'm from New York
I'm a lovely Illinois
Lovely, Illinois. How's the weather in the Illinois right now cold
I'd say probably worse than here
I haven't even looked at the temperature, but uh it's been cold
We haven't had any snow or anything uh what we did a little bit but nothing lately
And New York hasn't gotten any yet and hopefully we don't get any snow here turns ugly too fast
Well, at least you're not buffalo
Yeah, I don't know, but it's heavy snow, but it's not as city-like of an area
So you know, here it's like day two would become slush and you don't want to walk in it at all
Yeah, I live uh pretty close to St. Louis, Missouri, and uh that's how that becomes too. It's just nasty
What this show you run?
Right now I've got Fedora on one laptop and in them two on another one
I've become pretty boring uh in the years of using Linux
Why what do you mean by boring? I don't like to mess with things anymore
Oh, you're I mean yeah, I I kind of have that but at the same time I like to
I like to update things way too much so eventually that fails and I have to fix something
That's uh why I really got into arch
Arch just seems like it's dangerous to me
Yeah, I mean I'm on Slackware, so I pretty much gave up package management a long time ago
And I've been flying ever since
Yes, like where is actually the first distro I ever ran uh back in 2000
So I started with Slackware
Then I jumped to Red Hat and bounced back and forth for a long time
Before I settled on Ubuntu and Fedora
Ubuntu the why why not use like Debian there's something that's you know less less intrusive
It's just easy
You see that's I mean I'll give it to them. I'd rather have somebody use a boom to then use windows and learn some Linux
Yeah, yeah, it's definitely better um it really has everything that I want and
Most things are packaged for it right away, so you don't have to worry and compile and everything
Like I said, I've become real lazy
Yeah, I mean it's
You know come I've like I'm not in the company environment where I have to use Linux
So I don't know how that would work if if a company uses it because I can't see them using Slackware
Even though I've heard people running Slackware servers, you know without package management
It's suicide even sometimes I hit a point where it's like okay
I got to wait trace way too many dependencies just to get this one application working in the company. I work for
If you're running Linux, it's gonna be sent to us
Unfortunately, we do use group wise or there are some uh sus our sled
Servers out there, but for the most part it's red hat or sent to us if they don't want to pay for the license
Yeah, I mean that makes sense closest. I mean it's it's pretty much red hat, right?
I've never really used red hat or sent I'm one of my friends uses sent, but I don't know is it almost the same thing
Yeah, it's really close um and if I remember right
sent to us
Is now part of red hat. I may have that wrong. They may have gotten somebody else
But um, I thought I read somewhere that sent to us was brought into red hat
I don't think it's quite that simple. I was listening to bad voltage. It's not a recent cast
I was
Batch listening to all the ones I've missed over
Pretty much all fall and they had
one of the people
That's red hat employee who's involved in
Synos and the what the way he explained it is that red hat has joined the synos project which will
What that means is that uh, they they have
Red hat is paying people to develop for synos and you know, let the
The actual fact of it is instead of
Synos being you know six months behind current well, you know, I mean it's all it's always pretty much one the one ratio
Uh, as I understand it
Uh
You know same same thing is real, but it used to be it took them you know four five six months
Uh to to catch up catch up to the current version of red hat
And now it's pretty much the same day
Uh, you know, there's a new version of real than uh
And synos is a hundred percent compatible
And I think what that is is um, red hat trying to catch the market of those people saying well, I don't need real
Uh, I don't need to pay for I don't need to pay for real license. I need I'll just install synos
And uh, I think they're waiting for at least big cup, you know, midsize companies to do that
They're waiting for the local admin to get it get in over his head and uh, have his have his bosses yelling at it because
Hey, you know, our systems aren't working. Why don't you why aren't you fixing them and then the uh
Then the uh, the local admin going so well, we're we're gonna have to give up and uh, uh, buyer
By a real license and when you know, so what's it that it's probably for red hat when when he does do that and call him up and say
Hey, I want to buy 50 states of rail and a certain server and all that
Uh, they don't have to spend much time with him on the phone trying to bring his synos installation
Up to compatibility with real
Uh, that that's my thinking at least and the other thing they said is
You know, the difference between synos and real and I imagine you'd have to probably be a fairly big customer
But uh, if you if you if you've got a red app license and you come to him and say well this peripheral that you know like
Something most people wouldn't have like uh, oh
Trying to think of the of the writing screens. They have they'll have in the schools and I
And this is my mind that it's in Promethean. Let's let's say you're school
And you're using Promethean boards and I don't know if they're supported uh by the next or not
Promethean Promethean board
But let's say it's something you know an unusual piece of hard uh hardware
You know, I assume if you're a big enough customer of rail, I mean he deep well
What the guy who stood up saying said well if you've got something uh, piece of hardware doesn't work
We'll work with you on writing drivers for where you don't get that as simple as you can't call up spin-offs and say hey
Write me a driver at least not in me, you know, at least not and uh get
You know
If you don't mind somebody it's interesting just doing that for you. So
I imagine if you've got one real license and you say hey, I can't get my webcam to work
Write a driver and fix it. I doubt if you're gonna be a lot traction that way and
And I'm sorry. I said when I stepped away. I missed a
a greeting and so greetings to
Australia
Adelaide and
Broken Hill
10 minutes too late
Hey, 50 I noticed uh you're running uh looks like a pie bot in the in the room as well
Uh, yeah, what else are you running on that raspberry pie?
Well, I explained that uh, I hate I hate to take up another spot in the room though. That doesn't seem to be an issue right now
Uh, the reason that I did that for my for my recording. I had it set up
prior
Explain this earlier in the show to you guys went around
All the other day I decided that
Whatever DNS server cox cable was using wasn't responding fast enough and I tried to go
through the graphical network manager and
Supplynet with the google dns
We're great for about five minutes and then all of sudden I wasn't getting dns at all
And so I switched it back to the automatic dns, but that works
But every once in a while I seen on the slap top
I seem to lose my my connection to the dns servers, but any any connections that I have open continue to work
uh, but uh
You know, uh, you know, if I try to click on another web page even so my page I already have open or I try to update the schedule
Which I have open
It's it was show notes. It's it doesn't work out for me. So
Um still a few you know about an hour ago. I had to
Do it up down or down up on my
Ethernet card to get DNS connectivity back. So if anybody's wondering why I've got
Two connections open in in the mumble room. That's my answer your question
um
Right now, you know, I was kind of disappointed in in the media facilities on on the
On the pie. I think I'm gonna probably be looking at one or two the bill droids
Uh, but right now I'm using as an as an additional street
I've got hooked up on my 50 inch TV in the office about
Two TVs because I thought, you know, then I want to watch different channels
And the trouble is though I talked about this upon a Linux podcast
Uh, uh, in this house that I've got rented it's got finished basement. So I can't there
There's a cable running in this room when I can't get to the other end of it
And it's not connected anywhere to anything and I can't I can't uh make holes to run a new cable in here
So I got I got this wireless deal
uh
Action tech off of amazon
It's actually it's actually using
Uh
Wi-fi, you know, the other end of it is on it is on splitter on the cable and then the uh
Uh, the uh
The other box is in here and what's supposed to do is the two boxes are supposed to
Just get to be supposed to talk to each other
And
So I don't have to run a physical cable in here to the other TV a talk about this on a Linux logcast
Great for three days. I didn't watch any tv on it and I really haven't done a
Got it sitting there watching it flash trying to make connections. It hasn't worked since
So I've got you know, pretty much. I'm using the 50 inch in here is another monitor. I've got the pie connected yet and
I've got raspy installed, but uh, I wanted to try playing with a telling window manager and so I installed i3
But real so right now I've got channel x channel open on one side and the mumble running on the other side
usually I run a run x channel on the
on the pie and
Other than that, you need not much but a file manager and a terminal open. I closed those so I'd have enough memory to run
mumble and
yet to uh
Do record the show, but I'm not really using the tiling window manager as as intended because I've got
Stnergy installed on both machines. So I'm I'm using the laptop keyboard and mouse to control
The pie most of the time so that that's really what I what I'm using it for
Yeah, I got a raspberry pie for Christmas and uh
Got raspy in on it and right now. I have motion running with a webcam and it connects back to my zone minder
So I've got an extra camera in my house now
um
Also, I put a uh
I frit the software. It's like share print or share point or something with it actually uh will
Share create air print um for my wife's iphone and ipad and everything so she can print to my print server now
And also there's an airplay app um that I have on it so she can send audio up to our tv now
um
Which you know we can do everything like that with the chromecast, but since I have to do toy. I decided I need to make everything work
Yeah, I guess people have I was saying earlier this thing here. I guess people have luck with the
xbmc
version of
raspy and that's got to put in getting getting video, but I can't even do
Yahoo video very well
Uh, it's talking earlier. It's uh, I don't want to forget it again
All in x player something like that. That's a very very light player. I can I if I download a video I can watch it
So that seems to work fairly well though it's not very responsive if you want to quit out of it or anything
And it doesn't run in a window which it takes over chunk of the screen uses it
But uh, uh, and I've looked at installing I figured I could I
I want more of a desktop experience. I was going to stop it and sell xbmc on top of raspy and but it looks like it takes about a thousand steps to do that
So and no better than it is playing video. I don't think I'll do it
I hadn't thought of I hadn't thought of that use
Redbox be
Dude man, and I were talking
an hour or so ago
about
You know IP cameras connected to
uh
Zone monitor, but really if you if you if you just had a fixed position camera
Probably get away cheaper. You you I'm not sure of the image call be using a webcam plus a pie
Where they've been spending a hundred dollars on a uh
Dedicated IP camera
Yeah, I think it it depends on your webcam um, you know, I I manage video conferencing infrastructure for the company I work for
So I've got hd cameras, you know, webcams all over the place and I've been meaning to grab one of my
$300 webcams and bring it home and see if the image quality is any better
But uh, I've just got a like a $50 logitech
Webcam on it right now, and it's not terrible, but you know, it's you can definitely it's grainy
So you know, I'm hoping if I put a more expensive camera on it then it'll get better
But it's just a play toy. It's not something you know, I'm not using it for security in my house or anything
It's just to say that I've done it
Right, well that's why I want to go through raspberry pies because there's you know, they're
There's literally probably a hundred people with
Playing with the pie for every one person who has one of the alternate
Single board computer, so they're just so much more out there if you if you if you want to know how to do something
With pie some no matter what it is probably an article out there on the internet some place and with anything else
Uh, even even though there's there's a lot higher performance boards out there for the same money
Uh, we were talking earlier about hard kernels
Uh, o droid c1, which is pretty much pin compatible and form factor compatible with the b plus
For 35 dollars in a quad core
GPU in a quad core CPU
Yeah, you know, but if you if you want to do something like say
Take that olive bob of touchscreen and plug it into it which even on a raspberry pie takes a
Uh, uh, I shouldn't take proprietary because when you when you get the screen you got it also
Get there version of raspy and because the kernel's not the same. It's it's got to have
Support for the uh for this for the touchscreen in the kernel
well, uh, and uh
it
So if you're if I review the same fact take that same screen and plug in to to the o droid
I'm sure plug in, but I'm gonna have to I'm gonna have to run around find my own drivers to make it work
So that's that's that's kind of the difference between the raspberry pie and anything else. I want like I said I want to have one
Uh, to be able to do that take take advantage of all that online support
But they're you know, there's a lot more powerful
Computers out there for the same money or very little more
You guys are making me feel that I have a raspberry pie and it's just I bought the most expensive aluminum case for it
But I barely use it. I mean it has a dish on it, but I fairly I really need to put it to get you something
I haven't figured out what
Well, I said I had a
mild old troid and be you don't know know this. I'm sure, but uh
All last August I had a
Well, like this is in the july I had a
A cooking accident the house fire took about you know, took all my electronics and everything else
So I lost the ultra-rated I had and start over but
You know, the problem had a fit is it just it always seemed like even though I wasn't
Restoring it very often wasn't doing much to write to the SD card because I had an external drive plugged into it
You know, I stored everything on it. It just seemed that
I'd be going on just fine with the distribution also in the SD card would be would become
Kind of unavailable. I don't know if that's something they fixed. They they do still sell at an additional premium and an EMMC
Card
That you could plug in for solid-state storage to the old droid and dude man who was good earlier
You know has has told me he did with the EMMC doesn't have that problem
So definitely if anybody if anybody's looking at the old droids I would recommend spending extra money
and
Getting that but
Oh, I said, you know, I keep trying to come in general a general-purpose computer and the Raspberry Pi just isn't
It isn't powerful for that the old droid was for most cases, but the time I had it
They had they hadn't sorted it on the Linux on the Android side. They had the video driver sort it
They really didn't have the
Video driver sorted when I was using my
Old droid on Linux, so I couldn't even even know I had a quad core video card. I couldn't even really watch the tube video with
And again, dude I asked dude man this evening and apparently they've got that worked out
Today, so yeah, that's one of the things I plan to do after the first year is
Is grab one or more of the old droids?
and
The Raspberry Pi as of as the
Code-unquote media computer on this TV
You know real box says in
On-cast plant that mumbles locked up on him, so I guess that's not one
While we're not hearing from him if anybody is listening to the stream
We really could use a few more people here in the mumbles to the conversation
I wonder if more people show up though. I mean, I don't know where where are you from?
I'm a South Central Kansas
Riddle box since you can hear me
So I don't have to type type look for on your task bar set of lips my mumble will disappear
And go down to the task bar. That may be why you can't see it
Wait, what are they trying to do? Oh
I'm
Riddle box type didn't
IRC that he can he can still hear us, but he can't he can't find
His his mumble window and I thought maybe it got minimized to the task bar. Yeah
Yeah, and it's quiet because I've got
Yeah, it looks like Riddle boxed back and it's quiet on my end because I was trying to think I've dropped my DNS again and I'm trying to work the problem
Online systems so probably here after the hour. I'm going to jump out and jump back in again
And seriously some of you slackers and all cast planet. We really could use some help in here
Uh, see you lighten up dude, man, but we're just getting static
Uh, say, but hear me ears at my end. I hear you
Okay, just making sure I was still connected and it's weird strange connecting any problems
Riddle box you back with us
No, but I am can you hear me this time?
Yes, I can
My son have been using the computer and he did just a few things
Happens I was listening to you downstairs and uh I have what I'd come up and join you. I heard you you call for people to come and chat
Well, thanks to be nice to
Step away from the computer long after grabable cereal or something, but
uh
Are you going to be here all the time 50 are you trying to uh break a record and be here for 26 hours
Actually, I think clock two was uh on through the whole first show of course it was only 12 hours now
I'm I can't I've I've got to go out to the farm after lunch at Eastern and run a few errands. That's why
You know
Well, like I said folks, we could we could use some help in here because uh
Past noon my time central time. I'm going to be gone for probably at least three hours. So
Well, may pass on a clock, but I you know, I got to have three three four hours this afternoon. So
Somebody is going to have to jump in here and cover the dead air, which is usually not
Is historically hasn't really been a problem on this podcast. Maybe everybody's tired of doing it. Maybe maybe came was right
Uh
Answered question hockey. We've got we've got about three people talking
You know, it's just two people talking. It's awful hard to step away from the machine
so
Honking honking was asking me in the
IRC how many people we have on so you know
Usually I jump into the podcast and I can't get it worked in edgewise
But I'm not used to being on this time of day. So uh, maybe that's why
But I hope some more people are going to be interested in joining us later on
Well, I almost jumped in earlier when nightwise mentioned
Maybe he should start talking about food and then he uh of recipes and he said that he burns even water
So by I stayed away. I thought maybe maybe no one's going to start talking about food
Well, I was going to mention a site. I never got it uh, uh right now. I would like to say
Uh happy new year to Quizzle in Australia
Again, five more. Why do we have five more? You know, it doesn't say what they are and Brisbane
Fort Moorsby
Is it cars? I guess it's cars there. So happy new years folks
Okay, like I said, I'm going to have to set my estimate card
Flying rich hello Richard
Where is he just flying by? Hey guys, how's it going? Good. Good. You're not mumble while flying. Are you rich?
Say that again. You're not flying right now or even because that could be dangerous
Yeah
Hey guys, I'm going to be
Right back. I've got to reset this nick because right now I can't even
Uh update the notes
So uh talk amongst yourselves
What's new, Rich? What's going on? Yeah, I'm just getting spun up for uh, you know the last day of work this year
Ah, you have to work at the subpoenae
Well, I don't know. I'm gonna write in the time sheet. I worked
Ha ha ha that's really work. Yeah, good one
Now if I could get my audio setup right here
Are you sending good? Yeah, but I uh be audio is coming out of the speakers now my headset
Oh, I don't hear much echo at all, so so yeah
Yeah, well, maybe I'll run with this then
Well, this starts bothering you
Yeah, it's uh
Have I just hate traveling on New Year's Eve and I'm having some people over
And uh, we're gonna hang out
Excuse me by the fire pit and you know roast marshmallows makes some wars
But it's gonna be misty raining all day
Was this someone else earlier talking about a zone-minder? Are you still here whoever that was
Talking about what a zone-minder the uh, well camera IP cam app. There was someone here who was also using it. Oh
Redlocked. Yeah, he's gone as he
Yeah, he must even have in trouble, so he must have dropped out again and if it's permanent
Yeah, I'll say yeah, he's having he's having to mess years with his laptop. He said
Since the stuff's locking up on him, so
Lost him for the timing. Yeah, he was he was stuck well
Coming back to our conversation dude man. He was saying what he uses the raspberry pie for he's just a
Cheap webcam club didn't do it and with the raspberry pie. He's using that on a zone-minder
So I was you know, I was thinking about that well. It's that alternative to using those IP cameras we were talking about
Yeah, the normal cheap
Well, and I well he said is the webcam is using is a 50-dollar one
and a
Logitech and he said the video on it is still pretty grainy
So you're probably by the time you get everything you're up your raspberry pie set up and plugged into
Plug into a webcam
You probably not save it very much money. I think the I'm so sorry to interrupt you 50
I think the other thing with I thought about that with usb cameras. They might be a bit cheaper
But you're limited by cable length unless you use like a
Ethernet adapter, you know to get longer runs and buy the amount of cameras
So if you want more than one or two cameras, I think the IP camera is is a better way to go
Right, I was just thinking of that that you're not going to get much separation between your cameras if you just
say plug
Three cameras into the into the pie or or probably like I said the
More bang for the buck with the oh droids c1
Then that's probably kind of waste of the extra
extra processing power
Yeah, I would suggest that the the c1 is probably too underpowered if you want to connect the few cameras as well
You know if you want to do some detection some motion detection and stuff like that
Well, it's funny. I did get
What is it the a fuzz cam and a trend net little r2d2 type dudes the fuzz cam has the ir illuminators
Which work okay in a room indoors. I don't know about outdoors. How well they work
They're not outdoor cams, but I did want I have an overhang out by the pool and I figured it's never gonna see water
It may see 99% humidity, but I was thinking about giving it a try out there and
I got a vm running on my xp netbook with the zone monitor and I upgraded to one two eight
But I haven't been able to get the motion control to work correctly
And so you can move the camera around you mean yeah, yeah
There's in and don't confuse that so moving the camera around is one thing
And then the other thing is you can do motion detection and motion tracking
So when it sees an object moving it will actually follow the object
So I I've been up to my you know eyeballs and alligators and in the new house set and stuff up here and
I was ready to set a bounty on a vm, you know like a 32 bit vm so you're running on my netbook
for zone monitor one two eight and
And in this way somebody has it set up and configured with the cams for me
You've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org
We are a community podcast network that release the shows every weekday Monday through Friday
Today's show like all our shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is
Hecka public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com
If you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
On this otherwise status today's show is released on the creative comments
Attribution share a like three dot org license
