Episode: 1772
Title: HPR1772: Random thoughts
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1772/hpr1772.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 09:05:34

---

This is HPR episode 1772 entitled Random Thoughts.
It is hosted by Swift 110 and in about 12 minutes long.
The summary is, I talk about some of the things I appreciate in life.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15 that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello, this is Swift 110 and I was just laying around pretty much and I came to a certain
realization as I normally do after a nice long walk.
I realize that what I'm doing right now, a number of people with questions.
Part of what sparked this particular podcast is the fact that as I was sitting here at
a bench next to a community center and the foreground, the kids playing on the playground
in the distance.
I'm sitting here and I was eating some of my lunch that I brought in the sign that this
old wooden picnic table.
I happen to be absolutely comfortable, absolutely happy when a woman comes down or not down
the street, down the trail rather and she speaks, which is nice, high, high.
And then she brings my attention to a green roof nearby where they're seating underneath
and said that you know, it's a lot nicer than where you're at now.
You know, sometimes the littlest things a person can say, sparks, thought processes in
me.
I analyze it, I analyze it basically everything.
This time that analyzation I thought would be interesting because it goes back to how
people think and what's comfortable for one person.
Maybe completely different for another person.
For instance, myself sitting here or laying in the sun is perfectly comfortable.
It's relaxing.
I don't care what time it is.
But yet another person would be like, oh, I'm hot.
I'm hot.
It's uncomfortable.
And you're thinking about the bugs that are thinking about all that instead of just
sitting down and enjoying life for what it is.
So often we get used to our little artificial environment, we have our AC.
We got these controlled containers that we stay in during the day and we don't really
appreciate the natural life that God has given us.
We don't appreciate the sunlight on our face.
We don't appreciate the trees.
We don't appreciate the sound of children in the air enjoying themselves in the distance.
We divorce ourselves from such things.
We get trapped into this technological world where we're on a computer, we're on Facebook,
we're trying to find out what's going on with the latest celebrities.
I think we lose sight of who we really are as human beings when we do such things.
It takes us to a certain level of, you know, artificiality, I don't think we focus so
much on technology.
Ironically I'm using technology as a means of communicating my feelings and thoughts
right now.
And I don't find anything wrong with that in itself, but when we get to the point where
we're addicted and we have to constantly be connected to something all the time, then
it's a whole, a whole other issue, you know, we shouldn't always have to have headphones
out here.
We should always have to be texting somebody while we're walking down the street, just
be able to just sit down or relax and just kind of breathe.
As I speak right now, the sun is on me and I find it very uncomfortable.
The warming effects of something 93 million miles away from me, it's just a beautiful thing.
When I think of heats and light traveling from that far in galaxy, and yet I made a benefit
from it, I'm perfectly, you know, in this area where I can care less about what's going
on around me pretty much, just more so than during the moment.
The notion of just being alive, which I think is a tremendous privilege, sadly some people
today didn't wake up today.
Some people write me out of stuck in hospital beds, some people now are stuck in their homes,
some people are disabled to the point where they're not able to do what I'm going right
now.
They're just stuck in an environment where someone else has to do the very basic things
that sometimes I personally, and the rest of us probably take for granted on a day-to-day
basis, whether it's doing something as simple as feeding ourselves or going to the bathroom
or opening the door, walking outside, sometimes we lose sight of and forget these things.
It just gets me thinking, you know, of how we have gone so far from what we were made
to be in something totally else, another bad creation, so to speak.
This time, not of God, but really of ourselves to use that creation concept loosely, it just
really gets stuck into that artificial environment that we've created for ourselves, like I mentioned
earlier, where everything has to be so neat and tidy and controlled, it's no room for
spontaneity, no room for randomness, recklessness, no
room for those kind of things.
Sky is rather nice color, and it makes me think of a few weeks ago, I threw a couple of
my friends, they were just talking about how nice it is to just sit down, and not to be
at work, not to have to worry about somebody looking over your shoulder, not to have to worry
about crunching your clot for that day.
Those things are important, you gotta go to work and provide for yourself sometime, but
it's good to have other times where you just don't have to clock in, and so talking with
them was a very enjoyable thing, and just listening to the sounds in the ear, whatever
they may be, and having that experience in the middle of the city like we were, it's
pretty interesting, I would say the least, just, hmm, I don't know what's quite else what
else to say at this point, since you're on the birds, I'm finding out how much you hear
when you're not really trying to sound, it's just that way, I know if my mom was here,
she would be having a few days, because she was being in the sun like I do, that's something
we have in common, so it's kinda cool, incredibly relaxed right now, like this is pretty good,
actually more comfortable now that I would be at home in my own bed, just in the air, just
there, I guess, just a freedom of being outside of it, anyway, start, I'd be rammed
today, just start talking, and that's pretty much it, I'll see you next time.
Thanks for watching, I'll see you next time.
Thanks.
