Episode: 1600
Title: HPR1600: The zfs File System
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1600/hpr1600.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 05:38:17

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
This is JWP and I'm continuing my series on file systems.
Today I want to talk about ZFS.
With ZFS there's so much information out there and I got some really long things and so
I'm hoping that I can keep it from being fragmented, I've read it a couple of times and
basically ZFS is a combined file system and logical volume manager designed by Sun Microsystems
and the features of ZFS include protection against data corruption,
support for high storage capacities, efficient data compression, integration of concepts of
file system and volume management. It was one of the first file systems to use snapshots,
it has copy on right clones, continuous integrity, checking and automatic repair.
It has a feature called RAIDZ and native NFSV4 and something called ACLs.
ZFS was originally implemented as an open source software license under a common development
and distribution license, CDDL. The ZFS name is a registered trademark of Oracle,
of Oracle Corporation. Open ZFS is the umbrella project serving the open source alternative to ZFS.
In Linux, ZFS has several Linux implementations despite the fact that the GNU
general public license, GPL under which Linux kernel is licensed is incompatible with the
common development and distribution license or CDDL under which ZFS is distributed.
According to used license model, a single derived work of both projects cannot be legally distributed,
so it's not possible to simultaneously meet both license requirements due to ZFS and Linux kernel
to include ZFS and Linux kernel. ZFS would have to be cleanly re-implemented and patents
may hamper this. This problem is being worked around by providing kernel facilities through
separate kernel module, a technical solution for a legal problem that also being employed by
vendors and distributors of proprietary hardware drivers. Okay, so now we have something called
native ZFS on Linux. A native port of ZFS for the Linux products was produced by
the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, was released in March of 2013 with the following key
events. In 2008, it was prototyped to determine availability. In 2009, the initial ZO VL and Lester
support was given. In 2010, development moved from Github. In 2011, the Pasi-X layer was added
in 2011, the community, early adopters got it. In 2012, production usage of ZFS happened,
and in 2013, it was released as general release. Of the major Linux distributions,
Ubuntu and Gen2 have very good support for this flavor of ZFS on Linux, meaning that
the required packages can be installed from their own package repositories, and the configuring
of ZFS root system is well documented. Open ZFS announced in September of 2013 is a truly
open source successor to the ZFS project. Our community brings together developers of
I'm going to try to say this. Illy Mouls, FreeBSD, Linux, OSX platforms, and ride range of
companies that build products on top of open ZFS. Open ZFS is an outstanding storage platform
that encompasses functionality of traditional file systems, volume managers, with more consistent
reliability, functionality, and performance across all distributions.
Okay, now, I've used ZFS a lot on Open Indiana, and before that on Open Solaris,
I've never used it inside of Linux, and after studying in a while, and seeing that it can be
done in Ubuntu, I may try when I upgrade my LTS Ubuntu, I may use ZFS since it's in
the kernel now, or in the repository to do everything. All right, hey, I hope you enjoyed
this little file system thing. As always, I hope you have a great day, and if you need to reach me,
I'm at JWP5 at hotmetal.com. Already. Hey, thank you very much for your time.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how
easy it really is. Nekka Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
Infonomicon Computer Club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have
comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website,
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on
November. Create a comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
