Episode: 1431
Title: HPR1431: Talking Twenty Fourteen
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1431/hpr1431.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 02:15:46

---

Hello, HPR listeners. This is Jezra coming to you live from Studio Oomlot in beautiful
Petaloma, California. And this is then my bill and I still haven't
named my studio. So I'm over here. Well, maybe you should name it. I should name it.
We can have an HPR account. Oh, no, I don't want to. I can imagine the submissions.
So this is our, it seems like we talk what? Once a year? Yeah, about once a year.
Our predictions for the year, which usually don't come true. Well, you're close on one.
It's funny though, because you and I talk online, probably 340 days out of the year, and
we only talk with our voices once. Yeah, you know, I just listen to you every now and
then on HPR. So it's, it's fine. Yeah, I caught your recent one too. I didn't forget your voice.
I should make a new one. I've got something in the, in the pipeline. So you're not using
your Yoda stand with the Red Rider BB gun? No, the Red Rider is not here right now.
So I used a little bit of tape and a broom and made a nice sweet hanging microphone stand,
which works. You know, I'm still using a, it's like 13 or 14 dollars for a USB mic that
I spent a couple of years back. And it still works just fine. So I'm not going to change
the setup. A hanging mic. You're hanging it somehow. Well, okay. It's a leaning mic because
I'm just leaning the broom on the futon, which has got the mic hanging from it. So it's
all good. We spare no expense. Top of the line. I'm talking into a little, what do you call
these? Lavalier mics, little tie clip mics. Oh, what kind of mic? Those little ones, like
somebody's at a conference and they clip it on their lapel or their tie. Oh, sometimes newscasters.
I forgot my microphone in Britain, in England. This is why we didn't do this before Christmas
because I was waiting for that microphone to get back. Oh, got it. Yeah. So you have a lapel mic,
is it still USB? Nope, it's just a quarter. Well, here's what happened. Oh, I should record
this too. Oh, I did. Always record. No, I hit record on the Zoom. Yeah. So like last year
for Northeast Linux Fest, I ordered a Zoom H1. And I think I've mentioned this before.
It arrived at my door like while I was pulling into Boston. So I couldn't use it.
And then Ogcamp was coming up and I knew we were going to try and get some interviews.
And the Zoom H1 is awesome. If you can turn it on, hit record and put it down. And
because as soon as you touch it, it gets all kinds of handling noise and acoustic. So I didn't know
going to Ogcamp, how I was going to hand hold this thing. So I brought my big microphone.
And then at the last minute, I go, well, what if I get one of these little tie clip microphones,
at least I could hold that or clip it onto the Zoom. So I got one of those and it came the day
before we left. So I didn't have time to do any testing. So I tested it. I don't know if you heard
when we were ironing shirts that that bonus clip one. Not that I can recall. All right. Well,
that was just me using the H1 with this tie clip mic just to see how it worked. I didn't plan on
putting it up as an HPR, but the guys wanted to hear it anyways. But so it turns out that this
laverlier mic or this tie clip mic works really well. So we didn't use the big microphone.
So the first day, I took the stickers off the table. Tim Timmy took all the tech, all the phones,
all the microphones. And then the next day, I don't think we put the microphone back out. And I
never even thought about it. And Tim Timmy didn't. And we all got home and he had my microphone. And
that's why I'm talking into this little tiny, tiny microphone. Well, is it doing a decent job
with your recording? I hope so. We'll see. I got the Zoom H1-2 going as a backup. But it seems
the wave is okay in audacity. It just looks a little silly. I have this little tiny mic on an
actual mic stamp. Well, sometimes that's all you need. So are once you talk a chat with Bill and
Jess? Yes, predictions for the great new year. What's going to happen in the world of
FOS? We're FOS, however you want to say it. We should say one of last year's predictions that you
had was a Unix on a tablet or Linux on a tablet. Oh, yeah, but it kind of happened.
Kind of. Did you see the ping pod? Yeah, yeah. I mean, that's so you squeaked by. I think that
counts. That prediction did slightly happen. It wasn't worldwide. Well, you're not going to count that.
No, not at all. I want proper Linux. And when I say proper Linux, I'm talking
GNU Linux. I want that on a tablet. Well, this was proper Linux. And it was a tablet. It's just
it's a one-man operation, I think. Oh, was was ping pod the company shipping a device
that is a tablet with GNU Linux on it? Not dual boot, not Android. You can flash it later.
GNU Linux on the device as it ships from the manufacturer. A guy in our log bought one,
and I did play with it, but I don't know if like there's a Android and the Linux is shoehorned
on the side. So now I don't know that part. Well, dang. Okay, good. So I'm still zero for zero
hours as far as everything goes. So that's nice. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So what about what about the
year? What do you think is going to happen, Bill? I have no idea. I hope Flash dies in a fire.
I've been fighting with Flash for two days. Oh, I guess,
Adobe is no longer going to support Flash for Linux. Well, so nothing's really changed.
Yeah, exactly. Well, this this is the like kind of end of life. So this last one and my wife
did an update on her mint laptop and Flash halfway broke like some Flash works and some
movies won't load. And I've just been fighting with it for two days trying to get that going. So
that's my prediction. Flash will go even further down the tubes. I guess now they're trying to
like team up with Google and just do Flash on the Google devices or the Chrome devices. So
which it's still GNU Linux with Flash on it. Well, yeah, but yeah. Well, I'm not going to get into that.
But there's not much I can do, though, because my wife watches like Korean content and they didn't
change any of that to what's that new codec that like YouTube's using.
Uh, W something WebM WebM WebM WebM is empty Vp8,
Vp9 or something. Oh, there are H264 on your tubes now. I don't know. Yeah, it seems like neither of us know. So
we'll stop guessing. Okay, go get the app like the little command line utility YouTube DL.
Well, these are YouTube. It's it's Korean. Oh, we got it. Got it. Yeah, actual Korean websites.
So until they switch which they want. Yeah, she's going to want to use Flash. So yeah, and I am her IT
department. Oh, boy. How about this for a prediction? At some point in 2014, one of the contemporary
Linux based mobile devices will come out with a version that has a working file uploader in HTML.
Are we leading towards phones with this conversation? Oh, you know, phones, tablets,
other such mobile devices one might have in the pocket that have web browsers on them. Someone
might open up a web browser, go to a website that has a file upload form, like has an input,
and it will work and they will be able to select a local file and upload it. You mean like a
something like a Dropbox or something? No, well, well, I don't know. Is that how Dropbox works? Like
select file on your local device and upload it or say my media goblin, you know, you select the
photos you want to upload and click push. So that's that's not working on which of your devices.
Did I say that it's not working on one of my devices? Oh, I thought
well, because it's sure as shit not working on one of my devices and that would be the shitty Firefox OS
device that I have. Yeah, you said last time that you did not own a phone. Do you still not
own a phone? Or is that considered a phone? Does that make phone? Oh, that is that's definitely makes
phone calls. It's good at making phone calls. I'll give it that. Yep, it's a phone that makes phone
calls. But it doesn't do much. And it has these. Well, it's got a substandard web browser and
I guess people make applications for it. It's hard as hell to update the software that's on it and
without compiling it yourself. I mean, isn't this early days for that? Isn't that like a developer
device? Well, it would be a developer device if you like to punch developers in the game.
Okay, now we have our rating. Yep. Well, I'm sure you know, through a couple of fucking swear words
in there anyhow. Yeah. No, I just, geez, every eighth dent that you put out was complaining about
that thing. You haven't been having a good time. Oh, no, no. Well, I haven't been having a good time
with it because I've been using it. You're trying to like it. No, no, no, I'm trying to use it.
If I put it down and don't, if I don't use it for anything other than phone calls,
I probably won't make a complaint about it. But as soon as I try to do anything else,
I will have complaints about it. Oh, actually, that's not true. The other decent thing that
this can do. So I have a ZTE open. It is a piece of crap. But it is good for making phone calls.
It is a telephone. And it is good for going into the settings and turning on, I better go find out
what the setting is called just to make sure I see it right. Internet sharing. And then once I have
internet sharing turned on, I can connect with a laptop or my wonderful N900 and then access the
Internet. So it's tethering. Yeah. So where are the roadblocks for? You've been like trying to
develop stuff for this or it's just oh, absolutely not. It's not enough. I've it's it's too hot. Okay.
Wow. Jack, come on. This is not getting unloaded. This is not getting into predictions for
the new year. But the first issue I had was I thought I would be a good citizen. And hey,
I got this device. It's running Firefox. I'm going to submit a bug. First thing like the first day
I had it found a bug, submitted the bug a few weeks went by and then I found out that the most recent
version of Firefox OS, the one that all the developers of Firefox OS are developing. This bug
had been fixed weeks ago, months ago. It's just that my version of Firefox OS on my device was so
old and outdated that there's no point in me submitting a bug because either someone else may
have already submitted it or it just doesn't exist in newer versions of the OS. Unfortunately,
it's almost impossible to get newer versions of the OS onto this device unless I compile the entire
OS myself. So it's like they have a bug tracker and when a new version comes out, they just abandon
the old tracker and it's not that they abandon the old tracker. It's that when I got my device,
it was running version 1.0. All of the developers of Firefox OS were either on version 1.2 or 1.3.
Gotcha. And so if I find a bug, I won't bother submitting it because I've already submitted a bug.
If I were to submit a bug, I would be needing to be running the latest software for the
for Firefox OS, the latest Firefox OS version. If I were running that and I found a bug,
I would submit it. Now you mentioned that you submitted a bug and it was already fixed ages ago
and they didn't go back and close it out in like the one oh, I don't know what you would call it,
but the no, the bug still exists in 1.0 version, but nobody's going to use it except for you.
Well, oh yeah, no, there are plenty of other idiots who have bought the ZTE Open Firefox OS device.
I'm not the only idiot who bought it and it's compiling a bear or oh yeah, it's not compile a small
piece of the OS or compile one app and then push it up onto the device as you compile the entire OS.
And I don't think I have the time to go into what a hassle the setup of the build environment is
or compiling this. It's, it's, it's obscene, it's obscenely intricate.
This is only one device, right? So why, why couldn't they compile it and then have a version
somewhere for everybody to pull in? It's, it's not like it's on 14 different devices or
because then someone would be sharing a proprietary binary. Oh,
because it's an ARM device. That doesn't sound open. Of course, it's not open.
Oh, prediction for 2014, an ARM at someone who makes ARM devices will consider
open sourcing a graphics driver. They'll consider it. I'm not sure how this
someone using ARM, I think ARM is just an architecture that hardware manufacturers license.
Yep, I don't think ARM builds anything. Oh, no, they don't. But those hardware manufacturers also
have to pick a video graphics chip for their devices. Okay, so they have to pair something up with it.
All right. And so there are no ARM based devices with graphics that are open source drivers.
Are there open graphics devices that could be used? I have no idea. Based on what, probably not,
but I don't know. Prediction. I will not build one. Maybe anyone's just a prick.
Prediction. Jesser is going to complain about a lot more hardware in 2014.
No, I'm probably not going to buy any ARM things in 2014. I will probably stick with Intel.
I talked, I talked last time about being stuck with my Motorola droid in the Android
and I did upgrade to a Samsung and I am still in the Android. Yeah, you can't get away from it.
No, yeah. It's like a soft monopoly. What are the chances of putting Ubuntu touch on that
they're Samsung? For myself, personally zero zero. What about on your old Android? Oh, yeah,
the Motorola did run Android Motorola droid. No, no, I meant installing Ubuntu touch on that,
but it's Motorola. So it's probably locked down too. I don't have much desire to try Ubuntu touch,
but I suppose I would if I could. Yeah, it's just sitting in a drawer doing nothing.
Then I said, yes, you get the desire, not the device, the desire, but the the desire to
you're really selling it. Yeah, I have to say it that way. Try Ubuntu touch on it.
If it's if it's possible, I've realized I am not a phone guy. As much I do, I really do like
this Samsung in the screen size is nice, but I use mustard and I text my wife once in a while and
maybe eight times a month. I make a phone call and seven of them are for work. So I really don't
once I come home, I put it on, I put it on the yeah, yeah, I'll cut that out. I put it on the end
table and I don't touch it again all night. Yeah, see, all the more reason to put Ubuntu touch on it,
so you can make it useful. How about I send it to you and you put Ubuntu touch on it?
How about I look and do some research to see if it's possible to put Ubuntu on it and then I say,
hey, why don't you send it to me and I'll send you some money for shipping. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, we can do that. Yeah, if you have a desire to look into it at all, it's really doing nothing.
A desire. He got me doing it. I'm not going to say it like that.
Prediction for 2014. Yeah. And why Bill sends me some of his old crap. That's right. It's a big box.
I told you I was clean in the basement. I have a whole pile.
Awesome. Maybe just a small box with a small device and it would be awesome.
Yeah, I'm joking. I'm not going to unload on you. We have someone in our lug that will take
anything that poor kid. Zapper, if you're out there, I don't know how you can walk through your house.
Horting old tech, huh? Uh, he's a young kid and I mean, he's probably just like we all were at 18
and when he got into the lug, his eyes just went wide and everybody goes, hey, you want this?
You want this? And now he's taking so much stuff. I really don't know where he's putting it all.
He probably takes it all apart. Awesome. Zapper, take it apart. Oh, I'm sure he does. Yeah.
Very cool. Uh, last time we mentioned, we'll hey, buddy, work with pump.io. And I think the answer
is no. Oh, the answer is definitely no. Yeah, we figured that one out. Yeah. I should probably go
ahead and change the description of that because it no longer works with ideneca because ideneca is
now running on pump.io. Yeah, we did update the the read me to say that it runs on status net and
now this GNU social things coming along. Yeah. I haven't even actually been following the progress
of that and I probably should because I just moved my status instance from the triple EPC in my
living room to a $9 a month VPS somewhere in Texas. Oh, you're in the cloudy clouds now.
Oh, I'm on a $9 per year VPS per year. How's the uptime on that?
Uh, you know, it's probably pretty decent. Okay. I'll let you know. So far, I haven't had any
problems. I've had my status instance on there for about three or four days. Yeah, I haven't been
following the GNU social either. I'm going to have to look into it as well. I saw an update that
they're going to get moving on it and then they're going to start building a servers and then the
next comment I saw it was Matt Lee. He said, uh, and then we will allow people to join those servers,
which doesn't sound like the status that I know. Like we like to run our own instances, but he could
have just could have just been lost in translation with 140 characters. Uh, it certainly could be. I
could definitely see FSF doing SFS social or whatever. Yeah, big. Big instance. Yeah. Here's the big
instance and then everyone else has their home installs or whatever sort of installation that they've
got. Yep. Okay. Yeah, because I continue to I don't know if status net will just one day turn
into this or we are going to have to make an effort to change because you know how every time
you touch status net, it falls over like house of cards. Oh, kind of. Yeah. I'm a bit leery to
even look at the database. Oh, don't even look. Yeah, you know, I should probably go and clear out my
data. Well, um, do something to streamline the database in my VPS? Hmm. Well, I suppose I can do a
custom snapshot backup of my linoid. Try the install. If it doesn't work, I can just pull the
pull the snapshot backup. All right. I should be all right. There's options. There's always options.
So predictions 2014. What have you got common, Bill? I said mine already. Oh, come on. Think up
something. I think even though I'm not a gamer, I'm liking all this steam OS stuff I'm hearing and
I think this will, if they can pull it off, it seems like they are. I think it's going to be popular.
But I'm just wondering what it's going to be like again to have, I'm sure 90% of the steam gamers
are like not Linux people. So it's going to be strange having a whole flood of non-Linux users come
into forums and things. But yeah, that's fun to watch. It's like, will they come into forums, though?
Actually, yeah, now that you say that, I'm sure steam's going to have their own forums.
All right, it's just, it's interesting to watch. There was always the, uh, this is the year of Linux
desktop, which is never going to happen. Linux will be on your desktop, but it's just running that
piece of hardware. You don't even know it's there. I'm sure steam's going to be all locked down.
So that's more, not really a prediction, but that's, I'm enjoying watching that.
Or will it be locked down? There are, I think, 13 or 15 manufacturers of steam boxes or steam Linux
devices. Well, I mean, locked down by like, when you turn it on, it boots right to, it's like
myth TV would just boot right to steam. You don't go to a desktop and then start an app and
where somebody doesn't know what they're doing because they're clicking around and suddenly you
got hundreds of people calling steam support thing. Uh, you know, I screwed up my Linux.
It is a Linux based game appliance. Yes. You turn it on. It does its thing and it does it very well.
I guess what I'm interested, once interesting about it to me is that
games were always a Windows thing and even being a Windows thing, they were a pain in the
butt to use. You always constantly had to upgrade. So it's going to be interesting if it runs much
smoother on Linux and you know, starts getting some momentum to it. How much of the game community
is going to be pulled away from Windows? Is that a prediction? It's not a prediction at all. I'm
making an observation. Then I say you, you convert it into some sort of prediction by saying,
team will be successful by the end of 2014. And how are you going to judge that successfulness?
The same way I'm doing right now watching it from afar. I don't know. I suppose if you start seeing
commercials for the device, next Christmas or yeah, actually, I didn't really walk into this
with many predictions. So let's hear yours. That's oh, I think I already said mine too.
Mostly I just want to take a jab at some manufacturers of hardware. The next thing we talked about
last time was projects, which projects, we did projects and what are you looking forward to in the
new year? If we're going to follow the same format of I think we probably should. I think we probably
should. So what are you working on? Projects. I'm going to take a few of my software projects
that I've been working on for the last year and a half, two years or so and start putting them into
a box with a touch screen of some sort as a semi-home automation sort of system.
Not quite a L-carsish, if you will, but something that has maybe a seven-inch touch screen
and runs the UIs for a Mutton Chop instance, which is a music player, Glimmer, which is the
LED light controller and the Ruby WebAlarm project, at least those three. So that somewhere in my place,
there will be a seven-inch touch panel and I can just walk up to the panel and touch it and
settle arms in the house, change the lights and change the music slash video type side.
Remind of me, last time we had a whole big start check discussion and you're going more towards
an enterprise. You're going to have a touch screen on your wall. Yeah, awesome. And of course
some voice controlled stuff too. You already got some of that going on, right? Yeah, I need more.
Need more things playing Iron Maiden. Not necessarily that I need more things playing
Iron Maiden, but I need more ways to play Iron Maiden. Nice.
Me, sadly, I find that I'm not using the RPI as much as I thought I would.
However, I have some nephews that just turn eight and I can tell they're
getting into computers. So my project is going to be getting this thing all set up for a
young user and I'm going to gift it, gift it over that way. So keyboard, mouse,
set up a kid-friendly distro on it and get a new generation of hackers going. What about
kid-friendly programming environments like scratch? Yes, that looks into that.
That's exactly. I was talking with his, the kids while he's my brother-in-law,
mentioning that I was planning on doing this. I run these things by him first because I don't
know if he's going to be the one that's sitting there watching him and I did mention scratch to him
or showing him screenshots and he was he was all for it. Awesome. And if I miss it, I can just buy
another one for 30 bucks or actually there's quite a few boards coming out now. Guys are
every time we go to the lug seems like somebody has a new type of RPI device. And when you say an RPI
type device, you mean a small fairly inexpensive crappy ARM-based device with a proprietary
video card? No, I mean a wonderful device. No, yeah, it's a small device that has GPIO pins.
Oh, okay. With all those other restrictions, you just laid on it. Yeah.
And then the, do you have more? No, I just I just want to damn X86 device with GPIO pins.
Didn't Intel just make one of those? I think they did. They did like their Mino board thing and
it was like 200 bucks. Oh, AMD's got one too and it's like 200 bucks. I'm sure they would send
you a review unit if you send them a nice postcard. You know, I've sent plenty of postcards and I
haven't received shit. Well, except from other postcards from other awesome people who send postcards.
Yeah, postcard. The postcard club. Still get one every once in a while. It's the mailbox is where
you go to get junk mail or people wanting money from you. And it just gives me a nice smile
when every once in a while there's something fun in there. Yeah, typically, typically I refer to
going to the mailbox as bringing in the recycling. Yeah, actually I roll our recycling bin out where
they're going to pick it up on Monday nights and I open the mailbox then and I just dump dump dump and
I pull in the bills. That's bringing the bills into the house and pay people money. Aren't you normally
in the house? No, I'm saying I roll the recycling bin. It was a bill joke bill bill. That was a bill joke.
How is that a bill joke? Your name is Bill. Oh, wow. Okay, you bring the bills into the house. He'll
be here all week, folks. We need a rim shot. Then the last thing we talked about last time are
super duper. Let's talk about us format is what are you looking forward to in 2014? Aside from the
predictions of tech that's going to come out. Oh, hold on a second. Back the truck up. Did you see
that Belkin is making a Linux powered networked crockpot? Crockpot. A crockpot. It's just what
the guys in my air see. The lug air see we're talking about. They were joking about a smartphone
crockpot. So maybe that's what they meant. They weren't joking. No, I didn't see that. But what I
did see recently, which looks interesting was a link. This is coming out with kind of a WRT 54G
replacement, which is open hardware, open APIs, running Linux. That might be interesting. Very high
price point. Oh, yeah, it was like 300 bucks. Oh, and again, that is also Belkin. Belkin now
owns Linksys. I did not know that. Oh, really? I thought it was still a shitty Cisco owned them.
For 2014, for me is Northeaf Linux Fast is coming up. That should be fun. And this year there's a
hope in New York City. So two events I'm looking forward to. Well, I will be going to
I have no idea. This must be something going on and on the left coast. Well, there's the Northern
California beard and mustache competition in April and Sacramento, California. I'll probably be
going to that. But that's not exactly that's not really floss right there. That's a you just got
to wear a Linux t-shirt and everything's fine. Oh, okay. And yeah, I should probably look to see
what's going on with scale. I'll see you find out when that's going to happen. Is that a yearly?
Yes, it is. But it is down in smell A. So that's a problem. Oh, yeah, that's
you don't have a train that runs that way. No, you're thinking of other countries that care
about their infrastructure and people around efficiently. What if they made a locked down arm-based
train away from Petaluma? He's throwing his microphone. No, it would it would run Windows RT
and I would not get on it. Oh, predictions for 2014. The death of Windows RT.
Official death, not just oh, yeah, no one's buying it. I mean, official like, oh, sorry, we
fucked up. You're you're getting really, are you touching your microphone or something?
No, why what's that? You're getting really loud like it's almost like you're
oh, maybe I'm getting heated and aggravated. Is the sideburn touching the microphone?
Oh, you know, it definitely is. Come on, those things back now. But that's that's the red phone.
That's not the phone or that's not the mic that I'm actually recording with.
Oh, I see. Yeah, you're talking to me on the red phone and a mic is recording with to audacity.
Yes. Okay, nobody nobody will hear this. Well, they will have the sounds of
gestures side-side burns. If it gets into, well, we'll hear the conversation. So my current setup
for recording this conversation, by the way, I have my laptop, which is a za reason alto.
I am running audacity to record through a USB microphone. And I am using mumble for communication
and the red phone. Yeah, I'm just using the e for audacity and mumble. And
since the h1 is right here, I just do a backup with that. The thing gets amazing.
Two two gig SD card on that thing lasts like 60 hours. Wow.
I wonder what format does it record to? That is the lowest. That might be MP3.
And then you don't want to hear about the switch that goes to WMA. That cuts it down to like two hours.
No, I don't want to hear about the switch. But I know, I know some other HPR people did
buy this device. So if you are having handling noises, problems with it, try the
tie clip mic, like I mentioned, plug it in, wrap it around and clip it right to the
cage around the h1 and it works good. Well, if the problem has to do with actually handling and
touching the device, I would suggest making a hat with a boom on it and then suspending the
recording device from the boom so that when you are interviewing someone, you have this
hitting them in the eyeball. Well, you don't have to violate their personal bubble.
I even went to the extent of taking the whole thing apart on screwing the mics from the plastic
and then doing some test recordings while they weren't touching any of the body and then thinking
I could wrap them in foam or something. But that just looked like it would break and transit
or something. So I put it all back together with the external mic. That sounds like the best option.
Although I really like the idea of a hat with a boom and a suspended recording device,
I think that would be great. So at scale, when you want to do an interview, look for the guy with
the hat and the boom and the suspended device. I am at the end of my bullet points.
I did not make any notes whatsoever because I'm a slacker. Yeah, well, I have to make these bullet
points where I'll just go, uh, uh, hmm. So we're wrapping it up. I think we can wrap it up.
Okay. So we're going to do a contact info, I guess. Uh, sure. Um, you can go first.
Okay. Yeah. So, uh, that's another, uh, conversation with us.
And if anybody wants to contact me, I am NY Bill at gunmonkeynet.net. And oh, oh, yeah.
Well, you can find me on status net, but I've said it so many times. I think all the people that
are interested coming in there are in there already. So yeah, over to you.
And I'm Jezra. I can be reached, uh, send an email to Jezra at Jezra.net. Yeah, because I'm that guy.
And I also have a personal status instance. It is status dot Jezra.net. And I like coffee. And you
can go see all about that at coffee dot Jezra.net. And on that note, play the music.
Till next time, guys.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. Those are,
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on day through Friday.
Today's show like all our shows was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dot pound and the economical and computer cloud.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are proudly sponsored by
Lina pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to Lina pages.com for all your hosting
needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a life, lead us our lives please.
