Episode: 1866
Title: HPR1866: An awkward talk with two young computer users
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1866/hpr1866.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 10:25:04

---

This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthos.com, get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15, better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthos.com
Hey, this is Koopmo for Hacker Public Radio. Today I have with me two young computer users. I have Emily. How old are you?
How old are you? I am 10. And I have Eric. How old are you? 15. Okay, Emily. How did you get started with computers? Did I?
Well, first I got my brother's old computer. I see. And then what do you do with your computer? I play Minecraft on it. Do you? And anything else?
I watch videos on it. Eric, how did you get started with computers? Well, when I first started using computers, it was you guys's computer in your room and I just used it to play games online.
And anything else? Sometimes I watch YouTube videos. Okay. Emily, what operating system did you use? Linux. And why do you use Linux? Because Linux is cool. And does it work good for you?
Yeah. Awesome. Eric, what operating system do you use? Windows 7.
And that works good for you? Yeah. Now, you just recently started using Windows 7 because of school, correct? Yeah. And what did you use before that?
Windows 8. Windows 8. And how did that work out for you? Not very good. Not very good. And why is that? Because it sucks. It's hard to do things.
Really? Now, why we discussed that you needed to use Windows for school? What do you do in school? Well, sometimes I need to use Microsoft Word or something like Photoshop.
So expensive programs? Yeah. Okay. Is that the only operating system you've ever used? I've used Linux. How did that work for you?
That's fine, but a lot of programs aren't compatible with Linux. What kind of programs do you want to use that aren't compatible with Linux? Like a lot of games.
So, Emily, what are your hopes and plans for using computers in the future? I don't know.
You're going to continue to play Minecraft and watch videos? Yeah. Anything else? No.
Eric, what are your hopes and plans for using computers? I don't know. You don't know. Well, my school uses Windows 8 and I hope they change it because it's really stupid.
Well, that's not nice. I'm sure they're going to upgrade to newer versions of operating systems. Yeah, I just don't like how they have this screen where there's everything. I like it. How it used to be where it was normal.
Do people who listen to this show not like Windows? There's all kinds of people who listen to this show. It might leaning that way. I'm sorry. I shouldn't do that.
Let's see. Are you hoping for a career in computers? Well, I want to make the new games by programming. What kind of skills do you need to learn to do that?
What do you mean? I mean, what kind of things do you need to learn to make video games? Well, I need to learn how to program tutorials and stuff.
Do you know what operating what I'm sorry? What languages you need to learn to program games? What languages are our games programmed in?
Well, there's C++. There's Java. I guess Python. Yeah.
And that's what you're learning through your school. Well, not right now, but I think we're going to learn about that.
And Emily, you don't have any thoughts in the future. I mean, you've got a long time to think about it. All right. Well, that was a short discussion with two young computer users. I hope I haven't leaned it too far one way or the other. Thank you.
Put out an episode so you don't have to listen to another awkward one. All right. This is Scoob Mo out.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
