Episode: 1383
Title: HPR1383: HPR Community News for October 2013
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1383/hpr1383.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 00:37:09

---

some weird voice out there right?
Let's papel Goblins!
Hi, everybody. My name is Ken Phalan. You're listening to community news for Hacker Public Radio October 2013. Right. Yes. Great start. Join me tonight.
Hello. Hello. And Dave Morris. Hello. Dave, you're going to have to speak. Oh, sorry. Push the tool. Excellent. For those of you joining for the first time, HPR is a community network. And every month, we as members of the community take it upon ourselves to sit here in a mumble chat room and have a chat about what's going on in the last month or so. We do record it. The first the Saturday before the first
Monday of the month, which causes a lot of problems for Dave and the schedule. And we just go through the shows, introduce new hosts and talk about anything that's been on the mailing list or anything that's coming up. And without further ado, somebody else is going to introduce the new hosts. I don't have that for me. That would be because it is here. I'll paste you in the link. Okay. I can do it. We have new hosts David Wilson, Neanderkeek,
Tony Palais and Richard Hughes. Welcome to all of you to the HPR. So what we usually tend to do is start off by going through the shows that were in the last month. So the first show was 1347. And it was Linux jazz by Brian. And that was a welcome return for Brian, man.
Who gave us a rundown on his setup again. The sort of what's in my bag, sort of deal. Very cool show. I thought interesting inside into the life of a musician. That one indeed completely Linux now. Yeah. I like his interstitials. A lot of production value goes into issues online. The following day, we had a 1340, which was few.
This was by Mr X. Mr X brought you the soldering series to which I'm eternally grateful now that I've become an official soldier person. And this one, I was expecting to be on the Linux file system in user space, but it turned out to be something completely different.
Many on the way to have to say, sorry. Yeah, that was it was interesting, but not what I expected.
And that's kind of the life is like a box of chocolates here in HPR. Very completely of interest to hackers don't get us wrong here, Mr X, but I think he tricked us all with that one.
And for those wondering, he was a they who haven't listened to the show, he had a second world war fuse that the story was about a second world war fuse that his grandfather had taken back. He was on a bomb disposal team.
And yeah, let's just run down a little short story on that very interesting took me back to the days of my youth because I worked.
Yeah, I want to say late 68 early 69 for a company that was manufacturing fuses for shells that I think went to the end up.
Oh, very interesting. Oh gosh.
Okay, the following day Melissa Duprest helps me with audio compression from John Colp.
And she was a I believe she's an audio professor in University of Louisiana and basically was going through audacity and explaining some of the values and stuff.
Yeah, interesting that John Colp didn't know that much about it. It was one of those things I would have expected him to know about, but it was it was a good episode.
Indeed it was. And then the following day we had the origins of all in ICS by Gabrielle even fire. Oh my God.
That is all I can say about this unbelievable. What about the kind of worms he opened up for himself here, but oh my God.
It's it's I was lost to words for this. So this is amazing collection of tools and things. Yeah.
And then it's like, you know, it's the one to change a light bulb, but the light bulb was out. So I had to.
I went to the press to get a light bulb and the press door fell off and then the press store fell off. So I went to the garage to get a screwdriver and the garage door fell off. So it just.
Yeah, a whole complete total framework on and I know exactly what he's trying to do and seems like very, very, very interesting.
If anybody is working for an ISP or on the front line of a networking.
If networking is part of your life on a day-to-day basis, if you know MRTG or RRD tool or stuff like that, then give the show a listen. It will be well, well, well worth your help.
All sorts of tools also.
Yeah, yeah. No, I just looking at my notes here. I actually downloaded and tried to build it, but unfortunately I didn't manage to get it to build, but something to come back to.
Yeah. Yeah. The microphone hack, you were saying. That was pretty, pretty cool. Just kind of proves that you can do, you can, you can make anything.
I don't know. Somebody put the sentals together from you, please. It's the hacker ethos, isn't it? It doesn't work. Make it work.
By some means or other.
Anyway, community news for August appearing in the middle of what month was that the 10th two months later?
October, October.
Anyway, there you go. The following day we had a Stanford Marshmallow experiment given to us by Zachary DeSantos, who some of you might remember as being the chap who I interviewed previously at Oddcamp 13, and he was doing this sky.
He had two kites, and he was having the movements of the kite compose music, and then he later submitted a show, some audio clip of a stream flowing.
I didn't quite put the bits together, I'm afraid. I remember the stream, but I hadn't realized he was Oddcamp.
Yeah, he was upstairs doing the two kites.
Yeah, I remember that bit.
How cool.
Yes, well, this was the story of a lot of controversy.
Yes.
Wasn't quite clear what this had to do with kites or streams or probably both.
In the show notes for the Stanford Marshmallow experiment, and I better read it out.
The Stanford Marshmallow experiment refers to a series of studies on delayed gratification in the late 60s and early 70s by, we'll add by blah, blah, blah.
In these studies, child was offered a choice of a smaller board, sometimes marshmallow, provided immediately, or two small rewards.
If he or she waited until the experimental, experimental return after approximately 15 minutes.
In follow-up studies, the rare search has found that children who were able to wait longer for the preferred reward tended to have better life outcomes, such as measured by SAT scores, educational attainment, body mass index, and other life measures.
However, reached this work calls into question whether self-control as opposed to strategic reasoning determined child's behavior.
So folks, we all, the gods, Stanford Marshmallow experimented.
Where was the gratification?
I didn't get it.
Didn't get any.
The gratification?
The marshmallow.
Delay, don't know.
The marshmallows in the post.
All right.
I think any hitch for our booth from now on, right?
We have to bring marshmallows for people who listen to that show.
But no, classic.
Again, this month was full of surprises.
None less surprising than introduction to units on practical math, Charles N.A.J. in N.J., managing to pull me along by my teeth.
And here on Maths, I suspect that once we leave introduction to units and go on arm to actually do something about units, he will lose me.
But so far, he seems to be pulling me along on this series.
I love what Charles is doing and just look forward to that series continuing for a long time.
I have to admit, I had to listen to this more than once.
Partly because I'm not very good at listening to podcasts, concentrating hard as I have to.
Because there's this terrible tensi being an old guy to doze off.
And there was happen more than once.
But I got through and it's fantastic.
Oh, I really enjoyed it.
It was fantastic.
Well, I do.
It was cool.
Well, you wait till you get to my age.
You're the same will happen to you.
Dave, I'm not too far away from everything.
What I do do with his shows because I know they're coming.
I make sure that it's late in the afternoon on my way home from work and his show notes are absolutely excellent.
But you must read along with the show notes, or at least I must.
Yes.
And then the following day is Mr Gadgets with Attribute to Wayne Green.
And I would like to thank Mr Gadgets for doing this.
I think we, he is doing testimonial series here for us.
And cotton stuff into context, you know, that would be just a two line note on the news.
Even if that met the news or, you know, in some footnotes on the tech journal, RSS feed.
And to hear the context, the effect that this person has had on his life is.
He's a true testimonial, I think.
Yeah, good show.
Absolutely, yes.
It's a fan of bite.
I never really understood it.
Nice to read it.
My brother used to have, he had the whole series of them in his flat at one stage.
Wow, very interesting.
The following day, we had Mr Ahuka with Libra Office writer Bullitt Styles deconstructed.
And you have some good news for the followers of the series of Huka.
I'm not sure what you're referring to.
Recent uploads.
Oh, oh, I have some good news.
Okay.
I've uploaded three more shows.
And yeah, I mean, I, I plan by the end of winter to have uploaded enough shows to take me through 2014.
Excellent.
I'm sorry, I thought for a minute you were saying someone had good news for me.
No, no, no, no.
Then the following day, we had, so you've just installed arch Linux, no, what many series by 5150, who I just found out recorded is after doing a Linux cranks episode.
So he must be completely tired.
I'm liking this episode, although I don't choose arch myself.
I'm liking the series of it.
It's got me thinking about it.
I've heard enough people talk about why they like arch that I've thought, you know, one of these days I had to give it a look.
Yeah, I've tried a lot, right?
Of course, I don't think I post it on my main desktop.
Yeah, I've, I'm in the same position.
I've started to look at it.
I'm not sure I want to run it, but maybe one day.
And I'll be back to this these episodes to listen, I think, when that happens.
I think you, from what I hear is you need to update regularly and read show notes or read show notes.
Everything in my life is show notes.
No, read the release notes.
So that, that right, there are things a lot of work to me.
Okay, the following day, what's in my bag series was by Jim's Michael DuPont.
And I liked this episode simply because of the fact that he doesn't have a bag.
Or if he does, he's kind of old school.
No laptop, no phone, and no mobile, I mean, and living close to where he works.
Lots of similarities between his life choices and my own.
So I did enjoy this show, I must say.
Yeah.
Impressive, I thought.
Yeah.
Living without a car, doing a lot of walking and taking public transport sounds very European.
And using a bike.
The first place I went to when I was in the States was Kansas City, believe it or not.
And we were, we were actually shocked by the fact that there's no pavements or sidewalks.
The hotel was straight across from the place where we were working in Overland Park.
And you could see it from the hotel, like, it would be a five, ten-minute walk.
But there was no way for a pedestrian to get over to the other side.
And one of our, one of our managers was decided to get up every one day of walk over.
And somebody slowed down in the car beside them and said, Hey, honey,
oh, you want to ride, honey?
Yeah, that's the United States for you on both counts.
Yeah, we don't believe people ought to be walking.
So friendly.
All of you guys.
By the way, that's where Mr. Gadget's lives is Kansas City.
This has not escaped me.
It's funny, actually.
We've even bumped into each other on stage.
Anyways, I've had some of my bag and other stories, very nice series.
And someday I will, in actual fact, pop them into a series all by itself.
Speaking of series, we have a new series on HVR Privacy and Security.
Sad abilities that we need it.
What we do have is, and the first one in there was a request from our list
for GNPGP Compliant Encryption by Klatu, who showed us how to set up GNU-PG,
a GNU privacy guard on most and, excuse me, other male clients.
Yeah, I thought he did a wonderful job.
And I asked for that to be part of the Security and Privacy series,
which I've uploaded a couple of things.
I'm going to expand on what he did to talk about some of the clients you could use
in various operating systems to handle some of this stuff.
Good, I get the feeling that this is something that I at least would need to hear a few times.
This episode I've listened to twice, and I need to hear a few more times,
because I'm a bit concerned when I start encrypting my email.
I want, yeah, it's something I want to make sure I do properly.
Well, we'll guide you through it.
Cool.
The following day, we had Matthew McGraw, who was geeked out with pipes,
and this was not the Linux, how to redirect one command into another, it was about,
the low-tech pastime of smoking a pipe.
I used to do that myself, and a friend of mine who's also a pipe smoker
had a sign in his house that, you know, if you have, if you smoke a pipe,
you're constantly fiddling.
So the sign said a pipe gives a wise man time to think and a fool something to do with his hands.
Yes, very much, very much.
The following day, which was very interesting, SFS Linux camp,
these guys are putting together a training series for how to get your
Linux plus study guide and stuff.
And they have some links in the show notes to Word or to Libra Office documents,
showing typical questions and scenarios and stuff for the labs.
Very, very interesting.
I've sent them some feedback on, you know, other things that they should include.
So really, really interesting what they're trying to do.
And if anyone has a chance to support them, please do so.
I'm about looking for any certifications, but I'm glad they're doing it.
It sounds like an interesting project.
Yeah, looking forward to hearing more about this.
The following day, we had Dave Morris with fixing a bad RSS feed.
Why?
Why?
It's a problem.
And I fixed the problem.
Why did I have the problem in the first place?
It might be the question.
Yeah, but I know you mentioned it in the podcast.
It's not explicitly not in the spec that you can have multiple enclosures.
You could, in theory, you have multiple enclosures.
The fact that the pearl library or the fact that, yeah, as the pearl library
you're using doesn't support it, is more an issue with the...
Well, actually, this whole thing is more an issue with it,
but how badly written the RSS spec is.
Exactly.
Yes.
Which was my conclusion, if you...
Indeed, remember.
Which annoyed me because I didn't have nothing to complain about.
I was hearing your potential comments in my mind, as I said that.
Yeah.
Did you get my feedback?
I hadn't looked, to be honest, if you have not checked.
There is feedback on the website where you could actually modify the XSLT quite simply,
so that when you're doing the enclosure, you could...
Instead of selecting slash RSS, slash channel, slash item slash enclosure,
you could do slash RSS slash channel, slash item slash enclosure,
open-square bracket, as type equals code audio slash org code,
and then close-square bracket, open-square bracket, one closed-square bracket,
and that way it will all get in the first...
But that will only help with one.
It won't help with the fact that they put multiple other enclosures...
For your second scenario, it won't help.
Yeah.
I mean, it was...
Go on, sorry.
Not, not, you've got...
It was just really an example of the crapiness of RSS,
and how people obviously fall into the whole left by the fact that it's a crappy standard,
and the fact that this thing causes problems down the line.
I'm sure some podcasts have fixed it.
I know the one I run on my Android tablet handles them quite happily.
What's...
I don't see it long.
G-Pod, it doesn't.
G-Pod gets a little bit upset with it.
And so, you know, there's a variability with the way that different systems handle it.
And so it's just generally a mess.
Yeah, it's partly that.
And partly just to give you a show because they're a bit short shows.
No, no, I didn't say that.
No, but also, I must say, I do...
I did like the show because...
Because of the way you went through your RSS,
and I'm now going to steal this code and use it for proprietary software that I'm not going to release.
Be...
Well, absolutely.
That's in the spirit of things, of course, Ken.
Yeah.
Exactly.
A lot.
That's actually in this word.
That is allowed under the GPL or whatever.
As long as you don't redistribute it.
It's out there.
So just do it.
You're lucky.
It's not as I'm concerned.
No, it's nice to get a...
Is something...
Somebody put a sentence for me together, thank you.
It's nice to get the breakdowns and your codes...
You're showing all sorts of things very well done.
Okay.
Oh.
Some Pac-Man tips, by way, of replacing network manager with Wicked.
This was 50-150.
And how he replaced Pac-Man network manager with Wicked.
Which is something I've also done.
Not on Arc, but on other distributes.
I tried that on my laptop, which I have done many, many times.
But all of a sudden, it's a bomb and out on me.
You're going to figure out what's going on.
Why can't this Linux stuff just work?
And, actually, it was after this one that he recorded.
Vintage tech earn payphone coinbox.
And Ahuka, tell me.
Does the... what word did he use?
Personal bank or something?
A piggy bank, probably.
No, a piggy bank, I would have known.
But in the show, he referred to it as a personal bank or...
Not a piggy bank, because that's what I would have called it, a piggy bank.
What he...
I'd written down on Mechanical Bank.
That was the term he used.
Mechanical Bank, yes.
Yeah.
I had no clue what he was on about.
Because I had seen the pictures, because it posted the show.
And then it struck me, oh.
And piggy bank, actually, it was the word I was looking for.
Thanks.
Yeah, I assumed that it was something...
I've seen ones where, like, you put a coin and a hand comes up and grabs it,
and pulls it down into the box.
Never seen these.
We didn't have them.
Of course, we didn't have money in my day.
I've seen these things.
They're not very common, but seen them in antiques programs and that sort of thing.
And in real life, in museums and stuff.
And amazingly cool.
No, it's good stuff.
Of course, it became obvious what he was on about at the end.
But did anyone notice the glaring omission from his discussion of the payform,
which was also incredibly interesting that the coin comes down to different speeds
and rings the bell with a different tone, which is why the operator had to listen to it,
which is the full film I'm talking about.
The glaring omission from the show.
I guess I'm an idiot.
I missed it.
The three different sounds of whatever you call them, nickel quarter and dine coming down,
hitting their belt.
Well, I thought he did explain it.
It took a different amount of time.
Yes.
Well, I wanted them to put a coin in and here it goes.
Did you do dine?
Did you do dine?
Did you do dine?
So if somebody can do that, record that for me and put it on because I've never heard this.
Oh, you just wanted to hear it.
Yeah.
I mean, there's probably an assumption that everybody in the States knows what this sound is like,
but having never made a payphone call from the States, I have no idea what it sounds like.
What you can't do it here really anymore, unless you're very lucky.
Oh, he's got the bloody box right there.
Look, all he needs to do is put in a coin and record it and take it on to the end of the episode.
Job done.
Hey, if he hears this, maybe he'll do something about it.
Now, I was just commenting on the fact that payphones are pretty much disappeared from the United States because everyone's got cell phones now.
I know Zachary Desantos is off there now recording a two hour episode of coins.
We put it to a payphone box.
There's a trend started there.
Yeah.
Marshall, what do you ask for?
Yeah.
And if it's of interest to hackers, it'll get on here.
Anyway, Libra office writer and numbering list style deconstructors.
We had the bullet style previous and now the list style.
Want to say anything about this hookah?
No, I think it really just trying to take it a step at a time and go through it.
The one thing I will mention is that you had asked for a show some time ago about what my workflow is like when I'm creating these things.
And I may try and get that done this weekend.
Very good.
Yes, I have.
And that would be superb.
Probably the best brain respond.
Look at you.
The best handle for this one is Yandere geek.
And what I do with my Raspberry Pi, which of course will also be an excellent excellent series of people wanted to do that.
I have two come from two shows ready.
Well, in my head ready to do rock on this on this subject.
No, three.
Three.
Three.
No, four.
Bring out this.
Do you use a Raspberry Pi for the dinosaur egg thing?
Yes, I did.
That could be a part of the series.
We only need one more because you know it takes three shows to make a series.
Or more.
But this is this was excellent.
One of my one of my shows will hopefully help him out a little bit.
He's kind of stolen his use case too is my home server, which is kind of what I'm doing.
So that's that.
I love these episodes.
Keep them coming.
Keep them coming.
And the next day was Jezre, who many people will know from.
From Dan and Fadz and ex-outload show.
And I thought they were referring to that Dan or perhaps the Dan from.
And then it's link text show boss.
It actual fact to turn out to be a Dan in work.
And we've got a show out of that.
Well, Dan Waschko spells his name with two at double and Dan.
But a very good show on how to do get off a little bit.
Repeating.
And it was a very good show on how to do use get hooks.
When you get to commit.
Anyone who does that.
So pretty pretty cool stuff.
They're longer than continue coming.
And John called how to fall the sheet in response to our low amount of shows.
Well, you got to give it the right title.
That's how to fold a fitted sheet.
Thank you.
Makes all the difference.
Although I can do neither.
So there you go.
Now, I have a question for you gentlemen.
Which of you was were able to fold a fitted sheet prior to this episode?
And which of you were able to fold a fitted sheet after this episode?
I could do.
I had a technique which is not as sophisticated as John's which involved laying the thing flat
and turning the fitted bits inwards all round to make a clean edge all round
and then folding it.
But that's a pain.
Whereas his method, although it's hellish, difficult to explain is better.
Did you fall into it?
Of course.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I saw the pictures first, actually.
And then the explanations really hard to follow, I think.
Because it's a really hard thing to explain.
Because it's a multi-dimensional, three-dimensional thing.
So you need the pictures alongside it?
Yeah. And the pictures are there.
And it's kind of clear if you don't.
I also have seen the pictures before.
I listened to the episode.
So I kind of also disqualifies me, I guess.
But I want John, I want to stay linked to the YouTube videos all the source for you.
Yeah, we really need that.
Because I have to admit, I tried to mentally follow what he was doing.
And I'm just not that good.
Well, this could be an entire series.
Yeah.
Be careful what you ask for.
I, as you know, I really don't care as long as you also come in.
It could be on a two-hour episode of somebody walking in the rain.
And I would be happy with that.
So long as it's of interest to hackers, and it was.
Then we had the national...
national novel writing.
Thank you.
Which oddly enough, Jezra is a system aiming for.
So kind of cool there.
How it all comes full circle within the space of two days.
But a real cool tip there on focus writer.
Actually, how to, you know,
some of the tips get into the zone and put on a timer and you don't need to worry and stuff.
So kind of like that.
Like that episode a lot.
Question becomes what sort of tools really fit your workflow.
I mean, if I were doing it and I'm not,
I would use labor office writer.
But yeah, but then again, you would then for someone who isn't as familiar with it as I am,
it might be distracting.
Yes, but then you are one who knows not to press those buttons.
Oh, exactly.
Yeah.
I would set up a template with the styles I needed and then just start writing.
And which of us after we had cleaned our apartments 14 times,
you know, the day before your your final paper was you would spend many hours getting the formatting right before you have written, you know,
any any text at all for your paper.
Well, you would not get a good paper out of it if you took that approach.
Yes, hence maybe why I'm not a production engineer anymore.
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
And the final episode was blogging with October press,
which is actually rapidly becoming a series static HTML site generators.
You have competition in the market, Dave.
Was that the November one?
Yes, it was.
Sorry.
That shouldn't be on.
How did my.
Yeah, because I pressed.
Okay.
But that was the last show.
That is going to be reviewed next month.
Yes.
Okay.
Okay.
That was show review.
We have been running for seven years,
six months, 22 days as HPR, five years, three months, 29 days.
Total number of shows, 1715, 300,
T-W-A-T, 1415 HPR,
206 HPR hosts.
The next pre-slot is in 16 days.
There are seven hosts in the queue.
And there are 15 host shows in the queue.
The total number of downloads in October was 101,572.
All this information is available for you on the HG Public Radio website.
There was a massive jump there in downloads.
I think large of you to one or two people,
schlepping in the entire archive.
Good luck with that.
Two months time of continuous listening.
Actually, I need to do that as well.
Put a running, running,
I also need to put something together to do a running count
of the amount of hours of content that we have over there.
I want to jump in here,
because I don't know if anyone else would know about this,
unless they listen to Linux for the rest of us,
or we could see the source of media.
I went and said,
that the cat was hoisted by his own petard recently,
because he called it to talk about all the things
that Linux for the rest of us ought to be doing.
It's a part of my business.
And George Dorg-Geek,
said that cat sounds like you need to do a show.
Yeah, I was called out of, yes.
I have in fact,
more than one shows at the end.
I give him a series of topics.
I can't actually did it both as an email and as a voicemail and I immediately said can I want your list because that is going to give me all kinds of
ideas of things that I can do shows on for Hacker Public Radio and I'm also going to be doing some similar things for Linux for the rest of us.
So it's going to give us a good promotional opportunity where I can say, hey, you know, get all these shows at Hacker Public Radio.
Yeah, absolutely.
The thing about security though is I find it interesting and I've been listening to a lot of, I've been following it for quite a while, boss.
I would not consider myself to be an expert in any way shape, may perform, although I do tend to follow best practices.
I've just finished a very interesting book by Bruce Neier called Beyond Fear that I think laid out a very good way of thinking about security.
That's in one of the show notes where you're upcoming episodes.
Yes, it is.
Folks, you don't want to have to tune in or figure out how to get access to those already posted shows and download them all.
Anyways, news, news, news, news, news.
I do just do loads of about three or four episodes in my head for security thread.
And I have a few of them.
I was very surprised.
I also have a few more to put it being put in the mouth until I get time.
Okay, forward to hearing them.
The main topic, one of the main topics I want to pull out from the mailing list this month has been announcement of the New Year show, New Year 24 hour show.
Hello, all we're roughly about 10 weeks away from the next New Year show, a lot less now.
And this is called for all parties you're interested in helping out within your show.
So we need to make arrangements for a mobile server and a few streaming servers.
If you have any of these resources, please send your name, email address and available resources.
The date and time that's convenient to meet online for organizational purposes.
Thank you from Kevin Wischer on rckeven.wisher.gmail.com.
And those are those are coming in thick and fast.
We do have the HPR VPS, which is available for that very purpose generation for that purpose.
So that can be the main server and Kevin, if you can send me a list of people who need accounts on that and their public SSH keys, I will arrange for them to have accounts on there with access to that.
So join the mailing list for discussions on that.
There was a request for Aruka who's on the show to do a to use doing car payments as an example for your upcoming talk show.
Yeah, and I'll do that because Lord knows what ought to respond to requests whenever possible.
We love you and who can we love you?
It'll be some programs into it before I get there because I've got to build the groundwork.
Yeah, particularly with Calc, I'm going to start on the assumption that you don't know anything about spreadsheets at all.
Actually, that's probably not about assumption.
Well, I've discovered that the things that I think everyone knows, it turns out they don't.
I don't know which things people don't know.
I've done sessions where drag-filling amazes somebody.
You continue on doing what you're doing.
If it's anything like your Rysher series, it will be a full thorough breakdown of what Libra Office should do.
And I think we should burn these on the DVD and send them over to the Libra Office people to give away.
Anyways, then we had the next big, big discussion was Q management and depositing of the current backup shows.
And this arose from an email from, this is a massive discussion actually.
And it arose from an email from 5150 who had seen the state of the Q and I think was a bit spooked by it, to be honest.
But I've been there before, so I wasn't spooked about it as he was.
And if you look at the graph at one point during the week, well actually what happens on the graph?
What happens on the upload cycle with the HPR typically is this.
We get approximately one show a week, normally, about one show a week, maybe two if you're lucky, but it kind of averages out to one show a week.
And obviously if you do the max, that's only 52 shows that we get during the regular cycle.
Now what that means of course is that we're sure to show us that particular times.
So then we send out the request for shows and then what we get is a big bump in the amount of shows that come in.
So around about the 27th of the 7th, we had a request for shows and we went from four shows up to 15 shows and then it's steadily climbed over the period of the month up to a height of 34 shows.
And then it gradually goes down and it goes, you see it bipping up, bipping up, bipping up as we get a few shows in.
So what that means is at a certain point in time, we're very low on shows and at a certain point in time, meaning people rushed getting shows and everybody, and thank you everybody for doing this.
Don't come around like, I do want your shows really, I do want your shows, especially if you happen to record a show this year, please send us any shows.
But my point is kind of that if we can as, because now we're managing the Q ourselves, we are responsible for the Q, you can, when you upload your show, you can put in the date, our episode number that you want the show released on.
And if you do that, then you can space your shows out for particular period of time.
So if you're uploading four shows and you want them spaced out, you can do that by picking days in the future.
So what I was saying was we got a, we got some shows in and I refer to it as a burst, which I think might have offended 51 50 and if I did, I really apologize for 51, you put out the call on a lot of, a lot of podcasts there to get in the shows and I really do appreciate that.
So just to be clear about that, what I'm asking for people to do, especially regular contributors is use that feature so that you can space out your shows.
Now you don't have to, you can put in next available slot and we'll take the next available slot or you can put it into the backup queue and it'll probably never get out because we have 13 shows in there, a lot of them wait now, probably over a year.
So the kind of rule of thumb is if there's a free slot in next week, whenever next week is when you're uploading, then use next available slot or if you want to hear one of the backup shows don't and we'll pick that.
If it's two weeks out and it's still full, yeah, you can also put it in there. If it's three weeks out, try and leave a few spaces if it's four weeks out, leave a few spaces so that they days, but if a new host comes along and they pick next available slot, but they have a chance of getting in some slots and don't be worried about empty slots.
We have 13 backup shows which is nine on three weeks of backup shows so we do tend to get backup shows every now and then I have plenty of shows that I could record as backup shows if needed.
So don't be afraid about, don't be that afraid about gaps, try and try as a community, we need to take responsibility while you guys need to take responsibility at you guys being me as well and need to take responsibility for the queue as well because you're the people who are doing the schedule.
None of the admins have any control over it anymore, which is a good thing.
Well, I'm trying to work actually pretty far in advance. I think the stuff I've sent you, I've got something scheduled into January already and I'm now actually doing two series, which proves I'm insane.
So there's the Libra office, that's the one that's going into January and then the new security and privacy. And on that one, I'm trying to do like one a month and I've already sent two in, but I tried to space them out.
So my objective at least is to have stuff in the queue that says, all right, I've got stuff programmed through 2014.
And that's cool because then just plenty of free space is there. So also if you put them on the front, if you're picking a week and you put it on the Friday or the Thursday that leaves the Monday Tuesday Wednesday kind of free for people.
So it's just a request. Nobody has to do it. We're very happy with the, you know, the shark fin is fine by me, but, you know, what would be nice if we had that number hovering between the 15 and the 10, which I think is a nice.
The red line is when the next free slot is. So if there is a free slot in 10 days, but the day after that and the day after that and the day after that and the day after that are filled in with that red line still shows that there's 10 days to the next slot. So that's still leaves.
Am I making sense here guys because I have no idea.
Yeah.
Yep.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And yes, there was also a request. I think it was kind of fun and chic, but we should do worst off as a backup show. So if that you would, I don't know if the intention was that you would critique other people shows or that you would do you the worst possible show that you could do yourself.
But just to make it clear here on the HPR, it is not allowed to slag other people shows off that you can take them aside and comment on their shows or if their opinions are contrary to what you believe and you can of course comment on that.
Do your own show about it and that's absolutely fine, but slagging off other people shows is not in the philosophy of it.
How great.
Okay, and a good example of that is is the 69 episode, which I think offended a lot of people and there was a counter episode done on that about the call, the title, the international performance and both of those episodes are linked in the comments.
So the both sides of the argument.
Okay, then my friends, we had an update to the readme file where I'm being very strict now and what I want because I am getting grumpy.
Yeah, I got caught by that last weekend when I uploaded some stuff, but yeah, we will take care of that.
Ah, it's not that bad. There's some things that really ruin mess it up for me is spaces and quotes and question marks and stuff are reserved for them.
So yes, you can use them, but it's opinions.
And also, let me see what else did we change.
Oh, yeah, tab delimiting.
Oh, no, I didn't fix this.
Dave, did I not fix this?
What was that?
I fixed the, sorry, I thought I fixed the underscore.
Well, I didn't update the readme to the that's now.
I didn't update the readme on the website, which is a different file to the readme on the FTP server. So I'll do that now.
But basically, I'm asking for filings to be restricted to a A to Z zero one.
A space should be replaced with an underscore and between the host name, host ID, host name, you should use a minus sign, no braces or punctuation or stuff like that.
And the show notes, please fill out the fields in the show notes.
So your host and email address, your desired slot into an outro, I just believe it or not, that won't mind me into an outro.
Add it just makes like so much easier for me, because I don't need to download the show or slow connection, listen to it and do all that stuff.
So yeah, kind of use that.
And I'm assuming that it makes your life marginally easier if we actually put the intro and outro on.
Yeah, put the intro and outro on if you do.
It doesn't make any difference to me because it just adds one additional step.
It adds additional three letters, but the audio will never sound as good because I'm hacking stuff together with a script.
So the levels and everything will be off.
So if you add the intro and outro, then you can you can check the levels yourself for your show.
Okay, make sense.
Oh yeah, there was there was some comment in the previous community news about the level of the intro and outro being quite high.
Correct. Remember that.
Yeah.
And I wondered if we should maybe turn them, turn them down a wee bit.
I don't know if it was just a few people here at that one or whether some people were having trouble adjusting things so they weren't too loud or whatever.
I wonder whether we should take action to to make them to do that.
I've actually I've taken the originals and I've dropped the level a little bit and I have my own personal copies that I'm using with the lower level on them.
If you want them, you want to check them out to see if they're if they're any better.
They're very welcome to them.
As I said in the last community news on the mentioned this, somebody wants to do that, send them to the police.
Okay.
Consider it done.
There will be new intro and outdoors for people.
Maybe I should reencode yours again, who come because they will all have the higher intro and outro levels on your new shows gone into 2014.
I had noticed any problems there.
My suspicion is that it's only occasionally that I hear it too loud.
And I'm wondering if maybe those are cases where like maybe someone was adding the intro and outro and then boosting their volume.
No, I think they were commented on shows that were done by the script.
Okay.
I'm not hearing it on every show.
I'm hearing it, you know, a couple of three times a month.
When you identify it, can you tell me and then we'll see if it was linked to this.
Anyway, Dave send us the new intros and outro.
So folks, there's going to be a new intro and outro for you to use available by the time you hear this.
So long as you're not downloading it too early.
In my case, just wait a while.
Okay.
So what else, what else did we have?
George has per help.
Yes, he did.
He wants to know what to record and the answer, of course, to that is everything.
The process of adding us to the mail archive has begun.
I think nobody objected to this.
So all the messages to the HPR mailing list and the dev mailing list will be added to that service.
More information coming shortly right now.
And you can go into the mail list.
We'll go over there.
So again, it's an ongoing process that won't happen overnight.
Good.
So that's all I have.
Anyone else got anything?
Nope.
Done here.
Yeah.
And if you're not on the mailing list, please join us.
It's usually quite quiet.
Sometimes there's nothing in other months.
There's loads of stuff.
And hopefully in a while we'll have a place where you can go back and see all the messages.
Which I find quite interesting.
That's just reading some of the messages that I posted way back when.
Okay, folks.
That's it for me.
Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of HPRK Public Radio.
You have been listening to HPRK Public Radio or HPRK Radio does all right.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
HPRK Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer cloud.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are proudly sponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunar pages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share a line, 3.0 license.
