Episode: 1126
Title: HPR1126: The DrupalCamp of Adam Evertsson
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1126/hpr1126.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 19:25:46

---

Yes, you're on that part of the internet again.
This is Hacker Public Radio.
And you're listening to the episode, The Drupal Camp of Autumn Ivichon.
Greetings.
This is CT, or as you might know me, Kenneth from the old United Radio.
Today it's time for another interview with one of the organizers of Drupal Camp Gothenburg
or Jatoborri as it's locally known.
But to frame it all, I would like to tell you a bit about what it actually is.
On the webpage for Drupal Camp, it says that it is a one-day conference about the highly
popular open source content management system, Drupal, and trends in web development in general,
the conference will focus on current web development themes such as mobile and tablet development,
responsive database queries, node.js, and open source project management.
So that was to quote from the webpage, I don't know if everyone is on the clear about
what Drupal actually is.
So to quote from Wikipedia, it says that Drupal is a free and open source content management
system, as mentioned before, but not only that, but also a content management framework written
in PHP distributed under the GPL.
It also mentions that it's used as a backend for at least 1.5% of all websites worldwide,
quite significant.
Starting from personal blogs to corporate, political, and government sites, including
WhiteHouse.gov, and so on and so forth.
So CMS is a piece of software that you install on the server, which helps you to generate
your website.
I'm sure there isn't over the head of anyone listening, but just to make it all clear,
a few other popular CMSs are Jumla and perhaps most well-known is WordPress.
Drupal is known to be very configurable.
There are a lot of modules, and you can make it do almost anything you like.
You don't have to be a programmer.
You can use it as a pure and clean CMS, but you can also use it as the Wikipedia article
mentioned, a CMF, a content management framework, that is you can use it as a PHP framework
to create your own webpage if you know how to code in PHP.
So far so good.
So this is a bunch of web designers who got together and made the first Drupal Camp Gothenburg
possible.
There has been a few Drupal camps in Stockholm before, but this is the first one ever in Gothenburg.
And if you have a look on the internet, you will find that there are many Drupal camps
all over the world.
And I got the great opportunity to have a little chat with one of the most important
persons who made this all happen, one of the organizers, and let's listen to it.
Now I'm sitting here with perhaps the most important person here at Drupal Camp Gothenburg
who are you sir, and what are you role here?
My name is Adam Everton, I'm the guess you can call it project manager for this Drupal
Camp here in Gothenburg today.
Right, splendid.
So what have your title and tale, what have you been doing to get this to actually come
to life?
Oh, well actually when we started this economic forening, this economic community, whatever
you should translate it to, I was assigned project leader.
And I guess that's because I was the one who raised the question if we should arrange
a Drupal Camp here in Gothenburg six months ago.
And when we, I think two months later, arranged this economic forening, I was appointed as
probably manager, and that's what I am, that's what it is.
It's always dangerous to point out a problem or to have a good idea, and it often turns
into a hard work.
So what have you been doing during the camp?
Not basically getting people to the right rooms and getting them to stop talking when
time is running out, which has been in some cases very difficult.
It's very nice and fun to have people who are so dedicated to their modules or the
cause with Drupal or Drupal itself, because they won't stop talking, they want to promote
their work and that we all should join the ranks to make Drupal better.
And basically that today, that's my role, is making it flow, so to speak.
Right, and what do you do regarding Drupal?
What is your relation to the project?
I'm, ooh, how can I translate that in English?
I'm working at Kodamera with basically support, and when the project is ready to be launched,
that's where I come in, me and my colleague Hans, we do the launch of the site.
We also take on smaller problems, support problems, smaller, I don't know, search engine optimizations.
The Swedish world is revolting, I really don't know how to translate that into English,
but we take care of the customers, we take care of the site after it's been launched.
So, and since we're working with Drupal, I would say, to 97%, and the 3% is older websites
in Jumla and some in WordPress as well, so that's my relationship and therefore the connection
to the community, which I, which I think is really great.
Right, so what kind of company is it, how, how many are you, is it a big company, or?
I think we, it's, it's almost 10 years young, right?
Kodamera was founded in 2003, so it's 10 years next year, where we are 18 people at the moment,
I think, always looking for more people, or Drupal developers and famous and everything,
growing steadily, I would think, and I'm very pleased to work there, very generous, and I
have had a really nice time during the late last six, now 18 months, sorry, which I worked
in.
What's your thoughts now, when Drupal Camp has come and gone, was it successful, was there
something you didn't quite expect, do you have any initial thoughts, or would you have
to sort of simmer on this while before you can have some perspective on it?
I've actually already have a document with at least 20 items that should be better next
year.
Of course, this is the first attempt, and I'm very glad that it went as well as it did.
Folketsu's here at Jan Toriot has been marvelous to host the event, and all the sessions
has worked really, really well, and I'm really pleased, but as I said, it's the first version,
the next version, version 2 will be better and more bombastic in all kinds of way, so,
but I'm very pleased, I'm very pleased, I'm tired else, I don't know, yeah, I want
to mention it, I'm very tired growing up, alright, but you are quite certain that there
will be a Drupal camp at Yutubori next year.
We certainly hope so, we have shown that we can do it, and if we can get three or four
more people joining the ranks to plan and host it, this will be much more easier next year,
and we have great plans, I want to mention them, because, well, some things are meant to
be surprises, but this has gone so well just for the first time, and hopefully we get
more people, it would just be better and bigger and everything.
Do you have any dream guests that you would like to appear here, some superstar in the
free and open source world or in the Drupal community?
Well, now we had Morton, and he's the best, so, alright, now of course, it would be fun
if Drees could show up, Drees boot up, but I don't know how many camps he can go to,
he's pretty busy, but I would say that if we can get more people, we sold 130 tickets
around that, and I think about 90, 95 or 100 showed up today, if we can double that next
year to sell 250 tickets or at least gather 200 people here and spread the Drupal word
that we reward big enough for me, and of course, if Drees would like to come, he's welcome.
But haven't you exhausted the Drupal interested people in the Gothenburg area by now, and
drawn some people from other areas as well, where do you branch out, who will you attract
to this conference?
Well, that's a nice thing that we were so few people organizing this, we just exhausted
five people, so there's a lot ofologists to wheel in and exhaust.
Now, seriously, next year we will try to attract the Norwegian community in some way, the
southern Sweden community around Malmö, Copenhagen, of course also Stockholm, there was going
to be a Drupal discovery day in May, in the end of May, so that clashed with this event,
and turned out that that event was moved until September, but when that was decided, it
was too late to attract sponsors and the agencies in Stockholm.
So next year we're going to branch out to those places and also branch out to agencies
dealing with, for example, Jomla and WordPress, which could easily, since they are doing
the same thing, but with lesser frameworks, they might be interested in Drupal, see what
it is, and attract them in that way.
Hostile takeover, kind of, yeah, that sounds great, okay, so if you want to say something
to the people listening to this, and you want them to go somewhere, do something, is
their project what you would like to pimp or something like that?
Of course, I would like much more people joining the community in Gothamö, the Drupal community,
so we can be more people during the Drupal get-togethers, the Drupal meet-ups here in
the Utaboy, right now we're about 25, 30 people each time, it would be much, much more
fun if we became more of those, I have some thoughts about other things that we're
going to discuss at the next Drupal got together at Nindev this Thursday, and so there are
many ideas, many thoughts, but one at a time, baby steps, splendid, and if people want
to know more about you, where do they go?
Well, more about me, well I do have a Twitter account, odd, I may have it on, but mostly
I would say go to Drupalcamp.se, right now our address for this camp is spring 2012.Drupal
camp.se, hopefully we can get a separate website just for the Gothamberg community, like
Gothamberg.Drupalcamp.se, that's one of the ideas, but otherwise Drupalcamp.se, I would
say, wonderful, thank you very much, thank you!
And as you probably heard, the best place for us to do the interview was right outside
the restrooms, anyway the only time when Autumn was available for an interview was of course
after the event when the social had taken over, and that's the reason for the music in
the background.
You heard Adam mention the keynote speaker, Morton DK, and I have managed to get an interview
with him as well.
So what did you think?
Did you find this interesting?
This is a look into how to organize events like this, and it's a look into the web design
part of the community.
I don't know how many of you out there are web designers, but I know some of you are,
and I know, well, almost all of you know a bit of HTML and CSS, I guess.
I have a few more interviews from Drupalcamp, which I would like to share with you another
time.
Please tell me in the comments, do you enjoy that kind of interview from a more niche conference?
You will find all the relevant links in the show notes where you can follow me on Twitter
and Identica, Google+, and so on, so forth.
Also where you find Drupalcamp, Yutubori, or Damiyevachon, and more general information
about Drupal.
So until next time, I have been CT4HackerPublicRadio.
You have been listening to HackerPublicRadio or HackerPublicRadio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
HackerPublicRadio was founded by the Digital.Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting
needs.
On list otherwise stasis, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution,
Share and Like, free those own license.
