Episode: 1544
Title: HPR1544: An Open Source News Break from Opensource.com
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1544/hpr1544.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 04:50:17

---

MUSIC
Greetings and salutations, hacker public radio, semiotic robotic here with another open
source news break from opensource.com.
Here are a few stories from the opensource.com community.
First we've published a passionately written column by David Hurley, community manager
for the Jumla project who attempts to locate what he calls the true value of open source.
Open source is valuable, Hurley writes, very few people would argue that point.
There is most definitely a sense of intrinsic worth, but where does this value exist?
Is it in the code produced or in something else?
Hurley suggests that the value of open source extends beyond software, beyond code, to
the communities that form around it.
Further in is where the true value lies, Hurley writes, the people who give their time
to create this amazing open source community.
Next, in our life channel, we're featuring an interview with Molly Van Howling, co-founder
of the new Authors Alliance, a non-profit organization that promotes authorship for
the public good.
Van Howling writes that she and the other founders quote, came to realize that there is no
existing organization that speaks for us as authors and helps us navigate the increasingly
complicated environment in which our writings are disseminated to the public.
So, she says, we decided to create that organization.
The Authors Alliance provides educational and legal tools for authors who want to disseminate
their work in an increasingly digitized, networked world.
Its advisory board consists of academics like Dana Boyd, Lawrence Lessig, and Joy Eto,
as well as popular writers like Cory Doctorow and Jonathan Leatham.
You can read more about the Authors Alliance at AuthorsAliance.org.
And finally, I should draw your attention to a challenge from OpenSource.com's resident
OpenStack Efficient Auto, Jason Baker, who recently posted a poll asking users to name
from memory all 10 OpenStack releases.
It's harder than you think, Baker writes, even for some of the core members of the development
teams.
What about you, HPR listeners?
Can you name all 10 releases of OpenStack?
Take our quiz and test your knowledge.
The link is in the show notes.
That's all for this OpenSource news break.
You'll find links to the stories I've discussed in the show notes for this episode.
And of course, you'll find even more open source stories at OpenSource.com.
If you have suggestions for news we might cover, drop us a line at opensource.com slash
contact or tweet us at OpenSource way.
Until next time, this is semiotic robotic, wishing you peace, love, and OpenSource.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio or Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on day through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer
club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are proudly sponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting
needs.
On list, otherwise stasis, today's show is released on the creative commons, attribution,
share a like, 3.0 license.
