Episode: 1570
Title: HPR1570: The JFS File System
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1570/hpr1570.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 05:10:51

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's Aniston Fair at AnanasThost.com.
Alrighty guys, continuing my file system series for those of you who don't know me, I'm
JWF and I do things with the hacker public radio or sometimes I do a really long podcast
on my own JWP Linux podcast that I do at Lipson, I haven't done one in a while, I'm probably
going to get back to that Lipson account because I'm paying for it and you just start
doing something.
Today I wanted to talk to you about JFS.
Now JFS is different than the journaled, then what we were talking about before that
used the RISER system, so before on a podcast I talked about journaling file system methods,
right, or journaling file systems.
So IBM came up with something called the journaled file system or JFS.
Now you can select JFS as your file system in a number of things, okay?
It's possibly one of the oldest file systems because it was developed by IBM in 1990 for
its AIX flavor of Unix.
However, it wasn't until the second version that it was ported to the Linux environment.
Note the official IBM name of the second version of JFS is JFS2, but most Linux systems
refer to it as JFS.
So when you go in and you set up everything, it's JFS.
JFS uses the ordered journaling method, storing only the endowed table data in the journal,
but not removing it until the actual file data is written to the storage device.
This method is a compromise between the speed of RISER FS and the integrity of the data
mode journaling method.
The JFS file system uses an extent-based file allocation allocating a group of blocks
for each file written to the storage device.
This method provides less fragmentation on the storage device outside of IBM Linux offerings
JFS isn't properly used in the Linux family.
I've used it a few times, but again, I'm mostly used to fault things.
I think that with XT4, you can probably set the node to do the same thing with the command
line.
Okay, all righty, well, so we've talked about the journal file system or JFS.
It is an option in a lot of BSDs and Linuxes.
I hope you all have a great day and you all have a challenge with it, I'm not sure if
it was really interesting with JFS, but it was one of the options when I installed.
Already, hey, thank you very much.
If you have any questions, you can reach me at JWP5 at hotmail.com.
Thank you.
Bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is, Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dot org pound and
the infonomicom computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution,
share a like, 3.0 license.
