Episode: 1338
Title: HPR1338: Pumped Pi's
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1338/hpr1338.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 23:46:39

---

Music
What, what, uh, which one was it?
Well, I think it was the long time ago with Jesra, uh, we tried to sync up our audacity and we both went three, two, one and hit record.
Yeah.
This is before we knew that there was that time shift tool in there.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, so, all right.
The time shift tool was definitely, uh, pretty handy.
Yeah, and then plus I've found that the, uh, two recordings will drift.
Like, if you record for 40 minutes, you can end up with like a half a second lag and you've got to start putting space in one track or
taking it out of the other.
Yeah, that can, uh, not build up a lot of editing time one.
I like editing.
I think that's fun.
Did you, uh, I saw you did too already.
Yeah, I had, uh, like a few minutes there and, uh, did the first...
Oh, why don't we just, hang on.
Why don't we just start, ready?
Hello, this is NY Bill.
This is G-Rump.
And we finally figured out how to get on mumble at the same time.
We've been trying this for like three weeks now.
Yeah, it's, uh, it's up to sync up with everybody.
It's a dumpster.
Yeah, yeah.
Our hours are a little different.
If you guys are going to, if anybody here's sirens in this, this is about the,
probably the 12th fire engine that's gone by.
There's a house burning behind us.
Oh, well.
Probably about a quarter mile away.
I can just see a column of smoke.
Um, yeah, so you put up a, uh,
a picture of your Raspberry Pi and you said it was a pump server.
And I said, ooh, like tell me more.
And then we got talking and we said, uh,
maybe we can do an HPR on it.
And then I said, well, you're,
first you're going to have to look in the mumble and then like two hours later,
you go, all right, I looked in the mumble.
Works pretty good.
I set up a server.
I go, I go, all right.
Well, all right, go get Audacity next and make sure you work that.
And then about three days later, you go, uh, audacity's working fine.
And I just put up my first HPR.
So you got right into it, huh?
Yeah.
I like to get into stuff like that.
Hit first.
Nice.
Yeah.
And once you get the bug,
oh boy, John Colp's put up like what?
A lot.
Yeah.
Yeah, eight or ten of them in the last month.
It got, got us through the summer law.
Yeah, definitely.
And his are pretty good too.
I think I've got still a few of his and my cue where I'm catching up.
Hmm.
He just seems to be able to turn on the mic and go, well,
he speaks for a living.
He's a professor.
Yeah.
I'm sure that helps a lot.
Yeah.
So, uh,
I messed around with pump.
Maybe we should say what pump is.
Yeah, it doesn't know.
Yeah, they may not know.
Uh, I guess it's, uh,
what federated social networking platform.
Yeah, the Evan who did
Identica and status net.
This is his new thing.
Yeah, so yeah, the giant Identica server,
uh, migrated over to pump.
Well, was that like a month ago, I guess?
Yeah, that was, that seemed like it was a little bit of a rough switch,
but it finally got over.
And then I didn't know, I thought it was all broken,
but I figured out how to log in.
I finally logged in, but I don't see the same amount of conversation over there
or people have moved on or.
Yes.
Where they're all on pump now.
Uh, yeah.
It's kind of like a different group almost.
Hmm.
Well, some of the same people within a mix of other people
that I guess were on status net that I didn't talk to.
Now, um, it's a different group of people interact with that thing.
Yeah, every time one of these switches comes along
or the G plus thing or diaspora just seems to scatter us.
Yeah.
And then slowly we regroup and end up somewhere.
Yeah, the, uh, the old fragmented web.
Yeah.
This is social, isn't it?
Yeah, it's a social web.
So I, uh, I messed around with setting up pump,
but I, I got up to the point where I need a certificate.
And I just, I just stopped there.
I never got a certain.
I went into it thinking my, uh, domain provider is Gandhi.
And I recall seeing free certificate.
So when pump came around and I need a certificate,
I went back to Gandhi and tried to click on that button to get a free certificate.
And it was for the first year only.
Uh, and then they wanted like 125 bucks a year.
Thanks.
Yeah, I think, uh, I did mine through start SSL, which, uh,
Jay Pope was, uh, recommended that and, and then Evan,
I think other people said that that's good because they have a free one year.
And then I think you can renew it every year and it continues to be free.
I don't think it's, uh, was that the one where I read the fine print that they can, uh,
send your information on to third parties?
Uh, I imagine you do not read the fine print.
I didn't really read the fine print, but, uh, that does not surprise me.
Hey, Ann, aren't you with 10 foil hat in the encrypted email club?
Yeah.
And you're not reading fine print.
I probably should, but, uh, also, I think a name cheap.com also has some $10 ones that are,
uh, like geotrust and a little more trusted.
And then I know some people can roll their own.
Yeah.
I get to some of those web pages where you had the, uh, add the exception and stuff.
Yeah.
So I think there's a, uh, caveat there where Evan has recommended people not do that with,
uh, I think at this point it's causing some problems in some places.
Oh, maybe as the, uh, as the messages go out there, they're hitting like untrusted or semi-trusted sites,
slowing everything down.
Yeah.
I think, um, with the server, the software, uh, recognizing a valid cert is kind of difficult, maybe.
So, uh, it reject some of the self-signed certificates.
Nice.
Well, that's my, uh, you know, understanding of not really understanding how that works.
Oh, all right.
I thought I just lost audacity.
No, I'm still here.
So, uh, you have, you got pump running on a little pie, huh?
Yep.
I've got it on my pie now.
I had it on my VPS to start with and it crashed and died kind of like it may have done this morning.
Oh, again.
And, uh, so then I had the next reply that I was letting my kids use, as a computer,
and they would log in and kind of do the tux paint and that kind of thing.
And then I, uh, decided I kind of wanted my pie back.
So, I gave them an old computer that I had and I took the pie, and, uh,
figured it'd make a good, good pump.
I think, uh, Sazius had set one up on his and, um, John Colt tried, I believe.
I don't know if you ever got his working.
These are, they're fast enough though to handle all that traffic.
Uh, yeah.
So far, I've only had a handful of problems.
It doesn't seem to be much of a processor speed, uh, hang up or anything.
My load stays pretty low and, um, the JavaScript is, is pretty efficient.
It seems.
We can cut these out.
All right, I'm back.
That was quick.
You can do a, uh, how to change diapers efficiently.
That might be a good one.
Oh, now I forget where we were.
Uh, yeah, I kind of do too.
Oh, you were asking about the speed of the thing, right?
Oh, yes.
Um, yeah, it doesn't seem to be impacted.
I kind of worry about the, uh, my upstream, you know, at home, it's not a fast or whatever,
but it doesn't seem to be a big impact.
I did have problems with status net when I run a node on a beagle bone.
And, uh, that seemed really slow.
Whereas pump, I don't feel as slow like logging in and things like that.
All right.
And how do you, uh, like one of the roadblocks I had setting up pump on my VPS was, uh,
it doesn't like to be, or it can't be pushed through a patchy.
Did you, did you read up on that stuff?
So I was, what did I set up engine X or something?
This was quite a while ago.
Oh, and then I needed, uh, then I needed another IP, another IP address, like a dedicated IP.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, Linode wanted me to submit a ticket in order in, you know, tell my reason for wanting two IPs.
I just got, I got 90% there and then I don't know, I stopped.
So how are you, uh, getting traffic to the pie?
Uh, yeah.
So that, that's a challenge too.
It's, uh, you know, it needs to bind to 480 and 443 or, I guess, or 443 for itself.
But I am currently not, uh, doing a proxy.
Uh, if you want to be able to use those ports for anything else, it needs to be proxy, like you're
talking about.
So I'm just using it just straight.
My router forwards all 80 and 443 directly to the pie.
And it's just, just running the pump.
Oh, okay.
That's, that's how I used to do my server when it was on a laptop here.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that's, that's how I got around that.
But now I'm a, I'm looking at changing things up.
I just got a big open black and, uh, I want to kind of set up a few more things, like a,
a mail server and, uh, probably move my website and things onto, uh, these two as, hmm,
nice.
Uh, the pie and the big open.
You had all this up on a VPS, but wasn't that the one that, like, the whole VPS,
crashed or something happened.
Yeah.
It was, uh, they had some, you know, black hat stuff going on.
People cracked in there and just wiped the whole node, or several of the nodes.
And I'm not sure how many VPS is on each node, but I imagine they're, uh, over, overtaxing
their servers since it's only like four bucks a month.
Yeah.
I think somebody, somebody came into the lug like, this was a couple weeks after you had mentioned
all this going down.
And he told the, almost the exact same story I go, you got to be on the same hosting as
my buddy.
Yeah.
So you don't.
And it really sucked, but, uh, you know, it was down for, I think, a month and then it
was back up and then this morning it crashed.
Did they ever, uh, release info as, like, details of what happened?
Uh, yeah, they did.
They said it was some exploit by, um, uh, the SolusVM panel.
Uh, they had a known weakness that had been patched a few weeks prior, but they didn't
apply the patch so they were exploded.
Oh, that quick.
Yeah.
About that same time, Linode had trouble too, and I never, I never got the full story on
that, but there was another one called, uh, Ram VPS or something like that.
And they were, they had the same kind of deal where they got in and wiped all the nodes.
Yes.
Yes.
Black hats.
Yeah, I mean, uh, why, what's the point?
What's wrong with a gray hat?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh, so, yeah, I had it on my VPS and like I said, it got wiped and it was dead.
Bringing everything back in house.
Yes.
Now back in house, it's, it's kind of, uh, you know, I get controlled my own data, which
is good and I don't have to worry about, you know, somebody peeking in on it and all
this kind of thing.
So you think?
Yes.
So I think, uh, I've got your IP address.
I've been.
So what, uh, what this dirt that you're on for, for the RPI?
I'm running Raspbian.
Oh, okay.
And, uh, just, uh, I bought it from Adafruit, I think they have their SD cards that come
with it.
You just slap it in there and expand the SD card, boot it up.
It's good to go.
Nice.
Uh, so the pump, I will support a couple of different database types, uh, MongoDB, Redis,
memory, uh, maybe another one in there somewhere, but MongoDB doesn't have a binary for the
Pi.
So I couldn't use that.
I wasn't about to, I wasn't about to spend the next century compiling.
Uh, cause yeah, that's, that's an ARM board.
So yeah.
Yeah, it's, it's really not fast, but Redis is, uh, there's a version and luckily there's
already a new JS binary.
So, uh, snatch both of those and that's, that's how I've got to set up using the Redis
database.
And when I was setting, setting mine up, I set up status net and that needed my SQL.
And then I did media goblin and that wanted MongoDB.
And then I was doing pump and I think I remember Redis and I'm like, do I really need three
databases running on the server or could they have all shared?
Yeah.
I'm not a database guy, so it's like a, it's a black box of mystery to me.
Yeah, they're, uh, I hate databases, I really don't like them.
They crash them very easily.
Yeah, they're, they're necessary for, for some things, but they get a little out of
hand.
I think my SQL was just big and bloated and I really don't want to use it.
Hmm.
It's, that was, uh, one, another thing on my VPS it, the MySQL RAM usage would continually
ramp up over three gigabytes.
No.
My VPS is expected three gig, but it's not a dedicated three gig, there's a $4 VPS.
So it would, uh, whenever I would hit that limit, it would just shut it down and reboot
automatically.
Oh, no.
Oh, I think this might be a, you get what you're paid for.
Yeah, exactly.
That is definitely true.
Uh, so I just don't run my SQL anymore and, uh, I, you know, since I'm not doing it,
I couldn't substitute that, so I joined the, uh, the quitter gigantic instance over there.
Yeah.
People, uh, a lot of people got on quitter and, uh, fragdev, when it goes fragdev, he's
probably got 30 or 40 people in there.
Yes, it's really grown up a lot, uh, which is great though.
That's, that's awesome.
It is cool, but at the same time, I know that he always says this can crash at any time.
So he must be, this must be on the edge of the seat for him.
Now he's got 40 people depending on him.
Yeah, that's, uh, a little responsibility there, I guess, but as long as they're aware
that it could crash at any time, yeah, it should be, should be okay.
Uh, I'm always kind of prepared for anything to crash at any time, give them my experience.
Yeah, that's, that's me too.
I'm just bumbling along with this, uh, all this online stuff.
I never really had a online presence or a BPS or so this is, it's me just fooling around.
Basically, I'm, I'm enjoying it, but it doesn't guarantee it's going to stay up.
Yeah, exactly.
Actually, I just put up an HPR yesterday or day before and if you listen to it,
you'll hear about some troubles I recently had.
Hmm.
Yeah, I'll keep my G Potter thing open, syncing up.
Yeah.
So, uh, did you follow any to, yeah, I'll try that again.
Did you follow any tutorials or, uh, do you have any, like, good resources
if somebody's looking into pump?
Uh, yeah.
So, uh, I think the best one is J-Popes.
He is blog has a few entries in there, which are pretty good to follow.
Hmm.
Um, and he also really goes into detail on the, uh, proxy setup.
I think he's an engine X or engines or how are you going to say that?
Um, so he's, I think he's got his config files posted on his blog and, um,
a lot of detail is the, how to set all the different parameters often on my,
on my blog that I is currently down because my VPS crashed this morning.
I also had a post where I, uh, you're telling everybody how to set up pump or,
or to get into pump and both of our stuff's crashing lately, but go ahead.
Yeah.
So I went through everything that, uh, I went through to set it all up from,
from ground zero on the pie, um, and I stopped skipping the, the proxying,
which I think I probably will try.
As long as I'll break it, I would like to do that, uh, and set up a proxy and get it working that way.
Hmm.
Uh, so, so I can update that up.
I've gotten kind of mixed, uh, opinions on whether it'll break the existing set up or not.
So that'll be, that'll be fun.
Could be the next blog entry.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, we'll have to, uh, what else is in the show notes?
Yeah, yeah, we'll have to do that.
One thing that is, I guess, important to point out, uh, Patrick, uh,
however I can't, but I think it is, uh, has, he's running Redis as well.
And he's had problems where he's hitting a memory limit.
Oh.
Redis seems to kind of continually increase memory usage, uh, not very quickly on, on my
instance, anyway, I think I'm using one, around 170 meg of memory.
Okay.
But it does continually increase.
So I think I've got 60 meg free on the pie right now.
Um, so it could be a problem at some point.
Was this the 512 pie or the two of it just got the 512 on the 512?
I have my pie and I just can't think of a use for it.
And it sits in my bag and I bring it to the log and stuff.
And it's a cool little board.
I've got a Raspi MC running as a XBMC server and, um, it's pretty slick.
I put the, uh, I did the arch distribution for it.
So I got to somewhere around here as an SD card with that still on there.
One of these days, I'll find a project and make that thing do something.
Yeah.
I've got a LCD panel, a nine that I built from the eight fruit kit and, you know,
I kind of set it up and played it with a little bit.
And then I've been kind of trying to think of something I can do with that.
Yeah, when you put up that picture, I was like, oh, he's, he's, he's using his
Rp, I saw the LCD on it and you have actually have it doing something.
So that's cool.
Yeah, kind of doing something played with it, but, uh, I kind of, uh,
I might get it to display some pump IO air logs or, or start flashing red or something.
When there's, when it's now, uh, I don't know when somebody says your name,
have it pop up the message.
Hey, that'd be kind of cool.
So how are you finding pump in general?
Uh, I like it.
Uh, I mean, there's some drawbacks, obviously, but, uh, in general,
I think it's, uh, improved platform and, um,
I'm finding, finding it a bit difficult.
Like it seems like the conversation's gone over there.
Conversation is the weak point.
Okay, uh, yeah, it's, it's really hard to keep up with.
There's a lot of work and I don't know.
I think Evan is working on that or made come up with something.
But, uh, right now you only get mentions or notifications for
if someone replies on your post.
Yeah, okay.
Or if you're directly mentioned, I guess, in the, the two or CC thing.
Cause like, uh, status and identity, uh, I think a bunch of us just basically use it
like IRC. Yeah.
So it was a little difficult over on pump when, you know, I say something in the
morning, go to work, come back at lunch and then I'm scrolling, scrolling to see
if anybody replied to it and, but, yeah.
So if, uh, like I reply on your notice and then you reply back to me in the
same thread there, I wouldn't be notified.
Yeah, uh, that's, that's a problem, I think.
And then the, uh, the threading of a conversation, like if, if it was five or
six notices long and I want to answer somebody up on three, like, and it's
going to take it off in like a little different direction, you still have to
reply it to the whole entire thread as far as I can tell.
Yeah, I think on the web interface you can reply directly to a comment.
Okay.
So it does kind of get threaded, but then threading may or may not actually be
supported because if you do comment on a comment, it just kind of goes, uh, I
think it's called the, uh, loss to the sense of time bug.
Oh, at that point, it doesn't get displayed in the web interface at all.
Oh, um, I do think whoever created the comment that you posted or reply to
doesn't get a notification, but no one else can see it on the web interface.
It doesn't get pulled in.
Hmm.
It's, I just didn't know if the web interface was
personally unintuitive for me or if I was just missing it or, I think it's
kind of unintuitive for everyone.
Okay.
All right.
It's not really, I really don't like the web interfaces.
I did just kind of bad.
I did hear Evan say, like, I hope someone comes along and makes it better
web interface.
I think he's like focused right on the back end.
It's my opinion of what, from what he said.
Yeah, that's, I think he also, that he said that in the, uh, was that tin out?
Yes, it is.
Um, yeah, so that would be cool.
If somebody else came along made another web interface that doesn't have JavaScript
or it's different or better or, yeah, and there's some, uh, clients are starting to
pop up, uh, Puma and Pumpa.
Yeah, and there's a dinara and impeller.
Oh, I haven't, I've heard of dinara, but I never looked at it.
I never heard of impeller.
Yeah, impeller is another, uh, Android client.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, I'll check that out then.
So they're, uh, they're pretty good.
They're kind of, you know, they're, they're really new.
So they're lacking some features, I think, but, uh, I'll kind of bounce back
and forth on my desktop between Pumpa and dinara.
Well, I think it's safe to say this is all pretty, you know.
Yeah, that's definitely true.
How long has Pump really been around, uh, four months?
Yes, something like that.
And then identical switched over maybe about a month ago.
So yeah, that brought, I think, uh, 20,000 some users into it that
most of them, I think, couldn't log in from the, from the start.
Yeah, that was another thing that Evan mentioned in tin app, but he, he, he had
the hashes, but he had no way to put the passwords into the new database.
So everybody had to set up a new password.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, well, I don't remember if I was able to log into my, I think
I did log into my old, I did get count.
I then, yeah, I, I did finally get in, but I had to, like, uh, do that request
a new password and then you, you get an email and go to a special page and put
it in a new password.
Yeah, I think there were some problems where people didn't have a valid e-mode
rest or something to, oh, yeah, that could be.
And they were just kind of locked out until they, there were a lot of messages
on GitHub people saying they couldn't get a password.
I guess Evan handled those on a one-on-one basis.
Yeah, that, that one on one was quite a lot of work in the, in the,
in the dying days of, not the dying days, but before the transition and
identical, just people, I want all my notices and I want all this and it's
like, the man is busy.
Yeah, I can't imagine that's, that's a lot of work to be working on, you
know, uh, the new interface and pump IO and everything and also trying to get
everybody their data and keep everybody happy.
Yeah, I mean, it's a keep everybody from panicking.
He gave like a six month warning and a four month warning and a one month
warning and still it kind of seemed to surprise at much people.
Yeah, I still call everyone bus bus for us.
I think the migration itself took four or five weeks.
And it was only supposed to take a few days or something like that.
Yeah, it was, it was quite a while.
Wow, you are having a wrestling match downstairs.
Man, yeah, I was wondering if that was coming through my kids are back there
in the, in the back of the house and I guess playing or yelling or stabbing
each other.
Shouldn't you be babysitting?
Nobody's nobody's, uh, well, crying or bleeding yet.
So I guess it's okay.
We got the car warmed up 911 ready to go.
But dammit, I'm going to get this HPR out.
Dedication.
Yeah.
All right.
So cool, uh, someone found a use for their pie.
That's awesome.
And yeah, and it's, uh, it's pumping away for sure.
Oh, you, you mentioned your, or you did get a beagle bone.
Yeah, I've got, yeah, you said you were going to order something.
This was a recent dent that you were going to order something new.
Yes, maybe you should mention that just real quick.
Uh, I did get a beagle bone and I'm going to try to use that to limit the retis, uh,
uh, risk, I guess with the database ram usage.
Okay.
So I'd like to split my red ass server over onto the beagle bone, keep running the pump on the pie.
And that would kind of federate my federation, uh, to split up the resources a little bit.
I just pictured you, you just got like a little tiny rack server of our pies and beagle bones with all the lights on.
That's cool.
Yeah, I'd like to build a little rack or something for you.
Take a picture.
I'll have to see a picture of that.
A Lego rack.
Yeah, that'd be cool.
So any contact details or, um, well, my website when it's up is J Rob dot org and, uh, it's currently down.
But I guess I'm on the quitter.
Not SC is J Rob to V's and of course, pump, uh, and the, you know, of course, pump, which is a J Rob at pie dot J Rob dot org,
which luckily I changed my DNS over a few weeks ago from my, uh, shady server, where I won't mention the name.
So, so now I've got independent DNS and my pump will still work.
Okay, so, uh, I'm NY bill at gun monkey that dot net and status net is SN dot gun monkey that dot net.
And I am on pump, but I'm checking it less frequently.
I'm hoping I'm going to check in and all the bugs are going to be shaken out and there's going to be comment buttons and stuff.
So I'm going to keep on checking into it.
Yeah, I'm actually going to get better up top.
Yeah, okay, cool.
We finally, we finally got one recorded.
Finally, yeah, we get together here.
I'll talk to you later, man.
All right, see you later.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the economical computer club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are proudly sponsored by Lina Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinaPages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a like, free dose of our lives.
