Episode: 1873
Title: HPR1873: TiT Radio 21 - I Thought I Had Better Links
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1873/hpr1873.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 10:39:09

---

This is HPR Episode 1873 entitled,
TIT Radio 21, I thought I had met a link
and is part of the series, TIT Radio.
It is hosted by 5150 and is about 70 minutes long.
The summary is TIT Radio Rides Again.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by
an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair
at An Honesthost.com.
The best way to get around that is to use marshmallows.
Or get some panniholes and start tying off
like little bundles of peanut butter.
Like put some peanut butter in some cloth
and like take some string and tie it around
the actual like a trigger plate there.
So if they have to actually try to get into it
and when they do it'll depress the plate and kill them.
I've switched to those plastic
mouse traps from the old standard wooden ones
with the wire.
They got a little cup in them and I almost have to
I mean they really have to get in there to get it.
So they've been working well.
Jesus Christ, you think something that does podcast
would have a good internet connection?
We're recording.
So are we doing KPO or TIT radio tonight?
Well since Peter's not going to be here I think it's a TIT.
We're having a TIT.
And what is our policy on cursing?
It's a free for all.
Yeah well that's not going to work as soon as I started recording
the connection drop long enough to kick me out.
So if someone besides K wish or wants to record just in case
I'll do the editing you guys when you guys is in the to me.
I'm not sure I can make it past 1130.
I'm recording.
Okay well let's get started folks continuing the TIT radio
tradition this evening on Hacker Public Radio.
This will be episode 121.
I'm your host this evening 5150 and also on the channel we have
you guys not hearing me again.
You dropped off and you started the introduction.
I heard him.
Well in any case we also have K Wisher.
evening we've got NetMine here.
evening thank you folks.
And we have TJ.
Now I didn't hear you TJ.
Um hopefully everyone else did.
And we all hear each other.
I heard TJ with a little creek.
I've heard everyone but 5150 at times.
Okay I said if somebody drops off mids and it's
those are in the IRC drop drop something in there.
Folks listening I think I've been having some ISP problems.
So I think it's actually dropping off more often than I know.
But it's apparently just almost immediately.
I mean dropping off and coming back and I think it takes
mumble down when it does that.
So I let's hope we can finish the podcast
with a minimum of technical difficulties.
And if you've been listening to PR a few weeks ago we posted
TIT radio 120.
So I think everybody should listen.
Should be familiar for what we're doing here.
It's sort of a news discussion general
B. S.ing group that used to air on.
Well I guess I shouldn't say used to because we're back again.
That airs on Packer Public Radio on the on the weekends
that almost said KPO not KPO.
Lennox Hacks was Lennox Cranks.
Lennox Hacks would be a good podcast though.
Lennox Cranks was recorded.
So we've got since KPO hasn't been on in a few weeks
with people not being around.
I've already been scolded for the sheer number of links
that I pasted into the Google Docs.
So does anybody have one that they like?
They'd like to start talking about.
Okay, how about we start with 10 or 1000 self-targeting
sniper rifles can be remotely hacked.
Can anyone touch?
Hey, what's going everybody?
Howdy.
Hey, man, what's going on?
Tonight, that has a mumble.
Is there any easy way to click on a link in the Google Doc
and open a page?
I, and remember where would you do this on a
Linux floodcast?
I have to physically ace the link.
Right click and
and one of the options is open the link.
Okay, so there goes my mouse again down the hallway.
Yeah, I think this is interesting.
We were so proud a year ago where we had
these self-targeting sniper rifles for the military
that were powered by Linux.
But in other words,
the rather than the shooter-guessing windage
and elevation and all that,
that the scope was supposed to do it for him.
Unfortunately, it looks like to get it working,
they pretty much turned off all any
and all security features in Linux.
So they have Wi-Fi.
So you could remotely log into these guns
with no credentials at all.
Now, the good part is you can't actually make
them fire remotely.
That's still requires a trigger pull.
But you can definitely get in there
and change the parameter so that the sites aren't accurate.
So they actually determine what part is the
flaw of the Linux part or the Android part.
I'm trying to scroll down in my browser
when it's going to lock up.
I've got one of my other problems.
I've got darn many tabs open.
I guess this came out of Black Hat.
I guess these must be some really dedicated hackers.
It's Runa Sandvik and her husband, Michael Auger,
and they said they tested on two
of the $13,000 self-aiding rifles.
So I'm assuming they bought these themselves,
but they figured out how to brick the rifle,
how to make targeting unstable,
and getting root access to the targeting system.
I guess the company really doesn't care
because they're no longer shipping any rifles.
Like, probably nobody wanted to pay $13,000 for a rifle.
But no, okay, I wish you to answer your question.
The article doesn't say very much on exactly how
they exploited the rifle itself.
Actually, I know the Barats have a similar capability.
So there are some very expensive stuff that works that way.
I have always wanted to fire one of those.
Like, I don't know if I'd want to do it much,
but just one time.
Well, they have this guy, you know, at the top of the page,
firing as fast as he can pull the trigger.
I don't think at that point, the sites are doing
pretty much good.
I know that there's a 15-year-old girl who fires a Barat.
Look, I have no problem admitting
that I'm probably weaker than a 15-year-old girl
when it comes to gun recoil hitting me.
Actually, I saw Kelly Pickler wrapped around one of them.
It was amazing that the gun was about her size.
She was doing a tour out in the sandbox somewhere.
Another one I thought that would be interesting
to some of the friends of the show
is Doc, the smartwatch,
Braille smartwatch for the visually impaired.
But can I wink it up to my smart sniper rifle?
Well, if you did, though, can you beat the hackers?
So does it work like a scope?
Like you just put the Braille watch up to your eye
and the little dots tell you where to aim?
Like just poaching the eye and think you're wrong.
That'd be kind of awesome, not gonna lie.
Hey, I met a blind guy in astronomy class.
Strange things happen.
I guess I have to learn to read Braille now.
I tried doing that just in an experiment
and chees, this is that hard.
I remember with somebody over at MIT
who had a Braille printer,
it uses the modified teletype, no lie,
in a ton of the Braille flip chips.
Okay, well, our goal in the picture,
you see this smartwatch has four sets of six dots.
Well, the six dots are sort of pins that slide up and down,
which raise and lower speeds of up to 100 per second
to produce four Braille characters at the time.
So if you've ever seen sneakers
and you had the one member of the team who was blind,
he had this, that he could hook up to the computer
and put his faggers on.
And those are an actual thing.
That was his interface to the computer.
So this is kind of a smaller version of that,
no display at all.
I mean, it's kind of a cool idea
that I think culturally we have this need
for some new way to transmit information
that is not looking at a screen,
because I think that's where the whole wearable thing
comes from, people are complaining.
I don't want to take it out of my pocket.
Would it be cool if we all understood
some kind of haptic system like Braille
to where all your notifications just like you felt them?
You didn't have to look at anything.
I think that would be a cool idea.
I'm not sure anybody would learn it
unless it was pretty ubiquitous.
Yeah, but I'm wondering how far away we are from something.
Oh, well, probably a little less geeky
or obvious to the outside of Google Glass.
I think at some time we'll have at least
like a contact with all that air
that would display that sort of information for us.
Yeah, but there have been studies that show
that like visual input is not the best way
to take in information like that,
and that actually could be frankly kind of dangerous.
So I'm sure that there will be some kind of research
into something else.
It's just a to one of those things that I've thought about.
Like what other ways can we transfer that information
that was less intrusive?
I still want the smartwatch tattoo.
I would think it'd be easier to make a watch
that just push a button
and it audibly gave the time in a lot cheaper.
But I don't want that more annoying.
Well, the article mentions that.
You know, why don't you Siri or something
quit one and they're saying to be
visually impaired and individuals find that
more impersonal than this?
I mean, Roy, $300 is what it was.
This doesn't seem like such a bad deal.
It's not that expensive.
Compared to other accessibility things
that's not expensive at all.
That's remarkably cheap.
And I didn't.
There's a couple of things I thought we might
about that we talked about.
Well, we kind of talked it to death last night
on Linux logcast after reading a link
that Kay wish reposted.
And I'll add to the show notes it seems
as if thanks may not be quite as bad
as how they look.
What we're talking about.
The FCC has gone to the vice manufacturers
with some new rules and say,
you know, we need you to show us
there's no way to modify your software
and you software to modify the operating
parameters of your of your Wi-Fi radius
because I guess some of the cheaper
routers have gone to software on the
chipboard.
I guess the radio, the CPU,
are actually the same chip.
So it would be very hard to
isolate the one from the other.
And the other thing is they've gone to
or working towards going to
software to find radio for everything
because it's cheaper to build
one generic radio chip
than it is to build one,
build separate ones for Wi-Fi
and different ones for other uses.
If you listen to TILTS
this past Wednesday, they had a guest
from say Wi-Fi.
And also put that link in the show notes.
He's Chris Wade, who's a CEO
or thanked Penguin, who makes
computers with Linux-free installed.
And they're afraid it looks like
they not only may affect
whether we can have open-source software
on routers, but that they might
effectively ban open-source software
on any computing device.
Now, I'll find the link
and but it was pretty credible source
and no, because there's some statements
from the FCC that they're saying,
but the FCC is saying,
now all we wanted was assurances
that these devices could not be used
to maliciously or otherwise
interfered off the radar.
At Runways, we know
that at no time intended
for the manufacturers of these devices
to solve the problem
by banning people from installing
whatever software they wanted on their device.
Do you guys get off?
I know I tend to break up
when I go to swallocque mode.
Yeah, it seemed to make sense.
Also, I know that on the receiving side,
certain European
SDR-TV dongles can be pushed
way outside the television bands
for all kinds of
radio reception, including aircraft
beacons of various kinds.
Well, Rob fun.
That was the first thing
came out a couple years ago
was the European TV.
Reminds me, maybe I should buy one
before they locked them up.
He's got one or is planning
to get one to experiment,
but he's got a ham license.
But they can be sold to anybody,
whether you have a license or not,
whether you have malicious or
intent or not,
or whether you know what you're doing or not.
I've been thinking for a while
that man, the FCC is going to bring
the ban hammer down on that.
But at least a good thing,
I think the FCC is smart enough to know
there are people out here using open source.
Maybe on the cheap routers,
they would let them get away
that it would be very hard
to isolate the radio
from the rest of the components
as far as code-wise.
That might be an unintended consequence,
but it might be acceptable to them
for the manufacturer coming up.
Well, the only way we locked down
this router is to have
signed firmware,
that only our firm work can do all.
But they've already said it was not their intention
to ban things like OpenWRT and DDWRT
as long as OpenWRT and DDWRT
don't include tools that would
see that for the five-gingerhertz,
they've had to open up
enough bandwidth.
Their update, those routers
can actually operate
in the same frequencies as the Doppler radar.
The only problem is,
is your house is right there on the runway,
you would interfere,
and their software
in there to say,
okay, if you can hear one of these airport radars,
you can't use those bands.
And the statement from the FCC that I saw,
or supposedly from the FCC,
says that as long as OpenWRT
and whatever you put on the router,
it abides by that.
It doesn't let you override it
and interfere with those radars.
You know, we're cool with open-source software.
And I really think,
and the onus on this is on the device manufacturer.
So they're not quite going to go to win,
if somebody had a Windows computer,
they would have to, you know,
Microsoft would have to
put a certification on every piece of software that's installed,
you know, probably set it up
the only way you could put software on Windows
is through the Microsoft Store,
and that may be something that they want to do anyway.
I'm not sure if they're that point yet,
where they decided to do it.
So you would have,
since the onus is on the manufacturer,
use the manufacturer,
said, set it up so you could only install Windows,
then you'd have to get cooperation with Microsoft
so that Microsoft would, you know,
only install certified software.
Just to kind of clarify,
for that matter,
I don't think the FCC will ever come after those TV dongles
because they're only received.
You can't transmit on them.
It just doesn't have the stuff in it to do it.
So it's basically a glorified antenna.
So I'm just a way to process the signals
that are coming over it.
So I don't think they'll ever come for that
because there's no risk of that being dangerous
to any frequencies.
I just wanted to put,
by the time this show gets out,
probably everybody will have heard of that,
but there's a,
I'll put it in a link anyway.
And the main thrust of this is,
there is a period of open comments of the FCC
that by the time this show comes out,
you should be able to get to the site and comment.
That'll be opened October 9.
And just if you hear my voice,
if you care about being able to run
whatever software you want on your computing devices,
you need to participate in that survey.
The comment period,
say, you know,
do a few paragraphs on why you need to run open source,
why you think it's more secure,
why it's your device,
and you do ought to be able to decide what to run on it.
And so we don't come up with a time
where the software companies
and the hardware companies get together and say,
yeah, run there and change it.
Or rather than doing anything to change our hardware,
isolating the radio part over to whatever,
we've just decided to walk down the software
and walk everybody else out.
From the statement I saw from somebody,
supposedly from the FCC,
it doesn't,
you know,
they were from categorically denying
that their idea of a solution
was to ban open source.
But if they don't think anybody cares,
who knows?
So we need to get out there
and make sure they know we have a voice.
Sounds like they're going to require
some kind of radio of BIOS,
so depending on your region,
you say I'm in the USA,
and that gives you a certain locale
with certain channels, power levels, etc.
Well, it's, you know,
and that is one of the things that they did with EWRT,
it may have to,
in OpenWRT, they have to change,
is that Europe allows the wife,
at least a 2.4 gigahertz Wi-Fi,
and everything says they really don't have
a 2.4 gigahertz.
The broadcast is slightly higher powered
than what's allowed in America,
because America has this,
has a lower standard for power output
than most of the rest of the world.
And rather than, you know,
making one version of the router for America
and one version for everybody else,
you know, they don't have to do that.
They make just one version,
and then their firmware can controls,
you know, keeps it from going as high as it could,
as the hardware would let it do.
So that's probably one thing,
you know, they may have to see what,
what doing, but no, that minor,
I really don't think you're going to see
different versions for different countries,
because it's my understanding,
pretty much whatever the FCC
decides, Canada falls suit,
all of Europe falls suit,
most of the rest of the world
in the United States,
in exact same regulations.
Well, I know that Wi-Fi in Japan
has some more channels.
Okay, do we hear that Google's now Alphabet?
It depends on what Alphabet does
with the Google world,
including like YouTube.
Well, I think it may make it
easier to get rid of parts that
they think aren't making money,
you know, it might be easier to get rid of G-plus now,
but I really don't think it's going anywhere.
Honestly, at this point,
I wouldn't be too upset if it did go away.
The only thing that G-plus does for me
is give me some way of commenting on YouTube,
and YouTube had a comment system
before G-plus was hammered onto it.
Right, then they're supposed to be
separated in the beginning.
Yeah, but if G-plus shuts down,
what's the alternative?
I mean, like Facebook.
I mean, a lot of people who don't want to use that,
there's not much other choice.
Not that G-plus is much better than Facebook,
but it's another case where I wish there was
something more open and federated.
Well, there is, we just don't use it.
Google Groups are using that.
Well, I was actually talking about diaspora.
Yeah, but that's the problem.
I've never used diaspora,
and I don't know anybody who does.
It's that kind of, there's the hurdle to the whole thing,
like we would everybody as a community
would have to jump ship and go to something new,
and nobody has used anything to try it yet,
I guess, is the problem.
Well, I wonder if it has anything to do
with getting away from the government
deciding who goes in the Nopole.
Probably in Europe.
I think they'd have more of a go over there
than they would here.
It may allow Google wherever to comply
with regulations in various countries,
including like communist China,
by having separate Googles for every legal domain.
A Google working within the Great Firewall
is going to be a very different Google
from the one that you and I use, I hope.
And expectedly, the first Google firm,
sorry, the first Windows 10 patch
caused infinite reboots in a lot of their systems.
The reading of it was caused by something about,
well, it's fixed by removing security
information from the registry for users
that had been deleted.
So I can't imagine that that might be a problem
on big corporate installations,
but not probably for the average home user.
The interesting thing that I found was
that they're adding the same kind of bugging
patches to Windows 7 and Windows 8.
Well, of course, that way the users
don't have any incentive anymore, not the updates.
If Windows 7 becomes just as much
the NSA-inspired software, there's 10,
you might as well get the free update.
See, I knew when they were like,
oh, you can upgrade the Windows 10 for free.
I knew there was going to be some kind of hook
and that's the one we get to track everything you do.
From what I've been hearing lately is that
they are back-porting all that tracking stuff.
And to Windows 7 and 8, that's what's bothering me.
Well, I know some ways around it,
VPNs and have your windows just run virtual box machines
talking to something else as your portal to the internet.
There has to be some kind of kill switch
for like all that phone home stuff somewhere in there,
because I can't imagine like a massive business
with thousands of users using Windows.
I mean, even if it's a small amount of bandwidth,
that's a sizeable amount of bandwidth going over your network.
Well, I mean, it depends on whose article you read.
I've seen articles say, oh, it's not that bad.
You can go here and here and here and over there
and that place in this place and individually turn the stuff off
and then and other articles, so no, you can't get up.
You get some of it, but you can't get all of it.
Well, for one thing, there's regulatory stuff
that there's dropping all over.
I know, in a recent security now podcast,
Steve Gibson, like, covered some of that,
and he said he would absolutely not move to Windows 10
because of all the security issues and the founding home issues.
Looks like at least over 10 years of expedient.
No, the smart ones will turn Windows into a shell
and run VMs through it in spite of it.
But why when there's Linux?
I just can't, but I mean, I understand,
you know, it's the most popular operating system,
but if you don't like it, you know, like I do,
and I refuse to use it unless I have to,
I just can't understand why somebody would keep using it
with all these backdoors and
running home, collecting data collection type stuff.
Well, simple, use it as a drivers life form.
That's why I'm using it.
I have a number of screens running on display length
that Linux just doesn't support yet.
You missed the last part of our show last night,
and that might have got the display length
working now over USB 3.0.
Yeah, I have USB 2 that I bought specifically
for Linux compatibility, but it's still a hairy thing
to try to run multiple Xs.
And multi-C seems to have gone the way of Fedora 17.
And we've also had the, sorry, I stepped out for a minute.
We also had the problem of Windows 10.
You can't disable automatic updates.
So that might not be a horrible idea for a home user,
but it's your computer.
You ought to be able to decide when you update,
but I mean, it's got to be disastrous
for a lot of these corporations where they,
you know, they test updates before they allow them
to go to the clients.
That forbidden updates, which is only on the home versions,
if you buy the corporate version,
you have control of that switch.
Okay, I'd seen a YouTube video for somebody at work was on Pro
and they couldn't disable it there either.
Well, at least that's what they were selling it as.
They might have changed their mind in midstream
like the sneaky devils they are.
And of course, when they're on, I was going to say it's just another way
for them to sneakily just like destroy your grob setup every time that updates.
And of course, I think the first security thing came out was that, you know,
that if it, it hands, if your machine knows a wireless password,
it passes it along to every other machine on the network that you hook, that you hook up to.
So, I mean, if you're going from one place to another on a work network
where the clients can talk to each other,
then everybody on that work network is going to know your home wireless password.
I don't think that's the way that works.
I mean, you have to, from what I heard from security now,
you have, there's something you have to enable and then there's,
you have to say you have a user comes into your home and wants to get on your Wi-Fi.
The person who controls the Wi-Fi has to give them permission.
It will pass the key to somebody that they allow.
It just doesn't pass it along to anybody.
Yeah, but the way I'd understood.
Welcome back 50.
Please restart your statement.
Oh, you guys didn't get that. I didn't realize it's gone.
I'm just saying, if the Wi-Fi password sharing was as bad as originally reported,
surely by now somebody Microsoft has recognized what a costly, bad idea that was
and changed it so it's only off the end.
Well, you know that the home groups enable sharing about everything on your system,
and that's a Windows 7 feature.
Because networking is just too hard for the average Windows user.
Right, and giving people decent controls would be too hard for the average.
Microsofty.
Well, I kind of have this one interesting.
The CREBS on security that ubiquity suffered a $46 million cyber-hized.
How big is ubiquity if they're not just out of business now?
I guess what they did, they actually all they did was send email.
I'm amazed companies do business this way in the 21st century, but essentially they spoofed
emails from companies executives to somebody in the financial part of the company and says,
transfer $20 million to this Swiss bank account.
And I know it's a Swiss bank account, but a bank account somewhere, then of course the criminals
grabbed the money from and took off.
And of course, you know, it's easy enough to make it seem you don't have to actually get a
hold of the email server. You can make the two strings, whatever you want.
And unless you're looking deeper into the email, you would, you know, average person wouldn't know.
And I mean, they're not doing anything terribly sophisticated. They're just they're just
sending an email from Yahoo or wherever and changing the two from string to be somebody inside
the company and that's all it takes. My still honor, guys, just not an interesting subject.
No, it's interesting. We're just listening. Also, I've thought about trying to treat,
well, let's see, some of my medical professionals about secure email that don't think it would get
very far. I guess one way they do a registered domain that is, you know, one letter different from
the company's real domain name or might look like a subsidiary or something and, you know, you
throw in TJ at crap.com or something like that. If TJ was the president, then take all their money.
Makwa's off. I mean, I guess it's usually done with, you know, they just wire money to the
account in China. Man, we should all be crooks. It's that easy. So that's what Peter's doing.
Well, if he comes back driving a rose, you know where he got the money.
I guess ubiquity has said they've already recovered $8.1 million and another $7 million, they think
they can get back. In other words, the cripples didn't take withdrawal of money from the Chinese
account fast enough. So they got out there and said, no, no, no, no, no, this is an ill transfer
and we want our money back. But that's still, you know, $30 million that they lost out right,
looks like. And the drawback is, I mean, you can't just say, you know, show up the bank and withdraw
your $40 million. Yes, but would you trust people with this idea of security with security devices
on your system? No, but that isn't that the definition of CEO. So you got to hire somebody,
doesn't know what to think about security. Also, aren't there the people who do the edge
router that people were thinking about putting things like, uh, uh, P.O.C. on or whatnot?
Yep, you're right, net monitor. Maybe the P.O.C. people should make them an offer
and they'd have their own hardware company just just by the edge portion of the throw.
They couldn't do any worse than the company that's running it now.
Well, like I said, this, this, this is a social engineering hack had nothing to do with their
electronic security. I mean, this is easy to feed as, uh, you know, making, making phone calls
as, uh, Mr. Johnson, did you, did you really just tell me to send $45 million to China?
Yeah, well, that's what you get of making the average worker scared of his boss enough
that he won't bother him even when he should. And of course, once again, Lenovo has been, uh,
caught, uh, Mr. Fingers in the security pie, uh, essentially put a root kit on their, uh,
on their machine. So even if you wiped it and installed your own copy of windows,
with the, uh, uh, all the Lenovo crapware would come back on its own.
Damn, I've been thinking about getting an old Lenovo, but I don't know whether I could trust it.
Well, I've got a T60 sitting here right now. I think that's probably old enough.
Yeah, I was thinking T60's T61 running Linux as my portable.
Apparently, the software quotes in system data to a note to a Lenovo server to help us understand
how our customers use our products in order to spyware. What it's doing, the BIOS on the,
on the machine checks for, uh, C colon slash windows slash system 32 slash autocheck.exe to see
if it's a microphone, if it's the original Microsoft version or a Lenovo signed one. And if it's,
if it's the Microsoft, when it overrides it with a Lenovo, Lenovo's version. And auto,
autocheck is executed on boot, uh, and then it downloads Lenovo, Lenovo update.exe and Lenovo
check.exe, which set up a service and download other spyware files. Apparently, there is a security
bolt and, uh, I guess it doesn't mean many details, but it says that hackers have found the way to
use Lenovo service engine to install their own malicious software. Thanks, Kate. I wish you're
for coming on. We'll see you later. There is a patch available, but you have to know about it.
And download it yourself that the patch, uh, removes all of this from your BIOS and gets rid of it.
You know, funny thing, Microsoft was, was bugging the system anyway, could look at Lenovo's and
remind you you need to patch your BIOS. Well, actually, Lenovo is, is using a technique sanctioned
by Microsoft. I mean, it was, uh, Microsoft's idea in the first place. Windows platform binary cable,
uh, K-bought in 2011. In other words, Microsoft provided Lenovo with the tools to do this.
How many other people have they handed the same tool kit to?
Well, well, if malware got a hold of this, you know, you'd never be able to clean the infection
from your machine. And the article being the show notes, and I'm not going to go through the show
notes and read as we didn't talk about. So just like last time, uh, dear listener, you may find
other interesting information in the show notes. Let's see, it's like, uh, partial list at least
is the Flex2 Pro 15, the Edge 15 Flex 3, 14, 70, 15, 70, and 11, 20, G40, G80, G50, the G, uh, or,
okay, G40 dash, 80, G50 dash, 80, G50 dash, 80 touch, B3000, S21, E, S41, 70,
slash U40 to 70, S345, slash M4035, yoga 314, yoga 311, Y480, Z41 dash, 70 slash, 750 dash,
70, and, uh, Z70 dash, 80 slash G80, or G70 dash, 80. So I don't know how big a, uh,
part of Lenovo's lineup that is, but probably just like last time was to consume our models,
not the, uh, pro models. I think I may just get a copy of that Lenovo tool that I'm cleaning
the system up, run it by default, because eventually, you know, you know, the, uh, the malware
guys will get ahold of this. And if they're, you know, if they're smart enough to hack a bias,
well, gentlemen, what's the next topic? Oh, that's saying, I need to, I need to put the topic,
put the link back into the bumble-moves for those of joined right, but, uh, I've been picking all
the topics, guys, you can, you can see them, uh, uh, Bitcoin, it looks good. I've got one to talk about.
Let's talk about the, uh, article about the game kid kickstarter because nobody should
back this at all. Okay, that's the one's the Game Boy Club. Yes. And the reason I say nobody
should back this thing is because there is a, basically, the exact same thing as an adafruit
article. And you can download and print all the pieces and put it together yourself. And that's
better. Just do that. How would, uh, the, uh, price of, uh, sourcing your own components compared to
what they're asking for in the crowd button? To be honest, I'm not sure. It would be a lot less
for me because I have a 3D printer. And I probably have all that, the case materials,
just laying around. I could do that myself. Um, I'm not even sure how much the kickstarter's
asking for. Let me look. I'll just say that might, that would probably be the deciding factor
where you had access to 3D print. Yeah, but there are things, there are different ways to get access
to a 3D printer if you don't have one. So, like, you could go to 3D hubs or something like that
and just somebody locally or even not locally, you could, you know, pay somebody to print it for you.
There's, there's lots of resources out there for people like, I know I keep hearing that as an
excuse for why people don't want to make things or like, oh, well, it takes a 3D printer and,
but there are ways to use a 3D printer even if you don't have one.
Well, I think also, I think the fact that they're willing to package everything for you is what's
going to hook the man on the street. I also don't see this actually making it to production without
the tendo assuming the ever-loving bejesus out of them. Well, I assume you probably have to,
you probably still have to go out and download the ROMs yourself. Surely they're not stupid enough
to sell product with the ROMs pre-installed. No, I'm not even talking about that. I mean, just
even the design of the unit, just the case. I mean, it's obvious that that's where it came from.
I'm pretty sure if they wanted to push the issue, they could probably make a case out of it.
I think you're right about that. Of course, it's a whole lot more tricky than an actual game,
boy. I mean, look at this thing. I wouldn't want to hold it up in my hands for more than about 10
minutes of the time. So it looks like it's about $140 to get everything that you want. And I would say
that's probably pretty similar to just buying the kit and putting it together. And the nice thing
about the kit is if you know how to change the case files and you know a little electronics,
you can do whatever you want. You can add new buttons and do lots of stuff to it. So I don't
know, it just seems more flexible to me to build one, but I have the skills. So maybe if you
want into that, but there's tons of like ROM emulator, little handheld things now. I just can't see
spend $140 on it if there wasn't something more to it. Yeah, Raspberry Pi based whatever.
Well, this is a Raspberry Pi based. It's just that they're doing everything for you.
I mean, if I was going to go the way of a dedicated like ROM emulator machine, I would definitely
probably go with like the open Pandora or the new version of that. I figured it's called like
because then I have a whole Linux computer and then I can use instead of just a little Game Boy thing.
Well, right. I mean, it's kind of rather a waste of the pie. I mean, well, I don't know unless
you're going to take this on the train with you. Well, you don't get your wish to us because
they blow past their goal by $6,000. Oh, I knew that would. I just wish it didn't happen. I don't
know. It's just, and part of me is like this was somebody else's idea. Like Adafruit came up with
this idea like a year ago and put out the plans and everything. And it's just kind of like these
people looked at it and like, oh, we're going to do our own version of that and then try to make
money off of it, which I guess is technically okay. I don't know how Adafruit license their stuff,
but I mean, it's just, I don't know, just didn't want to see them get too rewarded for ripping
somebody off. Although to be fair, both of these are just blatantly ripping off Game Boy. So I guess
I don't have like a good ethical ground to stand on to begin with. Yeah, I'm looking on the crowd
funding the pages there. If they ever acknowledge, hey, this really isn't our idea. We're just
implementing it for you. So you don't have to do it. I will admit there's one design choice
that I like about this. This version of it is that they put the two buttons on the back.
We're on the Adafruit one because of the TFT panel. It had four little buttons underneath the
the screen. So if you wanted to do, if you were like emulating Super Nintendo or something where it had
the, I guess the trigger buttons or whatever the little bumper buttons on the edge, you'd have to
reach up to the screen to hit them. At least if they were on the back, they would be a little easier.
But that would be something that you could very easily mod and do with the other one.
Well, that's one thing that I'm going to do with my RPI-2. I was looking at things like
all those noobs, and then there's the other one. I'll think that's why I had them on RPI,
where you could boot into multiple OSs on the same SD card, but I found one the other day.
I think I'm going to use that. You boot it, you boot it into a regular Linux. I think it may be
raspy or whatever, but you can seamlessly move into Cody or one of the game emulators and go back out.
You have all the same functionality without having to reboot the box. I would have took that up to
the TFT and I've already got a USB controller that I bought a while back. It's a bit a lot more
comfortable to hold and then to hold this on brick in your hand and squint it to what, two inch
free. Yeah, we have one of the original model A. It was the first Raspberry Pi. I don't know if
that was model A or model A came later. I couldn't ever keep track. I set it up for my wife with
Retro Pi. Basically, because she loves old games, so she'll sit there and play on the Retro Pi,
but then I have a little SD card holder that I found in it that has four or five SD cards and we'll
just swap them out. If we were to use Cody, we would just throw in the Cody card and reboot it,
and I made a little case for it to where we could get to the SD card slot really easy. It's worked
out. It would be nice to be able to do it without rebooting, but to be honest, it takes two
seconds to reboot anyways. It's not that big of a deal for me. Just saying when I got dropped
Berry Boot is the other multiple operating systems on a single SD card system. I guess it's not
really an operating system, but a launcher. I guess you might call it that it's comparable to
new's. The main difference, I think, is that I still have my SD card, so I have a little
written, so someday for HPR, I'm going to try to write a comprehensive comparison between
new's and Berry Boot. That would be cool. I kind of fell off the Raspberry Pi Wagon. I got on
early and then just sort of dropped out, so I'm behind. I know that you guys were talking about it
last night, that the podcast, Linux, Linux, Linux, that they have one of the guys that started like
Raspberry Pi podcasts, so I might check that out too. I bookmarked that, but I did realize that
was what was doing it. Cool. I believe it is. I could be completely wrong, but I've heard a
couple of people talk about it. I think Dora was talking about it on the links for the rest of us,
and then last night, I've heard a couple of people mention it, and I think it's related to that
podcast. Of course, I could be completely wrong. Well, gentlemen, I think I'm going to retire
if that's all right with you. Thank you for everything tonight, and I'll take you in a couple weeks,
perhaps with our wandering Aussie back home.
Right, man. Have a good one. Jan, anybody hear me? Because I'm not here and anybody.
Yeah, we're still here. Well, I am. NetMiner just took off.
Yeah, I'm maybe getting a little late for him. Still with us, TJ?
Mm-hmm. Okay. Well, how about we pick another topic?
What about Stephen Hawking's sweet new open source gear?
Oh, yeah, that is a good one, because he's put it all out, like you said, open source.
If this is complete as I think it is, then this will be a huge boon to like the open source
accessibility people, because if all the components are there, and I haven't looked at it,
because frankly, I haven't had the time to. It could solve a lot of problems that are
stumbling blocks, just that we just don't have access to.
Well, I saw the movie. It looks like he's doing everything with maybe a couple of
signatures on one hand and the thumb on the other.
I may be making this up, but I thought at this point, he only had control of his head,
and so he was doing it all with a head battle, but maybe I'm wrong.
Well, like I said, the movie stopped with the publishing news last week, or his big book,
or whatever, so yeah, it's possible. Because I'd never really even had that much
control over the rest of his body, so you may be right.
I also love the fact that he gets all this like really nice decked out new software,
and he still uses the old voice, because that has become Stephen Hawking's voice.
That's what's recognizable. So it's still the old terrible voice,
or reproducing reproduction that it was, but it's all this new back end that makes it go faster,
which I think is hilarious. Yeah, I guess they adapted Swift key,
so it does predictor predictions, so he has to type 20% fewer characters, and by type,
like I said, I don't know if that means he's using his hands at all, or like you said,
if he's using one of those targeting systems that knows what he's looking at.
And that's one of the parts of it that I hope is actually open source.
I have a sneaking suspicion that that's probably not part of it, since it came from a proprietary
company. If it is good on them, because that is something good, at least in my experience,
open source has lacked as a good prediction for that sort of thing.
Well, it says, quote from NARICLE, different functions could be enabled by touch,
iBlinks, eyebrow movements, or other user input, so it doesn't talk anything about one of those
site targeting systems. But I'm just like big picture looking at this and thinking,
man, if they could integrate part of this into sonar, that would, especially because sonar
already has eye tracking, that would be amazing, to where you could literally get a commodity
off the shelf tablet of some sort that was x86 base, like some of the older tablets, or even
a computer that you just hacked together to be a touchscreen, and put that on a wheelchair,
and you're replacing a piece of equipment that costs, you know, $15 to $20,000, I mean,
you could do it for a couple hundred dollars, that's amazing. Right, well, I, you know,
when they show in the movie that first hacked together system they had, and that was what
was supposed to be their early 80s, so it was amazing, they could have done it back there.
Yeah, once again, we're dealing with companies who can make equipment and then jack it up to all
sorts of outrageous prices, because they know their subsidies that will pay for it, so
that's one of the reasons why, in my experience, trying to push any open alternative has been
a ridiculously hard battle. And he probably, what he'd been using to, until now, was something of
very similar to what he started out with, and the quote is, my system was over 20 years old,
and he's finding it, and I was finding it difficult to communicate effectively. He says,
his new system is life changing, and he'll hopefully serve me for the next 20 years.
And the nice thing about that is, you know, probably it was 20 years old, because the company
made the technology one around anymore, and it wasn't updating, you know, now if this system
can, you know, update it constantly, and add more functions.
Yeah, but at the same time, I can imagine, especially if this was your mode of communication,
that you would want it to stay as similar as possible, because I'm thinking about
their musicians who use like computers from the early 90s, because that's like their favorite
instrument, you know, and it's what they're used to, they don't want to learn anything due,
because it works, and I could imagine if that was the way you communicated, you would want the
increased performance, but you wouldn't want it to change as far as interface, at least not
a lot, because that would be a huge learning curve, I would think.
And we should give it credit to Intel, I guess it was developed by Intel, and they've opened
source it. Probably not the only time I will thank Intel publicly, is right now.
It's called AKAP, it's system context, over the same article, there's some interesting things
that I'd like to pursue later, there's a Japanese town, or it's done street view at the level of a
hat. It sounds remarkably Japanese of them. I already opened the one on the Millennium Falcon
Quadracoptor, because I look at the one that they are going to be selling in Walmart, and it's like
$90. Another hobby I would love to get into, but don't have time, quads.
So just as a follow-up to what we were just talking about, I'm going to go with this AKAP,
I found the GitHub for it, it is PC only, and that is stupid, so I retract my thank you to Intel,
until they give me an electronic sport. Oh, it's open source, but only one is on Windows.
It'll run on Windows 10 though, but what the hell is the point of making it open source?
Oh, Intel, you low me. This is my favorite part. AKAP doesn't include Professor Steven Hawking's
voice. It supports Microsoft's speech API, and I'm sure that that is not in any way open source.
Oh, and the day I saw a video for the DB8 toy, that's the new droid that's a hat on top of the
round ball roll and rolling around from the fourth portion to Lincoln. The new Star Wars movie,
you know, that's that silly-looking droid that everybody's like couldn't possibly work
from the first few seconds of the video. Well, they've actually got a remote control
toy that you can control with your smartphone that does just that. Yeah, it's just a
sphero with a hat. I've had a sphero forever. It's fun, it's cool, but they just put a hat on it,
and now it's all Star Wars-y. I don't know. I think it's like most of the things I've seen
about the new Star Wars movie just makes me roll my eyes and what to pretend is not happening.
Yeah, it is JJA. It can't be as bad as the first three episodes. That just wouldn't be possible.
Once again, bringing the audiobook club to this show, it is possible. Did you not see
into darkness in the horrible travesty of a movie that was? Well, I don't know. I think I
I did go nine and go out and see if I rented it. I still, I would say it's probably better than the
one, but no, I never forgive JJA for destroying Star Trek. Oh, on that topic, is anybody
watch Star Trek renegades yet? Yes, I have, and I wish I hadn't. Okay, you know, that's another one.
I thought that was better than at least any JJA Abrams stuff. Oh, hell, yeah. It was way better
than the JJA Abrams stuff, but it was still atrocious. I don't know. It was, I don't understand
where, like, how it takes place and where it takes place and things. It just seems like they've
kind of gone off the rails and spun it off in the kind of its own alternate universe. It's
odd. I don't know, because there are things in it that shouldn't me being the uber nerd that I am.
Things don't match up with the timeline, though it should be. Well, certainly not the Utopia
universe of the original series. I mean, essentially, they're, they're finding excuse to do,
to get on CBS and for, for reasons they couldn't get to get it picked up that way.
I don't know. It also suffers from the recent trend of everything has to be related to CON somehow.
Like, we have to get some reference to CON in everything. And I'm just like,
CON was needed to make a good of a villain. He was in a good movie, but himself was not a good villain.
Now, see, that's where we disagree again. I always like CON at least in the movie. I don't,
you know, if I was going to go back to any of the episodes to do, you know, to use it as basis
for the movie, I'm not sure space seed is the first one that would come to mind, but let's face it,
I guess they ripped off the original series for the first two minutes. So,
well, and I think that's why CON works and Star Trek 2 is because he has a reason to hate Kirk,
like specifically just Kirk. And so it makes it more about those two against each other. And if
you take away that motivation, you get into darkness. Like, it's just I'm angry about my people,
which is cool for an episode. The other thing that got me about Renegades was the production
quality. Like, they would have a scene with the ships that looked like it was done by, you know,
what, or ILM. I mean, it was gorgeous. And then they would do another scene that was like
something on a planet. And it looked like a kindergarten or did it just didn't match up.
Well, you know, go back to Kirk to the original sets though. They've got, they've got the
technology to do it to do a lot better. I am excited for X and R, though. I can't wait for that
to come out. Oh, yeah, we'll see that. Just a little small thing that it was awesome.
I was worried that the Chinese has rounded up Peter here a couple of weeks ago,
because they arrested 15,000 people for internet crimes. I guess when Peter gets back,
we'll have to tell him we won't turn him for the ubiquity if he gives us kind of the money.
Well, we've been on for about two hours. So, uh, somebody want to pick one last topic.
Send here going through and trying to find something real quick.
Yeah, we're not compiling the receivers for three for six weeks worth of links. There wasn't much
really great in there. Did you talk about space letters yet? No, I haven't. Let's talk about that.
People ate lettuce in space. It was awesome. That was more, I was thinking of Peter, but, uh,
he wasn't here, so he gets to miss out. So, I guess on the International Space Station,
for the first time, they're actually hydroponically growing their own food, which is, of course,
wobbly the basis for a sci-fi movie that comes to life and kills them.
That would be fun. No, I mean, it's super cool, because you combine this with the fact that they
are able to like 3D fabricate in space, and we're getting closer and closer and closer to some
form of sustainability, which would be nice to have. Now, if they get radiation poisoning from
their lettuce, it'd be seen, which might happen. So, you know, the knowledge may vary.
Well, you'd have to have something along the spaceflight mission, like the Mars,
you know, because every bit of that, that's sustainable, and you could produce your own,
that's, uh, that's, uh, payload that you can, uh, you don't have to carry. You don't have to carry
two years of food all the way out of that. We haven't by any chance read the book The Martian
have you? No, that's one I haven't read. Okay, I don't usually recommend non creative comments
things, but that is a book you need to read. It's so good. Um, then I'm making a movie out of it,
but it's, it's basically proved to me that if I'm ever stranded in space, grow potatoes,
potatoes are the way to go. Well, unless you get to potato famine. The space potato famine?
Yeah, you probably wanted to first, first of all, a little bit, you know, get in great
veg, where you get tired of the problem with, uh, really quick, and I don't know if you'd want to
fry french fries in space, but, uh, yeah, there's a lot of food value there in the potato. Yeah, deep
fat frying in space sounds problematic at best. You can take along some chickens, so you'd have
eggs. That'll be the next thing. Do animal husbandry in space? I think we probably have to have
a little more than a couple of 10 cans we've strung together in call space station for that to be
the viable option. Says here, the astronauts must first clean leafy greens with citric acid
based food sanitizing wipes. Yeah, you wouldn't think there would be nearly as much bacteria there,
so it would be just out, you know, grown it in a field. Well, I mean, I think that would be part
of the problem with growing it is you don't have the bacteria, and like it's hard to keep that
going in space because you don't have all the ingredients you have here, so I wonder why they have to,
I mean, they're washing it, which is nice, but I wonder why. And it also says, which is scary,
only half of those vegetables will be eaten, and the remainder will package and frozen for return
to earth. So that that's what's going to happen. The space, the space lettuce isn't going to kill
the astronaut. It's going to come back to earth and kill us all. I think in this case, if I was
an astronaut in the space station, I might be a mediterion that week, just, that's all right, you
get the space lettuce. I'm gonna sit back here and just watch. Well, I guess they've already
taken it and brought it back to earth before they let them eat it at all. It was in 2014, they didn't
experiment in 33 days of return at the earth. I don't know, space lettuce is tricky. I'm still not,
I'm still not cool with this. I mean, I can imagine, like, and I've heard astronauts say that
like food is like the worst part of being in space because it's like all, you know, pre-packaged crap,
it would probably be a nice change of pace to be able to eat something fresh. So I guess if we
can prove it safe, I'm okay, but I'm sure I would want something more than lettuce, maybe a
couple different kinds of lettuce, maybe, you know, a vegetable or two to go with that, maybe some corn,
maybe green beans or something. Well, you know, if you ever seen one of those World War II
submarine movies, and that was one of the things that, you know, all the fresh, fresh stuff they
ran out of the first week, and everything else was hand, and you know, I come back, they wouldn't
want meat because they had meat. That would be preserved, but you know, they weren't salad,
there'd be potatoes, fruit, and all that kind of stuff. So he hadn't seen it six weeks.
Well, I mean, just, you know, spitballing, how much of like the problems that astronauts have when
they come back, we always attributed to like microgravity, what if it's like we just don't eat right in
space, you know, maybe a salad in room once in a while might help them out a little bit.
Right, but, you know, they do spend a lot of time on those days exercising,
they don't have room in that thing to have stuff with those exercise machines that don't rely on
gravity, but they do use. You know, those stations in the model that was about like the photos,
they've got some pretty good illustrators who don't know what those are doing, about
keeping here enjoying them. Yeah, that looks like a pretty substantial garden. If they could pull
that off, that would be nice. Hell, I'd like to have that garden at my house. Yeah, I think
little cheaper to do probably at your house. Yeah, I'm sure, definitely, to try to, I don't know,
seeds probably don't weigh that much, but dirt would be the most costly thing. But if you're doing
like hydroponics, you don't have to carry dirt, you just get it water. Well, yes, it's, it's,
it's something like they have actual dirt, like the algae or something like that. It covers them
like the seeds are implanted into this map that has what they, you know, what they need and then
rest is delivered hydroponically. As such, you put the, you put the map with train, you get it wet
and the seeds start growing. So I think this is an excuse for us to petition to get tracing
holds up to the space station with some fish and set them up from aquaponics. Well, see, that's
the problem again, and we get the water to stay in the tanks. You have to see all the tags.
I don't know, I think that guy could figure out a way. Oh, yeah, if anybody could.
Then when he comes back, he has space fish, which is even cooler.
Don't either be space fish or weird mishapen monsters.
Either way, I'm remarkably cool with that. Well, the water would probably be more pure up there.
I said, I think the radiation would be the factor. I doubt you'd have to worry about mercury.
I bet fish lose it in space with no like gravity. Like I wonder how they react.
Oh, yeah, they wouldn't know what a swim would be. That'd be cool. It was a geoclerian.
You see fish swim by upside down. Now, tags, you think those guys are going to get to
kneel for the game boy car. Have you seen the steam boy?
Yeah, it's something about it, but isn't steam kind of involved in that like in some way?
Well, I think the boy car could do the one that gets in trouble.
Oh, there's no way they're going to call it that. Absolutely no way that it's going to be called that.
I'm looking at a picture on the LCD. It's those steam boys.
If not from the Tendo from the anime, like whoever owns the anime steam boy,
probably would get kind of pissed about it. I guess it's officially called the Smok Zero.
It's got an AMD G series software on chip. It's not software on chip, but it's going to
be a very cheap step-ego Jaguar based CPU, CDN based GPU. They've walked around one gigahertz
and moved GPU to 300 megahertz. It doesn't seem like there's going to be powerful.
Let's do each one. Yes, it's going to have like a five on screen, four giga-round,
32 giga storage, standable with the SD, five and 720p touchscreen. Okay, let's take some time
HD and only output Wi-Fi in YouTube. Yeah, I'm sure this is just developed to do the
like in-home streaming. So you have your like actual gaming reg upstairs and you're just streaming
it down, which a Raspberry Pi can handle that. So this is kind of overkill I think.
Yeah, the gamepad part of it looks a lot like the steam controller. I don't know, they talk about
this like it's an independent unit that you can put in your pocket and take pictures of battery
on the last two guys. They're not talking about it like it's a quiet unit for steambox or PC.
Then I don't see any way this award. Really don't. Unless the GPU's a lot heavier than I'm thinking
it is, that's going to be a hard sell because the people you want to sell that to are hardcore gamers
and they're not going to accept it not being good. So tough to them, I guess. If they can do it
school, but I don't have faith that they can. Looks like it'll be about $330, which is not as
expensive as I would have thought of it. I guess what I got about. So I guess I will catch you guys
at some later date. Okay, well it's probably a good time to wrap it up. Folks, you've been listening
to TIT Radio 1.01 exclusively for Packer Public Radio and with me still on the line, I'm 51th
year-host and you've hurt tonight. You've hurt Taj. That's good, everybody.
And TJ. I'll see you when I see you. And it was also add on the line, hey,
Wisher and thanks for recording horse, hey, Wisher. And I guess I've enjoyed doing these TIT
radios and I hope you can make it to the national new returns. So that's it for this evening
and we catch you folks later. Peace out. Why did I say that? I've never seen anything like
peace out. It was cool to just roll it in. So before I run off, 50, did you decide whether you're
coming to Ola or not? I booked a room. I need to really make it sit down this weekend and book a
flight to go with it. So Father Fitch and I may put the rooms together. In other words, he's got
prison when he gets there. I think he only booked for a couple nights and I booked for three.
Yeah, I was gonna sit down this weekend and try to book a room and stuff but I'm close enough
I can drive. So that's that's the nice thing. I just got to get a room for the the overnight there.
Well, if I can make it, it'll be awesome. If not, I expect a full report.
Well, I'm pretty sure it seems like I'm going 50s going. Father Fitch is going. K-Wisher's
going at I believe. I don't know who else. I've heard a couple other people are going. I'm sure
there will be some reporting back from the scene of the grind. Is door going this time? I haven't
listened to links for the rest. I was for like a month or so. I think he mentioned it but I don't
know if he actually said if he was going or not. It would be cool if he was going. I found out that
he listened to my podcast and I got a little Star Trek. I was like, even though it's door. I was just
like, oh wow, somebody who has a successful podcast, listen to that. Well, he made a point of
mentioning it. He wasn't going. So I kind of got the impression that he'd already planned to.
So I haven't heard. And I haven't heard of any of the tilts guys say they're going.
Well, I haven't heard Dan said he can't go this year. I thought Joel said he was going.
He's practically like there.
Well, but see, that's why we like you, Pekwell. Because I treat everyone pretty much the same.
It all goes through the, I don't really care about her. We say you treat everyone the same.
You need shitty, right? Exactly. Excellent. And that's why I get along with pretty much everyone
in our cast plan at life. No doubt. How's the thing about that the other day? And I come to the
realization that for the most part, we were just one giant anti-social group.
Were the anti-social social group? And pretty much seems legit.
Well, let's face where a bunch of people have probably spent more time talking to our friends
in online than in people in real life. Most people would probably call that at our social.
But I like to tell people is I'm not anti-social. I'm mis-thropic. Get it right.
Oh, you had outside of the third grade reading level. You lost a bunch of people.
Well, with some of the people I hang out with, yeah, you're right. I mean, you're from Indiana. So,
like a reading is not the best in the state. I don't know if you know that.
I believe at least it used to be. Richmond High School was like one of the worst high schools in
Indiana as far as graduation rates. Awesome. But we do have, you know, such distinguished alumni as
Jim Jones. Wow. That's that's awesome. Do you guys have like a plaque or something?
That'd be even cooler. No, we should though. That would be hilarious. Actually, if I get rich,
I'm going to do that. I'm going to go, oh, yeah, we really need to, you know, have a plaque that has
some important people on it. And just right at the top of like Jim Jones or Reverend Jim Jones.
I would so go to that school and take a picture of that.
Actually, if you look up the Wikipedia article on him, it actually says where he graduated
high school. And if you actually go to the high school Wikipedia page, it'll tell you that him
and I do the played football named what was his name. Vegas Ferguson. Those are really kind of
the only people I know at the top of my head. Vegas Ferguson is like the coolest name I've heard
all day. That's like a, that's a bad ass name. It sounds like someone that should be like,
like a cool like 70s detective. Sam, imagine like this big dude would like,
chains just wrapped around his fists. He'd just fuck somebody up.
It's funny to say that because he's actually like one of the nicest people. Well, that's
cool, but I mean, I think it's wasted potential. He used to let me ditch all the time because he
ended up working at the school. All right, though, for real. I gotta go to bed.
It's been fun hanging out guys. I'll catch you guys later. I'll see you later, fruity.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonomicum computer club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under
creative comments, attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
