Episode: 1263
Title: HPR1263: 3G Tunnels (Sshuttle)
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1263/hpr1263.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 22:37:59

---

Hello, this is Dan Waipil. And this is Marshall. You got another name besides Marshall
now, the online name. Well, it's a bug, it's a pronounce. I think most people refer
to it as Timmy. Oh, I always said Tim, Timmy. I do two teas. Yeah, this is my truth, tell
me yours. Right, right. He said it was a, it was from a song, but I didn't know the song
when we, when we first met. So I guessed it. Well, this, this be more first HP or? Now, who
did one that was like really short? Was that your brother? Yeah, that was Andrew. Yeah, that
was Clevy. Yeah, it was, I talked to him after and he said, like, Ken Fallon just appeared
in front of him with a microphone in his face. And it's just a start talking. Yeah, we're
out of camp. And Ken was having some issues with his wife. And he's like, he was hog
wear failure in the end. His wife, I wasn't working. So Andrew, just plug your Android in
and use its wife. Right. Ken goes, that's brilliant. You got to do an HP or something. So
it happened right then. He got mugged with a microphone. I made a, like a joking reference
to that, a Northeast Linux first, me and Pokey were going to go around. And I said, we're
going to do it. Ken Fallon style. And I was kind of referring to you guys saying after
our camp that, you know, you just be standing there and all of a sudden, boom, there's a microphone.
So that's where I got that from. Coma, Kasi interviews. Yeah. Yeah. So why are you
cutting it around with a tool or? Oh, sounds good. Good. That's what this is. This came
about because you made a, you made the mistake of sending me an audio clip and I said, aha,
you do have a microphone. So now we have to do a, you know, we have to do an HP work.
Yeah. Well, I've been, I've actually recorded two and been them. Oh, you're one of those.
That's my friend. He's got one. It's somewhere. He won't put it out. I've done two. One with
the 3G set up prior to the one I've got, which was running through the EPC. And
one I recorded on shuttle, but I've been that as well. I think that's one of the topics we
were going to talk about tonight. Yeah. Yeah. That's quite an interesting move. Yeah. First
of all, the 3G thing, because this is interesting. You're down in Cornwall and you've made jokes,
or we've, we've joked a bit about this that they just ran one cat five down and you'll
get to share it. Yeah. That's about the extent of it. Yeah. So you guys are all on 3G,
huh? Yeah. I was on landline broadband till about six months ago. Two reasons to turn
that off. The first one was they're going to start charging me for it. It was bundled
in my phone before. Oh, I see. And in the village I am in, it's the best speed we can get
is two meg. That is it. A lot of a lot of the villages on half of Meg. So I started playing
with the with the 3G. It's a lot faster. I usually get around between four and eight meg,
depending on the weather, the phone signal. Yeah. We did a little test mumble earlier just to see
how it worked. And yeah, I don't there's nothing. There's no packet strapping or anything. Okay.
No, it's been, I've been amazed. It's been rock solid. The only problem I've had is the phone
it's running through is my spare end 900. And I put the power kernel, which isn't the standard
kernel on it. And about once a fortnight, the phone will reboot itself. But other than that,
you just forget about it. Turn it over 10 minutes. It must be nice just for mobility, just like
leaving the house. Yeah, I don't because my wife uses it with a tablet and everything. So it's
it is the landline replacement. It stays here. And it's not cost prohibitive. I mean, over here,
it would be like 90 bucks a month for one gig. Yeah. That's expensive. Yeah, you have to just
as far as I know, you have to just go get a cell phone plan and you can opt to get a phone with
tethering or you can opt to get like a little USB dongle type thing. Yeah, but it's a full cell
phone plan. Hell, I mean, you get the dongles here. I think seven gig is about 30 quid, 30 pounds.
We're just getting robbed over here. Yeah. The way I'm doing, I think, is maybe bending the
terms and conditions of the service of it. But it's been six months. They haven't cut me off,
so we'll carry on. Yeah, basically, it's a page. Oh, I'm sorry, go ahead. Yeah, basically,
it's a page you go plan. It's 15 pounds a month for unlimited data. I'm moving to Cornwall.
The SIM cards are a pound, a pound each. If they cut me off, it's basically a quid and another
top up. And that's it. Chuck it in the phone. I use the cubed tethering software on the N900.
Plug that into a router while I'm running open WRT.
And just connect it to configure it to use the USB as the WAN port.
Are you saying that when you go home, you plug your phone into the router and it feeds the whole
house through that one connection? Yeah, it feeds the whole house. It must spare one. It stays at
home. It's just plugged in 24-7. It is literally a landline replacement. Wow, that's awesome.
And it's worked fantastically as better than I ever thought it would.
I want one. Yeah, it's literally plug and play with running it through the EPC.
I can tether on my phone, but then they want another like an extra 20 bucks a month.
And I'm grandfathered in right now to an unlimited plan. And if I go do all this upgrading and
get a new phone, they're going to want to put me on 4G. I'm going to get stuck to one gig a month
which we're sharing three phones right now. We'd go through that in like half a month. So yeah,
it would be expensive for me to try and do this over here. My actual phone,
they call it unlimited data on that, but it's only a gig. And we had a conversation about that,
me and the provider, but they're still calling one gig. That's one thing.
Unlimited. Yeah, gigs can like go through that in a night.
Yeah, I downloaded their Backtrack 5 over a couple of ISOs. Yeah, the other night.
That's got a new name, doesn't it? I don't know.
I have a Backtrack as a new name now. K-Ligs or something like that.
I don't know. I'd look the other night that's still coming up as Backtrack 5 on a search.
Oh, okay. I got something. See, this is where those are sides happen, because I'm actually
looking at my computer. Yeah, I've been having a few issues with a new laptop
doing some pen testing. Okay. And I thought, well, rather than mess around too much,
I'll just run it in a VM, but having a few problems there as well.
Oh, yeah, I'm just looking at my hard drive now. It looks like it's Kaley Linux, K-A-L-I Linux.
It's like a last, last Backtrack I remember was Backtrack 5.
That's one of downloaded Backtrack 4. Yeah, there might be like something new
around there. It's just the name change. Something else to test your unlimited data stream.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, on the laptop, I'm up to just under 11 gigs for the months.
So over 3G so far. Well, that's quite a bit. Yeah.
Yeah, I've downloaded, well, I think I've done nearly 30 gig in one month.
And they're not cutting you off for that, huh? No, all right, cool.
They don't say anything. You shouldn't. No, you don't have to register the
kept cords or anything. You just go into it like a news agent, or a small supermarket,
buy a SIM card for a pound, pay cashier top-ups, and it's completely anonymous apart from
obviously. They all know where the phone is. Yeah, you guys mentioned that last time I was over there,
must have been 2010 oddcamp. And you were saying that I could have if I brought my phone,
I could have got a SIM card and put it in and I would have been all set. Yeah, I just left it
home. I didn't even think that was an option. Yeah, I'm going to Germany next week. I've been looking
but I think it's still cheaper for me to stick on my usual plan.
I just started laughing because I'm thinking back to when we were hanging out in the bar after
oddcamp 2010. And you and your brother go, all right, we'll be back in a minute. I go,
where are you guys off to? And your brother goes, we're off to get some elephant leg.
I say what? Like you guys had to explain to me what the kabab was. Oh, that's just kidding.
Yeah, but you call it an elephant. As soon as he explained it though, I remembered those big
giant things in the windows spinning around. I go, yeah, elephant leg makes sense.
You guys have to remember whenever I'm over there, I'm like, I'm jet lagged. It's like I'm on
cough medicine or something. I feel like half asleep. So you might have to explain to them to me.
And it's always more fun when you come over. Oh, I couldn't make it happen the last few times.
No, no, it's expensive, isn't it? Yeah, but I hear it might change too. It's quite expensive,
like around August they were doing it. Yeah, now Dan mentioned he might be doing it around October.
Yeah, hopefully. I'll have to see. Yeah. So you were mentioned into me earlier. What is the
did this has to do with SSH tunneling? Yes. Yeah, okay, because I was going to explain a few things that
yeah, blah, blah. I was going to mention proxy change and how I SSH, but it sounds like you're
onto something new here that I don't know about. Well, I've always used proxy change while you've
seen, I've shown you more bash or see before. For running a few apps like Hey, buddy, email,
other things back home. Yeah, well, I was just looking through the AOR and I came across
shuttle, which I haven't heard of this. Yeah, I think Kim through through uses as well.
He's been he's been able to chat about it. It's what from the the man page, it's a transparent
proxy based VPN using SSH. So basically it runs everything right back through to home. You
haven't got to worry about you can even put your DNS requests back to your SSH server.
And where are they saying the VPN is running? It's not it's not actually a VPN. It's love.
He calls it a poor man's VPN, but I wouldn't call it poor man's VPN is bloody awesome.
This is like a, but this is like a server client model like you run a server at home. Yes,
or yeah, or anywhere you've got SSH access to. So I've been tested it with
mostly the SDF one. I haven't tested with it yet. I've got me on SSH server running at work
where the status net server is now. And it just tunnels all the traffic straight there.
So I think I need to look into this. Yeah, because I I SSH tunnel every time I'm out of the house.
Yeah. And I can tell Firefox to use the port, you know, use that port. I can tell Thunderbird to use
that port, but something like hey, buddy, it's not aware of ports. So I would proxy chain it,
which yeah, it's it sounds like this is like an extra step I'm going through where I could set up
this shuttle and uh, well, shuttles. Yeah, shuttles a little bit. Well proxy change can be a pain
in the ass to get working, but um, shuttle does some good how-tos. The best one I found was
on the memo form for the 900. Okay, send your link to that one. Sounds like our first show note entry.
This is the sound of Tim Timmy clicking. Oh, yeah, you put it into the chat. Okay.
That's not going to make for a very good podcasting if I go read through that. No, no, no, no,
that's basically telling you out to set it up on the end of the reference. But I'm still not
clear though how, but when you leave the house, let's say you take your notebook out.
Are you starting, are you starting up some type of client before you start any other
programs or how are you making the tunnel happen? Well, most of the time, the way it just explains it
on the the GitHub page is open a terminal. And um, you just, it's a shuttle,
that's VBR, uh, use a name at host and um, you have to put your password in either you
do password if, because it needs to do the room. I think or run it as route. So do, uh,
ask for your silly password. And then for your SSH password, which seemed a bit messy to me,
and I like SSH keys. So that's that's how I came across the, uh, made my one was looking for a
way to do it with SSH keys. Right. Um, Kim did send me a link to run it on one command line.
Um, with a dashy, you can run a command when it gets on the on the server.
I see. And that was a little bit with the key, but uh, this seat was seemed very tidy. Once you've
said it up, you've got to create a profile in roots.ssh config, um, which is basically just the,
um, profile name, you use a name, the host name, the port, and then your key pass to the key.
And what's that's done is you just type a shuttle, dash or, and then the profile name, zero slash zero,
and then then it kind of creates a tunnel. And now, yeah, you'll see it like every port locally
will be forced through that. Everything will be forced through that. There is, you can exclude
things. If you want to, I don't see why you would, you would want to, unless it's for speed,
because you'll be limited to your upload speed on the other side, which I thought sounds nice.
Started downloading and I say another night, and why is it so slow?
Oh, the finally really, oh, yeah, come connected the shuttle, you're tunneling through everything.
Yeah. So just to finish it off, I then wrote a dot desktop file, and put the like on in me,
try. So now just click on my column, it pops on for next term, and you can see if it connects.
Oh, nice. So it seems to work brilliantly. Yeah, I'll be looking into this. I have been using
proxy chains, but then like sometimes I'm lazy or I forget, or a lot of times at the log, it just
gets so crazy with everybody talking, you know, I forget to proxy like a hey buddy or something like
that. Yeah. And then this would be nice when you get there, turn it on, turn on shuttle, and just,
you don't have to worry about it again. Yeah, there's been working really well.
Nice. You usually just test it with going to ifconfig.me, just to check your IP address,
that's changed. So I just got a static when it works, so I know if I'm connected.
So speaking of hey buddy, another thing that you've been getting into lately, you've been
packaging everything from for Jezero up into the the a you are, right? Yeah, well, nearly everything.
Um, I've yet to look into. Well, he keeps starting a new project every month. Yeah, I've really
got to look at Blather, the new one. He's like, and uh, hey buddy, what's the one, uh, what's the one
that the music one? Mutton show. Yeah, mutton chop. Yeah, use that all the time. That's just nice little
uh, app I wrote a little um, pipe menu for open box. Right. I now just right click on the desktop
and play the music. So is this uh, this is something I've never ever looked into, is it,
is it tough to package this stuff up? No, it's um, yeah, you are, it makes it really easy.
They're basically just follow. It's a word I'm looking for. Don't worry. This all comes out in,
in the edit magic. Just follow a template. Um, once you've done one or two, they become really easy
just to whip them up. The harder ones are them when he runs them straight, when I have to build
them straight from bizarre or from get help. Um, it's just so cool when I look in the, look in the air
you are and I see like your name or I think I've seen through up there with one of them. It's it's
like, wow, you guys are, you guys are a big time. Ah, it's just where I give you back something
and it's um, yeah, something small, but it helps. Yeah, that's, that's, that's the Linux way.
It's always surprising when you go to where you are and there's something that's not there.
Oh, I've got a wider package built for that one. Um, to get it up there. So, uh, yeah, I've got
to look at, uh, blather. This is the next one, Jezre's new, new project. Yeah, sounds like, uh,
John Culp's getting into that a lot too. Oh, the video you posted, was it wonderful.
I'll have to look at that. They within just saying the commands and control is computing.
Uh, uh, Jezre's recent HPR, I guess he was recording the HPR and his blather thing was picking up
his voice and started saying stuff out of him. I don't know if you heard that. Yeah, yeah, I did.
And then somebody joke and identically the other day, set up two computers and have them talk to
each other and just see what happens. Oh, no. So you get the bots from, uh,
identica. Yeah, just, just start talking to each other, right? Right.
Yeah, the packaging for arch Linux, I mean, what else to say is, um, something I enjoy doing.
Right. Nice. What hardware are you running on tonight?
This is still the EPC. I set up mumble on this years ago and I just don't touch it. This is still,
like, uh, crunch bang statler alpha. And I've just been limping, limping it up, like since from 2009.
My, uh, my, my EPC and my desktop, I leave devian based because I don't want to mess with them.
Like I do a lot of, uh, I do all the banking and stuff on the desktop. So when I sit down
here to check, I don't want to, you know, tweak and update stuff. But my laptop and my VPS have
been arched. That's, that's, those are my toys. Yeah, everything I've got arch now. Um, to be honest,
arch is the updates have been like really stable. I mean, as long as you pay attention to what
they're telling you to do, do this now, do this now, do this now. There's not much breakage these days.
No, no, no, I've, I've had very few problems. Um, yeah, a lot of people think it's going to break
every time you update it. But well, that's, that's happened to me at least once in the past.
Especially, uh, especially if they, they roll something out and you don't do that update and then
they roll something out the next time you've probably missed a transition, transition package
in the last one. Yeah. And you can, you can get into a little trouble there. Yeah. No, I,
I bought an i5 for, for what was going to be for myself, um, with a new real tech carton
and it's running mint for my quarry manager at the moment. And the drivers aren't there for it,
but I just know I could get it working in order. Yeah. Let's do it. Yeah, we, we run in half of,
half of work now. I was running Linux. Nice. Just the accounting side that's, uh,
running Windows still. Unfortunately, I can't, can't play it through wine or have you tried?
No, I'm, uh, I'm fighting to really. Um, oh, that's true. Yeah. It's, uh, sage accounts.
Sorry, tax, man. Yeah. All the files went to dev, no, and I put it on an onward.
I can't pay you this week. Uh, I'll watch up date broke with the system.
Yes. Oh, your employees are just wondering about the arch up dates, I see. Yeah. But the sales team,
well, sales sales team run on mint. They prefer XFC. Actually, um, quarry managers using cinema,
the cinnamon. Yeah, I, I, I used the XFC one for a while and then I started messing around with
cinema minutes. It's grown, Ami. Yeah. Bad. I've just, I'm running, um, raise a key.
I see. With open box still as a window manager. I don't think I can give open box.
Open boxes. That's my crunch bang ee, but let's see on my laptop, I've been running, uh,
known three. I got used to it. Yeah. After, after much tweaking and dark themes and
it, it looks really nice. I complained and I complained and I complained about the hot corner.
And now I find I'm in other systems going up to try and hit it. So it is useful and you do get used to it.
Yes.
Okay. That's the pause. That means that was topic. What three?
You should hear raw edits. This is what it sounds like. I look at audacity to say, yeah,
audacity is still recording. Yeah. Mine, mine, mine always scares me. It says 22 minutes
disk space remaining, but sometimes it'll say 20 hours. Sometimes it'll say 16 minutes.
I never know. I don't see any of that. Uh, at the, at the bottom, it says disk space.
272 hours. Oh, yeah, but I'm on a 16 gig e. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I've walked for myself. I bought
a think pad. I'm on seven think pad, which is boy, you get more hardware. I always see it.
Yeah. The last one you got from China, I think, was it i5? Yeah, that was going to be for myself,
but um, I say the quarry manager and quarry manager ended up with it because, um,
his Dell died. Oh, you keep saying quarry manager and I'm thinking that's a program.
Oh, no. You mean the manager of the quarry? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It works for me.
Oh, yeah, yeah. Um, yeah, we managed to get recoveries files and, uh, you can tell him sometimes,
I thought he was quarry manager 3.0 or something.
So you manage to rip all his files off of it and, um, use it, we gave him that i5. I, I,
I did stalled our China and, uh, just about got it up and run in the way I liked it and then
I gave it away. I was using, I was using an old Acer, uh, Pentium M with a 1.4 processor.
That's still got it. It still works. It's, uh, yeah, my last server, before I got the VPS,
it was a Dell D410. Yeah. And that was a Pentium M, but it did the job. Yeah. Yeah. Well,
once there's, um, a mini 10. That's what I'm running. The Samsung mini, is it? No. Samsung,
the tennis Samsung, when that was, well, wife used it and the screen got, um, started flickering
and all sorts of them. That's it. I've got a job for that. So it's now the server.
Yeah, I got this i7 and it's, uh, I love it. Oh, it's really nice. What make us that?
A Lenovo, so think pad. All right. One of the edge ones, not one of the, um, you can beat people
up with ones. It's one of the, yeah, the normal ones. The normal, you got the beat people up
ones and you got the normal ones. So, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But the better ones are like tanks,
aren't they? Well, yeah. I think they're business oriented, you know, built for the road warrior.
Yeah. Is this the one where the, uh, the, the top kind of can flip around and go down?
No, tablet. Oh, it's a 15 inch one screen. It's an E530. It's been really nice. Everything works.
Yeah, I'm keeping my eye on Lenovo's for the next, for my next one. I got a Dell this time and I'm
not, it's, it's already like showing stress, stress cracks in the plastic and I'm not particularly
happy with it. No, I've, well, I've got a Dell desktop, but, uh, that work, but that's an old,
P4, just an old workhorse. Right, right. But that's the only Dell I've got.
So again, you're not, you're not running anything like, uh, I recently got a VPS with Lenovo,
a Lenovo VPS just for fun. You're not running anything like in the cloudy clouds.
No, no, only me own cloudy cloud. Yeah, that's, I haven't put up anything important on it. It's
just, it's status net and it's media goblin and I'm starting to mess around with pump IO.
It seems like I have to get, uh, SSL certs for pump IO, which I'm not, yeah, I gotta look into that.
But, uh, we all got emails the other day that Lenovo has been compromised.
And they're not being very, they're not being very forthcoming with what was compromised or where.
So we're right in the middle of a, I guess, a breaking investigation. So,
Oh, dear. Yeah. I'm glad I don't have anything important up there.
I've been, I've looked a little out and, uh, if I ever went that way, I think I would
seriously look at government them. That doesn't sound so good.
Well, I don't think it's a common occurrence, but, uh, in the last month, I think around March 3,
there was an attempted break-in to go after somebody's bitcoins.
And now just yesterday or, you know, within the last few days, there's been another breach
going after, what Lenovo is saying is they're going after one specific account, but they're,
they're not, you know, giving us geeks all the information we want to hear,
which can, which kind of leads me to believe that maybe it is like a major investigation, like,
you know, the FBI or somebody's in there and, you know, they don't want to leak any information
because it will hurt their case. So this does kind of sound serious.
That's, uh, quite funny, really. Like you say, it's good to have anything important there.
Yeah. Have you been hacking my systems, Tim Timmy?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, look towards Cornwall.
I wouldn't know where to start. Oh, that's really. You got my rip password.
No, that's so far above my head. It's, uh, it amazes me.
Yeah. I, I joke around a lot that, you know, I have backtrack and ha ha, you know,
it's kind of like a little joke. Yeah, I wouldn't really know how to use it effectively. It's just,
I mess around with it and I actually scripts for
Wi-Fi and whatever. I've been asked a few times to recover passwords.
And, um, and routers, the one at work that was installed by our ISP.
When I moved the server there, they wanted, I wanted, obviously, open port 80 and the SSH port.
Few other things. And, uh, we don't know what the password is. The router's not ours.
I said, well, it's got your name on the side and, uh, ring this number for support.
Was it, was it a Linux? It wasn't a Linux box?
Um, there's, it's a, uh, Dre Tech router. Oh, I see. Um, because I just, I just recently did a password
research, just, uh, going in with a live CD and sherooting to a system, change the root password.
Yeah. Yeah. If you have physical access, you have everything. That's, yeah. But, um,
some nice chat wrote, uh, little suite of tools called Dratos. And, uh, as long as you're on the
network, you can get the password. There's a, I wrote a little, uh, how to in the outlaws forum.
On that one. Okay. Cool. Just, just for a note for myself for future use. It's, uh, and the
password they used was embarrassing. It's so simple. Was it password? Was it one? No, no,
it's basically the company name. Oh, it's not even backwards. It was just the company name, which
was, uh, it makes me shake my head. Isn't it amazing? Like, there's just, that just keeps coming up
and keeps coming up. It's, it's, it's terrible passwords. When are people going to learn?
It's so simple. I didn't even think of Troy in it when I was, uh, out of two goes the password.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like you don't even try password one, two, three, four anymore.
Who would have used this? Yeah. There it is. Yeah. Speaking of the yellow forums, uh,
they seem to be dwindling. It's sad. Yeah. I feel like an old buddy. Yeah. I'm as guilty as most
for not checking in so much as I walked to. That's where you and I, that's where you and I met.
Like, uh, oh, five, uh, we were the early days, like within the first six or eight months,
it was running. So there's a whole episode 15 or 16 and got into the, um, outlaws.
And we all used to just hang out, a whole bunch of us just used to hang out in there all night,
using it like a chat room. So those were the good old days. Yeah. Brilliant. Get up in the morning
and chat with everyone around me. Yeah. Try and keep up on like, uh, threads that go 80 pages with all
kinds of, uh, gimped images in them. Oh, good old days. But now we have social networks,
which we have so many social networks. It's becoming anti-social, which is kind of strange.
People are getting left with little pockets here and there. Yeah. I've, I've, well,
I haven't got a Google account, so I don't use Google Plus, where most of the world seems to be
these days. Yeah. Don't use Facebook. I've got my, uh, little status net account. Yep. And my,
my own one, my own server. Yeah, that's, that's me as well. I kind of don't trust the Google. I've,
I've seen this happen before. I don't know how to explain it, but, uh, we all,
we all thought Microsoft was a monopoly and it just seems like these, they are building up to be
everything, the internet, basically. Yeah. It's just kind of scary. Yeah. Yeah. I tend not to use
a services. I've just given my wife, um, my upgrade. I'm staying with my N900 and I gave her the,
uh, Samsung S3 I had. And, uh, I just installed, um, the, the free market on there is, uh,
F droid, isn't it? F droid, yeah. Yeah. We didn't set up a Google account, and there's plenty in
there for, for her needs. Hmm. But, uh, no, I, I, I don't use much of the Google services at all.
Yeah. Fellow tinfoil hat you are. Google translate is about the, the only service I really use.
Well, I, I do do with the search. I mean, it is really good search. And yes, I used the translate,
but I don't subscribe to any other, any other services. No. Well, I, I do have one for the phone,
but it's like something I never check. Somehow the phone sinks. Sinks, sinks, uh, addresses and
stuff like that or phone numbers. But I suppose I need that. I would like to find a way to do that
myself. Like sink it to my own server. That would be great. Yeah. Someone must be working on that.
As I'm saying it, I'm wondering. So there's another HPR for someone out there. If you know how to do
that, I want to hear it. All right. So cool, man. Uh, it was nice talking with you. We, we should have
done this years ago. Yeah, but no, yeah, we should have. Yeah. Well, I'm getting a nice pool of
people I can go back and get to record with me. So I'm putting you on the list anytime you like.
Anytime. All right. Cool. You got any, uh, what was that word? Contact information. Yeah, you can
reach me. Oh, probably this on my status net instance is probably the easiest, uh, which is
micro dash timmy dot dy n dns dot org slash micro, which is a bit of an ass end of a URL.
Link will be in the show note. Sure. Yeah. As long as you tape them up. Okay. And I'm, uh,
NY bill at gun monkey net dot net or, you know, I did get my, uh, I did get my
identity going back up and running. So that's, uh, NY bill at status dot gun monkey net dot net.
So cool. Talk to you again, pal. Yeah. Thank you. Cheers. All right. No problem. See you actually.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio. Hacker Public Radio does our, we are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our
shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by yourself. If you ever considered recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by
the digital dot pound and the economical and computer cloud. HBR is funded by the binary
revolution at binref dot com. All binref projects are crowd sponsored by lunar pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunar pages dot com for all your hosting
needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share a life, lead us our lives.
