Episode: 1151
Title: HPR1151: 2012-2013 Hacker Public Radio New Year Show Part 1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1151/hpr1151.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 20:08:03

---

music
playing
I'm having a problem, our VPS went down in the US so I'm having to rebuild the UK1 and
I'm trying to connect bot up to stream hog but every time I do it says current sample
bitrate doesn't support current sample bitrate and the sample bitrate feels doesn't allow
me to go up and down for some reason. Anyone have any ideas? No, we don't have any
org streams at all. The VPS in the US went down. Yes, but are you streaming? How do I stream
to that? When you said earlier, when do you mean earlier? That's what he's talking about
crown of the primary hogs are down. Okay, well I was here four hours ago didn't see it.
Poké, I thought that was Poké. How are you doing? I'm pretty good at how you doing, Ken.
Glad you could make it. Yeah, and fortunately I don't feel to stick around.
I'm not from most of it but I wanted to say happy new year you guys. So yeah, I'll throw the
next item in about the whole thing. You guys have done a tremendous amount of work. It's
very, very impressive. Which is indeed, I'm amazed. I really haven't
understanding of how you were talking about last year how the community just comes together
and puts this thing on. It's fantastic. Ah, there she blows. Could you paste in the
URL to that and I'll redirect it to hackupublicradio.org for slash og and set up their
restreaming script. Grishing is the love bug. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time for coffee
and the selection mode. Classic cool sounds brought to you by CC hits and the bug cast.
Let's just check that again then because I wasn't earlier. Hey Ken,
somebody's got to say happy new year because the clock on the HPR front pages an hour off.
It's new years. So happy new years to everybody who just has on the date line.
Yeah, I don't know if anybody's actually on or listening down there but I had my clock set for
the McPherto station and Antarctica and they are at zero balance right now. So happy new years
if anybody is listening to the stream. Happy new year. Yeah, Kira Bhatti and Samoa are over it too.
I don't know. It's pretty cool though. Happy new year soon but still to early here but it's late
there. Happy new year. How you feeling doing man? Oh, can you hear me okay? Yeah, you sound good.
I can hear the kids laughing too. That's great. Yeah, pretty good. They got one of those
inflatable balls you can hop along on. So they're just jumping on it and screaming how you doing?
They're about one meter away from the microphone, you know, just to make it nice and easy for me.
Hey Ken, did the MP3 stream get moved out of the room on purpose?
So that's it folks. Welcome to heck of a video on this new year's show. As you can see we're
as well organized as always. Actually, we're very well organized all year and unfortunately
we're having some minor technical issues right at the moment. And cool, let's carry on.
We can. Yes. Did the MP3 stream get moved out of the room on purpose?
I didn't move it on purpose so if you can move it back please that will be great.
We hope we moved it back excellent. One second now and we'll I'll just check and see if the other
stream is working. Okay, I want somebody out of the talk while he's checking so let's get
something to listen to. Okay, that's excellent. The MP3 stream was back and the mirror stream is
working. So folks, if you want to join in and you don't want to talk but you do want to listen,
you can go to hackerpublicradio.org forward slash MP3 that's hackerpublicradio.org forward slash
MP3 for the MP3 mirrors. And I don't know if you heard me say it already can but the clock
on the front page is an hour behind. So it's already not at all. It's all working perfectly.
Everything's fine. No, nothing here. The show is now live. It will be live for one more day, 53
minutes and 56 seconds right on. I still need to post a show for today so I reckon I'll
just chop off this. So how are we going to do this? Okay, what's your plan?
What's my plan? I'm not going to be able to stick around the whole time. So I have no intention
to stick around either the whole time but at least I'm recording the first part of it. I hope
you are as well. Yeah, I'm sitting in to record and I hope it stays up when I have to walk away
but it's, you know, I'll try to pop in in and out if I can. But, you know, some personal stuff
just come up and I wanted to be here the whole time. It kind of makes me sad.
Nah, that's all right. Life is a way of happening. So the love book, if you could just connect,
ah, thanks to you man. Keep recording. Good man. I'm recording over here but I'm kind of worried
my laptop is only got a small hard disk so we'll see how it goes. Yes. It'd be three-story
moving again. Anyone, who's moving that back? I moved it back. I don't know why it moved out.
Who's your CMP free stream? That's not Kevin's, is it? Yeah, that's Kevin's one. And the QDNX
stream is, um, is Crayon's Ogun. Yeah, if you, um, if you're just going to listen, Dave,
if you want to talk, actually you could have news when we could say hello for a while.
If you're good, if you're just going to listen, it'll be handy to, um,
go listen, listen on the stream, exactly perfect. Um, yeah, folks, we have a limited number
of connections on the mobile server and even, aside from that, the room gets pretty crowded so
what will do? MHPRNP3 move to open speak by the server. Why is it pushing it down there? Okay.
I don't know why he keeps doing that. I'm trying to see if there's some settings that I can
look at for that. I don't know what that's about. Whoops, I see pushing to talk. That's going to be
killing the, um, the people who are listening on the live stream. If we keep doing that.
I'm currently logged in via team viewer to Kevin's machine and I can't see anything on his
machine that's moving in and out of the room at all. Okay, thanks, Stephen. Yeah, it looks like
the server keeps doing. So for those listening along, there it goes again. There it goes again.
The server for some reason is moving, um, the HPR streamer.
Can I get it back in? You should, you should be an admin. No, I'm not an admin of the whole
server just of the HPR room. It's also the message that you get when you move yourself.
So, okay, you know, not entirely certain what's going on either, but seems very odd.
Anyone want to Google's and see what's going on? Is this what happens sometimes when someone
doesn't, isn't active or mumble for a long time? I wonder if Kevin has left it open for a long time
and it's kind of timing out or something? Yeah, possibly. Have you, are you able to go in there and
type something and unmute it for a second and just give it some activity? Yeah, sure. There it goes again.
You're killing me, bro. You're killing me. Okay. Well, let's see what that is. We're unmuting and, uh,
and, uh, sending a message from the HPR MP3 stream. Let's see, as we're here, let's talk
the fact that I can push the talk work. So the setup as it is at the moment is there's a
mumble server, uh, mumble room hosted by Linux Basics. Guys, thank you very much for that.
And, uh, feeding off of that, we have two people running, I think, uh, both, which is broadcast
using this tool and that pipes it into ice cast server. So the MP3 one is run by Kevin Wischer.
Thank you very much, Kevin. And the org is run by crayon. Thank you very much, crayon. And both
of those then are the master streams for their ice cast servers. Um, really the only thing you need
to do is, um, app get install or yum install ice cast, uh, set the username three passwords,
one for the admin, one for the relay and one for the host. I don't think you actually need to set
a password on the relay server. Then, um, that pipes on through, um, so today you create a mount
share, but it's a fairly basic XML file mount. And then the mount name is, um, uh, streaming for
the MP3 and streaming.org for the org. And, um, then they broadcast using this tool, but tool
is simply set up to, um, pipe in audio from the room into the, uh, you onto somewhere else,
so you give it an IP address port and the password of the ice cast server and it just pipes into
that and then you've got a streaming, um, ice cast server. And then off of that, we have a script,
a PHP script that runs on the hackupublicradio.org for such MP3 and for such org site. And that's
simply just keeps a track of, um, where people are coming from and, um, and then we'll, uh, have a
look at the load of the various different servers and then we'll redistribute the loads then
among the various different, um, uh, web server or streaming mirror servers. So if you actually want
to set up a mirror yourself, it's, uh, relatively straightforward here, um, for hackupublic radio,
you just put in relay. Yeah, and it looks like the MP3, uh, is behaving itself. So, uh, perhaps it
was us, a dude man that is kept falling out. And, um, then the relay just has the, um, server name,
port number and remote mount point of the, um, of the master server and then the local mount point.
And then what we do is based on the number of, uh, uh, the number of listeners that we've seen
go through, um, or that's, uh, are on the server, then we'll, um, send us as a percentage of users.
And, uh, for my information, crayon tells me that he's using dark ice, which is fantastic news,
because as soon as he gets a microphone figured out, he'll be able to come on and tell us, uh,
exactly how he's doing that. Um, so crayon also wrote a, uh, PHP script, which we have on the
two parts. It's a little batch file that runs every minute and it connects to the mirror,
all the mirrors in turn and finds out the near current number of listeners and the maximum
number of listeners and stuff like that. And then, um, the PHP script will simply deviate the, um,
incoming connections out based on that. So all in all, pretty, pretty cool. Um, uh, so I actually
would like to, um, nip off here for a moment, um, for various different reasons. One being that I
need to have a cup of coffee. Two, I need to talk to crayon about getting the org stream working up.
And three is, I need to go to the water closet. Probably more information than anyone needed.
So dude, man, can you, uh, entertain us with talk of cows and, um, the like while I'm gone.
Well, it won't be so much fun if I can't poke you about it, you know, and, uh,
tease you about your dislike. Uh, I wouldn't mind having a quick chat with you online. I hear about
that. That's absolutely fine. Are you, you go for your water closet? I've not heard them call that
for a long time. And you go there. Yeah, we don't want an accident or anything, do we?
Well, uh, I just get a little book and there's something you need a full report when you get back
broken. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Dave. How are you?
Or afternoon or wherever you are in the world. Yeah, I'm good. Thanks, Ken, yourself.
I am great. And, uh, thanks very much for coming on board. And, uh, thanks for the, um,
for organizing the stream with the UK podcast guys. Uh, that wasn't me, actually. I did that themselves.
They're so nice. And, oh, speaking of the mirrors, I'd like to thank Corba too. Bokey, of course,
from the Ubuntu UK podcast and Bert as well, um, who has provided, uh, at this point,
just some mirrors. And, uh, I think Dan and who else, uh, Delwin is providing some additional
mirrors as well, done from the Linux link texture. So again, thanks to everybody for, uh,
for doing that. We really do appreciate it. Did you get the details I didn't through, Ken?
Uh, no. Oh, definitely send them. One sec. I did. I'll take the promise I did.
Oh, you have another one. Cool. Then, no, just one. Just one. But you're streaming the
Alchstream, right? Yes. Yeah. Yeah. On, um, yeah, the Alchstream, I thought that would be a bit more,
um, friendly. Excellent. I'll, uh, I'll use that now in a minute, because we're just going to go and
build a, uh, algorithm or network now. And then we have just a little bit of work to do. Fantastic.
Um, tell me this and tell me no more. What's the max number of streams on that?
Uh, it's set to 100. So hopefully it will cope with that. Super duper. Okay.
Anyone want tea? Coffee? Beer? Uh, yeah. I'll have a coffee. Too early for a bit.
No. I love coffee right now. Can you enjoy a roast? Can I have cream in my one, please? Sure,
no problem. Run out. I don't have any cream. Can you run out to the buyer in there and get us some?
I'll nap out and uh, squeeze some out. Anyway, I just popped on to say good morning. I will be back
later on. So catch you later. Good to hear from you. Thank you. Happy new year.
And to you. I'm going to go ahead and drop out now, too, before I start snoring. Happy new year
and I shall also return at some point. Cool. So which, which countries or time zone is it
a new year already? Because we still have a good 12 hours here in the middle of central Europe.
I had my clock set to, uh, forget the name of the station, but in Antarctica. And it's time was
zero, zero, zero there. So yeah, whatever's right on that side of the date. I'm not so many people
yet, too. I don't know. There could be like a whole village for all I know. Or all city. I don't know.
None of us know. Yeah, they've gone and made date line things very, very confusing. So I know we've
got to get excused to know. No. You can get back. I have to ask him how he's got the music server set
up. Is that was sounding really good? Yeah, he was streaming from his box, I guess, from his machine
directly. Said some jack up or something like that, has he? Or just an audio output into another
computer? Or maybe it was live. Has he got something live and he's living them? I don't know.
What he comes back on, I have to ask him. I want to work on it too. As he said, he wanted to be
here the old 24 hours last day. We are at the right place, aren't we? Yes, sir. This is where it is.
I just wonder if the other people are meeting up somewhere else and there's a much bigger party,
you know. Yeah, they always do that when I come around. Me too.
I don't know. It's not none of any of the list of servers that I've been using the addresses, too.
It's not that early in the US, is it? Yeah. I thought Kevin and some of the other guys would be here
already by now in the morning. It's 6 a.m. Oh, I take that back then. Yeah, that's quite early.
No, it's all right. 6 a.m. It's not bad. If I was going to work today, I'd be out of the door.
I'm trying to get up before I look off here right now. Morning, CT. Good evening, happy new years at
least. Have you got your microphone muted, CT? Yeah, buddy, you're lit up, but we're not near
anything. So I tried a daring thing, dude, man. I'm going to like this. Oh, tell me. What's that?
I recorded. I still have to edit it. I recorded it. I did a show on an introduction to editing
open street, man. Ah, a video one because it sounds like it's a bit more visual. No, that's what's
so daring about it. And it was hard work to describe it all with words, was it?
Well, yeah, I think so. It wasn't so hard to describe it with words. I'm hoping it's easy to
understand as the key to a toe. Yeah, good on you. I look forward to listening to that.
And see if I understand it at all. You might not indicate that you did a bad job. It could
just be me, you know. Yeah, well, there's always that as a interference in the very nature of
communication. No. No more wild interviews at all, Popeye. I mean, I'm okay. No, I had one.
I thought lined up with the guy. Not making it or we wouldn't just wouldn't meet up for something
or probably email them one more time to see if he's still interested. But, um, no, nothing, nothing
planned just yet. No, after interviewing Richard, people kept telling me to interview Linus if I
could or no asked for one, but just I don't know if I'd understand anything that guy would say,
you know, technical, so I wouldn't be a good person for that. I'm trying to think what kind of
questions I would ask him, dude, make any sense. You know, I'm not sure. Maybe if someone got
to give and gave you a whole other questions and you could just put those questions through him,
it might be easier, but I don't know. Well, that's what I did for Richard. I mean, I had a whole
bunch of questions ahead of time that people wanted to ask him, but, you know, at least I understood
the questions and understood the answers. You know, because I can, I can speak that language
all right. I can understand the, you know, the law ended it, but, you know, some of these are
talking about coding, you know, I use those over my head. You're just not cut out for media,
you know, because I thought that was a whole point of media and interviews that they're not supposed
to understand what's been asked and said, you know, they just keep talking and, and, uh,
bobbing their, or baffling their way along, you know. Well, maybe if it was a video podcast,
I could be a talking bobblehead, but no one here to see that happen and I can't bring myself to it.
Good on you. Well, Ken gets back soon, so I can make some coffee.
Yeah, I didn't think he would disappear as soon as he stops. Come back, come back, come back,
I'm listening. Is that really you, Kenner? Is it some script you have set up to say I'm back,
I'm back, I'm listening, every time. I'm back, I'm back, I'm listening. There you have it.
I'm back, I'm back, I'm listening. No, I got some nice coffee here now. I'm ready to rock.
Do you have this tradition to put in curse crunches, little cookies in the Christmas tree?
No, we don't put anything edible in Christmas trees.
I know when, in the old days, they used to string up, um, like popcorn and, or cranberries with
like an eel and thread, but we've never done cranberries and I think we did popcorn once when I was a kid.
Oh, okay, cool. I think I found out what crayons, uh, URL crayons servers are going to be happily busy
doing that. Unfortunately, I never got the upgrade to be able to multitask so that the long periods
of silence, which truncate silence will, uh, get rid of. Hello, crayon. Are you going to just
talking about your dude? Sorry, dude, man, what's that? I was only going to ask Ken what time
parameter he's going to use in his truncate silence so that I can make sure that, um, I leave those
kind of, uh, silences so it messes up his truncate silence and sounds funny. Do you want to hear
you anyway, dude, man? All right, so Ken, I went ahead and bumped you and glad to him, dude, man,
up to admins because I had you as, um, moderators for the server. And I thought, I thought you had
the rights to move people in and out, but you do now for sure. Okay, super. Thanks, Pokey.
Appreciate it. Thanks very much for calling in. By the way, if you need to step out, that's fine.
We'll, we'll take it from here as some say. Put on my DJ boys. Julian, to Hacker Public Radio live
24-7. Crayon, go ahead over. Sorry, are you able to hear me? I am indeed sorry, yes. I understand
you're camping. Uh, yes. How did you know? I don't know. Psychic that way, you know.
Yeah, I'm currently sitting in a tent. Um, the party's raging on outside. Uh, but I'm making
the supreme sacrifice to be sitting here on a computer in a tent. Camping as in the, uh, the body
armor keeps swanning right where you stand. Uh, as in I'm sitting in a tent. That kind of camping.
Huh, I had you figured for the other kind. That's pretty good, man. I spent ages trying to get
this microphone working. Couldn't work out why it wasn't showing up in my audio devices,
and then I realized it was. It's just that also pre-pens. So much hex values that I missed the name
entirely. It was right off the screen. That's pretty funny, dude. It's fantastic. Yeah, so I was there
the whole time, but anyway, so what time is it over there? Uh, it's currently 22 27.
So you're told you have far, far away from you are a little bit of that far away from you. Are you
from the international deadline? Um, if that's UTC, then I think it's 10 hours or something. Yeah,
exactly, but UTC correct me from wrong here now. UTC is exactly midnight or is exactly 12 hours away
from midnight the other side of the world? Correct or not? I don't know. I'm not very internationally
knowledgeable. Well, obviously, we're not either because we just missed the new year by an hour.
So maybe there's going to be 25 hours in this new year or 26 if we're lucky.
Yeah, I saw that in ILC that apparently some people missed out.
Yeah, you know what happened? Ken is, uh, global warming caused the Earth to expand and we had to
add a whole new time zone. I don't get me started on time zones. You think my, dude, man,
you think they're going around about cows? You only hear me starting when I get into time.
Yeah, I cheated. Can I just set my clock to the Antarctic? I just found some place that was
something right past the date line that was in the default configs for the time settings.
Cool. We have some, have you seen that tweet from, uh, Kornomolo and Becky? They have a whole studio set of
nice is pretty good. But it's not in a tent though. No, it's not in a tent. Yes, Krayon, we know you're in a tent.
Well done. Can I just draw attention to the fact that my girlfriend Sarah is also sitting here in
the tent with me as the support so that I'm not missing the party alone. Yeah, everybody outside
just thinking, oh, Krayon and Sarah, I've gone over to the tent. Well, we all know what's going on
there. Well, actually, yeah, my family here as well and they've been coming over and saying,
now I know you're doing something nerdy, but get out here and join the fun and, uh, Sarah suggested
we should shake the tent a little to keep them away. Good news. Are you like mobile or whatever?
Can you walk around and go over to the people and have them say hello? I could.
Why don't you do that, sir? I've got a large family. It would be pretty scary.
Yeah, no bother. No bother. I planned to have the kids on later.
Ken is December 31st. It's freezing out there. He don't want to leave the tent.
Yeah, poor guys. What are you doing camping? That's hardcore. Those Australian guys in middle of winter.
There's frost and snow outside and they're camping.
Krayon, can you say that's not a camping trip?
That's not a camping trip. This is a camping trip.
Oh, wait, that was an English accent, wasn't it? My bad.
You foreigners, you're still in the same to me?
Yeah, I don't think you realize. I don't think you guys fully realize how loud my family is and
how numerous they are. Don't worry about it. Just come up.
Are you Italian? I'm Italian. I go out family.
No, they're actually English. My family is, yeah, they're all English descent.
So were you the governors or were you the prisoners?
Well, my mother's actually English and she moved here. On my father's side,
I think that goes way back to being a prisoner at some point, I believe.
Well, he has the, he looks like one anyway. Oh, Colonel.
All right, it looks like I am mobile. I appear to be mobile.
Hi, Kevin. How's it going? We're just joined by Kevin. Wishers just joined us.
Kevin to bring you up to speed. We're streaming live. Everything's cool.
And Krayon's about to go outside and introduce us to his family.
Kevin is. Kevin is about the 80s. Kevin, go have some coffee.
I'm approaching. I'm approaching the the campsite. Here we go. I'm approaching.
Here we go. All right. All right.
Could everyone, could everyone just just say hello to people on the internet and tell them
happy new year. Happy new year.
Yeah. They're all over people all over the world. Hackers. Hackers.
John's spending you 10, be out there. Specializing with your family.
All right. Happy new year, everyone. Krayon, can you hear that? Happy new year, everyone,
from Holland. Happy New Year. They can't hear you very well. Let's speak as too small.
All right. And then you're from the U.S. U.S.
Well, that was eclectic. Let's do so.
So there you go. Happy new year. Happy new year.
Happy new year. It's my shorts.
All right. So there you go. That was an experience, wasn't it?
Excellent. Excellent. Excellent. I hope you gave your mum a kiss for us.
Oh, my mother actually had to get back earlier today. So she's back at home.
She's not not here.
Oh, I didn't mean to bring it down. Sorry. No, that was great.
Oh, no, no. It's just that she, yeah, she, she, um, she could, she had to, it was just about
car space, really. No one, I couldn't fit her in my car. So, and I wasn't going back home until
tomorrow the next day. And, um, yeah. So she had to bum a ride when she, when she, when she good.
Um, dude, man, or, um, Kevin, could you have a look there at the, um, messages from Del
when we need to, you to nudge down the volume of the MP3 streamer smidgen, please. Super duper.
And CT, thank you very much. CT is just posted into the, um, IRC room. By the way, if you're
listening to this and you want to join along the funders, uh, you can join the mumble settings,
which setting of the hack public radio page, or you can, and you can also join the IRC
chat that's going along on, um, August planet on irc.frino.net tune in after the break and we'll
bring you some fresh sounds from down under with crayon camping. This is where we put in the
audible commercial. Yeah, right. So, uh, or the, uh, the postage one, geez, that thinks everywhere.
So what, what time have you guys got right now? Frame what time's it down there? Uh,
currently it's, uh, oh, sorry, that's not the right voices. Currently it's 2236 here in Australia,
Bokey. Nice. Give us a weather report there at crayon. Everyone's having a wonderful time.
Uh, the sky is black, uh, which is not surprising considering it's nighttime, uh, but the, uh,
temperature is rather reasonable and I was just outside in a t-shirt.
Yes, tough men dance down in, uh, the, the brain, brain alert, rebooting brain. One moment, please.
Yeah, I got about six a.m. here. I know Kevin's in the same time zone.
About the rest of you guys. Time is it for you that we're starting out here.
You're right. There is pokey. There is key to Matachi or somewhere is 137 in the morning.
So we, you're right. We were in our late. So this is going to be a 26 hour podcast.
Are there any listeners from key to Matachi? I'm sure there are many, many.
And why wouldn't there be? I think we should, uh, apologize then to the people of key to
Matachi for not being organized for them. No, uh, pokey was there right on the ball.
Oh, okay. Everybody, um, a happy new year. I was going, what the hell?
That's for an hour, no, grower. But anyways, we'd like to wish a happy new year to one guy,
one guy, boom, and Mrs. Donkin, all the boys down at the tower.
That's as racist as it was now as it was back then when I come out.
I don't even know where it came from. I've just heard it so many times.
Sorry, I just wanted to know if the stream sounded okay.
Whoops, I don't know. Anyone listening to the stream at this point in time?
I think Philips just about to go and check.
Super duper helpful. Thank you very much.
I did tune in in between when I was trying to get the mic going and it sounded okay though.
The volume might have been up a little loud maybe, but I don't know. It sounded okay,
but I just wanted to get another opinion.
Okay, cool stuff. I'm going to try and get the
og streaming mirroring things sorted out now as well.
So feel free to talk amongst yourselves.
Well, good morning, Becky.
Morning.
Oh, great. Becky's here. There goes the PG rating.
Decorum levels have just dropped.
Plump, happy new year, Becky.
And to you too, is your panic over?
Nope.
They've gone to the shops, actually.
I hope they're listening.
My kids now, they've gone to the shops.
They're like hyper this morning.
Is everything all systems go?
Yeah, pretty cool. The MP3 stream is up and I'm just working on the
getting the ogmer stream going.
Unfortunately, the USVPS died, which is very unfortunate because I was kind of
counted on that for all the og streaming.
It died, or do you mean it died?
The server, VPS server went down.
So, inaccessible can't connect.
That's not good.
Now, I sent Josh an email.
Let's see if he can bring back up first.
Meanwhile, I'm the guy that's
by Mark Hosting have also given us a VPS in the UK.
I have a working and getting that working as a
leader in English.
I'm setting that up as a relay now.
Hey, Kevin. How you doing?
I just, I wasn't sure if you were around.
So, I tried to turn the volume down a little bit on your streaming server.
Someone had said it was peaking a little bit.
I don't know if you looked at the same time or heard.
Have you mentioned of that?
No, I just got down.
I know, probably.
I turned it down a smidge, but I can turn it down a bit more,
or you can, if it's necessary.
It's still like on those green and yellow and red lights.
It still seems to peak a little bit.
I don't know what it sounds like, but on the actual stream.
The old stream looks very clean, actually.
Thank you, Crayon.
Good, good.
You know what I said up last night?
Sure.
No, Ken, what did you say up last night?
You know one of those IKEA lights things
that you can use to hold your mic?
I have the plenty of how-to's and how-to-do.
So I decided to do that last night,
and it was incredibly easy.
I love IKEA.
I hate IKEA.
Yes, and that pretty much summarizes
the my feelings on it as well.
I know who in that family builds them
and who in that family uses them.
That's a lie, I build it, and I use it.
And who in that family walks through the IKEA store
for many hours rolling the trolley?
Actually, I've only been to IKEA once.
It's, um, we'll have ordered stuff from there.
We order the bed, didn't we?
I built that, didn't I?
Did I, did I, I built the bed?
I'm sure I built the bed.
I was with you in the room.
Oh yeah, sorry, you built the bed.
I always get lost when I go through IKEA
through the maze of things which look the same.
Yeah, what surprised me about IKEA was
everything was for sale.
It's like even the little furnishings
on the displays,
they have like little pots and nicknacks and stuff.
And you turn them upside down and they go price tag on them.
Well, I just thought they were there for show,
but no, they're for
everything's for sale.
Yeah, even the flake, fake plants.
But you just got the same ideas I had when you guys say
IKEA, he just, the song from Jonathan Colton
pops in his head just like it did mine.
I almost started singing.
Which one?
IKEA, IKEA, selling furniture for college kids and divorce, man.
We're not divorced yet.
I haven't heard that before.
I've, I've, I liked Jonathan Colton.
I should check him out.
Oh, it's, that's a great song.
That's, that's one that has stayed on my MP3 player
since I've heard it.
That's why you sing it so well.
You're a liar.
You will be stinking liar.
I wanted to say what I like about IKEA is
I get to look in all the cupboards
and it's like this is another people's homes
and have a good nose around.
What do you do in an IKEA?
Surely you make your own furniture
knocking you from the very tree
that you've grown from the very seeds
that you gathered while out in your travel.
What, what?
Yeah, I want any trees to dig.
So there, I don't get how that works.
I go there to, to copy the designs, you know,
and then I come home and I make it.
Oh, oh, quick call the,
or IKEA or what the equivalent copyright police is.
It gets all of his best Whittland designs from in there.
The furnace, the furniture industry association of America.
I was, I was going to say that the P F I A A
the particle furniture industry association.
Who's all going to be done recording as a matter?
We're already started because apparently
UTC is only 12 hours behind from the first time zone
is 13 hours ahead.
So there you go.
Press everybody as many people can record as possible.
Does that hurt the stream, do you think?
I don't think so.
Is door ZT, is that another stream?
I don't think that's a stream.
Don't know, I think that could be a feed to the, um, I don't know.
I presume that that was the feed off to the new radio, doesn't it?
But I don't know, even if that's been set up.
Ken, considering, uh, Peter 64 was just asking
what the address of the stream is, um,
I wasn't sure what address you're using for the PHP redirect thing.
Um, but yeah, you might want to put in the channel topic of August.
Let's plan it as well.
Well, if you go to the hackupopigradio.org website,
it's on there right at the front.
Okay, so it is somewhere, yeah.
It's on the main page, including a play now button.
Is, uh, and I just put the links in the
the greeting page here for the room.
Oh, thanks. I was just doing it.
Is that correct?
Yeah, perfect.
You're perfect, Polky.
You're perfect.
Yeah, I don't know about that.
Yeah, you talked to my ex-wife about it.
She'll tell you.
And so let's start.
24 hours later, Polky.
Still not finished.
So where will we?
Becky, did you happen to hear that episode I did with Dave Morris?
Which one?
The one where I say you could skip it?
I can't remember that.
Where was that at the beginning of December?
Yeah, it would have been last week, I think, sometime.
I'm not that far ahead with my HPL listening.
Yeah, that's probably not her.
I just like you all during the episode.
I'm afraid so.
I'm afraid so.
It was pretty brutal.
I was surprised to show it up today and in such a good mood.
I thought you'd be swinging.
I'm going to go bloody listen to it now.
Now we know why, of course.
I'm made of thick skin.
You can say what you want.
Yarrape.
You can say what you want.
But I've got to watch my words.
Too true, too true.
So are you still?
Yeah, good thanks.
Just sat here having a coffee, listening to what's going on.
So the photo on the website are on Twitter.
Yeah, Adam Pope said we need more thinkpats.
It really looks like a serious recording studio.
There you go, Cole.
There's nothing serious going on in this apps.
Yeah, no, it's a proper full, full-blown recording studio.
Where's your points?
Oh, well, we, I've had this.
I've got a blue, a blue Yeti microphone,
a USB microphone.
It's quite nice.
I've had it for about a year now.
But Becky has always sort of like used a headset,
just an analog type headset with a mic on it that she passed through.
And we were playing around the other day.
And we just thought, you know, for the Hacker Public Radio New Year's E-Show,
it's a bit of a special event.
And, you know, we enjoyed it last year so much that we thought we'd go out and buy
Becky at microphone as well.
So a desktop microphone so that she can put earphones in that she's comfortable with.
And just sort of like we can just sit here and drink a few coffee,
just have a few beers later and, you know,
join in with the chat.
So there's also another reason.
I've started to help out DistroWatch Weekly record a segment for their podcast.
And I've also said to DeepGeek, is it Scotty?
That will help him on his talk geek to be news for the HPR episode.
So I just wanted, that's just something a little bit more professional.
Yeah, cool, fantastic.
I just posted the picture there and into the, into the IRC and the
Spine, that's my dining room.
It looks like it's excuse the mess.
It looks like a door is that, that door's ET is
broadcasting to the new radio.net.
It is working.
So the new radio.net is also working, cool.
Correct, but it's not a mirror.
I tried talking to those guys yesterday to, to where they could just mirror one of us,
you know, set up as a mirror and I didn't have any idea how to do that.
Or they didn't think they had access to that server to configure it in that way.
So door just must have took it upon himself to get that up and going.
Yeah, that was originally going to be one of our primaries and I just,
I hadn't had a chance to get with anybody these past couple weeks.
Does my audio sound good on this one?
Sounds fantastic and sleepy.
Yeah, I just got up right before I connected here.
I'm going to grab me some breakfast and make a part of coffee.
I'm just changing it to the media.
Pokey, I thought you weren't going to be here.
So did I. I'm going to try to pop in and out if I can.
Cool, cool.
Yeah, just checked the new radio.net is up.
Hi, Pokey.
I just said that.
Sorry, not left to you, how are you?
Pretty good, Ken.
You're late.
Hi, Blackro.
Hello.
How is everybody?
Hi, thank you. How are you?
I'm very well. Thank you.
Hello, Mr. Blackro.
Hello. How are you?
Oh, good. Thank you.
Good, good, good.
I thought, as soon as there's a microphone and lots of people to talk to,
I'd sort of shoehorn myself in.
Yeah, I'm going to go for it.
So where have we got to?
You've got to do this for 24 hours.
Is that right?
You haven't started yet.
Oh, blow me.
No, we have.
Yeah, no, we have.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, I think we have seven minutes to go stuff.
No, no, no, no, that's it.
You're fall, Pokey.
My fault, what do you mean my fault?
I'm the one that you're most of the times all of them.
Glad to it.
Glad to just turns out that we don't all know when new year occurs in all countries
around the world is all.
So the show has been running for a while now and hi, by the way.
Wow.
I did the math when it was actually announced and 6am is when that should start
according to the times that were posted because I didn't know when it was UTC here.
You think there'd be some way to figure that out like with computers or something.
There is.
I figured it out at 6am here.
I'm on timeanddate.com.
They will a nice new year countdown and it shows us a list of every country as it
enters a new year.
So we missed we missed Christmas Island.
No, we were here.
We were here.
Sorry, I missed Christmas Island, but I don't think that place is real.
Anyway, I think it's fictional.
I think it's made up.
Yes, and then like that Rudolph the red nose ring.
Happy New Year, everyone.
Happy New Year.
Hey, John.
Happy New Year.
Hey, John, nice guy.
Right on.
How are you doing?
I'm doing really well.
I'm using a set that I don't normally use for mumbles.
So can someone just confirm my audio's at least vaguely usable?
You sound brilliant, John.
Sounds great.
Sounds even nicer.
The wonders of the Samsung Galaxy Note 2.
I know some Samsung Galaxy's are available.
Indeed, no tech envy from anyone in the audience.
A little bit.
I love it.
I saw on the other day and I was very, very tempted.
I was thinking, hmm, hmm.
But you know, I've got the addiction to our cost tablets.
So I'm, I'm, I'm sat here going, of course, Galaxy,
of course, of course, Galaxy,
or which do I go for?
I had an argument with my brother on Christmas Eve about
because he's got a Galaxy Note 2 and I've got a, I've got a Galaxy S3
and we were comparing screen sizes and it all got a bit heated.
So he could, he can, oh no, not, not mind bigger than yours again.
Yeah.
It's a screen envy dressed up a penis envy.
So that's when I needed to write my next a seven
and look out the water, but I didn't quite have it yet.
My, my sister-in-law made the fateful comment yesterday.
So isn't, is a tablet an iPad?
No, no, no, no, no, no.
You've got it around the wrong way entirely.
An iPad is a tablet not the other way around.
Oh, it's an iPad, it's an iPad, it's a backlit T-trade.
Are we starting with that Apple bashing already?
No, no, no, no, I was, I was, I was very, I was very, you know,
I toned down my rampant freedom evangelism for fear of being hit by my wife
and, and stoned by my brother and, and he's fanboy children.
I thought we were just continuing it from last time still.
I just, I want to say real quick, Ken, if you feel like doing another musical break at any point
that you can pop that IKEA song into the rotation because it is CC.
And black grow your transmit and all your key taps.
What was, what was that, what was that track you said?
IKEA by Jonathan Coolton.
Can, can you do me a favour?
I don't know whether Ken is, is, is around and or listening and or doing anything
usable, but Ken, if you're not already, can you let me know what the tracks are that have
been played in this stream and I'll add them all to CC hits?
He's been getting them from CC hits.
Yes, I will do.
The, the, the, the important thing for, for me, for the, as far as CC hits is not so much
getting new tracks into the system, although that's great and I love getting new tracks into the
device.
The important thing for me is, is knowing that they're played because what I want to do is make it so
that when somebody hears a track on a daily show or a week show or on another website and they
hit the vote link, they see where else that track was played because they're making
them find out about the other podcasts because that's really key to me.
You know, it's all well and good finding a niche that you like, but if you completely, like,
say for example, if you're listening to the bug cast and you always listen to the bug cast and
you never listen to anything else and you vote for a track on the bug cast that says that this
was also played on Ratthol radio or was played on in somebody radio, Canada or, you know, one of
these other shows that submits tracks to CC hits, then you, you, you find out about more great music
because, you know, ultimately that's what I want to do is get more people listening to great music
and the more of it's the greater comments the better and I'll get off my soapbox.
Cool, can you agree with you more?
Not a problem.
And by the way, I have managed to get the secure copy of the files download,
but we can talk about that later.
Oh man, okay, I'm sorry about that, Ken.
No, it's probably something I'm doing.
Which, where is it you're trying to get to the files from?
The SAP, the daily ones?
No, but I mean, as in, is it from your local machine?
Is it from a server? Is it something that you can give me access to?
And I'll think around with it sort of when I'm not dripping the house all its Christmas decorations.
Yeah, I'll do that one right now.
I'm five hundred things to do right now, but we can do it afterwards.
You know, I saw the VPS that was running on, has died.
Oh, okay, very enough.
So when it comes back up, we'll, we'll reinitiate that project.
Okay, okay.
Well, I mean, so is that, is that going to, is that going to be a general,
HPR sort of standard thing that whenever the ice cast isn't running,
you're going to be running CC hit stuff off it?
Yep. So what we have is the, you know, the Linux link.net.
Right.
It's a website that Dan Bosch got from the Linux link.
Texture, who also plays music at the end.
So you might want to get in touch with him about joining a little CC hit.
I think it's different that is not music, but what he does at the end.
How can you, how can you not appreciate the, the, the pinnacle of musical essence that,
Jesus, penis is just, can you repeat that, please?
Yeah, I just want to say very far exactly what it was.
You just said that because I thought I heard you say Jesus penis.
Yes, well, actually, I wanted to check that was one of the most inspirational and top
revoking bands of our era being played virtually on the Linux link.
Texture, it inspires you to pull your headphones off and hit them with a hammer.
How many sets I've been through in the last four weeks?
You say crap. I say called provoking music.
You say crap. I say, honk, honk.
Is it on the part? Is it on the part like I'm John O'Bacon and Severed Fee?
No, no, no, it's supposed to be on the yacht.
It takes it to a new level.
To quote Tory Pratchett, it's so bad.
It's gone through bad and come out the other side.
It's not a new level. It's another dimension.
Badception.
Anyway, John, the plan is we have this VPS whenever it's up and the plan is that we would like
to keep somebody in the HPR room so that you can do live shows, say the community news show can
be also streamed through there. It can support 700 simultaneous clients, so that should be
absolutely fine for a community news session, which we also need to do, by the way, CT.
Thanks very much.
And when that's not playing, then it's going to fall back to a linuxlink.net feed.
And if you go to the linuxlink.net, then you will see a list of technical podcasts and stuff
on myself and Dave Morris wrote a portal script.
Sometime back, we asked for recommendations for good technical podcasts and music podcasts,
students, you know, creative comments stuff. So CC hits is in there.
The bug cast is in there.
The rattle radio is in there.
A lot of a lot of the regular tech podcasting.net and all those guys are in there.
So the plan is, or what I've set up over there is a mash-patter downloads, new episodes.
So we keep a month of episodes there.
And it'll simply just cycle through those playing a bumper every now and again.
So give people something to listen to.
And that's pretty cool.
You're talking about your round, right?
Yep, you're.
Lovely. Thank you.
So when Icecast actually has a way that you can do an intro and an outro.
So as it's playing there, then when the stream comes back up, it'll go,
we interrupt this program to bring you a live show from the Hacobopac River,
a rumour, mumble, blah, blah, blah.
And then at the end, now we return you to our collection of creative comments hits
blah, blah, blah, blah.
But if the server's down, there's not a lot we can do about that.
But there you go.
But fair enough, I understand that.
And aside from that, we'll also be streaming the CC hit stat net.
Just all the daily shows, one after the other, cost pay.
Look who?
Hey, folks, why don't you say good morning and confuse Ken Fallon,
because he cannot keep the two of us straight.
And I find that worlds of amusing.
Sorry, I'm fixing the aug stream and participate until one or other of you go.
It isn't funny, but I cannot tell you apart.
I can't, I can't read that.
Polkaey and Puppy.
They sound quite different though, don't they?
Yeah, he sounds cool.
The mind sounds stupid.
Go, go, go.
And that there is no such thing as stupid.
There's just different shades of intelligence.
Nothing, nothing.
So I was going to say his nickname sounds like he got to pick it for himself.
Mine got picked for me.
If he picked his own, if somebody picked his nickname, it will be Elvis too.
I think, I think, I think he cheated.
He just took a while on the end of his surname.
I think he changed it.
I think he changed it.
I think he called.
Well, that was cool.
Can you hear me?
Hello, Alan.
Hello.
We can hear you, but your mic is right next to your speakers.
I, yeah.
But that's okay.
It just means the rest of us can't talk while you're talking.
You get, you get priority.
I'm just, in the kitchen, making the kids lunch at the moment.
I'll, I'll move to somewhere where I have headphones, surely.
Maybe Pope isn't his actual last name, but his profession.
It definitely is his last name.
But I think he changed it, but did, Pope.
And it's definitely not his profession.
There's nothing reverent about him.
I know, he just blessed us in the channel.
He's a lovely bloke in real life.
Like, pulpy or polky?
Polky, doesn't know polky.
If you have to ask.
So, polky, how did you get given your hand all in?
I'm just a bit slow.
All right.
Okay.
I polky as in brum brum poke.
Yeah, pretty much.
Yeah, I mean, I had an old girlfriend who called me that for other reasons, but.
Oh, there are goals, there are goals.
But I know, no one who's ever called me polky has ever met anybody else who did.
So it's, it's a nickname that keeps coming around.
Even if I try not to drag it with me, it just comes along for the ride.
And I like to consider myself not slow, but efficient.
Caughtlessly careful.
I really wish I wasn't wondering round the lounge with the phone in my pocket.
So I could actually get it out when I'm the phone that is.
So I could actually get it out and laugh when stuff amuses me.
Cause you want me to get it out.
I'm live, live on it.
Oh, okay, sorry.
Hello.
John the dirty guy.
Hey, how you doing?
Hey, what's shaking, somebody give him a track of who's joining, budley?
Where are we supposed to?
Well, it will be nice.
Can set up a script that takes a screenshot every time the list of main changes.
I still have to get the Augs script gold. Give me a break here.
Does a mumble server have like a log that you can pass and get a grab the use names out?
Yeah, it does actually.
Cool.
Pookie, that's one for you.
No, I don't have access to the log files.
I'm sure Dork can hook you up with it.
Who is that?
Dork, Dork Geek, it's his server.
What?
Who said that?
Jonathan NATO.
Hi Jonathan, how are you doing?
Good can, how are you doing?
Not too bad, still blind.
Oh yeah.
Decalz!
Hello Jonathan.
I'm real straight to hell for that move.
Well, I have no idea, but I can't make up Pookie at all.
No?
I'm sorry.
Well, it's not your fault, it's my first time trying to use mumble, so...
One of my daughter would like to say hello.
My...
What did you do?
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
We've been shopping.
And what did you get?
Uh...
We got fireworks, cool.
Yay.
Okay, everybody say hello, Shenade and three, two, one.
Hello.
Hello.
Yay.
Yeah, we're gonna have to do that for all the other two as well.
Okay, that really didn't work, because there was just too much fragmentation to hear to anyone.
But...
How it sounds?
It's perfect to hear.
Thanks guys, it worked well too.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
We have a high mind.
She's gone.
Good morning everybody.
Did she run away screaming?
No, she's chuffed.
The other one said, hey, do you want to come on the radio letter?
No.
That was more the bulk than the bulk, I think.
Perhaps.
Okay, sorry for room there for everybody.
And we can go back to being explicit 18.
Except we can't, because Patrick needs to say hello.
Say hello, Patrick.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Is that Patrick or Patrick?
Patrick.
What's your name?
Patrick.
Hello.
Hello.
Patrick.
I'm from...
How old are you?
I'm seven.
How much is this in town?
You can say it in person.
Seven is an excellent age.
I can't drive cars.
What do you think?
It's a terrible age.
You have a nobody blames you or gets mad if you eat the paste.
Fireworks.
Fireworks.
Fireworks.
That's what you got.
Cool.
Okay.
Thanks for...
Are you going to put your life on next, Ken?
Yeah, I'll do them all and get it over with.
Hey, who's next?
Here's Roisin.
Who is?
Roisin.
How old are you?
Five.
What's your name?
Roisin.
Hello, everybody.
Roisin.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hi.
Hi, everyone.
Hello, Mrs. Ken Fallon.
Hello.
How old are you, Mrs. Ken Fallon?
You can't ask that.
Oh, you're not allowed to ask that.
21.
Oh.
Okay, that's that from here.
Thank you very much.
Ken leaves in a panic.
It seemed inconsistent.
Yeah, that's run to family.
I heard them all once a year, you know.
Wow, they did a great, great job then.
I had no suspicions.
And what are you buying a seven-year-old fireworks, by the way?
One point out, it's a talent.
I don't know them.
When our daughter...
Oh, sorry.
When our daughter realized what we were going to be doing,
she's arranged to stay out a new year's eve party,
so she did not even going to bother coming home today.
That sounds fair.
Woo-hoo!
That's what I did.
Is that where her friends ask her,
what are your parents doing?
And she says to them,
having a party with a load of other people I don't know,
is that why she's saying it?
Usually dies a shame.
I can't believe that for one second.
She seems like the sort of thing that would revel,
absolutely revel in the fact that her parents
are talking to people from all over the world.
That would be cool.
That was the sort of thing I was well impressed with,
where my dad was a radio.
I'll hang on.
Okay.
I do think that she's secretly pleased,
but to be around it,
she would just be like, oh God, whatever.
Yeah, plus she's of that age
where she grew up with the internet and stuff,
so talking to people from around the world
is nothing new really,
whereas I grew up with a phone
which I was very rarely allowed to use
and have a dial on it and stuff like that.
So speaking to somebody from America or wherever,
on a computer, it's still quite exciting,
but it's not what I grew up with, so.
There's going to come a point
where we have sort of 3D holographic images
transmitted over mumble,
and she's going to get really excited about that,
and then you want to creep up on a reminder.
So long as they've got their clothes on, I don't care.
I've got a sneaking suspicion
that black crow sat there and he's dressing good.
Right, they could have snuck good.
I have my animal from the Motties pajamas on.
Nice one.
Yeah, that could have gone in so many different ways there.
That could have just been,
I have my tracker on,
I have the ankle bracelet
that the police gave me on.
You could have said, I have nothing.
You went with animal pajamas seriously?
I didn't exclude the other things on the list.
Black crow, are you surrounded by your doggies as well?
I have one extremely fluffy cat sat with me.
The doggies are taking the opportunity of lack of misses to go sleep.
They're all killed up on a bunch on the sofa.
I'm not going to lie to you guys,
I'm wearing my slippers and boxer shorts.
It must be the worst,
because I'm like all dressed for work.
I gotta go in 10 minutes.
I've got my family guy slippers on that I've got for Christmas.
Family guy rocks.
Oh, I love that show.
I'm a massive fan.
Well, just while you started talking about this, I wouldn't get dressed,
so I know I'm going to be dressed.
And by the way, Barbara Bex,
you cannot compete on messiness.
You should see this.
It's like a bomb site in here.
It's fantastic.
Oh, I have to open eyes for you.
I just have chaos.
Philip always says that if there's a flat surface in the house,
I will put something on it.
Whereas in our house,
if there's a flat surface available,
Marley's will put an animal on it, generally speaking.
You know, she got a job working up
at a wildlife rescue centre back in the summer.
Within three weeks,
we had a cat and a snake.
Like two snakes.
Yeah, she bought a corn snake home.
Within four weeks, you had a snake.
Yeah, yeah.
She's ridiculous on it.
In one bedroom flat,
we already have three cats,
three two hours,
five chickens, a guinea pig.
Seriously, you got five chickens in a one bedroom flat.
No, actually in the one bedroom flat,
in the back garden.
Cool.
What else do we got as far as guinea pig?
A tank full of...
How can we turn off that?
Go to configure if you're in mumble, Alster.
Yeah, got it.
Yeah, and turn off text speech.
Got it.
Oh, thank you for that.
Yeah.
So we have a tank full of fish
and then she added another cat and a snake.
And I said, if we get to Christmas
without gaining an owl or something,
we'd be doing well.
She's ridiculous.
You have like an entire food chain going on in your house.
Yeah, it's getting that way.
It's getting that way.
And I'm not sure that I'm at the top of it either.
I was just about to say you are at the top of it.
Only by default and weight, I think.
Hello, 5150.
Good morning, everybody.
You said I'm fine.
I'm having fun.
We've got the 5150.
Good morning, dude.
No, I think it's a feeling of precarity, actually.
I thought it was involuntary psychiatric hold.
That's the code for that.
Oh, right.
Is that an American thing?
Oh, yes, I'm an American.
You guys might not understand.
That's a little...
I think that's a criminal code is where that comes from.
But yeah, it does have something to do with the California Statute
or the criminal insanity.
But that's just complete certainty.
Actually, I...
5150, your silence is crap.
Can you move to the lounge and we get a sort of please?
Oh, back in a second.
And now we have to wait for an explanation.
That was quite a good album.
I thought about it.
It was.
I do like that album.
So we have to ask the question of everybody,
seen as the subject has come up.
Dave Lee Roth or...
You're the guy.
Sammy Hager?
Yeah, that's the one.
Sammy Hager or Dave Lee Roth?
I should have asked a technical question,
because I'm getting no responses here.
Which one did...
Which one did jump?
That was Dave Lee Roth.
Well, him then.
Oh, dude.
I'm gonna go with Eddie.
That's only because it's the only van hiding somewhere now.
Oh dear.
Silence isn't good on the podcast, is it?
I'm just gonna have to sit here and just talk.
We'll fix it in the post.
It's cool.
Becky's making tea.
Oh, can I have one?
He'll send it out via carrier pigeon.
Oh, excellent, excellent.
Can I have it hot this time?
That's really awful.
Not chance.
At least...
At least arrange it so that the bird doesn't crap in the tea this time.
That's ill for days.
I feel like we're hemorrhaging people.
This is kind of surprising.
We should have made sure that there wasn't real life to go back to.
Here we do this 24 hours.
That's true.
I just listened to the two tattoos walkie cast a little while ago.
I like that a lot.
That was a good episode.
By the gig.
I'll try the second after work.
See you guys.
Cheerio, have a good day.
I do have fun news.
I'll elaborate.
I've finally got a job in open source.
Oh, congratulations.
What's the job?
You know,
a joint, the cloud infrastructure people.
Yeah, don't you do a lot with, like, alumos and stuff like that?
Or is that someone else?
They do a little bit.
They're big things.
Or their biggest product line is smart OS.
Which is the community fork of the old sun OS.
That's it.
Yeah.
When Oracle bought them out a couple of years ago,
they weren't too keen on working for that kind of company.
So they fought the distro and basically bugged off.
And they're rebranded it smart OS.
And most of the development team now work for joint.
And they use smart OS as their virtual controller for their cloud space.
And I'm joining them on support in January.
And I'm going to be working from home.
Congratulations.
I'm very impressed today.
Actually, they've got a whole catalogue of open source projects,
which they are either the core responsible for or they contribute too heavily.
And they're very proud of being open source,
keeping a successful business model over there.
I mean, they list their ambitious.
And the beast competition is being Amazon AWS.
And the way they put the product together is absolutely astonishing.
So I'm looking forward to joining them too.
You know what the best part is?
All the ZFS work you get to do.
Yeah, they're very big on ZFS.
They were talking to me about just how far they've got their performance to increase.
Even reckon that they can run virtual machines as smart OS clients.
And they actually get performance,
which is better than OS on bare metal in a virtual machine,
just because they haven't got that heavy input output layer to negotiate.
So I was thinking that goes against everything I know about computing.
When you look at the stats of just how fast smart OS can actually read right to the disk,
it's actually faster than bare metal OS. It's incredible.
It seems really unintuitive until you realize that there's stuff that like RAID
that will go around sort of technical limitations like that,
that you'd be able to actually exceed those speeds in that sort of fashion.
Yeah, and you just realize the scale when they start talking about,
you know, just how by pure chance and pure large scale numbers,
corruption can appear in more conventional disc operating systems.
And when you actually...
Every 12 terabytes.
This is the one, and when you actually get to the scale where that becomes significant,
you just go, whoa.
They are shifting massive amounts of data.
And you don't have to file a system check CFS ever,
because the only way it can ever be damaged is disk failure.
And it will...
You just like rebuild the array sort of, it's not really an array,
but whatever you would call it in CFS terms.
Yeah, I've got to learn a lot about that.
And that was one thing that looks exciting.
I think as I actually get to learn more about the product,
I've got to go through about a month of training.
And I was thinking that that puts me in a position to do more HPR casts
as a sort of, like, you know, recap for myself.
But yeah, I mean, they're absolutely slap bangin' in HPR's sort of interest.
The things we'd like to know more about.
They've got a product called detrace,
which is a stack performance and stack issue tracer.
And instead of just looking at one specific part of any tool chain,
it actually goes through the whole of the tool chain from disk to final output
to see where any bottlenecks are, where any problems are.
So I'm thinking that people will find that interesting as well,
because it's not a tool that's got great visibility in them in it.
It's sort of like a VMware vPro if people know what that is.
Yeah, I don't know a whole lot about it,
but I guess it's very similar to that.
You also have, as I say, the SmartOS
and a bunch of other things they use.
The ZFS, they're very big into.
But they also use, as an alternative to,
if you don't, you don't have to use SmartOS.
If you want to use Ubuntu, for example,
they're very big into having Ubuntu as VMs to interface
with the cloud service if you want.
And they've got some interesting products as well.
The, what's that quick installation thing that they've got going up?
KVM?
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Oh, how you hell wow?
How?
What was that?
That was dull, exactly, you know, nothing.
Oh man, it's already happened.
We're only like 27 minutes in or already in the siege.
I think that was John trying to come in.
Sorry, guys, that was me.
I stuck that put the speak on,
and then forgot I didn't have headphones in this.
Polities.
Oh.
Black right, you were saying.
I was saying about the, um,
what's that tool that a bunch of,
a Popeye?
Oh, Juju.
That's the one.
Charms.
So many Juju charms.
Yeah.
Um, but I'm, I'm sort of looking forward to seeing how that competes,
um, with what Smarter West can offer, um,
because they've got that whole zone thing with Smarter West,
uh, all the old slurries, where it doesn't just, um,
you know, have a bunch of, um, separate, uh, different tools,
uh, for assigning various resources and permissions and things,
everything's done by its own.
So you set up a zone, um, and it assigns hardware resources,
software resources.
Where are the permissions?
Uh, uh, in Western Superman.
Western Superman.
I don't know if that idea out there.
What was that?
But there's, um, uh, there's a guy who goes to the Manchester Hacker Space.
Yeah.
He's, um, very interested in the open Solaris side of things.
Actually, all right.
The, the Oracle provided kit.
So you're over in the area.
Get yourself across to Manchester Hacker Space.
Hmm.
Well, I was going to ask, like, what, what, um,
qualifications do you feel that you had that, that made them,
you know, that, that got you the job.
Like, what kind of stuff did you have to know?
Or, or why did you feel like you could apply for it and get it?
Well, I was suggested through an agency to them.
And, uh, it was purely that I was working, uh, in Unix Airbus.
Uh, had, um, a private interest in, uh, Linux and felt like I could just hack away at things.
Um, and it was also that I was quite chatty and, uh, quite,
because they have found that, um, most of the people that they've employed, um,
on the very heavy technical sides aren't, aren't natural communicators,
shall we say?
Absolutely awkward.
A little bit.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, there's a, there's a way that my team describes it, which is there's, um,
there's a particular kind of person that gets interested in the, uh,
the industry we're in.
Yeah.
And, um, they're all a bunch of freaks, freaks.
And where you fall on the freaks, guys?
Uh, uh, uh.
Yeah.
But the, uh, the way it was put to me was that they wanted somebody with a combination
of willingness to, to hack away and, and try something different or new, um,
and just generally get involved and, uh, be, you know, chatty and happy.
And, uh, represent the company well, personally, as well as technically.
And you're the best man for the job, Black Crow.
You're very chatty.
We can, um, uh, a piece to that.
Yeah, it was, uh, what I saw, 24 hours of an open mic to talk to.
Woo.
Excellent.
You got me through my 24 hour hangover a couple of years ago.
That was a bad hangover to get through that.
So that was a monster.
The really compelling thing about, uh, smart OS, the way it's been explained to me is that, um,
the zone sort of work like, uh, a workspace under like a bunch of,
except you allocate resources that way.
So whatever zone is like a different instance.
Yeah, it's, um, it really does bring everything together under, uh, one tool.
Um, so that you don't have to, there's less chance of you forgetting.
Something is, is the nicest well I've heard it put is, um,
um, the standard profiles that generate every day don't mean you going into six, seven tools to, um,
to allocate everything you need.
Uh, you create the zone, um, and then you apply that like a template, um,
just very easily and very quickly is, is the thing with the exception of, um,
like turnkey Linux.
I don't really see anything else that could compete with this, especially in the space of multi-tenancy,
because solaris has always been sort of that thing.
Um, even though Oracle said that multi-tenancy was a stupid thing,
and then they completely, um, reversed their position on that like a year ago.
What is that?
Do you have some links for some of this post?
Um, I will find something the, uh, Oracle said that they thought multi-tenancy was irresponsible.
Which is, you know, like shared resources of databases on things that are important.
And they completely reversed that position, like, at the last Oracle con.
Let's, let's post a link to, um, join anyway, because they, they're very, um,
not only open technically, but they're very open generally in, um,
what they do, if I just push that, there we go.
Um, could it be, uh, the reason why Oracle don't want people to be multi-tenancy,
or any kind of shared resource thing is because they sell licenses based on number of calls?
That would be a good, that would be a good, um, reason,
but I don't think that's the case because I think they would have just changed the licensing scheme
to make it, you know, more expensive, all you can eat or something.
That's usually what Oracle does in my experience.
Right.
I think it's so they could probably sell more sets of expensive hardware,
because that's what really Oracle likes to do these days.
Yeah, very much so.
I mean, we, um, I'm saying we already haven't even joined the company yet,
but, um, joint's position is different to that.
Um, the way they charge is on a, um, a time basis.
Um, but whereas most companies will, uh, charge at the peak rate,
the highest rate that you've used, um, or a bandwidth rate,
they take, uh, a view that you can see a background level of usage,
and that, uh, peaks are generally extraordinary.
So your configuration is set to normally operate at that background rate.
And if there is a burst, um, the system brings in resources to cope with those bursts,
but you're only charged at the background rate,
the bursts are just dealt with for you.
It's like software as a service to the extreme.
Very much so, very much so.
Um, the advantage being these, is you just get a predictable, um,
rate of charge, you get a predictable, um,
no expenditure on your web services based upon your average,
not your burst rate.
That's obviously the way the businesses would want to run it,
because if they can budget for that, it's a lot easier than having to pay,
you know, as you go for specific services.
Yeah, very much so, very much so they, um,
they're aiming very, very much at the moment, um,
for cloud services, which are connecting to Facebook, Twitter, uh,
LinkedIn, in fact, LinkedIn's one of their biggest customers in the minute.
Um, and it seems to be making sense for a lot of people.
When do you start at this new job?
Uh, second week in January, if everything goes to plan,
uh, as I say, I've got to go through a month of training,
but, uh, they've been very good.
They've, uh, said, ah, right, if, uh,
Western, another guy we're bringing on stream is, uh, geographically close,
then we'll, uh, we'll hire some office space in, in Western.
And, uh, I'm training you there.
Fabulous.
It would be cool to work off site, um, something like that,
where you have no supervision, really, other than just, you know,
the other people you work with directly.
Yeah, um, I'll only be the third employee in the UK, um,
that joint have.
Um, so far, they've been a completely San Francisco, uh,
based operation, uh, which also brings in the very,
nice thought that to go and see the boss,
I'll have to go on business class over to San Francisco a couple of times here.
There's a lot of cool stuff in San Francisco.
Oh, yeah.
I'm so looking forward to it.
I've, um, uh, I've already, uh,
so brought up the thought I can go and see a 49ers game.
I can probably go and see some bands.
I could probably even hook up with Jono when he's over there and stuff like that.
It's, uh, it's, it should be very, very good.
When are you going over there?
I, I don't know precisely yet.
It's mooted that it would be March April time if everything goes to plan.
But, uh, best laid plans are nice men and all that.
Right.
Uh, I've promised, I've promised,
called nominal a trip to San Francisco for his 40th.
Although he was a pair of socks.
No, Ashley, Becky Keith's asking me what I want to do for my fourth year.
So I've sort of like got no idea really.
But I can't afford it.
It might be nice to, uh, go and see a, uh,
see if we can get in in the audience for a recording of Twit.
That might be cool.
Yeah, I thought so.
If I could just interrupt everybody for a few minutes,
I want to stop my recording for a moment.
One second, please.
And we're starting the second half of Hacker Public Radio's New Year's 2013 Extra Begins, uh,
and...
Oh, the second half's going to be a long one then.
Whew, there we go.
Well, this is today's show.
So I don't know what we're going to do after that.
Just some things that people are, um, wanting to talk.
There's information on the main Hacker Public Radio webpage and how to join the chat.
The Ogg stream is now up.
We'll be adding some additional murs to that right now.
Uh, if you do want to just listen along and you're in the mumble room, uh,
we'd appreciate it if you could move out of the mumble room and in,
out of mumble and, in fact, entirely,
and nip on to one of the many, many streams that we have.
If you're just listening along, there's only a few seconds delay and most of them.
And then if, and the reason for that is,
is it helps us to spread our bandwidth out and leave, uh,
leave bandwidth and room in the mumble server for folks who are going to talk.
Absolutely, but there's plenty of space on here.
So, you know, don't feel free.
You need to go until we get kind of busy.
Also, if you,
thanks, Pokey, you just twacked that out of my head.
I'm sorry about that.
Uh, you were saying that, uh, you know,
pop off the mumble server and onto the, um,
the stream if you're listening in.
Yeah, and if you're, uh, joining the mumble chat, can you go into the lounge and,
um, people will assist you with getting your, uh,
network connection sorted up first.
We're also, uh, available on, um,
free node, uh, IRC dot free node.net in the,
hash august planus room if you want to join in to the chat over there.
All this information is on the main hacker public radio page.
And if you're on Twitter or Facebook or whatever,
if you could publish the fact that this is going on,
we'd all appreciate it.
And that's that.
I'll go and encode the show and post today's hacker public radio show.
I've been, um, joining in, uh,
George Dodgers, uh,
tech and coffee recently class few days.
We're if I could track some people in from there.
What is that?
You know, um, on Google plus, um,
George Joshua came to, uh,
over on the States and, uh,
to on camp.
He, uh, started up tech and coffee,
uh, in hangouts and basically,
he runs a hangout which people populate,
you know, virtually 24 or 7.
Um, and a few nights a week,
they, they'd actually do, uh,
a recording which they publish on YouTube,
uh, of the G plus hangout.
That's got some nice techy people in there.
They have a beautiful website.
Wow.
Go check that out.
Yeah.
So for the link, please.
I got it.
Yeah.
Thank you.
I've just been joined by cat.
Um, oh god.
Uh, go on.
Thank you.
Uh, yeah.
And they, they, they just got people to sit
for most of a day and talk technical
to each other while drinking coffee.
Uh, and that, uh,
and that's worked out really nicely for them.
They got a really nice set up over there.
Yeah, I've, I've gone into the hangout before.
They're, uh, they're a good bunch of guys in there.
Hmm.
I was just point out that we missed, um,
happy new year to everybody on Norfolk Island.
Happy new year, everybody on Norfolk Island.
Happy new year.
Happy new year.
Yeah.
And we've got about 18 minutes away from,
on the next one, which is, uh, I believe,
Peter 64's time zone.
Yeah.
It's much of Australia.
Ah, technical fee.
Uh, Peter is listening on the IRC channel.
And although he's,
I also thought he was supposed to be at work today.
So I don't understand this.
But then again,
it's probably one o'clock in the morning.
Nightmoing.
I guess we did need that map to keep it everything straight.
Oh, it's not the maps 50, 150.
It's the clocks we're having so much trouble reading.
But when Mickey's big hand gets to the top of the face,
has any of you ever tried explaining a clock to some kids?
Because it becomes so natural to you,
but there's actually three different things going on.
So this is, this is one, two, three, four, five.
I think there's, uh, some comedians
that's done a very excellent job at describing the time.
It has a five.
No, it's not five.
It's 10 past.
I did, but then they were like,
why wouldn't you just use a digital display?
Are you from the 1800s?
And then they make fun of me.
And then I just stopped because I don't think it's worth it.
Yeah, my pierced with the time.
Because an analog clock is recognized faster by the brain.
What about binary clocks versus analog?
Let's take even longer.
No.
Really? Are that used to it now?
Yeah, I have it running on all my computers,
so I forced myself to become used to it.
Cool. I remember you did a show on that.
Was that a HPR?
Was that a new world order?
There's a segment on the new world order.
I remember hearing that.
Gee, my entire life is in my podcasts.
How do you people know this?
We have RSS.
Yeah.
It's really the RSS that did it.
I was going to say I did have to teach a grown-up once to read an analog clock.
That was an experience.
Wow, that's weird.
Did they just come out of a fallout shelter or something?
Yeah.
I don't know how she got that way,
but we're divorced now, so all as well.
I know who you're talking about.
I know.
You want this whole thing to be a therapy session for you?
No, it wasn't.
It just brought it up,
and it's the God's Honest Truth.
It's been 7 a.m.
We're already getting Poké's X stories.
How many are there?
All right, no more.
I won't even mention it again.
How many are there?
X is just one.
That's one.
I thought he was going to be like seven,
and it was going to be like Scott Pilgrim or something.
No, no, just one, but she's a big one.
To answer the question about telling the time,
I've been teaching my son to read the time
from an analog clock,
and when he wants something,
I'll do it for you.
I'll let you watch that film at a certain time
so that he has to work out the time.
Nice, blackmail.
You got it.
In a previous job quite a few years ago now,
I had to hire a van driver,
so it was paying minimum wage,
maybe less than a minimum wage if we were honest.
And so the only place we could really go
was the job center for applicants.
And you know you're going to get a certain kind of person
when you advertise at the job center.
Careful.
You know, especially when you're paying extremely low wages.
I should remind you that Becky manages
the local jobs out there.
She knows what I'm talking about.
And this one guy came
and I mean he was a strange cove by any standards.
But the first question you ask when you're hiring
for a van driver's job is,
great, can I see your driving license please?
And when I asked that question,
he gave me a slightly funny look and he says,
so I said,
you do have a driving license, don't you?
And he said,
and this is no exaggeration.
This is verbatim what he said.
He said,
no, but I can make one.
I got it.
Now, 10 or 10 for being a self-starter there,
but entrepreneurial spirit.
Oh, yeah.
And for being honest,
alright, he was honest at least.
Oh, he wasn't.
Obviously another guy who listens to Klaatu's show.
Exactly.
Yeah.
I was just going to say,
he wasn't going to get Klaatu to make a net license, was he?
I don't do it for hire.
Oh, I did not know what to say to the guy at that point.
I didn't have blue hair, did he?
Not at that point.
So how long has he been in the job?
He's promised to do it now.
That was amazing.
I had another van driver who recently left the infantry,
joined when he was very, very young.
He'd done three years servicing the infantry.
And he became extremely at job
to the effect that he wouldn't do anything
unless you told him to.
And about a month into the job,
he came into the office one day,
and we saw,
is something being to smell?
Oh, that's when Simon comes into the office, isn't it?
Funny.
And being a boss, sort of,
who was going to actually have a talk to him about it?
And you know,
you expect when you're going to talk to somebody
about how they smell,
that that's going to be a difficult conversation
because of how the other person is going to react.
But not with Simon,
it was very, very strange.
He just said to him,
you need to go and have a bath.
And there wasn't a flicker of reaction from the guy.
He just went,
yeah, OK, man.
And just went off and had a shower.
And it was incredible.
It didn't even register with him,
that it was a problem that somebody had to tell him
to go and have a shower,
leave it alone.
People's minds formed in very strange ways.
And this is the job you're leaving, correct?
Oh, no, I left that job.
Okay.
Many years ago, many years ago.
I noticed for looking elsewhere
were becoming a lot clearer to me.
Yeah, that was basically,
as soon as I left school and moved south,
I just needed a job going anywhere.
And the first job that came up was
with an electrical wholesaler selling bits of cable
to electricians and stuff.
And I learned how to run a ledger
and I learned how to sell stuff.
And that was about as much as that job could ever teach you.
So I left it fairly quickly after that.
Does anyone have access to door ZT,
door-to-door geeks setups?
Not that I mentioned it.
I might, let me see if I do.
Roger, carry on talking.
That is an interesting subject actually,
jobs that you've had in the past.
Go on and go.
Oh, like no one's ever heard me talk about my last job.
Yeah?
I have, I don't think.
Oh, go on.
I worked for a large publisher who actually
has an educational subdivision
that actually does all the Linux certs testing.
But their websites aren't compatible with Linux.
You can't actually use them.
Oh, it's at all.
Don't.
Yeah, this is also the company that,
while patching their servers,
I was actually up wide awake for well over 24 hours
because several of them wouldn't come back up.
And they would just go ahead and,
you know, patch it once every quarter.
All the production servers just take them all down, patch everything.
And that was the way they were, they operated.
In other words, the job from hell,
and I'm glad I'm out of there.
Roger.
Roger.
I'm going to speak through next year's old camp.
I'm very carefully considering doing a talk.
On the last job I had at Airbus,
which came about through one of the most
enormous computer cockups you've ever seen in your entire life.
And when I say enormous,
I say, whether it costs Airbus,
there's a debate about whether it's hundreds of millions
it costs them or whether it costs them billions.
Are you talking about plane crashing bugs here?
No, I'm talking about bugs.
Bugs that stop planes ever getting into the sky in the first place.
Oh, those headphones are okay.
I don't mind those.
As long as the bug happens before it takes off, that's fine.
Agreed.
Yeah.
No, this is a clarify for the page flying.
No, to be fair, having worked at Airbus,
I would now say I'm more happy about going on an airplane
than I have ever been in my life.
I had the degree and standard of engineering
is just out of this world.
It really is.
But they did make on cockup,
which was a tiny, tiny little thing,
and it cost the firm,
certainly hundreds of millions of pounds.
Unbelievable.
Did they mix up the forward and reverse?
No, the mix up was probably almost as basic as that.
It was just a difference between version 4 and version 5
and piece of software.
Was it in scheduling and stuff you mean
or something on the airplane itself?
Do you know the Airbus A380?
Yeah.
The new huge, great super-jumper.
Well, as they were moving from design to manufacture
and actually starting to construct the first test bed aircraft,
the designers and engineers down in the Hamburg plant
were all using a thing called Katia V4,
and anyone who's into industrial design knows that Katia
is the monster CAD and design tool.
It's made by a company called Dasso System,
and it is a big daddy in terms of designing cars,
airplanes, anything industrial.
And the Hamburg guys were using V4,
and everybody else in the company in France,
in the UK, in Spain, and so forth.
They were all using V5,
and there was one little setting in it,
which meant that if you designed the wiring harnesses
for copper, in V5,
if you change the wiring harnesses to have from copper to aluminium,
it automatically updated what they call the bend radius,
which is how much space you need to bend a piece of cable.
And it's different.
A copper will bend more easily than aluminium will.
So if you change that in V5,
it automatically updates,
and the guys were all trained in V5,
but they went back to using V4,
and they decided halfway through designing all the wiring harnesses
that, oh no, we'll put aluminium wiring harnesses in,
because they're cheaper, they're lighter,
and there's a whole bunch of benefits to having aluminium harnesses.
So they changed all the harnesses to aluminium,
and then months and months later,
when they'd actually had all the wiring harnesses made up in the UK,
and shipped out to Germany for final assembly,
when they got them there, they didn't fit.
They couldn't get them through the spaces,
and it was just like, hang on, they don't fit.
And they had to put back the release of A380 by as much as two years.
They lost, but for the freight version of A380,
completely TNT,
and the FedEx cancelled all their orders,
a bunch of airlines cancelled all their orders,
and when one unit costs, I think it's about £250 million,
one of them, and they lost an order for maybe as many as several hundred
at these aircraft.
Yeah, you're talking about a cock up that may be cost billions of pounds.
Unbelievable.
Is the Windows ME of the airline industry?
Oh, yeah, very much so.
The entire industry has gone cock a hoop about versioning.
As you can imagine now, it sits and licensing for different versions
has just become a real bugbearer of the industry now.
Yeah, I've actually worked in that industry for a while,
not directly, but for the instrumentation panels,
and you're right about the versioning on that stuff.
It gets pretty insane with how much you keep track of
even on the instruments and that.
It's like, they have to maintain them for so long,
they actually have to keep track of exactly which firmware is where.
Yeah, I mean, we just interrupt you.
It's six seconds till New Year in Australia.
Which explains where Creon's gone.
We're having a problem with a stream, so when he's back on,
if someone could give him a shout, please.
Happy New Year, Australia.
Happy New Year, Australia.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
I can't just say happy New Year to Grant.
He knows who I'm talking about.
He's one of my friends in Australia.
He's a good guy.
Good guy.
Happy New Year, Grant.
So who's got the all-knowing sign queued app?
Now it's probably proprietary.
We're getting trouble.
Now there's a free recording of it on archive.org.
I think it's happy birthday that has the licensing problems.
Yeah, yeah.
Right.
Yeah, that's the one that has the problems.
What a scam.
I feel that way about copyright in general.
Yeah, yeah.
Good point.
He's a positive guy.
You know you shouldn't say happy old year.
Yeah.
No, because the old year is in the past.
Unless I'm getting confused again.
But the future is what you would be wishing people happiness for.
Right, but remember everything's backwards in Australia.
Oh, yes.
I missed it.
I missed it.
Shame on you.
I just think somebody should try to throw in a lame upside down Australia joke.
Totally.
Yeah.
You know that that stuff isn't actually true to the Coriolis effect only.
Like takes effect in like vast bodies of water.
So like toilets flush the same way around the world.
Who's the gentleman that goes on the dev randoms that they always take the mic out because he's Australian?
More specific.
Like half of us.
Yeah, really.
It's either crayon or ethyr that you're thinking of.
They always give him a good ribbing.
At the end of the year, we always rid of him, but probably talking about Peter 64.
When is the next step random coming on?
Something that talks about merkins again.
I guess that'd be sadder.
Last Saturday was APO and we all got on there and sort of wrapped in.
And the week before was the dev was was dev random.
And they're only three of us me and and this a web and peg wall.
So we decided not to record.
We just talked.
And then the week before that was the KPO that wasn't.
Okay, cool.
So we're not in tension neither shows intentionally pod fading.
But we just that we had a KPO couple weeks ago kind of come off the rails on us.
And then this last weekend we didn't really do it because it was right after the holiday.
Yeah, it turns to get a bit quiet around this time of year, podcasting.
I'm going to go to myself a sandwich anyway.
We just have to take cake.
So don't make me a sandwich.
We'll do.
I got that book for Christmas.
I've got the XK CD book of Christmas.
And on Christmas day I was with the all the mother-in-law's family.
And they're mostly non-technical people.
And they were sort of like flicking through the XK CD books.
This is funny.
Yes.
Can you explain one of the things that gets to me?
When you said that book, I thought you meant you got 50 Shades of Grey.
I'm very nearly bought that book, actually.
I gave my father a Kindle for his birthday a year ago.
And I set 50 Shades of Grey on there.
And I made it read only so we couldn't remove it.
Shades or Shades.
Shades.
50 Shades of Grey.
A great book about like architecture of Shades.
But that's not what I got them.
I got them 50 Shades of Grey.
I think Becky's going to find some 50 Shades of Grey outtake some,
read them out to you in her voice.
She does it to me all the time.
Oh.
Hang on.
Yeah, I was trying to explain the pseudo,
might be a sandwich sketch.
Now, if you're a unix admin, this is hilarious.
Oh, there really is a 50 Shades of Grey.
I thought this was just an obscure joke,
but it's a not so obscure joke.
No, I'm going to read some out for you now.
There's a guy on work as an XK CD T-shirt.
And I keep hovering my mouse over to see if the additional second joke comes up.
No, I wouldn't be surprised if they, if they have the, the cans,
because they have all these interactive T-shirts now.
You, you get off of, was it, uh, thinking?
Think it.
Think it.
Think it.
Yeah.
I, uh, I heard Randall say that he didn't try and make the alt text jokes,
something that you needed to understand the original joke,
because he felt that a lot of people didn't know that they were alt text jokes,
which I wonder how true that is.
In the book, there's some quite good ones where, um,
he was talking about, uh, frustrations in Nintendo games.
And if you had, um, if you had your phone with you,
there were, um, QR codes all down the side of the,
uh, the, the, the main comic actually linking to points in the Nintendo game
that he found annoying.
It's really cool.
But does he have your old text jokes on those as well?
He, he puts them in in different ways.
He puts them in, um, the main comics in black and then sort of like an alt text is usually in red.
Um, and it's, uh, it's either a mathematical problem to sort of give you the punchline
or it's something like a QR code or it's binary or something like that.
It's really well done.
Some of them I just don't get.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I mean, I think, I think he sometimes thinks that his audience thinks the same way he does
and they delight in solving impossible math problems,
as much as he does and it's not always the case.
I still chuckle at the one that, and he was fairly recently,
but the up-goer or five, that one cracks me up.
Oh, I love that.
That, that was beautiful.
That one was, um, the other one that has taken a deep hold,
I even used it to, um, explain entropy and passwords was, was the, um,
correct, correct battery staple.
Yeah.
And, and that one holds a lot of weight.
That one does, uh, the more you go into it, correct horse battery staple.
Um, in fact, if, if you put that into, um, Google, um,
you only have to get as far as correct and then the H.O. on horse and it comes up
with correct horse battery staple.
I just put it in the chat for people listening.
How much do I have to type into Google as one of my favorite games also?
Yeah, it's a very good indicator of how popular something is, isn't it?
But, uh, yeah.
A genius guy.
And he's, he's, he's right.
So what, he's, what makes it funny?
I'm trying to get a cat off my back.
Get.
Get.
Thank you.
I had to, I had to explain the, um,
frequentest bazion, uh, joke to a guy I work with, uh,
because he didn't understand it.
And I was like, that's okay.
I barely understand this.
It is interesting to me that some of those comics can be so sincerely funny
to like us geeks and cis admins and things like that who,
who either understand what is being said or sort of,
at least know enough to kind of understand and think that they're just so
completely like it's just like another language to certain other people.
I think that's really, really interesting.
And I'm trying to think if there's other stuff in the real world that are,
is, that causes such a divide in like what people can even comprehend as
being, oh, that's a joke or not.
Low cats is probably a good example of that.
I mean, you are the like cat, so you don't.
And if you do like cats, you know,
you just play low cats.
Memes in general are actually a pretty good example of that because
people can be set up to be able to sort of interpret that intellectually
or not interpret that intellectually.
And they just don't understand it at all.
Yeah, memetic theories.
Have we got any strongly religious people in the room that I might offend
here?
I'm going to go ahead and say it anyway, but.
Yes, and you're respectively.
And the answer is to that question.
Right.
If you look in Richard Dawkins, the God delusion,
he goes into memetic theory as a possible strand of explanation for the
hilarity of religious doctrine.
And it's surprising what a strong argument it makes on that playing alone,
just being, you know, memes have very strong psychological influence on people.
I didn't think that was really much in contest that I didn't think that was
very contested that a lot of people view religions as memes.
And that's why there's the LOL cat Bible.
That's one of my favorite things.
Indeed, indeed.
Very interesting area of memetic theory.
I don't even know a good Android client to stream, to listen to the stream.
Can you use one amp?
Or BLC, can you use BLC?
For the standard ice cast, I've done better with Dolphin browser.
Don't want to install Dolphin.
And I think the standard Android browser as well.
Yeah, I'm trying that. I'm going to connect.
Yes, it's playing just a standard browser paste in the stream URL.
And now I'm going to have to stop talking because I don't want to hear myself.
You can no longer be a part of the hype mind.
And you won't be able to respond to this?
Yeah, that's satisfying.
I don't know what good to do.
I think the one's to mind is Sherry R.
There's five of them out there.
They're very, very similar.
Because they all look the same once and two of them.
So they're using a kit from somebody.
But as work, get it.
It takes a while to get down the menus.
You have to.
You're very hard to understand it.
You are clipping out real bad.
I have to get myself authenticated on this mobile app.
Actually, it's quite good, isn't it?
I'm pretty happy with her.
Yeah, I'm pretty happy with the audio quality.
And it's not evil.
And it's not evil.
You were saying something about Skype up a vex?
Yeah, it's better than Skype.
Hmm, it does seem so, doesn't it?
Yeah, as long as you don't need video.
Okay, so I've just got my friend Les Pounder.
Do you have everybody know Les Pounder?
Big Les P?
He's coming in.
It's a chief.
Yes, the chief.
He's coming in.
So when he comes in, if we all give him a nice big welcome.
I'm even going to put my electronics cigarette down for the random applause for this.
Going back to the comment about a lack of video.
I prefer to sit here and imagine what you all look like,
rather than actually knowing what you look like.
That's a scary thought.
Yeah, in my case, you've made a very wise choice.
You should just imagine me as a koala.
Are you saying my face doesn't complete your world?
I've seen your face.
Okay, so to answer Ken's question that was asked what feels like an hour or so ago.
Now, no, I do not have access to the door's ET computer that's streaming MP3.
Jonathan, I've got a question for you.
He must have felt sleeping.
Oh, Jonathan.
Mr. Nadu.
Is he there?
Mr. Photographer.
He'll be back.
He's probably getting coffee or something.
Can you get bacon sandwiches on Amazon Prime?
I'm so hungry, right?
You need to get yourself a wife to cut you some sausage sandwiches.
That's why I did try fill it.
I've got one of those.
She went and went down to the wildlife sanctuary to work in gay animals again.
I like the idea that you would have to get animals directly in the order where they would eat each other.
So you could have a consistent amount of animals.
No, it's very much more scattergum approach where they consent.
Do you reckon she could get me a monkey?
I love monkeys.
Like monkeys?
That's terrible.
I don't think we have a big natural population of monkeys in West Somerset here.
Oh, I thought it was like an animal sanctuary where you just sort of like taking animals.
Oh, it's a new bridge water so we could go down the pubs.
To be fair, we don't have a huge natural population of corn snakes.
So you would do it.
Natural, no.
Stupid things that were released into the wild by people who don't know how to take care of their pets.
Yes.
So if there is any monkeys that have stupid owners that can't look after them and they come your way, can I have first dibs?
You can have second dibs.
I dare say you should probably replace me with a monkey if one should come along.
I don't blame her.
Yeah, I'll send that up.
You knock him down.
Oh, John, the noise goes gone.
Oh.
Oh.
It's Jonathan there.
Are you there, Jonathan?
Hello.
Looks like he just reconnected.
He's in the lounge.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, is he trying to grab the chief?
I don't know.
I'm doing chatting to the chief.
He's on his way.
Mr. Nadu is back in the channel now for it.
Yeah, can you guys hear me now?
Hello.
So, Jonathan, a question for you.
How did you get on with your Debian remix?
It's definitely still in the worst.
It's considerably harder than how I had been building it.
So I'm still wrapping my head around it.
But I've failed miserably quite a few times.
Oh, well, at least you're giving it a go, though.
As the scene goes, feel or really feel often.
Yeah, I mean, once I get it down though,
this is definitely a much better way of building your distro
using the life-built system.
It's so much more control.
So I'm just trying to wrap my head around to all the control
that it gives you.
Yeah, definitely.
It's a bit of a...
Well, I found it to be quite a steep learning curve.
But once you sort of get the hang of it,
then it should be able to pick it up pretty quickly after that.
Yeah, once you get used to the system
and you figure out how to maneuver around it,
it's definitely a lot easier to use.
But once you first do it, it's like, oh, man.
What am I getting myself into?
Well, you remixing it for what you're doing?
I'm building it in my own canoe Linux distro called Sonar.
It's dedicated to accessibility.
So I've been creating the distro.
So the installer is accessible for blind people.
So a blind person can just install the distro
totally by themselves with no help at all.
And then I customize a lot of the applications within the distro
to have a lot of accessibility features,
like not just for blind people, not just for low-vision people,
but I include like on-screen keyboards
and predictive text software for people with low motor skills.
I include a font for people with dyslexia.
So if you switch the font, it'll move system wide
all the fonts for people with dyslexia
to help them with reading.
I also included a program where you can just take a...
any web cam as long as it loads inside of a Linux operating system.
You can track people's either eye movement
or even head movement to move the cursor around the screen.
So people in wheelchairs and stuff can move the cursor around the screen.
And then with the combination of the on-screen keyboard,
they can actually type stuff out or with the predictive text thing
they can move over their way around the computer.
Oh, I wish I had more hats, so I could doff the multi.
That is superb.
That's a great name for it, Sonar.
Yeah, yeah, I've been holding on to it for a while,
so I finally put some use.
The name is so good, in fact, that if you didn't do that,
I think I would have to.
Sorry to hear the text of speech was going off
and you were saying something.
The name is so good that if you didn't do that, I would have to.
I hear you.
I'm looking at getting the Argentinian domain name
so I can just have SON AR.
Yeah, it's great.
Keep up to date.
I'm sure all guys have Linux outlaws and Ubuntu
and a bunch of other people would love to publicize that as you progress with that.
Yeah, I hope to get on the outlaws and maybe a month or two or something.
I have a couple of versions right now.
I have versions on Ubuntu 1204, 1210,
and I have a Debian SID version right now,
and a Debian VZ version.
I managed to get the LXCE desktop accessible,
which is what I've been trying to do for quite some time,
because I think it's important to get LXCE accessible for people around the world,
because not everyone has a smoking machine to run all the latest desktops
and LXCE runs on very minimal hardware,
so I had now had that accessible to where a blind person can install a version of SON using LXCE
and it has all of the accessibility features within that also.
It's kind of a hack, though, because the LX panel isn't accessible.
So I included the GNOME panel, which is accessible,
so it's kind of a Frankenstein effort, but it works for right now.
Jonathan, I'm assuming you might have already said this.
I was stepping away, getting tea.
Are you basing this on GNOME 2 or GNOME 3, or both?
The classic ones are using GNOME 3, but it's in the fallback mode.
So it looks like GNOME 2, but it's GNOME 3 stuff, all GNOME 3 libraries.
I also have a GNOME Shell version.
What I did on the SON our classic version is I included GNOME 3 and fallback.
Fallback is set as the default desktop, but if you press CTRL-S at the login,
Oracle will start at the login, and you can switch desktops right from there,
so you can log in to either GNOME Shell or GNOME Classic on that version of SON our.
How do you know when you're at login to press CTRL-S?
When you get fit for blind users.
When you get to the login, it makes a SON our blip, and that lets you know you're at the login.
Nice.
Sweet.
The greatest advice I can offer you is to not put Amazon affiliate links in it.
I ripped it all out.
Yeah, Popeye's gone, hasn't he?
Yeah, he probably left right before we got to that.
Good stuff.
I was also going to say make sure the close and minimize buttons are off to the right,
because if you can't see that they've been moved to the left, how are you ever going to find?
What do you mean move to the left? That's where they belong.
It's enough out of you, Mack Boy.
It's X-Max Boy, do you?
We're not going to have a religious debate, so we...
Deepkeep, take us to a coffee.
E-Max.
It's always E-Max.
Nano.
Bye, bye.
All the way, man.
I prefer a low pad.
You just love typing, don't you, Black Crow?
Yeah, I love the keystrokes.
See, the problem with me is that if you...
I've tried to switch back and forth between E-Max and Vim, because I have nothing against Vim.
But whenever I have to use Vim, then when I go back to E-Max, I just can't stop...
I can't get my fingers to go back into the other mode.
Like, I don't have that capability to switch back and forth.
See, everyone says you always have to use Vim. No, Vy.
I go back to old school, Vy.
You got to be kidding me. Vy is horrible.
I use Ed.
But it's...
Ed.
But it's small and it's always there.
Yeah, that's true.
Yeah, and that goes back to the administrators type thing.
You want the tool that's actually available everywhere to you.
And Vy is always there.
And actually, especially on Linux systems, it's actually generally just Vim anyway.
So it's just Vim without some of the extension packages.
I'm just fine. They get in the way.
No, I don't know. I mean, the thing how Vy doesn't...
What does it do? It doesn't delete until you...
There's something weird how it deletes.
Like, if you delete to the end of the line in Vy,
it doesn't actually remove the characters till you start typing or something.
It always throws me off.
I forget some big difference between Vy and Vim that always throws me.
But otherwise, yeah, they feel pretty much the same.
For me, it's just a case of...
You have to actually think about what you're deleting before you delete it,
which just fits as a good idea for me.
Well, in Emax, you have to do that too,
because it takes you about eight keystrokes to actually delete anything.
So about the sixth keystroge or so,
if you have changed your mind, you can always cancel.
Yeah, I think it's two or three keystrokes with Vy, isn't it?
I use Emax for exactly one thing,
and that is making ASCII art a veteran installment.
Oh, man, I wish I knew that.
I could use that for some show notes that you'd recently.
Yeah.
It's pretty great.
I got the beard with pipes and Vs.
That's how I did the beard.
It's pretty proud of that.
Did you guys see the sort of breakdown he had at the Spanish conference?
No.
Yeah, I heard about that.
Actually, it wasn't a big deal.
He had like a panic attack or something.
Yeah.
That seems about right now.
Yeah, they call them medics or something,
and it turned out to be just nothing.
It does count as coming.
It does sound like it kind of goes wind on just a little bit too tight.
I hope he's going to make a big entrance.
So let's just go on to game.
What was that?
Big less the chief.
Oh, okay.
Hey, it's just, I'm going to take this moment while I'm at least talking.
I need to shout to Ken Fallon.
We're having some trouble with the org stream.
And we think we need to change where it's coming from,
because I cannot get into doors computer.
Hi, Lez.
Hi, Becky.
Hello, Lez.
Hi, Lez.
Nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
I feel humble.
I hope you got your hit class full.
Unfortunately, there's been a shortage of crack in this Christmas.
And I'm being forced to drink, say, the Jerry.
Philip got some Mount Gay from his mum.
What?
Mount Gay.
Okay, Kevin was bringing up another stream there.
I'm glad you said that was rum and not a verb.
Hi, Lez.
Hey.
Hey.
Hey.
Woo-hoo.
After doing everyone.
How the devil are you?
Thanks, Ken.
I just posted the video where Richard Stalin sort of freaks out in the chat.
Hello, another nice Christmas.
Lovely Christmas, thank you.
Yes, we've had a brilliant Christmas.
Hey, you've had a really geeky Christmas.
Lez, tell us what you've been doing.
Thanks, Phil.
Great interview.
It's been extremely geeky Christmas this year.
And namely because I've got a Raspberry Pi on Christmas Day.
One of the 9512 boards.
I've also managed to get my hands on it.
A very cheap and very remarkable tablet.
An ARCOS 80 co-volts.
And Android 4.0.
And using the Raspberry Pi and the tablet together made a media center.
The living room, which is now streaming all of our video and music around the house.
And it's fantastic.
And it's sold on the open source software, which I'm really happy about.
Sweet.
Very sweet.
Siss Admin genius.
Hush.
Siss Admin.
Yeah.
Have you managed to get what you're using as your media center software on the Pi?
Rasp.
BMC.
Have you got any TV cards to work with that at all?
Not yet.
No, that's next on the list.
What to do that?
I'll also need an aerial upgrade for the house.
Have you?
Yes.
I've seen that.
I was doing a bit of Pi hacking last couple of days.
And that's why I asked because I've tried using it and I realised I didn't have my back end set up properly and I haven't got as far as setting it up yet, so in the market for some help on that.
on a blog called the digital lifestyle.com. The guy on there, he's managed to use the Raspberry
Pi and some back-ends TV wizardry. So basically have a fully functional PVR from Raspberry
Pi.
Very nice.
How was the URL? Can you paste it into the chat room, please?
Yeah, I'll find it now, bear with me.
Yes, please, Liz. Thank you.
Oh, we had Mr. Cannon. Mr. Disconnected.
I don't think you'd get any audio, so he's disconnected.
Oh.
Could have a round of booze when he arrives.
It's too early for booze here. I'm still trying to finish my first coffee.
Sorry, boo, as in, boo. Yes, I know.
But I'm bum.
Come on, Paul, you can throw some bellies in that coffee.
Is the bar open? Is it time to get the alcohol out?
You see, some podcasts they actually have, you know, sound boards and that for real rim shots.
Here, we just do it manually, the old-fashioned way.
Yeah, Becky, it's New Year's Eve somewhere.
If there was a soundboard for that, we would have used old Greg for the bellies.
It's New Year's Eve in Adelaide and Broken Hill, two minutes ago.
Happy New Year, Adelaide and Broken Hill.
What are the 30 minutes off? How does that work?
Yeah, it's, um, the previous one was much of Australia and five more, I don't know,
well, the five more, but Australia, they're lucky because they have like four or five different time zones.
You have it to usually 60 minutes apart. It's, it's on the half hour right now.
Yeah, some of the time zones are half hour off.
Yeah, it's worse than us than down in Australia with five time zones.
A guy's, I need to go away for an hour. Is that okay?
No, what are you going to be doing?
Going to second grammar, which is equivalent to being cute.
Oh, you're nice.
Which is the equivalent of what would it be in the States, some DIY shop?
What, like, on deep bars?
Yeah, home deep.
Yeah. I must tell you some of my stories about my adventures with power tools.
I'll still be listening on the, on the, on my mobile phone until I go in there because they turn,
they have 3G disruptors in there so that you can't bring your wife to ask her if she should buy this or not.
All right, so remember, just keep talking about Ken because eventually he has to go in the store and won't be listening.
Are you going on that?
Shouldn't we wait until he goes in the store and then start talking about him?
No, no, because I want the people there to be amused as he walks back and forth towards the entrance debating whether he should, you know, commit to going in or stay outside and listen to what we're saying.
We should be shouting things like this man buys his kids fireworks.
She's in here to borrow his kids' power tools.
Stop him, stop him.
My wife said stop pulling the piss.
That's really going to stop us, you know, red rag to a bull.
I think my job to pull the piss.
Is that pull the piss?
Is that like a, you know, could we say take the piss here?
All the pisses I wish I didn't hit would be.
We don't say take the piss in America at all.
That was a great experience when I first heard that expression through, like, to a German English dictionary.
We didn't know what the hell was going on.
I feel we should bring that to America.
Take the Mickey.
What's that? What would you say Becky?
So what would you say instead then?
Like for teasing someone or making fun of someone.
Yes.
Yeah, teasing or making fun of maybe ragging on them.
I don't think we all say taking the piss.
Not, well, not all of us, I don't think.
No, but you're on the what it means.
True.
Yeah, we've most people here have never even heard it.
What you need to buy yourself, Pokey, is a publication from the UK called Rogeis for Fanosaurus.
Hey, you need that for Fanosaurus.
Or just go on Urban Dictionary.
The Fanosaurus is fantastic.
Come on, it's better than Urban Dictionary.
It is the master work.
I'm going to go and look for that on Amazon now.
It's filled its birthday soon.
Oh, yeah, you need a pro-Fanosaurus.
I was trying to find one to explain to all the American people in
Tekken Coffee the other day, what pro-Fanosaurus was.
And it's a thick book.
It runs to 620 pages worth of filth.
And I could only find one that was even came close to meeting their usual agreement.
What a surprise.
He gets four and a half stars out of five on good reads.
Oh, you know, Becky, you ought to be careful about giving your husband a book like that.
Because if my wife gave me that book the next year of her life would be, can we try this?
Can we try that?
Oh, I wish my husband would say that to me.
Hang on, it's not the Karma Sutra.
Well, it might be living in middle school.
Sorry, I'm just reading it now.
For example, there's one here, which I think I can broadcast entry.
Techies, perks, noun, whilst fixing a mates PC,
taking the opportunity to search his hard drive for photographs of his misses in highly
compromising positions.
Ah, yes.
The old mic computer going to see and typing in dot JPG.
That's passed on the operating procedure.
Isn't it for a fix?
Absolutely.
These days you go looking for videos instead, don't you?
Yeah, dot, dot MPG probably.
What do you, what do cameras take these days?
Camcorders dot MPG probably.
My takes VHS.
That would be cool.
MTS.
Oh, yeah, it is MTS, right?
Poki, you moved up.
I thought you were still on beta, Max.
Yeah, well, I got a hand me down.
I burn all mine to laser disc.
That's quite nice one.
Thought, Rob, a low grade hunk who is unaccountably alluring to ladies
from lower echelons, e.g. Peter Andre or Rubsan Green.
The ones that are cleaning and readable at this time of day are good,
but the better ones are the ones I just pure filth and you cannot broadcast.
Well, what's funny is that even even a book from England about vulgarity
sounds to us Americans very actually like lots of big words and fancy ways of
saying things echelons.
I mean, that's just not how we talk over here.
It's very area-dyte filth.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, I've found a beauty, a tordry Hepburn, a fine-bone porcelain skin beauty
who, on closer inspection, is revealed to be cheaply constructed and poor quality.
That was the best possible example that you could have given us.
Yeah, we'd pay top dollar over here for that kind of thing.
Let's see if we can find any more broad-castle ones.
What about Black Crow, low-resolution fox?
A woman who, from a distance, appears alluring, but on closer inspection, is a minga.
Is this where I put my feminist hat on and start ragging on your own now?
Yeah, ragging might be the one for one, don't worry.
I must admit, the selection is pretty difficult when you're looking at a publication from Viz.
Many years ago, when I worked for the government, we used to have a call centre and a whiteboard
and a copy of the panasaurus.
Absolutely.
That used to write a word of the day from the panasaurus on the board.
Excellent.
How did you get away with that?
It was in the early days of the concert centre being created and they didn't really care,
as long as the job was done.
Someone didn't take you to equality for that.
I did write it on the board.
I might not have a duck fit at that.
I think we're call centre staff.
It's really is between 19 and 26, the average age of members of staff.
So they're all wanting a good time and a laugh rather than how many years is it until my pension.
I'm the youngest one of the youngest in my office and I'm the manager.
You mean to say, Becky, that they wouldn't appreciate switchcraft.
The magical ability of one to take incredible amounts of cash disappearing to thin air world,
stout shopping.
No.
That's the best.
They're all ladies of a certain age in my office.
Oh, I see.
I just got that.
That took me a while to get that one.
Switchcraft.
Okay.
There you go.
Wait.
This switch even exists anymore.
I don't know what it does.
I thought I got replaced by Visa.
Oh, is it the name of a credit card company?
Yeah.
Sorry.
I thought I jumped in there.
Completely over our heads.
Yeah.
And not so bluntly explain it to the Americans on the line.
It was a debit card in the UK, I think, a while ago.
I actually know this because of some old British television I would watch.
Did they have awful commercials where they went, it's time to switch.
To switch.
No.
Maybe we like that here.
Yeah, I feel like those commercials every 15 minutes for six weeks.
I feel like advertising is so much better everywhere else in the world.
We have us.
We had a spate of the master card adverts.
You know, for everything else in the world, it's priceless.
We had a big spate of those adverts.
I hated those.
I have no idea how those ever caught on.
The best adverts were the Bartley card ones with Mr. Bean, Rowan Atkinson.
Yeah, I'd probably watch a commercial with him in it because he's so hilarious.
Probably no matter what he's doing.
He's really old and grumpy now.
Oh, is he?
Really?
Wow, all in grumpy Mr. Bean.
From what I've seen to him, he seems to only be not funny when he's doing comedy.
Yeah, he's not overly funny.
I think he's more popular outside of the UK than he is in the UK.
That's why when he came on for the Olympics,
I think he was on the Olympic opening ceremony.
I think everybody in the UK said what the fuck is he doing there?
But everybody else in the world loves him apparently, so I don't know.
I never liked him.
I thought he was just a guy who made faces.
I don't know.
I just thought I didn't get it.
Yeah, no, that's pretty much it, I think.
There's a one-trip pony real, isn't it?
He doesn't have a huge range.
He's black-out or black-out or black-out?
Oh, yeah, but a totally different character to Mr. Bean.
Yes, yes.
Okay, we're talking about Mr. Bean or...
Yeah, Mr. Bean.
Oh, okay, fine.
I thought we were talking about Roland Atkinson.
Yes, sort of.
Yes, same here.
Yeah, because black-out is hilarious.
Yeah, I didn't think so.
I saw a couple of them and just didn't get it, I guess.
Okay, get him off the line now.
Who else here has Adlin, right?
Just not everybody, geez.
So, Jonathan, I got to ask you a question I've been meaning to for a while.
I didn't get to jump in when you were talking before.
Why did you feel the need to create Sona?
Or what was wrong with...
I don't remember the name of the one now.
Vinix?
Say again?
Vinix?
No, Vinix.
Is that what you're thinking of?
No, not even Vinix.
Ruben Rodriguez, one heap but together.
Oh, just go.
Just go.
I'm actually before you answer that.
Why would it not be better just to work mainstream and have a flow into all the distros?
Because I've been trying to do things like that for a while and Ruben's been the first success in that.
But I wanted to take it even farther.
Like, Ruben did make the install accessible, which is awesome.
And the way he did it is really fantastic because it doesn't get in the way if you don't need the accessibility.
But I've been including a lot more accessible stuff.
And a lot of other distros will be like, well, you know, we don't want to include that because everyone's going to use it.
Or, you know, so I tailored it to be specifically for people that need accessible software.
So if you need to have any type of accessibility needs, I would say install Sona.
Because it's going to be geared towards specifically that.
I mean, a person that doesn't need accessible stuff obviously could install it.
But they'd probably either remove a lot of stuff to lead it off stuff or install a lot of stuff that isn't in there for them.
So, you know, I've been trying to work with like Fedora and like, you know, Ubuntu, you know, with the whole move to Unity.
A lot of the stuff as far as that is still pretty broken.
You know, when they first introduced Unity, it was completely inaccessible, which is understandable, because it's a totally new desktop or whatever.
So they introduced the Unity 2D, which they were pushing, you know, for that for accessibility.
Then they decided to kill off Unity 2D.
And whatever accessibility fixes one to that or thrown out the window.
And then now you're back to an inaccessible Unity 3D.
And so, you know, obviously Ubuntu is going down the Unity road.
So, and pretty much only Ubuntu uses Unity, obviously.
I mean, other distros have tried to, you know, make it installable or work.
But I guess a lot of other distros have been problem with getting Unity working.
So, you know, you'd be able to cover a lot more ground working with like GNOME or I've been working, I've gotten a hold of the XFCE maintainer and LXCE maintainer.
And both of them are, right now, making Thunar accessible, PC Man FM accessible, and also working on making the panels accessible.
So, once they do that, then XFCE and LXCE will be totally accessible also.
So, then I have three major desktops that would be accessible and give choice to people that, you know, won't blind and low vision users.
If you can see, then, you know, every desktop is basically accessible.
But I think I might have lost Koki's first question now.
No, no, you answered it in there. That's cool. Thank you.
And just before we go any further, anybody who's listening to this does not throw in $2 a month.
This is a great New Year's resolution that you can do $2 a month to the Accessible Computing Foundation.
And that automatically buys you a waiver for HPR for 2012.
No, I think you can.
Which you're also a member in. Thank you for that.
Thank you, please.
Did you notice the waiver was for 2012 or not for 2012?
Yeah, for retrospective.
Nice, nice waiver.
So, you know what I was going to say is, I think it's nice that Jonathan's actually basically leading by example.
You know, he's putting something out there that actually does what people need as far as being enabled.
And that's the thing that hopefully we'll actually catch on in the rest of the community.
Is that example that he is setting for them?
Well, in theory, having a distro that is configured up front to be entirely accessible should be even...
I mean, it really kind of is better than anything else that any other operating system offers right now, I think.
Because even on like Windows, you have to buy a JAWS.
And so you need a sighted user to install JAWS.
So, I think that's pretty powerful stuff.
Yeah, I mean, eventually, I'd like to build sort of a framework where distributions, if they were interested in making their distribution totally accessible, they could follow a framework.
And, you know, if they follow the framework, 90% of their distro would be accessible.
And, you know, the focus of Sonar, again, is if you depend on accessibility, you install Sonar, you're going to have everything you need out of the box.
Like, you know, yeah, you could install for door.
But, oh, you know, what's the program that I need for the on-screen keyboard?
And it's kind of like what Clot 2 says where, you know, Fedora and Ubuntu and OpenSus or whatever.
Sure, you can get into the point that Sonar is at.
But if you don't know what you're looking for or if you need help to install it or whatever, then that's just more time being taken up, you know, getting everything set up.
So, Sonar, everything's ready to go out of the box once you install and reboot.
You're ready to go. You already have the font for dyslexia and on-screen keyboard and the program with the webcam tracking.
All that stuff is ready to go. You don't need to hunt anything down and install it.
I meant to ask earlier, John, have you got any plans to make an arm distro so that there's a possibility of making it a Raspberry Pi compatible?
Yeah, I was going to look at Raspbian pretty soon to see if I could kind of like respin that or whatever.
It comes with LXD, I think, for desktop, doesn't it?
Yes, it does.
So, since I've been able to get LXD accessible, well, I guess before I go that far, do you know, is it using like Davin Weezy or Squeeze?
Do you know what they're using for?
Weezy.
Okay, so there should be a pretty good chance that I can get LXD accessible on that.
I can't remember what version of LXD I need.
But, yeah, I was thinking about that a couple weeks ago, I would like to check that out and see if I could get that running.
I mean, that just opens up the possibility for low-cost physical devices on a massive scale, in fact.
Yeah, that was my whole push for getting LXD accessible, like I was saying earlier, it's because, you know, people around the world would be able to, you know, throw this on six, seven, eight-year-old computers and have something to work with.
You know, there's a billion people in the world with some type of disability, and so that's why I'm so-nars focused on those one billion people.
But, you just, the possibilities are endless here, aren't they?
I have, Jonathan, I have so many questions about how the workflow of Sonar would work, though, even if you are trying to get someone to figure out how to install it without sight.
Like, how do you cue them to follow the prompts or anything without them being notified in advance of how some of that stuff works?
Well, on the website, sonar-project.org, there's a quick guide thing, so you can click on that and just look at it real quick, it gives you a rundown of the different variations of a sonar, it kind of gives you a quick, like, here's what to expect.
So, like, say, if you use the GNOME Shell version, the menu you put in the disk and it boots off of it right away, you'll hear the sound for Sonar logging in, and then you'll hear Orcas start talking right away.
And if you read the Quick Start guide, you'll see, like, okay, if I press the Windows key and just type install, the installer comes up, press Enter, and then it just walks through the ubiquity installer that, you know, Ubuntu has made, and I mean, you don't really need any, I mean, it's all understandable what you have to do through the installer at that point.
So, it's pretty straightforward. The Debian one's a little trickier. It's a Debian installer that I'm using right now. It's accessible, but the problem is, is it doesn't, it'll tell you that you're in a text box, but it doesn't tell you what the text box is for.
So, in the Quick Start guide, I mapped all of it out, like, okay, this next part, you'll see four blank text boxes. The first one is a root password, the second one is confirm your root password. So, I laid that all that out, and the Quick Start guide for the Debian install.
Interesting. These are problems that you've solved that I would never would have thought of to attack that way, even, because they're so different.
That's another good thing about Sonar too, because, I mean, like, so often, at least in my life, the blind users that I am talking to Linux about, I mean, like, a lot of there, even though, like, one of them is my mother, and I know her pretty well, I still just have, and I've lived with her my entire life, I still don't know exactly what she needs out of a computer.
So, someone like Jonathan coming in and saying, hey, this is what a blind user really needs, like, actually needs. That's really helpful to me, because that takes the burden of trying to kind of, like, interview the user and say, okay, well, what do you expect when you sit down at a computer? What would feel natural to you to make it work this way? It's just all there, and I don't have to figure that out myself, so that's much appreciated.
Yeah, again, that's why I love having LXD accessible now, it's because, you know, obviously, as blind people, I could care less how pretty Gnome show is, I could care less how, like, you know, the whizzing effects on the desktop, I want speed and performance, and that's kind of the reason why I make the fallback mode and Gnome the default desktop, because it's just really fast, and it still gives you all the latest libraries and stuff like that.
And, you know, again, with LXD, it's just blazing fast with sonar using LXD, it's just, you know, you can use, like I said, I have a five or six-year-oldish laptop, it's like a original kind of like, it's like a T5500, so I don't even think it's a core 2-dual processor, but, I mean, it flies using the LXD version and the fallback mode, so I'm using a six-year-old computer and it's blazing fast.
Six years old, that's practically new, what are you talking about?
Well, you know, I'm just saying, like, for here in the States, I would almost say that's old for people, I mean, everyone I know is like getting laptops every one or two years is kind of crazy.
No, it's newer than anything I own, brother.
I have the computer museum in my loft, that's where they go to die in this house.
You have one of those, too.
Jonathan, I'm just imagining you reading the Ubuntu forums and seeing people complain about Compass, and you're like, what is this shit?
And just completely, like, it has nothing to do with you at all, and they just complain and you just don't care, because it doesn't matter at all, to your experience.
Yeah, exactly. The only thing that's good about Compass is, there's an awesome magnification thing for low-vision users, so I set that up by default for low-vision users.
I set up a bunch of hotkeys, so if you read the Quick Guide, you'll see all the hotkeys, and so they can boot in the sonar, click a couple of hotkeys and boom, magnification is up and running.
I really like the Compass magnification, I've used that myself.
Sounds like you thought of most things there.
I've got a question for you, in terms of accessibility. How does a NomeFree stack up against Unity? I know you already said that Unity's not brilliant, but what's NomeFree-like in comparison?
NomeFree is really looking really good, especially 3.8 that they're kind of pushing on.
Now I did a quick install of a 1304 just to check out NomeFree.8, and this looking really good.
I would almost say it's almost like 100% accessible now. They've really gotten it back to where Nome2 was before they ditched Nome2.
Yeah, that's good to hear.
Do you think that's a quality that you get in a free software project like the Nome Foundation that maybe canonical as a commercial organization less interested in the accessibility because of their needing to make money?
Yeah, actually, someone asked me a question like that for they want to interview me for like LWN. He wrote me a bunch of questions, and I kind of got to that with like he was asking kind of like, why didn't I work closer with Ubuntu for Sonar or whatever.
Ubuntu only has so many employees. They've got a few people working on accessibility, but at the end of the day, like you said, their canonical is a for-profit company. They're looking to make money, and if there's a deadline, unfortunately accessibility gets pushed back if something else needs to go forward.
So it's not that they don't care about accessibility. It's just they have limited time, limited resources, and they can only get so much done in the time that they're working.
And I've heard recently that they're really not even going to push for any sort of accessibility improvements or whatever, only on each long term support.
So anything in between that, it seems like they're not really going to do a whole lot of moving accessibility forward. Like they'll do some things or whatever, but they're not going to be a huge focus in between all of the long term supports.
Yeah, that's pretty much what I thought. So I think it just highlights how important an organization that the known foundation is.
Yeah, yeah, they've definitely, you know, they keep accessibility in the forefront. Unfortunately, there's been a couple of things recently that they've kind of had to kill or like the one thing that's a little upsetting for me is they killed off the known fallback session.
Now, it's still in Ubuntu 1304, but it's an older version. It's like the 3.6 instead of 3.8. It's a little disappointing because I mean, no shell is great. 3.8 is fantastic.
But even on my computer, it's like a little not laggy, but if you press the Windows key, it takes, you know, 10 seconds for the box to come up.
You type something in, it takes another 5 or 7 seconds to fill in. So it's not as quick as the fallback mode. I can in the fallback mode, I can launch stuff, you know, as soon as I type it in.
But on GNOME 3, you know, it could be just, you know, me being picky. But like I said, it's just a little laggy. And, you know, like I said, as a blind user, I could care less what it looks like. I want performance.
So that's why it's a little disappointed that they were killing advancements with the fallback session.
I'm really surprised that they would do that. Do you happen to know what their reasoning was?
A lack of, you know, help and things like that. They're just figuring it's, you know, it's easier to continue to work on the shell than spread resources and work on the fallback session.
As long as they keep packaging it, I mean, there really doesn't need to be any sort of advancements with the fallback session. It just gives you the two panels like the old GNOME 2.
So I mean, even as long as like, you know, distros keep packaging it, I think it's probably fine.
I don't see where it would be a problem if they don't keep, you know, advancing it. The 3.6 fallback sessions sticks around. I think that'll be fine.
Oh, I thought you meant they killed it off like it no longer existed as an option.
Yeah, yeah. First, I thought that is what they meant, but they're just stopping development. So that probably makes sense.
The, because the fallback session exists before mate really took hold. So do you think sort of like now that mate is, because I think Fedora in their latest release there, they've going to have mate in all their repositories and stuff.
So I think it's quite, it's quite popular and maybe they've stopped developing because they think, well, you know, if people want the old classic interface, they can use mate.
And it's a waste of our time carrying on developing the fallback mode.
Well, they have been there Western Australia and all those are the guys.
Happy New Year, Australia. Happy New Year. Happy New Year to the rest of Australia. Happy 2011.
Yeah, exactly.
Sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt Jonathan.
Now, as I say, they introduced fallback because of the whole 3D acceleration. If computers didn't support the 3D acceleration, it would go into fallback by default, like on its own.
But no, Michelle introduced the thing that Fedora had made, which unit is also taking advantage of, which I cannot think of what it's called off the top of my head.
And basically does the 3D rendering within the processor now. It offloads it to the processor, which is fine.
But I mean, if you're on a machine that I can't handle 3D acceleration, chances are that things could have bogged down your processor to produce the rendering.
So that's, I believe, why GNOME was killing fallback because they're implementing that now into GNOME shell.
What was that?
I'm sorry, Registik. Jonathan, can I ask you, did you mention where you can find Sonar?
Sonar-project.org.
Okay, because I have quite a few older pieces of equipment that I'm going to try to install it on.
And I'll see if I can document installation on the older pieces hardware.
Awesome. Yeah, definitely. Appreciate it.
I think the software that will accelerate the graphics using the processor is LLVM pipe.
Yes, that's it. Yes, that's what they're using.
How has Cinnamon and Mate integrated into your accessibility research?
Cinnamon unfortunately is completely inaccessible and Mate doesn't, as far as I knew last time I checked, Mate doesn't include any sort of accessibility stack within the desktop.
Have you tested it out, Simon 0.4?
I want to. I haven't had the time or resources to get up and running.
But it seems it takes a little bit of effort to kind of get up and running, but it seems impressive when you do have it up and running.
What is Simon?
Simon is, I think it's in the KDE project now, but it's a voice recognition software.
So I know the last time I spoke with Aaron Saigo, he said that the chess game that was in the KDE by default, you could actually play the chess game with your voice using Simon on the back end.
So you can play the chess game totally without even touching the keyboard or anything.
You could just speak your moves and I want to play the game.
Very nice, very cool.
Yeah, that's kind of the last piece of the puzzle for me is I really want to get Simon into Sonar.
And then I almost have every kind of spectrum of accessibility covered where you could use Simon to maneuver through the menus.
You could say like applications, internet, Firefox, and boom, it will bring you online.
And then you can actually navigate the links and everything also using Simon.
And then you can play and pause audio or video, you can open up Libra Office Writer and dictate text to it.
It can do a lot of stuff, but like I said, there's a little bit of effort to actually get it.
Everything configured and up and running, which I haven't been able to get to yet.
You can also control the mouse.
I think they have a system where it cuts the screen up into a grid.
And they'll have like one, two, three, four for each of the four corners.
And then you say the number and then it goes into that grid and cuts it up again.
And you go through that until you actually get the mouse to where you want it.
That's cool.
Yeah, definitely.
Do you have any experience using Simon?
It sounds like you get a little bit about it.
I haven't used it yet.
I was just following the project.
I just have the release announcements on my feet.
I was reading that.
Yeah, like I said, it's pretty impressive.
I just haven't had the time to like really get it set up.
Has anybody used Rockbox?
Clock 2 does.
Are you used to it?
I use it not for accessibility if that's where you're headed.
No, that's not.
Yeah, use it all the time.
Yeah, use it every day.
I just got it set up on my cheap clip zip.
I've been pretty happy.
Put Doom on it.
Yeah, I've got mine on a clip plus, the one that's older than the zip.
I had the clip plus, but for some reason the clip broke and then the power button broke.
Hey, Poke, I heard that audio drama that you were on.
That was pretty cool.
Oh, this thing of ours?
Yeah, it was pretty cool.
Yeah, things a lot of fun.
I don't know how much longer my character has.
Oh, really?
Do you get to give us any insights on the what's going to come up next?
No, I actually don't know.
I just, I don't know.
It just doesn't seem like he's going to last too much longer.
Well, it seems like you're that guy's right-hand man.
So if he takes over, then I'd assume you'd have a pretty important role.
Yeah, I don't know how much to say because I can't remember how much is aired and how much I've only recorded.
Yeah, the last episode I listened to, which was a couple of weeks ago.
I don't know if they put up a new one, but it seemed like right at the end he killed, you know, the older boss.
And like that new boss, you know, that new guy is going to step in and seems like.
Oh, okay, yeah.
All right, well, no, I can't say nothing.
What's this then, Pokey?
It's an audio drama.
It's like a old, like mob type of a story, like from the 70s or early 80s.
I'm like, I knew York Mafia type thing.
Radio drama.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The shadow knows.
What's that?
Like the arches.
Oh, I don't know that one.
I'm sorry.
No, it's more like a play, I guess.
Like just a story where people act out their parts, but it's just an audio drama.
Is there a link for it?
I bet there is.
Let me try and find it for you.
I'm always after you things to listen to on the car on the way to work.
Don't you listen to Pokey enough?
You can't get enough of Pokey.
If my wife were here, she'd agree with your buddy.
Oh, you know what, Becky?
You're in luck because not only do I have a link, but the most recent post is a casting call.
I don't know if he's still looking for actors or actresses, but that would be pretty cool too.
I'm sat here shaking my head, no, and my husband's across the table going, yeah.
I like to volunteer my wife for all sorts of things.
All right, I just posted the link in the mumble chat in the IRC chat.
Thank you, got it.
I'll have to look up Profanosaurus in the...
...for actress.
That brings me back to something actually.
We have a listener, a female listener called Hannah, who goes online by also the name Ultra Turquoise.
And I think actually Black Crow and Big Les P need to send out a massive apology for all of the sexist remarks that they were making.
And Bobo Bex needs to send out an apology for encouraging sexist remarks.
Yeah, she did say that on Google Plastic.
She just said typical, the one time that she starts to join in, we're doing all the feminism stuff.
Well, she should come in and just stop the whole thing, I mean, that's what I'm in the way to do it.
I think she's listening on a stream.
She's not alone either, we've got a bunch of people listening on the streams.
Well, Hannah, if you're out there, join us.
Come and play Hannah, put your knitting down and come and join us.
Maybe the feminist version of the bad signal came up and you know, it's signaled her.
And that's how she knew.
Come and tell us off, we need to be told off.
You guys sound so creepy right now.
That's just Black Crow.
Tell us off.
Normal, normal.
Yeah, Black Crow, I can sense a chewing in your direction mate.
What like a proper George Bush chewing?
No, the foot will still be attached.
Oh, all right.
And it's not going at anybody's head.
It's going elsewhere.
It's indiscriminate, it'll just hit any part of the body.
It's a big lesbian, Mr. Chief.
Can you tell us what I'm tech events are we've got planned for this year, please?
I'm just looking up chewing in from Fennosaurus now.
Well, Becky tech events.
There's one that I can say about which is in the UK.
It's the Raspberry Jamboree which is in March this next year, 2013.
That's been run by Alan O'Donohue, technical teacher on Twitter.
And it's going to be the largest Raspberry Pi event in the UK.
Close to 340 people should be attending.
Wow, that's impressive.
For the UK it is.
It's going to be a big venue and a hell of a lot of things going on on that day.
It's still to be confirmed as to what's going on because Adam likes to play things close to his chest.
But I have heard talk, it's going to be a conference with some fringe elements to it
where people can get their hands dirty with Raspberry Pi's.
I have to get my hands on one of those.
I have one.
I'm just trying to figure out a use.
I have the old 256 Meg Memory 1.
Is there a big performance improvement with the 512 Meg RAM one?
Not really, I've got a 256 and a 512 and I can't see much difference.
I mean using RaspbMC, most of the work's been done by the GPU, so it was big.
So that's doing all the work for me.
So RAM-wise, it can get a little slow when it's pulling a lot of feeds,
which is a list of MP3s from a hard drive for a network connection.
But nothing majorly, no real difference.
Mind you, that might get better with tuning.
If you've got a bit more latitude for tuning, the split between GPU memory and CPU memory,
you could probably get better performance out of the 512 with the tweaking.
You can change the config file part here at the start, so it changes the split of the RAM.
I think the standard Raspbian installation gives you the option to change the split on install.
So there is somewhere buried away.
There's a little utility for changing that as the default setting.
Once you've DDD the image across to an SD card and run it for the first time,
it'll ask you what you want to do, how to partition the drive, how to overclock,
and change your RAM settings.
You can do it manually as well.
It picks in the root as a boot folder, and you can change one of the files in there.
It's got a predetermined ratio for the RAM between CPU and GPU.
Isn't that under the Raspbian config folder, I think?
Yeah, I was going to say that.
Yeah, I want to use mine with my Roku.
I want to put Plex.
I don't know if anybody's heard of it, but I want to put a Plex over on that,
and then use that with the Roku.
Does anybody try to use it as a server?
I want to see.
Raspberry Pi.
I use my Raspberry Pi as a proxy server, so that I can...
Well, at work I've got some sort of crazy filter thing,
so I can't go on to YouTube or Facebook.
Not that I want to go on to Facebook, but occasionally you need to.
And so I SSH into my Raspberry Pi home and run a proxy through that.
Sox5 proxy through Firefox.
That's a cool use.
Yeah, I thought so.
I mean, to be honest, I got the Raspberry Pi all camp and had it for a while,
and was sort of struggling for ideas of what to use it for.
And so I didn't.
It just sort of sat on my desk for a while.
And then I started this new job and figured that I really needed some sort of proxy server.
And I looked around the web for free ones and stuff,
and I was just thought, well, I'll just set it up myself in the end,
and so I did that.
And it works brilliantly, to be fair.
Corn Amino, you need to make Crunch Pi.
No, there's a chap out there that's already done a sort of like spin-off.
He's done the Pi Bank.
I've not tried it myself, but I hear good things.
Nice.
Let's get you Profanasaurus out and look up shoebox special.
Well, do bear with me.
I'm just on PiBangLinux.org at the moment,
looking at CrunchBang for the Raspberry Pi.
I think to do with us, that's the disclaimer.
Oh, we're well versed in a disclaimer.
I've had a chat with Phil about this over many hours on Google Talk.
It has nothing to do with you.
A lot of does it. It's done by another team.
Yeah, no, I mean, I've been chatting with the guy that does it,
and you know, good luck to him.
But I'll just, too much on my plate at the moment,
to be, to be involved, so, but I wish him the best,
and I hope it takes off for him.
So, talking of Raspberry Pi's,
what do you think, because it took me ages.
I didn't really want one for a long time,
and then Becky bought me one at Oddcamp,
because I just couldn't figure out what the magic was with them.
What do you think it is?
Cost. I'm sorry.
Cost is the responsibility that you can throw at it.
Something that might destroy it,
you can hack away to your heart's content,
and if you break it, no problem.
And the point is everybody has a use.
It's way below the spouse purchase level,
so you can buy enough of them.
No, the wife's purchase level.
No, seriously, but I mean, you can kind of say,
if you save up a few coffees for a week,
you have enough to buy one.
And everybody sees it as a...
Everybody has this pet project that they've always wanted to do,
whether it's hardware or software, or whatever.
I know it's got loads and loads of guys excited and work.
There's two guys who've done really cool hardware,
things that have been hacking on with Arduino's for ages,
and never got it to work.
And then we're able to put in a Raspberry Pi
and got it to work in a few evenings.
For all the people, it's like an XBNC box.
For me, it's like every all the kids have,
I have something like 12,
some huge amount of number of pies around
doing various different things.
You hear a few people say that the Raspberry Pi
is all about the connections and the input output on it.
Is that right, Ken?
Yes, if you're interested in that, it's all about that.
If you're interested in having a PC in your kids' rooms,
it's all about having a PC in your kids' rooms.
Because I'm more software than hardware,
but I'd really like to get into the hardware side
of things a bit more.
So, I mean, checking out the...
Is it Pi Mac?
MacPie.
Oh, that's brilliant.
If you don't have that box,
the MacPie data, or a column,
I'll get a link where you continue to talk.
Yeah, it's a brilliant magazine.
For complete hardware nubes, like myself,
there's some projects in there
that they break down and make really easy to follow.
And it's just sort of like,
maybe it's that spark,
gives you that spark of imagination,
you need to think, oh, OK, a Raspberry Pi,
you know, it's not just there to be used as a proxy server,
but you can do all sorts of magical shit with it.
I think where it's going to go to
is when kids see the dads hacking about with pies and mums,
then it's going to spark that interest.
I think it's going to be difficult to get through the direct route,
but by the indirect route,
I can see it working in achieving its aims.
What I've been doing in work is,
you know, I just have a load of the...
I have a load of these because I ordered a three.
I forgot I ordered them,
and then I ordered three more,
and then the ones that I ordered previously came in,
and then I kept kind of ordering them
and given them to people,
and then when people get their own,
they give them back to me,
and then, oh, I've already ordered another one,
so that's kind of what's happening.
But they're a fantastically little tool for just given to somebody here.
Just take that.
I get one to my father-in-law,
who's an electrical school teacher,
to select, you know, electricians,
so they're always messing with LEDs and stuff,
so that seems ideal.
The thing is, they also don't have a case,
so they could be packaged any way you want
into anyone's desire.
I have a mega case.
I'm going to try to hook mine up
to Christmas lights next year.
I think big...
Absolutely.
Big ledges already beat you to it, I think.
No, that was Arduino,
but you can do the same thing with a pie.
I've already read up that for next year.
Can we go through the list
and see what the people of who has pies,
what you're doing with them,
and what you intend to do with them?
I'm not doing anything right now,
but I recently saw a project
to turn into a GPS logger.
I already have a GPS mouse,
and they're just going to set it up.
I just need a power supply for that.
Me, I have the 256K version,
I'm looking at it mainly from
a media server angle.
I'm hoping that one day
we might be able to get it working
as a Minecraft server as well.
Me, I just got it.
I have the 512 version.
It was on backorder,
and they finally sent it to me,
and I'm looking at doing a couple projects.
One, I want to run a media server
using the Plex with the Roku,
and I also want to get this Christmas light setup
where you can go with the music,
and I want to set a little business up
where I can run them for a month
during the Christmas holidays
and set up people's lights at their houses.
That sounds like a really cool project.
I've already said I'm using mine as a proxy server.
The talking access sites from work,
interestingly, my brother,
who works for CERN out in Switzerland
front on the front,
well, I think you all know where CERN is.
He asked me the other day
because he's come back for Christmas.
He asked me if he could connect to it
so he can watch some of the British UK channels
on the computer,
so I'm going to have to set him up
with an account on that now.
I think the RPI would be great
as just a simple file server
or as a proxy server,
but what I've always wanted
for my home server
is very stage stages of completion
is set up virtual machines
so you could pop on
and you could have your own mumble server
in one VM and asterisk and another.
Whatever, having quite got that,
and I just don't think the RPI
probably has the memory
to be a replacement for a home server
if you're going to do stuff like that.
Oh, yes it has.
My first pie is a 512.
Sorry, it was of 256.
Now it's a 512.
It runs months to my NAS,
over NFS,
it does SSH tunneling,
acts as a proxy,
acts as an IMAP server for courier IMAP
so that I can archive
all my mail accounts
over SSH into my courier IMAP.
It acts as a outbound firewall
for the kids.
I have three pies in the kids' rooms,
all 256,
for rolling child's play
and games like that.
I have one here in the back room,
which is going to Raspbian,
sorry,
positive,
Raspbian XMMS.
It's going to be rolling that,
and then I've got two in my
laptop bag
just to give to people
if they express an interest.
I've got one in kids' room closet
that serves one of my websites,
and then I've got one
that I play around with,
just kind of using as a,
I guess you'd call it a home server,
although it's not really in a home.
And then I've got another one
that I accidentally got,
because I bought it for my dad,
and then he got one for himself
for Christmas,
so I have like this spare
that I'm going to try to
turn into like an art project.
It's going to be like a,
a movie,
but it's going to be all
in a terminal,
text-based.
I'm not really sure what yet,
but it's going to be
some kind of installation.
Have you tried Slackware?
Have you tried Slackware?
Yeah, that's what they,
both of,
all of my run,
Slackware.
I don't have one yet,
but I was thinking about getting one
and trying to set it up
with like own cloud,
actually using that
as an own cloud server.
I was going to suggest that.
You could also look at
Tenido for that kind of thing.
Sure, for this,
as a home server,
you just have to look at
the Tenido project,
both as inspiration
and possibly use some
of their code as well.
I've got a Tenido 2 in here,
and that runs a
sourcing service,
it runs a web server,
it runs network
attached storage,
it runs a bunch of stuff,
and that's all of
512 mega memory,
so the potential is definitely there.
And that's the little
plug server, is it?
That's right, yeah,
you literally plug it in,
it's got one USB port
and a network port,
and you do everything remotely into it.
Yeah, that sounds pretty much how I use my pie,
it's headless,
so it's just...
Instead of a plug or plug?
It's like a Pogo plug,
only open source.
Yeah, as I plug over the
vase against buying
Pogo plugs, Tony Buddy.
I would just like to welcome Hannah
into the chat room.
Welcome, Hannah.
Hey! Happy new year.
Hey, Hannah.
Hi, Hannah.
Go on, push the button.
Unmove yourself, Hannah.
She was doing some installing
off of USB,
I think she's trying
to do something with
a huge bang for this as well.
Yeah, I'll know it would be my fault.
Oh, good, live support on the show.
So, I got to ask,
what is a GPS mouse?
A mouse that knows where it's going?
Or where it's been?
In Australia, it's where it's been.
It's basically a GPS device,
which hooks into either
PS2 or USB,
and instead of passing
the mouse input,
it puts in geographic location.
Oh, okay.
In some place, I've got one
of those old USB GPS
dongles that work with the
Microsoft software
and OpenStreamMap.
Yeah, I was going to say a good
Raspberry Pi project would be
a 5150 strung,
like two dozen of them together
as a repeating mesh network.
So, he'd get better bandwidth with
any when ruined the joke by sound
and find the last couple times.
Sure, by the end of the day,
if it isn't the bandwidth,
the alcohol will make me sound funny.
Ah, you know, doubt.
5150, the end of which day
today or tomorrow?
Yes.
Yeah, either one.
We've crossed the date line already.
He could be talking about the end of
yesterday.
He could be here to the
Northern Territories,
just gone.
That's Darwin, Alice Springs
and I can't pronounce
in there one.
Or you, or something.
Yeah, I think you hit it right on.
Good job.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Hello, Nightwise.
Hello, Nightwise.
Hey guys, welcome.
I'm sorry, you give me a microphone
and I'm lost.
I just was tuning in.
We're preparing everything for new
your celebrations here.
And as I was doing the dishes
and preparing the cutlery,
I decided to tune in and
listen into what you guys were saying.
Come over to my house.
Yeah, that's a great thing about having a tablet.
You can just pop it on the kitchen counter
and do all of the work that makes
you happy.
And meanwhile, you get the geek out
and listen to the HP RCAS.
Oh, if you think you really
realized cutting board one.
Yeah, yeah, I am actually
doing carrots on a 10-point
inch iPad 3.
And cutting carrots on that one.
It works great.
Okay, I'm going to continue to listen here.
And for those of you who have
crossed the date line,
go to happy 2013
to anynightwise.com listeners
that are listening to the cast as well.
It's going to be an awesome year.
You've got some nice shows
and interesting topics lined up.
And I am also looking for it, of course,
to another year of fun-filled geeky
with the HP RCAS.
Thanks very much for your time.
Thank you so much for my nightwise.
Ken, it's always a pleasure
and I know that it's your
one of your personal hobbies
and also listening to me on the podcast
and talking to me on RC
at the same time.
So if we could do mumble
at the same time the next time together,
I would be omnipresent in your universe
and that to me would be the greatest honor.
We'll quickly make sure.
Okay.
Hey, dudes, have a great time, okay?
Hey, thanks a lot.
Bye, guys.
Have a good week.
Yeah, we'll just go nightwise.
We've got some nice news before and before.
The nightwise.com podcast is
a podcast for
with hacks, tips, and tweaks for cross-platform geek.
So we mainly focus on
tuning technology
in your way of life and use technology
that is cross-platform compatible.
So no matter if you're on a
droid, an Android, or
iOS to fight some macro-linux windows,
we go above and beyond
to make technology work for you.
We've got interviews, we've got how-tos,
we've got video episodes.
We additionally have some
story time episodes where we actually
reach some articles.
So it's kind of everything.
But if you're a geek, you'll love it.
I'll be tuning in soon.
Thank you.
No worries.
And it's been a pleasure coming on.
Just to make sure he was not really
cutting carrots on his tablet, right?
I don't know, but I was going to say
that's the best use of an iPad I've ever had.
No, I think there really is an app for
that for cutting things on your iPad.
That's good because you could
like show you where to line your knife
up or something so you can give him
slices.
That's exactly what it does.
I'm sure I've seen it.
That's pretty fine.
Oh, it's great I could finally learn to make
like a dove out of a pear.
I think you can use it for cutting pizza.
Exactly into even parts.
Even pie slices.
That would be great if you had a
fledger wrist too.
And that's why if you're just going to be
listening, can you leave the
mumble room and go tune into one of the
streams.
So seen as you're on an iPad, I suppose
the MP3 stream will be more suitable.
That will be hackupubblegradio.org forward slash
MP3. That way we have a limited
number of connections in the
mumble server.
And we have a large mirror network right
now.
It's very manic go.
No, don't people don't take that as a
you all have to feck off.
But if you are, if you're just going to be
lurking in the background, then
drop out onto the live stream
if you wouldn't mind.
No, I'm not taking it that way, mate.
I've just got to drop out anyway.
I've got stuff to do now.
Well, just go home and take your ball
with you.
I win the game.
No, he meant it the other way.
Right, I've got to go everyone.
I've a good day.
Happy new year to you and Mrs. P.
Yeah, I'm happy to be honest.
I'm sorry if you want me or Les.
Bye Les.
Sit down.
Come back again.
Bye Les.
Yeah, so can you weren't around when I
said it earlier? It was like the first
maybe half an hour or hour of the show.
I mentioned that I've got an HPR coming up.
I still have to edit it and submit it, of course.
I did an audio version of an intro to
editing the open street map page.
Oh, cool.
Yes, it's an experimental show.
I don't know how good an audio version of
that's going to be, but I gave it a shot.
I think I did all right.
Yeah, no, cool.
There's been several.
I've kind of gotten into it.
I even did a HPR episode one time.
Of course, as I do with most of.
And bugging me here in the neighborhood,
but trying to actually edit stuff,
whether it's a way,
or what type of a role it is,
it just seems a bit,
it seems to be a lot of
in knowledge that you need there before you
be able to do anything.
Yeah, and I tried to just crack the surface of it,
because I realized when I was editing it,
that once you
can just do that,
once you just crack the surface and get past
the little hump of a learning curve,
everything else seems to kind of fall into place.
So I think really all you need is just an intro
and then just some practice with it.
You know, you can always do a video
you need to, I think,
Dan's series is a prime example of
like the perfect way to do that sort of
complete explanations.
Yeah, that's true.
That's true. Yeah, we'll see how the audio one goes.
And if people think they need a video version of it
and I can update it later or something.
I want a video version.
You got it, I already sent you one.
You didn't watch it?
No, I missed it.
Oh man, there was no audio, but it was subtitled.
Oh!
I need the braille version.
Yeah, I don't know if closed-caption
strands like that way.
Send them a bag of rope.
You know, like the candy ticker tape
that's what I'm imagining right now,
with the little bumps.
I just spit those out for closed-captioning.
There you go, that would work.
Oh man, like a TV watcher doesn't get fat enough.
No, nice to do that.
My friends thought it was funny.
Like when I had cable like
10, 12 years ago, maybe longer.
You know, like a Poke you might know.
I don't know if it's like this
like outside the United States,
but like when you had, you know,
the old cable box is Pokey.
Like, say if you weren't paying for like
HB or Showtime, it would show
you the old cable box.
Yeah.
I would totally watch everything.
I didn't care. I didn't see this
terrible video.
Yeah, that makes perfect sense.
I like to listen to movies,
just the audio.
If I already watched it, I already know
exactly what's going on.
So I just listen to it and I recreate
everything in my head.
So while I'm driving and stuff,
it's decent.
I was like, I forget.
I was like buying a new one.
So I took the BCR and I hooked up
to speakers and I'm just like,
listen to movies that way.
I'm like, hey, this works.
Oh, that's brilliant.
Yeah, that totally works.
You'd save so much power.
How long before we go into the subject
of accessible pornography?
I think you just did it.
I don't know how you do that.
You just described the thing.
Who's doing the show notes for this?
Sure, but maybe it's not appropriate
for this time of day.
That depends on where you are.
Why do I get pulled into this one?
Well, that's why he said not at this time of day
a little bit later when you've had a couple.
We can volunteer if you're just about anything.
You catch me in about 12 hours then.
I'm sure someone will bring it up again.
No, yeah, wait until the web gets on.
You still sleeping off last night, any?
Hey, he ought to be ready to go about now.
So 24 hours.
How exactly is this going to be put on the feed
or is this even going to be?
One giant download.
Yeah, let's do that.
Well, it would probably be like when we did
the 12-hour episode for the ACF,
we recorded an hog.
It was only like 384 megs, the whole shot.
So you'd be looking at under a gig download.
It's doable.
Yeah, but we're only releasing this one in Flack.
Our goal is to be the first podcast ever
that actually adds physical weight to your MB3 player.
Actually, technically they all wouldn't they?
Because electrons do weigh.
Yeah, they do.
But it was on a, I was reading a forum one time
on the little remote control helicopters.
And you know, guys are talking about what they did to lighten them up.
And they're bragging about the weights.
I mentioned that his weighed X amount of grams fully charged.
And I just thought it was funny that he felt he need
to add fully charged in there.
That is funny.
I used to, I read some science post about how a Kindle full of books
weighs more than a Kindle without any books in it
by a very, very, very small percentage
because of the electrons.
Yeah, exactly.
I remember reading that too.
And it's like, it's so microscopic that you'd never notice it.
But it is actually a teeny tiny bit.
It's less than the difference of light hitting it.
So in the dark, it would weigh less.
Which is why I always weigh myself in the dark.
Okay, me too.
You're back, John.
We're going to get all sorts of complaints from blind users
talking about this.
John at the native guy just has no sensitivity.
And they'll be posting it from sonar.
But it'll be kind of meta.
Hey, it can't have started at all.
Sorry.
How did we work that out?
Jonathan, how big of a user's group do you have on sonar?
Like, do you have any numbers of how many people use your software?
I have it.
I'll get back to you a second to Ken.
I haven't checked probably as of a month and a half ago
or roughly that had been downloaded over 600 times
in 30 different countries.
That is a lot if they're actually using it.
Yeah, I was just, I couldn't believe all the countries I was seeing
was like, you know, all the like Finland, Norway, Sweden, Israel,
some places in Africa, Japan, China, Belarus.
I can't think of any of them as I'll talk about Argentina.
I don't know if I said polar or not.
But, yeah, I couldn't believe, like I said, it was over 30 countries.
I was pretty surprised to see that.
What is the current state of text-to-speech in Gnu Linux?
I mean, it works, it works great.
I can maneuver the desktop.
I can pretty much use everything that I need to.
I mean, audacity's accessible-ish.
I can edit audio.
I can, you know, the library office is accessible.
I love Pigeon.
I can use Pigeon for all kinds of things like IRC.
I hope that's my identity account.
So you can use Pigeon for all kinds of stuff, which is pretty cool.
So I use that for a lot of stuff.
Firefox is accessible.
Thunderbird.
Anything in the terminal is basically accessible.
So I can do everything I need to do.
I strictly use Gnu Linux for the last five years.
That's all I use, and I can do everything I need to do.
How do the actual voices sound?
Do they still sound very robotic?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, it's extra.
It's like from the 80s or whatever.
But I don't care.
They have other voices that are sort of real-ish sounding,
but you lose performance.
And so I'll take the robotic voice to get performance.
I have it speaking as fast as it can right now,
and it does 300 words a minute.
I had a bot set up on Pigeon,
and I had the text-to-speech whenever I was gone.
So just read off whatever anybody sent to me,
and it would respond back in the voice with the bot actually saying it.
Yeah, that uses Festival, which has a kind of a more real-sounding voice.
It gets you could say it's real-sounding.
It's kind of old now, but yeah, Festival is one that you can't really jack the speed up on.
So I don't use it.
Jonathan, we've had some discussions about,
on Hack of Upper Grady, you're here, about adding some feedback to our episodes going out,
because we're a daily episode, we could provide news and views for the community.
For example, if people send feedback via Twitter or something on a particular show,
that could be added the following day as text-to-speech,
or if there was an event coming up that people wanted to add,
that could be added as text-to-speech.
However, we've got a lot of people didn't seem to particularly like the whole concept of text-to-speech.
So can you explain how you intend to make what is really crappy text-to-speech better,
so that it will be as good?
So can you just give us an example of where we are in the open-source free software arena as far as text-to-speech goals?
Yeah, unfortunately, for free software, the synthesizers,
there's just no good free software solution right now for a synthetic speech.
Like, that's why I use eSpeak.
Like I said, it's just really old sounding robotic voice.
There's festival, which has kind of real sounding voices.
There are a couple of other companies where you can buy, like, a licensed voice,
where I think I want to say one company is called Semstrel.
I don't know if I'm pronouncing that right.
Semstrel, Semstrel.
Something like that, where you can buy a voice for, like, 30 to $40.
And that sounds a lot, you know, more real.
But, you know, it's like a proprietary license.
It's not a free synthesizer.
So I don't know what you could exactly get out of that.
Like, what you can and can't use it for a type of thing.
I wanted to work on the foundation.
I wanted to put money into building a free software synthesizer.
But the couple of board members are like, you know,
it would realistically cost probably 30 to $40,000 to get one made.
And then, like, do you think that would be the best thing to focus on at this time?
And I was like, I guess not.
I didn't realize it would cost that much.
And one of the board members has a couple of good contacts at Google.
And he said, you know what?
You'd probably be better off trying to contact someone at Google
if they would, you know, like, I don't know the current license
of like the Android text-to-speech for the like the screen reader.
But it's like, you'd probably have a better chance of getting them
to free the code for that text-to-speech engine than trying to build one.
And he's like, you know, maybe you can talk to them.
So I'm currently working on speaking with Google to see if they'll free their synthesizer to be used
like within Gnu Linux or, you know, in general to have better sounding voices.
That falls through. Did you ever think about doing a pledgy or Kickstarter campaign?
Yeah, I actually was, I was telling around the idea of doing one for a sonar
but I never actually launched it.
I was going to do an IndieGoGo one just because that, you know,
that can be used outside of the United States.
If you're going to live in the States, like, I think with Kickstarter,
you can't, like, pledge to the projects.
So I was going to do an IndieGoGo campaign.
You know, I'd have to see if people would be interested in that.
I mean, if you're not going to benefit from it, I guess it might be hard to see
to get a lot of, you know, a movement on, you know, getting 30 or 40 grand
to make a free software synthesizer.
I don't think so.
I would definitely contribute to that.
And I have no need for it.
I just think it's something that is completely missing from computing.
And I think that needs to be built.
Yeah, I mean, it would be great because that, unfortunately,
is kind of a hurdle for some, like, especially blind users,
where, you know, they might install Sonar or try it out and be like,
ah, you know, this voice, it's so horrible.
It sounds like an old robot.
And, you know, I think Clot 2 has heard me say this before,
where it's, you can basically equate it to, like,
someone's seeing a desktop and being, like, completely ugly.
And they're used to seeing, like, you know, a really pretty, like,
Mac or, you know, the Windows 7 desktop or however those look.
They're used to seeing a really great desktop,
but he introduced them to a new Linux.
They're going to be like, this looks awful.
I'm not going to use this.
Same thing for a blind user.
They're used to, like, really good sounding voices on the Mac and Windows.
And they're going to hear this 1980s robot.
They're going to be like, I'm not going to use this.
This is, like, taking five steps back.
There is another route you could go,
which is to hire Ellen McLean,
to read everything for you on your computer.
Well, it's actually all the speech synthesizers are actually all done
with algorithms surprisingly enough.
So it's, they kind of do take people talking,
but it's more, it's more done with algorithms
to get the proper sounds out of, like, the language.
What about stuff like Hotsune Miku, like Vocaloid stuff,
that actually uses specific syllables?
Have you ever thought of looking into that as a solution rather than actually,
like, an algorithm, but, like, samples?
Yeah, the problem with that is when you start speeding up,
like, a lot of blind users would do.
It gets extremely choppy.
And you can see that inconsistency, just trying to patch different,
like, prefixes and suffixes together.
It just doesn't come out.
It works fine if you play it like slow,
but if you start to speed it up, it just gets all choppy
and it doesn't sound good anymore.
That makes sense.
I wanted about that for a long time,
because the Vocaloid synthesizers are so much better than anything else,
but if you can't speed them up, that doesn't really help.
Yeah, the Mac actually does that.
They're voice Alex.
That's on the voice over on the Mac.
It sounds really good if you keep it at its, you know, default speed.
But if you start to turn it up, it just doesn't sound good anymore.
That's one thing you might not know if you've not had any involvement
with accessibility that the rates of speech,
which blind people use when they're interfacing with the computer,
really do get quite high,
much faster than normal spoken speech, don't they?
Oh, yeah.
Like I said, I have Orca turned up all the way right now,
and it reads at 300 words a minute.
So it's my way of scanning the screen.
I just get the talk really fast,
and listen closely for what I'm looking for,
and pull out what I need and what I don't need.
It was funny when you originally said that.
You said you had it turned up as fast as you can,
but it sounded like as fast as can,
and we all know what a fast talker he is.
Yeah, one of the board members,
actually the foundation built a library called Sonic,
and he got that included into eSpeak now.
So if you go and change the .conf file,
you can actually get Orca to talk up to at least like 1200 words a minute now.
You really hear that fast?
Yeah, you get used to it.
I mean, it takes a little bit of getting used.
I mean, you couldn't go from what I'm at to up to 1200,
but you could definitely get used to it.
Could you actually stream some of that into the,
into the room so we could get a sample of that?
Oh, he does it all the time.
I can try it,
but I have to have the control button pushed down as my push the talks.
I'll see what I can do.
Give me a second here.
Oh, I don't know if you might not be set up for it,
because it's not by default, Jonathan,
but a lot of people have a double tap
for their push the talk, and they'll leave your mic open.
Yeah, I don't have that setup actually.
Hang on one second.
Did you hear that?
That is fast.
I'll arrow down.
I was just raising and lowering the volume.
That was one word.
Was that 300 words?
That wasn't 300 words.
A minute was it?
Yeah, well, yeah.
I mean, it reads at 300 words a second minute,
but if it's only two or three words, then obviously it.
Maybe I could find a dot.
I'll pull up a document maybe,
and then I'll have to read that and hang on a second.
You barely hear it when it's a normal speed,
but those robotic voices.
Probably get used to the way the syntax breaks on certain words,
and you'd be able to identify them if you used it enough, though.
I wonder if Jonathan knows this,
but I wonder if the geeks are the ones who speed it up
and if normal computer users keep it slow.
If it's sort of akin to one of us using FluxBox instead of GNOME, you know, something.
That is a great question.
Yeah.
Well, it's actually a study that proves that if you listen to things faster,
you actually contain a lot of it better,
because when you're listening to it at a much faster rate,
your brain focuses on it and you have to pay attention to what's being said.
And if it's talking slow, that's when your mind wanders
and you start daydreaming and you're like,
before you know, you're like, oh, wait, wait, what was going on?
Oh, man, I just listed them at the last two minutes of that conversation.
So when it's talking really fast, your brain focuses on it
and you maintain more of what's being said, or, you know.
I know also that it's a bit of a bugbear for some podcast listeners,
people that put audio behind podcasting,
because they do listen to it one and a half times a speed,
and then the audio behind can actually detract from what's being said.
Yeah, I actually have a special audio player thing,
and I can actually listen to podcasts at 4x,
so I can listen to an hour podcast in 15 minutes.
Are you a wizard?
No.
I know it really does sound pretty magical.
I'm not doing the speed listening yet,
and maybe I will someday, but that is crazy.
I don't know if I could do it.
What's cool, too, is what's cool, too,
about the way my player handles the speed,
where even though it's four times as fast,
it doesn't make anything sound like chipmunks or whatever.
It adjusts the audio, so it's just, you know,
if I'm listening to a new world order,
it's just claw two talking really fast.
I don't think I could go to four times.
I think one and a half or maybe double speed.
Well, yeah, but when you get used to that,
then to you, that's normal, and then you speed up more,
and then, you know, even 4x is normal for me,
but I can't go any faster now.
So do you get annoyed at talking to us in real life?
Oh, no.
Yeah, it's real-time thing sucks.
No, but it is weird, though, when you listen to like a live stream,
you're like, oh my goodness, they sound like they're on quailudes
or whatever.
You used to hear it so fast, you know?
You're like, get on with it already.
Now, I tried listening to podcasts at like one and a half speed,
and I do it sometimes if I'm like way behind,
and I really want to listen,
but I find it like if it's a podcast, they really, really like.
I want to listen to it at regular speed just to savor it.
I don't like it.
They're over so fast.
I have a pretty long commute, so I usually like it
the last as long as possible.
So it lasts the whole trip.
I'm going to have to experiment with listening to Linux Outlaws
and hearing Fabran at four times the speed.
That's got to be done.
Oh my gosh, that would sound hilarious.
I gotta say though, I think music podcasts at four times
just wouldn't be the same experience.
Yeah, I know that doesn't work.
Like at the end of Linux Outlaws, when they play a song,
whatever it did doesn't sound good.
Well, just put like, you know, trippy beats in the background,
and then you've got like, you know, acid house or something,
and you're okay.
It'd be cool for someone to actually do that like to create a song
in mind with someone playing at four times a speed.
So it would sound really messed up if you listen to it at regular speed.
But if you had it cranked up, it would sound,
what it was intended to sound like.
That would be awesome.
I believe that's how Pendula makes all of their music.
I think you're looking for night palm death.
Oh my gosh.
KMFTM.
Any death metal.
Any just any growling death metal.
Actually, with the broadcast.
Hello.
Hey Ken.
Yeah, the I speed my podcast up of those 2.5 now.
And with the broadcast.
I have to be and also Kriven's and Kevin's podcast.
It's always because of music on in between.
I've just been telling them that, Ken.
And I can't understand the Kriven's normal speed.
Let alone a 2.5 speed.
Nice.
I keep trying to read the phonetic notes.
I keep trying to read the phonetic notes that go with the show
and still don't understand it.
So Jonathan, do you have specific recommendations
for sonic in terms of hardware?
Because it is actually different.
My alarms will not.
Because it is actually different in terms of what you actually have
to do with it in terms of workflow.
So does stuff like video chipsets matter as much
if you're using it as a blind user?
Not really.
No, I mean, I guess the only problem you'd fall into
if you're using the GNOME shell and you didn't support
3D acceleration.
But again, that doesn't really affect you
because then you would just go into GNOME fallback
and you can use Orca, GNOME problem under that also.
So for me, a video doesn't really matter.
I even had a problem installing the daily build of Ubuntu 1304
where my son helps me install it at first
and then I tweak it all out.
So we got it installed and it rebooted.
And he was like, I was like, all right, what do you see now?
He's like, nothing.
The screen's black.
And I was like, what?
He's like, yeah.
So I was like, hmm.
So I put on my headphones, I logged in, got Orca up and running.
The computer was running totally fine.
Even though the screen was totally black.
So I just did everything from there.
Now audio wise, do you have any problems with Puls audio?
Or is everything fine?
I did when they first introduced it.
It was awful.
I think it's Puls audio is that where it was intended to be at.
I don't have any problems anymore with it.
But for the first couple releases of any distro,
you were better off just removing it totally out of the system
and everything would work fine.
But for the first couple releases, it was not good.
But it's way better now though.
Hey, Jonathan.
We have a question from Pythman Music about running text-to-speech
and Jack.
I don't know if you've ever run Jack.
So do you have any experience with that?
No, I don't.
KDE and QT apps just recently became accessible to Orca.
So I have not mess around with a Q-Jack control or anything like that.
I have not invented into that yet.
Can you get on that and get back to us?
You got about 13 hours left.
Oh yeah, I'll be on that.
Actually, it's probably a lot more than 13 hours.
I just made up a number.
Yeah, that sounded vaguely optimistic.
Yeah, I'll make it about 21 hours.
That's what I was going to say about 21 hours.
The Pokey, you're way off, Mathis, and you're strong-point.
No, no.
Like I said, it wasn't even Math. It was just BS.
It wasn't there in a minute.
He expects to pass out.
Didn't catch a word of that 51-50.
Oh, you keep ruining my jokes.
I said it's 13 hours because that's about the time Pokey's going to fall asleep.
Oh yeah, that's what I meant.
Pokey, you're going to make it through the entire 25 hours, right?
Oh, I don't know.
I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to be here the whole time.
I get some stuff going on today that came up kind of last minute.
I'm going to be here as much as I can, but I have no idea how much that'll even be.
I plan to stick with the whole podcast, so I should be around most of the time.
I'll be here until the Missies comes back, which is about another two or three hours.
The same way I messed around with Opus?
Not yet.
But I heard Mumble is actually switching over to Opus, Codec.
I can't wait for Opus.
If you install the development builds on Rockbox, you can get Opus.
And I think the latest versions of FFM Peg will convert to Opus also.
Clockers should know that.
I don't know that for sure, but I'm pretty sure you're right.
I haven't played around with it either, so.
Yeah, trouble is it's not stable in anything yet.
True, but it's coming along.
The default Opus and Code is pretty much stable.
And it's in a VLC and Firefox by default.
So most people could be able to run it.
It's in the latest Firefox.
What is it 17 now or something ridiculous like that?
Yeah, I think 17 is the latest.
Yeah, it's in the latest Firefox and VLC, the latest one.
I think that's 2.0.5.
Cool.
Okay.
Guys, I think we should just take a minute to wish Happy New Year to everybody in Japan.
South Korea.
A small region of Indonesia.
A small region of Russia.
Palau.
North Korea.
And Timor Lest.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
And thanks for all the Android devices.
Okay, let's just make sure that we all have...
We're just going to stop the recorder for a second.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicum Computer Club.
HPR is funded by the Binary Revolution at binrev.com.
All binrev projects are proudly sponsored by LUNAR Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LUNAR Pages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share a line, free those own license.
