Episode: 1094
Title: HPR1094: Linux, Beer, and Who Cares?
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1094/hpr1094.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 18:51:56

---

Howdy folks, this is 5150 for Hacker Public Radio.
This was a recording of an impromptu bull session that came about one night after Bire Brown,
Red Dwarf and I had been waiting around on mumble for another host to join in.
After giving up on recording our scheduled podcast, we stayed up for about an hour talking
and drinking when Bire suddenly asked Red and I to find current events, articles concerning
Linux.
When that task was completed, Bire announced he was launching a live audio cast over
mixler.com with us as his guests.
You are about to hear the result.
Topics ranged from the prospects of Linux taking over the small business server market, now
that Microsoft is retreated from the field, Android tablets in the future of the desktop
in general, and at the time, revelations that steam would be coming to Linux.
On the last point, let me be the first to say that I am glad some of the concerns in
my rant appear to be unfounded.
Apparently after a lot of work, left for dead two runs faster under Linux than it does
under Windows with equivalent hardware.
This podcast was recorded on a whim, but I won't promise that it will never happen again.
And make sure you stick around for the special guest who jumps in at the end.
Hello ladies and gentlemen out there, my name is Bire Brown and you may have remembered
me from such places as bbtas.com or over at Linux Basics, where we have such a granular
time, or I should say a grand time, talking about all kinds of things concerning Linux and
programming languages and whatnot.
You might be tuning in right now over at mixlar.
That's over at mixlar.com and you can check out the Bire Brown live feed.
You might be wondering what in the world is going on right now.
What is this cast that's happening?
Well, what you're experiencing right now is a podcast that's happening off the cuff
right now live for no reason.
The title is called Linux Bear and Who Cares.
And I'm here with some great friends of mine's by the name of Reddorth and 5150.
Fellas you out there?
Indeed I am, Bire.
Finally.
That's what I'm talking about.
Fellas that we are here on a very, very, very early Saturday morning.
It is the what is this July 14th, 2012.
We just got out of what the Friday the 13th, huh?
We survived.
Yeah.
We survived.
How about you, Redd?
No.
I think I'm still here.
Cool, Bire.
But we got that big sunshot heading towards us before it gets day long.
Yeah.
You know what?
Now I heard a little bit about that was what's going on with that biggest one of months.
They said, I guess it's not it, you know, I heard him talking about I had in visions of
the movie knowing, but apparently they've been at least as big before and just a few
months ago, but we might see some disruptions and they said they might be able to see the
Rory-Bori Alice in Alabama and it's too bad Paranoid Shell left.
Yeah.
That would have been right up his alley as well.
I don't know.
So they had things like this before and you were having visions of that movie called Science
World.
That was the one with Nicholas Cage, right?
Yeah.
That was the one where the aliens or angels or whatever picked up a few kids and everybody
else died.
Right.
You know what?
I always did like Nicholas Cage as far as like a filler movie kind of guy.
Like check this out.
If you're sitting at home and you really didn't got nothing else to do, you might have
yourself a little bit of brew, maybe some Doritos, cool ranch, I don't know.
And you want something to watch, but there's really nothing quite interesting enough to watch.
It's not a blockbuster and you need something just to pass that time.
Nicholas Cage comes in and saves the day every single time.
Well, the man is at least prolific.
I give you national treasure, not a blockbuster movie, not by my standards, but although I was
not upset at the movie.
What was that Ghost Rider?
Ghost Rider one wasn't all that great.
I have not seen Ghost Rider two yet, but I've heard that it's better.
But it seems like Nicholas Cage is that guy that just comes in and fills that filler space
between blockbuster movies where you don't feel cheated or anything.
I wouldn't go to the theater to see it, but it's great at home TV watching.
Well, I'm trying to work down to the other one by him I saw for my, uh, out of the $5
Walmart.
But next, that's it.
That was probably the one he did before, knowing, or about the same time and kind of almost
a similar theme, both of them deal with knowing what's going to happen before it happens.
Yeah, that whole, that whole second sight type deal.
And what about you, Red, any Nicholas Cage movies you like the best or what do you watch
when you want to see a filler movie?
Uh, honestly, I basically, I kind of flip over the dial and see if something catches my
fancy.
A lot of times what I'll do is, I'll look around some of the, uh, networks that show older
TV shows, uh, like old Batman from the 60s, uh, Hogan's Heroes, I always like watching
Hogan's Heroes, you know, shows like that, those really intrigued me more than a lot of
the movies I had to sit down and look through a list of a whole bunch of movies.
It doesn't really intrigue me that much.
Hey, nothing wrong with that and Hogan Heroes was definitely something really cool to watch.
I loved Batman from back in the day, even though it was the campy version, but at the same
time, it had that certain mystique of the time period and it was awesome to watch with
the whole bams and the booms and, you know, the Joker and Penguin and all of them.
I don't know.
I think it kind of harkens back to just simpler times, funner times where you could have yourself
a brew, sit down and get easy chair and just watch a little bit of Batman and, uh, you
know, always, we're always right with the world before you had to go back to work the next
day.
Well, you know, I am from the generation that Adam West is Batman.
I mean, uh, Michael Keaton was good, you know, he's not bad, but when I think of Batman,
I go back to the old ones when I think of the, when I think of the Joker, it's, it's
always Caesar or Marrow, even though the Joker was the role that Jack Nicholson was born
to play.
I'm not one of these people to say that look at the Heath Ledger one and just say, oh,
how incredible that was.
Yeah, he was good.
I mean, Jack Nicholson, man, if there, if there was a man born to play a role, uh, that
was it.
I'd have to agree.
I would have to read Jack Nicholson did an awesome job on the Joker as far as those, you
know, those particular Batman series that they had out there with, uh, uh, Michael Keaton
and all of them, uh, wait, Michael Keaton, he was the one with that with, uh, Jack Nicholson,
right?
Yeah, he was the first one.
I guess if you'd call it in a reboot or whatever, when they first start movies, he's the one
said, who are you?
I'm Batman.
Yeah, that was definitely some awesome times.
I'll bring back a lot of, a lot of memories.
And I have to say, uh, hello to all you people who are listening live right now over there
at Mixlar.
We, it looks like we have a couple of people out there that are checking us out live
right now.
And, um, you guys have been hanging around.
So I guess you like what you're hearing and we definitely, uh, love the fact that you
were checking us out.
If you didn't tune in at the beginning, this podcast right now really does not exist.
This is just a bunch of people that are sitting around and we decided to have a little bit
of fun.
And you talk about fresh podcast.
I mean, this is like right off the cuff.
So I don't know where it's going.
I just called it Linux bear and who cares because, uh, I couldn't think of anything else
to call it.
I got a bear and we all like Linux over here and we like movies and shows and just like
life.
I'm here with some really great friends, 51, 50 and red dwarf.
And you can check us all out over at Linux basics.com, that's b a s i x dot com.
So, uh, I want to know what, no, no love for HPR buyer.
Oh, there's always love for HPR has mega love.
Nobody knows who HPR is and thank you for reminding me, actually.
But yeah, HPR is definitely in the house, uh, 51, 50 is, is, is, is connected intimately
to the HPR and, uh, you know, it's always an honor for HPR while while we're plugging
that's hacker public radio dot org.
And while I'm on it, I'm going to have some friends would be on me if I don't mention
devrandom dot W s.
Awesome.
Yeah.
For sure.
And it looks like we have, uh, we have a couple more people coming in and listening.
This is awesome.
This is kind of, hey, everybody.
That's really cool.
But yeah, like I said, HPR for sure, Linux basics for sure.
All you guys out there, uh, uh, freedom plug and everybody that's over on the open speak
server.
Who else is on open speak server?
Uh, isn't the Linux meant people over there and, um, I think, I, I can't think it
is going Linux.
Did they, did they record on open speak?
I know they're over at Linux basics.
I don't know.
They've got, they certainly have a room in here.
Uh, but while we're mentioning people, we should, we should, uh, mention, uh, Dunstein
studio people and, uh, their podcast, Krivens and touch and, yes, uh, got, uh,
people that see our IV INS, uh, you remember, dude, man, I'll do man looks like he has a
room over at, uh, open speak.
And I think that he's going to be starting up a podcast as well as a good friend, Bruce
from, uh, from, uh, distra watch is involved with open speak as well.
Yeah.
And, uh, another podcast that, uh, we've got to mention because the gentleman is also
involved with Linux basics and that's Linux for the rest of us over on the pod nuts network.
Uh, door to door geek, aka Steve McLaughlin is, uh, very, very good at what he does with
Linux.
And, in fact, he's done videos and he's even got a, uh, Kickstarter going right now.
He's trying to upgrade his, uh, recording equipment and have a set up a nice little studio
for himself and these while on his way to his goals.
And let's not forget mentioned Android app addicts, so also we're on the pod nuts network.
Yeah.
For real.
Uh, Steve Trebino, got a set of shot out and give some love to street Steve Trebino too.
Over there pod nuts.
And of course much love to door to door most certainly.
We have over here at open speak right now, we're inside of mumble and if you ever want
to join us over here mumble, you can't all you people that are over there listening to
us right now.
And I want to thank you for all the listeners that are popping up.
We got two more people and, uh, you can come on over to mumble and join us, uh, in
the mumble, uh, server and if you go to Linux basics, B A S I X, they're going to bottom
right corner.
You'll see just how to join us.
You can join us right now if you wanted to or if not, you know, I know I'm kind of
throwing everything, you know, on your plate right away, you're like, who are you guys?
And, uh, but that's, that's the awesome thing about the internet.
You never know.
Just boom.
Here we go.
Here goes the show.
That's hot.
I love it.
And that is great.
We want to send a, uh, hello out there to, uh, Jay Rolo out there from California, up
not California, Hawaii.
What's up brother and, um, feel free to chime in anytime you need.
So guys, you know what, the name of this spontaneous podcast, maybe we should call it that spontaneous
podcast.
I don't know.
It's Linux bearing who cares.
So I want to know what is on the plate when it comes the Linux red dwarf.
What you got?
Well, uh, I was looking over here at a place called the var guy dot com.
And he's got a little bit of a story here about, uh, can Linux dance on Microsoft
Windows, SBS grave, which I think is kind of interesting.
So, yeah, well, when Microsoft, uh, killed Windows, small business server, which is what SBS
is, uh, the guy, the guy that wrote this, said he wondered, uh, can Linux somehow invade
the small business server market in a big way.
You thought of it for a week, he decided, no, he seriously doubts it.
The Microsoft has started up what they call office 365, which is a cloud related setup.
And you'll be able to do your stuff up in the cloud, store your, I guess store your documents
and stuff like that too.
The small business server markets shrinking, which is true.
And what he was thinking was maybe that, uh, the Linux offerings that are going on like,
uh, red hat, enterprise Linux, susay, or sus, depending on how you say it, uh, there
are some other, uh, Linux distributions and bundles that are available to, and focus
on the small business market, uh, red hat and susay are basically used in the large corporation
type situations, but they can also be used in small systems too, uh, but, uh, canonical
and, I believe it's sential, sential, sort of like that, uh, focus on, uh, that type
of a distribution and they're based, uh, on a bunch of, and, uh, let's see, what else
do we have here that they're saying, uh, gentlemen from red hat, the CEO of red hat, Jim
Whitehurst said, uh, about two years ago, his company would focus on cloud computing
rather than small business servers.
The reason cloud services were the fastest way to engage small business, replacing server
preloads as the preferred route to market, uh, from what I've been, uh, seeing here, uh,
the cloud, the shift to the cloud, uh, operations, there was something in here, I don't see
it right at this moment that said that, oh, here it is, the shift to the cloud is real,
and Microsoft Office 365 and cloud related revenues are doubling annually.
So the cloud computing apparently is taking off, of course, you know, if you have one person
doing it and then you have two, you've doubled.
So, you know, it's one of those things it's relative is based on how big you really
start out with when you're figuring something like that.
Another thing that's happening too is, uh, some people aren't even using that type of
a system, they're just going to what's called a NAS or a network attached storage system,
and what that basically amounts to is a hard drive, and uh, thanks for the email, whoever
did that, uh, it's a hard drive that's hooked up to a network through a router, and you can
access it through your network system, and you could also access it from offsite as well.
So that is also another way that people are making up for the difference, but it's getting
interesting to see what the small businesses are going to do, and at the cost of what
they were spending on Microsoft systems, a Linux-based system really not only can save
them money, but we'll be around for quite a while, as opposed to what they had with their
Microsoft system.
Now, I got a, you know what, I got a wonder, now everybody knows that Linux rules when
it comes to servers.
Now, I got to admit, you know, Linux on the desktop, yeah, okay, it's not everywhere, not
how like we would like it to be, but when it comes to servers, Linux most certainly
rules.
Not only does it rule, a majority of the internet is ran on Linux.
So I'm wondering why, why Linux would not have been able to champion the whole at-home
server kind of situation, I mean, would that not be just an extension of what's already
happening on the internet, would that just be like a natural extension, what do you think
about that?
When we talk about the server space being mainly occupied, those are perhaps big corporate
servers and the domination is on the web.
Most of the web runs on Linux servers, but I'm not so sure that your small to medium enterprise
systems are dominated by Linux, just because most of your tech were first oriented with
Windows, they're probably more comfortable going with a Windows-based server than they
are learning a brand new operating system.
Look at the guys from PodNuts Pro, they both work for services that serve medium-size businesses,
to large-size businesses, but neither of them are obviously that experienced.
And in Linux, I think I would probably be more home-operate administering Linux server
than either of those fellows.
So I think in this face that Red's talking about, yeah, I'm not surprised it has been
previously dominated by Windows, I'm not sure all these small businesses have such a
fast internet connection, certainly not in a lot of parts of the country where the
cloud becomes a viable option, but I would, at least in my area, and I'm in a relatively
rural area, but you'd probably have a lot of techs who would attempt to administer a Windows
system and then be just completely lost running Linux system for a small business.
Gotcha, and it's one of those, you know, I sound like door right there, he always says,
gotcha, gotcha, look at that, I'm being influenced by my older mentors out there.
In any case, I take the heart exactly what you say, and I don't know, I want, I guess
I want Linux to go after more business.
I think that that's a good place to start.
I mean, if you can get the heart and the souls and the minds of business, wouldn't you
just naturally get the desktop anyway, or does the desktop even matter anymore?
Well, I think eventually that Linux is going to take a bigger chunk out of the desktops
where laptops, if you want to look at it that way.
A lot of people are using their laptops now and docking them or just using them themselves
as their desktop, and it makes it nice because they can just take their work with them.
But one of the things that's causing this shift is when you look at the cost of maintaining
a Microsoft system, the licensing, and if you want support, you definitely pay substantial
amount for your Microsoft support.
Whereas Linux, you can either maintain it yourself or you can pay to have it maintained
or pay for some support, that type of thing.
But the bottom dollar is it can be a lot cheaper, and there are actually countries that are
going, they're changing their whole system over to Linux.
There was a change, I believe it was a stock exchange in England that went from Windows
and paying tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars a year for licenses and maintenance
and support to just a minuscule amount, and it makes a big difference.
I think you're right, and I want to send this out, I've seen so many different reports
on the internet, sometimes in news about the desktop is dead, I've got to say this.
One thing about getting into technology and one thing about just getting into your computer
and everything, at first, when you're listening to everybody that's around you, it's kind of
like a static storm, it's a static storm in a sense of, you got all this data coming
at you and you're listening to all these different people.
You're trying to figure out who should I listen to, who should I not listen to, who's
crazy, who's not, and I got to tell you, that's a good phase, you got to go through that
phase.
But eventually, you're going to get to a point that your natural instincts, your natural
mind is going to kick in now, whether or not you're crazy yourself, I don't know, you
might be crazy, I know that I'm a little bit touched, but in any case, somewhere along
the lines, your natural instincts are going to kind of kick in.
Now, I got to say, this nonsense to me, and this might not be nonsense to you guys,
but to me, I think it's nonsense to think of the desktop being dead or the laptop being
dead.
Sure, I think that it may change a little bit, but I don't think it will ever be dead.
I don't think that there will ever be a time where some man or some woman won't want
to come home to their command center and play on their system, whether it be literally
playing on their system or crunching the data.
Now, of course, you're going to have more mobile devices out there, and Linux is getting
more and more is gaining more and more ground in the mobile arena.
Of course, you're going to have those kind of things, your iPads, your, you know, your
galaxies and that Zorawn that Kevin was talking about earlier.
But I don't think that it will ever become a time where laptops and desktops will ever
truly be gone.
I think it will change for more in a sense, but I don't think it will ever be gone.
What do you guys think?
I think they're going to stick around, well, in the first place, I don't see a desktop
laptop being used, say, for a studio production work.
I think that's going to be still a desktop system, if nothing else because of the graphic
power and, you know, you need a real strong system to do video editing, that sort of thing.
Audio.
Yeah, you could do it with a laptop.
I mean, there are a lot of systems out there that's got a lot of power to them.
But it still seems like it would be better if they went with a desktop and something like
that.
Yeah, but Red, how many people actually edit their audio and video?
I mean, they shoot a clip on their camera and they press a button and it gets uploaded
to Facebook or YouTube.
I think we are going to run into a problem that I think there always be desktops and laptops,
but they as the production numbers drop because people are finding that they, everything
that they really need to do, they can do on a cell phone and a tablet.
I mean, look at other parts of the world already.
A lot of places, the majority of citizens interface to the internet and to computing is become
a cell phone.
But I think it's for people like us who want to do some serious work on these systems.
Once production figures go down, the costs are going to necessarily go up.
We'll always be able to buy one, but we're going to have to shell out some more cash to
do it.
Yeah, that's true.
That's true.
I know this.
I'm working on a treadmill where I work that needs a new belt on it.
And I never torn one apart before, so I'm using diagrams and repair manual, which was lacking
in instruction.
And I, truthfully, I sat there looking on my phone, looking at the instructions, and
it's like, this isn't working out too well, I need something bigger.
Well, I have a cheap tablet that I picked up a while back.
It's like one of those $80 ones that doesn't do much of anything, but it does work for
reviewing PDFs, that sort of thing.
And I was sitting there looking at that, and it's like, okay, this is a seven inch, and
it's still, it's better than 4.3, but it's still not what I need.
I really need to sit down with a laptop or a desktop screen and read it that way.
It's just too hard to visualize what I was looking at.
That kind of a thing you could run into anywhere.
I still, a lot of people are saying, well, netbooks are dead, desktops are dead.
I don't think so, netbooks, they may be, it's hard to say, they got to the point where
they were beefing up to almost a laptop, and some of the laptops had gone down the other
direction.
But I think, yeah, netbooks are, netbooks are going to probably phase down, but as far as
the others go, I think those still have a good purpose, and when I was talking about editing
video and stuff like that, I was talking about more of the production type people, the ones
that are doing studio work, that sort of thing.
Well, I congratulate you on fixing that treadmill the right way.
My fix would probably be to lay down some duct tape along one side and just fire that sucker
up and roll the duct tape out as it goes around and around, and then it'd be fixed.
Well, the thing is, when you're working on something that would probably cost $2,500
to replace, if you bought a brand new one, it pays to look and see whether you can spend
about $700 to fix this one.
Right, that's just a joke, of course, but yeah, that's why I got the tablet because of
my eyes.
You know, when I first got to the cell phone, it wasn't so bad, but around the house,
and I started off with a nook e-book reader, and of course hacked it when they first came
out and never bought a book from Barnes & Noble, but just recently, you know, you talk about
the $80, you know, single core, what we call the Chinese tablets, and you can see them
now for those 40 or 50, if you look around, there is a slower dual core.
Oh, I am trying to think K5 has one.
It'll go for 60, and it's a dual core, but it's only 600 megahertz, but with the Kindle
Fire and the new Nook tablet, which are both dual core, pushing the prices down, starting
at 200, and at least the refurb market, you can make a real deal.
I mean, Dell streaks are under 150 now, so, and I think though, I'd call them the third
generation, if you call the original Chinese Android tablets the first, and then the
first single core, real tablets, as the second generation, and then the dual cores is
the third, and of course, sometimes we're going to see quad core tablets hit, but just
competition prices, there's no reason for somebody anymore to try to sell an Android tablet
the $300 range, and I think they're going to go back in there, because there's tablets
out there that are as good, or almost as good, well under $200, and I think we're going
to see them drop under 100 pretty soon.
Well, isn't it Google that's supposed to have one coming out, I think it may be next
year, that was, I think a quad core had HDMI output, and yada yada yada, a whole bunch
of stuff that was going to be $150, $200.
I wouldn't be at all surprised, and when those hit the previous ones, we'll drop to just
nothing, and there's also talk about the Mozilla Firefox tablet that will run everything
in a browser, kind of like the tablet version of the Google OS laptops, so there's going
to be competition, there's going to be Tizen, there's going to be a little closer to
real Linux, I guess Migos not dead, which I thought to become Tizen, so there's plenty
of room out there for competition, of course there, you have that HP WebOS tablets, which
went for nothing on clearance, and now they're trying to get double-form by reselling them,
and you have at least on the hardware specs, the Blackberry tablets aren't too bad, and
they're now under $200 easy in the refurbished market, and they're not as easy to jump
up to an OS that has more variety in applications, but I think that will probably come in time.
Yeah, and you talk about changing OSs, that's one thing that I guess Microsoft's doing
with their next version is they're trying to somewhat lock down the system so you can't
change the OSs with some type of proprietary arrangement in the processors, somewhere in
that area, that to me is kind of dirty, I mean they already take credit for machines
that people buy that they turn around, first thing they do is take Microsoft Windows off
and put Linux on, and sometimes they'll maybe put the Windows in a virtual machine, which
is one way of running Windows without having a big hassle on it, but you never know.
It's going to be interesting to see what happens in the next year or so.
Most certainly, it sounds like it's going to be a lot of interesting things coming our
way.
And if you get thirsty like I do, head on over to podbrewers.net where you'll find some
really great guys talking about how to brew beer.
Yeah, that's a really good site to go over to, I can't believe I didn't even think
to say that, but that is a really good site to go over to, podbrewers.net, if you want
to learn how to brew your own brew or just have some, you know, just have some fun.
Some fun, just talk with a few fellows in brewing and whatnot.
So back to the subject in hand.
Yeah, I think I pretty well covered what they had here.
Like I said, it's the var guy.
It's basically it's THE, V-A-R-G-Y dot com, and you can read the rest of the story there.
All right, awesome, awesome.
Well, we want to go ahead and move a little bit to the next subject matter.
And we have 5150 that's going to head off this one, 51, what did you find?
Oh, and this is a rumor, and I've heard it been confirmed, but I found the link on
escapistmagazine.com back from 5 June, author Greg Tito, and he says Gabe Newell from Valve
confirmed it via email, despite rumors that the pioneering game company was working
on a new console, and they still haven't finished Half-Life 3, Gabe Newell has become obsessed
with getting his digital distribution tool working on the Linux kernel.
So they've been talking about Steam, the Distribution Tool for Valve coming to Linux for years
and years since they ported it over to Apple operating system, and it seemed when they
looked in the code, there was code in there more to do if less than with Macintosh, of
course, the Macintosh OS is BD-based, which is another Linux Unix-like operating system,
BSD-Is Unix, and it's possible some of the code they found was just something easier
to port over because they've been written on the Linux side.
But the question is, and I'm not sure there's a great deal of games available for Apple,
but until the major game studios wake up, and until the two performance video card manufacturers
wake up and provide us with drivers, and I don't care if it's a binary blob, but unless
AT&I and Nvidia will provide us with drivers that will give us the same performance under
Linux on a particular piece of hardware as we would expect under Windows under the same
hardware, I really think this is a non-starter, and until the video game companies wake
up and realize Microsoft no longer considers the Windows operating system as a platform
for gaming, and they would rather you go buy a 360.
I, you know, the game manufacturers should just at this point turn their back on Microsoft
and said, well fine, we'll go with an operating system that actually works.
I agree with you, and you know, it's obvious that the Microsoft is doing what they're doing,
and this is a really good chance, really good opportunity for Linux to step up and have
you know, that gaming platform, but here's the thing, what I think is really important
with Steam is that if Steam is really dedicated to coming on over to Linux, the way it
seems that they are, with that happening, perhaps that will be what needs to light the
fire under the back sides of people like Nvidia and AT&I to like really say, okay, we're
going to support this because that nonsense about Linux not being able to, or Linux is
not a good platform for gaming, that's a bunch of BS.
I mean, just point blank and tell you the truth.
People should be pissed off that anybody even tells them that to tell you that, oh, this
is not a good platform for gaming, please, are you serious?
Any platform is good for gaming if it's developed for, and that's what it really boils
down to.
So what I'm hoping is, is that with Steam saying, hey, we ported over to Mac, we noticed
that there's a whole lot of Unix up in here.
Why could this not be, go out there and fund something like that and bring it to Linux
and watch just how much love you get?
Yeah, but I mean, it's one, one off game written for Linux isn't going to do it.
We need the same games that people are getting for Windows to be available for Linux.
We need the whole sweet port.
Nobody's going to set up a Linux for machine to play one game.
We need the same games that are available for Windows to be just as available for Linux.
And we'll take it from there.
You talk about just giving it a fair playing field, everybody develop, what would be nice
if you could just develop once and it just be ready for everything.
But then we're talking about something completely different at that point.
But I agree with you.
I agree with you 15.
All right.
Well, if there is nothing else on anybody else's mind, we're coming up on the one hour mark,
which I pretty much guess that that is a good time frame for this kind of thing for anybody
out there.
That is listening.
You will, if you haven't heard in the beginning of the show, this is a spontaneous podcast.
It doesn't have any followers as of yet.
But if you if you like it, I don't know, jump on over to pot brew, not pot brewers.
Listen to me.
Jump on over to Linux basics and come and join the forums.
I guess and say, Hey, I liked it when those guys just went online and just created this
podcast out of nowhere because I really don't have any, I don't have any information for
you to send us any feedback right now.
Come to Linux basics and check us out.
Check out red dwarf, check out of 5150.
Come check out me by our brown, come check out the door to door.
There's a whole bunch of people over here with a whole lot of love and will help you.
They helped me.
I'm still, you know, I'm in between that, I'm in that weird limbo zone between windows
and Linux, but I got to tell you, I find a lot of love over here and these fellas have
helped me tremendously and I will never, never turn my back on my, my friends here ever.
And that is, that's something I want, I want to share with you.
Come on over to Linux basics.com and you will find the grandeur that I, that I
have met here and I want to share that with you.
51, do you have anything that you want to say to the art listening audience?
Yeah, I just wanted to make sure somebody wasn't slided.
I was looking through the show support over here on mumble and we admitted the techie
geek and I hate to turn this into the plug cast.
You know, it's Russ Winners podcast and then Tracy Holt Holster has joined them in the
last year and I have learned more from those guys than maybe any other single podcast
and like they cover Linux and windows and general industry trends.
So that, that was the first actual real Linux podcast that I found.
So everybody ought to listen to those guys and they've got the incredible show notes that
are second to none, anything they talk about, you go right to the, to the site and click
on.
Go check them out at www.thetechiegeek.com.
Awesome and red dwarf, what's up, do you have anything to say to our listening audience
out there?
I definitely second that Tracy and Russ do an excellent job and Tracy is also interested
in a few other things like he likes movies and that sort of thing.
He's also another one of those pod brewer guys along with Byer Brown and Dordador Geek
and, okay, it's Mark Saber, that's who it was.
I know why I forgot him because he didn't show up tonight, that's why.
We all talk about pork Saber because we all wait around for him to come back tonight
and he never did.
And that's why we had this podcast.
I guess we kind of like just sitting around and I want to send a big shout out to Swans
Bob who is listening to us live right now.
Swans Bob is a great guy, he's a great guy, I know him personally and the fact that he
even popped up, I haven't had a chance to talk to him in years, not years, but maybe
about, I haven't talked to him in about a year.
And the fact that he even popped up in here just does my heart, you know, a lot of good.
But hey guys, what do you think?
We did it, we, I don't know, this was a surprise for you guys, I hope that I surprised,
you read and hope that I surprised you 50, what do you think?
Well, if nothing else, we succeeded in befuddling dude band.
Well, that is true, that is true.
And I'm seriously befuddled, I wonder what's going on here, he's like, what in the world?
Alright, I want to thank you so much for joining me here on this makeshift podcast and we'll
make sure that we do a little bit better in the future here.
I don't really even know what to say on this in fact, but all I got to say is everybody
that came out and listened, swans Bob and everybody, and listened to the podcast, you know,
I love you guys, thank you for being there, some of you people I don't even know, but you
were there, and hey, I love you too, because that's how it should be, enough of the wars
and all the other nonsense, let's increase the peace and peace out.
And if you guys been up to, we were sitting around here and talking, yeah, I mean, just
doing what we normally do, I told them right before it happened, I said, listen, this
is being recorded and it's being broadcast live and we're doing it right now.
Like I told them like literally like three seconds before we started and then we just
like, all right, let's go and boom, we just made, we basically made up a podcast out
of thin air, like in just a few minutes and it was awesome, it was absolutely a blast,
I had a blast, I'm hoping that they had a blast, that was my intention.
That sounds pretty excellent by good idea.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio, we are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday on the free Friday, today's show, like
all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener by yourself, if you ever consider recording
a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is, Hacker Public Radio
was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club, HPR is funded
by the Binary Revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are crowd-sponsored by
linear pages, from shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all
your hosting needs, unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative
commons, attribution, share a like, video's own license.
