Episode: 1842
Title: HPR1842: TiT Radio 20 You've Been Pwned (probably)
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1842/hpr1842.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 10:07:23

---

This is HPR Episode 1842 entitled,
TIT Radio 20 of B&B Double-Ned,
probably, and is part of the series TIT Radio.
It is hosted by 5150 and is about 126 minutes long.
The summer is, while Peter is on work about,
TIT Radio returns for a very short engagement.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello.
Hey, NetMonner.
Can hear me.
Yeah, I got you.
Just the things were pretty quiet.
I was finishing shoving HPR15.com.
Hello.
Hey, NetMonner.
Can hear me.
Yeah, I got you.
Just the things were pretty quiet.
I was finishing shoving a tuna wrap into my face.
No problem.
I just wondered if my gear was going down.
Can you hear me now?
Yes, sir.
Okay.
Am I high or low or about right?
Sounds pretty fantastic to me.
Great.
Well, I'm not usually on the PC,
but I want to be able to record tonight.
NetMonner, we're going to just show a little differently tonight,
because Peter's on vacation,
so there wouldn't be anybody to upload it to the KPO website
for, I guess, a couple of weeks.
So, I don't know if you've been listening to podcasts
for that long, but before KPO,
the same cast did a show called Linux Cranks.
And at the same time,
we've been off weeks called Tit Radio for Hacker Public Radio.
And since,
you know, Hacker Public Radio needs to show us anyway,
I thought we would do tonight's continuation of Tit Radio.
Well, I'm willing to step out or into the listening booth,
whichever works.
No, no, that's not what I meant.
You're more and welcome.
We need as many people in the room as possible for it to work.
Well, I kind of heard the plan last night,
so I figured something would be a little different,
but whatever you do with it is fine with me.
I know we pretty much had the same plan,
as far as format and everything goes since, like, day one.
So, no matter what the show's name is,
you can generally assume the plan's the same.
Well, as long as I'm not hosting.
Well, I think there was more Chad drinking in the original show.
Well, since I'm on some medications and make drinking,
anything except Coca-Cola or something like it.
Sorry, I can't fill in there either.
Well, as you guys know,
I usually do a pretty good job without myself.
Well, get things rolling there.
I mean, this has been a week,
and I don't have everything in the notes.
And I didn't get most of stuff that I bookmarked
in the last two weeks in the notes,
but two things have come out today.
Let me off to find it,
but apparently there is a low-level flaw
in most of, well, until the last,
maybe this last generation of Intel CPUs,
for about 10 years that would let somebody install a root kit
that would bypass secure boots.
So just give me a second to bring the article up.
I happen to be on an AMD GPU tonight,
and I'm on a pre-secure boot.
Yeah, but they say that's not going to help.
For compatibility with Intel processors,
the security researchers said that they didn't test AMD,
but since it has to copy Intel's architecture,
they're pretty sure AMD is going to have the same problem.
Windows 11, XP Mark II,
strictly for B4s and above,
strictly for B4s and below.
Okay, sorry.
I've got the article up now.
Apparently this goes clear back to 1997,
so pretty much if you're hearing my voice,
I think you can be sure your processor has this flaw.
It was disclosed Thursday at Black Hat by Christopher Domess,
D-O-M-A-S.
That'd be real easy to mispronounce.
And it's in the system management mode region,
S-S-M-M.
And essentially this is the area of the processor
that the secure boot depends upon to be secure.
So apparently the attacker could do anything
from just blanking your whole bios to rewriting it,
to put in a malware that would be at a level lower
than secure boot,
and there'd be no way to detect it.
Some processors, but not all of them,
or can be, I guess, the whole can be patched
through flashing the bios.
So let's probably one thing everybody should do
after they hear about this is to see
if your system manufacturer has a bios update.
I'm afraid there's probably going to be a lot of them
that just ignore this problem.
And I said, it's only been the just probably
in the last year that this has been corrected at Intel,
and of course they didn't want to broadcast it
for security reasons,
since it really wasn't fixable.
Now, you're going to have to have another attack vector
to get this on your machine.
In other words, you're going to have to have malware already
on your machine,
and the malware is going to have to have kernel-level access.
But if it gets that, then it can write itself
into the system management module,
and you're going to be hosed.
What about machines who aren't using secure boot?
I mean, there's a lot of us out here,
Windows 7, that barely have EFI.
No, it doesn't rely on you having
to have secure boot.
It's just secure boot's not going to detect it.
So, you know, any machine from 97 on up
is going to have this flaw.
What is that back to the days of P1s?
I'd have to look,
but I bet that'd probably be about that.
Well, I have a P1
that I was thinking of putting on the net,
but I haven't been able to find a Linux small enough
to fit it.
It's only got like 32 minutes.
DJ is inquiring on what's the policy on curse words,
and since this is radio and not KPO,
and we're not streaming, I don't think,
I say fuck it.
I like that idea.
Okay, the second vulnerability that came out today,
and this is another scary one,
this is Firefox.
So, again, unless you just don't use Firefox at all,
you're probably looking at this one.
It's probably not that widespread in the wild,
but the trouble is there's no way to tell if you've got it hit.
It's spread by an ads coming from Russia,
on new site in Russia,
and essentially they found a vulnerability in Firefox
that lets it go out there and grab files
and upload them back to the exploiter.
And it targets both windows and Linux machines.
So, in this case, we can't say,
oh, I'm on Linux, I'm not vulnerable.
And it, I don't think you say
you're saved passwords in Firefox or anything like that,
or a part of what was vulnerable,
but it goes after global configuration files
like slash Etsy slash password.
Also, looks for bashhistory.mySQL history.pgsql history.
And your SSH configuration files and keys.
So, well, this is configuring phase files for Remina.
File, okay, FileZill, not Firefox.
And so, if it gets you FileZill passwords,
then any site that you've got the password to
is potentially compromised.
PSI Plus, I'm not sure what that is.
And any text files with pass and password access
in the names and all your shell scripts.
And it's going after your SSH configuration files
and keys, it doesn't matter whether you're getting into,
whether you're accessing remote machines via your password
or whether you have a key file.
So, this, this, this, I doubt this has got very widespread play
and Firefox has patched it.
So, the first thing you want to do is go get the latest version of Firefox.
However, I didn't update on my Weezy machine today
and I'm still not up to the,
still didn't put me up to the latest version of Firefox.
Well, Ice Weasel rather than Firefox.
So, I don't know if it's just because Ice Weasel runs behind
or they're not doing full updates for Weezy anymore.
So, this, this, this is not good children.
Well, all I've learned so far is my laptop is screwed.
Yes, I, I, I think the name for this show is to,
is to, we were done off the show,
we take all our computers out and throw them in the,
in the trash pile because I think...
I'll get the gasoline ready.
Like I said, I don't see anything in there that says it could,
it could pull your save passwords from, for websites
or that if you, you know, that it had a key logger to,
to, you know, so your, your banking, your PayPal,
all that stuff, I guess, should be safe,
but you probably should be changing all the passwords on your networks
and, you know, people work from home, they probably need to,
you know, pressure their bosses to change.
Everybody's password, everybody's logging in password
for the entire network.
First, of course, Pat, the primary thing would get,
to get Firefox patched first.
So, I guess I'm going to have to try see if I can overwrite
the copy I have with a, with a newer downloaded copy
or doing, doing uninstall and reinstall or,
because, man, I just, I just moved in and I do not have time right now
to, to, to install a different operating system
or a different distro rather.
Surprisingly, they didn't, they, you know, they, they targeted
this to Linux, they have not targeted it to Mac yet, though,
Macs would, if they ever did, if the, if the pay,
they could just as easily write a payload to target Macs.
Well, I'm behind ad blocker, so most, most of the ads
would get trashed anyway.
Well, that's true. I'm glad, I'm glad you pointed that out
in that minor.
The article does make some mention that you might be more safe
if you have an ad blocker running to keep, to keep ads
from automatically popping up.
But it doesn't, I don't think anybody's saying, well,
you know, put your face in ad blocker and, and us,
and just assume that you haven't gotten nailed.
Oh, I'm going, I'm going to be updating my Firefox and stuff.
The one that I'm worried about is pale moon,
because on some of my machines, that's better than anything.
Well, I mean, this isn't going to be, this isn't going to
bode well for Firefox, because a lot of the people, you know,
who are looking for excuse to dump it in favor of Chrome,
or Chromium are probably going to,
going to, of course, Google's not infallible either.
It'll be them next week.
Yeah, and then you got the C monkeys,
which on my old P4 is about the best browser,
which I found a little weird.
I don't know, I've tried alternate browsers,
and I've always come back to Firefox and, and, and Chromium.
Well, I've got an early P4, and that's what I found over Firefox
was that C monkey on the same hardware would run a little better.
Yeah, you probably get, get rid of some of the bells and whistles,
you get, you get, you get some more speed out of it.
But a C monkey being updated anymore?
Yeah, it's been fairly well updated.
In fact, is it, uh, it beat out pale moon,
which is also an optimized, uh, lower bells, uh, Firefox?
Oh, okay, I thought, I thought the C monkey projected
gone in the suspension years ago.
Well, it's, it's still getting security updates and, and upgrades,
so it's just pretty plain compared to other stuff,
although because it is a, everything in one,
a lot of people throw it in instead of going with, uh,
you know, Firefox, uh, what, what else would you need?
You need, uh, Thunderbird, and you need, uh, an RSC client.
And next one I wanted to talk about is, I guess,
they also came up with a, uh, Android exploit this week.
It looks pretty bad. I, uh, I'm just opening the article now.
I don't have it in the show notes.
Most of those are, most of the stuff I put in the show notes
is carryover from, uh, two weeks ago, and we didn't have a show.
All right, so now we're going to go to our computers
and our phones.
I'm just going to go read a book, I guess.
Oh, it's worse than that. I haven't got to the jeeps yet.
Well, jokes on them. I don't drive.
Me neither. Also, uh, this is going to push YouTube
to go more subscription instead of ad supported.
Well, I got you could sneak this into something like a YouTube ad,
which plays as part of the stream anyway.
I, I suspect this is just something in a, in a flash ad.
And of course, yeah, well, that's one thing I do like about my, uh,
my flash is out of date and won't, and won't update in ice weasel.
So it asked me before I, before plays any flash video.
So I might be safe that way.
Now, would this affect the built-in flash player in Chrome?
Well, this is targeted to Firefox, so I suspect not.
Because, uh, I use Chrome to do pretty much anything flash related.
Like, I refused to stall, to stall install the flash player.
Okay, this is from Linux Insider.
And I guess it's a flaw in, uh, stage fright media player in Android,
which I hadn't heard of.
I don't, but I think that's something just part of Android.
It's not an app.
Uh, but, uh, Zimperium, uh, which I guess must be some sort of,
of collaboration of security researchers said there, they found several remote code
execution vulnerabilities in it that could be exploited.
They said, because I guess they're blaming because it's written in C rather than
articles say, a quote, uh, memory safe language such as Java,
which I don't understand why C would be, uh, more vulnerable than Java.
But it apparently it affects 95% of Android devices.
And anybody with Android versions older than 4.1 are extreme risk.
Now, well, this shouldn't worry you, Pegwall, you have an iPhone.
I had that thing for like four, maybe five days before I went, yeah, I can't do this.
Well, I applaud you for that at least.
Okay, sorry for the dead air folks.
Of course, once I edit this, there won't be any.
Um, this won't see if there's anything in this last two weeks where it didn't get
it in that we ought to talk about.
Uh, oh, now that we kicked this one to death last night on, uh, Linux logcast.
So, so we probably won't need to go in a very deep tonight, just people ought to be aware.
There's already an FCC regulations been enacted that says you can't use open source
firmware such as DDW RT on your router anymore because they did too many naughty people have been
turning, turning up the, uh, the power on their, on their Wi-Fi above what's, uh, what's legal.
So I, we, we kicked this round probably the way this is going to work.
I don't know about routers that are on the market to now I haven't looked to see.
I guess they need to look on new egg and see if they're still promoting routers with DDW RT pre-installed.
But I bet they, I bet those have probably disappeared.
And they're, I assume, uh, the way they're going to complies is, uh, sign the, uh, the firmware updates.
So that unless you're getting them from your update from the manufacturer, it's not going to install.
Oh, here's one. You remember a year ago we talked about ourselves on the back that, uh, the new auto, uh,
aiming sniper rifle was powered by Linux.
Apparently there's, uh, there's been some security research saying that the, uh, the security is very bad
on the, uh, on the, on the vert on the Linux that's installed on the rifle and could be remotely hacked.
Now they can't make it pull the trigger by itself because that's a purely mechanical connection.
But the, uh, the aim, somebody could get in remotely and, and throw the aim way off.
And you guys still with me?
Yep.
Okay, I, I hadn't had any comment on the last couple of stories.
I want to, I want to make sure it didn't break down on my end again.
Oh, yeah, I, I just occurred to me.
I can, since I'll have to do the show notes anyway, I can always put all these in after the fact.
Um, let me see, I'm sorry guys.
I was not as prepared for this evening as I had hoped to be.
Of course, we've all, we've all seen this week about the, uh, the drone delivering drugs to the prison in Ohio.
So it's too bad.
Peter's not here tonight to discuss that.
Yeah, and when Amazon gets its drones, they can deliver almost anything, including personnel.
And I guess I had two.
And, uh, since I hadn't read them, I didn't know they were different.
There, there's, uh, two Android exploits out there this week.
One, this other one, uh, traps the device in an endless reboot.
It's vulnerability is known as CVE-2015-3823.
And I guess it's similar to the stage fright bug.
And it, it, it affects from jelly bean to lollipop.
And it could either come in through a malicious Android app or specially crafted website.
Okay, and here's how it works.
And then on the website, they have a dot MKV file.
And I guess it, uh, it uses the stage fright player and, uh, sticks the phone in an endless reboot loop.
I guess there's a way to get through it is to reboot your device in safe mode.
Because you get that by holding the power button down and pressing the power off option until you see a pop-up asking you to restart in safe mode.
That will disable all third party apps and allow you to use the phone until a patch is released.
See here, we've, we've finally found one tonight we can fix.
Well, at least we got that one going for us.
And, uh, okay, let's, let's go ahead and talk about this.
I wanted to bring this up because it's, uh, I was told so many times it wasn't likely to happen a few weeks ago.
Some security researchers, uh, were, were able to remotely access the cam bus and the late model Jeep.
And we're able to disable the brakes, uh, take, uh, take over the throttle control.
Um, and of course they did this and, uh, well, they did it on the open highway, but it's on a highway that weren't any other cars on.
And may have been a little, uh, overgent, dramatic, but, uh, the driver wound up putting the car down in the ditch to, to bring it to a stop.
And that, and the, and the video went viral.
And I didn't, I didn't ever see it on the national news, but I didn't, I wasn't watching a lot of news.
Um, you know, this, I'm surprised how many people outside of our little hacker community, you know, about this.
You know, people have not, no technological, um, interest generally have, have heard about this.
Now I will applaud Chrysler in one aspect.
It took him, I think about a week to get a patch out and essentially they've sent a USB, um, thumb drive to all their, um, to all their dealers.
So it, and immediately issued a recall. So I guess it's, it's fixable, but I, I love, well, I, uh, I'm, they, they've blocked the particular exploit that the hackers used to get into the system.
But still, you, you, you have, uh, the canvas involved with the, with the radio system and entertainment and all that, where, like, uh, where it never should have been.
So that, you know, the basic flaw is going to still still persist and somebody else is going to find another way into the system.
Also dealerships are far too limited a, um, vector for getting something that this deadly fixed.
Right. How many people are actually going to take their car in? I mean, if, if it's me, I'd have been there pounding on the door the next morning, but, uh,
uh, how many people are actually going to take this seriously enough to have it fixed?
The only place you can guarantee, and that's not a real big guarantee is going in and having every state inspection station do it.
Yeah, but that, you know, in, in my state, we don't have annual inspection of any kind.
Just saying for, for like the, the high density states that use it as a main represent stream.
No, I agree. And, uh, and probably every manufacturer is going to have a similar flaw once people start looking for it.
So I, uh, I had said it's going to take a death to, uh, for somebody to do something about this, at least it didn't take anything that drastic, but I've seen some places where security researchers are saying,
well, this is horrible. You actually did this on a, on a highway and you took, you put other people's lives at risk. But, you know, it, it, if it hadn't been done, I think it just be us talking about it on the pot on our little podcast.
It never, it, if there hadn't been such a dramatic video out there to show what happened. Then, uh, it's, it's, it's a, it's a problem that still would be ignored right now. Nobody would have done anything about it.
So, you know, I applaud the researchers who prove that this was possible. And hopefully going forward, perhaps it'll make the car manufacturers rethink, uh, the vulnerabilities in their design.
Yeah, actually, you, you, what you need to do is equip every steady with a, uh, with a thing that can read the rev of the firmware in your machine. So when you pull somebody over, you check it. And if your car is running date, a dangerous rev of firmware, he'll pull you in.
Well, that, that could be one possibility or definitely all these crash testers, they, they need to develop a, uh, computer security program to go or rating go along with it.
You know, hire these guys to, to, uh, test every car comes out and see the whole trouble is most people don't think they look at it and they're shocked, but they don't think it ever happened in the real world that anybody is going to, well, let's face this probably, there's probably easier ways to kill somebody if you wanted to.
But you know, there's a bunch of hackers out there right now just looking, I shouldn't say hackers, uh, because that applies to all of us, but crackers trying to, you know, now if they know it's possible, there's going to be a bunch of people looking to do it and some of them are going to be malicious and just ride down the highway and say, hey, let's see if we can, we can crash this guy's car.
They're also able to do things like turn the windshield wipers on and hit the wiper fluid and, and, uh, change the radio station.
And this.
Go ahead, DJ.
Would it be like really creepy if you're just like sitting there in your car and you're like, oh man, it's starting to rain, I need to hit the windshield wipers and you hear a voice suddenly over your radio goes, I got your back and just turns them on for you.
Well, I'm certain we'll probably have AI like that pretty soon. What do you mean you can't talk to your car?
But it's, uh, they said they could even get it control the steering in while the car was in reverse.
So, uh, apparently it's got one of those auto park systems.
But I would think on, on something like that, it's got to be designed so you could override it with the steering wheel. Otherwise, steering will spin around and you break the guy's thumb. So just for safety.
I doubt if taking over the steering would be, though, I don't know if you made somebody able to make somebody do a sudden swerve in traffic or something like that.
Just sitting there driving along after they flip on your windshield wipers, it's just quiet. Then suddenly here, I don't like this radio station. Can we listen to something else? I'm gonna listen to something else. Are we there yet?
I guess they could, they, yeah, they got the air conditioning.
They, they put the transmission in neutral and, you know, and they turned off the accelerator, which, you know, for that, you could, you know, that's got to be dry.
By wire with a, with electronic fuel, electronic fuel injection. With the fact that they can remotely do the brakes. That's, that's scary. I guess that has to, must have something to do with anti lock brakes. But, uh, I would want to have a vehicle that even had that, you know, if, if you had a bad wire someplace that suddenly you got no brakes.
No, I guess this wasn't on an, on an open road. This, he said, you know, they cut his power and then he had an 18 wheeler coming up behind him.
Well, I guess these guys have done this before. In 2013, they did the same thing with a Ford escape and a Toyota Prius.
Prius, that they, uh, that they disabled the brakes, honk the horn, jerk the seatbelt. Wow. And comedy or the steering wheel.
So yeah, this is reported back two years ago. And, and nobody's, nobody on the national scene took, uh, must have paid any attention.
Okay, that was, all right. That's the, they were wired directly into the diagnostic port two years ago. They weren't doing it over Wi-Fi.
Okay. And, uh, I guess I'd read this article through. I guess there's, uh, Center's Ed Markey and Richard Blumenthal were planning to do a automotive security, uh, bill to set digital standards for cars and trucks.
And apparently, of course, they can, they have full access to the GPS so they can track you this way.
As you have to know, the IP address of the car, it's essentially, it's, it's like on star. They've built, they've built in, uh, you know, full cell phone in, into the car.
And, uh, Oracle did mention that on star had been used by law enforcement agencies to actually record conversations inside a car on, on monosis suspects. In other words, they showed up at, uh, on star with a, with a warrant and, uh, told them to start recording everything that was in that car all the time.
And this should work on any Chrysler with you connect from, uh, late 2013 and up to early 2015. So perhaps this is something that's been, been corrected.
Since we are talking about things being poned here, um, can we talk about this, the, uh, what is a site, Ashley Madison?
Oh, yeah, we missed that too. Oh, man. Well, I'm glad I'm not on that site. And for the listeners, Ashley Madison is the, is the cheating or cheaters website where you're supposedly, if you want to cheat on your spouse, you create the account and you find someone else who wants to.
She wants to cheat on, on their spouse and help it helps you get together. And, uh, I guess some hackers got in and they were, they were able to get plain text copies of pretty much all the records in their plant.
They essentially told Ashley Madison one of two things either you guys shut down or we're going to publish the records of all your clients.
And for those listening, um, the 50's not exaggerating when he says it's an adultery site. I mean, their slogan is Ashley Madison, have an affair.
Another really kind of shitty thing they do is if you sign up for their website and you go, you know, I really don't want to use this anymore. Uh oh, I think like, you know, my significant others on to me.
If you want to delete your account and everything, you have to pay them, I think it's 20 bucks, something like that.
And one thing they found out in this whole leak and everything is that people's profiles and everything that they've paid to delete are really just unlisted.
And they got a lot of the credit card information of those people that decided they were going to pay to have their account, quote unquote, deleted.
Well, that's weird. They got just the credit card information of the people who wanted their accounts deleted, not everybody's.
Well, no, you have to put your credit card information in to delete it. If you just sign up, then you just sign up.
The only way to get your stuff off of there is by paying them.
Oh, so that's how they make their money for for people, uh, deciding to get rid. So the service is free until you decide to cancel.
As far as I know, I haven't used it. I mean, I don't have any reason to have enough fare.
And I'm just clicking around through some of the stuff that I had for last week.
Of course, for years, we've had the fake antivirus programs. I mean, you could buy the software and roll your own on windows.
It comes up and tells you every, every file on your, on your computer is infected and it won't let you get into anything until you send them 20 bucks.
Apparently, this is happening to Mac users. It's, it's coming up as a dashboard pop up and telling them they have to give them an 800, it says apples detected a security error.
Uh, suspicious activity. Please contact Apple certified live technicians at an 800 number.
So this is kind of this is kind of a combination of the, uh, uh, of the fake antivirus program plus the, uh, Microsoft help center in India.
And if I, if I'm walking on you guys at times, it's, it's not intentional. I'm working with only one screen here this evening. So I can't see both the mumble and the articles at the same time.
Now we're talking about ad blockers earlier this evening.
Uh, I'm, this is I think a solution sort of working for a problem, but there is a distribution for the Raspberry Pi called Pi whole that if you plug it into your network, it becomes a, uh, an ad blocker for the entire network and all it's doing.
And I think it's, it, it's spoofing the I, it, well, it gathers from all the various services that track domains from advertisers.
And then it, it spoofes though, being those domains on your, on your network. So it kind of seems to me like a waste of Raspberry Pi.
Uh, but of course they don't cost that much in the first place.
To me, that is one of the absolute like coolest things about them is anytime you see some kind of article. It's like, oh, hey, you can do this craziness with a pie. Just go, yeah, probably buy another one. Then I can do that and just leave it.
The one I wish Peter would be here for, uh, I've got so many tabs. I can't read them. So I'm just clicking randomly on tabs.
Uh, that sinus at, let's see, where, where is it? University, uh, essentially, they're, they're networking rat brains and, uh, monkey brains to turn them into super computers.
And essentially, I guess they get them networked and then they put a realistic monkey arm on a display in front of them. And if they all work together.
Oh, yeah, that's right. One of them has like the right left movement of the arm and the other one has up, down movement of the arm. And if they use the arm and click on the right target on the screen, they get juice.
I guess one of rats was kind of like they put them in once they had one rat successfully running through the maze, then they networked at the other rat brains and they found the other rats solve the maze faster.
So I, I think within 10 years will have human centipede supercomputers.
And this is one should make everybody smile. Apparently a few weeks ago, uh, Facebook's new security chief, uh, sort through down the gauntlet to Adobe and asked them, can we, can we set a date for the end of flash?
I've been complaining about flash on Facebook for a very long time. If, um, if you put a gift on Facebook or Jeff, if that's how you prefer it, it requires you to have the flash plug in to play it back.
And well, this is still from zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero,
zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero,maz, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, no, zero, zero, zero, zero pro.
the whole thing had been abruptly canceled.
Of course, it's hard to think of anything this would be used for other than the various
applications, however, people who are advocates of privacy would say, well, they have every
right to hide the fact that they have nothing to hide.
Now, it does say ham, but it says proxy ham devices would not break the SCC standards
as the 900 megahertz antennas were captured in one lot limit.
So, they're saying probably couldn't have been the SCC that forced them to stop research.
But they were supposed to be a defcon talk on it, which got canceled as well.
But the NSA does want to help us harden our networks so they've released a Linux-based
tool called SIMP and bring essentially what it does like pen testing through from the inside.
So, you run this on your network and it points out the vulnerabilities.
Because, of course, NSA is, while they like to spy on us, they're also concerned about
foreign governments being able to do the same thing.
So, I get an open source tool, a lot of the Linux security
contingent trust SC Linux, which is also developed by the NSA.
So, probably, you know, it's, you know, they used to say trust, but verify.
You know, probably we should be saying trust, but do a code inventory or whatever you call,
oh, I'm blanking on the term.
But, you know, there were somebody ought to be taking a look at the code on this, but it's probably,
you know, as advertised at face value trying to get people to do something about the lack security on their networks.
Have you guys heard of the Commodore phone?
No, but I'm, that sounds really interesting.
That's called the Commodore pet.
It's pretty much black and white, you know, made look a little retro.
I mean, as far as a smartphone could be said to look retro.
But, let's say it's running a 1.7 gigahertz octa core,
media tech processor, 13 megapixel rear facing camera, with the dedicated shutter button,
3000 milliamp battery.
But, let's, but it's running.
It has customized emulators for Commodore 64 and Amiga games.
Let's go sell for about.
But doesn't, doesn't have the video toaster.
I remember when the video toaster came out that that sounded like a lot of processing power.
And now, you know, we carried more than that around our pocket every day.
But I wouldn't be surprised to see somebody come out with one for it.
Now, article I'm looking at doesn't say that it is running anything about the operating system,
whether it's running an operating system made to look like the old Commodore system, probably not.
Doesn't look like it's going to be available in this country.
Unfortunately, they're selling it in Europe.
But if you want the same hardware, apparently it's an or tech wall phone with a different logo on it,
which is interesting.
So I guess if you got that, perhaps you could, you could side load the emulators.
But article does say the wall phone costs about half as much as the Commodore phone.
So one of you can't talk now.
So one of the URLs for one of the stories here, it caught my eye.
It says movie studios keep asking Google to remove pirated content on their own computers.
And what made me laugh is it has the website of the URL.
It has the date there.
And then the actual story, like chunk of the URL is just ha ha ha ha ha ha.
Let me look at that because I'm certain I've got it open.
Well, I'm looking for that.
Did you, while you had your iPhone, Pegwall, did you ever ask it to increase the charge to 100?
No, what does that do?
Apparently it calls 911.
This is something they fixed quickly.
But for some reason, I'll get, I'm reloading the page here.
So there was a certain phrase about increasing the battery charge to 100.
If you said that to Siri, Siri would dial the police.
I expected something they had in their testing, testing Siri.
And they used a knock, what they figured would be an inoculous phrase.
And nobody, somebody forgot to take it out.
Yeah, if you got in a Siri and said, charge my phone 100%.
It would try to call 911, but did give you a five second window to cancel the call.
So I'm, you know, I don't know if this was supposed to be some sort of panic button built in the Siri.
And they just use a phrase they didn't think anybody would ever, would ever say.
Or, you know, or for something like it's supposed, it was supposed to be, you know, if you had, if you had somebody coming in a bank.
And, you know, I guess you wouldn't let him, you wouldn't want him to hear you say Siri called 911.
It's too, it's too bad we, you don't still have your iPhone.
That's one I would like to have tested live on the air.
I'm still looking for your article, uh, peg wall, but, uh, yeah, more, more depressing news.
Of course, there was an open SSH bug found.
So it's been patched, of course, by now.
Essentially, the way it worked is that SSH should, you know, sort of time out or only let you have so many tries.
That, uh, putting in a password before, before resets, but, uh, looks like that, that was defeated somehow just a minute.
Okay, I guess it is that the default for timing out is two minutes and somebody found a way to do it in a loop and go through.
You, that's more than enough time to, to, uh, try the quote commonly used passwords.
Oh, peg wall, did you, uh, happen to listen to the last show that we posted on KPO?
Uh, no, I haven't, it is in my pod catcher.
I'm so far behind on podcasts right now, it's kind of unreal.
Okay, there was a link in there.
We were sorry you weren't here for.
There was, uh, oh, um, uh, well, it was essentially somebody with, uh, low vision.
And they made a set of goggles for and now she can see her children for the first time.
It'll be in the show notes for the, uh, like I said, for that last show.
And I didn't know if you'd ever heard of any, uh, of, you know, of any device like that.
Essentially, I guess you'd have to settle for walking around with innocuous rift on your head, uh, wherever you go for, uh, for all time.
But that's essentially what it looked like, except that, you know, of course it had, uh, cameras on the front of it.
And we're somehow able to, um, you know, and then, then an amplified, amplified.
And I think it also costs like $150,000, which they got for this woman through donations.
So I'm saying, sure, I thought, surely we can open source this because it looks like it's about $300 worth of electronics in the thing.
But netmonger pointed out that maybe the, you know, $150,000 was to adapt that to the particular, uh, you know, mapping it to the particulars of that woman's eye.
In other words, it was more medical research and all that, rather than the device itself, which costs $150,000.
Oh, I found the link and it actually is ha ha ha ha ha ha.
The link there in IRC.
Yeah, that's it. That works. That brings up the article.
Yeah, I don't know.
Yes, they're own, uh,
post.
Host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host host
to upset
it's apparently it's a bit or feed and the club here.
A bit to our client running on one, one of the computers in their in house computers.
And there's about a several of them, universal asked them to take down machines, sharing
47 Ronin, some other stuff.
Essentially what it is, their old employees are bit-tourning, copyrighted content to their
work computers, while they're at work, and so all the addresses come up as local host,
so that probably even from that information they're probably even untraceable by the companies.
Let's focus reds.
Give me a memory, memory, memory, memory, memory, memory, memory, memory, memory, memory,
memory on a close windows on this computer.
And while I'm doing it, I won't be able to read any articles to be able to tell you
anything.
Alright, sorry about that, folks, I'm back, oh, I started to show off two browsers open
because I had one of the stories from last week and the other one, I wanted to access
some of the stories that have come up in the two weeks between shows, and I could just
see from how laggy the system was getting, I was going to crash the whole thing if I didn't
kill one of the browsers.
So that's where I've been for the past, well, it'd be silence and you won't even know,
wouldn't even know that I've been gone, but in any case, that's what happened.
In some instances, when you just kind of flagged out there, it would just take like the last
word you said and just keep repeating it, it was kind of tripping.
Well, I'll make sure I leave that in then.
I don't know if it picked it up on your end, but I'm recording here, so it definitely picked
it up on mine.
Yeah, once I check my recording, I'll let you know if I need yours, but thanks for
doing it for recording as well, because I was afraid here, the way the system was slowing
down, I might crash and burn and lose everything.
I do think that mumble records as it goes, so I think if you crash mumble, you still wouldn't
lose everything that you'd been recording.
Well, in one instance there, I call it, it says focus, focus, focus, focus, focus,
re, that was it.
Now, this implant that reverses macular degeneration is called the Argus 2, made by a company called
Second Sight.
Of course, we're getting outside of the open source stuff, but every once in a while,
I like to bring you the interesting technological and scientific articles.
This is an electrode, it's a ray embedded in the eyes, retina, a battery, and a wireless
antenna.
Okay, and then there's a pair of glasses, yes, to wear, that that's where the camera
is actually placed.
So, it didn't place the camera inside his eye, but it does go to the nerves at the back
of the eye, and if anybody wants to look at the article to be in the show notes, because
it does go into pretty big explanation of what macular degeneration does, which I won't
go into.
This is interesting.
I think we'll probably, with research like this, I think we may find a time when maybe
even full on blindness is reversible.
One of the bigger problems of reversing full on blindness is even when, you know, even
with today's advancements in that, if they do get vision, they don't really know what
to make of it because their brain can't figure it out anymore.
So usually a lot of people go, yeah, I want that reversed because they're used to being
blind, and that's how they're used to experiencing the world, and suddenly they're being bombarded
by information they can't process.
Well, I can certainly see how that would be pertinent to people who have been blind from
birth, but I didn't realize that that's something, you know, if you've lost your, if your
sight's been gone for a number of years that you wouldn't be able to adapt to it.
As far as I understand it, even, you know, if you've been blind for a couple of years,
it could happen because your brain just goes, all right, well, I don't need that part
of me anymore, so we'll rewrite that to do something else.
Well, that's kind of depressing, of course, you know, if they, if they develop this, then
they can probably immediately apply it to accident victims or something where before
they lose their, you know, ability to process that information.
I mean, I could be wrong there.
If I am pleased someone, tell me so, but as far as the limited reading I've done, that's
what I know there.
And there's another interesting article in here that Docker implemented in a hundred
lines of bash.
So that's something I, I was going to say after the Firefox vulnerability, we really, that,
that shows me we really do need Docker on the desktop to just to put everything in a sandbox.
But I guess that would probably take away, you know, the ability for say Firefox to load
any local HTML files or play video, if you're playing video for your browser or something
like that.
But, you know, I, I think I, I think I could live with that if I, if I had a file that
I wanted to, to open up in Firefox, moving into the Firefox Docker space, if, you know,
if Firefox having access to every file on my hard drive is, you know, is an attack vector
and apparently it is.
I've been thinking about that Intel problem.
You know that somebody's put Linux on a microcontroller by first emulating an ARM chip.
Okay.
Boots a little slow, two hours to a bash prompt.
Oh, you mean the ARM emulator?
The microcontroller running an ARM emulator so it can run ARM Linux.
Clearly a hack, but it was cute.
Right.
Um, apparently all we already have containers on our system, at least anybody using Google
programs.
Anytime you, you search Gmail, Google Docs, it's running in its own container system called
LMCT FY or let me contain that for you.
So it's too bad that perhaps the Firefox isn't running similar technology.
But Google announced that Ozcon on July 21st, Kubernetes, it's an open source container
deployment and management tool that's not surprising since Docker was sort of written originally
on Google OS that this seems to be a separate container system than Docker.
As an aside here, you know Firefox is going multi-threaded sometime in the fall, I think.
Some site price it hasn't been already since we've had multiple processors common for
what, five years now.
Well, I think it's been an artifact in a lot of the more cutting edge versions and they're
still trying to get it nailed down and perhaps also add sandboxing or what have you.
Now, this article says, Kubernetes is a strange that I haven't, we haven't heard of this
or I never have, but says it's made its way into practically every cloud except Amazon
which uses its own EC2 container service.
So I heard a little bit about it back along.
I don't know, I think I'd be more, I'd be happier if they would pick a standard and run
with it, but then again, competition is good.
That's the way you get the best out of every system is by not relying on one monolithic
standard.
Yeah.
One thing, you know, we got so many virtualization standards here and getting them cross-operable
is going to be a require something, some kind of shame even if we don't go full Docker.
This is a local article I was proud of.
I found out when I came back from Kansas Linux Fest that there were a couple of lugs in
Wichita.
One is the Wichita State University Lug and I found out with this article that it's not
just for university faculty and students, so I plan to, I think they've suspended meetings
for a couple of months, they take a break and then when they resume this fall, I intend
to drive up there and intend to, you know, the occasional meeting.
But this is off of the Wichita Eagle, that's the local newspaper, or the Wichita
News Paper website and talks about the Wichita State Lug bringing young kids, looks
like, you know, some around eight or ten older teenagers and teaching them to use Linux.
Yeah, I need to get back from doing my local MIT Lug.
And Arkel does talk about the other, we'll see that when I came home, I didn't, I had
links to both lugs and it didn't seem like the non-university lug was doing much, but
apparently they are active too, so I'm going to have to, I'll have to check them both
out.
Arkel's behind it says, Linux can't, can't do Netflix and we know that's wrong now.
And I'm surprised the other than that, Arkel is fairly detailed and, you know, one
of the things they suggest, use case for Linux is putting it on old XP computers that
can't be, can't be viably upgraded to Windows 7, so they get some of it at least.
They talk about, it's not, it's not vulnerable to malware, of course we've seen today, that's
not exactly the case, but of course it's saying that it points out that malware designed
for Windows isn't going to be, isn't going to be able to affect Linux.
Yeah, it's actually why they keep certain old grain species because the current monoculture
they use, the grain is a genetic backup for, you know, monoculture is anywhere like Windows
or what have you, tend to be targets for whatever nasties come by, and if you have some
other kind of stuff in the wings, at least you have a way around the primary monoculture.
Oh yeah, wheat is one thing that has really changed in the 40 years since, you know, I
started helping out on the farm, I mean, I do, some people who don't think that maybe
some of the genetic changes that have been made, and this isn't genetically engineered,
this is just crossbreeding to increase yields may be responsible for some of these gluten
allergies that we're seeing now.
Certainly, you know, when I was a kid growing up, I never heard of anybody being allergic
to gluten.
I knew some people would be allergic to peanuts, but not to this point now where, you know,
you can't have peanut butter in a school cafeteria, just be afraid that somebody has an
allergy, knows they have an allergy, but peanut butter is going to make themselves a peanut
butter and jelly sandwich and die.
You know, we're just, you know, let's grow it up, and you know, you'd never heard of this
stuff.
So I'm glad at least that the older strains or the older varieties are being maintained
in case there does kind of a point where we can point to, okay, we goofed at this point,
we need to go back.
Well, I know one project is growing what they call heritage grains corn, and you know
where they got the grain, they're restoring an old corn shell or something, and it had
old kernels in it.
So they started up a little, you know, plant a few, plant a few next year, plant a few
next year type of thing so that they're, I don't know how it's going, but they took
out of their old prepared corn shell or some, you know, a handful of old kernels, and
they're trying to get some kind of sort of ancestral crop, you know, like, you know, 1900
or whatever you want to do.
Well, that's, that's interesting, because, you know, like I said, if you want to go back
to plant eagle wheat or turkey wheat, which is, you know, everybody, when I was a kid,
that's what everybody planned was eagle, it was tall, you know, before, before we had
the varieties, if you folks out there, and I know a lot of, a lot of people say, why
are you talking about farming?
You know, since I've got started farming, we've gone from the pretty, wheat is pretty close
to what was brought over from Russia in the 1800s to the dwarf varieties, and of course
they were bred, because if you're not, if you're not putting your production into a big
tall stock, then you've got more, more left over to go in the grain, make more, make
a bigger head.
So, you know, so there's, there's been a lot of science in my lifetime, go, go into
the selective breeding of wheat, make a higher profitable product, but, you know, I, I
hope some place they do, they are still growing the old tall varieties, like I said, in
case we've, we've, we've figured out that we're talking about, maybe someone along the
way, there were mistakes on YouTube, but I mean, it may have been a seed company type thing,
it sounds like it, but they've even made a multi-seed cover crop mix, and they say that
that can be more effective, because you're not relying on just, you know, alfalfa or
what have you arrived for, you know, for your fellow regenerating fellow fields, or non-cropped
field.
Well, that sounds interesting.
It reminded me a lot of, when I saw some old pasture up in Wisconsin being plowed under
for the first time, so that they could turn it back into grain field after they went
out of dairy operation, what the multi, you know, multi-variety cover crop is basically
trying to sort of replace the old, well, we'll plow it this year and pasture it next year
type thing.
Yeah, we had the opposite problem here that, you know, we have people, because of set aside
programs and such, we've people plowing up stuff that should have been left to pasture,
you know, breaking it out for the first time.
Yeah, well, you got to remember, I have some experience in Maine, what they consider
good fields most people wouldn't even use for pasture.
One of the past years biggest crops was juniper.
Well, you could have made gin at least, and I have an article here about, you know, perhaps
our wearable devices will be powered directly from the human body one day.
They talk about the nerve impulses that go from the cochlea to the brain, and it only
runs about a tenth of a volt, but they say that would be enough to power a hearing aid
without batteries.
And I guess they're also, they've tried it on a guinea pig and generated enough power
to power a small radio transmitter.
I remember, well, I guess they still, they must still have them, but we had, as younger,
I used to have a self-winding watch that, you know, it essentially had a weight on a
pendulum on the inside, as you moved around, that weight would constantly be finding the
lowest spot, and so that would, that would wind the watch, so you wouldn't have to wind
the watch every morning, and I'm surprised something like that hasn't been, you know, implemented
in the cell phones, at least as a secondary charging force.
I don't know, some, some even some modern watches might use something like that.
Well, I'm certain, I mean, this is purely a mechanical watch.
Yeah, I do, I do think there are some on watches, but I'm surprised it hasn't been implemented
to other devices might not be enough to power device, but might stretch it a couple hours.
Yeah, well, if, if they're putting solar cells on backpacks and hats, so you can charge
whatever, that's not, that's no crazier.
Yeah, it talks about researchers successfully generating electricity from beating hearts.
Yes, that moves far enough. Wands, those are constantly moving, and diaphragms of sedated
cows in cheap, cheap, by attaching ultra thin, pizio electronic material into the organs.
You know, I think you could do it in the joints or something like that. Of course,
power doesn't come for free. I mean, you're still, you know, if you've got resisted,
using resistance to create electricity, then your muscles are going to have to push through
that resistance, but I don't, I think it would be so small in amount, you would never feel it.
Yeah, well, another reason to take this there is, they're also talking about using the heat
difference between the air, air in your lungs to, to, to generate electricity.
Well, I don't know, but I remember some of the heat pumps that I was keeping an eye on had a
working temperatures of about 70 degrees. And if you look at any air conditioner these days,
they're putting out a heck of a lot more than that. So they could, they could sink that energy into
something. And I know for a fact that on subway trips when you're in the, the northeast where
they don't have the good ventilation, it gets mighty hot right there in the tunnels. You get
cool when you're in the air condition. And the part that talks about maybe using burning glucose
or blood sugar to, you know, I wonder if the, if you did, you know, you could generate, generate
the, generate your energy from excess sugar and people whose diets aren't work, what they should
be. And then maybe by burning that, I help them lose weight. So that might be an interesting
aspect of this eventually. Yeah, I could just see a cell phone charger being an exercise bicycle
in the lobby. Well, I know there's another source of energy that they haven't thought about
your chair. True, everybody's probably constantly fidgeting in their chair.
Well, I'm just thinking you're always getting up and down.
I was thinking more of like the, the office chairs like I have that can kind of rock back and forth
except mine would be really, really annoying. Well, I know that they put in generators that are
powered by the, you know, the revolving doors. How about a gaming rig where your cell phone
charger is powered by the heat from your eyes, you know, 25 CPU ride or attaching all the bit
cord minors. And there was a complaint, but I'll go ahead. I was going to say, you know, you
and I, and others have been thinking about putting up these little, what you call it,
routers and such. There's enough way of seat coming off of a lot of servers that
if they could just sink it into turning it back to electricity that they could certainly run,
run a lot of low energy devices, low access points and such.
Right. Like you said, you get, you have to use a lot of air conditioners to keep
data centers cool. If they could just put a turbine on all that outgoing hot air,
like they could probably recover quite a bit of it.
Well, I know back in the day, now these are back in the days of dinosaurs that somebody
moved the data center into a warehouse using deck 20s. And he said he didn't have to put in a furnace
in. I certainly believe that. Well, of course, that was with pure dexie power supplies. One of the
side projects of Confuser was putting in switching power supplies, making big ones for their
deck 20 stuff. And I think they made a sideline of actually selling them because the big
switchers were a lot more efficient than the linear supplies that deck was turning out for their,
for their sort of mainframe systems. Well, it's always good when you come up with an
innovation for your own business. And then you find a way to market that to other people.
Well, I get a kick out of back before the turn of the century. I was at MIT when they had the
big Honeywell, the 36 bidders. That was supposed to be a basically computing, sort of like a central
generating station, which is to say exactly what they're doing with all of these
vastly multiple virtual service systems, digital ocean and company. Somewhere there's these big
data centers and people are just putting a full VM on there for their private machine.
I don't know with Docker, do you need a full body in there or is it a reduced core?
Well, that's an interesting question. I think pretty much it's a full system with Docker's running
on top of, but at least you could run everything in one virtual machine or one bare metal machine
rather than having a different VM for each website that you're running. Yeah, a new Docker
had to run on on a some kind of bare metal OS, but what you put inside Docker runs doesn't have
to have a full VM for itself, does it? No, no, it's just the applications that you need.
Well, that's really helpful because with my own little experiment here with the virtualized
PF sense, initially I had to put in an entire VM just to run the web browser to drive the PF
sense interface. I didn't quite get around to getting a control interface to work, but I may
go back to that. Now, isn't PF sense in its own? It's own full distribution. I didn't know you
could install it under another another distro. Well, what I'm saying is that when I was running it
in virtual box in order to talk to the the website of it, I had a separate little Linux via running
like Firefox to give me a control panel. Oh, okay. I sense a found out that you can define a
control interface and limit the control of PF sense just to that port that that interface and
whatever, but that's not the way that they the basic set up. It's a it's sort of bending the rules
a good bit. Okay, one thing I came across, yeah, everybody knows LifeLock, the one where the
the CEO puts his Social Security number on the side of a truck and and there's people to
you know, steal his identity. Well, eventually they did, but there's complaint filed a couple
weeks ago or a week ago now by the FTC saying that LifeLock has failed to adhere to a 2010 court order
that required the company to establish a comprehensive security program to protect user data.
I guess we scrolled down here, but apparently in 2010 they found out,
well, I said the FTC ruled that the company failed to provide reasonable and appropriate
security and essentially, I think they said all their customer data was, you know,
was stored in the clear, you know, not encrypted at all on their server. Let me see, I mean,
before I say that, let me make sure it says actually says that in the article. In 2010, FTC
chairman John Lieberwood said that in truth, the protection they provide, this is quote,
in truth, the protection they provided, less such a large hole that you could drive a truck through
it. Well, that's what you get for hiring former Sony data processing people. Yeah, it says here
in the article, none of the data was encrypted. So that, you know, that's not good for people,
you're trusting to protect your identity and had poor password management practices for
employees and vendors and failed to limit access to that data to only the people who needed access.
They didn't do things like installing antivirus or anti-spire spyware programs on computers used
by employees to remotely access the network. In other words, people working at home could log in,
they didn't do anything to verify the computer had any kind of protection on it.
I guess the price of stock dropped from $16 to $8 with the, with the filing of a new FTC complaint.
Now, I did, I do remember the article said the FTC and this latest complaint had declined to
release exactly what their problems with life locks continuing security. They do
just saying that what they had done since 2010 was not considered sufficient to the FTC.
So I hope nobody has trusted their personal data to life lock just on the basis of their
advertising because it sounds like they don't do a very good job of protecting your data.
It looks like the easiest factor to get a hold of your data would be try to hack life lock.
Yeah, I think a whole bunch of these firms people aren't really looking close.
Also, I would wonder about these open Wi-Fi's. You can't get anywhere without having somebody put up
warnings about crossing the street or whatever. In these open Wi-Fi's, they're very vulnerable,
but they doubt the open Wi-Fi facility, but they also don't mention this is how to use it safely.
Well, anytime you see it open Wi-Fi, you need to question whether
that's some sort of man-to-middle attack or if that's actually legitimate from the facility and
definitely I would never type at least critical passwords on an open Wi-Fi link.
That's one of the reasons why I want to get BFsense up so that I can do my own, so I can do a VPN.
So whatever goes over the Wi-Fi isn't actually any, it's just the outer shell I'm providing my own
armor. Of course, we may end up getting regulations regulating the ability to have private links to your
house. Well, that's what has me worried with the prescription on having open software on your
router or eventually they're going to, somebody's decided, oh, we don't want you to have control
your systems, we're going to ban all that stuff. Actually, if you've read any of the mysteries by
by DJ Rob, they talk about that being a feature that they have a central computer monitoring thing,
which means of course the hackers have to work around it and use unregistered machines.
Another article came up if you using Google Photos on your phone and you have the automatic
Google Photos backup enabled where every photo you take goes into the cloud to be backed up,
but then you uninstall Google Photos from your phone. It still keeps backing up every photograph you
take to Google. So you'd have to reinstall Google Phone, turn off backup, then uninstall it.
This is from an in-gaget article and the author said he uninstalled Google Photos,
Google Drive, and Google Plus, but he found it was still backing up all the pictures. However,
I guess this will probably all work out since Google Photos is shutting down. I do think it's
like somebody's other thing. It's going to rather mean a separate app. It's going to be rolled.
The functionality may be rolled into other Google aspects. I guess you still be able to share
your photos of Google Plus, but all the editing and private album and all the management stuff is
going to be gone. I guess this Google Plus photos is going away, but Google's without the Plus
is still working. I got to tell you, when they took out the grouping feature on YouTube,
they really sort of screwed things up. Well, I guess a lot of this is breaking Google Plus away from
Yahoo and the rest of the Google universe. I don't know if this is the first step towards
getting rid of Google, getting rid of G Plus, or what? People say it's not. I guess you'll
still be able to find your photos over on photos.google.com. I guess Apple and iOS is targeting ads based
on your credit balance, which they learn when you go to the iPhone bar or the genius bar
and the iPhone store and buy your iPhone. As soon as your credit card clears, they know what
your credit score is. If I did it that way, it would just be a series of ads going,
ha ha your poor. You mean it wasn't? No, but it should have been.
Seems like Google is cutting back stuff that uses a lot of server power or storage or stuff.
Well, that's possible. They put a lot of stuff out there for people to use without paying cash
for. I will say it's free. Well, you know, they're thinning the herd over at YouTube trying to
squeeze people. If you're not in our monetized program or the subscription program, we're going to
you're not going to be on the ad based side either. So in other words, if you want to get ad
money from your videos, you've got to pay them a subscription fee. No, what you have to do
is if you want to be on the subscription side, you have to be on the ad based side as well,
allowing them to monetize your videos. Oh, I see what you mean. In other words, if you don't have ads,
people won't be able to subscribe to your videos. No, Google is going, YouTube is going to have
a subscription side that is ad free. They're charging each user, but they will keep going with an ad
based system for those who don't sign up for the subscription. So in other words, I still won't
see any ads. You also may not see any channels because anybody who doesn't sign up for both
is going to be dumped. Well, that's a little bit upsetting. Well, they want to make certain
the subscription service or that the free service doesn't have a better selection than the ad service.
That is to say, the free service is not going to get a lot of content that's purely ad driven.
Everything's going to be based on whether it's on the subscription service.
Yes, and I wonder how that's going to help people that create content, meaning
like a lot of people that, you know, I subscribe to are constantly getting complaints about like
like other networks claiming their videos their own or other people claiming, you know,
their videos their own and putting a strike on their account, which is all done automatically.
So you have to appeal it and then an actual person has to go through it, which can take a very
long time. And during that time, all of your at least that video will become unmonetized.
So someone goes, Oh, that's my video. Like say, you're a popular like YouTube person. And, you
know, I'm me. And I went, Oh, that's my video. Well, suddenly you're not making money anymore
on that video, even if it's like, you know, your most popular one. Well, I think the way it works
is that your shit, the creator's share is shut off and goes to Google.
The more creators they can screw, the more money Google makes.
There is one dude. He had his his video, put a strike against it and everything.
And the network he was with unmonetized it for him. But he wasn't getting any money.
But the person that claimed it was. And so as his network, he just wasn't.
Yeah, there's a lot of stuff like that. Jupiter on another side, Jupiter broadcasting got a
similar clip from Amazon. They had partnerships. But because if you put a broadcasting doing
whatever, Amazon said, sorry, we're not going to do. Let you have your money.
You know, the guy that happened to it was a Ethan Klein of H3 H3. I believe that was the channel.
Yeah. And like he did this whole big breakdown on it. And he goes, you know, honestly,
even as a pretty popular YouTuber, he goes, the amount of money I actually make is less than
what I would make working at Taco Bell. Well, I know that a lot of my people here are putting up
patronage pages that are separate subscriptions. And I believe that's good. That's going to be
more common that you're going to have a separate. The person will have a separate subscription.
If you like my channel, pay me a buck a month. You know, I thought about doing something like
that and I realized I don't do anything worth anyone paying for. So that kind of went out the
window. Yes. And if I'd like to put some videos up, but again, if it's all got to be supported
or stuff that somebody on a subscription side of the service is going to want to watch,
that squeezes out a lot of a lot of the small fry. I mean, I can think of a few certain people
that'll be okay. Like right off the top of my head, such as like one of the more popular gaming
video people seen anters and quite a few others in that crowd. But like the videos I have on
YouTube are just kind of just random things. I never tried to make videos really. Like if I just
had something I had uploaded or like recorded on my phone and went, yeah, I'm going to share this
with other people. Then I would just put it on YouTube and share it that way. Yes, I've seen,
I've been on some of those channels. And a lot of the channels that I had to unsubscribe to
where where stuff like that I had to thin out things. And I still can't get a full channel list
on the basic display. You went into the little little pop-up menu there. Yeah, the pop-up menu.
I used to be able to do that because they allowed you to have channel groups. And I could just go
from one group to another. I have that same problem as well. But that's why I have two Google
accounts. One is, you know, from things like Google Plus and all that. And the other is more just
just like mine. You know what I mean? It's not my public facing persona really. And on the other
account for YouTube, like I'll kind of pick and choose which ones from the other account that I
subscribe to that I really, really just like to watch. And that's helped a lot.
Well, a lot of the stuff that I've done, it's a pain in the ass, but there's something called
Speed Dial for Firefox. And I've just put links to all of the home pages of the channels that I
that I would watch. I mean, so what they've left behind is a pretty much a rump because it's
it's alphabetical, which means somebody who's a zebra channel doesn't get displayed anyway.
What is kind of funny is I've subscribed to so many things that are of just varying interests.
Now, when I do see an ad like say on my phone, it just kind of tries to throw something at me.
It's like, fuck, dude, I don't know. Maybe a like that.
Well, I think it's weird. You look at one video about something on YouTube with all the sudden
you know, suggested stuff. You get a whole bunch of things along that line. It's like, well,
I just looked at that, you know, that topic once and now you think I want to see it all the time.
And that can really actually kind of work against you sometimes because someone will like send you
a video of like, hey, dude, you want to see like this weird video I stumbled across, you know,
just browsing like YouTube late at night and I got into like, you know, the YouTube hole and
it just went further down and then I found that and I thought, wow, that's weird and funny.
I'm going to show that to people like say it's someone, I don't know, like weird and trying to put
together, I don't know like a one of those phone gliders or whatever. And now suddenly you watch
that and you go, wow, that guy is weird. It's kind of funny though. And now all of a sudden you're
getting ads for phone gliders. Yeah, or you follow one of these things. It's gone viral and you
watch it once because somebody did, you know, had his cat dance to a popular tune or something.
And suddenly that's all you get. Or like you you click on one video and it's like someone talking
about someone else's video and suddenly like you're being bombarded with suggestions to watch,
you know, dude, bro's prank the channel. All the cutest image I've seen on YouTube was a
gray squirrel behind the heavy machine gun. It was part of the a month, a slideshow for the
song 1812, you know, the 1812 thing about, you know, battle the new Orleans. A squirrel gun, a gun
in the hands of a squirrel, a large machine gun with a beret on. Funny thing is that that
the British side of that campaign is nearly as screwed up as the song says it is.
You ever go down the YouTube hole and like it just leads from one video to another and then you go,
what if I'm on a list now? Well, I have woken up in the morning and found my browser page open
to YouTube and look at something and say, why was I look, why was I watching that? And then,
you know, hold down the button on back to see the history. Oh yeah, that's how I got there from
watching this other video. Well, with their auto play, you can get bounced all over the universe
even while you're asleep. Yeah, I finally turned that off. Yeah, I had to turn that off real quick.
Um, but the other day I was watching some, I was like, I cannot remember the guy who's part of
the Manhattan project. They moved the movie about him. So I had to Google the now I'm become death
thing. I was like, oh yeah, Oppenheimer. And that just led into like one video after another
about like Uranium and plutonium and then Chernobyl and all these other things. I'm like, yeah,
I'm on a list now. There's no question. Yeah, well, I, I watch a lot of the military stuff,
probably listed somewhere. Well, if they can put it on the list, if they can put you on a list
because you visited Linux journals online site, uh, I mean, and probably if you visit the
New York New York time site because of its left-leaning tendencies, they put you on a list anyway.
Oh, man, I'm on so many lists probably. Why do I have in the background stuck in the 50s tonight?
McCarthy 50s, I mean, because terrorism is the new communism.
And the security service or defending freedom wants you to have everything except freedom.
If I translated that to Russian, wouldn't that sound familiar?
Must have been in the links that I didn't post. I still got them. There was some, I had some
article about deep, uh, you know, deep at the bottom of a mine they found was essentially a
naturally, naturally occurring nuclear reactor. Yeah, the one in Africa that's been going for like
millions of years. Oh, you saw that too, then. Mm-hmm. Well, I'm going to have to chase that down.
One of the strangest things I've come across, so I think on YouTube was about the red-headed giants.
Okay, I guess this isn't even a recent thing, so.
A recent or not though, it's still pretty cool, but since you mentioned the word deep,
it may be think of Google's deep dream. Have you guys played with that at all?
No, tell us more. I don't know how it works, so I'm just going to say magic.
It just takes a picture, runs it through this, and pretty much whatever, you know, the computer
thinks it should be there, I guess, just puts it in an image. So like you could have like just
a picture of your friend in like one shape there, the computer to go, oh, that's obviously a dog's
face and render a dog's face on there. So it just comes out looking all sorts of crazy, and you
can just keep running images through just to see what happens. Yeah, I need to give it pictures of
a no-yum and see if the same faces pop out, pop out to Google that that I see in the no-yum.
Yeah, I'm going to, I may sign up for a turn on September, so I can get away from Google
groups. Yeah, I'm just looking at some of the images created by deep dream on Google, and I think
you want to stay away from that if you're on anything serious. I was thinking that too, I'm like,
man, if you decided to like get high and just try this thing out, it might end up bad for you,
but just quick update on that, not being high, but the deep dream thing. You now have to sign in
with Facebook, which is kind of unfortunate. Do you have to sign in to Google with Facebook?
Through the one website I found, it's deep dreamer, D-R-E-A-M-R, I believe it's .com.
Well, I've stayed off Facebook so far, and I'll have to, I've tried to keep Facebook pure,
but I don't know, so much stuff is pushing you that way.
Well, if they do take away Google Plus, I think we're going to be stuck with it until somebody comes
up with a, well, I wouldn't call, I guess you can't call Google Free, but somebody will come up with
an alternative. Oh, I think Google Plus, they're actually just trying to shrink it down after
trying to grow it and not being able to monetize to match the growth. They may actually start out
with Google listservs and stuff like that, you know, the stuff that we used to have back on the
day before everything was webbed. At least it wouldn't take as much bandwidth. Yeah, I've tried to
put in a private circle, but it's a little weird, and it's because I can't get the statistics of
who's visited it. I don't know if it's working or not. Go ahead. Well, I was just going to thank
Pegwall for introducing me this deep dream. I haven't run any pictures through it, but just looking
at the Google search on photographs, some of these definitely could be some serious nightmare fuel.
I already get enough nightmares. Thank you very much. Also on Google, I've seen one video on five
nights at Freddy's. I used to be a security guard. No, thank you. Thank you.
I've heard a lot of good things about that game, and I kind of want to try it.
Well, the channel that I recommend is Fiara, the tank girl. She has one of them, and I think she
took down the second night that she was putting out. Evidently, her partner convinced her to play it,
and she was going to play out all four or five games, but I haven't seen the second one.
Either way, would show good sense. How do you spell the name there?
The name is F-I-A-U-R-A. Uh-huh. I will give that a watching a bit.
Her tank review videos are worth watching. Anything she's produced is worth watching as far as I know,
although some of the alien stuff is just not to my taste. Wait, alien stuff?
Yeah, I've got the web page up. I'll look at it. Alien Isolation, video game based around the
alien franchise. Okay. I thought you meant like between like gaming video, she post like
weird conspiracy theories or something. Boss, I think she's the most level-headed of all of us.
Yeah, alien isolation is another one of those games that I really want to play, because I don't
really scare easily, so that could be interesting. Well, I think it was one of the alien franchise that
that scared away, uh, Jingles, who's also on there. Uh, he's the next Navy guy.
Scared him away, because it was scary, or it was scary, bad like aliens colonial marine.
I don't know. He just, he just couldn't hack the uh, this wookie.
I'm afraid that my, my push to talk is causing some interference. Uh, I may have to re-log in.
Yeah, I see there's a Android version of Five Nights at Freddy, so I may have to try that.
I think the most exciting, uh, Android game announcement I've seen recently is an Android version
of Fallout Shelter. Is that any relation to the Fallout series? Yes, it is. You are basically the
overseer of a vault, and you run it. And I played it for a little bit on the iPhone, because it was
out on iOS first, you know, it's not like a, uh, it was a time exclusive or nothing, you know, but uh,
yeah, I'm actually looking forward to playing it on, on Android as well.
Yeah, I may have to do a total reboot. Uh, later we're planning on running.
Well, it usually goes so we run out of things to say. If you're getting tired, uh, we can probably,
it's been, uh, three hours. Oh, I may be up. I just take me a few minutes to, to reboot this pig.
Well, that's, that's fine. All right, I think I'm going to have to hit the big switch and clean up my
act. Well, there's an article here looks like, uh, Blender's getting some competition from another
compositor, uh, called, uh, Natron, which at least some people seem to think the, uh, controls
are easier to use as it, as it happens, uh, the article, uh, the author of the article.
Did you just hear an ad TJ or Zekkamp? That's probably coming from a tab that I have open.
Yeah, I heard it. Did you hear it when I wasn't keyed?
No, I heard it. Then I heard nothing after you let off the key.
Oh, okay. Well, it seems to be gone now, at least. Uh, anyway, uh, uh, uh, review on this new
compositor, which is, you know, uh, does things similar to Blender. Uh, and since I don't use any
kind of that software, it's, it's, uh, way beyond me. But, uh, the interesting, uh, part of the
link, if folks want to go back to the show notes, the author is Seth Kinlon.
Hmm. Doesn't sound like a reputable, reputable person.
No, I, I wouldn't trust anything, uh, from there. Just forget I mentioned it.
Well, that's strange, because I've had that tab open before and never gotten ads. I've closed it now.
Uh, or never, never gotten audio at, at, at, when you have audio coming in through the browser,
you have 10,000 tabs open. Um, I do have something. There, there is a, uh, add on and Firefox that I
have that will, I guess, track down the tab that's actually playing sound. Nope, it's back again.
Don't it? Now, Pegwold, do you ever play mech warrior? No, never really got a round of that one.
Oh, okay, for listeners who aren't gamers, this is, well, there's actually several video games
of similar nature, but I think make, um, and they're all actually, I think licensed back to, to an
anime, uh, every one of them, but, um, it's, it's about giant walking robots, uh, you know, with people
inside driving them, uh, in, in warfare. Well, if you've seen, uh, um, on the movie last year,
if the big rope, with the big robots finding monsters from, from the sea, uh, Pacific Rim,
that's kind of what we're talking about. And, uh, so somebody's actually decided to, uh,
they build a couple prototypes of these for, you know, I guess it had to happen when you,
when you had the battle bots and all that, uh, you know, not actually firing weapons or anything,
but simulated scores, you know, in other words, uh, they, they've simulated weapons like laser tag.
And if you get so many hits, then the arm on the other robot won't work anymore, or so
when he hits on the legs, it won't be able to walk. So, and I think maybe even parts that will
fall off or something. So they've got a couple of these built, uh, it's based in the US, but I think
they're, uh, marketing it to Japan TV. Uh, no, it's, it's megabots and they challenged
studio bashy heavy industry, uh, to fight. And so I guess they, they've each come up with a robot,
and sometime next year, they'll get into an arena and fight.
Oh, not laser tag there. It's, uh, paintball.
I'd play it. I don't know for like how long, but, you know, I'd give it a shot.
Oh, yeah, that'd be fun. Uh, I guess they are designed so like, arms will fall off and stuff.
And, and smoke will roll out and sparks and all that stuff until there's only one left.
So there can be only one. Yeah, I, I close the tab. I'd open for that, uh, uh, fallout wars wherever
you mentioned pegwall. So it's, it's your fault. That must have been the one with the ads.
I mean, I will say this about fallout shelter. It's not, you know, the most ground breaking
mobile game you're going to find, but it is a good way to kill, you know, a few minutes out of
boredom. That's these little app I found. I'm installed it by found, uh, link piece sensor and it's,
is a graphical temperature monitor like, you know, commonly gamers had in, uh, windows to, to show
the temperature of the GPU, the CPU, the hard drives, the CPU fan speed. So now we're getting more
gaming on Linux. That might be something, uh, that people would be interested in. Speaking of
fans, I just had to turn on a couple more to help cool off the house overnight.
Oh, in case you guys didn't hear, I'm in the new house. So really enjoying it, sleeping a lot
better than I did. And why don't you tell us about the new house? Well, as you guys probably,
probably no, we, it's, it's above a lake. I mean, it's in, it's in our pasture or my pasture,
just above our lake. It's, uh, you know, bet we build as a berm house into the hillside. So, uh,
two sides are right up against the hill. And, you know, and it's, I was amazed all summer coming in
out of here. Of course, we didn't have the air conditioner on and it was a little warmer than I
like it, but it was not certainly not uncomfortable with no air conditioning at all. And it doesn't,
you know, it doesn't run much now that I've got it on. So, you know, it's sort of linear, you know,
you've got, I've got a two car garage on the one end and you go in and there's, uh, you,
you come in from there and there's, uh, you know, washer dryer room and a half bath and
some storage area. And then I've got the kitchen and the living room and I got, I don't really
specifically have a dining room to expect. I'll set up a table of some sort in the living room,
you know, just eating by myself. I just sit down the easy chair and eat. So, uh, sitting
front of the TV. So that, that whole area is open. Uh, the, uh, the stove isn't, isn't an island.
It would, you know, which is sort of the break point between the kitchen and the, and the,
and the living room. And that way, you know, I can, I can make meals and still see the TV, watch
TV while I'm in the kitchen. Uh, then the rest of the house, there's a hallway with rooms on either
side and on the north side, I have a, and an all concrete safe room. In case I have a tornado,
I can just lock myself up in there and, uh, you know, and then a, then a bathroom next to it and
on the other side, technically two bedrooms. Of course, I'm using the, the one, the one is an
office and the other is, uh, other is a bedroom. And then then the hallway, there's the mechanical
room, which, you know, just test by water heater and AC cooling system or AC heating system.
And, uh, and all that stuff in there, plus that's, of course, where the phone lines and the,
and the TV and the termination of all the network connections. And that's one of the things that I
made sure, you know, building a house from scratch, I said, I, you know, I never, I never want to be
born about four feet from Ethernet and power. And, uh, so, you know, I've, I've got, you know,
about 10 wall plugs here and then a four, four port ethernet connection next to each of them.
You know, I, I told the wirehouse said, no, I'm not going to ever have a computer plugged into
every wall outlet, but why are the houses, if, is if I, if I were going to? So I've got a big,
big, uh, uh, breaker panel in the utility room. So, and I said, it's just, it's just been great
this past week. How are you getting for data rates or, or you won't really know until you go,
what, all wired? No, I've already got the Ethernet in. I don't, I don't have a poll up for my TV
antenna over there TV, because I wanted to build myself one of those, uh, swing down antennas.
You know, it's that you don't have to go climb up the pole or whatever to adjust the TV antenna.
And so that's going to be, um, sort of technically complicated to, because I want to have it so I can
rotate the antenna from the ground and all that stuff too. So, but I, I mean, start on building that.
So that's, that's probably the next project, but at least until the fall TV season starts, I've got
more stuff on Hulu and, and Amazon Prime, uh, than I could ever watch much less the, uh, DVDs that
I've bought and haven't watched, you know, for that reason is, you know, I, why I had the cable,
all that, I wouldn't avail myself of the cable as much as I could. Uh, but, uh, now I've got the
internet in, the internet costs like $60 a month. It's on Y max, just like it was before the old house.
And it's, uh, six gigabit down and 1.2 up.
And it's unlimited data. It's unlimited data. I don't have a data cap at all.
Well, I think I got one up and, uh, you know, they say 10 down, but it's less than that.
Yeah, there's always a difference between the theoretical bandwidth and what you actually wind up with.
Well, I also wonder what would happen if I put some real hardware right up to the, to the, uh,
to the modem. I mean, running a PF sense, I might be able to get a little squeeze a little more
out of it than, than this little toy router. Yeah, I think you might, you might be able to.
There's certainly things that you can add on to make it more efficient caching systems and
stuff like that. Well, I, I'm gonna look into something like squid.
I'm even running here locally. I do a lot of portable software here.
And the way I back things up is have redundant, you know, flash drives.
And the updating is always downloading, you know, seven copies of office or whatever.
My portable apps menu will, uh, we'll go through a proxy. So I might try to squid it.
So it's downloaded once and then loaded locally.
Yeah, just, you know, I always have a different distro on every machine's if I can.
So I don't know how well that would, would, uh, work for me.
Because I think it's going to be, you know, what you're, the file is going to be slightly different
for, for one distro to the next.
Well, I'm running, uh, windows as, as the outer operating system. So, uh, anything I can get up,
upstream that would help is probably going to be a good deal.
Put a modern seller on on that link. And it's going to, uh, get the most out of the 100,
make a bit of connection to the motive.
And this price shouldn't be any surprise. Last month, Sousa announced it was releasing
uh, less, uh, Susa Linux enterprise server, uh, for 60 foot, four bit arm server processors.
So I guess we won't be able to install it on our pies, but, uh, yeah, we'll
start to see how, how the arm servers compete, uh, with, with the Intel-based servers.
Well, for some stuff, I wouldn't mind having arm at the front. If the pie was fatter,
it would make a perfect firewall thingy.
Yeah, the carry-over firmware discussion on, uh, Linux floodcast. I posted a forum a couple
days ago, asked if they'd fix the, uh, supposed bug that the, uh, archive red mentioned. And if you
turn on IDS on IP fire, and IP fire being the only, uh, one of the router distros that I found
that has an ARM version, I asked if Wells, that's been, uh, somebody had put it on, on a,
on a regular banana pie. It said, yes, as I turned on IDS, it, uh, broke the system. I mean,
you could just, he could re-image the SD card and start over again. It's not like get, uh,
get brick the banana pie, but it did put it into a, uh, you know, with IDS on it, he said it put
it in the repeating kernel panic where he couldn't boot the system. So, and, uh, you know, force
been money on a banana pie router that I, uh, I'd like to know if that problem has been fixed yet.
I'm surprised on, I'm sorry, as you say, I was surprised on pricing. I found the banana pie router
model for as low as 60 bucks on all Ibaba and the cheapest I found it on, uh, Amazon is like 175.
Well, off the top of my head, the things that I'm probably going to build on is, uh, is probably going
to be based on a Celeron Mini ATX system. Why a Celeron and not an atom? Because these days, uh,
Celerons are as efficient as atoms. Oh, I hadn't heard that. And this, is this multi-core system?
Yeah, let me get my new egg up. I've been drilling over this for a couple of years.
Well, like I said last night, you know, I, uh, I think I was already at a point I wanted to step
beyond stock, uh, consumer routers and definitely with this FCC ruling that you can't install
open-source software on your, on your router. I think definitely, you know, I'm not,
not going to be buying any more, uh, consumer routers for my systems.
The ones I'm looking at is 60 bucks for a Celeron, uh, J19 quad-core. Order as an ass rock for about
70 bucks. Wow, that's not bad. Uh, now these are many ITX, I mean, ATX systems because with a
few extra slots, you can throw in extra network cards without having to pay a dummy tax for multiple
ports. So that, that's the pressure quoting that, that CPU and the board then and the motherboard.
That minor, if you don't mind, why don't you post that link into the, uh, in the all-cast planet.
I'd like to take a look at those. Give me a minute, uh, there you go, guys.
Bio-star, best recommended. They have a nasus if you like that, too. Yeah, I'll have to check that out.
Two gigahertz quad-core, 16-meg, uh, low power RAM capable.
If I put a hard drive buffer on it, it's probably going to cause more power than the CPU.
Well, I Tony Beemis, I think in that email he sent us that the, uh, you know, he's running
PF-sense on like a Pentium 4, but he's just using an 8GB USB drive as the hard drive, so
if you eliminate the spinning drive, you could probably, uh, save a lot of your power requirements.
Well, if you get something more efficient than the P4, the old P4 that I've got, that's,
that's about all I'm going to look for. And, uh, I'm not really worried too much about power,
uh, just that I'm planning on squidding a lot of stuff, and that's why I want a spinning drive
that I can write to. Okay, I see that. Yeah, if you're going to squid, you're going to need more,
uh, a lot more storage. I would strongly recommend that you, uh, consider some kind of spinning drive,
even if a laptop unit for, uh, logs and such, um, or maybe it's a second flash drive,
so that, uh, you can log this stuff for the kind of analysis you were planning on doing or,
or the data munging you were planning on doing. Well, for that matter, I bought a, uh,
a, a, uh, solid state drive for the laptop I bought a couple of months ago, so I haven't put in,
so that was that I could use the, the, the spinning drive out of that, out of that laptop,
for my router project. Yeah, pretty good. I'd build it up even fatter if, if they had done,
if they'd packaged it yet, eventually P.O. Sense is going to be a package you can put on 3BSD
or PCBSD. I'm going to have to seriously look at this because I think I'd rather have P.O. Sense
than IP fire. So this, this wouldn't be much more expensive by the time you buy everything,
than that, uh, uh, uh, banana pie router because you buy that, you still have to, to, uh, buy a,
uh, power supply and you probably ought to buy a case, uh, you know, with this and have to buy
a case, which would be more expensive than that, than, than a single board case and I'd have to be,
you know, everything else, like I said, power supply and, and RAM and all that, but still,
I bet you could come in under 100 on this easy. Well, I don't know, uh, I would probably budget
two, but then again, I'm building up higher than you are and, um, also, I haven't decided whether
I'm going to use an old P1, uh, box that I've got here. If I just put this in as the motherboard
in the P1 box, I have a 350 watt power supply. It may not be super efficient, but it will probably
drive this fine. Well, that's true. I hadn't thought about that. I do, I do have some old case,
old cases around this because they're full size cases. Doesn't mean I couldn't, uh, bolt in, uh,
a micro ATX. It should fit in there. My, uh, local suppliers of, it's actually hard to get a low power,
high efficiency power supply and I don't think I want to go peak up. Actually, I may try to get one
there's a, uh, uh, uh, case that's designed to be tacked on top of a full, full size.
Oh, okay. Well, it comes in a couple of forms and, uh, the, the idea is it also can be used for hard
drive expansion on this full size case or you can have a router type thing on top or whatever
a lightweight server on top and then your big machine below or vice versa.
Now, are you going to just plug this into the switch because I only see two, uh, two expansion slots
and they're both PCI express? Well, I'd probably use the on board. I know it's not efficient. The
on board, uh, Nick took up to my router and then get some Intel PCI. I'd want to put, uh,
something that can run real gigabit on the, uh, on the in-house side and, and I don't really
care about throughput because, uh, 10, 10 megabit that I've got coming off the, the, uh,
coming off the modem is could be handled by almost any chip. All right, you could probably even
use, uh, USB, uh, and, uh, Ethernet not lose anything. Well, it's got an Ethernet port on,
on the motherboard. Let's face it for you, even the usd3 port could run a gigabit, uh,
uh, dongle, probably at line speed. Yeah, expect so. So this, yeah, this is,
this is definitely a way to go. I mean, 60 bucks, you know,
what could you get for a crappy machine for 60 bucks? Yeah, you can't get much anything.
Even, even people for, uh, old P4 try to sell it to you. They think it's worth 60 bucks.
Well, I have a junk P4 here that's a little faster than the one that I'm using for Linux,
but the Linux machine has a tower case and the, uh, P4 is a slim line and I gotta,
got a few old, uh, hard drives in the, in the P4 and it's plenty for Linux.
Well, I think I wish it was a way to, to run it off an old AT, uh, uh, PSU because, uh,
I've got plenty of those. Some, some of them are even, uh, uh, all I'm blanking on
them, but it's, it's, it's one of the good, you know, a good brand, but I bet I'd have to use it
ATX power supply. Yeah, you might, you might, well, uh, besides, you know, you're going so low,
getting, uh, any efficiency out of the system by putting an old AT power supply on,
give me a break. Oh, I hadn't thought about that. I bet, I bet you're right. I'd probably eat more
juiced than, uh, than you'd save by not buying a power supply. I mean, I'm not saying
golden for gold. I'm saying that, uh, if you go with, with a bronze power supply,
you're going to be running something you know the quality of, you know, it's got
overvoltage and other safety features. You don't know what your old AT's got.
Yeah, that's a real good point there. I mean, I got this, uh, this P, what, P, well,
it's actually a P4 power supply upstairs. It's got the four pin connector,
but I don't know whether I'd use it on this.
Well, I mean, uh, oh, I have to friend order power supply the other day for his old,
he built sort of a gaming P4 and it quit. And, uh, you know, we tested it turned out,
what turned out was the power supply. And so I got him, uh, you know, picked out a decent power
supply, but I wasn't thinking, uh, and last time I got a power supply, they had enough
converters and stuff to, to, to make it work. But, uh, you know, he got, he got it and he didn't
have enough Molex connectors to hook up all his drives. So I said, well, I've got, you know,
I had a new one in the box, you know, I kept for, uh, you know, customers I've had for a couple
years and it had both stated Molex, but it was heavier on, on the Molex. So I brought it out,
we put it in and, uh, you know, it ran the system. It wasn't quite as high of, uh, capacities,
the one he had originally had in there. So I told him maybe not, not hook up all the, uh,
case lights and stuff like he had before. But, you know, I tried to get him not to do it, but he,
you know, he gave me the brand new one that, you know, the, the better power supply that I'd
had, that I ordered is, you know, is a straight exchange. So I owe him something on that
next time he has a problem. But, uh, well, um, I guess, uh, TJ is not coming back, uh,
in that minor. So, and I think we've exhausted, exhausted most of the important stories I had for
tonight. So I don't know, what do you think about tying it up? Fine with me, uh,
fine with me, whatever you want to do. And, uh, I'm just glad to get a chance to talk to somebody here.
I got a few things to chase down around here. So, uh, I'll see you in a couple of weeks or,
we're on, um, on the luck. All right. Uh, this has been, uh, I'm trying to find out what the next
episode of Tit Radio would be. Just give me a second. I've been going to do that all night and
haven't done it. Oh, good night, folks. Nightnet minor and I've been 5150 and this has been, uh,
Tit Radio Episode 20 broadcasted on hacker public radio, which you can come to us at hackerpublicradio.org.
And, uh, hopefully by the time you're hearing this, the queue will be full of new shows. But if
you're hearing this and we, looks like we're heading into the emergency shows, please consider
uh, as a list of recording, uh, show of your own and sending it in. We could really use them right now.
You've been listening to hackerpublicradio at hackerpublicradio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hackerpublicradio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself,
unless otherwise status. Today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLite, free.or license.
