Episode: 1534
Title: HPR1534: My Introduction to HPR
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1534/hpr1534.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 04:45:25

---

Thank You!
Greetings hacker public radio. This is semiotic robotic. I'm a long time listener and devoted
fan of the network, but this is the first time that I've contributed a show. Submitting
a podcast to HPR is something I've wanted to do for quite some time. So when I heard
the public call for more content, I began to think about ways that I could contribute
to this community that I love and admire so much. And I think I've found a way I can
do that. I write regularly for a website called opensource.com, which is an online publication
that features stories about the ways that open source tools and open source values
are changing the world. More specifically, opensource.com is a platform that people can
use to discuss the ways that various open source projects and open source initiatives
are impacting the world in places beyond technology. So how open source is changing
government or education or business, for example. And we publish several stories about
these topics every week. Red Hat supports opensource.com and I've actually worked as the
site summer intern for the past four years. And in that time, I've written about many
topics. I think would be of interest to HPR listeners, open source hardware, open source
video gaming, intellectual property issues, open access publishing, for example, even
a tutorial on how to create ebooks using nothing but open source tools. And I'll put a link
to my site profile in the show notes so you can get a better sense of how I write about
open source culture. To me, what makes the site so interesting and so much fun is its vibrant
community of contributors from all over the world who write on so many different topics.
Open source advocates really get involved with the site. They write stories, they comment
on other stories, they even converse about the stories on social media. Some folks even
syndicate our content because we default to open. We publish all our original content
under creative commons licenses. So when I was thinking about ways I could contribute
to Hacker Public Radio, I thought I might like to pop in every week or so and provide
a brief overview of some of the stories we've published at OpenSource.com. A little
open source news roundup, so to speak. I'll post one or two of these segments soon so
you can see what I'm talking about. And in the meantime, you can visit my website,
which I'll link in the show notes. And you can contact me with comments or suggestions.
So thanks everyone for listening to my first submission to Hacker Public Radio. I hope
to contribute many, many more. But for now, anyway, I will sign off. Until next time,
this is semiotic robotic wishing you peace, love, and open source.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio or Hacker Public Radio. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show,
like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself. If you ever consider
recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public
Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the economical and computer cloud. HPR
is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are crowd-sponsored
by lunar pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for
all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative
commons, a tribute show, share a line, free those own license.
