Episode: 1131
Title: HPR1131: HPR Community News November 2012
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1131/hpr1131.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 19:36:28

---

.
Hello ladies and gentlemen my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to today's
episode of Hacker Public Radio which is a community news episode and for those of you who are tuning in for the first time
we like to do a quick round table on what's been going on in the HPR community for the last month
and this month we're joined by Bobo Vex how you doing? I'm fine thank you tell
everyone we'll skip over Carnomimo and how are you 5150 or you around? Yeah I'm right here Ken I can't
complain. Oh I'm sure you could if you put your mind to it. Then we have is it K-wisher or
Nightwisher or what's your handle? K-wisher. He's muted. He's just listening in. We got Nido how you doing Nido?
Good evening nice to meet you all. And we've got Poki to one and only. Hello no I'm not the one
and only Nido's got another pounding Poki and a whole other IRC and a whole other language even.
So unfortunately we have no new hosts to introduce this month so if we all just
think about what that means that every single person who listens to the show has done a
episode which of course is not true because there's about five thousand five hundred
people out there who listen and haven't contributed to the show so please get off your
proverbial and send us in a show. Yes I agree please send us a show we need them and
we like you. Cool so first of all I want to start off by apologizing to CT for
putting issues in the Thursday cube which was a bit odd and strange and as such they
didn't get scheduled very fast at all but he was very understanding about that and
asked me not to apologize to him so I think we should all now send the heartfelt apology
individually to CT for missing up his episode. I want Poki to sing the apology.
I'm so sorry that you were Thursday the end.
Yeah this month a lot of people probably not a lot of stuff going on in the main
mailing list but there was definitely a lot going on in the development mailing list
this month so I want to thank everybody who's been contributing over there and
has definitely made my life a lot easier and also made me think a little bit about
the way things are going to go and stuff. Alrighty so let's as we do go through the
shows and review and before we start I just want to say to the listener there that
is the kind of person who skips the rest of the show once we start the review
don't skip the rest of this one please if you want to fast forward through the show
reviews if that's you that's understandable but we need to talk about the New Year's
Eve show coming up right after that so please listen in for that.
Do you want to do that first or not? No I think it's probably better if we thank the
hosts personally I mean they've already done their part. Yeah super we had on 11 12 we
had Linux in the shell done split episode and yeah I personally enjoy this
episode I've used this command quite a lot and there were a few options in there
that I just had to rewind three or four times don't why would anyone ever
want to do that split them put them randomly into three different yeah I just
didn't make any sense to me but I'm sure somebody is a use case for. I like that
Dan gave a lot of examples of why you might want to do some of the the
more obscure stuff and I don't know if you noticed Ken but Clat 2 just hopped
in the room so Clat 2. Hello how's it going? It's going grand we just started
we're talking about dance I was gonna say yeah I've used split in the past in real
life as well although not to randomize the split team that I've done but I have
definitely chopped up things with split it's a great command great episode. Yeah it's
a I've used it quite a bit as well for it's a little more useful than you would
think it would be you can use it for network packages as well send them stuff out if
you want exactly that number of bytes going out take a big file and just dump it
across and that in that amount of bytes. And why would you? Pardon me? I said
I didn't mean to walk on Clat 2 there I asked why would you want that why would
you want to specify the number of or the size of the packets going out over
the network. You want to unbarred some web service with a lot of a lot of bytes.
Oh right on. So then we had 51's 50 term duck and shell screen and
quake and I have to thank you first of all thanks 50 and 50 but I want to thank
you Poki for your comment which which explain what that term duck and was all
about. I was glad I got the joke I thought it was hilarious I was like what is
what in the world is he talking about and then when I listened to the show that
afterwards I got the joke I didn't get it at first but yeah that's great.
Yeah sometimes my humor can be obvious. Yeah but you just come across this
straight edge sort of guy that said and then all of a sudden I was going duh of
course that's what it was. I still use it like that every day on the other
system. Seriously? Yeah well not so much the app shell that hit for some
reason that has not earned out to be as useful as I'd hoped a lot of times
you because you just fired up and and and type in install package name and
too much time comes back to me so what I don't understand I don't know that
package name and I go I go into regular terminal and type in
due to aptitude update you know bring everything up to date pseudo aptitude
safe raid and and and then pseudo aptitude install whatever and it and
install but aptitude install finds the package name just as I typed it so I
don't know I think I think maybe and the search function hasn't worked as
well as I would like either so that part I don't use that much but definitely
I use the screen I use screen inside a gwake so I just have a
hit hit fn I move mind f10 to get a terminal and then one of those
terminals is always open into my server and of course I'm running screen on the
server as well just as I decide so you know I gotta be I gotta be careful how
how deep when I'm when I'm screens how deep I go with the command so I get the
right thing changed to shame you couldn't use something like sport you should try
slackware well nice okay then we had to do money enough podcast episode seven
a geek's journey to nature and he's over in the lounge I wonder if someone could
go out and get him and bring him in here I'll do it no I want to say for
do that with that one oh I guess he's here good job did you want 50 that was
prompt back and now as we did that folks as we were saying to 5150
go out and get dude man he appeared in the channel instantaneously and here
was dude here was fish you on 50 complaining about this crappy internet
connection hey dude man are you around can you tell us more about your cat your
cows you was going to put some calls on the fire earlier so it's probably going
to back soon cool cool okay well we'll move on anyway but I love this episode
though oh I did too yeah it was really good at first I thought we'll get in the
after farming weekly wondering where on earth it was going but it was
absolutely fascinating to listen to what he had had in his life and though
the changes that he had made and you know to get to where he was now it was
really good I feel like a bit of a voyeur though he tricked us all though yeah
with that was sneaky wasn't it yeah we've got a true need to find out how
ends it started so slow and I was like oh boy what is this but I always give a
show you know a fair shake and before it got to the point where I would you
know fast forward or whatever it really got interesting real quick I did I
did he lost it at the tracing the chickens and the pigs down the lane for
the next door neighbor but when he says that I've done I've done that you
know where you go can you find animals running around and you go oh thank
God then that hour is okay now we can put them in with that attitude of
smugness back into the they're not our animals yeah walk into my life yeah
yeah but they're always yours now but if they yours that's the problem I've
actually been on to YouTube and watch some of the videos of him using the size
and man I mean he's got a very really good technique I I've used a side as well
I bet you don't do this quickly does yeah but unlike him I came from this
entire thing from the other side I was born and raised in a farm and my
entire goal in life is to get all farm as quickly as possible and it's just
funny to see a guy you know from this city guy going back to the farm it's
funny to see it the other way yeah I have to say this this is one of those
shows makes you really want to go out and get the rest of the episodes yeah I
did that all right I've subscribed to his to a show obviously yeah I agree I
definitely wanted to sort them find out more about you know what else had
happened okay let's let's move on and hopefully we'll have dude man back on
shortly we had a episode 1115 talk to you can be news deep geek and
deep geek is poking can you can you give us an update on what's going on with
you keep there not really I he asked for some volunteers he asked if anybody
wanted to help read some stories and help out with the show a bit and I
really like talking to me news and I didn't want to see it go away so I've
volunteered to read some stories for him and that's really that's all that's
really happened I just I've read a few stories and I send him off to him he's
still he's still in charge of it and doing all the editing and picking the
stories and such I just asked him for a you know a script basically so I'm
I'm frankly I'm not doing any of the work just reading a script so it's not you
know I I don't know okay yeah it's it's good that you've taken over that it was
nice to hear another voice on this is on 11 30 wait so as you listen to this it
was yesterday's episode so probably quite a lot of people even here on this
this call here haven't heard her the episode and by the way if you're if you want to
join into the community news you don't have to have listened to all the shows you
just come along and you don't want to talk about a show just you know mute yourself
for that so then we had a nor the boring episode 11 16 skip this one yeah let's
skip that one nobody wants to hear about this did that one just go on and on
forever the guy would not shut up who you know which one was this this is not
the bad deal with Richard star no there my RMS wasn't problem no he wasn't
was Poke hasn't prepared himself at all I have to say I mean that's a joke
obviously but I have to say that what Poke did and I don't know how many people
in here saw but on the mailing list I think it was in the mailing list or the
IRC she was manless he emailed everyone said hey I'm gonna go okay I'm gonna
interview RMS pitch me some questions and I mean I think that turned out really
well he's from the listener standpoint did you think that was a good idea Poke did
that work for you seemed like it did I yeah actually it really worked great my
only regret was that I didn't even think of it at the time I should have written
down whose questions they were so I could have given credit at the time because
it seems like I you know they came up with these great questions and I didn't
yeah I don't think it matters does matter though one thing that I did like about
the show was that there was there was plenty of time for him to go on about
everything and I know door to door geek actually commented on this initial but
and I know it was by accident on your side but it was really nice to hear him
having the time not being badgered or not being hit with a stick but being also
hit with you know nice good hard questions that he could give a good answer to
I will say that I did not expect I mean I I know Poke I love Poke I didn't
expect this episode to be as good as it was because I mean I just felt up
until this interview I felt that RMS had been interviewed you know like I'd
heard everything RMS possibly could say I've been to his talk two talks of his
in real life I've heard a dozen talks online I just figured it had all been
talked about already but that was not the case I found this to be a very good
very good interview with someone who really we've all heard before and thought
we knew everything about already I agree when I was listening to this episode
having listened and seen to some of Richard Storm was online he can be very
domineering and there was almost a danger that actually you know he could have
completely made the interview a Poke sort of feel he wasn't up to the job he
didn't do that at all so Poke you you know really did well as the interview
were on this as well well thank you I went into it with the mindset I wasn't
going to make it a adversarial interview I wanted I really wanted to hear
what he had to say and I planned on giving him plenty of time to say
everything that he had to say but there was a technical glitch on his end
where if we both keyed up at the same time his speakers fed directly back into
his microphone and it seemed like it was even you know electrically before it got
to the speakers it came right back at me and it was unbearable to listen to
and he was using like it not you know like the push to talk when you hit it and
it stays in the mic stays open he was using that so I literally had to wait for
him to turn his mic back off so a couple of times there was a little bit of a
pause a little bit of silence that you wouldn't have noticed because I added it
out where he would start talking again where normally I would have come in with
another question or something and that was that was the accident that Ken had
referred to but it really worked in you know in our favor this time
I think that generally sorry go ahead and hit the one you realize Poke we're
expected an interview like this at least three four top year from now on
yeah I I tried to well what was classy what were you going to say oh I was
just going to come usually or I think it's my belief that a good interview is
one where the interviewer doesn't really talk that much yeah I agree no I
had planned on doing a couple more and I was trying to get with with one guy to
do one who was completely off the radar that that picks up Richard Stolman but
I thought it would have been fun but we're just having a hard time getting
together okay well well done Poke curiosity
it's you know what I as much as I want to do a good job in any show that I
put out the what really makes me feel good is if if I and it happened
to this time it seemed to anyway as if I put out a show and you know a
week or so later you know a bunch more shows come in that is really
fantastic and there are certain hosts when they post shows that that seems to
happen and you know it's happened to me like twice now and it's really a good
feeling when that happens fantastic okay so the following day we had the
way back machine the sdf.org and this is and my bill and the guys
did you do any of you have an sdf account yeah I do I've been a member
since well for years it was I think that might have been my first
experience on a real live pure Unix box if I'm not mistaken.
I do now I didn't before yeah I set one up a few weeks ago but it was
it was after pod yeah it was hot brewers and we're kind of
kind of state of inebriation so I'm hoping like back into it once I had
side go play with it I was through Navigum and in my bill and we already
had a JPW on about the sdf would have been say five
hundred shows ago so so yeah we have covered this before but it's always
good to be reminded of it I did sign up for this and I paid the
subscription but I still haven't gotten through the acknowledgement
process or whatever that needs to happen.
Yeah I'm in trade that you can use it or port town link so I've got
such a slow connection at home it does it do me no good to run
anything through my home network might give me something I could
think I could use in an insecure location away from home.
That's exactly what I used to use it for 51 for me.
I was really intrigued by you can host photos on there and like
link to them you know I was really intrigued by that and a couple
other things but that's a good one.
Oh I can use that I'm out of space on my free server.
I'm more interested in using it get to websites that
would be well it doesn't really is really appropriate but as a
bastion host for getting into my own network I give IP address
restrictions to certain IP addresses and then from there connect
from their back home so that you block you know you're able to access
home via ssa but you must you can only come from a certain range
of IP addresses so that you don't get all these people trying to
crack your network all the time.
That's a good idea never thought of that.
That is really awesome.
You don't do that?
No.
Never thought of it.
Never thought of it myself.
No.
I do restrict access to some people to other people to my
servers when they need to upload stuff there but for myself I
restrict myself to using ssh certificate rather than a
password and that's usually sufficient security.
Yeah but if you check your logs I still see
if I put anything up on 22 port 22 I see loads of people
trying to connect in.
That's the best I do is just change the external port.
Change the external port but also like just completely block ssh
from accepting anything from any connection other than my
local network and a few three or four different holes that are
around the internet.
Yes see I do something that's completely different and I could
probably come into conflict with it.
I use fail to ban which if there's three failed log in attempts
it blocks that address and maybe block the whole domain I'm
sure.
No you could still use that because I mean you're still going to
do that and then you get in if you don't get in on that machine
you can switch to your other other machine or wherever and try
from there.
But that would limit quite the would limit the ability to log
into your whole network.
Yeah exactly if there were three if someone tried to get into
it and they were using sdf and that were my only external gateway
you know in then they could you know that would in effect restrict
me from getting in remotely.
Yeah but if you're doing this blocking you need to make
her to have three or so.
Okay yeah it's good thinking.
Okay so other people can connect from the same IP address as
the sdf host.
Am I not correct?
Well you block say if you don't have anybody who has access
has an sdf account could get in obviously but if it's your
vps machine out on the internet and you're the only person who has
access to that machine then yes that IP address range can
can access in but you've gone from millions of IP addresses
down to a few hundred of possible people.
They're true but if you combine that with fill to ban then you
run the ability of getting a denial of service attack and
people trying to get access to those IP addresses and
try to run false passwords so you cannot block in
yourself anymore.
Yeah but that's fair enough but only one of the machines will be
this machine and the other one will be my vps how would somebody
get onto my vps on the first place.
Well they could pretty much legitimately look like traffic
from your vps from a note within that same network.
Yeah but need a they would need to know.
I agree.
Yeah and if they're doing that they can just attack.
If they do now something you need to worry about unless you
have somebody who really really hates you.
Yeah if it's that targeted and they know that much about you
and about networking and they're getting it anyway.
All they have to do is self target kin felon.
All they have to do is look at kin felon that are you've got
my full home in the postal address they're just slapping
Google earth come up to the door sometimes you know I work
and walk on it.
Glad to remember that sometime when you're not at work.
Yeah and if I get robbed you know where I'm going to be sending
the police.
Glad to when you're not at work when you are at home.
Okay.
If you come to my house when I'm home I'm open in a beer for you.
Is there anywhere in Europe?
No.
That's a long way to make it difficult.
Pretty far.
But you're welcome to come here.
Hello thank you very much.
I've just got back so if I missed the beginning.
No we're just rumbling on about how good your episode was on
on episode 1114.
I'm immediately friends with people when they say so nice.
Thanks.
Well I liked it too then.
Yeah well I've got an everyone plan for tomorrow which is on
programming and I did one a few weeks ago on hacking as well
with an interest in twist to it.
Very very cool.
How many episodes are you up to?
I'm unlucky 13 but I'm going to remedy that tomorrow.
Nice.
And we're also joined by Hart V61 if you want to say hello again.
Just don't.
He wanted to and couldn't.
Yeah the joy is a push to talk.
Okay where are we?
Spread the...
Oh yeah my first brush...
My first brush with loss.
Doom which I think a lot of people.
This was one of the how I got into Linuxy type of things and
this was a new vector that I hadn't come across before actually.
It's an interesting way to see how people get to the philosophy
through different means other than just trying to hack the
computer they have together and whatever the default way is to
get to this point.
Yeah and I guess it's a perfectly legitimate way when I was
into today.
Doom obviously was an open source game so of course people would
use that that would introduce people to Linux.
I know we used last year we had quite a lot of the how I got into Linux
stories and yeah I'd love to hear some more stories from other people so
please if you're teaching on the edge think about some of the same
one of those shows I always find them interesting.
Don't know about the resty.
Hey if you want more Ken one fellow has got an interesting
approach to that he he listens in to other shows on mumble and
then Anne which is people when they're done and gets them to
tell them to tell us how they found Linux.
Obviously a genius.
Yeah it's brilliant.
Anne Bush is the right word as well.
Yes yes no pressure obviously no pressure on anyone to do that.
No pressure talk now.
Then the interview the pain is over you've done your first
episode and it's everything's just better from then on it.
Anyways 1119 was spreading the word was CT and
inspirational stories from on the road and this one actually was by
just so annoying that I had left this in the queue for ages and
you have to remember people when you send them the shows I have a
policy of not listening to them so I don't know.
I don't I won't know unless you tell me in the show notes about
whether it's syndicated Thursday or main queue or whatever so
feel free to actually edit and put some notes for me in the in
the show notes please.
So again apology CT for that.
Was this the guy that did it whilst he was driving?
The episode whilst he was driving?
Yes.
It always amazes me how he can like talk constantly and concentrate
on what he's doing.
He's from Sweden so they have long roads up there.
What with no other traffic?
I'll be effort in the effort and all the other users.
Very important if anyone's going to Sweden and they tell you it's
only five kilometres up the road.
Kilometer their kilometer is a hundred kilometres yes.
So just so you know that.
I've seen this has happened a couple times where a show got into the
wrong queue.
So if you if people are going to send in shows you know don't be afraid
to write one complete sentence just specifically stating this is
for the normal queue or you know this is for the the syndicated
Thursday queue because sometimes there seems to there seems to be
you know a little bit of confusion if if somebody interprets an email
wrong so if you could put something in there that's very clear
like that that could help you know not have this happened to your show.
And also don't be afraid to send in where is my show especially
given a week normally after you uploaded especially if there's
enough shows in the queue and you not a new host give it a week
because I have life as well and I usually process the shows on
an evening when my wife is working so so if it hasn't sort of gone
into the queue by the by the Saturday feel free to give me a
ping and if you haven't heard your if your show has suddenly
disappeared after two weeks or so definitely give send us an
email. Yeah I think that two times that I've seen it happen
that I remember it happening were people who would send in a show
and they would say something like I do a media project over
here and I decided to put this together for HPR and it kind of
sounded like it was meant to be a syndicated show but you know
it a sentence saying this is not something that we've even
just say this is not a syndicated show it hasn't aired yet you
know and I will know for sure. Yeah perfect perfect and I
actually that is more or less the occasions which it occurs
and that's sort of an episode 1120 was an interview I did
with Jerome and I I'm not going to butcher his name anymore
than I already have about the Razor Qt project and I think
in this month there were two examples of an interview
doing well and an interview done very badly by the
interviewer and I think I got the short story all this month.
No I disagree I like it. Yeah it was a really easy
interview but I was for myself been very negative about
the whole KDE desktop because I happened to be on my
wise machine doing the recording at the time and it kept
popping up every five seconds where do you want to update? No
do you want to update? No and it was getting extremely frustrating
and I was getting a lot of feedback also tonight because
my SQL database running for no reason I have no idea why
and so I was being very negative but in fairness to your
own he was very very very respectful of the KDE
community which of course I should be as well because
they do a great great project. Well I was very interested in this
content as this machine I'm working on now I've got the
original version the release of Razor Qt and that
that reminds me I need to go back and see if I can
update it or put it this new version on there were just a couple
things because it's a very very young desktop that I kind of
kind of needed it and weren't there. I use
an external monitor so I have multiple monitors and one
thing it's got in KDE that they didn't is if you know
a window gets moved off the monitors where it's not on
either not on either one I can right back and and
and say move and and grab it and drag it back
to some place I could see it and that's the one thing
the original Razor didn't have that's probably the only
reason I'm not running it. I think that's that's fixed now.
Didn't we have a show last month or the month before
from the guys who who did the database that
that replaces mySQL. Yeah Miranda DBS.
Maria Maria Maria. Sorry Maria. Now can you just
drop that in and uninstall the the mySQL. Yeah, but
the point is why should a desktop be running mySQL at all
especially when I'm not using any of the the it's
there to do this this does not know. Yeah, but I'm not
even using KDE either and I'm not using a pin manager.
Sorry, I'm not using K mail I'm not using a pin manager.
I'm not using I've gone through the list of all the
things that I'm not using on my KDE desktop and the
anaconda thing still or not anaconda but that's a new
that's the one. Yeah, it continues to run. I've
done. I've followed the book reports. I I have this
problem too and it still is it still is running and
remove it can't stop it and it's it's it happens to be
on my wife's machine and I just I'm going to switch it
over some time. Why can't you remove it? What's what's
depending on it? If you remove mySQL the whole KDE
desktop disappears it's all it's all compound it's all
compiled in which is why on my laptop I switched to
Razer Qt and I've got that KDE look and feel that I like
and I've got the configurability that I like as well.
In fact more configurability than I actually would like
because you have to do a lot more on the files than
you normally would but it's it's a lightning fast
desktop and really really slick. Nice.
And I ask is it really also the ISQL server package
which it depends on or is it really only the mySQL client
part? No, the database the server. Okay.
So I I I understand what KDE has been trying
to do. It's been an interesting project but to be honest
it goes against the Unix philosophy of doing each
task doing a small job and doing it well. So in Razer Qt
you have to fight. No, I I've been very silent right now
because everything KDE is saying I basically agree with.
Yeah, I don't want to get into this right now. I can't
comment too much on it but yeah this this neck
is just like I don't know in my mind it's a little bit
of a travesty might drive me away from KDE eventually.
And they don't want to run but hey why not.
I I see people complaining about the longstanding
KDE users and longstanding KDE supporters and in fairness
I in an old tattoo stuck with them.
KDE through the you know the whole for move
but they're the philosophy is is completely just
it's just yeah it's well if you're looking for
something that respects that like you said the Unix
philosophy the modularity thing that I I don't think people
I don't think it's an argument that KDE is where you should be looking.
So I'm really happy to see that Razer Qt could be
the place that you know I end up in later on.
I'm I'm going to probably because of your your interview
I'll probably be trying Razer Qt on my triple EPC
which I haven't really been running KDE on anyway.
I've been doing fluxbox so maybe this is time to kind of
look for another cute based solution because I love Qt.
I just I don't know if I can handle the the monolith
that is KDE on all of my devices.
And it's still running Razer I can still have
access to Kate and various different things without
without any hassle on you but enough about that.
We had the following 1121
KDE continues his networking series on Samba how to
and I'm very glad KDE that you brought back this series.
Yeah you know long long running series I guess just
as I learn new stuff but the Samba thing I figured
was a good basic basic how to on on something that's kind
of important in the Linux world file sharing.
Yeah absolutely and it's it's on all platforms
and even I think even if you're a Unix
if you've got a complete Linux house at home
and because Samba is aware that to the send sender
and receiver are Unix it will cut out a lot of the
it'll short cut a lot of the protocols and go
to a very fast Linux solution.
Yeah and I really want to compliment you Cloud 2
on your explanation was a lot more straightforward
and simple than than many of them that I've seen and heard.
That's probably because I don't know as much.
But yeah cool glad to example.
I will second that because I have tried to understand
Samba before it's always been something I wanted to do
and I wanted to get into but any description of it
I've read online is I can't understand it at all
and I understood the show real well and I'm gonna
I'm gonna put this one up there next to
the source trunk episode this month of
what was the server he went over the simple DLNA
or something like that.
These two things look like they could really work together
to in my house.
Yes but don't really know for me I haven't
since the source trunk episode yet so
give me a minute.
Cloud 2 there is one thing that you should probably know
is that you can tie in Samba password database
into the Unix database.
So that when the change of password on one
it's also much transferred to the other.
Oh I didn't know that.
I'll have to look into that.
Thank you.
That sounds like a show can.
It would be if I had managed to do it more than once.
Well if I figured out that it'll be in it then
sorry go ahead and need it.
If I'm not mistaken the password database
as used by Samba is constructed in the same way
as at C++ shadow.
So I think if you just point it to that file you are done.
Cool.
I'll look into it because I think you're I'm pretty sure you're right.
I'm pretty sure it's the same syntax.
I'm not sure.
Yeah I wouldn't guarantee that because when I looked at it
it was you needed to load a palm module,
palm Samba or something.
Oh okay interesting.
Well I'll look into it.
Warning to whoever is doing this is do a little bit more research.
Sorry I just raised the flag that it might be possible.
But yeah I'm in my prime.
I'm saying you should do that and then use the password
manager from the Samba to change your own password and stuff
like that.
I'm thinking that it's I'm just thinking it's the same format
and you could be a do it that way but in that case you should
really shouldn't do the password changes from the Samba site
if you want to do that then using a palm module is indeed
a way better approach.
My problem file sharing has always been I can not
getting it that up but exchanging the shared keys.
Some reason I can never get that to work right.
So I can't I can't set up a file share in my NCS tab.
I always have to just do it in a terminal manually once I'm logged in.
For what type of share?
Well I usually use the chase SSHFS but if I'm dragging
and dropping files I take the easy way out and use jiggle low.
Okay you need for the first part you need to do SSH-copy-id
and then the IP address using them as IP address and that will
copy your ID files over for your pre-shared key.
Okay and after that over the second.
I've come across some distros that don't ship SSH-copy-id.
Okay well up to do it and install it.
And for the second one can you please do an episode on jiggle low?
Well I've been meaning to do one on SSHFS and jiggle low.
I've been trying to figure out my shared keys problem so it would be complete.
If you want I can give you a hand offline and that one.
Okay well I have to do that sometime.
Super duper.
Yeah my problem with file sharing has always been that I don't have anyone to share files with.
Oh so sad.
Isn't it?
You can probably share it with Richard Stoneman.
Maybe.
What kind of files do you want to share?
Oh I actually don't.
I would just like to back up some stuff that I keep losing.
If you want Poki, let's talk offline.
Not those files can.
I can't share those.
So long as the encrypted I don't care.
That's breaking international was there.
There you go.
Over here everything's legal.
I need to.
Well not everything sadly.
Okay 1122 was Linux and the shell with the Ellen command.
And again I thought at the beginning of this there is nothing down can tell me about this
command that I don't already know.
And yet again he proves me wrong.
This one was awesome.
I listen to this twice.
I feel kind of angry at Dan because technically speaking like if you think about it he's
always does is like read the man page really really carefully all of them were carefully
than any of us have.
And then he explains it all and it seems like he's telling us this brand new information
and it is brand new information.
But I feel like it's he's cheating or something.
But man I love this information.
You just meant because he thought of it first.
Exactly.
I've read a lot of man pages without fully understanding what what they were telling me.
Yeah I don't know how he.
The day on that he does.
Yeah I don't know how he parses all that information.
Absolutely.
Couldn't agree more.
It is.
This is exactly.
Well I liked in this when he got towards the end he says well here here's option to argument
to do this.
You're never ever in your room to use this.
No one needs to do this.
Yeah this is how you would do it.
Yeah it's classic.
So let's move on and do a segue move bike computers.
Now tell me this American fault on the line.
Is that phrase a segue a well known thing in the States before the segue bike things
that just stand on happened or was that a just a regular term that was in use?
Anyway.
In music it was pretty well known.
So in that community I think everyone knows it.
I don't know about like outside world of me.
Well I think it'd be fairly prominent broadcasting.
Yeah.
I don't remember anything that far back that was doers drugs back then.
Okay but there was move bike computer.
Sorry go ahead.
Dude man was asking what the segue bike thing you're talking about.
It was not really a bike.
Dude man it's the thing with the two wheels next to each other and it auto balances
itself with gyros and stuff and people use it to replace walking.
Yeah because that's what we Americans need to do.
We can't we can't be bothered to walk.
We don't need that kind of exercise.
You can say that again.
Yeah but you see that the people who are on them tend to be.
That's airports and stuff.
And they tend to have a lot of firearms so you tend to go.
Your first instinct is go oh look at the stupid person on the segue
and then your next instinct is to look away.
Can we can she pursue?
I can't say I can't look at them ever since I saw Ricky Dervace on one.
Am I the only one here who doesn't know who Ricky Dervace is?
Yes.
I have no idea.
I know somebody who has a segue and she actually uses it for practical.
Purpose and I can't really bag on her too bad for using it.
Because she uses it to ride about two and a half miles to work and not drive a car.
And she does ride a bicycle sometimes but she uses this thing too.
About a year ago I saw one that it was a prototype.
It was a single wheeled unicycle deal.
It folded up about the size of a briefcase.
And if you hit the button, the wheel would drop out of the bottom of the briefcase
and then both sides would fold down and you would stand on that and go.
And for those of you who are not up Ricky Dervace is the guy who did the English version of the office.
And who did the Emmys, not the Emmys, the office of the other one.
That is since the Emmys with the Oscars.
Not the Oscars, the other ones, the international press one.
Academy Awards.
No, they're the Oscars.
I thought he did do the Academy Awards and made everybody mad this last year.
Yeah, he did. He was really offensive and was really rude about Brad Pitt and Andrean really wasn't he?
Yes, but it wasn't the Academy Awards.
It was the other one that is in the Academy Awards.
The podcast Awards.
No, Brad, you're making this.
Don't we continue to the episode?
No, we are not moving forward until we know what the other...
It's as bad as Golden Globe in the Rose Bowl screen actors build.
Those are the only ones that Wikipedia knows about.
Yeah, it's a screen actor's guild one.
No, no, it's not.
If they Golden Globes or something, he has the Golden Globes.
That's not quite the Oscars, but anyway, he made a handbag of himself on this war.
He'd never come back and then he was back the next year doing this as well.
But moving on, yes, about the episode move by computer.
It was about GPS tracking, hills and hikes and stuff.
And I actually use another app called Open GSM Tracker, does anyone use that one?
I use it on an almost daily basis.
Do you know?
Yeah, I'm constantly tracking.
Well, I shouldn't say every day.
I use it at least once a week, sometimes two or three times a week.
I stopped using it on a daily basis because my tracks were beginning to be redundant
and useless.
But every time I go in the woods, I turn it on.
I use it for navigation and I get home.
I upload the tracks and I edit the open street map.
I'm a big advocate of that.
You're in the man.
You are at the man.
The following day we had 1124, which was pub brewers episode 35.
And this was with Becky's favorite host.
Yeah, voice like chocolate by a brown.
And the following day we had Toki Timi News 1125.
And then we had another one with CT, the Drupal Camp of Adam Evertson.
Before you get too far, I just want to say that pod brewers episode was real, real good.
And I'm going to have to burn that to a CD for a friend of mine who brews his own beer.
Because I think that's worth a six pack.
I want the big red recipe.
There is a whole website box.
I mean, there's more than just one episode.
No, right on.
But I'm going to use that episode to turn the guy on to it.
I particularly love it.
I particularly love it.
You go ahead 51.
I did this one one to say.
Next month we'll be talking about a new series that a buyer has started and contributing to
HPR called Shandard Grom where he interviews sign and authors talks about
sci-fi on the web, etc.
Very cool.
Okay.
That's good to know.
What I was going to say was I particularly like the rundown of the various different terms
involved in brewing, at least home brewing.
And I think there's a lot of jargon actually that's when you get into any particular area
you need to pick up to even know where to start.
Nido, thanks for coming on, man.
We're sorry to hear that you're not feeling good, dude.
Okay.
See you, Nido.
Sorry that you can stay on, dude.
Yeah, sorry.
He just posted in the text message that he's not feeling well.
He's going to sign off.
But it was good to have you.
Okay.
The following day we had, did I just skip one?
Yeah.
Well, the Drupal camp.
Yes.
Drupal camp.
Anyone use Drupal?
A little bit.
It was a, yeah, I thought it was an interesting episode.
Yeah.
Don't really use Drupal myself, so there you go.
The following day we had a AFP Fulture, and another woman in Class 2 series.
To be honest, I have no interest in this.
Never.
Believe it.
I have no interest in this, but it was important to get it out there.
I just had to disclose the stuff that I knew about this thing.
It's horrible, though.
Quite, I have to admit, I almost skipped it.
You should have.
You could have at least slept.
And I mostly slept through it.
But I, I, I got to admit, the guilty pleasure.
I listened to it just to feel smug.
Nice.
I, I can read that.
I actually listened to it long enough so that if I ever I do come across an AFP Fulture,
I at least know something about it.
I have enough information to Google about what it is that I need to do.
Yeah.
Good.
It reminded me of my own troubles with, uh, with AFP this year.
I think, uh, all in the, when the first version of OS X 10.1 came out,
suddenly at the school, none of the, uh, Macintoshes would talk to the, uh,
the server, the Windows server anymore.
And, well, I guess we couldn't, they, they go on, it's good and open of on.
I, I found out that, uh, even though it was an update,
the app, Apple blamed it on, uh, windows, no, no longer supporting their file for the
format.
Must've been when we put in the newspaper.
Yeah.
It's been too, too long ago.
But I mean that they just got, they got in a tiff of each other.
And suddenly the way I had a back setting, uh, getting the Mac's access to Windows server
no longer work.
And when, when I did get, when I did get them working again, you could no longer just open
the file, come within, in line and, and open the, open the file and, uh, that,
that lived on the shared folder on the server, edit it and then close the file.
It would, it would always, uh, you could edit it, but it, it wouldn't, it wouldn't
save when you, when you closed it.
Isn't that great?
Third point.
Isn't that great?
Fifty one, fifty, how you can just completely yank the rug out from under someone's feet
and convince everyone else in the room that that person forgot how to walk.
Right?
And the, the trouble is the third party in this.
This, you know, you know, it just blew me away.
They would even say this to me.
I go to Adobe and Adobe says, no, no, no, we, uh, you, you can't open a file on a, on a shared
volume, uh, with our software.
If you, if you want to edit a file, you have to copy it to the local computer, open it
there and, and manipulate it and then say, then a program and then save it back to, uh,
to the server.
And of course that would be fine for a user like me and you, but, uh, these were, these were
high school kids.
They didn't know from, oh, opening a file on the server.
They didn't, they didn't even realize the files were not, not there locally.
Well, they kind of did, but explaining to them, no, you got, you got to get this file.
And I, I think that, I think when they, until they quit trying to use the max years later,
they were just doing everything on the local machine.
Okay.
That is amazing.
Anyway, we'll, uh, we'll move off the AFP file share with the hope that we will never,
ever have to come across it again.
It's, it's astonishing how incredibly long these descriptions of Apple just working are.
Okay.
I challenge anyone to, uh, the following episode was compilers part four, which was a
seekplug episode and way over my head.
Oh, it's so far over my head.
I picked up one or two of the things she was, I didn't understand the majority of it.
And I think that's okay because I'm not writing compilers.
But I picked up one or two of the math things she was talking about.
And I felt so smart for a minute.
Yeah.
Yeah, I did, I did guess, you know, some of the words it was like as if, um,
somebody was, you were learning a language, you go to a foreign country and you've
done a little bit of their, you know, first time ever been in France, for instance,
picking up a few words and you kind of have an idea of what she's talking about,
but I'm, I know from talking to other people about this episode,
I got a lot of feedback on this episode and, you know, people are saying,
you know, they're really fantastic about really explaining it very well.
So I guess if you're in the zone there, um, she knows what she's doing.
I, I will say about Sigflop that, you know, if there were an award for the
HPR host who can pack the most amount of content in the least amount of time,
that's her.
The her shows are so dense with, you know, pure information.
And for those of you following along there, she has, um, JPEGs in the
episode, uh, so she has very good show notes unlike some other people who have contributed
to shows this month.
Hmm.
I wonder who you're talking about.
Would you want a picture of Richard Stalman?
No, no, no Richard Stalman's one was fine.
Anyway, um, the next day we had a show by a paranoid cell.
How I got into Linux, a spontaneous episode that, um, he voluntarily did
without any black coaxing, whatever, or encouragement to my part.
You did an amazing job of editing out all of the background noise of the horse
whip.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
But seriously, it's that easy.
Just go on to mobile, press the record button and then, you know, email in your,
your, uh, ported episode.
And then for the last show of the month, we had, uh, DeepGeek.
It's talking to me news featuring the voice of Northern than Poké.
Well, that was it for the shows for this month.
And I got to shake a fist at DeepGeek because I swear there was at least three stories
that he had me read for this one that he only chose for the tongue twisters.
And I was listening to it going, he is just saying of those, you know, German words.
And he has, he has the, uh, he has the pronunciation perfect and it just flows
straight through.
And, you know, there, anybody who will say that, you know, Americans are not able to,
you know, speak foreign language is properly or non-seat the words or whatever,
it's, you know, it goes out the window, you know, you, you, you have to know
their stereotype blown out of the water.
Well done, Poké.
No, no, not true at all.
No, I don't think it was evolved.
We've all played in the lies.
Yeah, each one of those, each sentence was probably five to six takes.
And I, I kind of, I can cheat a little with German because back in high school,
we had a couple of German exchange students living with us.
So I got some of the pronunciation down, some of the sounds that are, you know,
not in the English language at all.
And so when I, when I read German words, I can kind of hear those.
But I, I think I mispronounced, you know, a couple of the reporters names and stuff
easily.
I just, I faked that completely.
Now you did read it great, you did great job.
It's Steve Geek looking for other people to contribute or to read stories.
Yeah, female voice especially would be fantastic.
What, female English?
Yeah.
Well, you get to have everything.
Bobo, they're also looking, Bobo Vex.
They're also looking on the DistroWatch podcast always for narrators.
Really?
Yes, really.
See, I'm quite, I'm quite happy.
I can talk about other people's share.
It's just me and I can't talk about.
Yeah, reading stuff off is easy.
Dude, man.
Yeah, I was going to say as a helping Bruce for the last few months during the DistroWatch
that I am sure Bruce and I will be very happy to share our alternate week cycle with,
however, many other people want to help and contribute.
So, you know, contact me or Bruce.
Absolutely no problem if you want to read stuff out.
We can pick the most difficult parts out if you want to help us with this one little part
or by all means take a whole episode and just read it out.
I mean, a lot of people don't actually realise that the shows are actually just read out,
you know, from the online content.
I certainly didn't in the beginning.
So, we don't want to let too much of the magic out, but anyone can do it basically.
See, that's something that I would be really interested in doing because I do like the English language
and I do like reading.
And that way I can feel that I'm probably contributing something back.
So, where would I contact you if I wanted to speak about that?
I hear you on Hacker Public Radio is a great place.
No, I'm serious, there's one coming up on Monday and it's my turn.
And if you would like to help me and Kay Krischer on it,
or even do it yourself, I'd be very happy to upload it.
Although I very much enjoy doing it.
It's great to carry on doing it and to do it have more time to do even other projects as well.
So, I can speak to you after this and give you my contact details.
Yeah, I can speak after this.
And remember, Bobobix, that Mr. Chuckless Boy, himself,
is also a contributor to that project.
Ha, ha, ha, ha.
Shush, my husband's listening.
It's okay.
See, that books, HPR, making friends and influencing people, you can get in on this.
Okay, we'll quickly just nip through some of the stuff that's been going on on the mailing list
before we get on to HPR.
Oh, yep, what?
Why?
He's unmuted.
Ha, ha, ha.
I was going, oh, you're lying.
So, I've got your numbers.
But you don't have the price of the flight to get over as far as this.
Ha, ha, ha.
And speaking of which.
Shush, cyber attacks can cyber attacks.
Hey, Becky, let me clue you in on a little secret here.
Um, we nerds don't know a lot of girls, even though we really like girls.
So, you could pretty much do anything you want in this community.
Just say it.
Oh, don't give me carte blanche.
No, seriously.
I mean, I married my geek.
I'm not giving you a carte blanche.
I'm telling you it's there.
It exists.
Um, just so you know, Becky's not a girl.
She's a lady.
Right on.
She's a lady.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
She's a lady.
Okay.
Why did I have to sing the Thursday apology?
Can you, you're a better singer already?
I, I have a long standing.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I'm a singer already.
I'm a singer actually.
He can dance as well.
Oh, no.
No, dance.
Not so much.
You did.
That was brilliant.
No.
How many, how many dollar bills did he collect?
Moving on.
The development mailing list has been pretty active this month with, um, the audio submissions
page epic canus, not to be mixed up with anus, has been working on the audio submission
page.
And we've been kind of going back and forth as well on that, uh, about what we want
on there.
And Bobo Bex, we would appreciate your input, um, shortly as to how simple we can make
it.
We've gone to the extreme where it's gotten too complex and we're pulling it back.
But also we had, uh, there's a, I had a long discussion last month on mumble as well,
which we recorded with Dave Morris about what the whole eventual system is going to be.
And I think talking through that with Dave has, uh, clarified it somewhat in my mind.
And I'm actually interested to listen to the show to see if my opinion of what I said
at the time has changed or not.
Awesome.
So that was it.
That was the oldest submissions page.
There was some questions about the download figures and what they are, um, when the Q started
going a bit low, I was also working on the transcoding, um, uh, tool which, um, co-cruncher
started off.
And I've done quite a lot of work on that.
So that's, uh, based on help from, uh, plateau, based on help from Dalmoshko, based
on help from Nido, who's just left and also Cobra, uh, Cobra 32, isn't this?
Two.
Cobra, two.
Yep.
Uh, who've all been, you got an in cobra beat, you got in and being cobra early.
Well, they've given me, uh, all of those people have given me lots of, uh, advice on what
the best way forward is.
So what we're doing and Boba Bex, she can close your ears for this because this is development
section.
Uh, we're, we're transcoding from whatever we get into a well-known format.
And from there, um, we can transcode down to the other, um, to the other formats, um,
quite easily.
And as a result of doing that, um, I was looking at, where is the, where is the metadata
going to come from?
And, uh, I think Epicanos and myself were thinking, well, we put it in the upload form,
but now we're actually thinking, well, if we, if we steal it from the, uh, uploaded
media file as opposed to the uploaded form, that way, if somebody knows how to fill it
in, they'll fill it in, and if somebody doesn't know how to fill it in, well, we'll have
enough basic stuff in the upload form to be able to do it.
We also, as a result of working on that, I've found, um, uh, a way to identify if the intro
and outro have been put in, uh, by using a sucks as a way to, you know, that waveform thing,
the spectrograph and get in audacity, uh, in, in audacity, it's a waveform, but from sucks,
you can actually get a JPEG out showing, you know, the waveform, and it comes very obvious
when looking at one of the, one of them, whether the intro or outro is it, and the reason,
uh, go ahead.
That is brilliant.
That is astonishingly brilliant.
Well, it's, it's kind of handy because, um, with the intro and outro, people like to
post some people not pointing my finger at you virtually, Poki, like to mess around with,
like to mess around with the intro and outro, and not put it seven seconds from the front
and seven seconds from the back.
So you end up putting two intros in or two outro in because you've, you've listened to
it for a second and there's been text or you've listened to it for a second and there's
been, sorry, speech.
So, uh, with that, what, uh, so I've written this, I could not throw away that storm in
life.
Absolutely not.
Absolutely not.
I was classic because I got Tissleweb, uh, from the crewman's podcast asking me, um,
so you're releasing it in MP3, storm on, doesn't like MP3 and then I go listen to the first
a few seconds of the podcast.
Yeah, he had me rolling on the floor with that.
That was, I don't know if he meant it to be funny or not, but it was.
Yeah, it's classic.
He is, he, you know, people don't realize this, he's a funny guy, but you just, when
you're not beating him with a stick, he can be a funny guy.
It's, yeah, I had, uh, I had seen him in, in the Netherlands as well and he also had
plenty of time, uh, in the after session, you know, there was no rush and he just a funny
relaxed guy.
Okay.
So they, anyway, what I was going to say was that with the transcording thing, what I'm
going to do is have, um, quite a lot of, of, of, take trying to simplify the, uh, um,
the upload form.
So it's more like just, it feels more like sending an email into HPR.
So the subject line is the title and, you know, a little summary and, uh, and just whatever
your show notes is going to be and send in the upload.
And then if people want to send in a more detailed thing, they'll send in a flat file
with all the fields in covenants and then we'll take it from there.
And that way, um, when we do the initial check for new files coming into the whichever location
they're going to be coming in, then the pre-processing will, you know, virus check, do check to make
sure that's an audio file, do the media info, check to see what audio tracks there are and
then it'll compile a really compressed, uh, small socks version of the entire show, send
that to us and then send a segment probably halfway through podcast just to get the audio
quality in and we'll also send, uh, a JPEG image of the spectrograph so that you can, you
know, the mailing list that will be, um, you know, checking this, the human check in this
whole thing, at least we'll be able to look at the, uh, at the JPEG and go, okay, they
can throw an outro in there, um, I can have a quick listen to the audio sample, you
know, a five-second sample of the audio is the audio, okay, and then just a quick scan
through the speaks file that you, you know, a small speaks file just to see that the content
is in spam outside of the five seconds that somebody would know because they've onto
the website and found out what it is.
Um, some other stuff, um, there was a discussion about bedding music, um, which, uh, I think
you, dude, man, also use quite a bit.
Yeah, I've got this kind of, uh, soothing, bird cow, by the, by the soothing, uh, soothing
cows.
I hate cows.
Back to it.
I, I, I want to like to find a way to put it as a back-and-track for all the podcast,
I listen to, you know, very good, very good, but, uh, yes, the, the, if you want
to use the back-and-track.
That's fine.
If you don't, that's fine too.
Just remember.
But some of us appreciate that when you don't.
Yes.
Some of us who speed up our podcast and have listened in mono, definitely appreciate it.
Um, yes, a big thanks to all the people who sent in, um, shows for this month were, uh,
where we've got, I think, four free slots before the end of the year.
So, um, congratulations, Hacker Public Radio lives for another year.
And the Doom's Day show is being recorded on the 31st.
Exactly.
And let's segue into that.
Segway, shall we?
Okay.
Take it away.
Um, okay.
So, last year, if anyone, you know, is new enough not to know this, uh, last year we
did a 12-hour New Year's Eve show.
We, we streamed it live and we recorded, uh, 13 hours of a 12-hour show, 13 and a half,
I think.
Um, and then we put it out as separate episodes on HPR and the important part was that members
of the Hacker Public Radio community listeners, whether they had done a show or not, um, especially
if you haven't done a show, um, people called in.
They, um, they got online, they got on mumble, got in the same room with us and they participated
in the show and it was fantastic.
It's one of my, it's probably the highlight of the past year, but it's one of the highlights
of my life to be part of something that was so, um, significant, uh, to, you know, such
a large community of people and a community that I care about.
I typically, uh, trend away from large communities, but, you know, Hacker Public Radio is different
and it's very cool.
So we wanted to do it again this year and Ken was so confused in saying that it was 24
hours, that it finally stuck.
So we're going to do 24 hours this year instead of 12 hours.
No, it won't.
It'll be 24 hours.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, clever manipulation you did there.
So he wants to do 24 hours and the reason for such a long show is that that's a 24-hour
window within which anyone can call in and we've removed all of your excuses at the same
time, which is kind of convenient for us.
So you have no excuse not to call in.
Oh, I was at my own laws.
I was at blah, blah, blah.
Now you got plenty of time.
It's a 24-hour show and, and you're our friend and we want to hear from you.
You know, you're a Hacker Public Radio listener.
You're, you're one of us, you know, come participate, come be part of Hacker Public Radio.
I think what was really good about last year was that it turned out to be, um, more than
just Hacker Public Radio as a host thing was the Hacker Public Radio community invited
on other podcasters that they also listened to.
So in my role as, I don't know, as, as a HPR host, I just happen to be a member of, you
know, other communities and you invite them in as well and I really want the HPR community
to go out and get other podcasters that you listen to to come in and join in and say,
hello to their listeners because, you know, it's not about one show having an event that
this is our event because, you know, we couldn't have done it last year without a very fantastic
help from the Linux Basics community, from the, um, open source, open source positions podcasters that,
yeah, we used their server and their streaming, um, that was, that was, uh, a pipe man music
who, who had set that up, pipe man.
And I think, uh, K5 talks and, and their podcasters were in as well.
So let's, what I want people to do, listen to this, if you've met it this far an hour
and 18 in, is to contact, uh, I would, to contact other podcasters that you listen to and
say, look, this thing is going on Hacker Public Radio as a community podcast.
It's not, uh, them, we're just kind of pushing it as a service to other podcasters.
So if other people want to come in, we're going on the Linux Basics server anyway.
So, um, if they have case and set up that they have, they might be able to, uh, help us
and plug their infrastructure into the mumble server, take a feed off that and start streaming
to their audience for however long that they wish to do that as well.
So we need help that way.
And if you really want to help them out, um, and, and you can get their attention and
they want to do this, help them set up mumble so that, uh, they got, you know, good audio
quality and, um, you know, can, can, uh, you know, speak to their audience and to HPRs.
Um, we do need volunteers on the day.
Uh, we need people to come on, do shows, have a little bit of segments when the downtime.
We need, yep, and hosts, we need hosts because I, I can be here from, from noon to midnight,
uh, Eastern, U.S. time, but that's, you know, that's about all I can do.
It took me, it took me three days to edit it last year after that, uh, and that was just
cutting, cutting up.
So if anybody even wants to take over some of that, that's fine, but I can commit to that
much of it.
We need people to fill in the other 12 hours.
They, from the point of view of editing, what will be happening is it will break on the
hour. Each hour will be divided up.
It'll be chunky, run through the script, truncated silence, and it will be uploaded
to the show, uh, to the ready to rock in sequence.
So there will be little or no editing.
I will do the, uh, the chopping if I can get the audio files from people.
So you'd rather, you'd rather break it at the hour than try to break it at
conversational breaks.
They, whatever, that's, let's worry about that.
But I want the, okay, to take regular stops.
And, um, because I was starting this thing off over an hour side.
So, uh, we would take regular stops every now and again, take, maybe I don't know, 10,
10 minutes past the hour or something, take a five minute break, uh, where we play
some music or something.
And then, uh, stop and restart the, uh, the wild file, make sure they're working
up low of them to this, to the FTP server.
And then, uh, you know, go on again.
Ken was just wants to guarantee getting 24 shows out of this.
Yarp, you know me so well, you know me so well.
And, you know, we may not want to, we'll have to put them at fair, really close.
Yeah, but we're going to run in the same trouble we had if we try to do them 24 shows
all back to back.
It'll be a month and a half before, uh, anybody else out.
That was only a week last year.
So, I mean, it's doable.
We can do it.
We can definitely do it within the first two, uh, the, reserve the first two
weeks for it.
And then whatever length of audio we have recorded, it will not go outside of the
first two weeks of January.
Yeah.
And I want to make this explicitly clear.
If you can hear this, you are invited.
And this is a party.
This is, this is, you know, come have fun.
We're not, we're not doing this to, uh, it's not stuffy at all.
We had a lot of fun with this last year.
And that's the intention is to have fun and to get a couple of shows out of it.
But, um, it's, it's, you know, mostly to, to have fun to stir up sightment
in Hacker Public Radio.
And, you know, that's what it, that's what it's there for.
Yeah.
Can I just throw a, oh, I can't count on the screen being safe for work.
No, no, it won't be.
No, I'll becky's on.
I was just going to say actually that, um, last year's show was actually my first
introduction to Hacker Public Radio and taking part.
I'd met Ken in real life, the August before.
Orc camp and, you know, what's it realized?
Um, who he was and what he did.
And so we came along and joined in.
And, you know, since then, we've been a part of the Hacker Public Radio community.
And, you know, loving it, you don't, you don't have to email.
You don't have to be a geek.
You can be female.
You can be, I mean, even our daughter sometimes, you know, she knows what we're doing.
And I'm sure she would love to join in.
It's just her nerves, but anyone can.
But you're right.
It isn't, it's definitely not suitable for work.
She posts stuff on Twitter, like she posts, like the stuff she posts on Twitter.
And she's afraid to come on to HPR.
Are you serious?
Did you see the toilet roll post?
Yes, I did.
You should have seen the post that Philip was going to do back over the top is correct.
End of discussion.
I, um, I'm using her Twitter feed as a, is, is the glimpse into the future of what I can expect in,
um, in five to six years.
Having a teenage daughter is a joy sometimes.
So we're going to start this.
Can if I get this right, we're going to start this at, um, you, what,
12, oh, one, uh, on the date line, right?
Whatever that time is.
Yeah, it'll be, I will start before that.
So whenever the first zone hits, that's when we start on whenever the last zone hits,
that's when we stop or that's when we hand over to 51 50 and, uh,
and, uh, if they haven't died of alcohol poisoning, but, well,
somebody's going to have helped me because I don't understand, uh, his logic,
but Cobra 2 says he can't be there because his wife, I don't understand that logic.
She listens at work, he's getting a lot of trouble.
I would never.
Yes, but, uh, I think we need to focus on.
It's the Hacker Public Radio party, um, where you as a, a, bring all the other communities
that there are out there and, um, let's get open doors, email all your favorite
hosts and the favorite chills and, uh, it's a good chance for them to come on,
shoot the breeze, have a chat, um, and we need to get the open source musician guys back on.
Yeah, don't, don't, I was going to say, don't worry about me,
but you guys need to realize you may well kill Thistle Web.
Now I was, he's not already killed himself before.
Yeah, the, um, the open source musician guys, I just haven't seen them in a while.
And I, I, you know, when we were talking about choosing a server online, you know,
I suggested that, or I seconded Ken suggested that we go with the, um, the Linux basic server,
just because it's, it's been up and solid with lots and lots of users on it many times.
And I just, I hadn't even seen the open source musicians guys.
I don't, they don't take it as a, a slight, it was nothing personal or anything like that.
Okay, but actually, regardless what we can do is try and get some daisy chaining going,
um, we need to get people with IcedCast servers.
If you've got a server, know how to set up IcedCast.
We need people with how to's.
Uh, K, wish you there has set up, um, uh, is suggesting that they're going to give help to users,
users come on with audio quality issues, you can go into, uh, another room called, uh,
HPR, mobile help or something, which we'll set up.
Um, I think Poki closer to the day you were getting volunteers
from people we definitely need to get done from the Linuxing tech show off.
Um, I want to get, um, I'm sorry, I mean, on board with given us help,
how they pipe in audio and that sort of thing, because I want to be able to,
you know, um, if we're going to be doing 24 hours, I will need to go to the facilities
from time to time, have dinner from time to time.
And, uh, you know, if people want to have a think about maybe each hour,
we put on a few creative common songs or something and just have a discussion about the artist
and that sort of thing. Yeah, that's hard to stuff.
That doesn't have to be hard, Ken piping in other music, um,
but it does take a little bit of extra hardware.
So the, the only way that I know to do it, um, you know, is, is to have your computer set up
that you're using for mumble, you know, just the way you're doing it anyway,
but then have a second computer and instead of plugging a microphone into it,
plug an MP3 player into the mic input jack, the analog jack with, you know,
just like a double-ended, uh, what, three and a half millimeter chord.
And then you can use that second computer to, you know, pipe the audio from your MP3 player in,
you know, it's a hack, I know it's crude, but it does work.
Oh, no, that's cool.
I know a lot of people that use say their Android device just bites in mumble.
They can play that way, uh, red dwarf in doing that for sound effects on, on, uh, pod brewers.
I mean, at least figure out how to do, to do that.
We don't have to, uh, have a separate player.
And I think it had a separate computer.
Wouldn't be that hard to, uh, use jack redirect.
And I even asked, uh, the guy's over at the open source.
He wasn't, uh, pipe man.
It was, uh, the other guy had helped me out, but, uh, uh, they suggested.
Yeah.
Uh, they, he suggested we, we try, uh, if you wanted to do it all on one device,
because I kind of wanted to do the stealth thing, you know, not alert everybody.
Hey, I'm, I'm going to play a clip.
But, uh, and that, the reason for that's really gone past without me getting it done.
But he suggested, he said there's a way to do it with, uh, tie hydrogen in the jack.
And hydrogen is a drum machine, uh, program.
And I assume I haven't played with it yet.
I assume that you could, you could replace the drum rifts by just, you know, tracks that you want to play
and, and use that for, uh, the soundboard.
Yeah. So there's at least three ways to do it.
But just, you know, please test it before the day of, you know, if you want to do something.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh, uh, and, and when we were talking about open source music, uh, guys out the people are,
not just guys, girls, everybody out there who's a musician.
Uh, if you want something played as bumper music, uh, on the 24 hour show or interlude,
interlude music, uh, submit the meta link to, uh, adman at haveradio.org.
Thank you very much, 51.
Perfect idea.
Yeah, great idea.
And now I, I want to say that I, I, you know, if you want to do that, it's great.
I can't promise to play music all the time.
I had a lot of music planned for last year.
And we wound up, you know, it was, it was difficult to squeeze in that one live song
that, um, pipe man did because the conversation was so good.
It would have been, you know, a sin to interrupt it and, and, and, you know,
play something that wasn't live.
So, um, 24 hour sounds like a long time, but if people continue to call in,
then it's, it's like, you get a pretty much a refresh on all conversation every hour or so.
It just, it, it adds, goes smoother, I think, than we realized last year.
Oh, yeah.
It was astonishing how smooth it went just because people were calling it and refreshing like that.
You're absolutely right.
Doesn't matter.
We can still take these shows regardless and, uh, and, sorry, take the songs and stuff them into
a queue of, um, during the summer when things are, but, yeah, all right.
And we can edit the music in later too if we don't get a chance to be honest.
Exactly.
Um, good point.
We won't be editing them then.
We'll probably make another show, you know, suggest a music for the, uh, new year episode.
Dude Man has, um, also given a said that he does for his own podcast, um, with Alsa player and
Jack.
So, um, what I want is, uh, rather than also discussing it here as such, if people could email
me your setups or your tutorials on admin at hackerpublicradio.org,
and I'll put them on to a separate page on to the hacker public radio website, which
will probably be hijack, which will probably be the main, be the main page for the, for the entire
episode, um, so that we can do that.
Poki, I do like your idea of the hardware thing because I, more reliable, I think,
and I have a few spare players.
I also would like your, uh, it's, it's nice because it's not broken by an app yet update or
some such thing.
Yeah, exactly.
And there's a, there's a wire in there if it doesn't work and, uh, you can move something
else in.
Um, I also liked your idea of the FM Chan's mission, everything and I got one and it broke.
Oh, yeah, they're not, I don't know about in Europe, but the ones they sell in the states
are terrible.
They don't work well at all.
And there's one particular one that, um, is well understood, well enough understood
that you can hack it to get it to broadcast further and that just by luck happened to
be the one that, that somebody gave me and I was able to, to do that.
So if you're in the States, don't count on that working unless you can, unless you know
you can broadcast, you know, further than that.
Well, I, I only use it for relatively small amount of time and, um, uh, then the thing
just burnt out, it just played, you know, it's a real bummer.
It has just very depressing and sad.
Dude, man, that very nice, but can you email it to me?
Tutorial and documentation.
I even had it in mind this year, I, I, I, uh, I almost was able to get a wireless microphone,
like, you know, one that you'd use at a podium or, or given a speech or something like that
with a whole big receiver, I, I was gonna do that, you know, too, but I, I couldn't get
my hands on that.
Uh, bummer.
Yeah, my only, uh, I normally use a big lung, uh, extension cord, it's just the handiest
thing for me.
Yeah, well, you probably can't transmit through your brick wall house anyway.
So, yeah, true enough.
However, my house is not that big as I am, I'm but a poor person.
You're telling that we're kids.
Yeah, that's true.
Okay, yes, nice way to ask who's going to do the streaming, yes, very good question.
So there will be a limited number of people in the chat usually on what I plan, what I
think plan plans about what I will be doing is there will be a PC, yes, K, we sure everybody's
going to be streaming.
So what we will do is one or two people in one or two accounts in the mumble room will
stream to a central ice cast and from there people can murder the stream.
How does that sound?
I have no clue.
I'm just sounding professional.
Yeah, I think I think we have one or two very strong ice cast servers that have a lot
of bandwidth behind them.
Um, and I think we were going to, we utilized them last year, uh, and I think we were
planning on using those again.
So those servers will either, you know, take, um, take the stream right off the mumble
chat if they can or else, you know, somebody who's got the streaming figured out will pipe
the mumble chat into those streaming servers.
And if you want to stream, if you want to help out, um, you can tap off of those.
So, you know, it increases the delay, but it spreads out the bandwidth load so that we're
not hammering the server that we're using for mumble.
Uh, we're only asking it to do one or two streams instead of, you know, chewing up that
bandwidth that we're going to need for, for all our guests and everybody.
Just a quick question.
Have you spoken to door to door because I knew, you know, at the new radio.net, they have
unlimited bandwidth, um, I'm sure he would definitely set up a connection and just leave
it running all the time, you know, yes, that's something that, uh, we definitely need to
do.
A very wise man, uh, volunteer, the mumble server in the first place.
So a very wise man once said unlimited bandwidth just means you agree not to know what your
limitations are.
Yeah, but I think, yeah, go ahead, go ahead.
I think it's in this case.
It's not so applicable.
I think that, uh, it was pretty solid.
No, no, I, I, that why I wasn't saying that I just meant that, you know, if it can be spread
around, it doesn't hurt.
Sure, sure, sure.
Definitely.
What I'd like to do though is get this set up at least a week beforehand.
So we have here in this, uh, in this room, uh, is a permanent connection.
So anything going through this permanent connection will go through the mirror connection,
um, the mirror network so that we would have that up well and well in advance.
Yeah, we had last year we, we didn't have a chance to set it up beforehand.
Uh, we never could line that up.
So it was set up the day of and we were in here in the, the mumble chat and it was
about 20 people in here, you know, nobody was saying anything because they didn't want
it.
They wanted a way till it started, but, you know, it was kind of like an awkward, it felt
like standing in an elevator that wouldn't move and it was like completely packed and it
took a little while to get everything up and running.
Yeah, I think the plan is, um, get the, get the thing running and then we can do a pre-show
of, you know, truncate, so I truncate silence and then you put that out as a pre-show afterwards
that we'll start at 12 and then go from there.
Yeah, but I definitely don't want to be like on, on the day, um, messing with mumble servers
and streaming servers and all the rest of us, but just have the thing go.
Oh, and we need to record, uh, some sort of promo thing to send out to the podcasters.
You want to do that now?
Yes.
All right.
No, yeah.
No.
Yeah.
Uh, really?
Yeah.
Uh, what are we saying?
Just like, uh, join us on, you know, the software, you be free hacker.
And no, it's a party.
It's the HPR New Year's party.
Everyone come and join.
Hack a public video, New Year's party, everyone come and join.
Well, it's not, try not to, it's the Hack a public radio part.
It's the, we shouldn't becky do it.
I'm not saying it.
Go.
Hi, everyone.
What are you doing on New Year's Eve?
I know.
You're fed up of Turkey, you're fed up of alcohol come and join, uh, the mumble server
to join in with the New Year's Eve party and hack a public radio.
I'm very alcohol.
Yeah.
We're going to have alcohol.
It might be well sick of it by then.
They may indeed.
Okay.
With that, I'm calling on the whole.
Thank you very much, everybody, for, um, tuning in and we will probably be sending
a hang on a minute.
What?
What do the people need to record as well?
We got a Jew.
You did it.
That's it.
It's not just me.
That was it.
You said you don't have alcohol and Poke and I said we were.
You fuck us.
That's in there too.
Okay.
Does anybody else want to record a show?
Can we end the HBR show and then do the bumpers afterwards, please?
Yeah.
Okay.
Everybody say goodbye, starting with Boba Vex.
Goodbye.
Good night.
And thank you for listening.
You're awesome.
You're phenomenal.
Oh, bye.
Dude, man.
Thank you.
Goodbye, everybody.
5150.
Did you hit the party, everyone?
Okay, wish it.
Come on.
Say goodbye.
And that's goodbye for who?
And goodbye from Nido.
And it's goodbye from Nutla too.
Bye, everybody.
And Poke.
Hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Good night, guys.
Thanks for letting me be part of it again.
Howdy folks.
This is 5150 for Hacker Public Radio.
Remember how much fun we had last New Year's during the 13-hour live podcast and party?
We're going to have twice as much fun this year celebrating the full 24 hours of New Year's
Eve with guests from your favorite podcast and hosts from around the world.
You're invited to join in on Mumble when you can and listen on the live stream when
you can't.
The details will be posted on www.HackerPublicRadio.org.
Want to do something different this coming New Year's Eve?
Want to make some new friends, share some laughs and give something back to the community?
Then please come along and join in with the Hacker Public Radio New Year's Eve show, a 24-hour
Oggcast marathon.
We're running for the full 24 hours starting from Monday, December 31st at 1200 UTC.
I'll be there and I really want to spend my New Year's Eve getting to know you too.
The participation details are available at www.HackerPublicRadio.org.
Hi everyone this is Klaatu you may or may not know me from Hacker Public Radio and it
turns out we're throwing a party on New Year's Eve and everyone's invited whether you've
listened to Hacker Public Radio or not but if you've contributed or not you should stop
in on the mumble server mumble.openspeak.cc.
Hort 647 477 you can use any username you want drop in, say hi, eavesdrop, whatever you
want to do it'll be a lot of fun and it's going for 24 hours that's right UTC minus 12 the
whole UTC day will be broadcasting all day all night and we want you to join us.
Hey everybody this is Bokey from Hacker Public Radio we're putting on another party like
the New Year's Eve party we had last year.
If you have a computer and you can get mumble working on it we want you to join us on New
Year's Eve.
When is the party going to be?
It's going to be all day it's a 24 hour party so you have plenty of time to call and
participate.
If you're a podcaster, if you're a podcaster listener come and join us because this is our
thing this is our party we're getting together and we're doing it live we're going to stream
it live and we're going to re-broadcast the recording later and information is all available
at www.HackerPublicRadio.org please come along and join us on New Year's Eve.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday and Monday through
Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever considered recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital.Pound and the Infonomicum Computer Club.
HBR is funded by the Binary Revolution at binref.com or binref projects are proudly sponsored
by Lina Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinaPages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons, attribution, share
it, lead us our own lives.
