Episode: 1611
Title: HPR1611: HPR Community News for September 2014
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1611/hpr1611.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 05:51:02

---

its Monday 6 October 2014. This is HBR Episode 1611 entitled HBR Community News for September
2014, and is part of the series, HBR Community News. It is hosted by HBR Volunteers, and
is about 58 minutes long. Feedback can be sent to admin at hackappublicradio.org, or
by leaving a comment on this episode. The summary is,
this episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon, and you're listening to HBR Community News for September 2014.
This is a monthly show that is done by volunteers within the HBR Community, and joining me tonight
is Huka, and our normal co-host Dave is away having a wonderful time at AgCamp. So how you're
doing today, Huka? A little bit of a cold, but other than that, doing fine.
Excellent stuff. So how was your vacation? It was good. I was somehow the very first weekend of
August was the Dublin Irish Festival. That's Dublin, Ohio, and the United States, Ken, but it's
closest I'm going to get for now. And then the following beginning of September, it was
another folk festival. So they were all good fun. So what happens as a Dublin Irish festival?
A lot of Irish music and dancing and cultural stuff. So it's like three days of
of geeking out on your Irishness, I guess. Excellent. So you like Irish music, do you?
Oh, love Irish music. That's interesting. I talked to you offline about that some time.
Anyways, back dragging us back to the point. Could you introduce the new hosts for this month, please?
Well, it looks like we've got three of them. First is Steve Smethurst.
The second is To be Frank. And the third is Go Fear.
And we would like to welcome them to the network and look forward to hearing some fantastic shows.
So without further ado, let's quickly mosey through some of the shows for last month starting with
HBR community news for August 2014, which was a day when I won left stranded. So people went
on vacations just as a bite by the body. This is an open show. We normally schedule around
around 1600 UTC first the Saturday before the first Monday of the month, which seems to be
very complicated. But if you want to do this at a different time, you want to get a group of people
together and feel free to do that. That's absolutely no problem. All the show notes now are more or
less automatically generated by a proscript as it is my intention to replace myself and everybody else
here with proscripts if we could possibly do that. Yeah, more of the barrier. So the next day,
we had beginners guide to the night sky three, a wee dot in the dark sky. And this is Andrew
Conway from Tuxjam. And I do really enjoying his accent and I'm really enjoying this. It's nice
to have somebody refer to the constellations and then have a scientific using them for scientific
purposes. Oh, absolutely. I love this stuff. I get a lot of videos from NASA and the European
like the European Southern Observatory and things like that. So I love it.
I'm more more of these the better as far as I can say. Then we had the Ladies and Gentlemen
of the HBR Audio Book Club going strong with down and out in the Magic Kingdom. And they have
done really excellent job on the show notes. None made up continue. I can't stress how important
the show notes are. Although they spoiler highlight three highlights seems like a good idea.
Wood has presented me with problems on my tablets. So I'm a bit concerned about that but we can
always link if you have spoilers. We can link to another page for spoilers. That's not a problem.
Yeah, the only thing that occurs to me is why does it necessarily have to be audio book?
I mean, if you're going to get a bunch of people together to discuss a book,
could discuss any kind of book, couldn't you? You're good. But I guess the point here is
where podcasts and people are not actually listening to podcasts will kind of lend
themselves to other books as well or to other media in the podcast format.
No, I understand that. I listen to so many podcasts. I don't have time for audio books.
Yeah, I'm actually listening to thanks Dave Morris with his 4000 podcast thing. I'm listening
to escape pods. A lot of those short fiction episodes which are really nice. You can turn
yourself off for a half an hour. It's a podcast or my story and it's quick and really makes me
remember the days when I read lots of short science fiction stories. But only that's by the
to download some of the magic kingdom by Cory Doctor. This is one that I actually didn't read because
I don't know some of Cory Doctorals stuff just never kind of floated my boat. Nothing
intentional. The fall time sure is all mine, but I don't get it. I don't see just
doesn't turn me on. So be it. Indeed. Indeed. But we did get the wonderful program from Mr. Gadgets.
We did. Yes. Tell us about that. The Kansas City Maker Fair. Now I've met Mr. Gadgets at
Ohio Linux Fest. I don't know whether I'm going to see him there this year. That's still several
weeks away. But he's a wonderful fellow. And it was really nice hearing. I love hearing about
Maker Fares just in general. I get some wonderful movement. I couldn't agree more. Love the concept
myself. I find like the Maker Fares like the part in the Zen diagram where myself and my wife's
interests meet. Yeah. And I think a lot of when you talk about Maker Fares you're talking about
hardware stuff primarily. But that's a big part of where I think I worry about what's happening
to the internet is as becoming a purely consumer medium and not a place where people get in and
do things. Yeah, but there's still, yeah, I see your point, but there's still the, I was just
showing the kids today, the, you know, the TCPIP who come to the shelf going right. That's the
internet read that and you know how it works. So you can always, well, hopefully you can always
go down. We shouldn't take over granted, but you can go down to the packet level and invent more
stuff. Although that said, I do worry a little bit about how much stuff has been transferred over
the HDDB protocol. And people seem to think that's the only port that exists is Port80.
Yeah. Anyway, the following day we had the XFS file systems by JWP like these. They're short,
they're punchy and they just give you enough information to watch. They're the aperitif of file
systems. Oh, yeah, I love it. And you know, I guess the only question I have is the series over now
because I was looking ahead and I'm not sure I see much coming up. Well, there is the 14,
5, 6, 7, 8, 9. No, they're over. The better FS, the better FS was the last one and that was that
was on the third. So next month will be the, the next month review will be discussing that one.
Yeah. Okay, it's not like open office. You can drag it out forever. I'm afraid false
file systems end at a particular point in time. Are you saying after two and a half years I'm
dragging it out? No, no. Yes, yes, yes. The following day, ultimate cooking devices, like
these ones, real world sort of stuff. And I actually went to all the links. You should go to the links
in this because I had no idea what a Weber grill was, but then I quickly found out what it was.
Your basic kettle grill. Yeah, exactly. Well, oddly enough, in Ireland, the word barbecue is
synonymous for a rainy day. So the barbecue's tend to be an inspirational item as opposed to
something you've actually. Anyway, open source news break, open CMS tools for making presentations,
we can, we can project med. And this is part of the newscast series. And tell us what's going on in
the, in the open source news.com. And I like what semiotic is doing here because, you know,
the first few that he did was just, you know, real quick rundown in just a few minutes. But he's
now invited someone else to come in and join him and they actually discuss some of this stuff,
which I think makes it a lot more attractive. Yes, it's a bit like, yeah, putting something on
a cracker. I'm using a lot of food analogies tonight. I have no idea why, but then yes,
I miss your dinner. Yeah, no, no, I didn't. Far from us, in fact, I, no, I do, I did notice that
on the, I like the direction in which it's going on. I hope he continues. It's a, it was a bit like,
you know, the HBR community news, you have, you're essentially talking about shows as well.
And if there's a few people on, then you can get a bit of a conversation going as well. So a lot
less dry. Yeah. So part of the programming one-on-one series, why C++, go to it again,
with the C++ programming language and why you should use it. Yeah, I don't have a lot to say
because I'm not a programmer. I got a lot from this, to be honest. I did, I don't think I'd be
running out and start programming C++, but this is a nice like foundation stone for a little bit
background to the language. You don't feel as nervous going into it. It had me, I listened to the show
when I was doing a little bit of googling and like an hour and a half later I was going, okay,
I've got to stop now. I have find it hard enough and purl like so. But this is pretty cool.
The next day we had Andrew Conway with a steam and wine with the Linux, how to coax windows
only, steam game to work, under steam with GNU, slash the looks.
I like that because I'm a, I do enjoy the occasional game and then I do have steam
running on my Kabuntu box and I've got a number of Linux games but it was sort of interesting
to think, okay, I wonder if I can get some of my older games that are windows only to run this way.
How do you look? Oh, I have a chance. Yeah.
And the following day, more financial functions with Mr. Huca.
Indeed.
More good repayment schedules. It's depressing that I need that one, but yes.
Well, that was, you know, I was asked to do something about that by Pokey way back when I first
started. So it's like a year and a half ago, he sent me an email saying, boy, it'd be really
nice to have this. So I saved the email and decided this was a good way to work all of that in
and show people how it's done. You know, it's one of those things that a lot of people probably
have a use for and that's the main thing here. I can't document every single feature of Libra
Office or, you know, the series would run into the next century. But if it's something that I think
a lot of people would be interested in, I want to try and work it in. No, absolutely. So the
following day, we had a amusing by Klatu about the word hack. And I liked this show in general,
but I did have the, I think you've been a bit precious with the word hacker. I mean, what does it
matter? And if somebody thinks that my hacker, all the better, then send an initial or you found
a hack, then send an initial. Yes, I understand that you have a hack and it's a, that you didn't do
yourself with somebody else's hack, but it's still a hack. But again, I guess that was his point also.
Indeed. So love this one's first time, first time HPR host guides to EVA utilities are EVA from
Spacewalk. And this is exactly, this is, I am this person in the cinema.
And it's only actually, it was a, in 2001, they had a, they had a trick where, you know, he goes
from the pod into the, he throws himself into the airlock. And in the new version of the
battle started galactic and they did a very similar thing. And they were a lot worse off, although
it was about the same amount of time. And I will wonder if he's doing it another show, which of those
two scenes would have been more accurate. From what I've read, you know, you do have a minute or two
before real serious problems start to happen. Yeah, that's, that's what I thought a lot, but now you
blow on the show. He doesn't need to send it. Yes, he still needs to send it. He may not agree.
Good. Oh, yeah, there you go. There you go. Yeah, you can stay out for ages. Not a problem.
You know, have a smoke cigar. You'll be grand. You're the following day we had you with,
I don't know if it's the following day, I should put in one to choose your weapons to hear, but
anyways, you had privacy and security. And yeah, well, you know, the, we started off with
a lot of stuff about email encryption, but you know, there's always so much you can say about that.
So it seemed like it was time to move into some of the other areas. And yeah, I thought it was
assaulting, hashing, quite good. And why you should, you have the whole, if the whole
here's how it works, very, very clear. Nice. I liked it. Didn't have any comments, normally,
with your shows, I deliberately try and find something just to annoy you, but nothing, nothing
that annoys me in that way. Okay. Here's one that I was trying to organize for a long time
with Ingmar Steiner from the Mary TTS project for any of you who heard us, was
developer of the text-to-speech engine. And I really enjoyed doing this interview,
which essentially consisted of me just shutting off a lesson, somebody who's far more
learned than myself talk. And I loved this interview and I really hope you'll
have Ingmar back on, because we tend to think about, okay, this is very necessary for people
who have visual impairments, and it is. But I really think this is the way, at some point,
we're all going to be interacting with computers. And these people are creating the future for us.
Absolutely. Absolutely. And I just heard that a accessible computer, I'll try that again.
I just heard that the Accessible Computing Foundation have moved away from Mary TTS,
because it's for print was quite large, which I think we should have Jonathan Nidu on
to tell us about that. Yeah, he may well have his reasons, but yeah, I'd like to definitely
like to hear them, but regardless, I think it's an interesting system. And then we had the ZFS,
which most BST people rave and rant about. Yeah, I'd like to them. Yeah, it seems to do a very
good job, and although not for small systems, what I understand. Yeah, I'm not running BSD,
so it doesn't look like I'm going to have any chance to try it soon. Well, you can install
on Linux as old as there's a way to do that. Anyway, Clat2 introduced new web developers to Lamb,
kind of a nice little episode again, that's Clat2 through and do appreciate those.
We do indeed. I always love hearing from Clat2. I also subscribed to his new world order
podcast. Yes, who doesn't? Yeah, and I think you take stuff for granted that people would know
how to do this. So I think obviously he's had a reason where I can't imagine anyone paying
or paying somebody else or downloading a set up alarm stack, easy utility when it is actually
as easy as he makes it up. Indeed. Then we had another open source news break this time,
data driven journalism, open source password management and open electronics. Good stuff.
A lot of good stuff there. Very much. New host to be frank, which I love the name,
how the handle is absolutely brilliant, gets to speak to Matthew Garrus and nice piece of editing,
very professionally done, very impressed with this as the first time episode, as we said.
Yeah, and Matthew Garrus, one of those people that I want to hear from, I really like being able to
hear what he had to say. Absolutely. Got a chance to listen to one of his talks way back when he was
a lad. Another another person that is way above my head. So the following day, we had a new host
golfer. Is it golfer? Of course, golfer, yes. And this is his required how I got into Linux
episode from zero to one cool stuff. Yep. And we're always welcoming a new host. We love to hear
from these people. We have plenty of slots for anyone who wants to record a show. Oh, yes,
we do more about that and then the following day, descriptor statistics and how we can make
basic measurements about a population. And I was thinking about this. Yeah, I did a lot of this
stuff when I was back when I was a natural engineer. And I was taking it to myself. You know,
a lot, this is a prime example of an HPR episode where a lot of people are just going to go
follow the way. But there's going to be one person sometime, you know, the night before
a exam. And we'll download this episode and we'll get down on his or her knees and thank the gods
for the internet. Yeah, well, I must admit, it was this one and the one after it, where I talk
about inferential statistics. It may be a little indulgent on my part because I used to teach
statistics. I actually enjoy this kind of thing. And some people may remember episode I did some
months back about how to understand polls where I brought in the statistics behind public opinion
polling. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I love that episode. So feel free to indulge yourself as often as you
like. But I think the main thing I wanted to get across here is that for a lot of the stuff that you
that where you might want to use statistics, Libra Office Calc is all you need. You know, I remember
when when I first started teaching this stuff, I had to buy a statistical package and use that to
teach. And I wouldn't have to do that now. I could just take Libra Office Calc in there and
it's got everything I need. Yeah, things have come on. Things have come on a lot as I've lost my time
one moment. So I hope you're going to do more of these. You should definitely don't be anyone,
don't anyone be afraid about indulging their own passions here in the HPR because I guarantee you
people interested. And so keep these ones common, please. Oh, yeah. And there's more. I think I've
got about six more episodes in Calc that I have written. I just need to record. But I'm not sure
my voice would hold out very well right now. So maybe next weekend. Yeah, keep them common because
you're supplying the backbone of stuff that keeps the network open rather. Don't forget that. Yeah,
and then I'm already pulling together material to swing into impress, which is the slide deck
program. Okay, the following day we had how to VNC talk, plateau talks about how to get VNC open
running. And during this episode, plateau mentions that VNC is secure. It is not. It is not a secure
method to connect to other systems at all. A protocol itself is not secure and it is not
secure by virtue of the fact that it is. It only uses a username and not a password and
better yes, not a client shared keys like SSH does. So if you are doing connections on VNC,
you must and should run it over a SSH or a VPN connection. Yeah. And you know, to be the
take away there is just security is really hard. I don't think people always appreciate just,
you know, you look at stuff like we just had the whole shell shock thing of various vulnerabilities
and bash that have been there for 20 years, you know, because no one happened to think about it.
Yeah, exactly. And at times change, I don't think people expected it to be used as far as it has,
VNC, their excuse was that it was on the local network and they always said that you should
secure tunnel. Your secure sends it over secure tunnel. Now, there are some versions that do use
encryption 1010, but I always send it to your secure tunnel. I think that too was sending
it over secure tunnel. He was doing tunneling in via an SSH port and coming off the local host.
In which case the attack factor is very, very much minimized. So if you configure it that way,
then yes, it is secure. But otherwise, if you're just connecting to have a listening on the public
port and then connect via that, then it's susceptible to a brute force attack. And frankly,
you know, he's usually pretty smart about all this stuff. So it's quite possible that in the back
of his mind, he knew that's how he was doing it and he just didn't explicitly say that. Yeah.
Okay, but you warned, you warned. Migrating from Truple to Nikola.
Nikola. Nikola. This is cool. This is a nice, a nice short thing with the scripts available
publicly. Very, very cool. Yeah. Short sweet to the point, I think. Oh, absolutely.
That was the last one for this month, as it happened. So pretty cool all around. We
quite a bit of comments going on this one, this month. And it started with an episode, a comment
on an episode from last, from last December, actually, the 13th, the 13th of the 12th. And it was
related to how we use Linux and it was created and given comments about Kaldav for Android and
such. That was pretty cool. Then we had a comment on episode 1458, which was free culture and
open source animation by CT, which is also back in September 2014, the ninth, actually.
And Siphon, S-Y-N-F-I-N, I was glad to comment on that. I think. I think. Oh,
Lord. Thanks for being here. Oh, simply yes. Siphon, S-Y-N-F-I-N-F-I-N. And yeah.
Anyway, this is, this is why I also have to succeed. Anyway, that is an 2D animation program,
which is pretty cool. And Cloud2 set me a little tutorial that a friend of his did on one of the
magazines sent me a link to it. So if you happen to come across that, it's absolutely excellent.
then we had a comments to my episode or sorry not my episode but the many many many
too many data relationships by Mike Ray 1569 and we get into a discussion about how to deal
with tags and to be honest I'm not overly impressed with the answers really because
they're a very complicated stuff and I don't like I don't like complications
unfortunately and stuck in there I don't know if he got it there was a comment by Borgu
as well which I must say I did kind of agree with and I don't like to be negative about shows but
believe me this is bad I hear that he's like comment about that so if Mike wants to address that
he can always do that as well that was the whole topic mostly went over my head I'm not a DBA
yeah and I don't think I I will ever be um they might come I got a quick shout-outs
of a thank you for beginners guide to the night sky and I can't stress enough how
chuffed you feel as a as a podcaster when somebody just drops you an email even if it's a
one-liner or sends you a thing in Skype or or not Skype but Twitter or puts a comment on the
episode just a little bit of feedback somebody out there is listening one of the thousands of people
who download those show listen to the show I thought it was cool that makes it a little worthwhile
oh absolutely I've I've gotten some wonderful email responses they're actually it is it is the
currency of which podcasters survive it has to be said then we had a two small comments relating to
they down and out in the magic kingdom correct spelling of kiss me kiss me kiss me yep and we had
50 150 with a link to the haunted mansion for safe but it said facade I believe the sad I should know
that just give me one second so a comment on the XFS file system we had Jonathan talking about
why Daniel Robbins creator of Gen 2 recommends it so when you're reading that feedback on the ultimate
cooking device and was left by more this more dancing the best GPA I found a light a charcoal
and my charcoal and chimney has been to use either newspaper or paper towels yeah that's
I've used watered up newspaper myself I've used petrol yep and then comments from UNV about the
episode on Gordiola's episode on C++ programming and saying how useful some of the stuff was
on the wine and learning episode lots of comments UNV free like new and Andrew Conway all commented
relating to ways to introduce kids to linux and recommend UNV recommends do do linux which for some
reason the link need to fix the link on that there's an open spades alternative by free as in
Gadoo and gives you a link to that and Andrew Conway is just give some comments back on that
episode we had on tattoos episode about hacking we had me making the point that's here on hacker
public radio have we been exposed a little bit more than most to the general mass media's interpretation
of the name hacker so to me I'm more than happy that if somebody I know puts a paper clip with a
piece of soda tape on the wall and thinks it's useful and thinks they're a hacker that to me is
all the better because it reinforces more the the other end of the scale as opposed to the evil bad
nasty people and they also have Michael coming in with a comment sorry I got you off go ahead
I yeah I to be a hacker is just someone who wants to get the job done and will use whatever is
handy to get it done absolutely yeah and yep absolutely but my issue is for all the people's
interpretation of that is is is it better that people think that they are a hacker is a
better that the public thinks a hacker is somebody who's evil and will essentially is the cracker
aspect or do they think it's some lame cheap way to do something you know two ends of the extreme
two ends of the scale and I think we're so far the side the route so far down the end of the
scale to the cracker end that it's no harm to bring it a little bit closer and make more accessible
to people then we had two comments on your episode one was by gig sphere and it's helped his
understanding particularly talking about salted hashes and hashing algorithms can't say more
than not really the whole point of the episode I think that's what I was trying to do and we had
some comments on the Ingmer Steiner interview which lots of people lend lend me dear did you
uh did you listen to that episode the whole way through to the other voices at the end I did
indeed and uh sorry go on I some of them sounded a little bit better than the voice that is doing
the uh automated summaries on hpr I wondered if you were thinking about using some of that well
funny you should mention that yes just as soon as a Java program work and come out of the woodwork
and uh download the simple application that Ingmer was talking about and uh make it so that I can
use the same functionality as e-speak but with uh using mary tts please somebody get in touch with me
I'm sure if a Java programmer could do this do it in 20 minutes then we can put that up on the
on their website fixes on their wiki and then have something like that available for people
to download and ideally if we get it into um the repels as well so that it's it's a wrapper for
mary tts it would install and you could go I don't know uh mary speak blah echo something into mary
speak and then it comes out on a wildfire like yeah just and then dash v like uh the e-speak
languages that you can pick the voice and uh but you don't have to make it your own tom's your first
yep so volunteers please step forward this will of course uh relieve you of your one show
or contribution a year especially after you record a show telling us how you do
but lots of people express an interest into that and uh yeah keep it coming how to install the lamp
we had um tts you see tts how would you read that tts you see i think i do you mentioned you'd like
to have more stuff on virtual machines testing software and server applications by the point
plateau is uh going to um record something about that which is actually brilliant really so uh keep
a bugging host for oh that was a brilliant episode but uh did you think of this so that way i
will get more shows and then when i get new shows and you get more shows and and then we had
Christopher and Hobbs giving a high five to um gofer on his episode so that was the comments for
this month good month for comments yeah not bad at all not bad at all they're all available if you
press the letter p on the main website so speaking of other things we had um on the news
i had a fantastic idea of doing live stream from upcoming events based on uh did i talk about
this last month based on uh assign the on air sound type thing i do i don't remember that
so uh yeah basically a wine bottle um holder with an on air sound just put the light inside it
and then start recording and then i was thinking yeah perhaps we can uh we can stream and stuff
from from events so i have uh not had a lot of time to do a lot of stuff this month but the
discussion on that was interesting and continue then how we would do it and if people were going to
or offer it then um we had Dave Morris with the sad news that they're working going to be able to
have another camp at table and then uh Rebecca and Philip uh coronal normal you burrow and Philip
coronal come forward and rally the troops and as we speak in the bowels of oxford in the UK
there is a h gr table currently manned by four strapping young men and the picture of those will
be in the show no good i'll look forward to hearing your shows yeah so do i they've got uh
Philip um while we talk about the next month but he already has done some excellent interviews
at the link and look and uh he's got a new zoom recorder so i don't think anyone will save
um so i put out the call for fostm 2015 if people were going to go what did they be interested in
doing a table and the thing about fostm is that you really do need somebody there they say two
people minimum on the table 24 seven are you know for the entire show and really you do need that
because there's so many people going through even when it's quiet and in other events there are
so many people there that they can't get into the talks so then they go around to the to the vendor
boot or to the boots um so you really need people to be around at all times so uh nobody has
basically very few people events that call not enough to be able to support that so what i'm
thinking of doing now is uh contacting other podcasters uh not only in europe but uh mainly around
europe but around the world because i was thinking then of um doing a uh fost podcasting booth so
just to promote other shows and uh all the basically shows on the links linked up net and the other
shows that um are in davinoise and little two for uh checking podcasts and it would be great then
if we could have some of other shows listeners uh or um hosts available for particular periods of
time at the table then it wouldn't just be a hbr table would be a podcasting in general and
we could uh maybe make that work what do you think of that as an idea i like it thinking outside the
box a little bit here there you go then we had a uh alpha geeks podcast and you podcast that uh i
that was mentioned in episode 1591 and some questions uh mobile recording devices and uh people
have zoom or recommend in zooms um he dav morris has a son has a task come dr zero seven mark two
she'll probably put a few of these up on the website actually yeah i it's always good to have
that information available and of course the old standby my i i did one with a sands a clip that uh
i just attached to my car you would be amazed at how many of the interviews that i've done
that have ended up coming from a sands a clip um which was my comment on on this thing is just
record with whatever you have no uh any recording is better than no recording if you've got a
a camera with you record a video and we can extract the audio if you've got a phone on you
just uh record on the phone if you don't have that then uh dial the hbr number and press record
yes it's going to cost you uh both uh um yeah um go get on to mumble if you've got an internet
connection uh sons a clip basically everything and anything it's like the digital clock virtually everything
that has um speaker and a microphone and this can now record audio so gasses uh don't be too worried
about if you've got a brilliant recorder use it you don't use what you have yep so then i had the
very depressing use that's it's been 25 days since anyone uploaded a show and uh thankfully
we're out of the out of the black for next week which is you know scary and the discussion was more
centering on and uh it was more centering on how do we solve this you know chart tooth um together
we have no shows we make call for shows people send in shows there's a big bunch then people
relax a lot and then we don't have any shows coming in again and then we put a call out for shows
so how you do it is you record shows in a bunch and then you space them out over time which i
think is a brilliant idea um and i'd like people to start doing that more than than dumping shows
i'd like to have two weeks in the queue which we don't have right now both um there are lots of
guys going to aug camp so i'm i'm not that concerned about if we'll be able to fill up uh the week
that you hear this has just been filled by mi bill and in cease is secus and then after that we
you can expect some aug camp episodes but i'd like people to just you know put it in your calendar
put a recurring appointment if you if you think you can do one show a year then put a recurring
appointment then do you know one show a year in your birthday or something and if you can if you
have a new year's resolution you want to do more than that then put in a recurring appointment in
your calendar and uh you don't have to stick to it obviously but uh be nice to get them in you can
always you know sit down record um a wedgie shows like in in one go and then space them out over time
it's uh you know we like to space them out over a two week period because if you you know you could
theoretically put all your shows out on one one's half to the other because scheduling is now done by
the people who upload the shows you go to the calendar page you pick the date you want and you
you put them in um but uh uh hookah you just uh record your shows and you pick the dates that you want
yeah and the way this uh the way that I had done this I it started with the Libra office series and
um I thought well I could crank out one of those about every two weeks uh and I've pretty much stuck
to that except when something comes along like I know in January there's going to be this
gap because the new years shows I just got to run for like two weeks by themselves uh and it was
just fine I have no problem with that um and then the security and privacy thing um which I know
that one was started by you Ken because we were doing the community news and you said yeah I
really need someone to tackle this and I was like well I guess if no one else gets to it I will
absolutely yeah uh and no one else got to it so I did and what I did is I made a commitment that
I would get out a show once a month uh so to me the the thing that that I I think helps is to make
a commitment and you know do it on whatever schedule works for you um so if this is worked
reasonably well for me now I'm doing a lot more shows than most people uh but it's stuff that I'm
really interested in doing so that's not really a problem uh if if you can only do like you say one
show a year or once a quarter or whatever it is make the commitment and and just start doing it um
and I think very often a good way to do it is to you know pick a big topic that you really like
and then just break it down into small pieces absolutely um and that's that's very much what I've
done you know Libra office is a huge thing but I just take a little piece of it every two weeks
and say all right I'm going to spend 15 minutes looking at this little piece um and and I think I
probably 15 or 20 minutes on average for those shows the thing to remember though uh well one
point about that is you're making the commitment to yourself I don't need to know about your plans
to make shows uh and the reason I don't need to know is I hear a lot of I get a lot of uh things
in from people going I'm going to record the show I'll have it to you in a week and then in a
week or two somebody else you know the river email me going oh I got delayed and so the show's not
coming to come in you know I have this saying a show isn't a show until it's a show and it's a show
when it gets uploaded to the FTP server I life gets in your way sometimes I have a I have a whole
goal shows that are ready to be edited they're not edited yet when I get time will be edited uh
when we need them they'll be they'll be there so make the commitment to yourself and just send them in
but uh yep that's pretty much it and if you don't like hearing a hookah or anyone else on the
network the absolute best way guarantee to get them off the network is to record more shows and
get your friends to record more shows and then there'll be no snots uh no slots available for a hookah
or on the other side um that that's right I can't program anything unless there's blank slots there
there you go and I think a lot of the stuff with HPR is um you ask the question and everybody takes
one step back so you end up doing it that's pretty much how I how I ended up um doing the
community news and the the administration and that sort of stuff so there you go it in it
it's rocket science now it isn't and the thing that uh if it's holding anyone back you might
think well I'm interested in this but who else is and uh you know on paper why would anyone want
a series on Libra office but I can tell you I've gotten great feedback from it um there are a lot
of people and I mean what's our average download now can three thousand to show something like that
um and you know and I keep getting comments from people um and you know sometimes I mean I got
an email from Allison Chacon who I respect immensely thanking me for one of my shows and it's like
oh well that's cool because you know a couple of months ago in Linux format I read this long interview
with her so oh that's cool yeah I mean she's really big into the automotive uh software and stuff
like that um and you know I sort of knew about her and it was like oh she liked one of my shows
um and and I get lots of uh comments from people um you know sometimes it's emails sometimes it's
comments on the hpr site sometimes it's on google plus because that's where I tend to hang out
um so I know there's people out there doing it that are you know listening to these shows and enjoying it
um so you know even if if you don't think there's a huge audience you might be surprised
uh I can guarantee you actually will be so okay back to the um because if you ask me it
is no point asking me if somebody's gonna be interested in because I am interested in in these
shows there hasn't been literally there has not been a show on hpr that I have not listened to
and tend to and that I've not enjoyed on some level um some of them especially when people are
trying to uh to stretch the definition of what's interest to hackers that gets me definitely interested
so um just a quick note here from Patrick Daley the next uh which is Pokey to you and the next hpr
audiobook club we recorded on the 14th of October at seven pm centrally us time seven pm
central us time and the book is the call of some word that I can pronounce by pH Lovecraft
the call of Holano pistis into the chat for you ok maybe you can read it for me i would call it
katulu uh it's hp lovecraft it's a real classic in the horror genre i will love reading this
well okay but it really you know uh lovecraft um have you read this one um i've read some of
his i i i don't know if i've read all of that but um you know this the the award that is given to
fantasy writers um is called the Lovecraft award so okay fair enough yeah probably
tell just something right there yeah i'm not a big fan of the whole horror genre i have to i have to
admit i get too drawn in and then yes i'm a big scaredy cat what can i say um 5150 wrote in to say
they intro and outro clips what is the word on the intro enough for clips and i like a smart
gift that i am replied that everything is fine for me when an actual fact i think was in my bill
took the liberty of pointing out so that no things were not right since the server move
file based browsing so you know going to a directory that doesn't have an indexed us whatever
it requires you can't just browse up and down the directory and i was using that so i fixed that
on my humble apologies goes to 5150 for um my complacent attitude towards his book reports
you mean we weren't supposed to be browsing through all the files well i thought it was a useful
feature my point of view with uh with hbr is there's nothing on the website that is that isn't
public you know everything well i mean you probably don't want uh yeah the the web server
that's the web server you don't want to use for spam or whatever but uh so uh it was fine but
Josh is uh with an honest host calm has different views on the world and i'm very glad to have them
because i feel a lot safer as well so uh that was a pretty cool move
handy hello yeah you're still there okay um but there has been a few questions about the new
theme music and we have updated the theme and they just to give you a quick summary again
the intro and outro are now two separate files they don't contain any um mentions from anyone so
if you have the intro and outro now the idea is that if there's a change of sponsor or the one
to change the sponsor message for any reason that we don't need to redistribute that to all the host
you can continue to use the same one it's unlikely that we'll add any new text and if we do it's
not the end of the world we just wait for them to close through the system basically it's me being
lazy i don't want to have to read download all the shows edit the edit everything and re-upload them
again so that's pretty much the the purpose for having that they so the the shows are now
met out of six different parts five five required the first one is thanking the hosting provider
which will be mentioned to anonymoushost.com for those that are on the hgur website or archive.org
for those that are going over there you don't need to add those that will be added automatically
the show summary is taken from say.php on the hgur website and it is uh you know it's that speaking
voice that says it is blah blah blah today show is entitled blah blah blah and the duration is
um have you have you been enjoying that or not has it has it been useful to you?
you know it doesn't do anything for me particularly but you know i'm not opposed to it
i i must say i get up in the morning and i'm walking down at six a.m. down to the train station
it's good to know what day it is yeah okay so that's a different set of problems again
there you go there you go and then we have they so that will be added mostly automatically by they
by the by the server you can choose to edit if you wish but you have to kind of stick to the template
then we have the hbur intro music which you can download if you choose not to put that in
that's fine if you choose to put it in that's also find the show this is the most important thing
this is the one that you need to do long as you like only topic of this is you like the audio
quality doesn't have to be brilliant but it does have to be audible and of interest hackers and not
spam basically then the outro music can be downloaded if you have your own outro music you can do it
and the text must be according to what's been agreed and that's on the it's on the back
that's written there as well and then we have the epilogue for people whose names begin with
pokey so the last few that i recorded and uploaded i just uploaded the show itself i didn't
tack anything on to it because it sort of it sounded like well we're still changing things
and it was like fine put anything on it you want yeah that's the mix is a lot easier for me but
what i'll probably will do is try to get sucks to do a little bit of fade over so that you know
the intro is fading down and the show itself is starting up because a lot of people like that so
it's a little bit subtler so i'll try and work on that but it is my preference
that people just upload the shows because it makes it a lot cleaner or around yeah
well we're at 58 minutes i don't know what it's going to be when i try to say it silence but
i don't have anything much else to say except i'm getting lots of tweets from people who are
a company hit you all i hit you all well that's not very nice well in a sort of very friendly sort of
way obviously so i'm really annoyed i couldn't get over to that i'm going to add a little announcement
here because i've got this platform and why not and that is the the the con that i'm involved with
now panguacan our call for talks is now open so if you go to panguacan.org you can submit something
you know you kind of have to be in the general area of the midwestern united states for this to
make sense but just trying to get the word out to people that we're looking for it and i
i handle all of the technology track so if you if you send me anything halfway decent looking
as a proposal there's a very good chance i'm going to accept it do you want to do a separate interview
on that yeah we can do that or i can just record something how do you want to do it
to be better it's getting a bit late here tonight need to spend some quality time with my wife
okay fine i'll record something and get that up to you probably in the next couple of days
will we be having will we hpr be having a table presence at that convention or do you do tables
i cannot staff the table because i'm running this technology track i don't know who from the hpr
community is thinking of coming to this so at the moment i'm not aware of anything is are there
tables yeah there are tables and would hpr fit into your type of tables it would be slightly different
i don't mind being slightly different the thing about panguacan that you want to bear in mind is
it's both science fiction and technology so people who are interested so you might be right next to
you know someone doing geek jewelry or you know someone selling books or whatever sounds like my
credit my kind of crowd yes very much anybody going give us a shout please and we'll see that
the booth kiss gets to you and that you have everything that you need to make it a fantastic event
yeah and i'll get that show out to you in the next few days okay cool well you know what to do
just upload it to the thingy and oh i do indeed so no so there then i don't need to thank you which
is always always always good thing anyway fast join us now and share the soccer folks you'll be free
hackers you'll be free by the way did you notice that one of those voices was an rms voice
no i didn't they have deliberately they made a rms voice it doesn't sound it doesn't sound
how bad actually yeah you're referring to the one that was pasted in on all of the new year shows
yeah that's the one if you by the way if people have preferences for one of those voices do drop
me a line about it and don't forget i am looking for a java somebody who has done any java at all
i don't think it's very difficult for money says so if somebody has done any java at all could
you give us a shout and see how we can make that merry same thing okay tune in tomorrow for another
exciting episode all hacker public radio you've been listening to hacker public radio at
hackerpublicradio.org we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday
Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows was contributed by an hbr listener like
yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is hacker public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonomicant computer club and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have
comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record
a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise status today's show is released on the creative
commons attribution share a light 3.0 license
