Episode: 1872
Title: HPR1872: Sim City BuildIt September 2015
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1872/hpr1872.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 10:33:31

---

This is HPR Episode 1872 entitled SimCityBuilded September 2015.
It is hosted by Swift 110 and is about 24 minutes long.
The summary is, I talk about one of my favorite games SimCityBuilded.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15 that's HPR15.
Get your web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello everybody. This is Swift 110. I thought I'd do this recording about SimCityBuilded.
Right now I'm playing this game with my iPad 3.
Let me tell you exactly what's going on right now.
First off my phone being stupid but I'm going to ignore that for the time being.
My city right now has approximately, has almost 730 Sims in it.
Well 730,000 Sims.
I've been at this game since at least either November or December of last year.
And while I realized that other players of the game have a way larger population than I do,
they also made different decisions than I did.
They also had different situations they came up.
For instance, I don't like Facebook and I don't use it.
So I didn't have any friends on Facebook connected to my game.
So it's just been me. My only friend right now is Daniel.
And if you play the game, you know who I'm talking about.
But the situation right now with regards to the cargo ship dock,
I am in need of three specialists and I need two more chairs to keep that going.
Now, once I have those, of course, I get the SIM coins that they're worth.
And I'm able to get a golden key.
This golden key will allow me to purchase buildings that will in turn boost my population.
Now, I have almost 20 golden keys.
And right now I have my eyes under specializations.
I have my eyes on a heliport.
The reason I have my eyes on a heliport is because then I can add a population of approximately 20,000 once I put it in place.
So definitely, definitely worth my while to obtain.
In fact, I'm looking here.
I can get at least 24,000.
I'll put it wherever I can to get the biggest benefit from my population.
So I want that to continue to grow and grow.
So I'm looking forward to obtaining that heliport.
But I need the items that I mentioned before in order to do that.
Let me go ahead.
Now, along with that, because I have an airport, which I only got a few weeks ago,
the cargo airport, I need two spatulas.
So altogether, I need like five spatulas to be made.
It's going to take a while.
I have nine hours to get the two spatulas needed to finish the cargo.
And I get a waving kitty cat.
It's super fun.
But think about it is, that'll be completed.
That's already in the making.
Let me go back to the cargo ship dock.
Yeah, I do until I need five of those done.
Now, let me show you, or not show you, but you didn't idea how much time it takes.
40 minutes to do each of those spatulas.
Actually, it's called cooking utensils, not a spatula.
It just looks like a spatula.
They are obtained at the hardware store.
So I got enough raw materials to take care of those two.
Now, meanwhile, I'm trying to build more.
I'm trying to upgrade the buildings I have currently.
And one of the buildings that, one of the items that I need
to upgrade a building.
Well, I need a sofa to be finished.
That's already in the making.
I really worried about that in particular.
And I could also really use for one of my Tokyo buildings.
I need some seats, or one seat, actually.
That'll be done in a few minutes.
That'll free up quite a few.
Then I can really start making more objects and fulfilling goals.
So let's see how long I've actually been talking.
Oh, it's been roughly five minutes.
Pretty interesting.
I've worn about this game, SimCity Build It.
I really like it.
I used to have it on my iPhone 4S, which was a gift.
But I managed to lose that iPhone 4S in theater.
Theater had reclining seats.
Like a dummy, I managed to leave it there.
It's really irritating because I had another copy of this game on there.
I was hoping some way linked to cities so that the one on the phone
would be a theater city.
But that just didn't work out because I lost a phone.
Then I decided to use a program called Blue Stacks
where my Windows partition on an older laptop.
And I'll be talking about that in more detail later on.
But that...
Interesting.
I'll tell that story later.
So, meanwhile, with my city, I'm doing reasonably well.
I have a lot of raw materials made that need to be converted
from basic materials into more valuable items.
And once I do that, I'll be able to upgrade
a number of buildings, actually.
I'll likely do a blog version of this.
And there were others that posts that I've meant to make
on my WordPress account, which is going to be in the show notes.
So, if you take a look at that and check out my blog,
I have hundreds of posts on there.
So, whatever it is you're into,
you're going to find something that you like.
There's my blog.
Check out my blog.
You'll find something you like there.
Anthony Venable 110 at WordPress.
Just find me there.
And I'll be, as mentioned, in the address
will be in the show notes.
You know what?
I'll go ahead and give it to your HTTP,
colon slash slash, Anthony Venable.
That's V-E-N-A-B-L-E-1-1-Z-R-O
at WordPress.com
or dot WordPress.com.
Sorry about that.
It's initial notes no matter what.
I stress that pretty strongly now.
But I really like the game.
It works out really well.
It would be nice to have another device to play it on.
I could play it on my phone,
but my phone doesn't have nearly enough.
I'm space on it right now to make that a good idea.
So, that's why I haven't done that.
I recently started building in Tokyo style.
Not Gangnam style, but Tokyo style.
And I couldn't help it.
Goodness gracious.
I know my sense of humor is interesting.
But here's the thing about that.
It allows me to have about 20% more sims in each building
than the normal.
I'm going to just take care of that.
And so, it's worthwhile investment.
Now, one of the things that I'm especially proud of in my city.
I have a university.
I put it in a southeastern quadrant of my city.
So, I guess you'll call it southeastern university.
But here's the thing about that.
Unlike DC.
My southeastern quadrant is quite nice.
Unfortunately, like DC.
Well, actually, it's not the worst part of town.
It's not the lowest income part of town.
Unlike DC, I'm actually working on my city being...
Yeah, let me not get into that.
But my city is interesting.
I have a number of items I can get from Daniel City.
I have like six items waiting for me.
So, I'm trying to go ahead and get this cleared up first.
And then I have sufficient space to accommodate six.
And then I'll be on my merry way.
Good. We're almost 10 minutes.
I'm going to keep you admiring on.
Oh, I was mentioning about the university.
Yes.
That university along contributes 37,845 to my city.
A very nice addition.
My goal is to have as many buildings around it as possible
to build that up even higher.
And then I want high items kind of like on a periphery of the houses there.
The apartment buildings rather.
It has a pretty large area of coverage.
And pretty much in that area of coverage.
I want to eliminate the factories that are in the south-eastern quadrant of the city.
I want to kind of put them ultimately.
What I want to do is I want to upgrade all the way with regards to factories.
What do I really want to do?
I want to upgrade them all to nanotech.
Right now, number of them are mass production factories.
So, they have a dirty radius of roughly 8 by 8.
Even if I upgraded them to high-tech factories,
which I have, how many high-tech factories do I actually crash bandicoot?
Yeah, I have roughly two high-tech factories.
And that's better.
High-tech factory.
I can do five separate items.
So, nice efficiency there.
And a dirty radius of six by six blocks.
Mass production is four production buildings, four production items.
And a dirty radius of 8 by 8.
So, I want to eliminate all the mass production.
And I don't want to waste my time on high-tech factory.
I want to skip to nanotech.
Problem is the cost.
The mass production factories were 7,000.
Sim points a piece.
Nanotech is 50,000.
I have nearly 760,000 sim points, simoleons.
What's that called?
Yeah, simoleons.
I have 73 in sim cache.
That's going to be dramatically higher soon.
So, I'm going to wait a little bit on conversion.
But as I convert the factories, what happens is that I have more land as unpolluted
that I can use for homes and whatnot.
So, I want to really focus on that, making this land value go up higher.
Speaking of land value, let's get an idea of the city.
Kind of alluded to earlier.
Pretty much everywhere in my city is high value with regards to land.
The more high-value land that you have,
the actual more in taxes you're able to collect from the sims,
because they're happy.
And we have the wealth forecast with regards luxurious homes,
which I wanted many of those possible.
Very large part of my city is luxurious homes.
So, it's really nice.
There's no squalor.
Nothing bad there.
Ultimately, around the university, I want all Tokyo-style houses.
So, when they're all up to their best potential,
my word that'll boost it up.
Currently, my highest worth homes.
Oh, dear John, like 5,691.
Good grief.
I'm trying to see if I can actually beat that.
Wow, 5,967 is the highest population of a building.
I'm pretty sure I have 6,000 somewhere.
Wow, kind of taking a look here.
Ooh, hot dog.
6,048.
Can I beat that?
I wish it was a way to just pull it up.
Wow, 6,048 is crazy.
That's for one apartment building.
My word, I would love to have more of them with 6,000.
I mean, if I could get more 5, that would be great.
You get a higher, oh, 6,150.
Good, good, good.
You get a higher population by having amenities in good locations.
So you really get rewarded for those buildings.
It makes it worth, wow, sometimes you're concerned
because you're like, well, if I put this here,
it'll take up space that I could.
Good grief.
6,242 is the highest.
I think I can get up to 6,004.
That's my estimate.
I have no earthly idea.
But you can see I'm pretty into the game.
Glad I came across it because it's really a lot of fun.
I don't have to stay on it all the time.
Kind of does what it does.
I can check in periodically.
Nobody's going to die.
My population's never going to go out.
It just won't grow.
And I'll miss opportunities to develop it further.
Let's see, have I killed enough time?
Ah, there it is.
I have my seed that I just harvested.
Well, not harvested, but I just collected.
Now I'm in a position to actually upgrade a building.
It's actually a Tokyo building.
So this will be a nice addition.
Array for me.
Got more money in the coffers,
and I'm adding my population.
Right now,
that university is contributing 37,783 Sims.
We'll see how it goes up to when
that new Tokyo building is upgraded.
It won't be much, by the way,
but it will be more than what it has been.
So 37,875.
Not a huge increase,
but certainly,
yeah, a nice increase.
Funny thing is, if I was to relocate it,
just a little tiny bit,
I could probably get 40,
but I kind of want to leave it there.
My strategy is surrounded by buildings.
And every now and again,
I'm going to actually have other buildings that are useful.
You probably hit a crickets in the back room.
The crickets are actually in my yard.
Go figure.
So curious.
I know one time I did this random post
once ago,
before the summer even started in,
it was relatively hot outside,
and you was able to pick up how the kids are playing outside
during recess because it was around that time.
It's a really, really nice day,
and I really, really liked doing that post.
I probably tell,
I enjoy posting on HPR.
It's just awesome.
You should try it sometime.
You'll be able to check that out.
So now,
let's go to another part of the city.
We're not really part of the city.
This is called City Storage.
I'm looking at it right now.
And I have 206 items
out of a possible 220 spaces
that are available.
So I have enough
to now
not really have to worry about
having too many
when I have the internet again.
Then I'll be in a position to
do more with
the features that are only available online.
I'll talk more about that another time.
Right now, about 19 minutes, very good.
I'll go on to like 20 maybe.
And then call it quits for the night.
But I'll definitely be doing more post
regarding
the same city build it
along with a number of other
subjects,
whatever catches my
whatever ideas I may get.
Just kind of go with it.
I really like doing this.
It's something I've actually
wanted to do for years just
didn't have the right
means to do it.
Of course, hacker
public radio already existed.
Just I didn't know about it.
So I didn't know about it.
Didn't exist to me.
But let's see.
What I need is chemicals
right now.
Thankfully not for my hair.
I'm
goodness gracious.
I'm gonna go ahead and just
make some.
Thought I had some available.
Let me set
the tune.
Maybe I'll make some chairs.
Let's see if that's going to be possible.
It's amazing like I'm thinking of multiple
things that need to be done in a city
at one time.
And it's pretty
interesting at this point.
Okay, so I need more chemicals.
I wait for that before I produce
more cooking utensils.
I need five of those all together.
I had almost two hours in that sofa.
With regards to the chair.
The chair is still the chair.
Hot dog.
Alright, so let me go up here.
And let me produce some more wood.
Once I do that, I'll be able to actually
build another.
I don't need one thing of wood.
And then I continue building chairs.
Ooh.
That'll be a few minutes.
Oh, actually I do have it.
Father.
Yeah, no, I'm sounding like we need to
pull talking on some.
Oh, bother.
Oh, bother.
I didn't do it right enough.
My voices got too much bass in it to do that.
Okay, so I managed to have wood already
made already.
What happens in a game is that you start
off by building basic things like wood,
metal, and chemical.
And then you combine those things together.
I'm just like a recipe.
And then you make things that are more valuable
with them, like shoes and hats.
And maybe lumber.
I'll go to another.
I'll do that another time really.
What I want to do right now actually is.
Actually, let me look at the city a little more
and see what else I need.
Decide what's going to be the most productive.
I could use another watermelon and two things wood.
Watermelon.
Two things wood.
I want to close out.
My main thing is closing out the cargo ship dock.
So I need two chairs to be completed.
Three cooking utensils to finish off the cargo ship dock.
I said earlier, there's a total of five cooking utensils to be made.
So that'll work out just fine.
All right.
Well, thank you for listening.
I'll be doing another part where I talk about some city build it.
If you haven't already downloaded it onto your iOS
or you're an Android device, then follow me to do so.
Check it out.
And I'll be talking to you guys later.
Have a great night.
You've been listening to heckaPublicRadio as heckaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HeckaPublicRadio was founded by the digital dock pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLight, 3.0 license.
