Episode: 1261
Title: HPR1261: HPR Community News for May 2013
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1261/hpr1261.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 22:36:00

---

Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and this is Hack and Public Radio Community News
for May 2013.
I'm here all by myself today, so we will attempt to make it as short as possible so you're
not having to suffer my droning.
If you normally skip over these shows, can I point out that we have changed the FTP
server password?
So if you want to know what that is, drop in an email, drop also an email at adminattackupublicradio.org
and we will see that password get you, it's a bit long to read out here.
Okay, first of all, as we always do, I'd like to welcome the new host, Deb Nielsen,
Beza and Toby, me and all three new hosts joined the network this month, so thank you
very much for coming on board and helping to continue this community project that we have
going on here.
Last month, we stopped at 12.35, talk server point to me by Sigflop and the show immediately
after that was lament for HCTPD, which was a deep geek show and I felt a lot of sympathy
for deep geek during this show.
Speaking of genuine sympathy was for the following day, Cory Doctor distributed to Aaron Schwartz,
which was our memorial here on HCTPD.
The following day, we had a what has now become a central clean stage, where I think the
word process are overraces and the importance of structuring your documents and what
is actually necessary for a document.
Then the next day, we had the HPR Saturday sessions, Nidu Media leading the team with a discussion
on what is hacking.
Very interesting topic.
My own response to that would be from the point of view of hacker public radio, UR hacker
if you're listening, well done, send me a show.
Then we had Charles and NJ with his continuing efforts to make my brain melt out my ears
with the Doomsday rule, which is an excellent series, which I, if you don't follow the show
notes, just by the way, everything is in the show notes and for these his episodes,
I do need to follow along just to make sure that everything is been cemented into my brain
small as it is.
Then we had the community news show and the following that we had what's wrong with free
anyway, which was a hookah talking about that it's free of charge, it should be able
to pay for it and that seems fair enough to me.
We had Akon DK, a hookah on DK with his Wargames 30 year memorial, which was excellent.
That is a very good movie actually, even though it's still a very very valid movie.
And he also had the sounds of a modem in there from pre-sound.org, which is a great place
to get sound effects for any event.
Lennox in the shell was AB, Apache Benchmark by Dan the Mound Washco, utility I was not
aware of.
I don't think I will have need for it in my immediate future, but I am putting it into
my special 5150 folder for things that I know I will need at some point in the future.
And Dan was on the next day, assisting DeepGeek with talking to me news.
And the day after that, well actually the Monday after that was David Whitman's live report
from Lennox Fest, Northwest did an excellent job there bringing us the atmosphere of that
festival and again makes me lament the cost of transatlantic air tickets.
Well, then we had John Culp with recording terrestrial radio with bash scripts and cron
jobs, which yes, was something that I might actually even consider doing myself if there
has been a few recommendations in the comments about what ways to enhance certain various
different utilities for dumping streams.
My personal favourite is just emplair and my actually my regular everyday music player
is emplair.
So yeah, that can also dump stuff.
Frank Bell achieves enlightenment adventures with E17 part one and goes into E17 and how
enlightenment has basically got this far and yeah, basically walking through this experience
is a nice one.
Then we had software paintings who's behind the curtain, Deb Nielsen.
And this was a unrequest, it comes in from the Lennox Fest, Northwest, so it's kind
of a priority also that is a new host.
And with her permission, it was being recorded for Hacker Public Radio as well.
The interview with YC Cracker from our very good friend Poké, this was a brilliant one
and for those of you who didn't look at the amount of time left on Poké, he is notorious
for adding content after the intro, meaning I never know if the, sorry, after the outro,
meaning I never know if the outro is in there or not.
So this was an artist that I was not familiar with and I had a listen to some of his stuff
afterwards.
But again, that is Isabel's, the whole point of interviews exposing you to other types
of music.
Speaking of other types of music shoutouts to John the Nice Guy at cchits.net for his
continued efforts over there.
Then we had to talk to him in news with Dickic and that was bumped up to a Monday because
of some of those production delays, but also to do with the priority scheduling of Lennox
Fest, Northwest, on the Tuesday we had the long road to Lennox by Bezra, which I listened
to walking around the Isles of Aikia, which I had to go through three times in that week.
And it was a very, very, very nice overview of the introduction to his, his Lennox, if
you haven't pulled it down, have a listen to this, very nostalgic and these how I got
into Lennox ones are becoming more and more detailed and expansive and I'm loving it.
So if you've got your story and you haven't shared it with us, please do so.
Yes, Lennox in the Shell, this is another one I needed to go over to Lennox in the
Shell's website because you need to follow along with the VM stat about Lennox virtual
memory and files in the proc and where you can get the information for there.
As a reminder, always Lennox in the Shell videos as well as the Exxon podcast, there are
videos and write-ups to go along with.
So regardless of what type of learner you are, you will always find some way to absorb
the information from Dan.
Speaking of returning host, we had JWP with Exx to go remote Lennox server client, which
I was not aware of either.
And it's a way to remote client into another server, I like JWP shells, the short suite
and to the point.
And the following day, we had a Garjola with a life in a software project, which was
an interesting blog post written by a friend of his about his history and this one you
will need to listen to twice.
I'll send a more about that.
Tokki to me, newscast was written by Bobo Vex and the following day was getting things
done by Nightwise, who has of course shown Nightwise and this was, excuse me, this was
HVR only content, so doing still news to use a Mac and I nearly was shocked and stunned
to find out that the answer was, well you're going to have to listen to the show yourself.
Then we had Tokki with how to build a desktop computer, I was listening to this one on
the way home from the Zoom pool.
One thing that I think that he didn't mention was a great show, by the way, love it for
a show, well done, was power consumption.
That is a big one for me, how much power, what's the running cost and that sort of thing.
So yeah, it's a great show if you haven't checked it out already.
And then we had Sinai Cupcake and our good friend, Mr. Tla2, discussing the Scratch program
and language and she is a school teacher and uses Scratch as a way to educate the children
in the ways of the programmer.
And finally we had a bumped into interview by Nido who I think just actually all forgot
to submit the show, the recording was already done and I forgot to submit the show or perhaps
he didn't, I didn't get it, but it's about the home festival in Senegalans, which is
observed how can make OHM 2013 a five day outdoor international Cupcake festival for
rankers and makers who within inquisitive mind on the 3rd 1st of July, 3,000 of those
minds will depend upon the unassuming patch of land at the Haste Merum Brach festival
grounds, 30 km north of Amsterdam, which is approximately 40 km from where I am.
However, the last time I went camping, I had a back hernia.
So I need to think long and hard about that one, however, the thought of having a festival
of such interest down the road is appealing to me.
Well that is pretty much it for the review of the shows for this month, so let's have
a wee little look at the comments in the comment log for the last month, something that
we haven't done in a while.
We had a low bat with a comment on HPR episode 1233, playing Ingress, supportive commenter
Epicanus was giving some feedback on a lament for HGTPD with the point that he's slightly
disappointed that the show could go longer.
Dodo Domi was left a comment on episode 1239 about what is hacking, doing is the essential
part of the definition.
So he is commenting as I just agree with the gentleman who kept saying that the search
for knowledge is all that is needed, Hacker needs to apply the knowledge.
It's kind of like a VIE max debate to me, it is an interesting debate, but at the end
of the day there will never be any resolution, I guess.
Hevelton Helvitton posted a comment on community news for April 2013 saying, oh no, I don't
want to encroach anyone's style, thanks for the nice comments while you're very welcome.
And Epicanus again left an episode on what is hacking, I don't think curiosity, I agree
with Dodo Domi, I think curiosity is an necessary component for good hack, or rather I think
someone could use a good hacker without a decent, could become a good hacker without a decent
amount of curiosity, yeah, cracky.
Epicanus again left another comment on the playing ingress, thanking Lobat for his comment
and answering some questions, Epicanus again, referring to the talk cyber point to me,
which was the Sigflux wearable computer, useful information and has Raspberry Pi, so perhaps
he may also head down the road, Ralph left a comment on updating a garment for free, that
was an episode from some time back, episode 922, and that was by Riddlebox, usually comments
left that far back are in fact spam, however this is a comment from Ralph, how to make the
garment unusable first, I've thought about getting a used garment to use open strip masks,
but all the garment units, I've tried to display a legal agreement when turned on, I want
to greet to it, so I don't ever get far, far, there are other hacks for some units to
remove licensed ones, since pointer to that info would be appreciated, I have searched
Google every way I can think of and kind of found anything about it, so if you know,
search back to Ralph, Ruddenkin has welcomed the future on the Sigflux episode, it's
proving popular, Epicanus has requested that people review his code, review his code,
pointing at you, crayon, review code required, so if you are familiar with PHP, you can help
hacker public radio by reviewing our code, it's quite a lot of the current system is,
has been tidied up a little by me, but what I really want to do is make everything HTML5
CSS, reducing the amount of code as little as possible, but one thing that we will need
is some way to upload shows, and Epicanus has a, excuse me a moment, has a, some PHP that
will facilitate that, so if we could review it, that would be fantastic.
MVR Neo, remember Bannio, left a comment on Frank Bell's enlightenment adventures with
E17 Part 1, saying that he enjoyed the show and is looking forward to episode 2, as we
all are, and Tim Timini left a comment on terrestrial radio recording, saying that you can use
emplair with the option dash dump stream to dump the stream, which is interesting, clatoon,
commenting on E17, nothing needed to say is roaming on slackware, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, yada,
yada, yada, yada, yada, ya, ya, ya
ya, ya, ya, ya, ya, ya, ya, ya, ya, ya, ya
yada, ya, ya, ya, ya, ya, ya, ya, ya, ya
of the Toki to me news, but he should not do so. As it was very entertaining, Poki, I could
listen to you reading the telephone book. So, Brad, printer sounds, great podcast. This was,
of course, episode 1252, which is the long-road to Linux. Very popular show, great podcast,
the machine details and technology progression was very informative. I'm looking forward to your
future episodes. And then he has a link into of a man or astraman, sure that we're not for a
while back. They bought an Apple 2 and a dogmaid printer and played a song called a simple text
one, which is in a link is in the comments. Clat 2, comments on episode How to Build a Computer
by Toki, saying it was a great episode and he built his first box a year ago with the help of
some friends on IRC and can't imagine getting a computer that you have not assembled yourself.
I was amazed, actually, I would have thought Clat 2 would have built computers prior to that,
but I guess he was purchasing computers from the company that cannot be named. So that was
interesting. I personally would no longer buy computers because I no longer assemble myself
because they're just too much work to maintain, preferring instead to buy ready-made models like
the Raspberry Pi, which meets all my computing needs. David Whitman replies to say,
Miss Cupcake and Mr. Clat 2, is this scratch per object coded in Pearl? And if it is,
will you be appearing on Flaswiki? Congratulations, very good show. Thank you very much. And that was
the comments, yes it was. Now, let's move on to what happened in the mailing list.
There was a lot of discussion about the War Games anniversary and requesting that the show
be posted up slightly earlier. Dave Morris continues his sterling work on the back end for us.
Mr. Troops, long time no hear. Mr. Troops, founder of Twattek Radio, founder of InfoNamacan Radio,
for sure. InfoNamacan Computer Club, author of the code that serves Hacker Public Radio and has
done so for the last years, writes to tell us HPR is awesome. I couldn't agree more. I could not
agree more. Dave Morris also working on quality control and on the show meter during the month,
adding some changes and updates to it so that it looks a little bit better.
We have an open question about the open opus parameters for the eventual feed from
started by Epicanus. In the last community episode, you mentioned that you wanted to get some
information about the opus encoding, yes I did. And they, I've been thinking about the opus encoding
and what is the advantage to people of having an opus feed aside from the freedom that that entails,
but is it going to nullify the org feed and is it going to nullify the speaks feed? Now,
I can understand when you're doing live streaming that adaptive bitrace would make sense, but when
you're doing a file download, people on low bandwidth connections are going to receive the same size
of file. So it's of little use to them having a feed that can be adaptive if they have to download
the high quality anyway. So that's kind of one of the questions about it. However, I also want to know
what the best settings are for inclusion in the Gatorious HPR Transcode, which is up script,
which is up on the Hiccup Public Radio section of Gatorious. I sent an email out requesting
on how to link multiple hosts into the MySQL database. And this is in relation to
the show. We need a list of multiple hosts to a single show. Now, this is supported by the
atom feed. So you have the author of the show and then you have contributors who contributed to
that. So I wanted to find out the best way to do that. And several people have responded back with
several suggestions on how to do that. So what I need to do now is simply implement it.
In some very saddened depressing news, Hiccup Public Radio.com has been taken away from us
last February. I'm imagining that if nobody noticed or even cared, then nobody is using
the Hiccup Public Radio.com. So if there are people out there who want to help us get that back,
that would also be appreciated.
George, sound chaser has been asking if anyone on HPR has a SLT experience. I do a little.
So if you have XSLT experience, can you get in touch with sound chaser at cerebralrift.org.
David Whitman writes to say that the best kit is available. So if you are going to
be representing Hiccup Public Radio as an upcoming Linux event or any other event for that matter,
in the continental United States, Canada, Mexico, any of those regions over there.
That's how to the pond get in touch with Dave or get on the mailing list and he will ship the
kit to you. There also was an attempt by somebody for the first time to upload a
PHP script which contained a basic 64 and called gzip inflatable string, which couldn't see
particularly what it does. But for that reason, we have changed the password for the FTP server.
It is too long to read out here. So if you are uploading a show virus of an email to adminatacapublicradio.org,
not just to me please, adminatacapublicradio.org as all the admins have the password. And if you're
on IRC and know the password, feel free to give it to whoever requests this. I also don't think it was
somebody who was a host that had it. It was a fairly predictable password and they just got
lucky and got in. So now it's not predictable and hopefully in the upcoming weeks we will have
a upload form. We had Nido requesting a priority for observe hack and make interview with GMC,
which we did. Then we had an interesting post by Tatoo saying that new show posting algorithm
essentially is not working. So he has been in the queue for 42 days and counting and basically
recommends a much simpler algorithm. First and first out, when possible, no repeat holds on the same
week. No reserved slots and special requests for time sensitive shows are to be made. That's
his show was in there for 42 days. So what I did was did a quick breakdown on what exactly has
happened in that period of time. So it kind of breaks down like this. He uploaded a show on
the 4th of this on the 2nd of the 4th. So 20 touching 0402 as 030101 UTC and this is the upload
time taken from the FTP server. So the number of shows that have been released in that date started
at 1217. So a community news schedule slot. The next one was talking to me news was the schedule slot.
Rosuina was a new host. Following day was 5150 which was released under the previous rules.
Following day was schedule slot. Another schedule slot. Another new host, 5150 again.
Then we had Tracy Holtz who hadn't posted a show in 548 days before tattoos last show.
Talking to me news was a schedule slot. Mordassi had not posted a show for 121 days so obviously
tattoo had posted a show more recently. 5150 was still being released on the old first and
for a stout rule. Then we had a new host host that had posted in 364 schedule slot schedule slot
and we had a whole series of hosts. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine,
going from 146, 139, 111, nine, 69, 61, 54, 26. We had a schedule slot. We had 25 days, 57 days,
two schedule slots. We had a bump for the reserve show for northeast links fest.
When somebody who John had posted a show 14 days prior to
tattoo, Frank 12 days, another new host, Polki returned not having posted for 43 days before
tattoos last show. We had a schedule slot, new host schedule slot. We had JWP coming back
having had his last show prior to 229 days prior to tattoo's last show. Gor Jola was 28 days
before tattoo's last show. We had a schedule slot. We had a schedule slot returning 390 days
and then we had a new host. So that is the breakdown. So the rules as they were on the website
just allow me to go over there now real quick and you'll see under the calendar section are
fairly complex rules because now it's time critical. We have reserved slots for people who want
to reserve a particular day. Then we have scheduled slots. First in the month is community news,
links in the shell, and talk to each to me news. Then we have the normal priority which is what
we changed recently and that was based on the last time that a host aired and we have backup shows.
So essentially what that means is tattoo has just released a show. He takes a ticket and then he
goes to the back of the line. Now the back of the line is not the back of the line for everybody who
has shows in the queue. The back in the line is to everybody in the universe, people who have
posted a HBR and who have not posted a HBR because there's nobody who has released a show
since him. So the following day somebody releases a show and that person stands behind
plateau. So there's now only one person in the universe who if they submitted a show to HBR
would get on before we would not get on before plateau. So while the queue is very fair to
returning holes and also very fair to new holes, it's not very fair to people who have submitted
shows. So his proposal is to return to the first in first out and no repeating shows on only two
weeks and special reserved shows to which I eventually replied saying that I disagree with him
largely on the grounds that I kind of agree with him all right but that we should
and I can't find these comments in the in the mail list which is kind of frustrating but
bear with me. So my comments work to him that we should just have the first in first outroom
and essentially our host would then be presented with a upload form and on that upload form
they would you'd be able to pick a day in the future that is still free that you could post your show
and provided nobody has reserved that day prior to you and all your stuff is encoded properly
and the show notes are in there and I do treat tags and everything. You upload your show and it gets
processed then it automatically gets reserved. So you will go to the form an upload form or you put
this in the show notes we'll figure out that if people kind of agree and then from the point of
view of HPR we would take the show if the slot is over free we will mark it as unavailable and we
will post the show. So if you want episode 2000 for instance which will be in a few
point ever then you would record the show if we get added to the database and it would be on the
web server as HPR in apps under for such HPR 2000 dot MP3 2000 dot org 2000 that speaks and that
would be that it would be there there would be no more moving it about no nothing and the the point
of this is that then you know there is no giving system in HPR you have picked the show date you
know what the show date is and that's it. Things that would be dropped would be the community news
would no longer come out on whenever on the first of the month it would come out whenever
talking to menus would also come out whenever it would drop to the end of the queue and Linux and
the shell would also come in. So what that means for those guys would be I guess that they would
need to record some shows in advance and then pick if you want to pick every second Tuesday you
need to record a few shows and then pick the Tuesdays out. So your first show goes in and then your
second show could be on a Tuesday or whatever. Some of the points that people had was that you know
they want to prevent people from uploading shows all on one bunch during the week but hey
if people want to do that that's fine by me that's what the community decides. On some occasions
you're coming back from a fest you definitely do want to upload all the shows one after the other
and on and on another point you might want to say well I will release my shows over they
I will release some of the shows over the summer when it's kind of slow every two a month and then
when it's busier I will release some one a month or whatever it's entirely up to you but the
decision will be with the HPR community at the point though to remember would be that changing
slot will be virtually impossible because not only will it be technical technically difficult to do
we will need to go into the database we'll also need to update the and rename and move the files
making sure that nobody's downloading the files on the server at the same time. All the feeds and
will also need to be updated because people will already have the feeds and the IDs
and because it's a request from dudeman and several other people to have shows as they come into
the queue and then this way as soon as somebody uploads a show if you want the regular HPR feed
we will release them one a day on the day that they're intended by the host to be released
but if you join the all go max or you can eat feed it will as soon as they're posted they will
be posted out there and they will become known as HPR episode 2000 and if you want to swap that
date then you're going to have to get explicit permission from whoever was that has episode 2000
in the queue and that person will have to go back into the back of the queue taking your slot
because if there are 10 people posted and you want to post tomorrow then the other nine people
in between you when the first available slot would also need to change so that is far far too much work
and far too much chaos to do so that is essentially pushing the old scheduling discussion
of the of walls here and back onto you guys which is where it should be so new hosts will also not
guess bumped up at the queue that was something that we introduced relatively recently only two
years ago in order to encourage submissions but I think myself that if people are being flexible
with their upload time that at least when you post your shows and you host you would be aware
that okay I post my show and it's going to be two weeks from today on Tuesday two weeks from now
that's when my show will be out and that is when your show will be out because it'll be written
into the database and on that particular time the show will be released so yeah pretty
from our coding point of view it really simplifies all the work that we need to do in the back end
so as somebody uploads the show the picket days it goes to the transcoding thing which is almost
automated where Dave Morris and myself the code is all available on guitarist if you're interested
this it's all available on guitarist nothing is done in secret and then we can pop that stuff
onto into the databases we still need to do some sort of form of checking that the intros and
outs are in there but it should the turn around time for shows going to the FTP server and
getting posted are very very fast so you'll know your shows and you pick today and good luck to you
so that was pretty much that from the point of view of Hacker Public Radio for this month
I wanted to thank everybody who's contributed and everybody who is continuing to contribute
contribute and tune in next month for what will be the last scheduled slot on Hacker Public Radio
next month was on the first of the month is when if nobody objects that we will introduce
a new Hacker Public Radio scheduling system first in first in first out form so you will have
the option of course still of submitting your shows to a backup queue which we will use use to
pad out free slots if that's needed you will have the option of just saying normal priority which
will take the first available slot whenever that is so you won't know you will be emailed that
information or it will become available on the website or you can pick to upload your shows and
space them out over particular days or not this is entirely up to you the HPR community if you
don't agree with any of this as always discussions are taking on the mailing list and not in my head
essentially so there are advantages definitely for doing this because it's the biggest problem
that we have had has been the scheduling rules now in since we put in this other system they
you know go back to the end of the queue and let everybody in the universe submit a show before
you i have had to do this detail breakdown of why people have been released in the order that
they have been released three times for three individual people which takes an awful lot of time
which says to me it's not working so if sometimes not working you stop doing it you don't keep
begging yourself on the head if you can avoid it so from our point of view there will be no
scheduling and hacker public radio it's first come first served and if you're there you get the
pick of the slots the question of course will be what to do with all the shows that are in the queue
and simply the people in the queue will be given priority to upload the shows based on upload time
of their shows so for example right now in the queue we have the following people and this will all
change by the end of next month when when we go live with this new system by which time we need
the upload for our market and or at least some way of telling people this so anybody who has
released shows ahoka has released a bunch of shows on the 2000 the December 17th and the three
shows that he released on December the 17th he can he can decide where they come from actually
he released shows also the third of the third third the only other person who has released
to show was John Culp who then can decide when his show goes out and then we have plateau then
and it goes on and on and on and on and based on your upload time you can decide where you go
I will figure all that out what what would have been when it should be released and then those
will be scheduled as requested you can still continue to add shows to the backup queue we will
definitely need the backup queue a lot more than we have now so please because essentially this
old system the system that we're replacing now was making a backup essentially a backup queue
from the main queue which is not what people really want okay with that I'll stop talking I will
go have a cup of tea and go to bed and don't forget folks to tune in tomorrow for another exciting
episode of Hacker Public Radio you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio or Hacker Public
Radio does our we are a community podcast network the release is shows every weekday Monday through
Friday today's show like all our shows was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself if you ever
consider recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy it really is Hacker Public
Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the economical and computer clone HBR is funded
by the binary revolution at binref.com all binref projects are proudly sponsored by linear pages
from shared hosting to custom private clouds go to lunar pages.com for all your hosting needs
unless otherwise stasis today's show is released under a creative comments attribution share
life the does our license
