Episode: 1687
Title: HPR1687: Podcast recommendations
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1687/hpr1687.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 07:43:54

---

This is HPR episode 1687 entitled podcast recommendations and is part of the series podcast recommendations.
It is hosted by Thay Sarah and is about 22 minutes long.
The summary is Thay goes through his podcast list and shares the shows that he finds to be the most
interesting. This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An HonestHose.com.
What's good at HPR15? This is Taj and I wanted to jump on here and give an episode because we're
running significantly low and I was thinking about something I could throw together real quick and
the episodes that I've heard that people have done that didn't take a lot of prep time where
what's in everybody's pod catcher and I found a lot of cool ideas from what other people
listening to. So I thought I would throw together what I'm listening to on my pod catcher.
So this list is going to be what I listen to pretty regularly or things that I may not listen to
anymore but I think are important things that may not be being produced anymore. So you can still
go look them up and look up the back episodes and check them out. So I thought I would start with
sort of the Linux and the free and open source podcasts because that's usually what a lot of
people in the HPR community are into. So I just went down my list and the first one that I have
is the Dude Montevie podcast. This was Dude Man's old podcast. I really liked it. He has some really
cool ideas. I wish he would continue doing it. He only has a few episodes out but I really like
listening to him. The next one is Floss Weekly. This is from the Twit Network. It's really good
some of the times. I tend to skip some of these because they don't apply to something I would use.
They're more corporate but when it does have something that I'm interested in I will check it out
and I've started using some packages just because of this podcast. Next is the Gnu World Order.
This is Clotu's baby. I love this. Clotu is one of the role models for me in sort of our community.
Our backgrounds are kind of similar although he's done a lot more than me and I really love
listening to this podcast. Obviously the next one is going to be HPR. I listened to it because
I'm on it. So there you go. The next one is not exactly Linux but it is made by people in sort
of the community and that's the health notes podcast over on pod nuts. Like I said it's not
specifically Linux or open source related but who doesn't need to do something with their health.
So I listen to it occasionally anyways. Next is the Colonel Panic Podcast. This is a good
just general new show to kind of catch up on what's going on and just good personalities.
Next is the Linux link. The Linux link tech show. Say that five now is fast.
It's pretty light on Linux content these days but I still enjoy the conversation. I enjoy
the people on it so I listen to it. Next is the Linux voice podcast and that's just a
companion to their magazine. If you haven't checked out the magazine you should. It's a really good
Linux magazine and part of the money that they make off this is for Christian goes back to the
open source community so that's a great way to do it and the podcast is every fortnight so it's
not a weekly commitment to do. Next is the Linux lug cast. This is on the first and third Fridays
of the month. You should check it out. I'm on the show every once in a while but it's a great place
to go if you don't have a physical lug to go to just to kind of talk about issues or solutions or
ask questions so you should definitely check that one out. Next is the open source musicians podcast.
I came from a background of audio and video production. I used to be a professional musician.
I don't do that anymore now I'm a teacher. I haven't actually done any of that since I switched
to Linux full time so I'm really unfamiliar with the tools that to use so I check this out whenever
it comes out. It doesn't come out very regularly. I wish it came out more often but I do kind of
just listen to it to keep my toe in the water in case I do get some free time to start doing some
music again then I can use the tools that are on the platform I use. The next one is kind of
controversial. It's the Linux action show and it's kind of companion podcast Linux unplugged.
I did not watch or listen to the Linux action show for a long time. It actually kind of made me
mad a lot of the time that I watched it. About six months ago I picked it back up just on a whim
just checked it out and I was really surprised at the quality jump. I feel like it's a lot better.
They still have the bad habit of talking about non-free and open source things on Linux. They
really like to talk about everything that's proprietary on Linux but I do think that sometimes
they have interesting perspectives on the news and things so it's kind of cool to listen to.
Lastly in this category is Linux Outlaws. May it rest in peace. This is specifically the
one podcast that got me into Linux. Before this I was a Mac user because it's what I had to use
at work. FAB and Dan are single-handedly responsible for getting me into Linux. I just wanted to
check it out and so I found their podcast and the iTunes directory because that's what I used at
the time. It's all history from there. The next category I'm going to do is pop culture slash
just random things I couldn't put into another category. I found that this is most of what I
listened to other than the Linux and free and open source podcasts. I'm an unabashed nerd
and so a lot of the issue where you'll see where that comes from. Okay the first podcast on this
list is pod culture. Pod culture is run by people actually from the same town that I live in
and so it's kind of interesting to listen to a podcast with people who have the same perspective
as you just geographically. It's a show about just nerdy things. Any kind of pop culture things,
superheroes, sci-fi, they talk about it all, even sometimes not nerdy things. So it's kind of cool.
The next one on my list is the mind robbers and this is another one that's kind of geographically
locked to me. I actually heard about the main proprietor of the podcast got curly from pod culture.
He's also from kind of this area. He's had lots of podcasts over the years and I followed a lot
of them just kind of following him as he bounced around from podcast to podcast. He's a writer
and I find that sometimes I don't agree with his opinions but I do always look forward to hearing
his opinions on things. Sometimes we're in sync, sometimes we're not. It seems like a pretty cool
cat. So I just follow him around. The next one on my list is Trek cast my first big love in this
world is Star Trek and so this is just probably in my opinion the best Star Trek podcast out there.
It's the biggest and it's just if you want a good dose of Star Trek, that's where you start.
The next one is the doctor's companion and this is actually run by Scott Crowley from the
mind robbers and some more people. It's about doctor who which is another love of mine and I find
a good American centric view of it. It's a different perspective and it's funny if you listen to
anything that is British about doctor who how different the opinions can be and so I find it
interesting to just kind of go back and forth. Although I don't regularly listen to any one
British doctor who show. If you just kind of scatter shot and look at it, it's interesting to
see those differences. The next one is actually pod faded. I won't say pod faded. It's actually
done. They finished everything they could and it's called the Babylon podcast. If you're a fan of
Babylon 5 and I am and I think it's completely underrated by most people but if you like this show,
this is a great show. It's almost required listening. They break down every single episode and
discuss it and it's really interesting to see some of the insights that they come up with and
connections that you may have not thought of when you were watching it. They also interview a lot
of the people from the show whether they're the stars of the show or the behind the scenes people
and so that's also interesting to kind of hear what was going on when that show was being made
because it is an interesting and unique circumstance. The next one is fear the boot. Fear the boot
is about tabletop role playing games. I have listened to this for years. It's great. I'm a huge
RPG player and they do their best to kind of elevate the art I guess and they just have good
discussion and good insight into role playing and how to do it better and how to enjoy it more.
The next one I am a lifelong martial artist always half been and one of the big problems is if you
go looking for podcasts on martial arts everything you find is very style specific so you'll find
taekwondo podcasts you'll find MMA podcasts you'll find karate podcasts. Haya the martial arts
podcast is by far my favorite. I think it's must-listening especially if you do Chinese martial arts
although you don't have to both the hosts of the show do Chinese martial arts and so it's it's
cool from that way. One of the hosts actually does the same style with Kung Fu that I do although
we kind of come from different sides of the family so we do it a little different but it's nice
to hear his perspective on things it's very light and they like to have fun and so that's kind of
cool. I always think of it as if you go out after practice with your martial arts buddies and just go
sit around have dinner and talk that's usually what their podcast is like so that's pretty cool.
Next is this American life this is from MPR before podcasts I was a huge MPR addict and I still
am from time to time but I usually just do it through their podcast. This is just one of those
things that I have to listen to every week it's just part of my routine. I love the show and I will
probably never quit listening to it as long as it's made. The last one in this list is unfilter
okay and this is Jupiter broadcasting Ape and Go Agenda. I used to listen to No Agenda all the time
it's become too long I can't dedicate that much time to it and I feel like sometimes they kind of
go off the deep end there's a lot of talk about things that I'm just not interested in on No Agenda
these days. I think unfilters a little more grounded and it's only once a week and it's an hour and a
half it's it's in and out it tend to focus more I think on just clips of shows and putting that
together and they do a pretty good job of commentary they still have their opinions obviously but
I feel like it's a good way to get a dose of that I still listen to No Agenda every once in a
while but not regularly since I found this I feel like it scratches that itch without
me having to dedicate all the time to it okay my next section of podcasts is going to be about
ham radio I'm a ham I have been for a couple years I got into it just on a whim and these are
just the podcasts that I listen to they kind of keep me and it is even though I don't do it as
much as I would like to. Number one is Linux in the ham shack it's K5 Tux and his crew they talk
about ham radio and Linux I mean it's it's exactly what it says on the 10 this is my first go to
ham podcast because if I do ham it's going to be through Linux I'm not using anything else
and so I find that this is the one podcast that really goes for that.
The next one is resonant frequency which is kind of irregular it was going on for a long time
and it shut down it recently came back but I guess it's having some hiccups it's actually from
one of the alum of Linux and ham shack and so it's not specifically Linux related but it does
kind of have a nice beginning ham tilt to it which I like. The next one is ham radio this is
from the Twitch network this is their video podcast I found that lately it's been really boring
they just do more about things I'm not interested in in the ham radio hobby I still watch it
but usually I have it on in the background it's just not as interesting as I would like it to be
next is amateur logic now where ham nation falls down as a video podcast amateur logic picks up
and actually amateur logic one of the people on there is on ham nation I love this
probably more than most ham radio things that I've seen because it is a lot more about the making
and hacking and that where digital comes into the radio stuff and that's what I'm really into
and it's very looks hands on I mean they show you building things which is kind of cool I'm
much more into that educational aspect than I am just getting on the radio and talking to people I
I find that to be interesting in its own right but it gets boring very quick.
The next category that I have are science podcasts I love science I'm not a scientist
but I do like to just kind of dip my toe in and get cool ideas from it the first one is another
NPR podcast that's radio lab I like this one because it's very interesting they find just weird
things and spent whole episode describing it and like I said it's just insanely entertaining they
find a good way to make it applicable to people the next one is star talk this is Neil deGrasse Tyson's
radio show he'll bring in a guest and just kind of discuss something about science and for general
audiences you don't have to know anything about it but it just kind of an overview a lot of
times I kind of already know what they're talking about but it's still fun to listen to I love
Neil deGrasse Tyson I think he's he does a lot to kind of bring science to the average person to
make it interesting the next podcast is this week in science this used to be a twit podcast and
then they spun off on their own and it's just a weekly roundtable on general science they just
take the science news and break it down and I think that that is insanely interesting because I hear
a lot of things on there that I'm not going to hear anywhere else and they will follow a story
for a long time and so you will see how that one story will change you know over the course of a
year maybe two years they're very open about how sometimes science can be wrong and this is why it's
wrong sometimes and show you that process so I think that's a very good weekly podcast to listen to
the next category are Buddhist podcasts I'm a Buddhist that have been my entire life I was raised
that way and so I actually listened to a lot of Buddhist podcasts but I kind of shotgun it and just
listen to this one from the here and listen to this one from here I'm more interested in
following certain people and what podcasts they're on so I don't really listen to one
set of podcasts one that I do listen to and I think it is just a weekly listen is the Buddhist
geeks podcast it's kind of a take on Buddhism in the modern world and how things like technology
and science and society are impacting Buddhism as a religion it's very academic a lot of the time
but I still enjoy it and it's a weekly listen it's really short it's usually about a half an hour
so you can get through pretty quick and just kind of get a flash of something I find a lot of
people on that show I go back and read their books and stuff and they have very interesting insights
on it although the next one's in the Buddhism category it's not Buddhist but I think it relates
in my mind the relationship between the Vedic religions and Buddhism kind of mirror Judaism
and Christianity Christianity came from Judaism Buddhism came from the Vedic traditions and so the
next podcast is the Vedic mythology and Mantras podcast and so what it is I love Indian mythology
I think it's very interesting whether it has to do with my religion or not they're great stories
and so this podcast what it does is they will take a Vedic myth and they will tell you the story
they'll just basically like story time and then at the end they will give you a chant or a song
from Indian classical music that that goes with that this it's not being produced anymore but it
has tons of episodes so if you're into mythology and you don't know much about Indian mythology this
is a great place to start I know in school we learned about Egyptian mythology great mythology
we didn't learn you know the Ramayana we didn't learn the Mahabharata we didn't learn all these
really huge classics to one side of the world and I think that this is a great introduction to that
okay here at the end all I'm going to do is I'm just going to throw some shows from the
twit network I'm generally okay with twit I find that their stuff gets less interesting the longer
I listen to it but usually if I'm sitting around and I have nothing else to listen to I'll throw
on one of these just to kind of fill up space sometimes they have good insights sometimes they
have good people on them so it's worth listening to I wouldn't put it at the top of your list I
listen to all about Android because I am an Android user this week in computer hardware because
I think it's a good place to go to order and about hardware if you build computers this week in Google
twit the granddaddy of them all although that's been really badly lately I haven't liked it that much
I tend to be deleting it a lot and know how which is kind of their maker podcast they've been doing
a really good job the last couple months with quadricopters and building quadricopters I'm
what kind of parts you need for it and I want to get into that so it's kind of nice to see that
okay that's all I've got this time I hope you guys got something from this maybe you'll pick up
one of these podcasts and listen to it I would encourage everybody if you have not done an HPR show
this is a great one to do I basically just dumped out my podcast podcast list and
just read it to you I mean it's that easy doesn't take that much time and like I said it's a great
way for you to maybe share something with somebody that they've never heard of before and it could
become their new favorite podcast so take the time and put one together for us all right talk to you
guys later peace
you've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org we are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hecka public radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise status today's show is
released on the creative comments attribution sharelite 3.0 license
