Episode: 1200
Title: HPR1200: CJE Computer Jargon Explained 01
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1200/hpr1200.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 21:30:56

---

Hello everybody, my name is Alistam Unro, some people know me from Linux Outlaws and other
Linux sources as Black Crow. Today I wanted to introduce an idea that I've had which
is at a very embryonic stage called Computer Jargon Explained. The idea is to set up a website
where I give an every man description of computer jargon and terms and just technical concepts
which haven't got a very wide understanding amongst the general public. What I want to
do is provide a community-based website where there are shorts, YouTube-hosted videos with
the company audio and they will explain concepts such as DNS or a URL or what is a solid
state drive and what is its advantages. We'll create these videos, upload them to YouTube
and then link to those videos from a central site which I'm hoping to call CGE or Computer
Jargon Explained. You can then, they will all be produced and licensed under CC by SA.
The same as Hacker Public Radio is so there'll be no restrictions on whether you can redistribute
them, whether you can send them to other people, how you link to them. It's a completely
open source for information. Once the videos are uploaded, the only thing I will ask in return
is to leave a flatter link or possibly a paypal donation on the site. That way there's no
hesitation for people to use it as a resource and if they find it useful they can always contribute
back and hopefully we can get a little bit of an income stream going that will just keep the
thing and sustain the thing. The reason I decided to come to HPR and publicize this a little bit
is I wanted to get people's thoughts on what are terms that they are often having to explain
to the non-technical or the technically uninterested and if they could feed those ideas back to me,
those subjects, those main headings. The ones that I've thought I've already, as I've mentioned
before, things like URL, DNS and the whole idea came recently, well over the last 48 hours,
when a website that I am a moderator on a forum website that I'm a moderator on had a problem
with DNS. Some people were getting re-referred to the new IP of the website when they changed it
recently and some people weren't because some DNS services weren't updating with the new IP address.
Now the technical moderators, like myself, the site owners and a few others, were perfectly happy
discussing this but the non-technical moderators of the site because it's not an IT-based site,
it's actually a motorsport website. They quickly became frustrated that they couldn't
contribute anything to the discussion because they didn't understand the term DNS, it was just
pure jargon to them and they actually became belligerent and annoyed that they couldn't contribute
to the conversation because we were using all this jargon and that's where the thought came from
and hopefully when I get the site up and running, that will be the first entry into this resource,
will be an explanation of what is DNS, what does DNS stand for, why should you be aware of it,
what are the pitfalls, how can you improve your own home implementation of DNS and
why you should know about it, what are its implications, for example, for personal web privacy,
if you've got kids in the house which you can't monitor their internet usage 24-7,
how could DNS actually help you to improve their safety while you're not supervising them possibly,
and it's subjects like this where people can get a lot of benefit from a small
amounts of clearly explained information that I'd like to get up and running as soon as possible.
If people would like to do that, my first thoughts are that I'm going to use a white boarding
application in Chrome, full screen it and use a screencasting application to record the notes
that I do and then use the white board to diagram out some of the things I'm talking about
and possibly have a little bit of face-to-face video but certainly a clear concise audio track
which explains the concept thoroughly. If people would like to do that kind of thing and contribute
into the actual projects on that basis, they're more than welcome to. I'm a little bit thin on
details and places to point you at at the minute. Initially, I'm going to have it as either subdomain
or a subsection of one of my personal websites which is aimunrow.net. I'll spell that out for you
AMUNRO.net. When I get something more tangible up and running, I'll put links
to where I'm at on that website. You can also email me directly at
Alistair at aimunrow.net. That's A-L-I-S-T-A-I-R-A-M-U-N-R-O.net. Any contributions, any suggestions,
any helpful advice you can give me will be gratefully received and hopefully we can put together
something which is a real value to people and helps people understand the sometimes complicated
world of the internet and computers. Thanks very much for listening. I hope I haven't
waffled on too much and I hope this grabs your imagination. Please, please get in touch. I am
interested in hearing everything the community has to offer on this subject and I look forward to
hearing from you and also speaking to you again about the progress I've made with it on Hacker Public
Radio as soon as possible. Thanks everybody. Bye-bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show,
like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself. If you ever consider
recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public
Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club. HPR is funded by
the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are proudly sponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share a like, lead us our lives.
