Episode: 1889
Title: HPR1889: experiencing the meegopad T-02  part one
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1889/hpr1889.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 10:49:55

---

This is HPR Episode 1889 entitled Experiencing the MiGAPAD D02 Part 1.
It is hosted by a shadowy figure and is about 13 minutes long, the summary is, and out
for something completely different.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
You are listening to a shadowy figure on Hacker Public Radio.
Tonight I'll be discussing the MiGAPAD D02.
It's a PC stick using the Intel Z3735F atom processor with 2GB of RAM.
It's basically an Intel Compute stick with an extra USB port.
What follows is a dramatization of my experiences with the T2.
Enjoy faithful listeners.
It was a night just like any other night down at Mad Dog Dave Morris's pool hall.
But tonight I wasn't finding any luck at all with the dams.
Seems all the sweethearts just want to hang around with guys lugging around big iron microphones
who record for Hacker Public Radio.
I didn't stand a chance with heavy hitters like a hook of the Hun.
And John the Killer Culp, Roman around a joint break in broads, hearts as often as they
go through a pack of lucky strikes on a whiskey bench.
I knew I had to do something and had to do something fast.
Otherwise there wouldn't be any Barbies left for me to apply my Kung Fu grip.
I needed answers.
The kind of answers you can't find in a tent of debauchery on a Saturday night with
the maxed out credit card and a half a pack of smokes.
So I eased my way towards the exit, hoping nobody would notice I hadn't paid my bar to
me.
I made a B line out of there like an American politician avoiding a lie detector test.
I stopped by the 51-50-24 hour pawn shop to see what they had in big iron microphones.
The man behind the counter greeted me wearing a gas mask.
I didn't ask.
He didn't tell.
I told him I wanted some audio equipment to help me bag the elusive split tail plan
fox.
He showed me an assortment of some used earbuds with one side tied to a knot.
Said he got them from some Dutchman needing some dough for green wheels.
I asked what sort of deranged lunatic ties one side of their earbuds in a knot.
He replied, this sort of deranged lunatic.
And the kind of guy who prefers green wheels over black.
I didn't reply to the man in the gas mask.
I just sort of eased my way backwards towards the door.
I tip my hat as I made my way out of there before any of that weirdness rubbed off on
me.
I knew I needed to look beyond the borders of my sleepy little town to score the big iron
I needed to land a damsel in distress in my dusty old lap.
So I got on a horn with an old fence I knew from the big easy.
David Dirty Dog Whitman.
Healed me a favor for bailing them out of an embarrassing situation involving a whistle
from a box of captain crunch.
He told me he could get me the big microphone I wanted.
But he'd have to go to some sort of bay to get it.
I told him whatever it takes.
I couldn't stand another day of seeing N.Y. Bill walk out the door with a damn I'd had
eyes on all night.
About a week later I found a brown paper package on my doorstep with an old attached
to it saying, where even.
My days of playing second fiddle to a multimeter modifier was coming to an end.
I brought the package inside and tore it open like it had an extension to my favorite
body part hidden within.
And in a way it kind of did.
The Blue Yeti microphone I impact filled me with feeling of power and authority over
the teaming masses of the H.P.R. audience.
Not to mention all the names back at mad dogs.
My favorite body part reacted favorably.
I tried to plug the Yeti into my rig, but just like the story of my life, I just couldn't
find the right slot.
This was a last straw.
I've gotten all the use I can out of my IBM 386PS2 model 70.
It's time to upgrade in the name of desperation.
Ward on the street was courtesy prompt to add consent some hot hardware burn in the
finger tips and was looking to unload some many stick computers.
I don't like the idea of woman anything called a mini stick.
Ward getting around to the shadowy figure had a mini stick could be devastated to my reputation.
But I was desperate.
So I hopped on telling that located seat prompt.
I told them to meet me down by the tracks at midnight and to come alone.
We met at the corner of T.R.S. and 80th Street on the bench next to Water Mountain.
He asked me if I had to do.
I said yeah, you got the rig?
Yeah, I got the rig he said.
I replied.
How much you want for it?
It told me 72 clams.
I peeled off four jacksons and told them to keep the change.
See prompt lived up to his reputation of delivering cool stuff.
The me go pad T02 stick computer fit in the palm of my hand like a Sega master system
game controller.
And the specs weren't all that bad for the price.
It has a Z3735 processor, 2 gigs of RAM, 32 gigs of storage, Bluetooth Wi-Fi, and
dual USB ports.
I took it back to my mountain fortress and plugged it into my Sony Trinitron to a series
of attachments and extensions that looked like they came out of a science fiction movie.
From the 40s.
Once I hit the power button and saw the unity desktop spring to life, I was happier
than a bowl in a budgina shop.
But all was not well.
I needed to go into the setup option on startup in order to keep the system from freezing
on the purple screen of loneliness before the system boots.
It also runs a Chinese edition of Ubuntu, so I was seeing Chinese characters in places
I couldn't get rid of.
Ubuntu let me know it wanted to do an update, and who am I to say no?
A half an hour into the update, the system failed, due to poor Wi-Fi reception.
Even though the T2 was within half a meter of my net gear 600.
When I rebooted, the operating system was gone.
I didn't shed any tears being as I was just going to wipe the system anyway and put
LXLE or Ubuntu on it.
I loaded a thumb drive with LXLE and gave it a go on Amigo Pad.
No dice.
The Amigo Pad treated LXLE like a bold dog chewing a wasp.
So I tried Ubuntu, but the Wi-Fi wasn't available.
So I dug an old ethernet to USB adapter out of my desk drawer.
I got from Frank the Beard Bell in exchange for a baggy full of yeast.
Don't ask.
I plugged the ethernet adapter into the T2 and fired up Ubuntu for a fresh install.
All went well until I rebooted to find the install didn't stick.
I took it personal.
Special thanks to Kevin McLeodick and Competech.com for his awesome music.
And to the many contributors to FreeSound.org for their sound effects contributions, you
can find out more in the show notes.
This entire episode was recorded using a Blue Yeti microphone on Amigo Pad T02 so you
know there will be a follow up.
This is a shadowy figure signing out from the darkness.
We've been listening to HECCA Public Radio at HECCA Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
HECCA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution,
share a light, free dot org license.
