Episode: 1631
Title: HPR1631: HPR Community News for October 2014
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1631/hpr1631.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 06:05:03

---

its Monday 3rd of November 2014. This is HBR episode 1,631 entitled HBR Community News
for October 2014 and is part of the series HBR Community News. It is hosted by HBR volunteers
and is about 52 minutes long. Feedback can be sent to admin at hackerpublicradio.org
or by leaving a comment on this episode. The summary is discussions on the new year show
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared
hosting with the offer code HBR15 that's HBR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Hello everybody, I'm welcome to Hackerpublicradio.com.
Welcome to HBR15.com.
Hello everybody, I'm welcome to Hackerpublicradio Community News for the month of October 2014.
This is a regular show scheduled day last, first Saturday before the first of the month, I don't know.
I mean, scheduled day sends out an email and everybody turns up. Tonight starting in alphabetical order,
we have Ahuka Bebebeks. Cool, no, no. Okay, wish her. And before we start, Kevin wants to talk
about the HBR new year show and tell us what it is for a start just in case there's some people
who don't know. Well, is this the fourth year for it or third? I can't remember. I believe it's
the fourth. We'll call it fourth and I can correct this if they're wrong. It's just on starting at,
well, it's the first year we started at noon. I can't remember what clock we used to start,
but we went for 12 hours and after that we started doing 24 hours. We were actually starting. It
would be, my time was 6 a.m. Eastern Standard Time in the States. Then that we run 24 hours,
and the last two years, I think, in and others have chopped up the show into three hour chants
or and put it out as Hackerpublic radio episodes. So it's just a big community gathering.
You pop in any time you want, chat about what you want, and just a big chat fest and a lot of fun
to participate. I've helped out for the last two years in pumping a screen to an ice cast
server for the streaming service. And I'd like to discuss, we're going to make any changes
from the previous years, who's going to be doing a lot, who's going to do that course later in the
now, but again, I think was thinking about making minor changes. Yeah, there's a few corrections.
First of all, the average day is longer than 24 hours, so we had the idea that we would start when
the first time zone hit New Year's and continue on until the last time zone exists. And due to
the way the earth is positioned and people want to be in different time zones, it turns out this,
the New Year show is actually 26 hours long, so that was it start. What worked really well
last year I thought was the Evernote page that we had off. So everybody who wanted to discuss
a topic on the particular hour, we had a skeleton frame for the particular time and time zones
so that we could greet the time zones as they joined in. And people who wanted to discuss topics
put that in particular slots and as we got to them, we discussed them and then links and various
things that were discussed during the shows as they were going on, we were shown notes into the
Evernote thing, which actually worked out really well because then we could annotate various
different episodes with really cool show notes, so I thought that worked really well.
So that's going to show some volunteers to do that again.
Okay, that is fantastic. And one thing that we also had was a ice cast server on our own
thing, we used this mobile server, which is who is actually supplying this to us again.
John Newsteader is the owner maintainer of this and I've chatted with him and he gave us the
green light to use it again in the show. Thanks to John Newsteader for that.
Okay, fantastic. And we have a script that was plied by also from IRC, Australians,
not stocks, but brown. Yep. And that basically just divvies out the
streams to various different mirrors. To be honest though, looking at the amount of people who
are downloading our own VPS is more than capable of handling everybody that was listening on the
ice cast. And also looking at the number of people who are on the MP3 feed, I don't really see
a whole lot of point in doing an MP3 feed this year and I don't see a lot of point in doing
mirrors either unless people want to. So you're just wanting an on feed coming off of the main
VPS. Yeah. And the logic for that is it's a lot of work behind the scenes trying to keep
everything open. So my idea was that we would run an accession on the VPS. Everybody who's
doing the admin would take particular times that they could watch it or watch over. And then we
use was a C-proms. I can't remember who also did a how-to tutorial on how to use Pulse Audio
to just feed the output from a mumble client directly into an ice cast server and then we
just stream from that. So simplifying everything else that we don't need to 100 on one client
machines and that the one client machine does everything and everybody who needs to
or who wants to help out with the admin and has experience with mumble and Pulse Audio and
whatever can just connect to the central server and your Babsha uncle you're done.
I'm lost on what you're referring to as far as the client is in Pulse to feed that screen.
Okay well we have you are currently rolling your client on your PC. Yes.
And the output of that goes to your headset or your speakers. So with Pulse Audio you can redirect
that to a sync. That sync can then be redirected into ice cast and ice cast can stream that up
to simple with that. So you would have one listener in the mumble room that would be the ice cast
listener that will be running on the client PC on the VPS in the next session and client PC.
Unfortunately there's no command line client for mumble as yet. Boss run in the next session
and anybody who wants to can connect to the controller. So nothing nothing too major.
And with the the idea behind getting rid of the MP3 is not not a lot to do with Reven that's
more to do with basically every browser supports org and we can put on embedded play
thing on the web pages. And the reason for this is just the amount of work that is going into
goes into getting everything ready for the new year show just means that's at that holiday
time of year you have a lot of people sitting around getting a technical equipment ready when
they should be just having to spend any time with the family. Sound like a plan? I have a thing
about it and we'll see get you well first of all get the thing set up and then do it. Oh my god
it's the next month. It's the end of next month. Where did you go to? So who will be running the
client that uses that pumping the stream? Sorry can you say that again? Who will be running the
client that will be pushing the stream to a server? Whoever's doing the admin so it'll be on a
think of it as a accession running on the VPS. So once I kick it off or if you're off you can
control it. If we need to do anything with it, whoever is doing the admin at that particular point in
time can connect to the VPS and with the next session and then like something like a virtual
natural client VNC or something like that connect in mobile client is running their click start,
click stop that sort of. Sound like a plan. Okay shall we get back to the purpose of this show which
basically a rundown of what's been happening in and around the HVR community news in the last
month and I'm happy to say it hasn't been revolving around me this month and it has been revolving
around a lot of the people who were over at Ogcamp. So before we get into the meter of the matter
just to catch friends from somebody else we will introduce new hosts. Coronamol, do you want to
introduce the new hosts? Yes so we've got some new hosts, one of them being me. I did my first
podcast or first episode this month and the other being Benny. Two people who hit the ground running
I must say very much welcome to HPR. Where's Benny from? Switzerland. Very good. And he met it
over to Ogcamp. Yeah he did. He was actually prior to Ogcamp. He was camping or doing some kind
of end of term because he's a teacher. So some kind of end of term thing with his students in Belgium
and then he just got the year of star and came to Ogcamp. Excellent stuff. Oh cool. Okay so let us begin
shall we? Okay. Do you want to start? I would be delighted too. So on October the first we had show
1608 from our brand new host Coronamol doing interviews at Lincoln Lug and one of those interviews was
with the lovely bubble backs. It was a it was a good bunch of interviews. This was a nice one
least of all from not least the fact that I have created a monster. So the only the only
next point I could come up with this is I would have released these all as individual shows myself.
I do like I get more shows in Philippe you did a brilliant job on this it has to be said.
Not brilliant thanks. It was actually I did it just as sort of like practice for Ogcamp. So I've got a new
Zoom handheld recorder and I just thought I'd do a little practice at our local lug and I think
it turned out okay actually. So I'm thinking I might do it once a year as a kind of just a
keep track of who who attends our local lug and yeah I think it turned out okay. It's a very nice
mix of people who yeah they're different backgrounds and you know different they're the way of
coming into Linux seems. It's always fascinating you always think it's going to be the same but
everybody has their own story. We do have a very eclectic mix of candidates at Lincoln Lug. So
you know we have you know men, women, children, when when when those users. Yeah so basically society
I guess. No brilliant club. Brilliant club just and I just realised myself how lucky you can be
if you do have a you know a nice lug in your area that you can go to. It's a it's a nice social
event too. It has to be a wife runs it. True true. So moving on the following day we had
Siggle and the process of e-pubs in Foss. Whoa just lost and Bronx have a lot of hassle getting
stuff produced. Don't know any into e-publishing stuff or anything. So far I'm just a consumer.
I have I do know his pain from going from one format to the next one from XML to HTML and
theoretically it should all work fine on paper but it never ever does. So if you are doing e-pubs
this is definitely a one two two. So the following day wrapping up I don't know was a wrapping
up not awesome wrapping up the file system series was a JWP with butter FS which I think has to
be the best name of a file system other than I can't believe it's not butter FS.
I think that did wrap it up. Am I missing something? Was that the last one? Yes I think it was
that was the last one. Which is a pity really. Only negative comment I can make about it is
that it was the last one. I want more. Yeah there's no reason. I think the JWP has a treasure trove
of information there. I strongly suspect he would you would be able to put another few
series like that together if he put his mind to it. Then the next day was as you all were having
a fantastic time as on camp we were stuck here recording a show and picture for fine looking
gentlemen and the show notes for the HPR community news. And I think it was just you and me that time
Ken. I was working hard working hard. Davis is unable to join us he sent in his his apologies
he has had life happen. Well you know I abandoned him at least once because the stuff that I
hit going so. Then we had an interview with Michael Tilliman which was open source newsberg semiotic
robotic. You're jumping around here. Am I am I am I. Yeah because we were on 1611 so the next
show is 1612 was NY Bill. Don't forget the refurb. Oh okay yeah oh I hit last sorry. Don't forget
the reburbs in my bill. Why would he do this? Selling a perfectly good laptop actually they can
kill us. He just moved the microphone around. Did anyone follow this at all? Yeah I did. I took an
interest in this because I've got pretty much the same laptop. It's not I think NY Bill's was the
tablet one but mine wasn't. But yeah pretty much the same laptop and I thought it was fantastic
what he did. It was. No doubt about it. I don't think a lot of people would be just willing to
take on that task. That's okay. That's pretty cool and there are lots of pictures and stuff
and I've said it before and I say it again if I ever do make it to the States I am going to the
museum of technology that is in my bill's house. I hear he cries a pretty main barbecue. Good good
in the snow too. The following day we had Michael talking about his internet nickname and
the hooker do you want to tell me what that internet nickname is? I would have pronounced it
inches. That is a good one actually. We learn a bit a lot. We learn about people's nicknames.
We learn about the history of stuff. I of course picked mine can underscore fun. My real name is
H3774. So you're an android? I'm unable to answer that question. Your real name is hella.
No my name is Ken for a very good reason because I'm the fourth son and my mother was expecting a
girl so she had a lot of girls names and she had already ran out of her boys names so I got named
after the kid who was in bed next to him. You should record a genealogy episode. Yes I actually
that I quite interested in genealogy and there's some good genealogy stuff on them actually for
tracing your family tree. I'm named after a terrorist.
Kevin? Yeah. How's your Irish history Ken? Does the name Kevin Barry ring a bell?
It does indeed. It does indeed. I'm named after one of the politicians come out and said
that the Irish rebellion was would have been considered an act of terror and wasn't justified.
Fair development was made in Ireland. An early lesson to me that it's all a matter of your
perspective. It is true it's true. I was very tempted to do an episode on whether I'm a terrorist
or not depending on my previous history either and yeah I've decided not to do that episode because
that would be getting your name associated with the word terrorist. It's not a good thing.
Not now the NSI listening. Probably wise. Then we had open source newsbreak from Opersource.com
K12 Karen Sandler open source identity crisis and I like the discussion that went on along with
this it was nice to discuss to have this show is discussed in a sort of open round table
way. Yeah it was great and I love Karen Sandler. Then we had you with inferential statistics
functions. Thank you. I'll withdraw a conclusion from data and make predictions. I can tell you
love this stuff. Yes I do and you know this comes under the heading of maybe everyone at
who listen stage PR might not love it but you know enough people do. I've actually gotten some
feedback from people who said oh yeah I'm into that stuff too. I'm not knocking us Kevin.
I'm not knocking us as we say there is always somebody who pulled something from this. This was
of all your shows the ones that I would have loved to hear when I was doing this in college but I
and had a point of just trying to forget all this stuff because it just doesn't float my boat
on the fridge. However it is interesting to see and again for people there are excellent show notes
to go along with this. It's in some of some of these episodes you really would benefit from
looking at the graphs and stuff that go along. Yeah I write out everything and have screenshot
and what have you. So that's all available at my website. I would actually like to see more of
these on the various types of statistics. Don't get me wrong. It's flowing over my head a little
bit. It is I think it's an interesting topic. It's always good to know to learn more stuff about
things. If things are presented to you in a nice way by people you like then you're more inclined
to listen to it and they go okay well if he likes it then I might devolve some time to learning
the topic. Yeah and if you want to see how some of this stuff gets applied I did a show a few
months ago on how to understand political polling that might be of interest. That is one of my favorite
episodes actually that one. That's really knocked it home to me about how you do need to listen to
the number of you know at the end of this but of course this is only a poll of you know 4,000
lot of people randomly sampled on a telephone poll. Okay we were trying to BS me or something.
Anyway the following day was 1660 how to use web fonts. Clat 2 reveals how to use web fonts without
Google and this is so simple and I think he's hit a point here. Every site you go to I have
I have a blocker that's a request policy that prevents a web page from calling other web pages
and the amount of websites that go to web fonts like Google is unbelievable and absolutely unbelievable.
Philip likes fonts. Yeah exactly but run them off your own server I mean they're
well I don't know there are some advantages to running them off of Google's server I mean for example
you get this caching involved so it means that you don't have to download each time you go to
you know a different website is already in it loads quicker. Yeah but from the security standpoint
I generally like to restrict my browser to only stay on the same site because they don't want
cross site scripting going on. Yeah I'm a bit more relaxed about it. Also the tracking
issue. Yeah again I'm fairly relaxed about that sort of thing. Okay but cool it's an option
it's a good option but I don't know do you do you host your images on other people's websites?
No not personally but I don't I don't really see a problem with it I yeah I don't tend to buy
into all the you know NSA stuff and people tracking me and stuff it kind of past caring
not to be honest I'm not up to anything bad I'm not doing anything wrong so you know who cares?
That is the subject for another show that is true. I could point you in the direction of some
other shows and probably we'll do in the comments to this but I mean let's move on. We had
the hug camp is a free and free culture on conference and we had the first from Benny
which was the Android space team episode and this was one of those episodes that
I wonder what the hell is going on here. I wasn't drunk either. No I had I had I speed up all my
shields and this one was sped up two times and there was like what the hell is going on and then
I got it and I downloaded the app but I had nobody to play with it too very soon. It was definitely
more of a spectator sport there was six of us around the table it was hilarious. Were you all
paying or just the two of you? No there was three of us we were in pairs so me and my daughter Emma
we then had Matt's copper weight and his partner Marie and Mark Johnson and his partner I can't
remember what her name was so one of us is on the phone and it was just like you have to you know
if there's a wormhole you have to flip the phone upside down and it just gets faster and faster
and faster it was hilarious like I say for the people watching us because we were so busy
concentrating on the telephone but you do need at least two people to play but the more people
that play the more fun it is. It sounded like a you know an episode of Star Trek whether they
give some Scotty Europe card something really obscure to say. Yeah I can testify it was pretty
funny. I think I don't know I mean I didn't play it myself but I would imagine that when you're
playing it things happen so fast you don't even realise what you're saying so as a spectator I was
taking it all in and though there was just some classics coming out. It's the only time you take
any notice of what I say. The following day we had been in with another episode in from Ogkamp
again and this is the first interview with Peter Cannon and also Alistair. Peter Cannon is from
the Dictorpin Road shop and how's Alistair? Black Crown. Yeah quite interesting actually.
So how did you do the interview things? Did you just let people walk off and walk around and catch
people or did you wait for them to come to the booth? I just kind of approached people and shoved
the microphone under the face a bit like UK. That's my boy that's my boy. He taught Benny well.
Yeah it was it was okay it was a bit difficult they can hear everybody yeah so the I was a bit nervous
to begin with and then after a while I just thought a lot for myself well you know I was just going
to stop the mic right under their face and if they wanted to talk to me probably if they don't
yeah it's not a big deal and I think I think we've got managed to get a good number of interviews
I've still got I've still got a number that I need to process and upload. Yeah as soon as the
better so he who had interviews for two years on his unposted the shame the shame the shame
did you have headphones on was all? No I just just used the zoom just pressed the record but yeah
just had a bit of a chat with him and that was about it. Okay it was definitely a point and shoot
excellent I love that I loved it also good good good good shows you really capture the the
atmosphere of the other thing let's spend the whole point okay moving on 1619 was bare metal
programming on the Raspberry Pi programming 101 and this is Gabrielle even fire who had a very
technical and interesting episode way back and now is doing basically booting his own code onto
a Raspberry Pi who needs a Linux kernel when you can hack it yourself and this one is I don't know
I found this one very very interesting because this we did some compiler machine code coding
when I was in college and stuff so this working with interrupts and doing pull-compeaking stuff
like that it's really cool what he has done with this episode and you sometimes forget when you turn
on your computer and it's all flashy and your phone comes on and it's all with bang at it all
more or less works on the same principle it goes to a particular memory address and then it starts
from their boots booting itself up so I love this episode then we had passwords entry good password
practices by who co no one got a lot of comments actually it did do you want to address them now
um well let's see uh one of them was someone who thought that I was being very insufficiently
cautious when treating with password length although I went back over what I had said and I
I think I said that it's an arms race and you know you shouldn't rely on length alone you need
entropy as well but um so I suggested uh if you don't like what I did do a show yeah no I think
I don't think that was the point the the point was that uh it's not enough to um they're
to combine well-known dictionary words to make a longer one and that that uh that has been advised
recently um but you also need to make the words gibberish as well because they're able to get
up to 55 characters uh words which believe me uh it's about four or five words six words
and one of my comments on the episode was quite a lot of systems restrict uh for example if you want
to use citrix while windows supports longer character longer passwords than that 64 or something
citrix itself only supports up to 32 characters so you need to have a password shorter than that
um so fit being able to with uh of the shelf um cracking tools being able to crack a 55
character password quite easily kind of you know it takes it to the next level as well so it's
it's uh the point was you know the xkcd of um yeah I know the one you you thought it basically
takes four dictionary words and just strings them together and his point was that that gives you
plenty of interviews um and it's easy to remember so it's like uh battery stable um correct horse
battery stable and which is actually in all the password dictionary hacking things now
oh yes uh you know taking the one that was in the comic is a bad move just in itself um
but his point was that uh they are now combining these words together with
separators and also replacing all with zero and stuff being able to crack what would be even
difficult to password so it's yeah it's a tough one I and I don't know what the answer to it is
really it's what are you gonna do well my view is that passwords alone are just not sufficiently
secure uh you you have to bring in something uh you know I for stuff that I care about I try and
use two-factor authentication wherever possible yeah and even that there are ways around that
so yeah but I can then again you did make the point in your uh in your episode that's it was uh yeah
it was the government agencies will be able to get to your stuff you know dedicated attackers
anyway we'll move on we'll move on interview with James Tate of canonical and this was brought to you
by Cornell and we have a picture of James with um marker shuttle worth good interview
Philip good interview yeah thanks chinese is a really nice guy yeah it was a pleasure talking to me
the pity about the Ubuntu one thing they were doing some interesting stuff there and uh
now he's working on the Ubuntu for sort of laughing deliberately but it's it's a pity to see
technology like that just abandoned that but I can see why they get out of the business though
yeah don't know why they're going into an informed business stuff this was also the last interview
of op camp they were actually packing up the marques and the tables and we uh James's wife and his
family were waiting and Philip um and James was still interviewing whilst everything was going on
around them uh the beauty of time shifting no it's excellent it's good to bring uh you know
bring faces and and that there are people behind these projects that people are uh you know
tend to slug off or whatever so good good stuff now finally back to episode 1622 Michael
Tineman uh time and Tineman Teeman Teeman yes correct thank you him and uh this was um
well i'm gonna call it my favorite show of the month actually um i i'm a fan of the history of uh
Linux and it was i just love listening to this interview it was a good uh it was a good
alternative view to the you know join us now and share the software stuff uh given a business
perspective to it i think that was mentioned in some of the extensive comments to do this episode as
well and maybe we can talk talk about those later on but uh for those of you who get to know
listen to this this is uh one of the founders of uh what was the company again the couple by Red Hat?
well he was uh at signis i believe and then signis was bought by Red Hat and he came over i think
his uh chief technology officer something like that yeah i'm put there be business into Red Hat so
very very good episode about um yeah about open source and uh how it's how it works from
our business point of view setting up a company. Benny had a good interview with Kevin
Milner and George Dosher of the tech and coffee thing and this is something i didn't even know
as uh George was involved in um because i don't use google plus because
tech and coffee is a huge community now yeah massive over a thousand people on the community
and they regularly have you know sort of like 20 30 people in the hangouts massive
wow and uh yeah it seems to just uh just explore it and expand it it's amazing
i mean there's two things that geeks really like tech and coffee there you go there you go genius
yeah we have a group here in michigan called the coffee house coders
well i like that too that's pretty good do you actually meeting do you actually meet in a coffee
house or uh i'm not a member of it but uh yeah i believe they do meet in a coffee house
great place to crack wi-fi says he who's not very diverse people
about his privacy uh indeed well yeah i don't need public wi-fi
okay the following day we had the kevin with a pranker called for talks anything did you get any
talks in kevin uh you know i don't know whether anything came from this particular program
or not um because i have no way of actually tracking that but as you know with uh trying to
publicize things you just try and get the word out as broadly as possible and um i'm looking to
get a lot of stuff in i've got uh about 30 hours of stuff uh in hand already and that's that's
halfway towards what i had last year now very good and you were uh on the following day as well
with uh quick look some miscellaneous functions in calc which i liked actually that was a nice short
little episode on uh various different options that are available to you yep and following
that uh was again opensource.com team having a roundtable discussion about azcon 2014 about the
various different talks uh keynotes and that sort of thing so that was uh that was a nice
episode all around again good to get an idea of people's uh various different shows and the
atmosphere of them can tell that it's a very different atmosphere in there to something like
a god camp so good stuff yep then we had 5150 and our condolences go out to 5150 on the passing of
this father this month yeah it's just been the last few months have been really tough uh because
you know the house burned down um he had some burn issues although thankfully he seems to have
recovered then about a week ago his father passed so but uh i can tell you on google plus he's been
talking a lot about how thankful he is for all of the support and the friends and all of that so
yeah comes in threes to say so um anyway uh this was a excellent episode on uh 5150 shades of
beer and i love the episode uh i refuse to make a series out of this until he's sent in three
as i've done with uh several different people so if it's three if you want a series it has to be three
or more uh all the better if there's more and i like this because uh i do like um being a father
who has biological alarm clocks that still come in in the morning regardless of what time you set
them um i get to drink beer very rarely so therefore if i am going to have a beer it better be a good
one so if anybody um wants to send me some of these feel free to do so then we had the following day
cornomenal with an interview with pepperon comics i have never heard of this and spent a good hour or two
uh browsing their website they're very funny cartoons pretty cool yeah me too um and uh it turns out
that because i subscribed to linux voice i've been seeing uh comics from these folks all along i
just hadn't made the connection until we had this program but uh i'm now working through all of those
comics now yeah again they were they were super nice and uh and pleasure to interview and uh
yeah they were great they had a fantastic stall at odd camp as well when i first saw it i thought
they were a professional sort of like um get me a professional outfit but they do all in their
spare time it's all open so all you know free tools it's yeah it was brilliant and they're the style
of their stuff is very different from their different uh different series that they have on the
but all all quite funny i like it it's good it's nice to see this stuff popping up well done come
um uh pull up well done thanks banana pie first impressions by migray like this episode this was
because i've uh i've seen one of these and the only reason i wouldn't get them is because i
think while i have so many raspberry pies anyway um i don't think it gives enough that the
raspberry pie doesn't and i like their teaching and free while the the mission behind the raspberry
pie to me the raspberry pie foundation and what they're trying to do in education is what really
drives me to sport the project but hey go home to other options i guess i have to admit i actually
just bought my first raspberry pie well i had a reason too i found out i had mice in the
seller on my first um first thing i did was run upstairs and order an infrared camera
yeah i was at ohio linux fest and uh fellow was talking about how you could run uh well i'm
going to say xbox media center i know they just renamed it but i'm drawing a blank and i couldn't
you could run all that on a on a raspberry pie and and and it sounded like it would do everything i
wanted uh to do so i thought well hell you know raspberry pies cheap but when i just buy one and
check it out absolutely i um just last week actually i um fit the raspberry pie to the side of a
building in a little weather proof box and it's um it hopefully fingers crossed i'm not being
back it i'm due about this Friday but it's been taking a picture of every 30 seconds so
we're going to stick so together and have a time last video but the pie itself is going to be in
this box for probably about nine to ten months just taking pictures every 30 seconds it's got a couple
of got a couple of 64 key USB sticks attached to it and um i don't think i need to visit the site
probably once a month once every four night maybe just to empty the images off this USB stick
but hopefully it's going to capture a really good time lapse video of a new build on this
it's a it's a college and they're building a new dormitory but uh yeah hopefully it's going to be
really good so you will want to some of the raspberry pies are um and and it's look it's look at the
some of them are very flaky about rebooting uh will just reboot and some will stay up forever so
you want to check it relatively frequently to make sure that it is uh continuing to take photos
yeah it's um after this particular unit i've used it before so i've got a i'm kind of hoping
it's going to it's going to work fine but you know if i can get out of the office once a four
night you know have a trip i think it's about 50 mile up the road to go and check this raspberry pie
then you know the more time to go the better yeah absolutely i had one um if you're doing your most
trap and uh yeah which was funny what i got did your wife think it was funny now my wife uh my wife
is uh fine i just wants the mice out of the house but uh the uh the little package you know
those mice traps that come over and supposed to whack them they they just they just have come up
and taken all the stuff off that several times and even when i've like put it down with elastic bands
that they can't get it off and they just come off and nibble and nibble and nibble and nibble and nibble
and nibble away and then you go and you even breathe on the thing and it snaps on your finger
it's just they're amazing creatures so then i got some humane traps and i was able to trap one
with the rest of them got away now we're a cat quite often bring with mice in from the garden i
um i've got a brilliant mouse trap it's called Becky and she runs around she runs around with a nice
empty ice cream container tries to trap look oh dear there are live still yeah
oh yeah she's actually she's terrible she's a nightmare and um when it's harvesting because we're
surrounded by fields where we are yeah she brings all the live ones in and just drops them and then
just like just sits there and watches them running around my hallway but yeah so we've we've got
some top-aware and i say ice cream tubs but yeah filipanema are like on the setty with their feet up
hiding because there's a mouse running around the house and i'm desperately trying to catch it
oh you'll emancipate the filipet you should see what i have to do for spiders
we we don't like creepy corollys i will move on to bare metal programming for the raspberry pi part two
which was discussion on interrupt handling and using the x mode and protocol i just listened to
that today and if anyone was interested in learning a protocol how something is complicated as
i don't know which c2b works it would be do well to listen to the episode and as it's a good
introduction to basically what a protocol is and the absolute minimum that you need and again i
love this episode because it is he's going through the series of what you absolutely need to
do stuff on a piece of hardware is make the hardware do you don't really need operations
system of such you just need it to be able to do a few things so that's kind of what they're doing
in this episode keep them coming i say keep them coming so shall we move on to feedback comments
this month i guess so my cray had a clarification on his banana pie first impressions which was to
say that it sounded like he was from the raspberry pi one second please hold close important to us
yeah he's not from the raspberry pi dot org he's from raspberry vi dot org so that's the text to
speech thing speaking of text to speech for those of you who can do jazz when we i'm still looking
for somebody to help me out with the e-speak thing that we discussed last month so if there's
some code there i just need somebody to help me with the wrapping of it in to make a command line
program if you could that would be super thank you and on the episode uh
Michael time on there was um master master or two that was an excellent interview uh hearing
the business case of open sources was interesting uh Kevin O'Brien so those excellent interview as
you just said here again and uh pokie also thought it was a uh best interview so far in hpur
was a good interview in terms privacy and security we've already discussed the various different
aspects about that i think any reply to that would deserve the own episode to be honest
would you agree if you're putting forward a no you shouldn't do it this way then i think an
episode would be the best way to approach that and microe in response to bare metal programming
really enjoy the show and once some more of that i couldn't agree with him more and on space teams
we had the show was a thanks for the tape from pokie he's obviously easily pleased he does like
his gaming does pokie but i must say i downloaded that and i really wanted to find somebody to play
it because it's just cool that's come to what cap next year can we'll play we'll play together
yes or or you could come to foster them and we could play together nice two shy we had Johan v
with a comment on web fonts saying does platu have a blog post about this and no because platu does not
believe in having show notes apparently platu calling you out who is now on bitter
lot of lot of feedback on don't forget the refurbs by my bill x61 and love the speaker hack
very clever idea i would scare the live and day lights out of me and pokie again loved this
on episode 16 or 6 which was how to vnc by platu there was a comment by a
all right dodgy geyser indeed indeed yes ken palan about that vnc is not secure i don't know if
yeah we already covered this last last month so i put the show note in just so that in case platu
doesn't listen to community news and feedback on extra vehicular activity 1597 by steve
was by mr or mr's no name thanks steve enjoyed enjoyable and informative episode which was
so you're now going back into september yeah the episodes were for the comments were made in October
ah well thank you becky i'm not that bright apparently
west can we can't here can hello yes we had a comment by um gabriel um about day jargonfall they
that hacking doesn't necessarily have to involve lengthy effort or useful craft
but then again i think when you introduce the concept of the word hack everybody has their own view
of what it is so yeah they 500 and one electronics kit which was episode 1536 by uh c prompt still
gathering and be back and it was by plan 9 fan great episode and he just found out that his wife
owns this very kit but she uh and that she too was into electronics as you young adult what a woman
episode 1434 why i made an account free android by toujette and his comment is about the
that you need to be rooted to do some of the stuff and in his company you can't have
you can't run rooted devices and i think that's it is that it yep that's it
so anything else folks while i route out they stuff from the mail list
not for me Ken but then i need to go and cook dinner for us good idea what happened
plates are un salad very nice very nice very nice so i'm going to sign out now okay so
left you all thank you for letting me join in not a problem and uh looking forward to hearing your
future episodes back yeah now we've got the zoom i shall be interviewing like a ninja
not actually um becky and i've got an episode planned so we're just trying to work out the details
we're going to um i bought becky and new ssd for a laptop so we're going to do a philip and becky do
into uh without pictures okay there wasn't actually a lot on the um use report on you so it's just
about oil and uh about the community news come off so once you have it like that so let's uh
not sliver this any longer and say goodbye from me goodbye goodbye from me goodbye from me
join us now and share the soul swear you'll be free free and you'll be free
tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of hacker
park radio
good night well that singing could have curdled milk
you've been listening to hacker public radio at hackerpublicradio.org we are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows
was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast
and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is hacker public radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binwave.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise stated today's show is
released on the creative comments attribution share a live 3.0 license
