Episode: 1696
Title: HPR1696: HPR Community News for January 2015
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1696/hpr1696.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 07:52:48

---

This is HPR Episode 1696 entitled HPR Community News for January 2015 and is part of the series HPR
Community News. It is hosted by HPR Volunteers and is about 61 minutes long. The summary is
Live Community Recording from Fostom 2015. This episode of HPR is brought to you by
An Honest Host.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15,
that's HPR15. Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honest Host.com.
Hello everybody, you're welcome to Hacker Public Radio episode number something.
What's the episode number Dave?
Dave, have you not found the page?
No, how do I get this thing up?
I don't know.
What is this noise?
Well again, you're not going to be able to submit any episode if you don't know the number
and we'll probably get it if it's not on hate mail.
Okay, so this is HPR Community News 1696 for January 2014 and we are live here at Fostom 2015
and for those of you joining the show it's going to be a bit of a weird one because there's
currently eight or nine different recordings going on so we have to mash them together.
Um, we've been me on the train and the way home so let's go around and introduce ourselves
to my left is.
Hi, why is.
Follow by.
To be frank.
Follow by.
J-W-P.
Follow by.
Follow by.
Hi.
Follow by.
Hi, you.
You know, media.
Dave Morris.
And myself Ken Fallon.
As we do with the Community News it's a show that we do once a year, sorry once a month and we
review the shows that have been going on in the last month.
So as we don't have any projector here we're just going to have to wing it.
So actually the first eight shows were the Community News shows and those were actually there
was a big debate about whether the Community News was something that we should do or not.
And I guess at the time I didn't from looking at it from a point of view of many hosts we get
from the thing there was like 75 people who contributed audio to the show but gone into the
mumble room and I know for sure we didn't get 75 episodes from that.
On the other hand, HPR tends to be a very, a very, I don't know, independent thing where
everybody does their own shows and you can go to the whole year without any feeling of community.
So I think it's a really good thing for HPR to have one time of the year where we
where we do the banter stuff that we wouldn't otherwise get to do.
Tedda, the sound you're hearing is the sound of a projector.
So we had we did the 26 hour thing which is an amazing amount of work and mostly
covered by 5150 it has to be said who carried quite a lot of the show.
So also known as the man who does not require sleep?
Yes exactly or the man who should get to sleep. So the whole, although we welcomed in a lot of
various different islands, was there anything in the first show that the first few hours that
jumped out of people efficient in Ubuntu spins for hardware?
So this was a New Year's Eve thing where we do 24 hours of podcasts.
Yeah, somehow you let me forget about this. I didn't get an email from you,
the kids, and hey JOP, it's time, you know.
This is what the community mailing list is for.
I'm here by invited for next year.
Absolutely, Luke.
There's also this big thing where people try to launch fireworks
in order to let you know that it's probably that time of the year to go and
go and mumble it.
Exactly.
So that continued on and on and on.
I must say it was flying rich arrived. It was quite nice to hear guns, guns, and flying rich.
Well, I was surprised.
Yes, I don't remember that part. It was, yeah.
And they did the show notes on Eaterpad, which was brilliant actually because I mean,
I just needed to copy and paste and stuff. Jonathan Nady was in for a while talking about
the changes that they've done to the Sonar project.
What I really liked about that was the clock thing where they would keep time in between
blind jokes to take off.
I was like every three minutes pun and then talk time.
So Ken, what is the Sonar project?
Sonar project is a Linux distribution and people with accessibility for accessibility.
He did a Jonathan came on TILTS and did a talk about that several times.
Yeah. Okay, so that's the name that he came up with.
Yeah, Sonar.
It's a pretty good name actually.
And then we did our own community news in the middle of everything else, which was hilarious.
And then they kind of continued on.
The introduction to the Mexican wave and who was it?
It wasn't you, Dave. One of the guys had introduced me to the podcast,
thing a day or new thing a day or what's that podcast?
But he did, he had just done one on the Mexican wave, which is no one outside of America
as the Mexican wave, but inside of America, it's the wave.
So I was screaming that down the podcast.
In Mexico, it's also just the wave.
The wave, yeah.
So Clatu arrived, which was really nice to hear him back and he's back with a video show,
so I immediately unsubscribe because I listened to audio podcasts.
Oh, I didn't plan to don't worry about that.
We had more Clatu's here, some good podcasts and I don't know if people in listening to this
will be interested in. This is a good introductory podcast for people.
What we recommend is people do.
To get the first podcast is how I got into Linux, how I got into tech.
It's an easy one to do.
But this is also a good one to do what's on your podcast player because it's interesting for
other people. We're all podcast listeners, so it's an interesting one.
And it might be something that we could put up on the website to have an OPML for these.
Yeah, so basically we should push it into G-Potter, default configuration instead of the
twitch shows. So, um, Starship Titanic, I have, this is the beauty of the 24-hour show.
It's kind of a completely random what is talked about.
But as the discussion was in the mailing list, it is stuff that is of interest to hackers
by definition. And there is stuff in there about Dawson's Creek, somewhere.
Okay, it continues on episode seven, episode eight.
And there was no aftershow this year which surprised me and scared me at the same time due to
the fact that immediately we went from having lots of shows down to having no shows in the queue.
Thankfully, DAW stepped up and did this one, which was the Netseem Empowerment Federation,
which was basically a review of several different podcasts that he is affiliated with.
And some of them I knew about, more of them I didn't. So good, good example of shows there again.
And Lost and Bronx is back. And I don't know if you know this, but the reason I'm here today,
because of Lost and Bronx is episode on pub fading and stuff, which made me volunteer to
to do more on HPR. So I always find his shows enjoyable.
And this was a dramatic way of bringing them. I love this thing too.
A lot of work, this one was an interview per se, but his stuff is, you know, set the bar for audio
theater. 5150 with 5150 sheds of beer. And I love these, as you can probably tell from
being in Belgium and say the accent beers that they have here. The only downside of this
episode is you're never going to, because it's so local to where he lives, you're never going to
be able to get samples of the beer he talks about. And now that, to me, three has stopped his
source strong podcast. We have no, this is 5150 sheds of beer is the only place we're going to
hear podcasts about beer. And the open source software. So episode 1685, Libreoff has calc styles and
templates. Glad he got onto this one, because this is a baya huka. Glad he got to this, because
this was one of the ones that I had requested. You do. Question 10, how do you get your picture like that?
Well, I'm so glad you asked. If you use the new upload form, all you need to do is submit a show,
and during the show submission, you can either pick an email address that's got a hash
up with gravatar. So gravatar's WordPress project ish, and they make a hash of your email address
and the store that up there. And then if you submit that hash to them, they will return the JPEG
image associated with that. Or if you don't like that, you can send us 80 by 80 avatar image and
will add it to the server itself. And so that we're not leaking your information out, we run a
cron job every hour to go and update, to see if updates are coming to the gravatar images. So that's
people going to HBR website can be assured that, well, assured, gravatar I can get the information,
they're just getting it from a central location and not, it's not monitoring your, your traffic.
If you are a 1686, I'm still continuing to want to do this, switch the numbers thing that I do
with Dutch numbers, but in the last one first. And this is by Steve Bickel, and this had to be the
coolest thing that I've ever seen, is they making a 3D hand for amputees and such. As he says,
there are, it's not just as simple as 3D printing a hand and finding somebody who wants a hand,
it's a medical device, so there are restrictions involved in a potter. I think the goal of the project
is absolutely excellent. So I filed that under accessibility. Then we had, thanks,
with podcast recommendations, a list of podcasts. Again, another example of
an ICC show to do. Well, not meaning to belittle Taj's work, but it was, as he says himself,
it was a good one to get out there. Some of them I hadn't heard about, and especially this
Vedic mythology, who made the point that quite a lot living in the West, we only hear Western myths.
So that's a podcast on more Eastern mythology, which would be kind of cool.
Ron, some useful tools for compiling software. And this was a cool one on how to hack a,
how to build a Debian package using, well, not the official Debian support in a way, but a way
that is really easy to use. And especially if you're doing something for yourself, that you can
package stuff for yourself and carry around a deb with all your tools and utilities.
So it's actually quite a cool way. Stop me, anybody, if you have any comments on this, but
then we have the Linux Voice magazine that I'll camp, and you'll be hearing later on in the
episodes that are coming out this week, where I'm interviewing the Libra Graphics magazine,
who are a magazine, who produce a graphics magazine, using entirely free and open-source software.
So Linux Voice magazine might do well to contact that project. No, I'm only slagging them off,
they get slagged quite a lot. So I think that's the last of the upcomp interviews from Benny and
and a big thank you to those guys that really did a phenomenal job over there as I'll camp
very professional. And unfortunately, you're going to put what you'll be experiencing the rest of
this week from me to Shane. And then we have a mini series from Plateau, a one-on-one on breadboard.
Believe it or not, this would have been very useful to me about a year ago, because I had no idea how
breadboards are used. If you're not going to the show notes for a lot of these, or you have the
ability, the faculties to be able to go to the show notes, there's pictures in here, so it shows
you how a breadboard works, which is a good introduction to electronics. And I'd like very much
like people to start submitting shows about basics of electronics and stuff like that. So if you're
an electrical engineer, or have a background in electrical engineering, that is a budding hobby,
and we've got lots of requests for people to do shows on that sort of thing. And then the second
in that episode was basically how you wire up an art. We know when you do cool stuff, you turn
on a license, it turns on the server, and the code doesn't get in included in that.
And 50 and 50 with another beer episode, although they should have been split off into two episodes,
and he's talking about Raspberry Pi music streaming box, which we'll tell us about that
seen as you're here. Okay, I play around with, I got me a Raspberry Pi finally, and I was looking
for a couple of projects to play with, and one of the things I was not pleased with, we have a
sonos at home, a Spotify account, and the interface on the sonos is when it comes to Spotify as
Rocklepool. So I thought, you know, I have a set of extra stickers up in on the second floor.
Why not take a look at a Raspberry Pi, and perhaps might be able to, I might be able to enlarge that
Spotify-friendly capability. So I looked around, and I found a Dutch project by a multiple
deck called Pi Music Box, which is basically a Raspberry Pi distro that turns it into
a media center. It has a web-based interface. It plays basically live streams. You can hook it
up to your NAS, it will index all of your music files there. You can throw a URL at it, like, for
example, an HBR episode. Just give it the link to the MP3. It will start streaming. It has a very
good interface with Spotify. It has a good interface with Google Play. So it actually is sonos
on steroids, and you can hook up a USB, some card slash speaker set, or an analog one. The
interface is HTML5, and it's also completely mobile-friendly, so when you approach it with your
smartphone or any portable device, you get a nice compact interface. Very well-designed project.
You download the ISO, the image, you unpack it, you put the card back into your PC, you just add
your Spotify and Google Play details. So the any file, pop it back in, boot it back up, done.
Wow, cool. And he was hookin' it up to one of those 1950s restaurant things that
I wanted to talk about that. I've got a, when I visit a Dave's country, there used to be,
when you go to London, there's this place where you go through these flea markets,
Camden or Camden Market. Camden Market. Yeah. And so I went to the Camden Market. I bought
back in the 80s, this radio, and it has these really stringed batteries in it, right? And it's just
a basic FMAM thing, but it looked really like 1940s or something, right? And a little portable thing.
And what I wanted to do was I wanted to do exactly what you did, except I wanted to maybe put a split
in that so that it's a radio, and then it's big enough for the pie, maybe have the pie to play
through that, right? So I can, that's why I don't have to listen to the German radio on.
That's funny. You mentioned that because one of the things that they're working on in the pie
music box is to make the coolest mod. So what they do is they take old radios, you know,
the ones with the transistor lamps in them, they just chuck out the inside, put a pie inside
with music box, and then hook it up to the amplifier by, they split off the five volts for the pie
off the amplifier in the radio. They just put the on-log signal out of the music box to the radio.
And basically, we'll hack the radio. And they have pictures on their website about people who've
done this to old cassette recorders, which they just, you know, threw out part of the innards,
shoved in the pie, took the power supply in the amplifier that was in there, and made a very modern
looking radio out of that. They also have these beautiful 50s transistor radios where they
basically use the battery space or whatever space was left to build an pie and then turn it into a
device. So I saw one where they had a radio on, you know, you have to tune the dials.
And one of the dials was back in time. So you, for the left, you go up music from the internet
archive. So the turkeys are over here and as you move the forward, they come up to the 60s.
On all those just, the guy did the first folder. He's just having me here.
It's actually pretty easy. If you can splice off the five volts on in your radio somewhere,
not an electrician, but I think you can do that. And you can just, you know, either go straight to
the amplifier or straight to the speakers. I saw one where you drove the little hole in the back
of the radio, right? And you bought the USB, bought a USB port up. And so you just plugged in the
USB and ran the pie that way. Out of the wall. Out of the wall or used a USB, you can buy a pie
battery pack that runs off for double A batteries. Because I would be adverse, I would completely
against ripping out valves and tubes from all radios. It's so hard to get now.
What these tubes and stuff is that it makes a really nice sound. I'm going death now,
but I mean, it really sounds really neat. You know, if you have a tube amplifier and
two stuff, it's wife and girlfriend friendly. I mean, if I drag yet another very geeky project
into my kitchen, I have a very geeky wife. She goes like, okay, what Frankenstein contraption is
this again? As opposed to where I come down with a 950s radio, they go like, there, that's Spotify.
That's wife and girlfriend friendly. I'm boyfriend friendly. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you.
All right. I think the brand is also that you have to set it up and it just has to work.
Oh, yes. Well, this is spouse friendly, but which is why, you know, if you keep
if you add us as functionality to a regular radio, then you can always fall back to the,
you know, whatever is pulling on the regular airways. I remember that when you say that it
has to work. When I moved in with my wife, my then girlfriend, I was tinkering around and I had
a Windows 2000 machine running with two network carts as the home router. And I wanted to upgrade it.
So my first experience in migrating a server was at two o'clock at night because my wife went
to bed because otherwise they'd take the internet down in the house for the entire evening.
I had very high demanding users with very high SLAs. And that's where you learn.
Sorry. I mean, coming back to episode 1693, first time host Jerry with fun with the DD command.
I don't know if you listen to this episode. It was awesome. You have you make a partition on an SD card.
You leave a little bit of space on the outside and you're right directly to that over there.
So for the paranoid among us, you encrypt your stuff. You put it into a TGZ file and you DD
it outside of the file system. It was excellent. It's not. It's not going to stop like people with
probes or anything. Yeah, with the DD command exactly. But yeah, it's going to be to know exactly
where to start. And that's going to be quite a challenge. Yeah, exactly. But it was a nice one.
It was a pretty good. And then we had a lame episode the following day by Dave Morris.
I was screaming, Dave, during this. Why don't you just use XML Starless and download?
Now this is again with all Dave's shows. There are full shunals,
which let's go and have a look because he breaks down the script line by line explaining exactly
what it's going to do. And as somebody who has used Pearl every day, I do refer to Dave's
source code a lot to find out how to properly code. So thanks Dave for that episode.
And how do I get back?
So, but that's a strong reading picture of the day. You know, one thing we forgot to do was actually
include a picture. Would have been there. Would have been a nice one to do. That's the challenge,
I mean, you can just go and implement the script. Yeah, what's the point?
Actually, the problem. And I don't know if people are aware of it again, but we're on to episode
1659, who goes episode on Libra Office series. I don't know if you're familiar, but you can
you can under the RSS feed, there are the options to download by host and download by series.
So this is one that if you wanted to get the whole Libra Office series and put it on to a DVD
and give it to somebody, you can just add some parameters to the XML feed and pull that whole
finger, which is a. Again, a question about this guy. So, Ahuka. Yes. Ahuka. Ahuka.
I mean, he's so deep in that. Did he set up a company and like an open source company to do
like Libra Office training or consulting or something? No, but he should do.
I mean, it's just you're right. Oh, I was just like, you know, you show up, but you know,
he got a community college and, and you know, give a class about Libra Office. I think he was a
lecturer. Yeah, he definitely is. He definitely is. That is also a definite professional.
Not only does he have the audio source, you know, if you click on his on the link, the very last
link of every episode and the whole thing is right there. It's the whole text of us. He's got the
textbook stone and each of those links links to the ganked chart template. So you can download
the whole thing yourself. I'm sensing some retirement or something here. I don't because
because that's a lot of work. I'm sensing people dedicated to to passing knowledge, which is exactly
what HPR is all about. It's a really good series. I mean, I mean, I started listening to this. I
didn't have a clue that you can do actually do some proper editing within a Libra Office.
I just interviewed the Libra Office guys today. They should be screaming when I listen to this.
This is what you need. I mean, what they should be doing is putting DVD sets available
of this stuff with the show and what's associated with it and selling it up upstairs and
giving this guy some credit for it. Yeah. Does it? Yeah, it's it again, it's and his stuff is
extremely high quality. What was interesting, I was listening to this episode on the train because
it was just released on Friday and you know, when he started the series, Libra Office has jumped
to two major versions since from when he started to right now and you know, he's keeping his
and it's it's not limited to Libra Office. If you take this and go to Microsoft Excel,
the same things are going to work. It's the same sort of concept. He's not teaching you,
okay, he's teaching the Libra Office, but he's teaching you how to use the spreadsheet.
He's teaching you how to use the word processor. And I know sometimes in the community
news, we tend to skip over the Libra Office series because he does them so often. And you know,
there's only so much upholst that you can dump onto a series, but it's nice to cover it here,
I think. So, doubles that for this week. So if we do the magic number here and change
1695 to 1696, we get the show notes for this episode. Dave, do you want to do the comments?
And you know why Dave? Because Dave has taken over doing the comments, which was one of the things
that I used to annoy me quite a lot. It's the comments of the systems. But we've ordered them
in reverse order because that's the way that we are showing them if you get the comment feed,
or if you look in the main comment page. But when you're reading this, it seems slightly logical
to just have the latest one at the top. I don't know, everybody else feels about it anyway.
Mario, the comment feed here, workaround in the Unison sessions was,
Unison is a good way to do our thinking or sinking between two devices. But there's bugs in the
latest one that it just fails. So I found a workaround that was installed on older versions,
set up your profiles. That doesn't work. But then you can close that one and open up the newer version,
open the profiles, and then you can say, yes, number is to identify where you are on the internet.
Very informative, I didn't even read that comment.
It's a pleasure, I'd like to hear.
Torion, Dave. Then, to like to also comment it on Benny's show that he did with the
McNalloo about trying out a Slackware. It's obviously being a great Slackware proponent.
Slackbills as well. Yeah, that was good. He's a great show host.
Then, several comments on Hooker's show on pivot tables. Steve Bick or who commented
he couldn't quite get the example to work, I think. And unfortunately, he'd put it on the wrong
show. He meant to put it on 1655. No, hang on, did he put... I don't know. Anyway, did we manage to solve this?
No, we were trying to actually try to move his comment from one show to another and
screwed the comment system up totally. And then, to go and repair it in a panic. In your depends,
I've done exactly the same thing. It's just not a very forgiving system.
No, it's high on my list of stuff to tackle now that the upload thing is...
I think, anyway, we're saying that he had difficulty with running
open samples, but I think that because Kevin O'Brien records these things way in advance,
maybe, as you said, some of the versions have moved on, and maybe he was quite out a little bit.
So, I don't know quite what the outcome was eventually on whether we got it to work. Have you tried
the example yourself at all? I've not done it. I've not actually tried these.
No, I've used pivot tables myself, so I just did it. As I said before during that episode,
the pivot tables was one last holdout in the company that I was working on,
who was using Lotus123, and we were migrating to Excel, and when I showed her how to use pivot
tables, that was the thing that switched. Yeah, it's a powerful thing. And as we speak,
some poor system is probably trying to convert her to LibreOffice. Look, pivot tables work, okay,
that was how to start a blog. It was about a philosophical show why you would want to start
a blog as opposed to... I think what we're seeing now in that list is a comment on a comment.
Yeah, because we're just seeing the things that have occurred. Should we go up to the comments?
Drill down into... There's this P for...
Tracking the comments is actually more difficult than you think it would be. Also the
latest version. Well, the one in the show notes is ordered by show number.
Well, how about we just do it this way? These are done in order of timing of comment.
Yes, it's difficult to track. So, timely information about Epicanos. What was this about?
What do you venture to sort of Pogesville? Epican is like last in Bronx's
types of shows. I think he can tell from his style of shows he would like to get into that sort
of arrogant and that's when he's sick to effectively what he's come into saying. He wants to be
be doing another lost in Bronx style of... I was thinking about this. I wonder if you had like a
a matrix of sound effects and stuff, you know, you could do that. And the door opened, press the button
and do something a sort of live theater, a mumble or something if you had a small script. That would
be something I really love to see, you know, that you get tuned in. If anyone wanted to do that,
put it together. It would also make great comedy, I mean, you know, reading a story and somebody
would do the audio... Exactly. It's something that can be done quite fast. Exactly.
Renault de Winter Soundboard being built on a EK-0 within half an hour.
Yeah, yeah. It was about by being around. It was asleep at the moment.
But, yeah, if somebody wanted to put a script together and I had to have a thought for a script,
but I was thinking we could maybe get some very different people to play various different parts
and we'll be hilarious. And then the men's won't work, of course. Okay, Mike Ray, 3v3, what's this?
This was coming on voltage, I guess. That was first brainboard show. Yeah, that was confused
by the notation 3v3, meaning 3.3 volts, which if you've never seen that before, you think,
what? Yeah, why is that? And Mike is pointing out that that is the convention you find it.
That's in relation to all sorts of other measurements, to resistance.
Yeah, see it on 4.4 K7, yeah, it's also in there for resistors.
That struck me out the first time I had no idea what that was about. Yeah, me too, I've been there as well.
So it's quite quite helpful out comment. And obviously Mike's wanted to move into this area too,
moving forward to that. Yeah.
That's another comment on Plato's show from TCUC, I don't know how you say his handle that.
He's studying electronics and he's enjoying this particular one.
Good, and if he wants or she wants to do some shows and basic electronics as the goal,
that's feel free to do that.
Maloo pops up and makes a comment on if somebody wants to do some basic electronics, they can cut the
cable on my radio, you put the pie. Yeah. How do I make blue smoke?
Yeah. So that was another column from Maloo, an Archer 52, also was commenting on
Arduino 101, enjoyable show. And Jerry, oh, Sibola, Jerry.
It wouldn't be a HPR community news unless I butchered somebody's name. So,
TD fun. Again, the same effect I didn't, I wasn't aware of this. Well, I kind of knew
you could do it, but until somebody says, gives you an example of how it is, it's pretty cool.
And again, an incandence, incandence. And I'd just like to point out to all the commenters
who haven't submitted the show. Now, I know you listened to HPR. No pressure, just saying.
We are watching you. We are expecting with better breath for your show to be uploaded.
For those people who have been trying to upload a show this week and you're getting this
or a message, which is the upload form is Give Shows Unpressed Contribute. Do you just go to
upload? What could be simpler? Yeah. You get there. Yeah. And you get there. I watch this.
Watch this. Watch how it finds. So all you have to do is simply pick it any day that's available
and then you get detected. Now, in my time, my four years of maintaining HPR, there has never
been a week where we've had two shows, well, two shows from the same host that's possible.
But there's never been a time where more than five people have uploaded a show at the same time.
I have a limit of 150 uploads per day on the thingy. And surprise, surprise, when we put up Hacker
Public Radio sticker at FostM 2014, an event surrounded by hackers that Limus has
been exceeded somewhat. So I'm leaving this off until the dust settles for a hog.
I know Mr. X has emailed me to say he could not upload a show. Sorry about that. But there is
a very good reason for that. And that is my PHP is not... Didn't 5150 had some trouble uploading
shows last week when somebody told him to get a real browser?
I never do that. Yes, the Limus was at five shows then and I uploaded it. I changed the limit to
150 to allow for browsing scanning search engines. I don't know what. So suffice to say that we're
getting these resources by the kindness of the community that have been provided by Josh and
AnonymousToles.com. That's AnonymousToles.com. 15% discount for all HBR listeners on shared VPSes.
On shared hosting, sorry, not shared VPSes, shared hosting. So we're getting out of the goodness
of this guy's pocket. So I don't want to stress the system out needlessly. We already get about
four or five thousand attempts a day or more. If only those were shows.
Okay, I've only those were shows. Anyway, they mail archive.
So this month we've had requested topics suggested and some of the requesters was about where
or see scripts should go on Linux distributions. The requester. Handsome gentleman.
Right, I've I've got a new laptop and every single time they, you know, the the the the bash history
and the thingies are all all these settings. I'd like to have them in one place and put them into
Git so that I can download them and send them to the workplace and will be nice to have a
what, nice to know what that proper place would be to put those.
Fost and Conservancy event, which a few of us went to. That was on there. And then there
was quite a large show discussion about the HBR community news. So our the HBR 24 hour show,
which I guess from reading us. There was a lot of people liked the concept,
but I think it probably would be better just to narrow it down to a short term amount of time.
Yes, start the streaming us when the first time zone was in, but having to have people there.
24 7 is a bit of a problem because the the benefit of having the new year show is that there
is a period in that 24 hours that somebody is free that they can come on and say hello,
but the day before somebody needs to be there to start it off and as it happened the first time
we went to a 26 24 hour show, it was on a weekend. So people were available because it was
Saturday and then the following year I happened to be at home. So I was available, but this year
meant I had a project that I had to finish and work so I was there until four o'clock. So
yeah, already six hours of the show had gone past and by the time I got home there was already
12 hours of the show going. So 51 50 ended up on the show for considerable amount of time sort of
carrying it until then you know the evening strikes and then everybody's on and it's able to
carry itself until the next morning and then the next morning I don't mind coming on and
carrying it until the 12 hours that's not a problem. But from the point of view with my with my
Ken getting shows for HBR hat as I said before, it's I don't know is that that useful,
does it bring that many host, does it bring that many shows probably not, but as a way of just having
a good time and chilling out with podcasters and people that you've been listening to all year,
how you can't beat it with a sledgehammer. It's kind of like the IRC channel, but then in a
different way. I mean, I only have IRC channel every day because that's one of the places I go,
those are my hangouts and it's always nice to have that in mumble, which I was thinking,
I mean, is this channel open all the time? Well, just do we do this for new years?
Yeah, it's often the mobile channel is available for HBR. It's provided by to the community,
not only HBR, but loads of other podcasts have got rooms up there. And then the HBR show channel,
anybody we do, the community news on there, we just log on, jump onto the channel and bad and big.
I have no problem putting the stream up, so the stream's out of there, but it's...
Can you record that? Yeah, just everybody presses, you go into the room and you press the red button,
job done. It's not always built in records. It's... Okay, it's actually... Yeah, sometimes I think it's
easier to do that than just record with my laptop. As a beginner mumble question.
Yep. Okay, two questions. Does it have a Windows client? Yes. And can it go through a proxy?
So, if you're like, you're behind a corporate proxy, can the mumble client go through?
Skype can now, because Skype is Microsoft, and Microsoft figured out how to go through the proxy automatically.
Right? So, you need to do forward-forwarding. Yeah, yeah. So, you have to put the configuration.
What kind of proxy are you talking about? Well, you know, you go to Word. A socks proxy.
Yeah, there are socks, Brooksies, there are HTTP, Brooksies, there's... Yeah, there's a lot of Brooksies.
It might work. There's a list of four that you have to add to the BashRC file in your Linux to make
it work. Right? Yeah, yeah. HTTP, FTP, addressing capital letters and smaller letters.
Yeah, and so you put that in the BashRC and then everything works. And then you have to go to
AppGit and change the AppGit and then it would work behind the proxy. Do you have SSH?
Yeah, of course. I can SSH. Okay, why don't you use Shubble? Yeah. Shubble is great.
Are you kidding me? You can just file everything through one SSH and it eats everything.
It eats... I do it as well, yeah. It eats DNS and eats everything. I use my work traffic
goes right on the network. And when I type in an IP that is related to my own network,
it just sets up a side-to-side VPN proxy. It's a socks 5. It shoves everything through.
And you just... You have some bandwidth overhead, but...
You won't matter with mumble. But yeah, it might be a problem for your years case because if you're
at any work, I guess you need to use the reason why there is a proxy. So if you set up shuttle,
the mumble time might work, but you other work-rear stuff might stop working.
Yeah, but if you only filter it, so it's all only that verticals through them.
I just set up a filter that says, you know, everything to the 172,
shut that through the mumble and all the rest directly to the network. And it even does DNS.
And we know that it's a fixed IP address, so you get the IP address, you type in this.
And your name is?
So, hey, my name is Imian Kleiner. I did a show, I think, more than half a year ago maybe.
What's that? I was talking about my hacker space.
Well, any hacker space in the city where I lived in the Netherlands, in the Netherlands.
So this is the first time I'm attending here.
Hey, welcome.
Okay, let's meet you.
May I ask, which hacker space?
Sorry, I said hacker space. I'm in Linux Unity.
Okay.
We're going to start a hacker space as well, but that kind of gets expensive, doesn't it?
Yeah, well, it's more the finding a room or a place.
We visit a couple of things, but it has about 400, 500 years a month,
which when you start and you only have six, seven guys, it's a little bit different.
And you also have to factor in insurance and stuff like that as well.
For a blue smoke creation.
Yeah, exactly.
And the thing is, there are some rather active, let's say, 30 kilometers,
flight and text that I know of or so.
We're kind of struggling to find a critical mass to get started now, especially.
Okay, so random data is still going on.
That's what I heard.
Cool.
So, that folks pretty much is our standard bug standard HPR community news.
So, if there's anything else you want to talk about,
free to do so now, for ever hold your piece.
Actually, don't do that.
For a quarter show.
No, no, I didn't say that.
Yes, apologies to people who were trying to upload shows,
but this upload form really, really does make my life a lot easier for people.
You need a real browser.
Well, no, you can do it with...
All right, what I did was it's a HTML5.
There are HTML5 required fields on there.
So,
that doesn't matter.
There's an asterisk beside it.
You can either use a HTML5 browser or use your brain.
So, your choice.
The brain part will require that you look at the asterisk,
as beside the required fields.
Is there any saying that there's people that work without the console?
Not at all.
I've heard it, yes.
So, you've got plenty of people who work without the brain at it.
That's it's it's...
And then, you know, I get people who are emailing me with issues.
Why can't they fill out a form?
And then, oops, cause line 42 on my script doesn't work properly.
Sorry about that.
It's a work in progress, guys.
It's a work in progress.
But once we get that done,
then we can work on the parsing engine side at the back
and then sort of fully automated.
And I even have...
have things where I'm going to take the audio and do a pictogram of it.
And that way you can see visually,
we'll go to a mail list of people who are trusted to
authenticate shows to the network.
Not that we monitor or check the shows,
we just check to make sure they enter an outro in
and we don't do any moderation,
but we want to make sure that it's not spam.
So, we'll be sending around a speaks or an opus file
to whoever wants to volunteer to take the text box.
Yeah, this is approved.
And when you upload the idea behind the GPG key is
if you submit a few shows then at a particular point in time,
you will get the email yourself and you can self-automate it.
That's...
Yeah, this is what we've received.
You know, do you see the intro and outro
and press OK and then you can also approve your own shows.
Taking more work from me.
And now that I've given Dave the comments thing
that I can basically step back and...
Are there any future plans to replace the speaks voice
in the beginning of the show with something
that doesn't sound like Stephen Hawking on steroids?
Yeah.
I mean, Ken, why don't you get like...
What do you want to record like something to make it sound a little better?
Because there are...
last year there were 260 shows guys.
It has to be automated.
But Dave, it's like a holiday job.
260 shows, one of which has been recorded now
and will need to be posted in the next...
edited post-it in the next few hours at the same time
of which I'm on a train going home, you know.
For this show, then have Kai do that.
Yeah, that's true.
With the speaker, yeah.
But Kai is busy installing Kabuntu on his laptop there at the back.
Yeah?
Yeah, that's cool.
I'm fast down, let's do some eyes out.
Well, one of the...
Was Ray has sent me a new voice text-to-speech engine
that works on Ubuntu, but I haven't had the time
to get it working on Fedori yet.
Yeah, I'm completely open to changing that
and completely open to reducing the amount of waffle
that's in that down.
Waffle?
What's that word?
Speel, blah, blah, blah, shortness, reduce it down.
So I'm thinking now that I will have the
host's name, saying their own host's name at the beginning
and then just text-to-speech of the summary and not the title.
So that's it.
HBR episode blah, blah, blah.
Ken follow.
Hello, my name is Ken the follow,
and whatever the audio webfiles.
And then the text-to-speech for just the summary
because you see on a lot of the shows,
it's the summary is a repeat,
or for the most part is a repeat of the title
with a little bit more...
A little bit more waffle association with it.
On your listeners, Ken is seriously working on Midori.
So for example, the title of episode 1659,
now it just happens to be the last episode,
is LibreOffice Calc, the object model and using templates
and the summary is understanding the object model
and how templates work.
So it's...
The summary is enough, I think, perhaps.
And the other things that is annoying people about HBR
are things that we can improve.
How do we get more people submission shows?
That's the question.
Because everybody here is more or less a podcaster.
Wow.
More of this.
Whether there's no author at all.
Perhaps a show about organizing the workflow,
providing submitting a show,
because I know I have two or three shows
which I've created,
but there are somewhere on my file system
and I have a really big problem finding them back.
Did you dig them outside of your partition?
No, but the partition is for terabytes big,
so there's a lot of proof to search through.
The one thing I talk to Katie Murray,
who is a co-host I used to work with on the AGP and who regularly
works with me on Nightwise.com.
Keith is as a great voice.
I mean, somebody who really wants to,
you know, push things to perfection before he publishes them.
Yeah.
And then you get to the stage where you keep editing it down
or keep trying it again,
or even before that creep scripting it before you record.
One of the things I always try to tell Keith
and what might be a tip for any other listener is just do one.
And you know, just do one and submit it,
but don't try to wiggle it down to perfection
because it will just stay there on your hard drive.
It will become stale and you won't upload it.
I mean, 60% of the crap that I do,
I just record and basically edit down a little bit and upload
because I know that when I keep working on it until I've got it perfect,
I'll be so sick and tired of hearing it.
It's not exciting for me anymore or I'll just leave it there
and it will wither away.
So for me, when I got to know Hacker Public Radio,
I love those shows that had audio quality
that was questionable or like it was recorded in the wrong side
of the lunar module or something,
but it was the content that it's all about.
I know that especially in modern day podcasting
with the Leal Reports,
who have equipment that we can't afford people.
And people to do it.
And people to do it.
Yeah, they sound really professional,
but I've done radio for a couple of years
and podcasting isn't radio.
And if we turn podcasting into radio,
it will lose its soul.
It are conversations like this
with, well, questionable quality.
Well, thank you very much.
But it are conversations like this.
You know, this is not filtered through 17 modules
of rack space equipment to sound just great
on some kind of German Nazi-hile microphone,
but it doesn't matter.
I mean, just simply show.
There's people though that make their own studio,
right, that have a room in their house at the studio.
Like, I listen to the mediocre show,
right, and these guys, the three or four of them
that do the show, they have a studio
in Westchester P.A.
and they go there and they do it.
The guys that do Jupiter Broadcasting now,
they have a separate office that they drive to
to do Jupiter Broadcasting now.
This Leal Report, he has it like a building building
that he does it in.
And so, you know, more powerful.
So, you have that too, but then you have,
you like that have some microphone in me,
I use my Windows phone.
So that, when you get a show from me,
I'm Windows phoning it, right?
That's the best quality device that I've found so far.
I did my first two scenes of Nightwise.com in the car.
David's with the Sansa clip on his head.
I'm like, I just cried when that episode got a podcast stop.
Really?
That was the great, I mean, one of the-
With the three by five cards, yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
I remember.
And he did an episode in HBO,
where he crashed the car.
Yeah, actually.
Oh, that was the lady ran into him
because he was going to podcast,
and I remember the lady ran into him
while he was doing a podcast.
Podcast, yeah.
I had to pause.
But those are the things that make
that differentiate us as podcasters.
As actual people from radio hosts
who are just disembodied voices doing something.
And I've been with podcasting from the days
where Adam Curry was still with his wife.
So go figure.
That was a long time ago.
And I remember those shows where he would walk around
with his little microphone on his jacket.
He would walk around and you would hear the sounds
of the street and there was ambient noise and everything.
But that was imaginative.
There is nothing imaginative on a disembodied voice
with no real personality or quirks behind it.
That's just, you know, that's just NPR.
That's great for NPR,
but NPR is in podcasting and vice versa.
And I'll just in support of that.
If people, you know, look at the download stats,
which I need to rerun again.
I know I promised this and I will get to it.
The ones that the shows that are downloaded,
the most are the quirky ones.
The swimming in France one has as much downloads
as the new year shows.
Like a guy with an MP3 player saw him to his hood
and then just went swimming down a river in France.
And it is an awesome episode.
It's just so relaxing listening to that show.
That what we do, we do theater of the mind
and the power of imaginations from our listeners
is so something that we should tap into.
And it is because your show is quirky
and you might hear your kit or your cat on the background
or you're doing it in your car
or you're wrestling your microphone
as you're trying to do it.
I mean, that is what makes you human
and podcasting is about relating to other humans.
And if it's about purely about the voice, the quality
and the content,
I don't know that's that especially HPR and HPR.
That's not really what we're about.
Audio, any audio is better than no audio folks.
And if you have a first version of your podcast,
what you do is you upload it to the HPR website
which will turn it into a podcast.
And if you boot good far enough in advance
and it's there,
I'm more than happy to take an edited version
after the fact.
But if you're happy with the version
that you've uploaded, that one will get released.
So that will stop you procrastinating.
Do the first edit, upload that
and then we have something.
And if you want to send in an updated version afterwards,
we can do that as well.
I don't know how long more we're going to be here.
I think we outstate our welcome.
Well, there's nobody coming in.
Can you try to change this out?
Yeah, never.
We can take a look outside whether there are people
or there are Belgians that just wait patiently and be aggravated.
Oh, folks, not the end of the evening,
but it's all the way up time for it's night.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast
and click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is,
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the infonomicum computer club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself,
unless otherwise status.
Today's show is released on the Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
