Episode: 1086
Title: HPR1086: HPR Community News September 2012
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1086/hpr1086.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 18:43:59

---

.
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and I'm today I'm also joined by
It's Dave Dave Morris. How you doing Dave? I was like I'm good. Thank you. Very good
Hopefully my sand is a bit more rodible this week
Yeah
Well, let's get into it
I need to pick another key for push to talk because I'm holding the microphone one hand and I
Have my right push my push to talk of a right key anyways
So we've had three new homes this week this month. Sorry
We had the air staff of eerie-looking productions who are a
Radio show actually that run they have their own podcast, but they
put a special show together for HPR and
Then we had project kujit and it's actually de Santos all of us joining this month
So thank you very much for them and welcome to hey hacker
So let's just go through the episodes as we normally do
We had community news last week where we were joined by Becky and Phil and of course Dave
Becky and Phil are a bar camp like pool and we don't very much
Let's let's palm just putting on a great show over there by all the tweets. I'm looking at the day after we had
Debra and them with pickle and
We have a few more of those in the queue. So I have no idea when they're going to get out
That's that's a hell of a show two hours forty five minutes. I think wasn't it?
Still let's say
It was quite something. Yeah, enjoy that. Oh, yeah, yeah, I like those shows a bit off the wall
And the next day was the area staff the air staff of airy looking production and it was reformers in creative content for non computing settings
I like their production values actually. I thought they
Well, you can tell they they've done that sort of thing before sounded really good. Yeah, absolutely. I couldn't agree with you more
Yeah, they've done a lot of stuff. Hopefully they don't think they continue to produce stuff for HPR
And they're the idea of what we're doing actually since I think good idea. I've been toying with the idea of
Like I have obviously all the HPR shows and stuff here on my nose as a backup
I was thinking of
Rebro casting them here on the local in the neighborhood and that sort of thing. Oh, great idea
Yeah, I'd be well, I don't know what the legality of it is
I just got a one of those wireless FM transmitters and when it was ordering it was like
Warning this may not be legal in your jurisdiction type thing. So
We'll see how it goes, but I was thinking just as a bite by you know as we already had a show on Rivendell
Here and with a little FM transmitter, you know for the local area you could
Definitely have the kids in the neighborhood like put together a radio show or something, you know
Yeah, absolutely. Yes
And the following day we had a bit of a win here actually from Ross winter
um
He was as a
Talk with Eric as Raymond at the central fully lug and
We just
Things just kind of worked out when we were able to put the the show together
Um, so it was a very very interesting talk. What do you think of I thought that was I was excellent
Yes, I've never heard Eric Raymond speak before and I've read his very various things, you know
Cathedral and bizarre and those types of things
He has been a very
Very important person in the in the Linux world and the open source world and so forth for a long time as me
Um, never heard him before but I was very impressed with that too. Yeah, I definitely think he's had
Uh, you know, he's the pendulum was a song a little bit to the
RMS camp. I think he's had a lot of offer and I was very impressed by the talk was in generally was quite technical quite interesting
just generally not what I expected at all to be honest
No, no, he was he was fielding a lot of questions from the audience there wasn't he and uh, I thought doing fantastic
I wish I could have been it that I talked like that. It was amazing. Yeah exactly. That's exactly what I think
They hit the nail in the head that's exactly what the HBOR audience at least I like about HBOR is getting
To hear these talks that you otherwise wouldn't you know
Absolutely. Yeah, you know, it makes you feel like you're part of the log group and central valley for a day
You know, you just
Visitors and joint ends who are really really do appreciate that so
You know, if you've got a log or if that you get that opportunity as well
Bring along your recorder and uh and submit that sort of thing to HBOR. That's exactly
That's exactly the sort of thing we love to hear
Yeah, all righty moving on we had
Deep geek powering away with talking to me news again and then
The following Monday we had how to put cable cord my setup
Proctumbub has a very very interesting video there on
On his setup it was basically the audio of the youtube video
But I don't know how much people missed because I had watched the video before I had listened to the audio as I do
Um, did you watch the video at all Dave? I did actually yes. Yes. I thought since there was video
I really needed to see it
So yeah, I was I thought it was great actually. I really envied me setup looked looked amazing
It's uh, I could have done with a few more details about how he built it and configuration and stuff
But you know, that was just me. I want to know everything and these sorts of talks
I thought you covered up pretty much in the previous episodes or
Right, right, something I've maybe maybe not joined them in my in my head enough to to understand fully
How he's put that together. I must I must go back and listen
Yeah, what I'll what I'm again
We'll probably veer off now into a little bit of what the plans are for the um
What I'd like to do is you know have one of those hashtag things um where
We would be simpler to find his
Previous shows and kind of group them together make it more it is possible on the current site to do a
But uh, I want to make that a little bit cooler if possible
Yeah, yeah, because your other alternative is to click on the on the host name and then look at their other
There are other episodes, isn't it? Yeah exactly, but that's not always so easy to do. It's not always obvious. Yeah
I think we may have to it would be a trivial enough thing in the feed to put in
Other shores in the series and put those links in and or maybe
um
Other topics, you know, this is tagged this and you can click on the show notes or whatever and get to that tag anyway
We can we can put in the infrastructure for doing all that cool stuff and then see how we go from there
Anyway, okay 1072 was a Tuesday. I know this because it was done with top controlling top and my
Lord is top
Top is some command
Have it in an episode one or two. I thought okay. That's it. That's all there is to possibly talk about top
But uh, he has taken it in fairness. He has taken that command and
Absolutely drilled it down to the to the very end episode four was was difficult. I thought to get through myself
Yes, I thought it was just me. No, it's it's it's a hell of a command. I had no idea that they were so much to it
Never net well, I've never never thought to dig that deep in it to be honest with you
Just look at what's the top of the list and you know
Go follow up and kill it
Or whatever you have to do, you know, but but yeah, wow it helps build that you know, it's who's who's been responsible for for all of that work
It's a hell of a lot gone into that. It's amazing. Yeah, yeah, and I think we're in fairness again
Let again, we need to stand up and applaud Dan for taking the topic and
Absolutely doing it justice. There is absolutely. Yeah, there's no element of any command that he touches that is not a hundred percent
Clear to people at the end of it like and if you don't get it in the podcast, you get it via the blog
You don't get to be at the blog then you you really get it on the on the video. It's amazing
Amazing well done done. Yeah, sir. I echo that completely. I look forward though to him
With some nice, you know, something like clear screen or something
Clear screen. It clears the screen
Although no doubt Dan will find every single thing that there is possible to do with clear screen. Okay
Anyway, Ahuka came out with
Separation content from the web and I want yes. I think this is required reading for absolutely anybody who
required listening and reading indeed anybody who sits behind the computer
Yeah, yeah, I agree. I agree. It's
It's a sort of Bible for the web. I suppose that that sort of stuff is, isn't it? Yeah, exactly
Although one thing I did have to scream down was that there is a field in the title of a HTML page for the title
H1 is just
the
Like you use for chapters in a book. I imagine but
There is a under HML under under the head section. There is an actual title. It puts the title up
The title
That was that was a minor thing to be honest. I
I've been preaching this for quite a while myself. No, it was good. It was good. I really enjoyed that
And yeah, yeah, we got far as CSS as well, which is pretty scary stuff
Well, that's here and you mentioned CSS and guarding
On his in his episode and that is really a just a fantastic fantastic site as you click through
Did you ever visit as well? I haven't no
Well, they take the text and you know, then they do it
Amazing just they just completely change the look and feel of the web page based only on CSS like from comic book layouts
You know to come extriple layouts to you know, you're boring business-y type layouts right through. It's fantastic
It's amazingly powerful stuff, isn't it? Yeah, I always found it a bit scary personally. I've never been much of a web guru myself
No, I could we could get into this. I could happily get into some of this stuff
I hope he it continues to to do this and if there are CSS experts out there and you feel you know and off to
get myself a Dave
Started then feel free to record a show on Saturday
Right, the next day we have oh, no two is possibly going to join us
I hope the next day we had
I'll camp 11 the embarrassment continues not from obviously there but the fact that we're sending out I'll camp 11 after
After I'll come 12 has been and gone
Yeah
Yes, I know sir. I did did look a little bit out of place that but still
It's good. It was a nice
Actually done chat. I think they're going to be is have we had we had the whole lot of
Oh camp 12 stuff
From the full circle, however
During the week I did get I was lambastas in fairness as I'll camp 12
As you can imagine for not having released interviews I'd recorded along camp 11
So I still have a few more to do I'm not going to do all the back episodes
There are a few that are still need to go so the ones I've recorded I received but as you know
I'm kind of a bit busy with other things going on at the moment which
All going well. I'll release a show on and probably all not going well. I'll release a show on anyway
One way or another so we'll see in a few months how that pans out
Anyway, yes, so an answer to your question. Yes, there's still more to do. I'm afraid both track log is being cleared
Okay, so then we had a 1075 Turkey to be news from do you give and then 1076 I bombed up
To the top because it was Ohio Linux fest and we needed to get the the news out there about that
The following day we had another bomb out this one was
Cause for oh actually it was
Hacking for freedom
Oh
Help me Dave. Help me. I think it's harryl and over
Yes, I was sorry. I was practicing that in the station because I knew I was going to have to see
Yes, yes, it's it's not the not a name that's easy to instantly digest with
Yeah, I really enjoyed that one actually I thought what we're an interesting and enthusiastic person
This uh, I forgot the first name harryl and over was but
I have fantastic and interesting interview that absolutely coming all the way from Canada to twice
I um embarrassed to say uh, I happened to lost the wear of
fs com at all
So uh, yes, I need to have a look at that
I think when next major plan is to get ready for uh, fostering actually which will be coming up quite soon
You're going over to that at all
It's it's in Belgium isn't it? Is it uh, we
Of yeah
And it's in February I believe it's not right. It is but it kind of creeps up in you because it's uh
I think it's early on in february and you're right christmas thing going on and then all of a sudden you think oh
That's next year and then it's not it's next month
I did happen to have a conversation with somebody just today or so ago saying
If you ever need to get to belgium, it's very good to take the uh, they they the the the train um of uraltals
The uralt the uraltrain yeah the uralt tunnel train which there's a direct line from
London to uh to belgium I believe have you ever done it?
Never I've been to paris on it, but I've never been been over to belgium. So
Tempted tempted should look at that we always need to look at the bank melon for the um we do need to for the uh booth
And coronomalone was probably going to chicken out and we've been a chicken that he is
I'm getting a message here I think yes
I'll see I'll talk to you. I'll have a look at the bank balance
Have a look at the bank balance after you go
Although actually uh uh
Uh it's amazing how many people have been in the tunnel and it's amazing how boring they managed to make it you know
It is it is yeah and it's uh yeah it's just just a dark tunnel
Yeah, but in fairness you know the trend build this thing for 200 years yeah
In the middle of the sense before Napoleon's time
And then they take it and they turn it like into the swans eating express is going under the tunnel
You know in the most fantastic piece of they don't do anything about it. It's just a train
No
I agree I agree I found actually the the the process of getting on the train was far more interesting than the than the journey itself
um you know because it's like getting on a plane you have to go through the whole ticketing and
customs and all the rest of it i
Exactly. I was i was a bit surprised at that whole thing you you get a like, um
a slice, you know, boarding car, I guess, of the word.
Yeah, yeah.
Do you ever take a car on that?
No, no, I've never done that.
Apparently you can drive a car on,
and you sit there in your car,
and you just go across France and drive off.
Cool. Oh my goodness.
Yeah, I had something to try, maybe.
I don't know.
I was taking a British car to Paris.
To France is not not easy.
I've done it once, and I wouldn't want to do it again.
It's hard to be in your own car
in a driving on the wrong side of the road.
It doesn't, you won't understand this
where you are, I guess, but coming from Britain
to the continent is weird.
No, no, I completely understand it.
I have no problem when I go back to Ireland,
like just getting into the car and driving on the other side
because the left hand drive, and you switch to a right hand drive.
My golden rule is always keep the passenger to the ditches,
is the key, but that goes completely out of the window
if you're driving a left hand drive car
and a right hand drive car on the right side of the road.
That's right, something else.
Yeah, yeah.
I drove around California last year for about three weeks
and came back to Britain, and the car felt strange.
It felt like it was twisted.
I was sitting on the wrong side of it,
but it was getting back into it was really, really easy
after being in an American car.
Yeah, don't do that.
OK, fair enough, I didn't know about the engine there.
Then we had a little podcast about, oh, yeah,
software patents and unitary patents.
I was supposed to put this out.
I got the email when I was away doing nothing,
and I didn't get to put it out, so I just got it on the day after
the voltage was, but fortunately,
the voltage has been postponed until October,
so this is still valid.
And Frederick, we should get together
and do another show about this to make sure it's out on time.
Anybody in the EU should definitely go and contact their MEP
about making sure that software patents don't raise their ugly heads.
Again, it's constant vigilance, I'm afraid, constant vigilance.
Yeah, yeah.
I went and looked at the apparel site,
and I haven't yet clicked on the Call of Random MEP,
but done the necessary, but it looks highly desirable.
Yeah, I think we need to do that.
OK, then we had the Distributed System Podcast.
I don't know about you, but this was so far over my head.
That was close.
Wow.
I'm, my notes here say fascinating, but heavy going.
I don't think I got more than about 50% of that.
Because I think somebody commented,
this is going to be really hard for somebody who doesn't understand
what it is we're trying to solve in the first place.
And I think that was true.
I'm not quite sure what the problem was they were trying to solve,
but it sounded really, really impressive whatever it was.
That they'd come up with as a solution.
Yeah, I did have some experience with what they're trying to do,
get them trades down on a stock exchange,
don't very, very fast, get them logged as quickly as possible,
have been everything out of the way.
So I kind of did have experience of that,
but it's such a specialized subject of what they're doing.
It's amazing.
It makes me interested to see what other sort of things they have
and the pipeline there.
Yeah, it looks like something that could be quite interesting
to research about if there was something
that explained it in for the layman, I think.
But yeah, quite a problem there, so I guess.
And we've been joined by Tattoo and Pegwall.
If you two guys want to join in, feel free to do.
So we're just finishing up the shows.
And if there's any of them you want to talk about, feel free.
Thank you, I will.
I think you're on 1081 now, is that correct?
Yes, but feel free to go back and talk about anything at all,
Tattoo.
No, that's OK.
I was actually just going to say, because I'm kind of a Gimp fan.
So I really enjoyed 1081, actually.
I mean, I didn't really learn anything,
but I love hearing about other people's workflow.
So I thought that was pretty cool.
Push to talk.
Couldn't agree more.
And who was this?
Dave, did you put a comment in today?
Yes, I put comment into Frank.
So explain what you just said to Frank.
Well, being an ex biologist, I'm afraid I'm one of these guys
who says, look, somebody's made a mistake on the internet.
I've got to kind of tell him about it.
So I had to point out the wasp that he thought was,
the thing he thought was a wasp was not.
It's a hover fly.
But I already mailed him about it.
And he was, he didn't take it badly.
But so you know, I can't really,
I'm not convinced that you can tell from that resolution
of the picture, but maybe you can.
Maybe you're that good.
I think so.
I think so.
It's obviously not a wasp or a bee.
It's because bees and wasps have very different shapes.
Different shape head.
Different shape abdomen.
This guy has got big head to forward facing eyes.
Looks like little antenna at the front.
Classic, so-called dipter and fly.
So sorry.
Wow, I'm sorry for arguing.
I have to over geek you on the biology of my fuzzy.
I'm really sorry.
I'm convinced.
I'm convinced.
How can you possibly say that when we argue
over your furry screenshots of some Linux desktop
in the back of some T.M. shape?
Yeah, yeah.
True.
It's an XFC desktop running.
I'm no.
T.M.
Yeah.
So I'm not the only one that gets excited when they see something
like that.
Absolutely not.
No, no, no.
No, this too many of us around obviously.
So then we had Linux in the shell.
And I, sorry, Linux in the shell episode four
of top part, episode 16, part four of top alternative windows.
And as we said before, everyone, I had no idea.
Any of that stuff was even possible.
For me, top.
Same here.
Yeah, I was able to go in, get top, do a little bit of sorting,
and go, hey, look, I'm so lazy.
The only problem I had was what the hell was I going to do with it?
How I didn't know what an earth to do with all those,
those different windows, but I think that's probably me,
but not really understanding it yet.
I'm actually embarrassed to start using the problem now.
I've stopped using this because I'm obviously
so underusing it to be ashamed to actually use it.
Yeah, right.
You know, that's the thing I love about Dan is,
well, normally, you know, he can just be Dan.
But then he just drops some knowledge on you out of nowhere.
And I kind of resent that because it seems
like he's holding out on us all the other times.
But yeah, I do appreciate the knowledge.
Yeah, he's fantastic.
I was just, as I was saying earlier,
I hope he picks something, you know, really obvious,
like clear screen or something.
But no one Dan actually, he'll be like,
oh, did you know that, you know, clear screen,
you can set the different types of screen
that you can clear, or you just remove particular colors
for certain pixels.
Oh, okay, moving back on.
It was good to hear from Sing Club Compilers Part One
and Compilers Part Two is in the queue.
Far ahead.
I was just gonna say, I saw a talk that she did
partly on compilers at some festival.
I don't remember which one it was.
I think it was Ohio Linux Fest.
It wasn't specifically about compilers,
but she talked a lot about compilers.
And I learned so much in like the five minutes
that she covered compilers.
And yeah, this episode is fantastic.
I love this kind of stuff.
This is stuff that I just don't even begin
to know where to start learning it.
So when someone just kind of tells me about it,
it's just, it's great.
Yeah, I was really impressed with this.
I had to play it about three times to get
that list of pre-process electrical analysis parsing.
You can tell I made notes as well.
It's very impressive.
Maybe ask her to slow down the teeny bit,
and maybe give her some show notes would be good,
but I'm happy with that as it was.
Yes, actually, show notes would be cool.
If anyone wants to volunteer to do show notes
at any time, feel free to join in.
And then we had Paul Levy on learning to dance
with spiders, which is from the last, I think,
of Robin Gattling's edited full circle podcast
on HP or segments.
I actually have not heard that one.
So I can't comment on it.
It is pretty cool.
It's the amount, how to get yourself offline type of thing.
How much time do you spend of a day?
Are you just aimlessly surfing?
Or are you just going to,
do you start your computer up to just do a task?
And then four hours later,
you're turning it down, having done stuff,
but not exactly what you wanted to do
when you start it up your PC.
I'm actually pretty good at that.
I don't really, I'm not on the web that much.
I'm generally, I'm good.
If I'm opening up a web browser,
it's because I need some kind of information from it.
Whether I spend too much time at the computer
or not is a completely different question.
See, I'm the exact opposite.
And personally, I blame Reddit.
Yeah, yeah, see, I avoid sites like that for that reason,
because if I did go to Reddit or for a chance
or something, yeah, then it turns into like an all day thing
and you're like, what happened to the day?
It just spirals out of control because you're like,
ooh, something I'm interested in.
Ooh, something else I'm interested in.
Ooh, textology news.
Something I'm morbidly interested in.
One more.
That I know I shouldn't be looking at it
because it's just so stupid.
The bestofyoutube.com.
Yeah, you know, just like that.
Lowlcats, well, it doesn't matter.
It's just, yeah, it's a horrible place to go the internet.
I go there for information and then I close the browser
and I really don't use a graphical browser that much,
which also kind of helps because there are lots,
you know, it's less to look at.
When you're firing it up in links or W3 in EMAX,
then it's just like super easy to get the information
and then close the window.
Yeah, cool.
That's actually another bad idea.
And A1085, which was a Friday show,
was a stream sent in by Zachary DeSantos.
Did anyone get to listen to this?
I did listen to it, actually, yes, yes.
I was wondering what I was listening to, to be honest.
It was sort of poised waiting for something to happen.
And then I realized it was a stream.
It was water.
It was water running.
It was an ambient sound thing.
I really, I thought that was really, yeah,
I thought that was really, really clever.
I totally didn't think that was the kind of stream
we were going to be talking about.
I was very, very impressed with that kind of thing.
I like things like that.
I thought you might say that I had it right in my head
when, because we were talking after,
I interviewed him about the sky, sky, kite, obviously,
that goes in the sky, asked the hacker village
up in at El Camp 13.
And afterwards, he was, he goes around
to records a lot of the ambient stuff, which is odd,
because I wanted to do a bit of that on a self.
You know, the sea and that sort of thing,
to be playing in work, rather than listening to music,
just to drown out the drawn of people.
And he said, yeah, they'll all go over the stuff.
So I said, yeah, they'll be able to send it on in.
Very cool.
Yeah, some of the portable recorders these days
are just so phenomenal in their, in the quality.
It's almost, yeah, it's fun to get kind of ambient noise
like that, just because it's so beautifully recreated
in the recording.
It just really sounds nice.
Yeah, no, I thought I'd go ahead.
Sorry, I was just going to agree with that.
My sons just started a degree in music here in Edinburgh.
And he and I bought a portable recorder.
We were going to share, I was going to try
and do podcasts with it, but he's taking it
because he needs it for his course
and he's going to be doing this sort of stuff.
And playing around with that thing,
I was amazed at the quality you can get from it.
So, yeah, looking forward to some good stuff from him.
I have a Zoom H2, which I wanted to put on the beach
up in, up in Freesland, you know, the sound of the,
there's nobody around, don't allow cars or anything
on the beach.
On the whole island, it's completely only people
who live there, low cars.
And there's not a sound except the crashing waves,
but it was pouring down the rain.
So, I didn't want to ruin my Zoom H2.
That, yeah.
But I do like that.
And the whole Freesound.org project, it's like,
it is an audio, you know, the last one
Bronx is on about getting people into T-Rat,
what, T-Rat, T-Rat, T-Rat, T-Rat, T-Rat.
Performance is things on the radio,
old radio, theater, that sort of thing.
And that's, you know, it's cool.
You can, it was a dark night.
Come on.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it's a great resource.
I mean, you can find all kinds of great sound effects there.
And that's one site that I go to very, very frequently.
Yes, that, and I think I should actually
do a summary of some of the, of those sites,
the free font site as well.
I found it the other day when I was trying to get down
a font for doing some posters from my son's birthday.
And of course, I'll probably part.
Yeah, yeah, open clip art is great.
You know, I was just going to say,
that is one reason I love the Freesound project.
It's just oddly fun to go find the sounds of,
like ambient stuff and just listen to it.
It's just actually quite cool.
I did the, my kids, they sometimes get scared
as some of the TV shows that are on.
So I show them how they, how they make stuff disappear
on TV, you know.
So we did a video of them, like, making all the plates
on the table disappear.
And then at the end, you know, they edited in them.
I'm the best magician in the world.
I make it disappear, come home and then, you know,
half our later after cleaning the table,
cut that in, splice it in.
And then at the end, they take about,
and I just got some applause from somebody's wedding
and put it in, you know, and at the end,
it's like the raw chop.
But that's great.
That's great.
Yes.
That's great, your head.
And the images then from, I was at open clip art
at the end, you know, and free font for the fonts is brilliant.
It's really cool what you can do.
And you know that you've got all the licenses covered, you know.
And you know, I think it's so important
that kids should understand how the world works in this respect,
you know, because so much rubbish on TV and films and stuff
that trying to make you believe one thing is true that's not,
you know, the way that kids have been taught
that if you take a balloon and blow in it
and then let it go, it floats.
And that's completely not true.
And I always want them to be able to look behind the scenes
and find out these sorts of nonsense things.
It's not a second B, it's a fly.
That's it, that's it.
That's how my kids want to, I want my kids to be.
Always lifting the curtain and looking behind it.
Absolutely, absolutely.
Well, yeah, at the same time, not taking away all the mystery
of what you're at at the same time.
No, no, no, don't tell anybody else, you know,
but just, just know yourself.
Right, there's, I haven't had a chance to go through
all the emails and stuff, but there is a few things
that jumped out of me.
One of them was that we did make a little change
to the website, I don't know if anyone even noticed it
over there, over the week, over the last month.
I didn't, I mean, I saw a new logo on the left at one point,
but I don't think I saw anything else different.
Well, now if you go to any of the shows,
you'll see that there's a nog, speaks in an MP3.
Oh, yeah, I did notice that, actually.
Yes, I spotted that.
I didn't realize it was new.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, I think I, I think I, I guess I just knew
that we had different streams for so long.
I didn't really realize we had ghosted them or something.
Change something that was bugging me for so long
was that when you click on the show now,
you go to the show episode, it doesn't start playing
the MP3 file, so yeah, that's great.
That's been needed to be done for a while, but I was only,
I haven't done anything on the site
because we were, we're so long moving to the new site,
which, you know, I'm going to jump over
a coffee for me, moving on.
But then when Fabrice mentioned that we brought it off,
that we were promoting an MP3 over the log.
So I then put the log first in the MP3 last,
well, fair enough, don't argue the point.
Just do it, it's five minute work.
But I also want to thank David Whitman,
who realized that I had put half the cash in for the banner.
I'm not only did he give me more than enough for the banner,
he sent me over $150 to cover the cost of the banner
and I will now use that to fund stickers
for anybody who's donated to the ASF
and anybody who has been some stickers for Foscom,
Foscom, Foscom, Foscom, Foscom.
Wait, what is ASF?
Oh, accessible.
No, what is ASF?
Oh, yeah, what is that?
That's ACF.
That's my just legs here coming in again.
Okay, so what's all about just not there too?
What, the Accessible Computing Foundation?
Thank you, yes.
It is a foundation that promotes accessibility
and computing as specifically on free software.
And what can you do over there for $2 a month
in the actual effect?
Oh, I don't know.
I signed up, but I didn't know I was supposed
to be getting anything for it.
You, no, you can get anybody who signed up.
I'm just, if this is a dress I'll send them off
as stickers or something,
and when we get a sticker record.
Oh, cool.
Yeah, fair enough.
Anyone else got anything to say?
Oh, yes, somebody reported just to my email.
I can't go to my email now because of my weird
silly selection of push to talk.
I need actually three hands.
Wow.
Well, okay, it's a long story.
I normally have a, a, my telephone box,
the box that my mobile phone came in.
And I rest my mic on that,
which is like the perfect type
but for some reason that has disappeared.
And probably due to having a wife and three kids.
And so I'm holding my mic with my hand
and the other hand I'm using to hold the push to talk button.
Gotcha, yeah.
No, I can't scroll with my mom's anyways.
Yes, I got an email.
Hold on one second.
And that email was from, oh,
the person Epikannis, are you online?
He's like he's trying to be.
Yes, and I've just put you to his handle
as is the tradition.
No, I think you got to write Epikannis.
No, I'm not supposed to get it right.
That's the whole thing about HPR community news.
I practice and practice and practice.
Anyway, he mentions that the Og feed
doesn't have that crappy stupid date properly,
which is odd because I've checked it,
but I'll fix it again.
I was trying to find the exact spec for the date format.
And I thought everything was fine,
but he's saying it's not.
So I'll believe him.
I wonder how he's digging it up.
I kind of believe him as well.
I will have a look and make sure that everything's okay.
But it is a, it's that stupid email format,
which is absolutely, you know, in English.
So even if you've got a French podcast,
you have to have the dates in English.
So yeah, that is weird.
And it's RSS 822.
822, okay.
And it's freaking stupid.
Yes, I agree.
Which is why we will be using atom feeds
for to power the front end to the back end
because it uses the correct date format year month,
day, tea hours, minute seconds.
Interesting.
Yes, and does a lot more stuff
like supporting multiple authors for the show.
And allows you to embed the org,
the speaks, the MP3 and the flag file in the one element.
What's the, what's the history of atom versus RSS?
Do you have any, any idea?
Or should I just refer myself to Wikipedia?
Probably Wikipedia, but I can give you my rundown.
Atom, RSS started and it was basically hacked together.
And then atom, they sat down and thought,
well, let's do this problem.
And it kind of has some color.
I'm going to have to look at it for, for my own show,
I think, because it kind of sounds appealing.
It is, it's quite nice.
Sorry, go ahead, Michael.
I was going to say, I think I should talk crayons
to using an atom feed for dev random.
Yeah, it's a lost cleaner actually.
Yeah, it sounds like it.
And the spec is, it's clear XML.
You can embed, you know, extend the namespace if you want.
They're very clear.
You must use this.
You shall use this.
You must not use this.
You can use this.
And they're taken to account things
like the people actually might want HTML in particular areas.
And then you just flag that as being HTML.
Nice.
Thank you.
So pretty cool.
So I will be building, and they also allow,
the feed also allows for feeds of feeds.
So you can take somebody else's atom feed
and just give the bare minimum information
and pull the element from somebody else's atom feed in.
So that's pretty cool.
And also, which is kind of nice.
It allows you to have just the element entry,
which is a bit about the show itself
as a free standalone file.
So when people upload the shows,
they could have their own elements actually completed
and submitted to us.
And then we can just ingest that element as part of,
as a entry in the main feed itself.
Pretty cool.
That sounds brilliant.
I wonder why I'm not using this.
I'm liking the way that this sounds.
I think anybody who's gotten into RSS deep off has gone.
There has to be something better than this.
There's a really bad thing.
I know that Google were trying to promote it
and they got shut down, because people
were kind of married to RSS.
But I think it's unfortunate that Apple,
when they came out, that they didn't just go, you know,
instead of extending our own namespace
and doing all that stupid crap, we'll just use atom,
and that's it.
But they didn't.
No comment.
OK, I still need to chase down Sigflux Raspberry Pi,
which has been lost in the post or whatever.
And if it doesn't come, I'll just arrange for another one
to be sent to her.
Let me have a look at anything else.
Oh, yes, thanks 5154 for spotting
that the episodes were in the wrong order.
I still haven't sent out the t-shirts
that they're promised people.
That's because.
All right, the reason I didn't give them,
I don't know how to say the reason I didn't give them,
but there was a laundry fusion.
So I wasn't able to hand out the t-shirts at all camp,
and then I promised to give them out.
But now since then, we've done a clean out
of all the rooms upstairs.
So the back room is now full of old furniture,
and I can't get at the t-shirts.
So that is the pathetic excuse for this month.
And hopefully that'll buy me some time until next month.
We feel like this is a scam.
Yes, it is.
It's a big scam.
I have, we have apparently won the sum of 2,000,000,000,000,
million euros in the Euro raffle.
The famous Euro raffle.
I heard of this.
That is fantastic.
Larry Busci is applying this, yes, the RSS script
that we had was giving a 403 for bidding forbidden.
But I need to investigate, really,
to see whether that's a meeting or somebody else.
Wasn't the Euro raffle put on by that really wealthy
Nigerian Brent?
It is, in actual fact, it is just before he
had known his gold somewhere.
So I think that is pretty much as much as I can talk about.
Feel free to talk amongst yourselves for a while.
No pressure, huh?
Not at all.
I think that's pretty much it.
Did you have a listen to any of the shows
that the month I'm using to empower G.M.?
I am going to say I'm so sadly behind on shows right now.
Yes, I really need to get you out.
Not a bother, but remember, don't subscribe the feed.
Listen to the show and delete it.
That's another thing, actually.
If you're not interested, just delete it.
That's another thing, actually, that the atom feed
supports a lot better is they have a summary field,
which we could then use to feed the Twitter feed,
but also, I don't want to get people's idea of this.
Also, at the beginning of the show,
we could automate, like, if people put in a short summary,
140 character summary of how the show is about,
we could have this is episode 200, you know,
1027, and today's show is about blah, blah, blah, blah, whatever.
At the beginning of the show, plus we could also
include announcements for today is the last day
that you can buy your tickets for, whichever upcoming event
is coming out.
What do people think about that as a concept?
I think it sounds great.
I think it sounds very smart.
Doesn't interfere in the sanctity of people's show or anything.
No, I don't think so.
Yeah, I wouldn't think so either.
OK, because I was thinking right here,
we have this thing that goes out every single day.
And we all know that there are some shows
that are more interesting than all the shows,
not to me, obviously, because I'm hardcore HBR.
But a lot of people say, yeah, God, a lot of this stuff,
I listen to it, and then I just delete it.
But if you knew what the show was about beforehand,
you would at least have the choice to go, oh,
that is actually interesting.
I might listen to that or I might listen to it later.
Of course, we do go out every day,
so it would be an ideal time, an ideal opportunity
to people to get into the last minute announcements
as a heads-up to all the community type thing.
Yeah, I think that would be actually really useful for that,
just for, I guess, getting those things out to people.
I mean, because a lot of people, I don't think
know that there's a mailing list.
And so if they were subscribed to this anyway,
and they could get little announcements,
then that might be helpful.
Could be, actually, could actually do something like an identity
no, I'm not going to commit myself to anything else here.
You knew, knew, that is the path to be evil.
Yeah.
Anyway, also, that would mean that, yeah,
we could also then add on promos to the end of the shows
as well, automatically, as they're coming up.
But it would also mean that people
could not need to add the intro and outro to their shows.
That would be brilliant.
But I like doing that.
OK, if you want to, that's fine.
It would be an option.
Oh, and my microphone works now.
Hello.
So with this little summary, be like in the same text file
as the show notes or a separate thing.
Yeah, the summary would be, you would write it,
and it's one of the fields supported by Atom.
So it would be at the top.
And you would submit that, which you show.
So you would upload as high quality
as you could, a flacker or a wildfire.
And then you would have an Atom XML element file.
And in there, there would be the text,
the summary of whatever it is that you're talking about.
And that would be read out at the beginning of the show.
OK, so we'd be generating our own add-amout put.
Yep.
With the help of a web thingy, if you need it,
or with the help of the bash script or something.
That works.
Yes, and then we can add advertising to the back.
And resell your things.
Do I get a cut?
No, it's all ccbisay.
We've got rid of the creative comments.
Wow.
Sorry, we got rid of the non-commercials.
Wow.
OK, I'll write it off on my taxes.
Sure, I'll print receipts.
Right, folks, I think that's about it.
I need to go and spend some time with my lovely wife,
who is sitting at the television reading
the subtitles of the program.
She's just said yes.
All right, so if you want to chat on, that's fine.
But I'm getting out of here.
Cool, see you guys later.
OK, see you all later, guys.
Take it easy, Ken Fallon.
OK, guys.
And remember that this is now a schedule meeting.
It's if you want to remind you just go to the HPR website.
It's the last Saturday of the month.
And Dave, that's the reason why I had to go back
and start the repeating meeting sometime in May or wherever,
because I needed to find a day where that was 31 days
where it's landed on a Saturday.
Oh, right, right.
That's how you pick the last Saturday of the month
in good terms.
Oh, wow.
Seriously, that's not good.
That's not good.
This is seriously on the user forum.
How you pick the last Saturday of the month
in the route occurring appointment.
Anyway, it's a hack, it's fine.
So it's on there on the website.
I feel free to click it and join every month
and the details of how to join the Mondale Server are on there
as well.
It's a lot better if people, more people, than me or others.
OK, I appreciate it.
Everybody turn around.
Thanks, guys.
Have a good month.
Bye.
OK, cheers.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
where Hacker Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network.
The release of shows every weekday on Deathly Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dot
pound and the infonomicum computer club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution
at binref.com.
Openref projects are crowd-sponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show
is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share a line, lead us our license.
