Episode: 1552
Title: HPR1552: An Open Source News Break from Opensource.com
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1552/hpr1552.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 04:57:39

---

Where shall i monopolize myself?
Now start here!
Where shall i execute this magic trick Communism?
If not, you will lease it to me!
Oh!
I will mend this trick!
Of course I will!
I will mend this trick!
With all my knowledge...
...when I ask you, Dashin brothers ...
...well I promise you...
...you will be free alone...
...last time...
...even if you explode...
...with such such handyifng...
Hello Hacker Public Radio, this is semiotic robotic with an open source news break from
OpenSource.com.
We recently published an interview with Mark Johnson, development manager at OpenSource
Advisory Service, OSS Watch, co-host of the Ubuntu podcast and co-coordinator of annual
Free Culture Unconference AgCamp.
Johnson discusses the challenges involved in ensuring institutions like government agencies
and universities consider open source software solutions when making procurement decisions.
He also details the barriers that he and OSS Watch encounter when they try to explain free
software to decision makers.
In spite of the challenges, Johnson explains how championing the open source way is well
worth the effort.
Honestly, he writes, it has never occurred to me to work any other way.
We also published an article by Jack Kloppenberg who coordinates the open source seed initiative,
a group that applies open source principles to plant breeding in the service of public plant
breeders, small seed company plant breeders, farmer breeders, and advocates for seed sovereignty.
Kloppenberg writes about the importance of the initiative's work, suggesting that the OSS
S.I. was formed in order to enhance a vigorous innovation in plant breeding by the creation
of a licensing framework for germplasm exchange that would preserve the right to unencumbered
use of shared seeds and their progeny in subsequent use.
And I quoted that sentence simply so I could say germplasm on the radio.
You're welcome.
Finally, I recently published a review of a new video game that makes source code hacking
a core game mechanic.
In hack and slash by double fine productions, players assume control of Alice, an adventurer
with a special kind of weapon, a USB tipped hacking sword.
Alice doesn't slice and dice her enemies, she plugs into them, allowing players to manipulate
the actual source code for the video game.
Players can then tweak variables in the code in order to defeat their enemies, manipulate
the environment, and solve puzzles.
Peter Matt Dillon says he hopes the game will inspire more video gamers to use their playful
dispositions to tinker with source code.
You can check out the game on steam.
And that's all for this open source news break from opensource.com.
Don't forget to check out the show notes for links to the stories I've discussed in
this episode.
You can also send us a note at opensource.com slash contact, or tweet us at opensourceway.
And don't forget, you can submit your open source story to opensource.com.
Just visit opensource.com slash participate for more details.
Until next episode, this is Semiotic Robotic, wishing you peace, love, and open source.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio or Hacker Public Radio does our, we are
a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday and Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dot pound and the economical computer
club.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com, openref projects are proudly sponsored
by LUNAR Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LUNARPages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons, attribution, share
a life, lead us our lives.
