Episode: 1254
Title: HPR1254: X2go Remote Linux server/client
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1254/hpr1254.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 22:29:57

---

Good day and welcome to another edition of Hacker Public Radio.
What I'd like to do today is talk about a program called X to go and X to go is a VDC
client. So you set up your Ubuntu devian whatever you want on a server and then you use
either Linux PC or Windows PC to log in remotely to that. It's very similar to the Windows
remote desktop thing. And it's a PPA in Ubuntu and you can add a PPA or not a PPA but a repository
for devian 7 as well. And I moved to devian 7 and it was no issue at all and it's a little
resource thing. I really like that it had a pretty mature Windows client. You do have to watch
the SSH folder and delete it if you need to do reinstall or fresh whatever. And for me it was a
really good thing because I had an old Xeon workstation. It was quite loud and I didn't want it
under the desk anymore so I put it in the server room. And so now I use a VNC to connect to an
XP workstation if I have to use Outlook or something with my Ubuntu laptop at work. And if I need
to say do an SAP project all of the SAP websites and stuff stay open on this X to go thing. So I have a
two screen at work. I can move X to go up or I can move that Windows XP VNC up and work from my
laptop. My Ubuntu laptop with no trouble at work. And it's really nice because you have
two screens one with the VNC on it that has XP image and one with X to go that has the
latest devian 7 with all of the latest SAP nodes and Intel Arc site and various other things.
Already that's the end of my show and if you need a good remote client for Linux X to go is
just fine. All right take care bye-bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio or Hacker Public Radio does our. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our
shows, was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever consider recording a podcast
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the
Digital Dark Pound and the International Computer Club. HBR is funded by the binary revolution
at binref.com. All binref projects are proudly sponsored by linear pages. From shared hosting
to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise
stasis, today's show is released on the Creative Commons, Attribution, Share Alive,
that leads us all to our lines.
