Episode: 1150
Title: HPR1150: Hacking Karma And Reincarnation With The Forgiveness Discipline
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1150/hpr1150.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 19:50:30

---

So thank you for coming. This is my presentation on something I've been doing for several years
now called the Discipline of Forgiveness. And the first thing that I ask you to understand
is that we are not discussing traditional idea of forgiveness. This is not your mother
and father's concept of forgiveness. This is a whole new bowl game. So I thought it
stood off for an example that I worked out of what traditional old school forgiveness
is. So here's what I wrote. Well, you really did it. This is real in a real bad situation
and it happens to be your fault. But I'm going to forgive you for what you did. You don't
deserve this, but I'm going to do it just because I'm just that much more perfect than you.
I'm going to do this anyway because, well, I have Jesus. And by the way, you don't. And you will
be always be screwing up. I know that you'll always be screwing up. You could stop screwing up.
But you won't. Because you're not as great as first as I am. You could begin to agree with me
about everything. But you won't. You could even believe every last thing I believe. But you won't.
So unlike me, there is no hope of you going to heaven, but I will. And I might not look sad about
this, but I really do feel sorry for you. So I had a little bit of fun writing this. So what's
wrong with this? Anyone want to take a stab at the mountain of wrongness in this? Besides it being,
yes, too much pride, too much arrogance. Guilt, guilt, guilt is a forgiveness and guilt. Very good.
Self-serving. Excellent. Anything else? Ha, hubris. Lots of hubris. Lots of exclusiveness. Right. But
the worst part of all of this is that it treats both this world and the things and the people in it.
As real. Now as a society of mystics, there are problems with what has been called the
objectivization of reality that is to say we actually have no guarantee that what we experience
is actually real. And I'm sure you had heard phrases like the world is maya which roughly translates
into illusion. It's appeared in popular culture like in films like The Matrix, where all the
world is a computer simulation. There are also several philosophical thought experiments like
what if we were a brain being kept in a vat by some mad scientist just fed data. And in the end,
and when you get right down to it, just about the only thing if you try to exclude all kinds of lies
and illusions and misperceptions is that there is some incoming stream of information and there is
something interpreting it. But that's all we can really be absolutely sure about this.
So this is of course heavy metaphysics. So let me try to simplify it by giving you a couple of
analogies. Me and a few friends like to deeply enjoy going out to the movies. You know the movies,
right? You're going to a big auditorium where lights go down and there are very real looking images
on a screen that move a lot and a lot of involving dialogue. Now, if we were viewing a movie
for a second time, we might know that a certain character's decision would lead in
a course of a movie to certain bad outcomes. And if we were to stand on the stage and try to engage
the character and warn him about what's about to happen, that would be foolish, right? That would
be foolish, right? Because certainly you can see that the movie would continue through to its
inevitable conclusion and through its inevitable conflict. Now, if we could get into the projectionist
booth and mess with the projector and the film, then we might be able to change the course of the
movie. Would you agree? Well, by the way, if at any point you have any questions, I hope you'll
interrupt me, please. Because I do, I am counting on your questions to clarify things if I go too
fast at certain points. Thank you. So what I'm trying to lead you to is that there is a spiritual
discipline aimed at leading to actually changing the film. And this is because if you just try to
interact with what's happening on the film, you're never going to change anything, really.
It's just not going to change. It's already predetermined. It's moving forward on you.
Now, we don't have to look at this just as that one analogy. There's another analogy I want to
talk to you about the sleeping child. Now, if you were a mother, hi mom, you might see your child
sleeping and you might be able to realize that child was was dreaming. You know, you'd see the
child in bed asleep, right, curled up. Beautiful, you know. And it might be saying something to someone
or something in the dream. It might physically twitch and you would know that the child is walking
or running in the dream. You know, you've seen this kind of thing in real life, haven't you?
Am I like off the wall here? No, good. I'm glad. Now, you could even tell if the child is having
a nightmare, if it's having a bad experience, you've heard maybe a sleeping spouse in the little
night saying, don't, don't, don't, don't, right? You know, it might be even having a nightmare.
But if it was a child having a nightmare, let me ask you a question. And people who are
familiar with racing children feel free to agree with me or not. But you wouldn't pick up the baby
and go, right, that would shock, that would shock the child worse than the nightmare, right? So,
maybe you'll sit down next to the child and go, you know, honey, this is just a dream. This is all
illusions. This is just crap in your head. And you're going to wake up and say, was it all fake?
Something you imagined. And you talk soothing because, you know, we've also all had the other
experience in dreaming where, you know, someone, someone's talking while we're asleep in the room.
And when we wake up, we realize that the words coming out of the mouth was actually in the dream,
right? I mean, I mean, I remember when I was a kid once, I was having a dream that I was being
chased by soldiers and stuff, and one soldier looked at me and said, in my mother's voice,
honey, you're going to be late for school, right? So, that's what it's like. And the interest,
the civil interest and quality is to the dream. One is that there's an experience where the child
or the dreamer, their reality has been replaced with the dream itself. All right, even to know,
it's illusory, it's in their head, but they are hooked into that as if it were real.
So, in actuality from the perspective of the dreamer having the nightmare, that hearing the whisper
from the mother or from the outside is a sign that the battle is halfway over. At that point,
you're coming out of the dream. Now, the analogy of the dreamer is actually a little bit deeper than
that, because, you know, I talked about the child's reality being switched with the dream,
but I want you to imagine yourself, you know, you go to bed, you go to sleep, halfway into the
experience, your eyes begin switching, switching, you're in the dream, you dream, you dream, you have a
dream, little venture dream, you wake up, you go to your day job, you come home to your five family,
come home to your wife, you go back to bed, you dream, you dream, dream, but you see this another level,
because on another level above that is you jump into a life, you're raised, you wake up,
sleep, wake up, sleep, dream, real, dream, real, die, jump out of that life, jump into another life,
that goes on and on, I don't like this. And looking at this perspective, you see there's an issue
issue of levels begins to imagine. And while I talk to you about these levels, you know,
there's other levels above that that we can't even imagine. You know, this is a level where,
you know, angels and gods and things that we have no experience of is out there happening.
So I've almost explained the whole of this analogy to you, but I did leave off a little bit that I
wanted to introduce now. I want to talk about the voice trying to lead you to waking up. Now,
that voice I and many others like me believe is actually none other than the Holy Spirit,
the account of the Lord trying to bring us back because what many people believe is that we
are actually in God's nursery and God is being very patient trying to lead us out to Him.
So maybe you're asking yourself why I'm bringing God in the Holy Spirit into this.
And the reason is because God is the ultimate reality. But we're experiencing this dream,
all this around us is made up. And you could call this our inferior creation because like a dream,
it's all in our head. I also want to point out to you that I'm introducing new concepts here,
like I said, our head, our head, really our mind. Something I've been discussing with Ron for
a while is the metaphysical idea of the one-sold universe. We're all in one mind that is generating
a simulation of many people looking at each other, doing things to each other. It's like a novelist
typing out a novel and imagining all these different characters for a novel that aren't real.
And I've also said something else as a new term to Lebanon, which is the concept of the inferior
creation. And this is a little bit more complex to explain. You see there's a little contradiction
and that is that because we all say that God is perfect. It's a kind of constant of religious
experience, the idea of the perfect God. And perhaps you've noticed that there's a lot of
non-perfect stuff going on in our world. You know, war, strife, old age, disease, stuff like that.
So I ask you, could God a perfect being create something imperfect? You know, God is an all-knowing
imperfect being can do a hell of a lot. But if he were to create something that is not perfect,
it would show a lack of foresight on his plot. And as I'm sure he can imagine, a lack of foresight
is not exactly the quality of a perfect being. From what we can tell, anything God created would be
perfect. And since this world around us is not perfect, you know, Eureka, God did not create it.
Our inferior creation. It's kind of a heavy metaphysical point. Do we have any questions?
No, keep going. Keep going. Are you going to fall asleep on me? No, good. Okay.
That is a great compliment. The comment was that Martin Pesqually would be very happy to be here.
Thank you so much. And by the way, I'm just repeating it for the sake of the recording I'm making
for later. Now, this rabbit hole goes a bit further than that. But, you know, it's been many minutes,
yes. Since I've started, now it hasn't. I don't want to put you guys to sleep. I'm very concerned
about not putting you to sleep. So I want to break things up a little bit now with a practical.
That's how a practical experience. You know, I've important to you what I think is the minimum
to understand the metaphysics behind forgiving people as a discipline for life. So what I would like
to do is I want to lead you through a practical exercise, a long-form forgiveness prayer. We're going
to do this in just a minute. You see, I have a problem presenting this topic. It's a big topic.
I've listened to speakers and read a few books and I've gotten a long way from my example of old
school forgiveness for you already. To show you the difference, I've had to explain a bit. But now
we have enough to try a long-form forgiveness prayer together. We can then build on the ideas
somewhere, but we can use this exercise to give you a taste of the process. You see, the title is
forgiveness as a discipline, which means forgiveness of other people, whether or not you want to,
whether or not it feels good, you know, discipline. And we all need discipline when it comes to
spiritual things, because we all like to take a shortcut, right? You don't like to come in here and
have this brother stand up in front of you in this mystic society and and put some magical
words in over a course of a half hour an hour and you walk out here and you're just like
Buddha and Jesus. Wouldn't that be great? How many of you have ever played an instrument? Can I
show a hand? Have I tried to play an instrument? What happens the first time? You suck, right?
You need practice. And to get practice, you have to have a discipline, you have to have a
methodology, you have to do it repeatedly. And I don't want you to think that I'm perfect here.
You know, as my darling wife has pointed out to me many times, there are plenty of things that I
don't forgive. You know, I'm only trying it, but I'm practicing. So I have these prayers, by the way,
and I do have a short form prayer too. I haven't memorized it because I just do this so much. I mean,
when I started this, I had a real problem with road rage. You know, and so I've learned to pray
over traffic jams. I'm proud at this point, which happens to be often enough in this county where
I have things memorized. So
so later on at the very end of this talk, I will give you the short form, because if you decide that
this kind of discipline might appeal to you too, you know, you will certainly need something quicker
just to be practical, huh? Okay. So and also the long form is a great place to start because
I can tick it apart with you right after the prayer and look at each part with it so you can see
exactly what we're trying to do. So would you join me in a prayer of forgiveness? You know, relax,
close your eyes, and your mind's eye, pick a person or a situation to forgive. And it doesn't have
to be the big one. It doesn't have to be the big one. It doesn't have to be the big one.
Though, you know, it might help if it's the big one. It's up to you really. And you know, if you
after our practice, if you actually succeed in forgiving it, then you will have learned a lesson
forgiving something and the Holy Spirit will do the hard work for you, moving through all the
possible lives in your existence, both past, present, and future, and removing that obstacle from your
prayer, from your path. Because after you've overcome it, you don't need to learn the same lesson twice
and the Holy Spirit surely knows that. And if you need to try it again, or if you don't fully
forgive it in the day to practice of this, if you decide to take it on as a lifestyle, if you forget,
just outright forget something happened during the day to forgive it. And I want to promise you,
I can you can rest assured the Holy Spirit will surely place a near identical experience in your
path again. Okay? This is why we say that forgiveness shrinks the universe. It shrinks the things
that we are exposed to in our lives. So the words themselves are not important, but the point is to
train your mind to, and this is all broken up dashes, forgive as a default action, as opposed to what
you're probably doing now in your day to day life, which is forgiving, or I should say, which is
being in the mode of always judging everything around you. So pick a person or situation you would
like to forgive, and envision it in your mind's eye, and think along with me, or say it aloud if you
prefer. You're not really there, and if I think you're guilty, or the cause of a problem, and I
made you up, then the imagined guilt or fear must be in me. Since the separation from God never
occurred, I forgive both of us for things that never really happened. Now there's nothing but an
innocence, and I join in the Holy Spirit in peace, and then imagine yourself releasing what's in
your mind's eye to the Holy Spirit, and let the Holy Spirit do the hard stuff. I would like to
pause at this moment just for a few seconds to stretch and get a breath of air, and if you like
to do the same, please do so. I'll be right back. So thanks for letting me break it up like that,
guys. I appreciate. So what I'd like to do is I'd like to step through. Yeah, that's right. The
kind of thing that you've got to forgive yourself to forgive everybody. Thank you so much for the
excellent point. Let me skip ahead a little bit, and if I repeat later, please stop me. But you see,
cause we all have, we all have, we all share one soul. We all have, there's one subconscious that
knows what's going on. The subconscious knows the real deal, as they say, but it's not letting us
know about it. So you see, if we fail to forgive ourselves, what we're doing is we're telling the
subconscious, we're giving the subconscious a clear and unmistakable statement that we're not
worthy of, no one's worthy of forgiveness. And if we condemn somebody else, you see, we're
actually telling the Holy Spirit, or actually at the subconscious, I should say, that we ourselves
are worthy of condemnation. And this is why a couple of things happen that you might have noticed
that when they, when you wish bad on someone else, often you get this thing back to back in your
face. That's why. You know, and also the way you treat the apparitions around you, or the other
people that you perceive around you, or the way you feel about them, even greatly determines
to a huge extent how the world looks back at you, because we all share one subconscious. Thank
you for that. All right, so let's step through. Yes, yes, brother. So much, so much of this,
like does, does affect literally linguistic programming and the old schools of Alchemy.
You know, one of my favorite passages of the New Testament is where Jesus says, if you have faith,
you could tell that mountain over there to float away in it would. And you know, when we talk
about our local reality, that's what we're discussing. It really is, it really becomes
up to us, but you have to have your mind programmed the right way to get there. And that's why I'm saying,
you know, this, this is not what I present to you today. It's not the only discipline there are
others. This one happens to be right for me. I would be thrilled if someone decided it was right
for the two, and I would have someone to share, you know, experiences with, but that may or may not
happen. But it really is like that, because what you believe does affect with the people around
you believe, what you accept changes a lot, to relate this to something a little bit more modern
if you would, my brother. I was watching Nome Chomsky on the TV the other day, and they were
interviewing him about the political situations we're in, and they said, what can we do to stop people
who are, who are being led down the, the primrose path by these people who are controlling what's
on the TV, and he said, tell them they should stop watching TV. And it is, it is true in the fact
that when I cut down on my personal TV years ago, I began changing my mind off the path of that
quite a bit, and now I'm involved in new media. I put out three times a month, a news podcast,
and I only picked the stories that I'm sure that Fox News CNN and MSNBC will not cover,
because they need the voice more than anything in the mainstream. That's what I do.
Bell, you had a question or comment? A man a little bit proud of the different simulated
characters looking at each other. Yes, I see what you mean. I see what you mean. All right, so I
would like to step through the longish forgiveness exercise with you if you would. So you're not
really there. This is generally a reminder of the unreality of what we're experiencing,
and where are we thought together? If I think you're guilty, all through the words, the guilt
or fear must be in me. This Hawkins back to what I gave you before about the child dreaming
analogy, where we're still on God's nursery, but having a dream, you know, because the dream in
the child, you know, is a reality only in the child's head for those few seconds. It's not really
there. So anything I imagine is being done to me to figment. Now since the separation of God from
God never occurred, it reminds us again that we are still with God. You know, even to know God is
not in our dream with us. We're only receiving these whispers from the Holy Spirit, you know, but
we are still with the Lord. And we are in again, the inferior and unreal dream. I forgive both of us
now for things that never really happened. Now I would be beaten your head if I didn't
remind you again that that's a reminder about the never really happening part, but forgive us both.
Well, this is what my sister over here reminds us of. It's important to forgive both me and the
perceived, because remember we're all branches, Mandelbrot, fracture branches of the same subconscious.
We're all worthy of forgiveness, and we have to try and strive over time to get away from the idea
that we're worthy of being judged against. You know, while our conscious mind thinks it is a
separate unique thing, you know, the ego has a script, the ego wants to tell you something,
that your ego has a message for you, and it's messages this. It's messages that you are so unique.
And oh boy, have you gotten a raw deal. It's just not that bad. It just isn't that bad. It's part
of the con is what I'm saying. Now there is nothing but innocence, and I joined with the Holy
Spirit in three months of the fact. Again, that nothing is really happening. There can be no guilt.
There can be no guilt for things that aren't in fact happening. You can't be guilt, there's
something that didn't occur. So I want to look at the metaphysics, some more the metaphysical
implications of this with you, because now you have a basic understanding of what's involved.
I want you to see some of the implications. You know, a common question we're looking at that
discipline is why people, is why a simple thing like an idea that we might have had, you know,
we have often, you've seen in the Bible in the beginning of John, it says, in the beginning,
the word was with God, and the word was one with God. And what we're asking now is why the idea of
what would it be like to have a creation without God in it inside of this thing with us? Why would
that need to actually be played out? And the truth is of the idea is that it's not being played out,
per se. You know, but in order for us to pretend that it is the illusion of time and space must be
created to be able to have a, he did this and then he did that and then he did another thing. You
see where we get, we have to have time. And this goes back again to what I told you about the
analogy of the sleeping child. You know, you must have had the experience of some dreams that are
epic. They take a huge amount of time and then other dreams seem to go like that. But in
actuality, I'll sleep scientists know they've measured the actual rapid eye movement and the
dreaming face only lasts for seconds. And then there's a period of time and then it happens again,
you know. So the dreamers having the lucid dream for just a few minutes or seconds and the time
itself in the dream is only an illusion. It's a construct of the dream itself. So if you ever hear
anybody talking again in terms of your parents' old school metaphysics, that when you get to heaven,
all these people you missed since they passed away are there waiting for you. You can now ask yourself
if there is really any time outside of this level of reality. You know, do you really think and
a sad master like Jesus of Buddha has been waiting around for thousands of years for you to show up?
Yeah. Outside of here, there is no time. You step into the eternal. They don't have to wait for us.
They're there. And of course, we go back to the level's idea where, you know, one level we're
experiencing the masters. You know, another level we would experience God purely itself. You know,
another level that would just be God goes up and bumps up in that way. Now another question that
yes, yeah, on the different things, the question is about levels. And the different, the important is that it's
a nested situation. So that, you know, we have several dreams. We have several periods of
weakness in asleep in our life. And we have another level where we have several lives that consist of
within them, several periods of awake sleep dream, awake sleep dream. Above that, we have an experience
where we're outside of life and death. And we're with other souls. Another level of experience
we're just with Lord himself. You know, it bumps up in that way. It's like a bunch of shells or
an onion. It's like an onion. It has layers to it. All right. Does that answer your question?
Okay. Okay. So another question seems to is why this seems to keep going on and on and on
thousands of years of human history. And this point I want to, you know, leave that child analogy
behind and go back to the movie theater analogy with you. Now, you go to a movie theater and you see
a movie and the movie is dead boring. I mean, more boring than any film you've ever sat through before
in your life. What would you do? You leave the theater, right? You see, there has to be all this drama.
There has to be all this drama to keep people from waking up and walking out. Now, I did mention
before the pop culture movie, the Matrix before. And how many people have seen the Matrix?
Good. A good bunch of us. Science fiction fans. I love it. Do you remember the scene where
Agent Smith is interrogating Orpheus toward the end? And Smith says, you know, this isn't the first
Matrix. The first Matrix was perfect. There was no conflict. No fights in it. You know what happened?
People kept waking up. They knew deep down that nothing could be this perfect. And they woke up
from it. Politics is a great source of unforgiveness. And you can still play politics all you want.
And a discipline like this does not require that you give up relationships or any odd
possessions or hobbies that you're passionate about. It does however teach the mind to put you in
control of whether or not you want to continue with the illusion. You can keep enjoying the world
all you want and you may want to be mindful of what it is. Try to change the world in a way you
can't but you can keep trying all you want. You just have to understand that what you're trying
is an expression of your love for your fellow man. You know that you want the world for them to be
as better as you want to be better for yourself. Now some of you know, so I have done it often with
many of you and different occasions. Some of you know that I dream of a dream world where our
country's current party structure dies off. You know, no more republic rats I like to say. But
you know that I know that even I know that even if it does, even if the people I favor in the
political realm take over, you know, at the end of November, whatever it is that whatever
replaces the current system, I know it's still going to be screwed up. It's still going to be a
high holy mess, as they say, because it has to be. It has to be a high holy mess in order for people
to stay interested in the movie to keep in this reality. See, when I started this several years ago,
I was big on getting off the reel of reincarnation. Indeed, with a discipline like that,
the people who believe, you know, this and read the source revelation documents of the people who
said that they received this spiritually in another situation in a mystical sense. They believe that,
you know, in two or three lifetimes, if you consistently forgive everything that comes your way,
that you no longer have to be reincarnated. You'll actually get rid of it that quickly,
thanks to the help of the Holy Spirit. And at first, you know, I thought several years ago, wow,
you know, because for me, the biggest miracle in the Bible is the incarnation. I'm like, why would
you want to come into this? Right? That's how that's how integrating my personal outlook was on
the world. When I thought this, I often say to people that this has changed my life and it has
in this way. As I forgave, as I began doing this, and I have had mystical experiences over this,
I've had experiences for things and people around me just seem to turn to cartoons with little
flashes of white light around their edges and then they're gone, you know, it's kind of weird.
But that's just, you know, a signal that you're on the right path for you, you know, but as I did
this, and like I said, the Holy Spirit says, you don't have to learn this lesson anymore, and it goes
to the past, present, and future lives, removing the obstacle. Well, that means it's removing that
one bad nasty, gnarly aspect of your experiences regardless of what life, but as people in the dream,
as people in the illusion, what that means for us personally inside of this place is that the
bad experiences are being systematically removed from our future life. So you see, when you get to
that level, you're going to get to a point where your life becomes better and better. There's
nothing wrong with not wanting to reincarnate anymore. Nothing wrong. It's a noble goal. You might
want to do it someday. I invite you to try, but you see, if you do do that, that means your identity
is going to collapse. The things that make you you as opposed to making me, me, are going to
eventually deteriorate and the universe is going to shrink and we're going to merge into one,
and eventually you won't have any more units. The units will be gone. Eventually, eventually,
the simulation runs its course, and the oversold will forgive everything at once, and everything will
just collapse into another cycle in some way. And like I said, we want privilege to know all the levels
of reality. So as I did this, my life became better week after week, once after month, year after
year. And now I no longer am thinking, well, I got to get off the real over reincarnation because
you know what? I now know. If I did that, I wouldn't have, I wouldn't have Nathamations anymore,
I wouldn't have my wife anymore, I wouldn't have my free, beautiful, niece anymore, I wouldn't have
my computers anymore. I wouldn't have all the things that I love in this level. I can enjoy that so
much better now than I'm not being niddled by all these interpersonal dramas. I can't tell you
how wonderful it is. So there's one other thing about the old school forgiveness. You know,
our parents' forgiveness, I'm trying to differentiate this from that I want to, that I want to hammer
home at this ending of the speech. And that is that they had this idea that, you know what?
If I had a problem with you, you know, because you did something to me like I believed that.
You needed me to let you off the hook in some way. And I don't want you to ever think that you
have to forgive somebody for their sake because their sake is your sake. There's no difference.
There's no difference. Forgive people for your sake. Forgive people for what it makes you feel
better. Do it completely selfishly. Do it so that your blood pressure goes down. Do it so you
enjoy your next month of your life and enjoy it. So in that case, you know, I don't want to leave
anything out. I want to wrap up by giving you the short form, the really condensed version of
the forgiveness prayer because like I said, I'm not alone. I'm just one person who's an amateur at
this stuff. There's people who've more deeply involved with this than I am. And, you know, yes.
To hold a degree, you have to let go of the grudge. And it makes your life easier, right? That's
what your mother said. Very good. You're catching on. Excellent. Right? So
what we need to have is we need to have people who are not strong and judging each other.
I'm saying is we need to have people who are strong and forgiving each other. People are so strong
and forgiving each other that they forgive each other constantly by habit, by force of habit.
It's just automatic and everything. You'll see the enlightened people, you know, as you tread
your mystical path and you'll see the people who the everyone's going to tell you, they're all
enlightened, just as sure as the who's the nation's going to tell you that it's real. You know,
don't ever ask the who's the nation. If it's fake, it's going to tell you. I'll tell you right now.
It's going to say, oh, no, this is a real deal. You know, we know better, right? You know, but we need
to be strong and automatic in this action. And when we do achieve enlightenment, you know, then
people like my wife won't be able to say this. Plenty of things you don't forgive, because it won't
be true anymore once I get good at it. You know, eventually everything becomes water off the duck.
And really, if you can look at your life and say, water off the duck, you could jump right out of
your life if you wanted to. You know, I don't know anyone like that. And they might be around me.
I wouldn't know they might be doing it like when I'm not looking, right? I don't know. Sure.
No, I did not say that God is not perfect. That's a God is perfect.
I like God's creation is perfect. Our dream. Our dream.
All right, even home stakes of this example, world war two cities,
ease. Have we never know it? Okay. You can't have good without that.
Don't get nervous. Don't need.
Yeah.
Yeah.
For giving secondary suggestions that are out of them, because everything that's of God,
mm-hmm. But everything that's for the domain where you actually
desolation, death, et cetera.
A single. No?
No?
I just want to see if I understand your comment correctly.
It's just between you and me and the audience.
Um, you know, would it be right to say that we can forbid communication to evil,
spirits, and let's get closer to the Lord that way. Would that be an act?
I think I'm following you then. Thank you for the clarification.
Okay, so I'm glad you brought up your love for for our spouse and our wives,
because we happen to have a little joke the people who do the forgiveness discipline.
We like to say that my spouse is my best lesson in forgiveness.
Yeah, aspects of both. So.
So, you know, some things we found out from experience, you know, and that is that I'm wrapping
up. Thank you for the time. Um, is that it's very rude to take a long pause in the middle
of a conversation to pray for someone's forgiveness. They tend to notice if they use the long
form for air. So I want to give you the short version. That will be my conclusion,
because it's also my way of giving a benediction at the same time.
And I always go for a double and tinder. So here's a short form that says all the things
that the long form says, but really, really thirsty. All right. Your creature of pure spirit,
whole and innocent, and everything's forgiven and released. Thank you. Thank you for hearing me.
Holy smoke. I'm actually within my time limit. Um, so take a breath of guys. Come back at 12 noon.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio. Our Hacker Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday,
Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener
like yourself. If you ever considered recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out
how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and new
phenomenon computer club. HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects
are crowd-responsive by linear pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunar pages.com for all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is
released under a creative commons, attribution, share a like, lead us our lives.
