Episode: 1124
Title: HPR1124: PodBrewers: Episode 35
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1124/hpr1124.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 19:28:33

---

Howdy folks, this is 5150.
Today I'm happy to introduce a syndication with Hacker Public Radio, a podcast that has
been my pleasure to take a small part in Pod Brewers, which you can find over at www.podbrewers.net.
As you may know, this podcast airs two nights a week over the new radio.net, with Tracy
Holster Holts and Steve Dordador Geek McLaughlin on Monday and Byer Brown and Spork Saber on
Friday evenings.
In this episode 35, from early July, we take some beers and Spork Saber talks about some
of the off-flavors you may find in your home brew, what causes them, and how to
avoid them, enjoy.
Hey there ladies and gentlemen, once again, back here's the incredible Byer Brown coming
to you from the East Coast.
I am your deep dark chocolate imperial stout, and I am here with my brother from another
mother all the way on the other side of the planet, it's worth saving, well, maybe not
the planet, but on the other side of the continent, it's worth saving, well, yeah, gluten-tied
hair buyer, gluten-baw, best pork, how's it going man, this is Spork Saber your California
common, coming from the West Coast, everything's been going good out here, it has been nice
and warm, how about over there?
Well, it has been a scorcher all the way around brother, you see the United States is on fire,
boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, ahh, but in any case, it's hot.
Hot, yes, yes it is, you know what happens when it gets hot, right?
ahh, you got a drinker, you got a chocolate baby, that sounds like your good idea to me,
hey, did you, did you buy any chance to catch a last week's episode, you probably didn't
because there wasn't one, yeah, yeah, I did not, I have been, I have been doing some running
as usual, but everything this week, this week, everything calms down, and I will let
you know about that a little bit later on in the show when I get into my buyer announcements,
but I'm sure that you checked out the show that was before, that was before, that was before,
right?
Yes, I did, and I reviewed that show, but I do have something to say, and that is on the,
this one's a little edit, goof on my part, I remember when I reviewed that a coach
for the beer FYI, yeah.
Well, that entire time I was calling it a logger and talking about how amazing it was,
that it was, you know, a logger, but it was brewed at AL temperatures and all this other stuff,
well, in my research, I must have been mistaken because a coach is an AL,
it's brewed with AL yeast when I was looking up, I actually found out that the,
that a coach yeast is an AL yeast, the part I was getting confused with,
since I had no clue what the heck a coach was, was when I was reading about it,
the confusing part was a coach is a little different than regular ALs,
because it's brewed at AL temperatures, but after fermentation stops,
it's cold conditioned or loggered at lower temperatures.
Ah, got you, got you.
Okay, well, alright, sorry, there's no wrong, hey, look,
we're going to get some things wrong from time to time, you know I'm going to get some things wrong.
But that's okay, I'm okay with it.
As long as we come back and correct our mistakes, then, hey, no harm, no foul,
and that's how you learned though, right?
Well, see what was cool is that you actually went back and investigated and did, you know, some studying,
because if you just was like, oh, I'm just going to read this and throw it up for the show,
and you know, if it was all about that, then you never would have caught it, right?
You never would have went back and caught it.
That just shows you that we are proactively learning about how to brew and different things about brew,
and we're having a great time doing it.
So, best believe, just like Sports Aver did right now.
If we make a mistake, we're going to come back and let you know that we made that mistake,
and correct that mistake.
And, you know, my hat's off to your brother, that's why I love you, man.
Thank you very much, Byron.
Do we have any announcements?
We always have an announcements, even when we don't have an announcements, there will be announcements.
My first announcements is I heard my big toe.
That's right, I heard my big toe.
I bet when you heard it, you made some announcements.
I made a lot of announcements, and then I drank a really cool beer.
Another thing that you can do with ice cold beer is put it on your toe before you drink it.
Nice.
All right.
How'd you drink your toe?
I was on my way to doing a pod brewers episode.
You remember last week or the week before?
Remember I said something bad happened.
Remember I was going, how?
Remember that?
Yes, I do.
I hit my toe off the couch, and I ripped my toenail, clean off my foot.
Oh, okay, out.
Yeah, that was that day I was drinking a high ABV.
So everything was going okay.
Well, everything was going okay until the couch versus toe incident.
Yeah, yeah, toe lost on that one.
Well, this sucker is still aching, man.
Well, I guess that's to be expected, right?
Very true.
Yeah, man, this thing is bleep.
No, no, I was not believing, but it's like, it's blistered.
You know that when you feel like there's a heartbeat and something?
Yes.
That throb thing, boop, boop, boop, boop.
That's what my foot, that's what my toe feels like.
It's filling kind of throbby.
In any case, I do have another announcement to throw out there.
And that other announcement is I have bottled my keeper.
Oh, nice.
Yes, and it tastes very, very good.
And what I did was I left a little bit of sugar in there.
The sports area, do you know why I left some sugar in there?
Uh, so that I could work its magic in carbonate.
Normally, yes, but there's another reason.
Do you think why?
You may not know, and don't feel bad if you don't.
Uh, let's see.
Uh, you did it so that it would boost the vitamin B count.
Vitamin B count.
And that's because the keyfer is that whole microbiome organism.
Can you think of what I might be doing with this water later?
Putting it on your toe.
I might, I just might.
Maybe putting the keyfer water in with your into your beard at some point.
I do use going to get it.
Yes, I am going to be taking this particular water keeper.
And I did something actually a little bit cooler with it.
What I did was I took my bear plant fluid and my water keeper fluid.
And I mixed it together and I am now getting ready to put it into my Mr. Bear Kid.
Sweet.
I know it's going to be.
Now, this stuff has sort of a citrusy kind of feel to it.
Even though I didn't, this particular batch, I do not have citrus.
And I do not have lemon in it.
Uh, so, but it has that kind of citrus, almost sour kind of taste to it.
So I'm going to do an experiment with tea leaves with this one.
I'm going to do experiment with, uh, in my Mr. Bear Kid with, uh,
I'm actually going to change the yeast.
I'm going to use a champagne yeast instead.
And, um, I'm going to see what happens.
And instead of using hops, I'm going to use green tea for bittering.
Interesting.
Okay, so you're going to, you're going to use what one of the Mr. Bear Kid, uh,
little cans, or are you going to go down to your home brew store and get some malts and everything,
or some, a different, uh, extracts.
I'm going to use the golden, uh, the golden blonde.
Mr., Mr. Bear, I'm going to use the blonde.
Uh, and I'm going to mix that with the water.
And I'm going to, I'm going to prepare it properly.
But you remember that part where you pour, uh, the remainder of water to the cooling water on top of your wort?
Yeah.
Instead, this time, I'm going to fast cool my wort, uh, in the cooler, actually,
instead of adding, uh, the cool water on top of it.
And the reason being is because, again, the kefir water and ginger beer water,
they're both alive.
There still are, there's yeasting in kefir and beer plant and bacteria that are still in there alive and kicking.
And I don't want to throw those on hot wort because it'll, it'll kill it.
And basically, it will, you know, uh, this, it'll ruin my experiment, right?
So what I'm trying to do here is I want the water kefir, uh, organisms to live.
I want them to actually live.
So I'm going to cool things down. I'm going to quick cool my wort.
Uh, get it in there to the Mr. Bear Kit and I'm going to add the extra water,
which is going to be the kefir ginger beer fluid water on top of that.
When I enter it in there, they will be alive.
Not only will they be alive, but they will be in this wort.
Make sure that has plenty of sugars to eat.
Then I'm going to throw in my champagne yeast.
Reason being is that the champagne yeast will be able to withstand higher levels of alcohol.
Uh, this should bring about a combination of, of vitamin B enriched beer is my plan with, uh,
using green tea as the bittering agent.
That's interesting. When are you, you know, when are you thinking about, uh, adding the green tea?
I'm going to do that on a, uh, I believe.
I'm thinking, I'm thinking I'm actually going to do that in a second for a mentor.
Okay. So are you going to be wrecking your Mr. Beard to a different,
or your, your wort into a different, uh, for a mentor,
or are you just going to brew it and add it in later,
maybe like it bottling or something?
Exactly. I bottling, I believe.
Okay. Cool. That sounds pretty good actually.
Well, that's going to do it for my announcements today.
And, uh, I guess it's time for Poets Corner.
Yes, it is. Let's hear it.
Well, today's Poets Corner is called Hopps,
and that's by Bruis, uh, past,
tournic, past, tournic.
And that is between 1890 and 1960.
And here we go.
Beneath the willow,
wound round with ivory.
We take a cover from the worst of the storm,
with the great coast round our shoulders,
and my hand around your waist.
I've got it wrong.
This is an ivy in a twine with the bushes round the woods,
but hops.
You're intoxicating me. Let's spread that great coast on the ground.
Nice. I like it.
Ha, ha, ha, ha.
All right, so...
Hold on one second.
You know, something by all these things,
talking about, uh,
talking about beer,
hanging your little Poets corners,
and stuff like that.
You know, also talking about beer.
It makes me thirsty.
All right, sorry for that little delay.
So what are you bringing?
Well, I am bringing to the table, uh,
Maximus.
Maximus.
Now, this is an honor
of one of my favorite shows I love.
And that is, um,
Spartacus.
Spartacus.
You ever see Spartacus on stars?
Yes, I did. And I have.
I love that show.
I love, love, love that show.
Yeah, I watched probably maybe the first, uh, couple of episodes,
and then we switched from stars to HBO.
So I have a lot of sense.
Oh, you've been checking out true blood.
Yeah, my wife's in love with that show.
Everyone's wife is in love with that show.
Ha, ha, ha, ha.
Yeah, but I had to stick with Spartacus.
I love Spartacus.
And, uh, the new series of Spartacus is going to be coming out this coming January.
But right now, if you guys got stores,
anybody out there who's listening,
you can definitely check out the older episodes of Spartacus.
And it's well worth the watch.
Awesome.
You can also check that out over,
check that out over on Netflix as well.
But this particular brood that I'm bringing to the table is called Maximus.
And it is an American double, uh, Imperial IPA.
Sporksaber, what's an IPA?
An IPA is an Indian pale ale.
Awesome.
Yeah. And Tracy talks about that, uh,
shoot a while back on a little,
he gave a little bit of history on what an IPA is.
Really good.
Yeah, definitely.
What's your brand to the table?
I am bringing a Gordon Beersh,
Meritzen.
Uh, Meritzen is an Amber Logger.
And I totally was looking on the wrong page of the show notes.
Ha, ha, ha.
And it's an Amber Logger.
It's, uh, coming in at 5.8
on the ABV Rector Scale.
The IBUs are an whopping 18.
Um, the yeast that it uses is, uh,
Vine Stefanner, uh, 3470.
And with, uh,
halitower hops, uh, for the aroma.
Cool. That sounds exciting, actually.
And we also have a treat for you guys.
Today we have 5150.
And Red's Wharf is going to be, uh,
trying some brews today as well.
I'm going to jump on over there to, uh,
Hey, 5150.
What do you have in your brewing hand?
Well, actually, this is going to be a
virtual, uh, review.
I got, uh, cup.
Well, about a week ago,
12 Beers of Summer, uh,
from Sarnack.
And I had it before last year.
I'm not sure they're exactly the same Beers.
I don't, I didn't remember being that impressed,
but there was a standout in it this year,
uh, which is their RI IPA.
Sounds awesome.
Awesome, awesome.
Red dwarf, what you got?
Well, I have, uh,
Black Bavarian Style Logger.
It's got, uh,
6% alcohol content.
And it comes in a little bottle.
16 ounces.
Should be interesting.
All right.
So we've spent there out in the middle.
And that sounds all right.
All right. So, uh, Sporceva.
I don't know what you want to do.
You want to start guzzling yours,
or you want to, uh, who wants to go first?
Why don't you go first, Spirer?
Fine.
This is coming in at 8.2.
I did mention that, and it's brewed in California.
Yes, it is.
Yes, it is. All right.
So, I'm going to try mine now.
And what we're going to do here.
Let's see if I can get this.
I don't know.
That wasn't a good compile,
but all right.
Let's try this, Sporceva.
I'm going to be doing a Pennsylvania quick wrist.
I don't know if y'all heard that or not.
That was kind of a silent port.
Well, I got to tell you right now.
I'm looking at this brew,
and I'm going to tell you what.
This lovely lady I have in my hands right now.
The first thing that jumps out at me is the color.
I love this color.
It's like a reddish brown kind of color,
and I like it.
And there is some nice, effervescent bubbles coming
from the bottom of the snifter glass.
Definitely traveling straight up there to the top.
The head on this is nice.
It's a nice, not overwhelming head.
It's not like rich and thick,
but it's a respectable head.
It's like, hey, you know, I'm here.
And the smell.
Hmm.
Now, the smell, that reminds me of the grapefruit type smell.
But not exactly the grapefruit.
Not exactly grapefruit.
I don't know.
It's almost very like and sense.
But citrusy, but not citrusy, like a strong grapefruit.
So the bouquet.
I like it.
Normally, when I smell the grapefruit or citrusy type smell,
it reminds me of hops and things of that nature.
So I'm wondering if this is going to be a, you know,
a hoppy experience with this.
Without further ado, let's go ahead and get the sippin'.
That's not bad.
That's not bad.
Hmm.
Yeah.
Definitely just like I expected.
I expected a hoppy experience.
And it's not unsatisfying.
And I got to tell you what, this is an 8.2, but to me,
this is an example of an NSL.
So it's not like your oatmeal stouts or your imperial stouts.
Although this is considered to be sort of,
and this is considered to be an imperial IPA.
But it has what, what different is,
is that with the higher ABV,
it doesn't have that alcohol taste.
It doesn't have that liquor taste.
It tastes like a lower APV type drink.
And I don't know if you guys remember,
some time ago, we did a review on,
there was a brew that we, can I remember the name?
But it had a higher, the taste almost tasted
like it had a higher APV.
Well, this is sort of the, right in the opposite of it.
This has a higher APV, ABV,
but it tastes like a session beer.
And it tastes like a hoppy session beer
that's pleasing to the tongue.
Oh, it sounds really good.
Who's that brewed by?
Do you know, is that a laganitas?
That's exactly who it is.
It's laganitas.
And laganitas Maximus IPA.
And, you know, I don't have anything.
I gotta say, you know what?
This beer does not jump out at me.
Like, it doesn't.
I'm not overly thrilled with it in the sense of like,
wow, that's great beer.
You know, I'm not like that.
But I'm not like, oh my gosh.
Do you remember that one I tried before?
It was off the air?
Oh, yeah.
It's not like that.
And for the listeners, I tried this other brew.
I will not tell about it another day.
But it was, wow, it was bad.
But we have our thoughts on why it may have been bad.
But in any case, this is an interesting brew.
Not very complex.
Tastes like a session beer, but has the kick of a higher ABV beer.
So I'm not disappointed in this brew.
I'm not overly happy.
But I wouldn't be mad if it was handed to me.
What do you think you'll score it?
I'm gonna give this a respectable five.
All right, cool.
All right.
I'll get on with mine.
And then we'll let the other two speak about their beer.
Here goes the pour.
Don't know if you guys heard that.
One day, one day I'm gonna figure out how to pour my beer through that way.
All right.
This is a nice amber color.
It's the medicine.
Smell of it.
Smelling really multi.
I almost want to say a rich multi.
Given a couple more smells.
I'm smelling definitely like caramel and stuff like that in there.
All right.
I'll give it a taste.
I'm getting it's not bitter at all.
I'm definitely tasting the malt.
I almost want to say a little sweet.
Maybe a little bit of the hops near the end or the finish of the beer.
Yeah, this is a little bit.
I want to say a caramel or roast.
Roasted something near the end right before the really slight hop taste.
Anyway, this is a pretty good medicine.
I've definitely had better.
One of the places near here makes an awesome medicine.
So let's see.
One more taste and I'll give you my review.
I'm gonna give this probably, I want to say, maybe a five and a half.
We'll go with the six.
It's a little bit, I want to say highly carbonated.
It's a little bit more carbonated than I might like.
Now I have no clue whether or not how carbonated it's supposed to be.
I'm not a beer tasting judge or anything.
But yeah, let's go with the six.
Awesome.
That sounds like a really good, respectable point.
I don't know.
Do you see yourself going out and buying it again?
It came in one of those seasonal packs.
So yes, Maritzen's are one of my favorite, along with my box.
They're one of my favorite beers.
I would say that the Gordon beer is easy to find and it's easier to find closer by than the
from the place that I normally go to get Maritzen.
So yeah, yeah, I would definitely buy it again.
It's by no means a, oh this was great to try and we'll leave it alone.
Now this is a, if I'm out and I don't like any of the other beers in the store, I would get this one.
Cool, cool.
All right, well I'm liking how that sounds and it's something that I definitely would like to try myself.
Red Dwarf, what's up? You got to bury your hand?
Well, I was going to let 5150 go.
He's more experienced at this than I am.
I'll let him go first.
No problem at all, 5150.
All right, and like I said, this is going to be a virtual review that likes forks.
This beer came from one of those summer variety packs from Sarnak, S-A-R-A-N-A-C in my case.
And I had one of the packs last year and I didn't remember being all that impressed.
But a couple of weeks ago I picked the head on the discount rack at the package store and I looked like good to try.
I thought maybe we'll go back through it again now to have a little more experience knowing what these flavors are that I'm describing in the beer.
And actually, it was my intent when I picked it up.
It said, okay, it's a 12 pack with two bottles of each beer and what I'm going to do is I'm going to drink the first six of the unique beers and then set the other six duplicates back in the corner.
And I'll bring them out for this show as necessary for review.
But as it turns out, I didn't get to the store and when I finished harvest a week ago, that was about the only beer left in the house.
And guys, I'm only human and I missed the show last week anyway.
But the one that really stood out, it's because I hadn't had a similar beer, is the Rye IPA.
And so, rather than being wary, we've had wheat beer and, you know, you've had holster talk about Antsport talk about sort of a biscuit-y taste.
Imagine that was a Rye IPA, crisp instead.
And as a wheat farmer, I hate to be talking about a Rye beer because if Tracy and Riteo are listening to this, they could both tell you that Rye is the bane of the wheat farmer because it's such a similar plant as any chemical that can separate the two out.
So the only way to get Rye out of your wheat field is to physically pull it or use a wicking device that swipes across the Rye with the herbicide because it's a taller plant.
But Rye, I really, really like that taste, but those of you who have heard my previous reviews, I am not a huge IPA guy. I'm not that big on hops.
This was not a hugely hopped beer, though I am looking at the company's page, and they describe it as an aggressively hopped beer, and all I can say is they must not have tasted any of their competitors who are going around saying our hops are bigger than your hops.
So I'd rather say this is a good middle of the road, the hops are not washing over the rest of the flavor and the beer.
However, if anybody out there knows a brand, a Rye-based beer that is brewed more like a wheat beer with your citrusy flavors and your coriander, and all that in there, and not a lot of hoppy flavor, please write into the show because I would really like to tell my friend to run a liquor store what he could order.
But I would give this beer at least until I find a Rye-based beer that is more like the one I'm looking for that I've described.
I'm going to give it a 5.5, I would definitely buy it again if I could find it by itself in the 6-pack. I'll call it by volume, here on the web page it says a little more, it should 5.5 on the bottle, it says 5.95 here on the manufacturer's web page.
Rival gravity 14.0, beer style, India Pale Ale, malt selections to Rye, hop selections, and I'm going to butcher these names.
Howard Howe and SAS, color golden, mouthfeel body medium. So yeah, this isn't the greatest beer I ever had, but it puts me out there looking for a Rye-based beer that is more like the types of beers that I like to drink.
That's actually a really good review. There is a style called the Rogan Beer, which is R-O-G-G-E-N-B-I-E-R, that is a Rye-Weat Beer.
So I'll keep a look out and I'll ask some of my homebrew club would know of a good one.
Well thanks Bork, I appreciate that, and I see it looks like we've lost buyer.
Oh no!
Oh yeah, we sure did, oh well. I'll just have to keep going without him.
Maybe he'll show up again.
But anyway, let's see.
Is buyer back now?
Right here ladies and gentlemen.
Alright, cool, and since we had talked so much about beers and stuff, let's get on with the foods that go along with our yummy beers.
Yummy yummy yummy yummy yummy grubs in my tummy. What do you have for us?
I got a Mertson barbecue ribs.
Now you know, you know you ain't right. I love some ribs. I don't like that some ribs right now.
Yeah, this actually comes from, yeah same here. Excuse me, this actually comes from the Gordon Beer site. I love this site because they give so much information about what they're beers brewed with.
And then it gives food pairing, you know, how to cook with it.
So it's going right along with some of the, you know, meanness that we have on this show.
This is Mertson barbecue ribs.
This is a sauce for three racks of ribs, and that's going to be a quarter cup olive oil, one large onion, one quarter cup chopped garlic.
One quart of your favorite barbecue sauce, three, I'm sorry, one quarter cup of molasses, a quarter cup of canned pureed chipotle chilies. Oh my goodness, I'm loving this already.
Oh my gosh, you did not say chipotle chilies.
Oh yeah.
And one bottle of Gordon Beer's Mertson.
Dude, that's sounding great.
Yeah, it is. And the first time I looked it over, I totally missed the chipotle chilies. So yeah, this is definitely going into the recipe book.
Yeah, you know, I don't even want to say, I don't even want to say mine. I don't want to say mine.
You know, if you leave out the barbecue sauce, which would make it really thick, you could turn this into a really good marinade.
It good, most certainly good. That is awesome. I like that. I'm going to try it.
Well, shoot, I'm thinking I have to marinate a prime rib for the Fourth of July.
I say we do it. You know what? If you can, I don't know. Do you have a video cam or, you know, like a video capture on your camera, your camera on your phone or anything?
Yes, my video camera does have video capture capabilities. It's a new feature that they just came out with this year. I don't know if last year's model has. This year's does.
And if, if yours doesn't, then I have a cassette tape video camera that I'll let you borrow.
Okay, bye. That's funny. In any case, I'm going to tell you my recipe, although it's not even the word near. How do you follow that? How do you follow ribs? I can't follow ribs.
But in hey case, I'm going to give you Guinness glazed halibut. I did it for the halibut. All right. So this, this recipe is coming out. Now, I'm going to tell you what, ladies and gentlemen, this is nowhere near as cool as pork sabers. But at the same time, this is a good recipe, especially if you are looking to, you know, watch the wasteland a little bit. This is very what I would consider to be nice and healthy.
Healthy eating along along the lines of, you know, you're working out and stuff and you still like to have a little bit of brew in your cooking. And this is, this is right up the right alley for that. So what you're looking at is a two 12 hours bottles of Guinness style, one or a third, one third cup of honey. All right. That's going to be the, that's going to be the glazing agent.
You have one tablespoon of fresh lemon juice, of course, if you can do organic and one half teaspoon of hot sauce, along with salt, four ounces of skinless halibut, fillets, four large carrots, you know, that's nice and healthy.
As well as extra virgin olive oil, again, very healthy and fresh ground pepper, again, very healthy. So the only thing inherited I would probably be careful on is I would cut back on the salt a little bit only because you're going to be doing a half teaspoon of hot sauce, which hot sauce tends to have a high amount of sodium in it.
So I would probably maybe even cut back on the salt a little bit, but other than that, the two Guinness, you're going to get a lot of different carbs and things that are going to be coming out of the Guinness, you're going to get some good, healthy carbs and what not.
It's going to be coming out of that honey. Try to do organic honey, if you can. And it's only a third cup of honey. So it's not going to be overwhelming. Plus remember, you're spreading this out over top of six, you know, four different halibut here.
So it's not like you got like all of this all on one halibut. So this is what I consider to be, you know, great healthy eating right here and cooking along with your brew as well.
Yeah, that sounds really good. I'm going to try it out just for the halibut.
That's what a halibut. So it indicates, yeah, man, I'm digging this dish.
Oh, that sounds really, really good. Hey, while you're talking, I saw that red put in the chat that he's ready. Red, did you have something?
Yeah, I've got a spreader black, but the variant style, longer. And putting the beer advocate is a bronze metal winner in the European Dark Stickery, the 1988 Great American Beer Festival.
Rock and roll. Yeah.
And get to drink in my friend. All right. Well, it definitely reminds me of a chocolate that I had a while back.
And from what I read in here, it's got roasted moths with caramel, vanilla and chocolate. I'm going to see what kind of a noise I can make in this glass.
Not exactly a sports saver, but you did hear a little bit there. Definitely dark, definitely dark.
And the way I poured it had about a two-inch head to start. And it's going down a bit, not as fast as I thought it would.
Yeah, it's definitely looking through this clear beverage glass. It's definitely dark. And I think I will partake the taste.
Now, admittedly, my palate is nothing in training compared to you guys. But I definitely see the taste that chocolate is talking about.
I totally honest. I don't know that much about the malt taste. And that sort of thing. But it's definitely a smooth.
I recommend 45 degrees for serving, which to be honest, I'm always the type that no matter what it is, whether it's milk or tea or beer or whatnot, I love it really cold.
I agree. I agree too. I love it when it's cold. I also like it to, if you get a chance, if you don't puzzle it down, starting off super cold. But then allowing it to warm up just a little bit usually introduces a couple of other flavors.
Yeah, definitely. I think at OLF I'm going to do some more training as to understanding the pops, tastes and things of that nature.
By the way, the head has gone down a lot. It's down to about a quarter of an inch thick, which from a little bit of reading idea, that's pretty typical of it.
And it's a nice beer, six present volume, alcohol by volume. And it's one I consider getting again. I've only paid two and a half for it. So that's not too bad.
No, not at all, not at all. So you're not angry at the beer and you would definitely recommend it.
Yeah, I wouldn't go around writing the lawnmower drinking it, but I think it'd be nice to sit back and relax with.
God, all you people out there with your writing lawnmowers.
I know. I always had a lot of writing lawnmower.
It would take me about three seconds to mow my yard. I'd like drive out, turn around, drive back and get off. I wouldn't even be able to finish a beer.
Yeah, well, it would definitely take me a little longer for my ins, but yeah, I wish I had a lot of writing lower though.
Well, I'll make it even worse. At work, I don't do it now because I'm working in a building that's used as a community center, but in the past for about 12 years, 13 years, something like that.
I was on a mower of one type or another or a weed whip and drove zero turns at most recently.
Zero turns and about a hundred and ten inch triple deck mower.
Nice. Sounds nice.
That was neat for golf course and not real good for parks, because it sucks up all the dirt that you kick up.
Oh, gotcha. Gotcha.
Well, you in Peter 6040 to have a mower off.
Mower races like they have on TV.
It's funny, we were just looking at something that was, oh yeah, the local senior newspaper is talking about racing lawn mowers.
I'd say I'd rate this about a five, four somewhere in that neighborhood.
Yeah, it's a decent beer.
Awesome, awesome. Well, you know, we're talking about a whole lot of flavors out here and right down from 151 to red dwarf to sport to myself, having all these different experiences and flavors that we are enjoying here.
Sports saver. You got anything to talk about that?
Yeah, I do, actually, and this week's beer FYI is home brew off flavors on how to avoid.
That flavor is a little bit off. Tastes like green apples. What am I tasting?
What you're tasting is a word that I'm going to have to be really hard pressed to say correctly.
It is a stale the hide. The taste slash smell like a, smells like a green apples or rotten apples or fresh cut pumpkin.
The possible causes for this is, it's a naturally occurring chemical produced by your yeast during fermentation and is usually converted into ethyl alcohol.
Although this process may take longer in beers of higher alcohol content when non-nuff yeast is pitched.
Some bacteria can cause the green apple flavors as well. And how you avoid this is let your beer agent condition over a couple of months time to kind of get those flavors off.
What it that'll do is give the yeast time to convert some of the acetylde hide into the ethyl alcohol.
Yeah, so that is one of the things that can be an off flavor. Now, just to preface this, I've got a lot of these.
So if you've got an off flavor, it's probably going to be in one of these descriptions.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to break this down. Probably I'll do a little bit of it this week and a little bit of it next week and maybe even a little bit of it the week after that.
That way we can spread these out and not have a really long show. The next one is alcoholic.
And overpowering alcoholic flavor, bitter or bitterness, acetone, paint thinner, type of a smell or taste, spicier sharp and undesirable hot sensation in the throat.
The possible causes of this are fusel alcohols such as profanol, butarol and some other ones that I'm not going to pronounce.
Now, what these do, it's and oh gosh, a limited amount of these alcohols can be desirable in high alcohol content beers and barley, barley wines or strong, strong ails.
Now, the way that you can, what it comes from is fermenting it to high temperature. And ways to avoid it is ferment, don't ferment or avoid fermenting at temperatures over 80 degrees.
Now, I do realize that, like I said before, some beers, especially sezones, they'll start off at a lower temperature and some of them try to actually try to get it up to almost blood temperature in order to get the right flavors that they're looking for.
Also, if your beer is going to be sitting in the fermenter for more than a couple of weeks, it's a good idea to remove as much of the sediment as possible. So, racking into a secondary can help with the fusel alcohol tastes.
Now, I got to ask you sport, and when it comes to, especially now the alcoholic one, that sounds like it could be painful. So, but when it comes to the one that you told us before that, the acalaide, if I said that even remotely, right.
The one that gives you the green apples, red apples, fresh cut pumpkin, is there, do you know of a way, or maybe can we look up maybe in a future episode, is there a way to isolate that?
Because in my mind, what I see, especially with the harvest season coming, going into Thanksgiving, that fresh cut pumpkin smell, to me that would be desirable if we kind of maybe crafted a pumpkin-type brew.
That would be interesting to try and find out. I'm thinking that like the green apple taste, you know, that sour, sour-ish type of a taste to it, that might be pretty nice as well.
I'm imagining the way to reproduce it, don't pitch as much yeast, stress out those yeast, and they're not going to eat up all the as much stuff and produce that alcohol. But we'll look into it, see whether we can get that yummy pumpkin taste.
Yeah, I think that it would be a good experiment for pot brewers. Why don't we, because well, of course, you know, as I was describing my whole key for thing, you can tell that I'm definitely into the whole experimental-type situation.
So I'm thinking, well, we try to isolate some of these things and see if we can do that. Maybe we can isolate a particular smell naturally without any artificial, you know, ingredients.
That might be nice. I'm actually my father-in-law is actually, he planted some giant pumpkins, and I'm planning on scooping those out and making like a pumpkin IPA inside the pumpkin.
Oh, like actually do the brewing in the pumpkin? Yeah, scoop out the insides, throw that away, and the reason I'm using an IPA is because I want to put a lot of hops in there, because hops, remember, like with IPAs, are used as a preservative, a natural preservative.
So I'm thinking that brewing an IPA inside that pumpkin will help the pumpkin not to rot. So taking it, scooping it all out, making an IPA work, pouring it in there, and, you know, I don't know, maybe even throwing just a little bit of spice in there to hopefully get some back-end pumpkin spice or something like that.
So now what I'm wondering is what other fruit or vegetable can we scoop out and actually do brewing using the vegetable or fruit as the fermenter?
This is a whole nother episode. I agree. I'm liking this. All right, let's move on with this stuff. I'll only do two or three more because we are kind of running just a little bit.
We're not running long yet, but we're getting close to closing time. Yeah, most certainly. Yeah, why don't you give us like, let's get two more in.
All right, two more. One, a stringentness. And that is, that's going to be a tartness of vinegary tannins. This is kind of like, if you were to take a tea bag and suck on it after you did your tea, you know, that really, I want to say a tart taste. You know what I'm talking about?
Oh, yeah, most certainly. All right, a stringent seed can be caused by a whole bunch of different things. Polyphenols or tannins are probably the majority of those type of flavors. And those are found in the husks and the skins of the grains or rather the husks of the grains and the skins of the fruit.
Steeping grains too long or too high of a temperature or when you mill them, milling them too much, you'll release the tannins in the either the fruits or the malt grains that you're going to be mashing.
Also, when your mash exceeds a pH of 5.2 or 5.6, a stringent flavors can also be produced. Over hopping, your beer can tend to lend a hand in creating these astringent qualities. How to avoid this?
Avoid grains that have been overmilled. So what you should get when you, if you go down in the store and have them mill your grain or if you have a grain mill yourself or if you mill it yourself just at the store, you don't want it to be really finely crushed.
It should be a good mix of husks. Some of the husks you just want to have been broken apart. You want to have some of the inside of the grains there and you want to have some of the, some itty bitty parts that look almost like flour.
So if you pick up your grains and look at that, you'll get a good feel for whether you're crushing it too much or not.
When sparring, pay close attention to the temperature and amount of water you use. When steeping your grains, be sure to take them out of the water before it gets to a boil.
Fruits should never be put into boiling water instead add them to the fermenter. I wouldn't say could never be boiled but I'm reading off of the astringent part of this site that will be in the show notes.
And let's see, it can be, I would agree though you can put them in the secondary or the primary fermenter or put them in at the last 15 to 30 to 15 minutes of the boil. That seems reasonable to me.
Make sure that the amount and varieties of hops are, you know, I wouldn't say correct for your style of beer but, but make sure that you don't put too many or too much in there.
That's, it's going to make it overly happy for say a, a, a pale ale. That way you won't get any real astringent qualities in there.
Yeah, definitely, you know, the only one, the first one is something that I would like to visit but those other two, the alcohol and the astringent, I think I'll leave that one in the bottle.
No, you just said, uh huh, well, are you was sipping on a brew, that was a brew, uh huh.
Yeah, it was.
Hey, you know what, I, the one thing I want to ask, uh 5150, you're in the forming, right?
Right.
Whenever you're out there on them golden greens, did it ever smell like brew?
Well, if you, if you get a silo fall week that's wet, yeah, that's what it smells like.
Really? So in a sense, you have like the world's largest fermenter.
Well, not on purpose.
At least that's what we're going to tell the guys back in the office.
I think we should just turn 5150's silo into a giant fermenter. What do you say for work?
I say at the very least we could, uh, have him melt the grains for us.
5150 molt grains.
It sounds like a good product.
There's another show topic to actually talk about the, uh, the grain molting process and what, what all goes into it.
Yeah, it is. That would be a great topic for, uh, another episode.
All right, uh, last but not least, at least for today, I'm going to go with, uh, chlorofenal.
Now, eh, I don't even sound pretty.
No, I sound like a swimming pool or something.
This is a plastic key or vinyl, even though iodine taste or smell to, to your beer.
Why are these getting nastier as they go along?
Well, the next one's citeri.
Yeah, there's a chlorofenal.
These are all flavors because see, this is, this was my problem.
Well, when I first started out, I mean, shoot, even, even nowadays, I might get a, an off flavor in my beer and have no clue how to describe it.
No clue whatsoever. I'm like, okay, I know there's something wrong here, but I don't, I don't know what it is.
Uh, so I started looking at this stuff and I'm like, okay, if I get a kind of that, I almost want to say a plastic key taste to it, I'll, I'll know what it is, what causes it and how to avoid it.
Or if my, if my beer is tasting really citeri or almost wine like, then I'll know what it is and how to change it.
That's my purpose with telling you guys these.
Okay, well, and we're glad, we're definitely glad you're telling us, but man, the first one was all like green apples and fresh cut pumpkins.
Then it was like burning hot acid alcohol down your throat. I a dine and every other like just creature like.
Well, see, your beer could have a, could taste great, but can have that last little, little, little taste of, I almost want to say soap to it.
Yeah, like you think you haven't rinsed out your, your container too well and I'll probably get into this later, but that's cause, that can be caused by leaving your beer on the yeast for too long, because the live yeast will have eaten up everything in there.
And they'll still try and be surviving and they'll start eating some of the dead yeast that's there and basically producing this same base materials as soap.
Wait a minute, you're telling me that the yeast is going to turn into cannibals and then they're going to be like zombies.
There's zombie yeast in the beer.
That'll hold another episode.
Yeah, yeah, that would be great.
Zombie yeast, we're going to, you know what, we're going to keep that for Halloween.
All right, then.
Go ahead, red.
This sounds like a door to door geek beer.
Zombies, we should make a beer cause zombie something.
We should brew a zombie beer.
That would be pretty good. I like it.
All right, the chlorofenals.
Using chlorinated tap water to brew or rinse your equipment is the most common cause for plastic like or medicinal flavors.
Medicinal flavors can also be the result of using cleaners or sanitizers that use chlorine or that are chlorine or iodine based.
Some wild yeast will contribute to the same or similar medicinal flavors.
How to avoid this? Don't use chlorinated water to brew or rinse your equipment or to rinse the equipment that will come in contact with your brew.
If chlorinated water must be used like you don't have anything, use a water filter that removes chlorine or boil your water for about 15 minutes and then cool to room temperature.
That'll force the chlorine out of the water.
Now, chlorine is a naturally a gas.
Another thing you can do is before you do anything, you can also leave it out, leave your water out standing for overnight and all the chlorine will evaporate out of your beer or out of your water.
You can also use the recommended amount of sanitizers. Most sanitizers will not cause any off flavors when they're used properly.
When using bleach, oh gosh, I'm not going to even go into the one time I used bleach as a sanitizer.
If you're using bleach, use one half ounce per gallon of water. Let the equipment soak for 10 minutes and rinse every bit of it away.
Then sanitize it with pre-boiled water. And that is the last one that I'm going to be reading for today.
Next time we get to start off with another yummy one, cider, which will give apple cider and wine characteristics to your brew and then go into rancid butter.
You'll like that.
That's funny. You start off with a great one and it went all nasty, chemically.
Then we're going to start off with a great one again and then go into like fermented butter.
Oh god, this is going to be a good one.
You're just going to scare everybody off from doing home brew because they're going to figure their brew is going to come out like green apple, plastic, rancid butter.
No, fingernail polish.
If this stuff is going to scare people off, I really hope it doesn't because along with all this stuff I'm giving really good advice on how not to get these flavors as well.
Well, I guess that's the greatest part is like listen up folks. This is how not to have just awful, awful chlorine.
In any case, it was something else that I wanted to throw out there, but I have something.
What's that?
Well, it comes into the whole what is it, the Mr. Beer section and that was announcing that you guys knew that last Thursday was not this last Thursday, but Thursday before the 21st was my birthday.
Well, that following Saturday, I got a everything I needed to brew five gallons of beer from my dad.
He stopped by the home, he stopped by the Black Dragon brewery in Woodland and picked up not only did he pick up the everything I needed to brew five gallons of beer, but he also picked up a ginormous six plus gallon pot from there as well.
Stan, let's do it.
Nice, nice. And Black Dragon brewery or not brewery, but supply.
That was a place that we were talking about a couple of episodes ago and from what I remember, you were well taken back with them just how awesome they treated you.
Oh yeah, he has offered now several times to have me interview him and yes, it is Black Dragon brewery and home brew supply store.
He actually hasn't started brewing yet. He'll be brewing about the end of next month. He'll have bottles ready.
Cool, I'm looking forward to hearing some more about that. So do we got any fun facts going on?
Yes, we do. My fun fact isn't really all that fun. And that is that Alabama and Mississippi are the only two states left in the union, which is illegal to brew beer at home.
Are you serious?
Yes, yes, I am. Mississippi and Alabama.
Wow.
So you remember we had a couple of things, a couple of shows back that whole Mississippi thing.
Right, right.
Oh yeah, where Mississippi up to the alcohol by volume, they could brew well.
It's still illegal to brew in Mississippi and Alabama. Now it very well.
I don't think there are any other states. I'm pretty sure that other states, all the other states have come to the national standard.
Or the federal standard rather. I do know that there still are some states where you can brew beer at home, but you cannot take it out of your house.
And I know that Mississippi, the law that they have says that you can brew wine at your house, but the law doesn't specifically say beer, so you can't brew beer.
Wow. That is really, really interesting.
Wow. I would have, especially those particular areas, I would definitely think that they would be able to brew beer there.
Yeah, because they'd be in competition with the moonshineers.
That's true. That's true.
You got any fun facts?
Yes, I do have a fun fact.
And the fun fact that I want to throw out there is that the pond brewers website is going to be changing soon, Spork.
What? Huh? Huh? Huh? Huh?
And I'm just saying I just wanted to throw it out there that some people may notice, that the pond brewers website will be changing a little bit here very soon.
And everything is for the good and for the better.
And just to say that we are working on bringing you even a better experience overall.
So I want to encourage you all to go to popbrewers.net frequently and check out the different
changes as they come about as well as, of course, checking out the live shows.
Hey, is this going to mess up my feed?
No, it's not going to mess up your feed at all.
You're going to be able to keep up and up to date with popbrewers all the way down and
get all your lovely goodness that you get from us on a weekly basis.
All right, cool.
Well, in any case, what I would like to know about is some vocabulary, because I don't know how to talk.
Help me, help me speak through.
All right, we'll do this talk and then we'll probably be getting out of here because
we're running a little bit long now, a little bit late.
But you know what, we are running a little bit late, but there is one thing that we got
to get out this particular episode.
So you want to do vocabulary or do you want me to do that other thing?
You can do that other thing.
We can wait on the vocab.
All right.
So you know what, I'm going to give 5150.
Do you want to champion this one and talk about a little bit of a contest that's happening?
Yes, I will.
The links are a bit long.
I can try to read them off in here.
Don't worry.
If anybody wants the links, if they're not up on the show notes, you can email me at 5150
at Linux base, basement.
I'm sorry, 5150 at Linux basement.
Just like the old podcast, and I'll forward the same email that I sent to buyer.
This is a local brewery here in Kansas.
In fact, it's in Manhattan, Kansas, where Kansas State University is tall grass brewing.
And you might find the link if you go to www.tallgrassbeer.com.
But what they're doing in partnership with www.northernbrewer.com, which makes beer kits kind of like the Mr. Beer.
It looks like a lot more advanced.
And I'm not sure what you're getting this kit for sure.
I think it's just the ingredients, but all the beers of tall grass offers.
They have an ale, and various other beers.
They have, I still want to try their 8-bit beer, which I haven't seen show up lately,
or 8-bit ale, which I haven't seen show up locally, but they are putting out at least
ingredients kits for all their beers.
And is there a promotion to start that off on sort of their feedback site?
It's www.tallgrassbeer.com slash contact.html.
Question mark, UTM underscore source equals capital J, UNE plus capital N, E, W, S, L, E, T, T, E, R, plus 2012, ampersand,
UTM underscore campaign equals capital N, E, W, L, E, T, T, E, R, plus symbol, capital S, U, M, M, E, R, ampersand,
UTM underscore medium equals email.
And that's just a feedback form, but you fill out your particulars and say why you deserve
to have one of these beer kits, and I'm going to assume that it's probably, even though
it's designed for Northern beer, you can make it to be compatible with your Mr. beer
kit.
But I think they say it's not a random selection, or you're going to select on brevity,
creativity, and humor, so mentioning that you're a course on it or a listener to this,
to the podcast certainly can't hurt, I played that card on it, and I said I can't, you
know, that's a long URL, so if you send me, if you send me an email, I'll forward the
same email, and I sent a buyer earlier in this week.
Don't you worry about it, 5150, I will, I have it here, and I will put it into the
show notes.
Yeah, most certainly, most certainly, I want to send that thank you out to 5150, that
was a great, great tip there, and great news, so we're going to go ahead and get ready
to end this show off, what do you guys think?
Yeah, I think so, and I'm looking at their thing, and 5150, were you saying that they
would send you a starter kit?
Well, they're not sending one to everybody, it's a contest, so if you look at the main page
where the link to this page is, it looks like they're showing equipment on there, but
if there's a link there to the Northern Beers site, and all for the selections that come
under the tall grass, and all they seem to be showing there are ingredient kits, so
they're not completely clear what you would be getting for free.
I hope it would be, everybody could use another set of equipment, but it looks like maybe
there's some higher end, I think everything on the Northern Beers is sort of all a cart
that you buy separately.
Awesome, awesome.
Yeah, there is a section four starter kits as well, I found it as I dug deeper into it,
so this is great, I'll definitely put this on the link, and I'll be sending in my email too.
Yeah, I'm going to send my email in along with that, and remember, you know, Tom,
that you heard about it over here at poppers.net, that would be very much appreciated,
and it could not hurt.
I mean, like send it to me, and I'll review it on the show, and the seven million listeners
that listen to us will hear about it, and I'll buy from you.
Well, that's the link, and I said, if I get one, I will, you know, I said I will mention the
contest on the show, and if you send me the kit, I will definitely review it on a later show.
That's cool.
All right, cool, this is great, and I just wanted to mention real quick,
our Mr. Beer section has been kind of short, so I'm thinking, probably here in the next
couple of weeks, I'm going to do another quick rundown on how to brew with Mr. Beer,
just specifically for Door to Door Keek since he has his bottles now.
I know, that's totally cool, totally cool.
All right, well, this will bring us to the end of another great show, and I want to remind you
all that you can check us out on Mondays between 6 p.m., or at 6 p.m., 8 p.m., Mountain Central,
and 9 a.m. on the East Coast, that's 6 p.m. on the West Coast, and you can hear Door to Door
as well as Tracy with that one. On Fridays, you can hear Sport Saber and myself at 9 p.m.,
West Coast 11, Mountain Central, and 12 a.m. on the East Coast. You can send all emails over to
pawbrewers at gmail.com, as well check out the live feed at thenewradio.net.
Remember that you can come on over to mumble, and if you have any trouble getting in the mumble,
come on over to Linux Basics. That's Linux, B-A-S-I-X, and we will be more than happy to help you.
We will hold your hand and get you on the mumble, or our seas, and everything else like that,
because that's how we are over here. We are down to help you. I can guarantee you,
you will get more help here, and then you will get anywhere else. So without further ado,
I'm going to go ahead and say my goodbyes, and let everybody else say they're goodbyes.
So I'm out of here. God bless.
All right, everybody. Have a good night. Enjoy your weekend, and enjoy your beer.
Get you on the flip side, keep the shoddy side up, and the greasy side down.
And remember, a lemon contains more sugar than a strawberry.
Not exactly a pure thing, but never know. It might help you out.
You guys are actually crazy.
I'm going to have to brew with lemons now.
I know. That's like so cool. 5150.
But if you had a strawberry besides a lemon,
that would be interesting. We're hit to work. That is your tip.
And it's awesome.
Good night, everybody.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, or Tacker Public Radio, those are.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday and on day through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the economical and computer cloud.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are proudly sponsored by Lina Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinaPages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a like, free those own license.
