Episode: 1806
Title: HPR1806: HPR Community News for June 2015
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1806/hpr1806.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 09:36:51

---

This is HBR Episode 1886 entitled HBR Community News for June 2015 and is part of the series
HBR Community News.
It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 101 minutes long.
The summary is HBR Community News for June 2015.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honest Host.com.
It 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honest Host.com.
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Farhan.
It's very tempted to say my name is Michael K.
Joining me this evening are...
Hello, it's Dave Morris.
This is HBR Community News Show and I'm deliberately talking slowly so that people can speed up the podcasts that I am on.
However, we might be here all night if I do that.
Let's not Ken, let's not.
All right, do you want to introduce the new host for this month, David?
Yes indeed, our new host for this month, Kura Kura.
Yes, I rehearsed it.
Gnu Linux RTM and Cheeto 2493.
I'm not quite sure how he says the number 4493 perhaps, I don't remember.
There's a Cheeto A-A-E.
Is it me to speak?
Hello, I have the wildfile here, I'll find out one second.
His name is actually Travis.
Oh, right, that's how you spelled that.
We're not slacking people's handles.
Anyways, this is the Community News Show.
If you're new to Hacker Public Radio, this is a network where we basically,
anybody at all who has an interest in spreading ideas gets together and records a show and submits it.
It's incredibly easy to do and I just recorded one today actually.
One for my How Holland Rocks series, which I'll upload later on.
Cool, looking forward to that.
Yes, I've actually recorded this show about 15 times.
But then I just decided to write an office enough because I kept wanting to add more information
and take away more information and support it with additional documentation.
But I'm just going to throw it up and the story.
I promise now, so I have to do it.
Anyway, this monthly show is a review basically of what's been going on in and around the HDR community
which you are a part of because you are listening.
And if you are listening and haven't submitted the show, now would be an ideal time to do it
because we're heading into the summer months up here in the northern hemisphere.
And, yeah, throw some officials.
Thank you very much.
So the first thing we do is introduce new hosts, which we've done.
And then we go through the other shows which we are kind of doing.
The first one was the Community News Show to be a bit meta to comment about that.
And then we went on to a show by Kura Kura.
Correct, yes.
There you go.
Kura's text, a non-visual text editor, open assistive device project.
Now, he's been on a lot of you podcasts and this is an amazing little device that you put together.
It's a brilliant thing, yeah.
I saw this one coming up whenever it went into the queue and was so intrigued,
I had to go and check everything out beforehand.
So I cheated.
I know this is, I cheated.
I'm a bad person.
It's just just a brilliant, brilliant thing.
I'd love to hear more.
Absolutely.
And if there are people out there who have comments on this, can they especially like to hear from people with visual issues?
And how they migrate, for instance, chimed in on the chats.
Should we be doing the comments for these episodes while we're doing us?
Maybe it might make more sense.
What do you reckon?
What do you reckon?
We could do that.
Yeah, it's in some ways to go through all the shows and then go through all the comments seems a little bit strange.
Except that the comments sometimes refer back to shows from a previous month.
So how about we do the comments for the shows that are as we review on them?
And then then at the end when we're doing the comments show, we'll just go through the ones that we haven't spoken about already.
Yeah, yeah, see if we can do that.
So speaking of a visually impaired user, Mike Ray chimed in saying it sounds like a great project.
One nagging question, which sprang to me about the slider.
So what happens when you get to a hundred lines in the land?
Do you have to move the slider, point zero, zero, one millimeter to get to the next line?
Yeah, I'd wondered that too.
I couldn't quite visualize how you would scroll through an enormously long file.
Though Mike put it very well there.
Yeah, and gone cold comments then.
While having looked at the video, it seems to me that they, you know, the lines were already broken up by virtue of the fact it was a character as long.
So it's just a text file.
Yeah, but it's more how since you're scrolling down a file, the amount that you scroll will per step will vary depending on how long the file is.
I think that's a good point.
John Culp was going awesome in many ways.
By the way, Dave, don't feel like just because we're doing the shows, you can't do the comments.
All right, okay.
Now I ruined you because I bet you have a script that does all of this.
It's just typical.
Yeah, I'm just going to get pair of scissors and cut it up into pieces.
Anyway, John was saying it's an awesome project, brilliant concept, effective solution.
And please do more episodes more or less.
He waffles on us, John does.
I'm really digging in the booth now.
The scroll to Philly with curly brackets, semi-colon.
Apart from that, it's really cool.
I encourage anyone who has not done so to go watch the video demonstration.
It's the kind of thing that I would like to build myself just for the fun of it, absolutely awesome.
Thanks for sharing.
Please do more episodes.
Yes, couldn't agree more.
Common three was from Mike Ray smashing the monopoly of commercial gadgetry.
If sight of folks knew how much company is charged for a similar portable gadgetry aimed at blind, they'd be shocked.
Companies always have quote R&D calls of bringing products to market for a very small market justification for charging $4,000 for a portable braille no taker.
Seriously, guys.
Open source and the hacking community are slowly going to crack this monopoly.
Four grand.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, we, we, we people.
Come on, get together.
I don't know.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
Cool.
I'd love to hear on HPR how he got on with them.
I think he's blogged a bit about how they went, but some shows, some shows about how he's got on at these things would be brilliant to follow up with this sort of.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And it seems like an ideal, you know, project, what to start off with.
Well, you know, build this or, you know, do an iteration of this and see how it helps.
Yeah, absolutely.
Then we had the following day, first time host, long time listener, first time host.
Oh, sorry, it's very hot here.
I'm not used to it.
So my sense of humor is coming through.
GNU Linux RTM has written a show and don't a show for us, which is excellent.
Keep them coming.
How to, how to get basically the journey, how, how he got into Linux.
One interesting thing was that, yes, I hear the word hacker public radio before, but just thought that this means this was some kind of show with extreme hacker types.
And, you know, I just want to say, not, not blow my own horn, that yes, there has been some, my show this month has been an extreme example of a hacker type at work.
So yeah, I can, I can see where that, that fear would have come.
Quite, yes, yes.
Which one was that, then, Ken?
We'll get to it.
All right.
Actually, what was the thing that actually made a move in the end?
Was, I think, did you say something about having the button for an upgrade?
Sorry, go.
You remember better.
Yeah, he blew, well, I'm reading the show notes, which is excellent because it's a transcript of what he said.
Awesome.
And that's, yeah, he had a no laptop, that's the power management wouldn't work.
And then he just put Linux on his own and bang it worked out of the box.
Yeah.
Great story.
Yes, yes, absolutely.
The level when that happens, let's skip over the 4,000 ones where it doesn't fall to that grade.
Anyway, John Culp, who is very much in danger of being promoted.
A hilarious tale of Windows update pains.
I remember as well, but haven't had to deal with it a few years, all full apart from requiring endless reboots and breaking things.
The updates always took forever to run.
Thanks for an interesting episode looking forward to some more.
So nice to get some feedback there from John.
And I know Dave is not jumping in here again with.
Just, just, just, just tip me the wing.
That's all you have to do.
Weeping and tipping on you already.
Okay, comment.
Let me get the next one.
I'll tell you what, Ken, shall I do the next one?
Excellent.
Thank you.
Well, yeah.
Well, he's pushing to the front as always.
You see, this is what it is.
Anyway, comment two was from 0XF10E, who said entertaining episode.
And tells his few windows use the Windows 7 installation takes a whole day because of the updates to install.
So yes, we've never installed Windows 7 XP as far as I've ever gone.
But yeah, I know it's a pretty, pretty grim thing.
And I like the comment.
Nice voice.
You should read sci-fi stories for escape pod.
Yes.
That's it.
Yeah, that's a great accolade.
Have you ever heard one?
And still, boy, come in.
Seconded.
Just listened to this and really enjoyed it.
I'd love to hear you do more shows on things that frustrate you very, very funny.
Excellent stuff.
So the following day was 1784.
Intro to the few and open, well-tempted, clavier.
And for once, this is John trying to pull us...
Well, not you, Dave.
I realized you're a cultured, but pulled the likes of me.
Yeah, right.
Well, that said, I was the one who asked for the episode on music theory.
But I really did enjoy this.
I really did.
I listened to it twice already.
And my wife, who is a study that...
What do you call that music school where you go to conservatorium type thing?
So...
You and my wife was at a conservatorium, you know.
So she had to chuckle when I mispronounced that.
But very interesting.
I finished talking, you may now talk.
Okay, I thought you'd fallen off the world there because you...
Did you let go of the push to talk?
Yeah, it's... I love this.
And John had highlighted Kimiko Ishizaka's work.
And there was...
Is it an indie go-go or a Kickstarter member for her latest one?
And I chucked some money in that direction.
And yeah, when I bought the world-tempered clavier...
I pronounce it clavier.
I'm not sure if that's correct since it's German, isn't it?
But whatever, I don't know how to say that.
But yes, it's an excellent piece of work.
Did you know Ken that when you were at OM 2013,
she was actually performing there?
I did not know this.
I was officially shut down.
All major functioning processes there due to the heat,
which is similar to what's happening today.
It's quite cool here in Scotland, so it's not so bad.
Yeah, she did...
She played some pieces from...
I can't remember what it was now.
I think she, of her playing this,
at the OM OHM conference thing.
And she was great.
And it was full of...
It's a head-tent full of geeks listening.
And obviously enjoying.
It's a pretty wonderful thing to see.
I think it's awesome.
I think it's awesome and very, very sad and depressing in one way
that it's awesome that she's doing this.
And it's very sad and depressing that in my lifetime
there will never be a work of copyright or work released
that I find tremendously depressing.
Even performances of non-comperative material
still get to copyright aside to them.
I think that is unfair.
Yeah, yeah.
But only that's why the police still come in for the day.
Strange thing.
Anyway, it's not really...
You know, a few of us a hundred years ago,
the stuff like the Beatles would have been out of copyright by now.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I know.
It's a strange world.
Kevin O'Brien said it was great.
I'm glad to see you at my feed.
I backed up all three of the projects by Kimiko.
Can you pronounce that?
Kimiko, I think it is.
Kimiko has done and someone who has performed music as well.
As listen, I think the open score is just as reporting as open recordings.
And I think John, actually, in this episode,
highlights really exactly why this needs to be done.
Here's a music teacher who can now use these top quality recordings.
And, you know, you're not listening to an old 78 of some,
you know, an MP3 converted of a 78 recording that was done before the 1920s.
You know what I mean?
So absolutely awesome.
Yeah, absolutely.
Indeed.
So John replies to Kevin saying,
on the subject of open scores, saying, I agree.
And well, you can get just about any public domain scores for free and PDF
from the IMSLP website that the cool thing about these new scores is that you can get the source code and edit it.
So that's pretty amazing.
Absolutely fantastic.
That's actually the point.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I won't read the whole thing.
But yeah, it's a very, very impressive project.
And the thing that I mentioned as having funded is the Chopin thing,
by the way, that she's currently doing on a piano that Chopin actually played on himself.
So it's pretty close to being ready, I think.
You can get more authentic than that, I think.
Pretty cool.
I must say though that the music she's done up until now hasn't been my cup of tea, so to speak.
I know John is now throwing his MP3 player, or sorry, Freedom Loving Aug player at the wall.
But I do like a little bit of Chopin, I must say.
Well, yeah, each to his own.
Yeah, I enjoy Bach, myself.
I had a previous recording of the World Tempered Clavier, or Clavier, or Harry, if you say it.
So yes, my type of thing.
I always thought there was too many notes, to be honest.
But now that John has explained it to me, it makes a lot more sense.
I can split my brain open to the four different voices and follow them independently, in which case.
And then I've enjoyed it a lot more because it wasn't one thing hit me in the face.
It was four individual voices, if you know what I mean.
It might seem strange.
Knowing how it's built and what it's about is really important, I think.
And as I put it in the comments, yes, I'm seeing that everywhere and on myself.
So in all loads of loads of music, not just classical.
I'm seeing people doing that sort of stuff.
So this is one, I think I will be going back to again and again, so more of those.
So did you see that we had a comment by Robert Douglas, who.
Who just one second and I'll dig up the email.
Yeah, he just Johnson me an email to say that's Robert Douglas is married to the pianist.
Yes, producer organizer and fundraiser over projects.
So must have a search or something else.
So there you go.
Yes, indeed.
I haven't quite tweaked my first saw his name.
And I said, you realize because she in some of her stuff, she, she.
Style to herself as easy as that.
Douglas, help with the hyphen.
So yeah, yeah.
Fantastic. It's great.
And then there was a conversation between.
Between Robert and John Colt about the use of well-tempered clavier book one.
In Lady Gaga's song, Bad Romance, which passed me by, I must admit.
But yeah, I've there's a whole series of these on YouTube.
I followed a never ending YouTube circle.
I think to, to those, you know, recommended you like this.
You like this, which is kind of interesting.
And Frank comments to say it was a great listening for such Sunday afternoon, which it was.
And it's called to me that there might in terms of registry.
It occurred to me that in terms of rigidity of structure, et cetera.
The few might be the sonnet of music.
Daniel Worth, who is from the open source musicians podcast.
Fantastic, really enjoyed listening, examining, explaining about the theory.
I hope you do much more of this.
And then we had a comment from Alison Chacon, who asks if.
If anybody's heard fugue for Friday, I didn't actually follow this up, but she gives a YouTube link.
So I must check that out. Did you check again?
You there, Ken?
Yeah, just one sec.
No, David. Sorry, I didn't get a chance to.
It's on my playlist, though.
So I'm going to have a listen to that.
When I get a moment.
And then John Culp finished it off saying it's nice to hear from you.
Thanks for listening. Also, thanks for the tip on the fugue.
I never would have occurred to me to write a few on that subject.
Fugue is kind of unusual in as much as each middle entry seems to be almost like a completely new exposition.
Except for the fact that the texture does not drop down to a single voice again, certainly unusual to see all voices do the subject in succession in middle entries like these cool piece, though.
And that is the YouTube video is actually shows you the notes with the like the midi drawings going across them.
Oh, cool. Right. I must check that out.
I must say when it comes to music theory and stuff like that, I'm really glad John is doing this because I feel like a duck out of water as far as it goes.
Oh, yeah, same here, same here.
See some great, great moves and shakers discussing mixing just watching from the sidelines personally.
Yep. Cool.
And another person who is bringing us education, whether we like it or not is the hooker.
This is usually where he starts appearing and continuing the Libra office series.
This one is the mechanics of creating a presentation in impress.
And I don't know if everybody knows this, but a hooker does have the full.
Well, I don't think it's a transcript per se, but a very good blog entry about how about all of the shows, which I will be getting one of my minions to see how we can parse that off into HTML to put on to some sort of ebook or something like that.
If there were only people available on the network to be able to do that for us.
I know it's such a shame.
But yes, yes, he's definitely got a lot of information on his on his website.
I do usually follow those through to check them out.
Yeah, he also has little screenshots and stuff, which is always excellent.
Yeah, yeah, that adds a lot.
And I said, I really do want to cause I was checking out the licenses and stuff.
And he had done a site update and the CC licenses out had disappeared.
So he's put those back, which is excellent.
Charles in in in J another person who's slapping us about the head with the math stick about map, produce big data concepts.
And this is one of the ones again, where I need to be on the right frame of mind prepared.
Plenty of coffee in taken before I can turn you off on that.
And this one turned out to be not that difficult actually to understand.
Granted, the maths wasn't that hard, but the concept I did get and it was really nice to, yeah, to break down that concept for me.
Yeah, I know I said made the same notes to myself that it wasn't that hard to understand, but I'd never, never actually bother to dig deep enough to understand it.
So it's really good to have that explanation there.
And particularly the Hadoop thing.
The university has to work for had a computational cluster that I was sort of normally in charge of, you know, I was managed the people who were really in charge of it.
Of course.
I was reading real life.
What was the what was the term D skilled into management?
I think there was the term.
Yeah, so there was lots of talk about using Hadoop in that in that context.
I don't know if that actually happened after I left, but yeah, it's very much the thing that a lot of people want to be doing.
So I found this very interesting.
It's quite good because I've come across people talking about the not least of which my brother who operates as a higher frequency than myself.
Multiple more quarters operating as any one time than I do.
So it's nice to have that explained.
And also nice to see Charles back.
More stuff hopefully will be coming from him soon.
Oh, absolutely. A second that.
Ah, yes. Frank Bell, another person coming in from the dark.
A beginner with a walk. Wow.
Geek some food, eh? Geek some food.
I do like a little bit of walk myself.
I have to say this this kicked off.
This kicked off a lot of comments on the.
In the comments section.
So the episode was basically Frank basically how he does stir fry and the quick way to get you started if you were a bit scared.
And something that you should have a look and do.
And it's on our list for things, you know, the kids recipe books and stuff that they'll be able to cook before they leave the house.
So this is right up there with the plan as far as I'm concerned.
Dave, do you want to go through the comments?
Yep, yep, yep. Hold on. I can't hold on the push to talk and scroll at the same time.
Oh, yeah, I know.
I'm chosen the control key. Hold on a second.
So yeah, it's a bad choice.
Never mind.
And yeah, so I second your comments about about Frank's choice of a subject a fantastic one.
John Colt comments first of all, what about broccoli?
So thanks so much for the shout out, Frank.
How could you possibly leave broccoli off your list?
Stir fry worthy vegetables.
And yeah, absolutely.
Yes.
And then Mike Gray said, oh, yeah, I was thinking the same thing, John.
What about baby corn cobs?
Great episode.
I love that.
Everybody calls where there's gone now.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
And he also says a long, a good, long handled wok shovel is also a must for that.
Authentic Chinese kitchen noise, which I think is a good, good comment to.
We have a, we have a very good restaurant to work and there's a wok chef section.
And it's so relaxing to you know, when all the other, all the other areas are the pizza place doesn't have any pizzas.
But when she starts doing her vegetables and stuff, it is so mesmerizingly relaxing to see a wok dish being prepared.
Oh, yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Now I'm a great, great believer in this sort of stuff.
And I know exactly what he means about the authentic Chinese kitchen noise, that sort of clanking, scraping sound and throwing the stuff around.
Yeah, yeah.
She's like a bucket on the floor and she throws it there and grabs this and throws it from the other side of the room.
And I don't know if she's doing it to impress like this tiny little lady and all these really tall Dutch people standing around watching this so impressive.
So impressive.
It's really cool.
So Frank replies to the broccoli comment with the wrist response.
I haven't figured out a way to stir fry hollandaise sauce.
And she likes his broccoli with hollandaise sauce, I imagine.
And to his john says hollandaise hollandaise.
I have to do with broccoli.
I don't think I've ever eaten hollandaise before.
I'm glad he did reply because I had no idea what the relationship was there.
Yes, another topic.
I'm ultimately death.
Yeah, yeah.
I know it's I wasn't quite quite with that either.
It's I guess some people just prefer not to not to eat broccoli without, you know, some sort of sauce on it.
But yeah.
So I commented after this saying great idea for an episode.
Frank and I do actually do a fair bit of stir fry.
And I've been doing so for quite a long time.
I taught myself how to do this a long, long time ago.
I lived in Manchester where there's quite strong Chinese community.
I used to go and eat Chinese food a lot.
And the Chinese supermarket all had, you know, the walks and all the ingredients and everything.
So it was very tempting to get into it.
So yeah, it's quite a big Chinese Chinese area in Manchester.
So I went into some details about what I normally put in a stir fry and cutting stuff up.
You need to cut it all into similar sizes.
Otherwise, some stuff doesn't, doesn't cook me.
You need to cook it at different times too.
But anyway, I could wrap it on a lot about this.
I should do an episode.
Yeah.
So I listed a few things that other things that you could, you could put.
In fact, the list is infinite almost.
So now I commented that I use a steel wok with a flat bottom on a gas hob.
Because on a standard British gas hob, you can't really put a round bottom thing because it just falls over.
You know, so one day I'd like to have something which I can put a proper round bottom wok on to.
So, and I made a typo and added a comment to say.
I was so excited thinking about my next stir fry recipe that I forgot how to spell.
And you can go back and edit us yourself.
I like could have done that.
But every time I touch that damn comment system, I break it.
So I just leave it alone.
Which may explain why you're doing this and not me anymore.
Yeah, I noticed that.
Anyway, spread the love.
That's what I say.
I think some places you can get a kind of iron ring that goes on the gas burner so that you can have round bottom wok stands.
He had it once and it was really heavy.
And if you were going to give it a violence slap on the wok, like the pros do much better than a flat bottom wok to which you replied.
Well, yes, wok rings.
I do have a ring, but it's not a big heavy thing.
So it just slides about all the place.
It's a silly thing.
So it does seem on TV was one of those where it was.
They're walking with a flood bottom wok.
I was actually given what I've got about three in the cupboard.
Yeah, I've got one that's huge.
The last thing that nearly covers the entire top of the wall of the of the hob.
I mean, but yeah, but the the the stand thingy, the ring is garbage.
I wouldn't use it.
The right thing to do is to get a proper hob, which has got a wok ring on it that has built into it.
The first thing I commented on was that I find that, you know, standard worktop height for a for a hob is too high for getting it.
You need to be standing above the wok to stir, stirring it.
So sometimes I I stand on a stool to do it, which makes my children laugh up ahead of what you do in stuff like that.
You're falling.
Anyway, yeah, just an insight into our domestic domestic life.
A YouTube video series creaking with Dave.
Flat bottom wok isn't isn't brilliant.
It's a compromise because the sides don't get as hot as they should.
You should the whole side should be really, really hot.
You can far, far out of things around.
Stop you there.
But I think you should do a show yourself.
Yeah, yeah.
In fact, this this goes on and on and on folks.
We have Frank gone.
If you have an eaten holiday sauce, you have an eaten, which the rest of the comments I'll let you read yourself.
Jezure comments about chicken and wok after visiting local butcher, put some in the freezer.
There were frozen salad.
No, no.
All right, that's it.
Anything with no, no, I'm skipping over.
Sorry, Jezure comments from Frank.
I did the opposite.
Usually bonus chicken breasts and the freezer.
Todd and partially slice them up.
51 50.
Yes.
Do you want me to take it?
51 50.
Made the made a rather rather poignant comment.
I mean, I thought learn not to turn the heat up when I thought I turned it off and then walk away from the stove.
So yes, that's that's very, very sad if you know the story of 50 50s has burning down, but yeah.
But Frank's comes back with a broccoli tonight with garlic onions, mushrooms, loads and loads and loads of stuff.
Thanks for the suggestions.
I think you got to cost the broccoli into smaller chunks.
Finally, a walk series there.
Everybody who commented there should do their how I use my walk show for us.
Thank you.
Pogcroll Glasgow.
Glad this came up because I wanted to make sure that everybody knew about it.
It should be on next week.
It's next Friday.
Yes.
Yeah, sorry.
10th of July in the state bar.
How in street Glasgow 6 p.m.
Very, very tempted to go to that.
I even did my typical looking around for flights and stuff.
I actually rediscovered a site that I had lost ages ago, which is Rome and the number two Reno.com.
And that just allows you to put in two cities and it'll show you all the different options like rail, furry, plane, walking, driving all the rest.
And the different prices that you could expect to pay, which is awesome site, but unfortunately also an awesome price.
Yeah, it's probably the wrong time of year to be making that sort of trip, I guess, is it?
It's been the busy time everybody is.
Yeah, exactly. It's right in the middle of the holidays there.
Yeah, it's in the holiday season.
So you can't take a boat from...
Nope.
They have these cool things where, you know, starting from 29 euros one way and then they force you now to take a cabin, even though it's only three hours of a fast ferry.
So it's a ripoff.
And then you have to take the train and I don't know what it is about the UK, but the trains are horrendously expensive.
What the hell?
Yeah.
I was looking at the prices and there was one of them that come up with a thousand euros if I went first class or something.
A thousand euros to get from one side of an island to another.
You mad?
It's a ripoff, it's a total ripoff.
You can get really good prices if you book very early, like three months or something in advance and you can get really cheap prices.
But then the prices just go up and up and up, it's ridiculous.
That's completely nuts.
And you know about that?
It was actually cheaper to buy an inter-rail ticket that covered the UK and go that way.
But the only thing is you're not allowed to take into a city so that you have to go on a slow line train.
Yeah, yeah.
There's a lot of them.
But yeah, you have to skip all of the inter-sities.
You can't even interconnect and do a little bit of a...
Mess you up.
And by the time I got up there, I'll be sure you'd have done it.
Unfortunately not this year, I'm afraid.
Shame.
Could do it around...
Did it around Ogcampi time, but that probably defeats purpose?
Yes.
Yes, yes.
Mostly a pub event for people who are in forecasting, I guess.
I think, yeah.
And I think Kevin has set it up around about that time because he's on holiday now being a teacher and everything.
So, and he wouldn't be in whenever Ogcampus is likely to be October November.
Ah, that's true.
And he's already travelled half the length of the island to get that far, I guess.
From Louis to Glasgow, it's a fair old...
It's a swac!
God, the guy is nearly up at the Arctic Circle, it has to be said.
Yeah, yeah.
It's a long each way, yeah.
It's a good leaflight.
Right.
The following day we heard John Penelope Cup.
Do you want to quickly e-books templates, e-books in general?
Oh, do you want to quickly e-book templates and e-books in general?
John Cobb and Mike Hengley talk about e-books in general and Mike's quickly e-book template project.
Which, I realised Mike was on about this back in...
So this is from June 2014, another I can be want to comment about, lay posting of shows, but just so you know.
And there's about Mike's concept of using the...
I think he did a show on HQR about that, actually.
He did indeed, yeah.
About using package management systems to get stuff into...
He'd get physical works into download it.
Which I think is actually awesome.
It's a great idea, yeah, yeah.
He'd written a package around the Python quickly toolkit, I guess that's what you call it.
Which allows you to create the e-book and then use the launch pad to distribute it.
I think that's pretty much it, isn't it?
Is that your understanding too?
Yeah, I have lately been looking for some 4K movies, or basically creative commons, free to use, CCBSA, or freer media.
And it is incredibly difficult to find any that is downloadable.
You can find repositories that say it's available and then in one place and you find it.
And then they send you to a link on a website that is somewhere and then it's in finish or something.
And you have to download each of them individually.
Or there is no repository that I could find of just easy to download stuff.
And I think the focus probably quite rightly now is on collecting creative commons works into places like archive.org.
But getting it out yourself is extremely difficult.
You know that Finnish or Norwegian slow TV concept where they put a HD camera on some trains and they also did it on the boat.
And for 24 hours, 48 hours, they traveled through Norway.
And they have that released under CC by license.
But you can't get the thing.
It's not available anywhere.
The links on their website is broken, contacts, trying to get it from them.
They don't have a copy of it.
Even when you are licensed to use it, it's very difficult to get it.
That's weird.
So if there is people out there who are shouting at the microphone on Ken, you're an idiot.
Let's work that they're probably working from a greater truth there.
And that it's available on some other sites if you could give me a shout that would be fantastic.
Especially with the price of hard disk now, I would have no problem whatsoever, you know, feeding torrents of this stuff out or have put an FTP server or something trying to make it available to people.
It would be cool.
Any enough about that.
So the next day was the Penguin Con 2015 report.
And this seems like the sort of show that I would really like to go to.
Yeah, it sounded really great, didn't it?
I liked Hooker's idea of doing a sort of personal journal diary thing of his view of it all.
I found that quite fascinating.
And his description of it sounded really good.
Well, to me, it fitted in with the, you know, HPR being your log group, you know.
So what did you do this week of Hooker?
Yeah, well, I went to PINKLE.
Tell us about that.
Why don't you?
Well, we're all making a cup of tea or, you know, drinking beer.
And basically love that type of show.
So yeah, more people feel free to do that.
Yeah.
The fact that he was organising the technology track was amazing.
I think he sort of undersold himself a bit there because it sounded like he did a hell of a job.
Yeah, exactly.
And still had time to go to the symphony in the middle of everything.
Yeah, good man.
Yeah, I guess.
You want something to do and give it to somebody who's busy?
That's a nicer.
Then we had Tony Palais with organising your forces and bash.
And this is something that I've done show myself my move media thing.
And he has some excellent things.
He basically is doing more or less the same thing that I'm doing.
But he has, he has put fins on this thing and, you know, chrome radiators and everything.
He has uploads to GitHub and Google and, but pretty much, pretty, pretty cool thing.
Yeah, you just have to do, you know, unless it's in three, three different places,
two of which are not in the same house where you are at any given time.
It isn't backed up, you know, so it's a good, good thing.
No, great, great, great idea behind it.
I really like that.
I made a comment to this to say a great idea for a show and an interesting script.
Always like looking at other people's code.
It gives an insight into how they think and solve problems.
They're often good ideas.
I mean, you consider how you solve a particular problem.
So, you know, you can always learn from other people's ways of doing things.
And I mentioned that I never use get opt.
I always use the old, older inbuilt get opts with an S on the end.
Just because that's what I first learned when I started using Unix back in the 90s or something.
And I just never got away from that.
So the way he's used it there, I thought it was really very good.
So, do you do a show on the difference between the two?
Yeah, yeah, maybe, maybe something that Tony himself should do.
Yeah, I actually emailed Tony about this because I saw a few weirdnesses I didn't quite understand.
And he came back with some comments offline about it.
So, I think he's going to do more about this particular script.
As he says in his comment, his response or not specifically response to mine.
But the second comment is one of the Google CL services is broken.
So, he's going to be adjusting that, I think it's what he's saying.
And because of this change and some of the things that we discussed by email,
he's going to be reworking parts of this.
So, he says, keep an eye on the GitHub, just where he's putting his changes.
I think it would be good if he did a follow-up show personally.
I think so too, Dave.
What a great idea, hey?
Yes, and he also commented to say that Google command line was broken.
So, he's reworking changes.
Pretty cool.
And it looks like, even though I paid from my domain to be renewed, that they haven't renewed it.
Which is not good news.
So, the following day we had, David Whitman, continuing a series of interviews at Linux Fest Northwest.
This was with Andrea Frost.
And she is currently working as an office assistant counsel.
Council Northwest finishing postgraduate degree in commuter science from Western.
Yeah, she was an interesting interview.
She seems to have, I like the fact that she did that jump from doing a first degree in German to getting into computer science.
It's always good to see people following their interests like that.
Yeah, exactly.
And also interesting here on highlighting STEM, supporting STEM stuff.
So, yeah, keep up the good work.
Nice series of interviews there by David.
Yeah, as I said before, he's a great interviewer.
I like his style of doing this.
Then we had still void with some thoughts on the goal language.
And just one second, something's beeped at me, so I need to figure out what that is.
And he's been learning goal recently, which is Google language.
And here are my initial thoughts about the language in the framework.
And gives loads and loads of links about tutorials and sites that he mentioned during the show.
And Frank commented to says completely understanding mental blocks about thinking of a topic.
Welcome to HBO.
And again, folks, there is no such thing as a mental block.
Just send me your email and I will happily make sure that you have all the shows that you want.
All the other short ideas that you ever want without any problem whatsoever.
Yes, yes, absolutely.
I can vouch for that.
Yeah, I commented on this one as well because I'd go to science very intriguing to me.
I'd heard it being discussed on Floss Weekly.
Last year, I discovered by looking back through the logs.
And recently, I was also covered on the change log, which I think you listen to as well, don't you, Ken?
That's a good, good podcast.
So it sounds really good.
And it looks really good.
I'm quite tempted to have a play around with that.
So, yeah, I was depreciated.
And still know it.
Number three, oh, shall I?
Still with comments back.
The more I play around with Go, the more I like it.
It's been writing a bit of stuff in Go recently.
So he points to some work that he's been doing that's available on GitHub.
So some stuff that you can, we can go and have a look.
I haven't done so yet, but yeah.
He's also made him think of another show idea how HTTP works, which would be, which would be fun.
So there you go. He started.
Finally, yeah.
Now the show idea will come thick and fast.
Speaking of people who are sending in shows thick and fast, but in Bruneum,
John Colp, 12 tone music, and my random 12 note of the day.
This is excellent.
I like this.
Basically, he's written a bash script to do 12 tone music.
No, there's no way I can say that word.
Dodecaphony, I think it is.
It's 12 being Dodeca and phony being tone.
I imagine.
So yeah.
Yeah, far enough.
But I commented the, what actually you commented on something, but I commented saying
that it would be nice if you had a RSS feed for this.
You could always run the bash script as well.
Yeah, theoretically, I could.
It would be nice to have his one.
Yeah.
Like a CC hits of the day.
John Colp's 12 tone music.
Dodecaphony, I think.
And yeah, people.
Anyway, you can go through the rest of the comments.
Yes, well, I said, because there's, there's my son's a musician learning,
learning music at university.
I'm doing a back to his final year in his BAE music.
So it's a fair bit of music chat goes because on in the house from time to time.
So I commented that I was aware of Schoenberg, Berg and Weber.
But I'd never found their music at all appealing.
And you know, occasionally when I'm listening to that sort of channel on the radio
and one of them comes on, I tend to want to switch it off.
So, but I found it was useful to have an insight into what they were trying to do.
That still doesn't make it very appealing as I go in.
So yeah, yeah, I guess.
Well, John feels the same way about it, I think.
So he says in reply, still ugly.
He's agreed.
He says while the 12 tone technique has a certain elegance and analytic appeal.
It didn't substantially increase the acceptance of the music by the general public.
So it's an unpleasant sounding thing to most people I think is what he's saying there.
So Mike Ray comments saying,
A tonal music versus unrepresented to visual art.
It's interesting that changes in visual art away from the purely representative
to things like impressionist, expressionist, dadaism and pure abstract
didn't raise the same kind of objections as a tonal music.
Although there was some bad feeling from the traditionists to impressionism,
I think that was just the usual old folks don't like change type of comment, I think you mean.
So does that mean that things that offend our ears are inherently more palpably painful than things we look at?
Which is an interesting comment I thought about that.
I think it's right.
I think the answer is yes.
It is.
It would be fascinating to find out more about why that would be.
You know, really strange pieces of art.
You can sometimes stare at and think,
yeah, well, I don't know what it means.
I don't really understand it, but there's a certain something about it that's not completely unpleasant.
Whereas these a tonal 12 tone things can be just deeply unpleasant.
If you, if, you know, you're not really tuned into them.
Yeah, I don't know.
I've seen some, I've seen some work that artwork that really offends me in.
I can't listen.
I can't watch it in the same way that I can't hear some of that music.
Some of this, some of this music when it flashes it really,
yeah, you really want to shut it out.
And I have seen some pieces of art that are sort of disturbing to me that I can't look at them.
Which I guess is.
Yeah.
I've not, I've not had that reaction.
I've seen stuff that I look at and go,
what the hell is the point of that?
But it doesn't offend me, particularly.
You know, I tend to think, well, perhaps I just don't understand what the guy was trying to convey there.
So, you know, rather than there being an inherent nastiness fault in the art, as it were.
Well, I'm more thinking about that.
You know that exposition where they take skinned human bodies?
Yes, I've seen it.
Yes.
That's me, especially when they have it on billboards at the train station,
and I just kind of,
they kind of look at that, especially after doing some investigation to see how,
how the volunteers for it did actually volunteer.
When I was in Las Vegas, took the kids to America back in 2011.
We went to Las Vegas.
There was one of those shows was on in one of the Vegas hotels.
And we, my kids and I said,
yeah, yeah, let's go.
Let's go and see.
So we went around the whole of that thing.
Cost us money, obviously.
That's what we went.
We're going to make sure we saw the whole thing.
It's a plastination.
I think it's what they call it.
It's an injection of a plastic resin into the,
into the corpse.
But, as you say, later on,
we investigated where these had come from,
and then started to get very disturbed of what we'd seen.
So, yeah.
Quite so.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, yes, Mike is correct.
Yeah.
It's an interesting comment.
There is a line up which you cross,
where I think it would,
with music, I think it's more,
yeah, I don't know.
Dave.
Yes.
But was it, was it,
with these, these bodies meant to be art though.
I think there was more signs than art.
Was it not?
No, I think they're meant to be art.
I didn't know.
It's a rule which one,
the Netherlands has been art.
Really?
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
Wasn't in Vegas.
I know.
But being a trained scientist,
I see them as signs.
So, I'm fascinated by the anatomy side of it.
I see it as exploiting people.
Oh, it is.
It is, it is.
Until I'd realised quite what this was,
I had naively thought,
yeah, okay, these people have denated.
I don't think they did.
I think they were,
they were,
guess, murdered by the,
by the government.
It's all the way around.
Yeah.
And the notion of the,
the notion of the Marxist Church of England,
moving on to a very solid topic,
which is Libreau for some press,
templates and master pages.
And this,
this one was,
yeah, I didn't really get that you had to have the difference
been.
What a master page is.
But I think I kindly got,
finally got this in the end.
Yeah.
I,
So I sort of thought, right, okay, next time I actually need to use this I will, you know, keep a mental note that I need to go and check these these episodes and find out exactly what I need to be aware of, but, but otherwise, but I mean it's it's a hope as usual attention to detail and he will get us through it, he will get up for sure. He's doing an excellent job. Yeah, absolutely.
The next one, 1796, Audacity Chains Notches and Labels. Yes, this was this was in in response to I think one of John's throw web, throw away episodes on labels and audacity.
We had here Cheeto4493 explaining some some additional ways to talk about chains, basically doing scripting an audacity, who the thought is I was thinking this is an excellent, excellent thing.
Yes, isn't it just I was sitting there with audacity open in front of me while I was listening to this, just trying to follow all the bits. There's a lot in audacity. And unless you have a need for something you tend not I tend not to find it, but of course that's nice.
That's why I'm saying it's a nice type guide to our short yes, you know, people, maybe people are only using 10% of audacity, but it's from what I see it's a different 10% than the 10% that I'm using.
Because this would have been a very, very handy during the during the thing where I was identifying they, you know, I had to go back to all 2000 episodes and cut out the host name are all, sorry, 15 whatever episodes number I was doing that time.
Yeah, the 2000 episodes of today with a techie and HPR and cutting out the whole thing would have been really nice to have had a bit of scripting to assist along the weather.
Yeah, absolutely, absolutely. I was intrigued by the notch filters I tried playing around with some of my recordings to see how much how much noise I could take out and it certainly does if you find the local mains hum frequency and take that out.
And it does a does a fine job and silence, truncation, then that chops out more, it identifies more silence as a consequence, you know, cool.
Very, very nice. Interesting. Brilliant. More, please. More, keep them coming, keep them coming.
Petri, I didn't think that would be interesting. No, there you are.
An interview with Aaron Wolf and the snow drift cop. I think this is the second one and it was nice to guess this topic approach from a different, you know, from a different interviewer asking different questions.
So it's quite nice to to you to catch up on the same topic. Do you know what I mean?
Yes, indeed. Yeah, yeah. I hadn't really paid a huge lot of attention in the first time around. I joined the mailing list after this to try and see just how it's going to be applicable to me and what, you know, what I can do, do with it for whatever. So it's good to have that heads up.
Absolutely, because I think if we're saying to people right, we want our copy right back and we want to be able to, yeah, I don't think we're going to be able to win on that one.
But we could say to reasonable people while, you know, release your works on creative commons and we will, we will fund you for that. That sort of, that sort of stuff, I think, is going to be needed.
I would much prefer to be doing, you know, a monthly subscription to a something that's putting something into the public domain, then, you know, free, free Libra art, then art that's been protected for the life of the
basically indefinite, indefinite copyright infinite minus one day.
Yeah, yeah, I agree. I agree. No, it has great, great potential. I just want to see them watch the mechanism, see, see how it works and how, how I can contribute to it.
And it gets serious when you start putting money on the table, do you know what I mean?
Well, quite, yeah, yeah, that's what makes me slightly, you know, I want to, I want to understand it.
I'm not going to mess it up in some stupid way, but it's good.
Anybody who can help them with code and helping them out, the project, please do so on them for the rest.
I'd like to catch up with these guys regularly to make sure that everything's on the honkydory, you know what I mean?
Well, what I'd really like is an organization like the free software foundation or something to come in behind them.
And you know, give that error of credibility.
Yes, yes, I think that you voiced with the sort of thoughts that I hadn't quite managed to form.
Yeah, but there's, I wanted to just, that's for us to believe me.
I wanted to sort of watch the, the, the progress of the, of the project to see how they were doing and get a feel for who they were and how they were doing it.
And that sort of thing, before I felt, you know, that I really wanted to start to check in money that way.
But that's just me being ultra cautious, I guess.
Yeah, but when it comes to money, I mean, we don't have a lot of it to throw around.
And when, when you do, you want to make sure it goes to the right people, I guess.
Yeah, yeah, well, that's it.
Yeah, when you, when you live on a pension, then it's particularly an issue.
Okay, the following day we had machine learning and service robots, which was a hosted by Meary.
If I'm pronouncing that correctly.
And he was talking to a professor, Dr. Wolfgang Ertel at the 2014 Make a World in Germany.
And this was basically, they were showing off some crawling robots where they were learning themselves.
So rather than being programmed, they were, they were learning like the rest was to by trial and error, I guess.
Yeah, did you look at any of the videos of that?
I had seen them prior to this, so that did help.
But I'd recommend everybody, there are links in the show notes, so I recommend everybody go and just download those.
Yeah, I hadn't realized quite how far this type of thing had got this sort of artificial intelligence thing.
It got the way that the robots could be taught how to do things by a demonstration that they watched, which I thought was pretty amazing.
Pretty cool. Never seen that before.
Yeah, yeah, astonishing.
And I for one welcome our new overlords.
Yeah, sorry, it has to be said.
Oh, dear, dear, dear.
So the next day was 1799 posting from the command line to open social networks by John David Kulp posting from the command line to open social networks.
And he was going to GNU social and I think pump by was well.
Kind of nice, actually. Have you been thinking about this for, you know, some thermometer stuff or remote diagnostic stuff?
Yeah, yeah, I'd seen a little bit about this before.
I knew you could contact the interfaces, the API through, because this is an HTTP based API.
And so curl is possible, but it was nice to have it spelled out so it's a well in the form of scripts, I thought.
And there he is again with his virtual keyboards and his RSI reduction.
Yeah, yeah, he's got blather somewhere in the background doing, doing the cuts and paste and stuff and passing stuff along and whatever.
Yeah, it's all very, very cool.
I like this. I like the way he, again, another example of seeing some of these, you know, bass scripts, like me, everybody's cup of tea.
But she knows how beats, beats other topics of small talk, if you're out on the pub, you know what I mean?
Not that I ever do that, but it's me.
Show me your bass.
I love her.
I just love this sort of stuff. Anyway, so.
Episode 1800, which is actually episodes 2,100 was YouTube subscription videos by the man himself a hooker.
And there was only one comment that I wanted to make on that was does he have a list of the shows or he has a complete list on his website, but without the links.
Because I have written a script, I have you know, which actually should be a show, I think.
Basically to do, it's a wrapper script for YouTube DL to download subscriptions.
So I'm just letting this simmer for a while so that I know what works before I release it to the public.
Oh, very good. Yeah, yeah.
No, it sounded very interesting. I, yeah, it's definitely some, some channels there's whatever you call these things on YouTube that I'd like to hear more about to know more about.
Listen to watch whatever.
Yeah, exactly. And he was quite a nice overlap with the stuff that I already listened to.
So I'm again has with your excellent episodes on podcast subscriptions.
I'm not 100% sure if I'm happy that the episode has been posted because now I'm still catching up on the skate pod episodes.
So yes.
I know the problem.
Oh, this is brilliant, but no, no, I just like getting the jar of cookies when you're overweight.
Any of the episode 18 or one was in my personal opinion, the absolute best episode of the month.
We're bringing some real real world-like packing tips to to bear.
So that's I'm actually thinking of starting a little venture to promote the idea and I'll be doing a Indiegogo campaign shortly to fund its development.
With the pre-tied, pre-tied earbuds, I can see it going far that one.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know, not everybody. I know people were people were laughing at this, right?
But this is a good tip.
Carl, there's this gentleman saying somebody commented on the canoe social or something that yes,
mine usually has a little L and not R written on it.
You know, if you're like me, when you come out of work and you have to put on your glasses and you're looking over your glasses and you're trying to do,
it's impossible to find the L on the R on your thing, whereas if your earbuds are in your pocket and they're all scrunched up,
you just run your hands along, you find the knot, and there you are, it works perfectly.
Seriously, this is it.
No, it's an issue. It's definitely an issue.
I sometimes put headphones on in the dark.
You see, there you go.
So I'm doing my infomercial campaign that will be it as well.
Tired of hitting yourself in the dark as you get your earbuds.
The only advantage I have is that I use the over here hooky ones.
So you can tell them just by the way, the orientation of the hook, you see.
I have my backwards.
I used to have nice over the ear ones, which are on a lanyard, which they don't make anymore.
You know, the ones, and I could hang the sounds of the clip there, it was feckin' awesome.
You slowly put it on correctly and you could feel by the lanyard, which way was correct, left and right,
and clip it onto my back, and then you'll go to work, and you, my MP3 player was dangling there,
and then you could put it in your left or right ear, but it was perfect.
And now they don't make it anymore.
So I have to get these stupid long two-meter things, which I've coiled up, really annoying.
The other thing that I used to get, and I've not seen them for a while this one,
there's different lengths on the, you know, with the bit where the main cable is split.
You get two different lengths, so you can actually put it on the front, and then wrap one round the back of your head
to put the earbud in there.
So you could tell which one was which one was from that as well.
Yeah, the problem with that is, I don't know, it seems just to, the wire all the things to have more give,
and more more than the other, so it ends up pulling on either or the other ear.
So because this is the one with the weight is there, it has more weight on it,
so it's pulling it out of your other ear.
So it's okay for your left one, but not for your right.
Dave, I've done a lot of research on this.
You have no idea how frustrated this is.
I used to listen to podcasts.
He's laughing at me, folks.
This is what I have to put up with.
When I was at work, I used to go out for a walk at lunchtime.
So there's a quite big campus, you could walk around.
And he used to go out, put my headphones in and go out for a walk.
And then he's lovely new ear buds that worked so well.
And I went out on a windy day, and the bloody things get blowing out of my ears.
That's when I went for the, I tried the, you know, the sort of audio file type things.
But then you can't hear anybody else's, can't hear what's happening in the world.
But anyway, yeah.
I tried the ear ones with the hooks, and that was, that seemed to be the best one.
They don't blow out of your ears for one thing.
I tried the ear ones, especially when I'm in the gym.
And it's like, you know, you're listening to every sound of your heartbeat and everything.
All the scrunchies in your ear.
It's not, I don't like them either.
Well, I wanted to know if I was, when I was crossing the road, if there was a car going over and stuff.
That's sort of thing.
Quite useful.
But anyway, yes, the bar has been Lord folks.
So anybody who feels like HPR is too elite, listen to this episode.
So, but only a lot of raising the bar a little was another interview from David Whitman,
who was interviewing Emily Hampton, who was a Linux Fest Northwest volunteer.
And I'll enjoy this episode, I must say.
Yes, it's another one of those insights into how these sorts of fest work and, you know,
the work involved in being a volunteer.
And that's everything.
It's always great to hear people with such enthusiasm getting, you know, diving into these things.
Fantastic.
Yeah, and definitely putting in a lot of effort to solve.
That was more or less all the shows where there are only other comments outside of those ones, David.
Right.
Now, finding the comments that we haven't covered is going to be an interest.
That's a daughter challenge.
If you look on the episode, eps.php, question mark, ID equals 1a is all 6, which is today's
show, as you're listening to this, if you happen to be listening to today and not tomorrow.
Of course, it's going to be today by definition, although you're today, may vary.
The shows are listed by episode ID, aren't they, with the date.
So we can start with the comment, two of which were Bob Evans saying adblock edge has been discontinued,
which was in response to Fin's show, requested topic, favorite browser extension.
And he's saying that today, he tried to install adblock edge from a Zillodone road page,
and it said it would be discontinued, which is very sad, because I do have it here.
And it's a shame and a pity that that has been discontinued.
I don't actually know what the story is and why they're discontinued.
No, I don't know.
So the next comment was on socks of silence by myself, which was released last month on the 11th.
And the comment was, you're going to be saying, can it do this?
I've been trying to truncate silence function in audacity to do this since I was doing some editing of a podcast before listening.
But didn't start speeding up things until I started using pod kicker with the resissimo plugin.
Press Tissimo.
Yeah, thank you.
Thank you.
And some musical term as respect to it.
Anyway, okay.
Accelerated listening has really helped me catch up on the three months backlog of podcasts.
Anyway, I tweeted the question I played around with socks of silence command for a while trying it out.
Got it to work as you said, but what I could not do is leave the leaving silence alone.
Man pages, help pages, reference pages, all assume you want to get rid of the leading silence.
And show you how to do this.
But don't demonstrate a way of skipping the leading silence.
Nothing I tried to work.
And that's something you've tried to do.
You've answered your question.
No, it's not.
Because as I said in the show, I'm a copy and paste kind of guy.
But you may have done that, Dave.
I think you messed with the.
I did mess around it.
I wrote a script around your, what you demonstrated in that show, in fact,
where I could turn the silence truncation up and down depending on how serious it was likely to be.
So TLLTS, sorry, TLLTS, tend to have longer silences than some others.
So I'd done a bit more shortening on them and that sort of thing and also speeds up as well.
But I don't know the answer to that.
I didn't fully grasp how the silence truncation works.
The parameters to do it are very, very cryptic.
Yes, and they help really.
Yeah, it's tough.
So I feel you're paying Rigami and might have a look.
I think it's the first and there's all sequence and numbers.
And if you change the first one to maybe a zero, that might work.
I don't know.
I have not tried it.
I was so happy just to get a working.
There was enough for me.
And Hishi also replied to the show on Audacity labels that label tracks that John did.
Saying thanks for doing the show.
I've been familiar with label tracks since I've created the first one by accident months ago.
I never really loved myself to doing audacity since then.
However, it seemed they could help me and I started to digit when I started digitized my cassette collection.
And I would just like to, if you wanted to do my cassette collection, that would also be very useful.
I think that is a listener.
I think two comments on two different shows will be considered a listener.
What do you think, Dave?
I would say so, yes.
And I think the rules should start applying there, Dave.
Don't you think?
I couldn't argue with that.
No, absolutely.
So we had, so anytime you want to submit your show, feel free to do so.
How I got into listening to podcasts might be a good show to start off with.
And then we had a comment on John Colbs hacking 50 and 50 said there were single board options.
There's more reply to Ken Collins comments on the community news, other than the original audio, Ken, the banana pie router,
which is for even the ports is, I believe, the only single board solution if you want to build a firewall,
though I'm not aware of any firewall, just shows that it's been ported to Ken as right.
Most single board computers with the exception of old drive drive the ethernet ports via the slower USB bus.
And only and another ethernet port is to use the USB adapter way.
However, comments from Ken, I did get a tweet from another listener to that show.
And they suggested the board, which I ordered and which I've installed and stay tuned for an upcoming HPR episode where I review the other device that I purchased.
That's I'm looking forward to that one.
That's a teaser there.
Just see that.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
I won't quiz you on that one because, you know, we don't want to have any spoilers.
No, no, no, no.
And now your gummy is really pushed me where to stick there.
Yeah.
This is the third comment on three different shows now.
This is something I've been wanting to do for a long time now since my house is not set up to run wires anywhere.
I've been looking into the Gargoyle router management software based on OpenWRT to flash of my OpenWRTGL when I'm setting up the home office.
This is something definitely that will be on my list.
And no doubt he or she will be submitting a show on the topic hint hint Nudge Nudge Winkily Wink.
Oh, absolutely.
Wiring up your setting up your house or your network is always a very nice thing.
Yeah.
And in the last comment related to True Crypt and the GNU PG and update by Hohuka, there was a comment by Alison.
Chacon.
Chacon.
Chacon.
Chacon.
Chacon.
Thank you.
True Crypt.
Hold on.
Why are the two comments to this to Kevin reply after that?
Yes.
Alison made a comment.
The second comment number two somebody previously commented on that which is not in the in the list because it was last month.
Yeah.
And so yeah, she made the comment that she do want me to do it for.
Please.
She says thanks for this wonderful series.
Listen to them all and notably installed canine mail and the encryption extension for Gmail after listening to that episode.
I'm just listening to this episode.
Why listening to this episode?
Why what one might consider using True Crypt when GPG is under active development?
What features of True Crypt have that GPG lacks?
Now.
Two points there.
One is Alison.
You were a social.
And second is on the comments list.
I see that there's another comment there by Kevin or Brian saying audited.
Yes.
Yes.
I do.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He says can you can you not see it.
I can't see it on the episode on the show.
It's on the episode.
Oh, strange.
Well, the.
The.
It's very odd that the listing and the the show notes see it as you realize.
And Kevin says.
Bear in mind that any answer is provisional.
Because it's time.
It's been assigned to HPR zero zero zero one.
We love the comments feed.
Yes, we do.
How did that happen?
It's a big pile of steaming goo.
Dave.
I have.
I have an idea about that.
About.
Let's just replace this with an email form that automatically post to the database.
That's what I think we should do.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Should I read.
Yeah, please do.
Kevin's comment.
Yeah.
And then we need to fix this afterwards.
Bear in mind that any answer is provisional and for the present time.
He says.
But the fact that true crypt has been audited and passed the audit is a big advantage in my book.
Yeah, that's true.
The one thing I will say about the.
About the true crypt versus.
GPG and the reason I used.
One was well to crypt does a volume whereas GPG does isn't just a series of files.
I mean, there are you can encrypt a file.
Yes.
GPG.
Yes.
Because true crypt is effectively a sort of file system, isn't it?
Yeah.
So you can monitor as a file system and you can mount a file system within that as another file
system.
So there are given plausible deniability that you know, you put.
You create a file system and you put some semi private stuff in there like your bank statements
or whatever.
And then the real stuff they, you know, the real stuff you don't want anybody to see.
And then another one.
Hidden encrypted volume.
So there's a reason for that.
GPG is, is okay if you want to.
If it's like passwords dot text file that you want to encrypt and decrypt that would be.
That would be a good reason.
I think.
But well, that's like heaven no doubt.
We'll comment on this in the fullness of time.
Yeah.
They are slightly different packages aren't they?
In that in that sense, true crypt is a is a more feature rich thing.
It also had that ability to to encrypt some stuff and make it look as if that's all was
in the in the archive.
Yeah, there was another stuff there was a hidden there was a hidden volume wasn't it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's the comments.
So do you want to lead us through the mail threads?
Was there anything interesting?
The HBR mailing list.
Where most of the stuff is discussed in actual fact.
So second.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
Micah sent in a comment about accessibility.
One of the fields was missing on the was on the common form again was not screen reader accessible
and basically submitted some code to fix it to which John Copus got involved in discussion
as well.
So if there are website stuff at the point in time where I applied to this, I said there if you got
a website stuff replied to admin attack a public radio.org and we'll get it sorted.
However, more about that and on.
So it's basically been it's been tackled and been fixed.
If there are accessibility issues, we consider those bugs.
They will be reported.
They will be fixed.
No discussion.
Yeah.
It proved not to be that difficult actually.
Largely getting my head around how the templating thing within the comments is to get to eventually.
With mics help, we bounced it around a few times just to get the wrinkles out of it, but we got there.
Yeah.
Nice.
Yeah.
It's good to get that done.
And that actually prompted me to do something which was to send off.
So I'm just going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
Not a lot of people.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
All of the gmail addresses.
You've been removed.
I'm going to get that done.
I'm going to get that done.
Yeah, I wouldn't have left there to give out in the first place.
Anyway, there's a new Linux podcast system AU.
It's feeders, feedburner, feeds.feedburner.com, forward slash system, AU-og, or dash MP3 depending
on how much you love or hate freedom.
Funny thing, I can't seem to get that into my, I can't seem to get it downloaded.
Strange.
I put it on my list.
I'm not trying things to do.
Yeah.
I've not looked yet.
I've not got to that one.
Okay, the following one from me, again, a bit very roughly this month, I must say.
We would like to add show notes, tags, and summaries to old episodes.
So this is a big job, and what we want to do is if you are going back to listen to shows
or if you would like to, we're not asking you to go back and listen to every single show,
and if there's a few of us who will go and listen to 10 old episodes or five old episodes,
then we could put it on a wiki somewhere and maybe have a look and see if we can do
that.
And Kevin, we should graciously offer those to use eThePad Lite as an option.
We could also use something like Google spreadsheets or something.
It doesn't actually matter.
This is private, or public stuff.
This is all going to be public stuff anyway.
I don't think privacy is of a massive concern.
Just interested if people are interested in doing that or whatever.
It's a relatively easy thing to run a query and just don't put it somewhere, I think,
to do what you reckon.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
It would be no trouble at all.
So if you've got some time in your hands, if you're going to be flipping burgers or something
all summer and listening to podcasts, go back and listen to some of the old shows,
especially putting in stuff like a relevant, relevant, relevant.
I've had a problem with that word for a long time.
How relevant it is still today.
Is it now an historical piece or is it still relevant?
And the last one was the announcement of this show.
Which, of course, is open to absolutely anybody because Dave has the show notes already prepared
and all you have to do is stand there and read it in a really annoying Irish accent.
Oh, is that mandatory?
Yes, normally I speak like this, don't you?
What hair?
Which is my BBC accent?
I was going to try for an Irish accent, but I thought you might slap me next time and
see me if I tried that one.
No, when you master Scottish accent, Dave, then I'll tell you, you can start moving on
to your Irish accent.
Anyway, anything else that we missed?
Anything else that's going on?
Nothing else from me.
I changed ISP, so that is explaining why I have to be able to put up shows as fast as I would have liked.
And yeah, there are more shows coming in.
And traditionally, folks, over the summer period is when things start to slow down.
So, summer in the Northern Hemisphere, as I've said before.
So, if you're thinking of doing a few shows, throw a few shows our way.
Especially if you're coming to an episodes.
Yeah, coming to an episodes without doing a show.
Yeah, so there you go.
There are no shows to be processed and still a few slots left.
So, keep them coming.
And I'm still like, I have some beer in the fridge, which is actually quite nice.
But I sat down thinking, I must do a review of this.
And the entire show came down to, hmm, this is nice beer.
So, if somebody could do a show on how to review beer, that would be wonderful.
Well, that's a good one.
Yeah, that's very meta.
Or how to review a meal or things you should do about.
It would be nice reviewing a meal.
I don't know, reviewing a wine or whatever.
So, you know, something like that.
Why not, folks? Why not?
And if you have topics that you would like to cover, please send them our way.
Also, if you have your own podcast or you listen to other podcasts that people that you want to promote,
get send me their promos and we'll start adding them at the end of the end of our shows.
Just something we already agree that we do.
So, there you go.
I'm looking to get some promos for those.
Or if you have upcoming events, stuff like that that you want to slot into the end of our shows, feel free to do that.
All righty, anything else I missed Dave?
One upcoming show, now you mentioned that is Old Camp.
I think the timing of Old Camp has been decided.
If anybody is interested and hasn't heard, it's the end of October.
So, it's whatever that weekend is.
I don't have a calendar to end.
That's to be done to October.
Yep. So, it's like 30, 31st of October and the 1st of November, I think is the weekend.
Week 44.
And it's in Liverpool.
Liverpool, off at the same place at the university?
I think so, I think so, yep.
So, sounds.
Yeah.
Personally, I think that's a great venue, but certainly a lot nicer than Oxford.
Oxford itself, it's great, but the venue was not so good.
Yeah, the venue at Liverpool was fantastic.
Are you going, Dave?
Will you be having it?
I am hoping to, yes, if I can organise everything.
So, yeah.
I'm going to have a look at flights and then beat myself about the head at the cost of them and then end up not going and feeling really annoyed.
That's a shame.
That's very sad.
But it's a peck in Ireland, Dave.
It's in Ireland.
I don't know if you ever watch Father Ted.
Oh, yes.
Which is a show I could not get into until at a certain point, you know, where they do.
They look doogled.
This is near, far away with the sheep.
Near, far away.
No.
Holding in with the toy sheep.
That is the funniest.
That's one of the funniest scenes ever.
Liverpool can't work out the difference between a toy sheep or cow or whatever it was and cows far away in the field.
No.
This one is here and that one's far away.
And it's just the most brilliant piece of surreal humour of it.
Is it at that point that the penny finally dropped?
Because up until then it was, I think God, they're really stereotyping Ireland now.
This is terrible.
But then it is the whole pin drop.
I have a friend who is his mother is Irish and he also trained for the priesthood.
And he, he just quotes out of that all the bloody time because he says, you know, it's just so real from his experience.
Yeah.
This is Dave.
Absolutely nailed.
The oldest on the head.
I stayed in my final year in college.
I stayed in a seminary because they had built all these summaries in the sixties for all the thousands and thousands of priests.
And then they rented them out to the students.
But the cool thing was because I was like dorm thingy.
I could get my meals there for free.
That was just hilarious to talk to the guys.
And just listen to some of the stuff that went out that they got up to.
Funny.
Oh yes.
I've come to Father Ted for some strange reason.
Oh yeah.
Where Father Frank wakes up because after being is finally sober after how many years I was still on this feckin island.
Which is, which is what I have to say every time I sit down to book my flights, you know.
Oh yes.
From here I can go to Poland, right?
For I can get a bus to Poland or I can hire you know, buy a crappy car and drive to Poland.
Which is more or less the same distance away as I just Tarlant.
Yet to get Tarlant or indeed England for that matter.
It is extremely expensive and it's a monopoly between the furries and the airplane operators.
But on you, I digress.
Yeah.
Yeah, shame.
It's a shame.
Anyway, if you can make it, it would be great.
Yeah.
You should check myself.
Okay.
Good.
It's been a bowl as always.
It's been a bowl as always.
Thanks Ken.
It's two hours.
Now we're in 45 minutes.
Let's see what we get.
It's going to take a heart like good luck.
Bye.
Okay, bye bye.
Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of hacker public radio.
Yo.
You've been listening to hacker public radio at hackerpublicradio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
On this otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
