Episode: 1469
Title: HPR1469: HPR Community News for February 2014
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1469/hpr1469.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 03:44:44

---

.
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Phalan and joining me this evening is Dave Morris from the Highlands of Scotland.
Lowlands, actually, but who's his county?
Unless you're 17 meters below sea level, you ain't in the lowlands.
Alright, okay, accept that.
Actually, I think it only goes under 10-11 meters.
But anyway, enough to drown you, anything over two is enough to drown me.
Absolutely.
Anyways, you are tuning in to Hacker Public Radio Community News for the month of February 2014.
February already, Dave, can you believe it?
Time, eh?
Time.
Now, I have a question for our HPR listeners.
We do this show with the idea of bringing you the news that's been happening in around the HPR community,
which is mostly a review of shows which we like to do.
But I wonder, is this show adding any value whatsoever for people or not?
Is it instilling a sense of community?
Would it be better that it be done at a different time?
Would it be better that all the people do it?
Is there anything else that we should bring to this monthly show that should we stop it?
Should we make it a fixed date in the calendar, which we can do now?
More about that anon.
And general stuff like that.
So, any thoughts, Dave, or as a member of the community?
It's, I guess, I used to quite like listening to the community news myself because just as a listener before I got involved at all,
I just liked the whole process of listening to a discussion about the various shows that I'd heard.
But the episodes that I liked were where there was more than just two people.
You know, it was nice when there was a round table discussion.
I can't remember exactly who it was.
I remember Clatu doing some way back in the day.
But so it's quite prepared to accept that some people might not be that thrilled by it.
Yep, and if there are people who would like to take this and organize a round table or just do it for a month,
the only reason I'm doing it is because nobody else is doing it.
In fact, that is everything related to HPR.
The only reason I'm doing it is because nobody else is doing it.
Story to life, hey.
There you go.
But it's fun. It has to be said that it is fun.
So anyway, all the information that we use for doing this show is available on the website.
And if there isn't, we will add more to it.
So unfortunately, there are no new hosts that whose names I can mangled this month.
So that was pretty much that.
And then shall we go and review the shows, Dave?
Indeed. Let's go for it.
You have an active wiki that you maintain yourself to track these shows.
I do. I just outed you.
Because I have no memory. I have to write things down.
Yes, there's no harm.
Well, the mammoth that never ending New Year's show continued for episode 1436,
1437, 1438, and 1439.
And this was this is amazing that this continued as long as it did.
There was actually talk during that of how long, you know, the world record podcast would be.
And I was thinking, you know, if we just added a lot of few hours,
that we could we could ourselves, you know, do a easily do a podcast long enough to break the New Year's show.
The record for the longest podcast.
Absolutely. Yeah.
Yes, it was certainly long.
I listened to it all, but it was it was long and sometimes and maybe not quite as fascinating as some of the main show was.
I thought they the after show, maybe not.
I got a little bit of a marathon.
That's just my own personal opinion.
Yeah, I'm thinking if we're doing it, we should restrict maybe the New Year's day after show to a particular.
For a little, a little shorter next year or if we're doing a, if we do try and get the world record for podcasts.
The longest podcast.
I don't know, maybe I just had this freaky idea.
Well, okay, this is for me after doing the New Year show.
My wife was so annoyed because it's New Year is a fairly important time in the Dutch holiday.
In the Dutch holiday season, especially in our house.
But I was thinking like, yeah, well, you know, if we got other podcasters to come on and do an hour or a two hour show, you know, every day, you know, just for three days.
Then right there, we've already got we've already got enough rolling content to be able to do three day show in one block and release it as one block and boom.
We're the world record for the longest podcast.
How cool would that be?
Yes.
But anyway, that or not happening at all.
So I'm varying between the two.
So anyways, and I'm putting, I'm adding to that list of band items for next, for next year's show.
But I want to ask.
Yeah.
Okay.
We had a hookah with a generating a keeper with a gooey client, which would have been handy to know.
Actually, it was handy to know because I listened to that was the one that I used to generate my keeper if I'm not mistaken.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I thought it was great.
I was pleased to hear that.
The KGPG is not too bad, but it to use, but it needs to make explanation.
There's a lot of nooks and crannies in it.
So yeah, it was pleased to hear that.
I think that's the main issue I have with a lot of these.
Only thing to do with PGP.
It's very complicated.
It seems to be too many programmers and not enough people trying to make it simple.
Oh, it's something that you can't make simple.
I'm not sure.
Yeah.
I know.
I've waited through the the GPG man page over and over and over.
I tried to understand all of the ins and outs and I still don't feel them anywhere near there.
I actually listened to that on the text to speech.
With it with the man page beside me and it's kind of grasping it, but not 100% sure.
I know I've set up minding correctly based on what they were saying, but I knew it is what it is.
If there are more people who can help us out, all the better.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The following thing subject.
Go ahead.
Yeah, but there's a plenty of room for more improvement there.
The grouping of the series is broken on the website.
I know what's wrong.
I just need some time to fix it.
So that will be I'll be fixing that as time goes on.
Then we had John O'Bacon and Stuart Lammwich talk to Poké.
Now, I knew this interview was common because Poké and Stuart had heard or had heard about the fact that the New Year's show is on
and heard about the fact that John O'Bacon was getting dist for talking to Stuart.
Now, in that whole thing, I don't think they made it clear that during that conversation,
both sides of it were equally balanced.
It wasn't like they were dist and everybody was out to get them.
There were people, namely myself saying, no, Stuart is a big boy and whatever given the other side of the argument.
It was great to have them on, but I think to be fair on...
I don't know.
I thought it was just a bit of a showing that Poké got when it wasn't.
He's entitled to his own opinions as well and whether those are right or wrong.
And he can't correct everybody on the internet.
No, no.
I thought it was very big of him to have stood up and had that conversation.
And it turned into a really interesting discussion, I thought.
Yes.
Made me rethink some of my points of view on this sort of stuff.
I think Stuart's a very, very much pragmatist in his view of where Linux and Floss sit.
I mean, I summarising it very, very, very briefly, I know, but I tend to side with him, I think.
Yeah, but I think this whole free software thing is a journey.
Some people come in to it for the free.
You come in because it's free as in no cost.
And then you kind of go, you get burnt by...
Maybe you get burnt by an office document that isn't translated.
That doesn't, that you're not able to open anymore.
And then you go to LibreOffice and you go to the completely the other side.
And there's a whole gray area of where you can be at any given time and where you want to be,
which side of the fence you want to be.
I understand that that was a journey.
But actually, I don't...
I wonder how much of Stuart's road was the fact that he got offered a job in canonical,
where, you know, John was working at the time.
That was a point.
I also had found it a very interesting topic and I know Stuart and I'll probably tackle him about this at our camp when I'm talking to him there.
If I'm allowed to go.
Boss was about the whole sense.
I felt that John Owen Stuart's view of the community is the canonical community, the Ubuntu community,
and that as you saw as Fostem, I think you'll agree that the community,
there was no representation at all from Ubuntu canonical there.
There was David, there was Red Hash, there was all the other projects.
And yes, they were still able to fill the entire university with developers.
And all of these developers were represented of a tiny percentage of the other projects.
And that to me, the whole thing made me feel like the Ubuntu community is big, yes.
But there's more to free and open source software community than just the Ubuntu community.
Oh, absolutely, yes.
The position has changed, too, hasn't it, over the time since John Owen Stuart,
we're doing a radio as well.
The position of Ubuntu and canonical in the world of Flosses has changed quite significantly.
It is interesting.
Yeah, which is interesting.
Yeah, I hadn't quite put those two and two together.
The point you just made about Fostem was, yeah, yeah, that's quite fascinating.
I mean, go ahead, sorry.
No, no, go on, sorry, I'm interrupted.
No, no.
So that was us, that was us.
It was nonetheless an excellent show and a fair effects to Polky there for taking that on the chin.
But, yeah, I did have the feeling that it was a little bit, someone was wrong on the internet,
and I needed to correct them.
So, John, if you want to come on and talk to me about that,
do we get another episode?
See what I'm doing here?
See what I'm doing here?
Oh, well done.
More shows.
Yeah, very clever, very clever.
And the next day, one.
No, no, no, I just keep sort of muttering to myself
and not really having a proper conversation.
Go on, carry on.
Well, the next day, we had Google Summer of Code coming in with Jonathan Nadu.
And what I was fantastic about this was, I did an interview as well with the Google Summer of Code people.
At Fostem.
Yeah.
And I completely lost the interview.
I cannot find it on the recording.
Ah, right.
And on the backup recording, I had no idea what happened.
It's just, so I'm really glad we were able to do this.
And I want to thank Peter 64 again for allowing the swap of these two episodes.
Yeah, the Google Summer of Code is an amazing thing.
I learned more about how it all fits together from this episode that I hadn't really understood before.
Not being a student.
And not being in a position to offer anybody any projects than it sort of passed me by a bit.
But it's pretty damn cool.
If I was a student, I'd be clamoring to do something like that, wouldn't you?
Absolutely.
And, you know, I know Google gets a lot of flak and they get a lot of flak for me as well.
But, I mean, at the end of the day of the choice to use their products are not it.
That's your choice.
But this is, this is pretty cool that they are, you know, getting people into, to do stuff.
Because the beats crawling around in the, in the balls of factories cleaning, like what?
How I spent my summers.
Oh, sure, sure, yeah.
Sounds like a great way to spend your summer if you can do it and get paid useful money too.
Absolutely, absolutely.
Okay, the next day was 1443, which Fahrenheit 0100.
And I'm really glad I did this.
This was another one in response to an in response to a show, which was in response to a comment.
So this is a, this is excellent.
It makes me happy in so many levels.
Yes, yes, the cascade that you wish to have is this happened.
But I must say, this was pretty cool because now when I hear about the weather in the US, you know, about the colds,
or whatever, that thing that everybody's got cold.
And when I hear that zero and 100 were the maximum, how the maximum, how hot it could get,
and the maximum, how cold it could get in that place in, in Russia, where the guy was from or wherever.
I think it was.
Yeah, sorry.
And Gdansk.
Yeah.
But why did I think that was in Russia?
Well, apologies to all.
I didn't know.
And we, we all knew that Gdansk is in Poland.
Yes, we did.
But that makes sense.
That, that's cool.
It gives me a reference for it, which is, which is something I hadn't before.
And, you know, these are all arbitrary as, as the point was made in the fact that it's, you know, 50 degrees doesn't matter to the temperature itself.
It is what it is because, you know, we just choose to, to apply that sort of labeling to it.
Yeah, yeah.
I had this conversation with my kids, actually.
I was saying, you know, centigrade makes sense because zero is when water preses, et cetera, et cetera.
But, but it makes hell of a lot of sense when you take the context of this Fahrenheit guy and the temperature is prevailing at the time.
And, you know, context is all, isn't it, with these things.
Yeah, that makes perfect sense to me now.
So, Grant, OK, I'm happy with Fahrenheit.
We should all switch back.
I'll tell you what, if the US switched to metric, then we can all switch to Fahrenheit.
I'm happy with that.
Do you?
Yeah, I think I said to you before, I've already been on Fahrenheit because that was what we used when I was a kid.
And, and then we were told, no, no, you don't do that anymore.
And then we were told stop using inches and stuff and move to metric.
So, I've been through this.
I don't really want to go back.
Thanks.
Are the metric system, I can completely understand.
The inches nobody can, nobody out there can tell me that the inch system is makes any sense whatsoever.
And I know this, I've worked on, I worked for an engineering form where we had to put together, you know, compressors from Germany, which were all metric.
Then something else from England, which were all British standard.
And with other components from America.
And it was like a fecking nightmare.
It was a nightmare getting the components to fit together in the first place.
But the guys were able to go to machines and just machine up exactly what they needed to make everything work.
But getting spanners and bits and pieces, that was.
Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
That metric is not the way to go.
Actually, if there's some, if tomorrow like our new overlords arrive,
and there's an international galactic interplanetary galactic measurement system that every other planet uses, then I think we should move to that.
But in the meantime, let's stick with metric.
Yes.
Yes, yes.
The spanner thing I'm well aware of, as a, as a youngster being a motorcycleist, I had an Italian scooter, which is, which metric.
And I had a British motorbike, which was not metric.
And, you know, three sixteenth spanners versus the appropriate metric ones and all that stuff.
Which one is it?
Which, ah, you know, all of that stuff.
Hell, absolute hell.
And you get the tools enough on and it just rings the nose.
And then it wraps.
And then it wraps.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, nightmare, nightmare.
Yeah, anyways.
I didn't take you for a bike or a dip.
Oh, I remember.
It's quite a keen, a keen motorcycle, this one, when I was a lad.
That would be an interesting short topic, wouldn't it?
Oh, well, yes.
Motorbikes in those days were very strange.
Strange beasts, so not anything like what people talk about these days.
British motorbikes too.
Crap.
Basically.
That's the whole other story.
I now need to add the list of requested topics.
Anyways, 1444, J.A. Matthias with what is Firefox OS?
Short introduction to Mozilla's OS phone.
And he has convinced me that my next phone.
Well, that and seeing the phone itself holding in my hand at FOSTAB,
convinced me that my next phone will be a Mozilla Firefox OS phone.
Yeah, yeah.
I haven't, I certainly find this most interesting.
I'd like to look more in more detail.
I haven't had as much exposures you have to this thing.
But sounded fantastic.
Yeah, I have a very low amount of requirements.
And that coupled with the last month's show on how to,
how to undo live without Android.
I think these things can be coupled together to make a very nice
not monotony phone, aside from obviously the radio tower signalling.
We'll give you a nice phone experience without having all the
crud and cruffed that comes along with it.
Sure, sure, sure.
Yeah.
But I can see the attraction of that.
Absolutely.
And 1445, 22 Libra Office.
22 in the series of Libra Office, unbelievable.
And he just, I've just finished uploading a whole go of other shows from
a hookah.
And this one was open writer, Libra Office writer,
other frame styles.
And again, full show notes and everything there.
If you are using Libra Office.
Even if you're familiar with Libra Office and the first few
episodes were introductions, go to these later episodes.
They're, they're very in depth and pretty, pretty cool.
Thank you for saying so.
Aha.
Let's speak of the devil.
Just had to figure out where my sound input is miss set.
You'll have that.
How are you this week, a hookah?
Oh, doing just fine.
And I think we're just about at the end.
I think I have one more on writer.
And then it's Calc.
And I got five of those in the can already.
I don't know if you've noticed that I've modified the calendar page to
we only show 31 days of, you know, the upcoming month of shows.
But under there, now we have the list of the additional shows that can be
listened to or, you know, identified right at the bottom.
Cool.
Yeah.
I like that, by the way.
I just have to look on the hookah's host page and they were all indexed there.
And I was thinking, that's hard that you can get to them from there, but not from the calendar page.
So that's brilliant.
Very good.
And it also has a currently processing shows, which gives you the shows that are on the FTP server.
And I don't delete them from the FTP server until they appear in the queue.
So that way you can know if a show has been, has been uploaded or not.
And I would ask people, both of you guys, I get a chewing too.
Sorry, I was just.
And then I realized, thanks Dave, that the thing I was chewing you bought about was a document,
which I hadn't published yet.
So yes.
Yeah, apologies guys.
Okay, thank you, thank you.
Yes, I like that.
I like the changes, but you have to tell us about before you share this.
Very enough.
Yeah.
Anyway, there will be a new show note uploading templates coming, which hopefully will make it just a little bit easier.
And one of the things that I'm, that some people are doing is putting the show note,
the show number into the file name, which is pretty cool because then it'll just appear on the list here.
I was going to say that, that was one of the things that's missing is knowing what people have asked for,
so that you don't have to fudge around when you're working at which show you'd like, which number you'd like.
Yeah, what I want to do is, if people are using the template,
is you use your template parser thing to go in there and then make it as a reserved for,
you know, put in a reservation or put in a, put in a flag saying,
has been requested by Blah, you know, processing show by Blah, blah, blah, blah.
Unavailable or something, yeah.
That's, that's in place.
What we need now is the people to, is for me to push the template out so that people can fill it in,
so that it can be processed so that the script can do that.
Cool.
While we're on it there, there are 12 backup shows and now you see that it's 2011.
The first one was added and I think we should get a few of those shows out.
I'd like to hear them.
Yeah, I agree actually because otherwise what they're going to do is sit there for another few years.
Yeah, exactly.
Seems a bit of a waste really.
Okay, what do you reckon?
Well, the stuff I uploaded as backup is nothing that is going to age particularly,
but, you know, if you want to use them, go ahead.
Well, it's like, what's on your podcast player?
I mean, that was uploaded two years ago and how many of those podcasts have stopped in the meantime
and how many of the people have not enjoyed those shows as a result of it, you know?
Well, now that you point that out, you've got a point.
And who doesn't want to know what the best eggs in the world ever was?
Absolutely.
I think in less those objections, I'll fire this off to the mailing list.
Dave, if you could write down to ask me through to send actually, could you send them?
Yeah.
About the backup shows, just asking people, can we please post them?
And we could do them one every month or something, you know, this year's backup show
was, or this month's backup show was bland and we can have a separate little talk about that.
Was it worth waiting for it?
Anyways, then we had, oh yeah, the interview with Fernando, HF,
BOTELO.
BOTELO, yeah, I think so.
From the F123 group, yes, even though we didn't have any new hosts this month,
I still managed to butcher somebody's name.
So that was, he was, he was, his name was given to me by the developer of eSpeak.
And that was a kind of interesting discussion about what we're doing
and a completely different approach than the one.
Jonathan, Jonathan accessibility near you is taking.
Yeah, I found that I thought this was fascinating.
It was, I hadn't realized there was so many potential projects around doing this type of thing.
So it was good to hear from him.
Well, and you know, this is Jonathan, I'd already had conversations with them and then you each other as well.
So, you know, it's actually reassuring that there's people are trying the open source way in different ways and different things
and you know, see which one works.
That's brilliant.
And there's possibly a few more of these coming up as well in the future.
OK.
OK, OK, OK, well, FOSTEM part one, come up.
Well, I, I, I want to just put on record that I think you did some amazing work here.
Can you, you really did?
Having seen you in action.
I don't know how the hell you did it.
But these, these are great.
I really enjoyed this.
I would have been doing it anyway.
It's just then I could shove a microphone in front of my face.
You know, all I was doing was recording what, you know, I would have been asking anyway.
And the fact was been recorded, I suppose, to give people an opportunity to, you know, waffle on a little bit more.
But one thing about FOSTEM was was just the A that struck me was the amount of people at it.
B was the organization of the place was just unbelievable.
C was then you realize how much, how much open source developer, how much open source developers there are.
And that there was only a tiny percentage of them.
And when you think of all the developers that are working on a boom to work and represented there, or at least not that I could find.
And there were many, many, many, many, many, many other projects that were developed there.
I mean, the only, they were only able to give tables to one third of the people that were there.
Next thing I noticed was the amount of projects that Red Hat are sponsoring.
And the amount they contribute to the community.
And finally, the last thing is why I will not do a table as FOSTEM.
Yeah, yeah, the level, the level at which people were running these things was amazingly high, wasn't it?
It was not just sitting there and handing out a few stickers, it was really powerful stuff.
You know, if you compare the two events that I was at this year, but you know, in the Netherlands, Berlin looks area.
One was FOSTEM, and the other was OHM 2013, which we're also going to hear about this month, no last month.
We both had probably the same amount of people there, but the pace at both of them was just phenomenally different.
As OHM, everybody was relaxed, and every conversation that you had was a half an hour to an hour in-depth discussion with somebody about a topic.
And then they'd mostly along, and somebody else would come along.
But here it was like, bam, bam, bam, there's people coming by, there's people at the tables they want to talk, and then they move off.
Yeah, that was cool.
It was very intense, wasn't it? Yeah, amazing.
So in that episode, we covered the OSGO project, which was on the OpenStreepMaps boot.
The OpenStreepMaps itself projects about getting down to sub-meter within a few feet to use whole terminology accuracy on GPS units.
And since then, I was talking to a relation of my second cousin once removed, who probably toys removed.
I don't know, it's some relation to marriage four or five times.
And he was, he's a geo-geo-geo person.
Geocache? No, geologist.
That's the one.
Geologists.
And they were going, yeah, that's more than enough for us, you know, the GPS accuracy.
Yeah, that was pretty cool.
And with LeaproGraphics magazine.
Yeah, yeah, that was cool.
That was cool.
That was very cool, actually.
My friend who was there at the same time, his wife is a graphic artist, and he was, she was very impressed with this particular magazine.
Yeah, I had, yeah, it's a pretty cool magazine.
And it's very, very slick.
Unfortunately, I forgot something went up on my camera.
I think I can get lost some of the photos as well.
So I'm really jinxed all around me at OpenStreepMaps.
I actually have some quite cool projects.
He's a really nice guy, this Richard Brown.
And, you know, about their build service.
If you ever did want to build for basically every other distribution out there, you just point them to the OpenStreepMaps.
And the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStreepMaps, the OpenStre
table and it was basically a t-shirt selling operation. And it was pretty cool. And spoke to the
Hell on the West guys and it really took me a while to twig. These guys are writing their own
operating system. Yes. Yes. I was a bit taken aback with that. I've looked at the website. It
looks pretty impressive. It's still quite new though, isn't it? It's not quite production
ready yet. I've got that right. Yeah, they're still working on it and it's taken a different
approach. But you know, this is pretty cool. And there's a few other, my local log here,
there's a few other guys involved in other operating systems as well. So, you know, written
from scratch one. So it's good thing for people to, you know, there'd be different
operating systems out there. Sure, sure. And then the last one that day was the CA
search with Michael Tanzer. And I think I got enough signatures to be, I'm just short one person
before I can start assigning CA certs. This is, this is pretty cool. Absolutely. I was, I was
taken aback with this. I was in the same, same room as you various times. I had not appreciated
what they were doing and didn't go and ask him. So I could have done with, with signing up for that one.
Yeah, it's a pity, really, because if you've got your, there were three people there. And if you
get three or four people to approve you. And you know, you, it's kind of the same philosophy as
PHP circle of trust. The more, the more you are verified, the stronger the position you are within
their organ, you know, within their organization and the more certs that you can issue and the
more the, you can become an authority yourself. And then you, so I think, especially, I don't
know, why not? If I get, if I get that and I'm able to certify people as, you know, whatever,
whatever event that I happen to be at, pretty cool. You know, yeah, yeah, that's definitely
needs to follow in that. But I'd like to know more about that. So the following day was 1448.
And Tracy Holster telling people to cook cable, tot tot tot tot says he works for a cable company.
Oh, yes, yes, I'd forgotten your, I'd forgotten that that,
didn't exist. No, we are obviously, we're obviously open to the competition and whatever we do,
we also do stuff. But I really enjoy this because up until recently, the company I work for,
I can't subscribe to the company I work for because I don't live in the region where they're
allowed to operate. So there you go. This was pretty cool, actually. So I just felt you could have,
maybe giving us more show notes would have been a bit cooler. Yes, yes, yes. I can mention
that to him. If you wouldn't mind, please. Yeah, not a problem. We can always go back to each other.
We can always go back and add show notes. Just by the way, any of these episodes, it's not a problem.
And I believe this was intended to be the first of a series. Yeah, I hope so, because I mean,
aside from the cable cutting, I think what he's talking about is more efficiently using
you're more efficiently using your network. And I think that's in everybody's interest to do that.
Okay, 1449. And I hook up, feel free to jump in at any time. I'm continuing to waffle. This was
another one as a result of something that I did, which was the dinosaur video that I did with
Mason. And I asked Pedro 64 to how to fix the issue. And he put in a very, very good
write-up, quite nice show notes in this as well. Yeah, that was fascinating.
I haven't had a need to do this, but I've no way to go in when I do. Exactly. And yeah,
yeah, this is all of the file away for later. Very much so. But he also has the
the FFMPEG codec for making the video file. And it's due to YouTube links and the
deflicker script as well. So that's pretty cool, which is in Pearl. Yeah, I know it's that. Yeah,
good stuff. Is this a law? Sorry about you mean? Just suddenly I'm not hearing anything,
are we? No, I'm talking. Did you hear me? No, you went quiet then. I was wondering,
Oh, sorry, my, my end. Oh, sorry. What did you? And you know, it went on to 1450.
My mobile digital life, did you hear that? No, no, no. Okay, sorry about that.
Truncade silence will, of course, remove all this. And this was a nightwise episode on
his, you know, what he does in the car. He has a lung commute and eyes on the wheel,
have eyes on the road, hands on the wheel and not messing with them. Audio, not messing with devices.
This was pretty, pretty impressive. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I was, I like the,
the, all the references he gave to the various apps and so forth. I tried, I've actually tried
out one of his, his easy recorder, which one was that? I've lost it now. But he, he recommended
an Android app to do recording, sound recording, which I did just to hear that. It's not in the
short. No, it's not. It's not. No, that's why I was just hesitant. I was just looking at it.
But I definitely heard him say easy recorder, which I immediately went and checked out on my,
my own smartphone. Oh, great. Good. Can you email me with that link as well? So I can add it to
the show notes because I'm today. I was downtown and just come across an opportunity for one of my
whole Holland works episodes, which haven't started yet. And I didn't have anything,
anyway, to record it except in a full. Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure. He was saying that he, he makes
verbal notes as he's, as he's driving, I think he said. There's some really delusional. I don't
think, I think that's what he said. I'm not having a delusion here, am I? Well, if we can find
an Android app from us, I don't really care if you're having this delusion. No, it's definitely an
Android app. And I've tried it. It's installed on my phone. It looks pretty good.
Is it better than Google now? I don't use Google now. The fact that it's not Google was attracted me,
I must admit, but that's just my personal prejudice. And Google now is available outside of the
United States of America as it is within the US. Ah, okay. I wasn't aware of that. Well, you can
assume anything that's Google rolls out. It'll be another Asian months, two years before it hits
the other parts of the world, if ever. And we don't have Google talk or our Google phone service,
what's the phone service thing? Voice. That's the one. That's the one.
Ukely, the next day was me being a completion author, Plunker, at the, I went up to the Google
booth and said, anyone available for an interview, would you like to speak to him? I go, okay,
this guy who is here, and then he goes, oh, you might want to speak to me. Oh, my God,
this Jeremy Ellison, how embarrassing is that? But it was a great interview,
kind of great interview. More to do with Jeremy, just talking
than anything else. If I really enjoy that. Yeah, absolutely. It was brilliant. Absolutely,
really. The things he's done, just amazing. Yes, he stitched every company in the world.
So, I like that. Yes.
And my Zoom recorder failed. I think it just hits, it hits, it's got this weird,
old, DOS file system and it just hated a limit on the recording size and then just decided
not to record it. So the reason, the reason we have the interview at all is the,
the Sansa clip that was clipped to his, the pearl, which is why it's so quality, so crap.
But it's pretty, I thought it was pretty good, actually, considering. Yeah, it's not too bad,
it's not too bad. As I said, said before and I'll say it again, Annie, Annie saw,
Annie recording is better than no recording. So I also, for a lot of these first time episodes,
I did a lot more show notes than I normally would. It was very difficult to get all the links
together for this particular episode. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. But he's done so much,
like I felt okay, well, I better do this. Yeah, yeah, I haven't even hundered a lot of these up.
Being an icon item, use them myself and a 652 assembly person and so forth.
And a PDP 11 user, et cetera, et cetera, it looked like some pretty cool things to follow up.
Yeah, exactly. Well, if you knew what the word, then you'd need to look them up as well.
I just have not bothered to look over the years, because that's way in the past. And you know,
water under the bridge, as far as I'm concerned. So, but that's a bad attitude, I should go and
go and resurrect some of these things. I did remember the Sinclair QL. We bought one place I worked.
I remember coming out of the box and it came upside down. All the keys fell off.
Yeah, we said, hmm, have we bought a good, good device? We just bought one as a sample.
And all the keyboard keys fell off into the box. So, wow, Sinclair was not a company to make good
quality stuff. No, they made some interesting kit. Anyway, now that it, and you should do
shows on that because, you know, how it got us into Linux slash computing tech or whatever
series that we're doing. Have you done one of them? I haven't. No, no, I, I perhaps I should,
perhaps I should. Yeah, you should. I've always been a bit too
diffident to to whiterone about my own history and these things, but just go back quite a long
way. Yeah, but you should. I think it gives people a reference and, you know, that, that, it was
essentially how Jeremy Allison got into Linux episode. So, but it's also nice that, you know,
he touched on the future and I actually brought that up and worked. We're struggling with
SIF servers and I just go, well, the guy who called it this doesn't think this is going to be around
for much longer. So, yeah, that's a thought. It's not, yes, yes. So, there you go. And the
following day was 1452 coverage from Fostem Part 3. And you see as the show notes, a photograph
of the fridge at Fostem. Yes, impressive, but it is indeed. And if, if people who are not
beer carnacers, if you ever come across somebody, I want to know what to bring them as a gift,
just pick anything from any of the shells in that fridge and you'll be fine. But is it in Linux
powered fridge? That's what I want to know. It was powering a lot of movies that day I can assure you.
So, we had the tour project. I've actually started using the tour bundles since that for one or two
interesting things. We had the free software user group from inside the European Parliament,
which I signed up support member, supporter link. It's very easy to do anywhere, everybody should
do it. Even if you're living outside of the EU, just say quick, you can see what other people are
written and just add your support there. And it's believe it or not, has a lot more weight than
a lot of the online petitions around things such as you see around because these are people inside
the European Parliament. And it will help all of us out quite a lot. And then we had Jonathan
Riddell, who I've been a fanboy of for quite a lot of time with his interview about KDE and his
story about leaving canonical on all the rest. Yeah, Kabuntu has been my main operating system for
years. Me too, actually. Yeah. They've done some amazing work, those guys.
And it was the, I think it was the first stable desktop that I went to when I switched 100%
full-time Linux, Kabuntu was my first choice. Well, it was my first desktop for a long period of
time. So I do all this project quite a lot. And Jonathan had a very interesting story, I would say
quite impressed. I enjoy that interview quite a lot. And then I met up with Paul who we used to work
together and good news is he's gone off and working with the Drupal support companies who supporting
Drupal. So it's nice to see he landed on his feet. So that's pretty cool. And then the following day,
which after four hours along was I in the, in the tram, I got on the tram. I got on the wrong
tram and ended up going out to the sticks and had to find my way back. And then we were going to
meet up for dinner and then we meet up at the wrong station and you have gone to the other station.
It's, yeah, it's, it's, it's an easy city to get lost in as Brussels. It's, yeah, you need to know
what you're about. I certainly had some, some getting lost experiences there as well.
Not that I mind the getting lost experience with cell phones, a great way to find this,
you know, to find out about the cities, especially if you're on a, you know, one of the hourly
cards, so it doesn't matter how long you're in there. I'm really glad we bought those days.
Absolutely, yeah, yeah. It was, it was not the time to be doing that for a
late at night and it was time. So then we had the Mozilla team where I was talking to Brian
King, the European community builder from Mozilla, and about what they were doing and what
they're pushing. And then Tobias Muller, who is, of course, on the board of directors,
is going to know a project. And then we had the three lead developers from the CentOS project,
you know, of course, if you're going to be interviewing anyone, it's best to be the people who
just got employed by Red Hat. And so it went on and so it went on. They, they, I don't like to say
the quality of the people as they forced them was, you know, just unexpected for me, you know,
normally when you, the people man and the booth are like enthusiastic supporters of a project,
which is, you know, don't get me wrong, I'm not dissing them. But then all of a sudden,
the people who was telling you about the project happens to be the lead developers of the project.
So it was just that was, you know, very, very cool. Yes, I hadn't quite appreciated what
force them was about. I must admit until, until, till I heard your interview,
it's strange. And of course, I spent a lot of my time hopping around between talks and stuff.
So yeah, the, the type of people there, very, very impressive.
And I think the, the story is, okay, so you lead the developer of this. How did you start? Well,
I left uni and then I started submitting bugs for this project and then give a little bit of a
and then they hired me. It's kind of the standard, the standard employment track that they've taken.
And then we had the, sorry, Daniel and Doran, who spoke about the Foreman project and the
overt project. And a kind of little bit about OpenStack, which was separate. These were all pushed by,
these were really cool guys because probably people listening to the interview were realizing,
can you're not getting this, you know, I got there in the end, I think. Yeah, well, it's some
powerful stuff. And that kind of explains the whole takeover or not to take over the whole reason
behind the support of the CentOS project, why Red Hat are supporting the CentOS. They just want
to increase the base for the other projects, which are the OpenStack and the overt projects. And
that's where they're going to make the money. And so, the result is spread the love, more people
using it, all the better. So nothing sinister at all actually coming from the them supporting
the CentOS project. And they were great guys. And then completing the Fedora thing, I'm sorry,
completing the Red Hat thing, actually not because we have another interview the next day was,
and oh my god, anyone want to read their names? The guys from the Fedora ambassador steering
committee and the Red Hat community manager and the project manager. I wouldn't like to try
and be afraid. Judy and Yarsoval. Yarsoval, okay, cool. They also are cool guys. These all seem
like people that I would have no problem going, having a beer with. And then we had Paul from the
Open Embedded team the following day. And they had loads of cool stuff over in that booth.
Didn't realize Intel were so into the Open Embedded project, but then I suppose they would be.
That was yeah. Yeah, the hardware tables were amazingly impressive. I thought your interviews were
great. And you're, I like your pictures too, by the way, it gives you real impression.
Improved of the ones you can call it. Yeah, fuzzy.
Well, half of them didn't close. I had to, my, something's gone wrong with the SD card,
and I had to do a SD card recovery to get even these ones off of it. So it's big jinx.
And did you have a camera with you? Do you have a camera? Was it a phone user?
No, I never had a problem with it before. So strange. There you go. Trusting technology.
And then what I liked was the BST, Daniel from the BST project,
a free BST, Open BST, Net BST, and PC BST, representing all of them there at the booth,
and was just mad enthusiastic about it. And I think people were saying like the BSTs is where they
cool OSC type stuff is going on at the minute. Yeah, it made me want to, I've never, never tried
BST, maybe enthusiastic about giving it a shot at a must of net.
And I've heard from the Linux Lodites a very, very good discussion there, guys. If you
happened tuned into the Linux Lodites, you should last month, they had a podcast about the,
I never discussed in the, I don't know if it was last month or the month before,
but the, how free is the BST license and how free is the GNU license. And both of them are either
side of the fence. And I think, yeah, it's, it's your definition of freedom really. So,
pretty cool all around there. Yeah, I think that when you start saying which one is more free,
that's a really badly phrased question. Yes, but that was the question that were, that they were
posing. Yes. So it is, yeah, it's, it's the BSTs will argue that the GBL listen free,
isn't as free. And yeah, you have to agree with them. Free for who?
I'm sorry, the real issue is that the GPL is intended to protect the freedom of the user.
The BSD is not. Yeah. And one is more free than the other. The BSD being more free. But I don't
want to go into that argument for a very, very good discussion. Go listen to the Linux Lodites
episode, especially the one where they've had the feedback on the, on the argument, the last two,
not the last episode, but the two previous to that. It's very, very good. And to be honest, I don't,
I think the whole where your freedom thing is a journey. And if you respect the other people's
points of view, they're from a free and open source standpoint, the BST licenses, the GPLs,
the Apache licenses are all free software. So support free software, as you say yourself,
a hooker. Absolutely. And then these guys, this is, I put in timestamps at this, you notice
A this month for these episodes, I edited the shows and B, put in show notes and timestamps
and all sorts of stuff. Because yeah, I thought those people would like to jump forward to the
episode. So in the show notes, you've got the timestamps. But yeah, this company has test
venta, and they had little Arduino penguins, yeah. I know them here. You were cool. You could
get one free, but the deal was you had to solder it yourself. And in the two days that you had been
there, no one person had sold them incorrectly. That's just fucking awesome.
I know. I still don't watch that the guy is doing that stuff. I was hesitant to join in,
to be honest, because I couldn't afford the time. But it was, they was very, very good. It was
most impressive. And the only makes stuff in general was, was fantastic. Oh, they've got lovely
machines. Yeah. When I was doing the show notes for this, I had to go to their website,
look at that stuff. Oh, I want to buy that. Oh, yes. The stuff is that little, that little PC
that they had at the, that they had with the open street maps booth was one of those guys,
PCs. And it's, it runs standard Intel stuff. So it's pretty, pretty awesome. Yeah, absolutely.
That looks very impressive. The only thing I'm missing from them would be having one with two
network cards in us that would make a sweet little firewall, always on thing, with serial ATAMS,
you know, as a, as a bridge device for your network, it would be so cool. Yeah. Tempted. Very
interesting. Anyway, I digress. There was loads and loads of photos from that booth, you know,
what they were doing there. It's pretty cool. And then we had a talking, of course, with the lead
of the Pandora, open Pandora device, and they're bringing out a new one. Did you get your hands on
that at all, David? I didn't. No, no. I think I had to dash to a talk. I didn't have enough time
in that area to, to, just to see they were, they were, they were very busy too. They were,
they were being malved. I think a lot of, they have a lot of people who are very into the platform.
And, you know, basically a, you know, computer, little handheld console that you can play
retro games on. So, and you can then access it, use SFH and connect into your thing, a bit expensive,
I thought, but as he says himself, it's, it's the price of a mobile phone. And then I was talking
to the Python guys who were very nice. And then on to, of course, the lead developer of the Jenkins
project. And this was not a project that I had heard of prior to this, but this actually was
forked from Hudson, which was a project that I knew about, which were run by Eric, which was
another leftover of the Oracle debacle. Yeah, I knew nothing about this. I have to, I have to admit.
But since then, I've heard this name come up several places where people are running,
running test scripts, using Jenkins and running this and that's for Jenkins. And then, oh my god,
if I don't even know, not knowing anywhere search, just shove in a microphone onto somebody's
note. That's all you need to do. It's the way to do it. And Papa that I did know about. So,
but I had a brain thingy seizure during this, so I kind of messed up this interview, but sure,
anyway, and guy from Eric from Poppet Labs and birthed from the Belgian Poppet user group. So,
these are, these are cool guys. It's a me, you might not know how much use to these whole
configuration management systems are until you are working for an ISP or something that are quite
used quite a lot. Yeah, I knew of their existence, but the place I worked was not keen on getting into
this type of stuff. So, not the time I was there anyway. Yep. And then the following day, we had
a picture of the one beer I had all weekend. Oh, no, that's not so weird if you've heard.
Okay, that's Malia. Very nice, very nice beer. And I was talking to Wendy from the
Pearl project, who was very kind enough to give me a stuffed camel for free. But I can't walk
home with a one stuffed camel having three kids, so I had to shell out for two other stuffed
camels. I didn't do that. Good marketing. No, no, no. But I said she's really nice, and they had a
massive big camel next door, so that was the huge camel right across from the thing. I really
wanted to bring that home on the thing. It was great too. I liked that. Yeah, yeah. Yeah,
it's been a bit of time there myself too. I bet you did. Then we had Frederick Hormons from
who's kind of seemed to be the, from Red Hat, the more business-y type of interview. And then
Olivier, who I'm not going to pronounce his name because I got it wrong in the interview and had to
splice in the correct pronunciation of his name from the open office. Very nice guy, and there
seemed to be trying to make progress with the Libra office as well, so let's hope they can continue
to do that. Indeed. And talking to the guys from Elasticsearch, who I think this seems like a project
of your, if you need it, you'll be well into it and log stash and stuff. And then onto the Libra
office book, Booth, who I don't know if you listened to this interview at all. Oh, wouldn't miss it
for the world. I was pretty cool that he's making this, he's making the living, you know, supporting
free software. Well, yeah, there's that. And I also like the fact that you talked to both open office
and Libra office, and, you know, we find out that there's some level of cooperation going on,
which is a great thing. Yeah, exactly. You know, if you read the, I think quite a lot of the times,
if you read the tech news and, you know, listen to the bug asks, and these are fighting with these
grouse, and then they go to foster them and everybody's having a beer and, you know, things get
worked out. Yeah, I think the main thing is that we need to have a good quality free software office
suite. And whatever will get it there, I've decided to go with Libra office, and I financially
support the open document foundation, but as long as it's promoting free software, it's got to be good.
Exactly. What's what difference does it make? Exactly. And they spoke to Rudge here about the
peer-to-peer networks. These, these were pretty cool. They also have, under the umbrella there,
they were familiar with the barn project, who I identified twice. So a big supporter of this
sort of network, despite the fact that it'll put me under a job. And then we had BarreOS,
which is not bare OS, as I was told, and this was another, I think, fork of a project from Bakula,
which is a project that I've used before. And it was only later that during the interview,
I realized it was a fork from Bakula, which is definitely something if you are doing serious
backups, you want to have a look at that. And then XMPP, this was actually the last interview,
but I decided to put the first interview at the last, the miracles of podcasting for you.
Ralph, Edwin and Joachim, these actually was the second to last. These were XMPP, and again,
it took me ages to figure out what the hell they were at, and then I just tweaked it. This is
important. This one was important, actually, people. If you are listening, there was a
fuss weekly, I think. Was it a fuss weekly, or was it? I heard another podcast during the week,
you can't remember what it was, where there was somebody, oh, it was, it was actually a science
Friday, believe it or not, where they were talking to somebody from Google and a lot of
the person about the internet of things, and the Google person was saying that the internet of
things is not an internet of things, it's a bit network of things. Back in the day, when we all
use terminals and stuff, you had the terminals on the remote, and you had one computer in the
center, and terminals on the remote end, and they spoke proprietary protocols, and the internet
broke all that down and met it possible for the terminals at the end to speak to multiple systems.
And this XMPP protocol will allow that for the internet of things, so this is important, pay attention.
Yeah, yeah, I hadn't appreciated that at all. I had assumed it was just for chatting until I heard
your interview. They had a Raspberry Pi there, and they were hacking it as they were going along,
and did you get the Beatles reference? That made me laugh, I really liked that, yeah.
Yes, and there was a Yoko Wono who came in and disrupted things apparently.
Yeah, I don't know. She kept pushing John's button.
Very cracky off. That was it. It was just so enjoyable to do those interviews. It was just,
it was just, it was a pain in the arse. Actually, it was a pain in the arse because, as you know,
I don't edit interviews, but it was really tough to edit them because I ended up listening to
them as opposed to trying to edit them. I took a lot longer than I would normally.
And then we had Emil with the Jitsi project, which is something that I really need to get into,
which is pretty cool, because that runs on XMPP as well. That used to be SIP communicator,
which I didn't know as well. So you got to keep up. And then to wrap up, I talked to Jan
Frederick, which was he is one of the main people behind Fostem, and basically tracked him down,
bottom into a room, and didn't interview, basically, to say thanks.
Yeah. So it's pleased to hear that. They really, the guys that managed that the whole
affair had done an amazing job. It was so brilliantly, brilliantly set up and run.
So as he said, it's the result of long experience. I don't know, obviously, I just had to do it,
went to press which button, and so on. But it was it's fantastic, actually, because they
interviews, they had the videos up within a week. They, you know, as I was editing these and
pushing them out, and I just should have the thing, the amount of work that they've put in,
putting up the videos and everything. And then the last part of that was the entire free
solfer song. And I know some people were getting annoyed with a join us now and share the software.
You'll be free hackers, you'll be free.
Sorry, well, that's where that comes from. I thought it was a nice bumper, though. Yeah,
yeah. It was, it was, it was appropriate. I was thinking for the free BSD one, just before that,
instead of the, instead of the join us now and share the software, I was going to use the
don't tell anyone it's free, you know, the free BSD song that's a source trunk or the BSD project,
the BSD podcast. Yes, yes. But I can be ours because I was so sick of everything.
And somebody else who wasn't me this month had a show. That was a hookah. So other page layout
tables. Oh, a hookah. I am so glad you did this. I was beating my head against a wall
with a, with this during the week. And I went back and just listened to it and finally got this
sorted. Oh, good. I hate, I hate, I hate layout in our processing. It shouldn't be there.
Okay. If you're just doing word processing, I've always said writer is more than a word
processor. It is really at least to some degree a publishing application. Yeah, agreed, agreed.
But people who need to use a word processor use a publishing publication application,
when they should be using a text file. Yeah, I don't know. Many of you have got
notices from from the company from your head of your company are, you know, from the HR department
or the communications department or somebody about, you know, there's a new car park or this new
whatever. And they send it to you in a word document and you open the word document. And it's an
embedded photo of a screenshot or something. She's gone. Oh, my God. Yeah, yeah. I've worked for
organizations that did this. They print them out and they put me in a scan. I turn them into an
image and then send it in a document. Yeah. I think it's okay. I think better to do. Yeah.
You have to get used to technology. I remember some years ago at a place where I worked, there was
one fellow who would have his secretary print out his emails. He would handwrite an answer on
the bottom and send it back through inner office mail. Fair enough. Yes. And actually, that's
that you just bring up a point actually. I know I know we're pulling the piss and everything,
but I've heard so much about the Amageddon, what will happen if they, I was, yeah, at the hotel,
actually, the owner of the hotel was going, you know, if the internet goes down, everybody thinks
it's the end of the world, which I can understand in a backpacking hotel. But, you know, if the internet
shuts down, folks, we're just going to go back to the paper system that we used only 50 years ago.
Yes. It's not the end of the world. The fact that we've had this communication will make us
aware that the communication is there and try and fix it, but it's the end of the world.
Well, not quite, but I suspect it would be far more disruptive than a lot of people think,
because so many systems are now tied in to all of this stuff. Absolutely. Yes. Absolutely.
I'm not saying it will be a non-significant impact, but if the electricity goes out in the
morning, yes, it's going to have fundamental impact on the way people live, but especially in cities
and stuff. But, you know, there was a time when people, and there are many, many countries in the
world where there are cities where the electricity goes out on a regular basis, and yeah, you just make
do. Indeed. You do. Okay. The mailing list, which thankfully can now be found as if you go
to Hacker Public Radio, and you go to the links section, you can now link to the feed, to the
IRC, to the mail archive, mail list iTunes, Twitter, Google Bloss LinkedIn, Facebook and archive.org,
and you will see that all those links are just subdirectories on the HPR mail site, and you can go to
the mail archive, and there you can subscribe to a nurse's feed of the mail archive if you're
so desiring. Not a last this month. We had the show swap about Google Summer of Code. We had
announcement, community news. The audiobook club, which is Space Casey, has been recorded,
and then we had community news. That was pretty much it's pretty quiet. And coming up, we have
Libra, the HPR community news for next month coming up. Actually, David, your sender runs an email
area about the community news or not. Did you agree to that or did I get you to agree to something
like that? What did you want? Can I'm not with you? You asked me to speak about backup shows.
What we asked? Oh, yeah, yeah, that's right. That's right. I need to send out a mail about the
HPR community news. Should we fix it to a particular day now that we have the option to reserve
a show, should we continue? Let's see if people start a discussion about that, but we'll have to
wait two months for that to happen. Then we have Bentos got a show about various different things,
Exhibon to free, don't we have CT with free culture and open animation. Deep Geek with location
privacy and retro tech, low retro tech, the lowly pager. Very interesting. I'm looking forward to that
one. Nightwives with road warrior calm, man-lying combat life. You, Dave with Fostem, key signing,
Ahuka with the encryption email on Thunderbird. Sigflop with code is a life sucking abyss,
also my story. I hope we're concerned about that one, Sigflop. Keep keep keep positive if you can.
Then we have the HPR audio book clubs based Casey and let me just tell you what the next book is.
The next book will be Sharman Tales, South Coast by Nathan Lowell. I have already read this one
and not to jinx it for you, but it's very very good. So South Tales, Sharman Tales, one
South Coast by Nathan Lowell. And LibreOffice Ryder, a brochure project, one that anyone going to
a HPR convention should take. Track of, Poki with thoughts on GPS, followed by Poki, how to
win, find the difference games, and then bento with a whole lot of nothing chrome,
EWL, CentOS, what the fuck, non-mainstream GNU Linux distros and more. And then we have how to
learn time with CC clock by me. LibreOffice Calc, what is the spreadsheet? Oh yes, we're onto the
LibreOffice Calc. Continuous ink supply system. These are ones that I took out of the backup queue.
Incription and email, LibreOffice Calc sells more LibreOffice, more LibreOffice and key signing.
So there you go. So let me just point out what what I'm doing here. The brochure was the end
of Ryder for now. You know, at some point there's a lot more we can talk about, but you know when
I started doing this, I began with Ryder, but many of the questions I got from people are, well,
you know, aren't you going to cover the others? So I thought, okay, I did a pass through many of the
main points I wanted to start with on Ryder. I've got to have at least a year's worth of stuff to
do on Calc. You know, there's just so much in there, and then I've got to get to impress and
base and draw and so on. So it's almost like indentured servitude, but I'm actually enjoying it.
Well, sorry, push the talk, push the talk. What I need to do is get the series things sorted.
And when I'm sorting that, I'm going to put in, you know, a logo about the project about what
the series is and a little bit of a write-up. I'm putting a link to the RSS feeds. I'm also going
to be downgrading any series that has NASCAR's three or more episodes in it. But I will be adding them
to a quick find thing as soon as I write that. But again, with anything else, it is. It's getting
the time. And I see a few of these shows that I think, I don't know what your plan was, can
be added to our security and privacy series, like deep geeks, locational privacy,
devs, fast and key signing. Yes, you all are. It's just a, as I said, at the beginning of the show,
the key, it's broken. The series linking thing is broken. They are linked in the database.
That's fine. I just need to fix the way that they will be added to that series. So don't
fresh. They are part of that series. Sorry, I was just going to ask if the series link will be
shown in the show page itself. Is that the plan? Yeah, everywhere. It will be in the show. It will be
on the show. It will be on the episode itself. It will be linked from there. So everywhere that
it appears, it will be in there. Cool. And I want to get the RSS feeds for those series. So if you
just enter, if you're a security person and just interested in security shows, then you can just,
or you want to listen to them, you know, put them into a different queue or something, then we can
do that. Debrit. Now, I want to ask, what is the meaning of life? And the answer is 42.
Thought there were two shows I wanted to talk about this month. One was that I heard that wasn't
that wasn't here. It was one of, um, uh, nice wise shows, you know, story time with nice wise.
He did a very, very good episode on privacy, uh, which I think I want to chop out and post over here
onto this. I don't know. Did you hear that? Uh, Uh, I believe I did. Um, sounds familiar. He basically
went to the common arguments that you say, oh, they know everything or, uh, privacy is dead or,
uh, whatever. And he just took each of the arguments one by one and then gave a very good example
of, no, you don't believe that or you would not be going to the toilet with, no, you don't
believe that or you wouldn't be using, you're wearing clothes, you know, stuff like that. Very,
very, uh, good little episode. Yeah. I mean, no, I subscribe to the nightwise podcast, but, uh,
I subscribe to a lot of podcasts. So sometimes if you get to me a few weeks later, it's like,
oh, that's vaguely familiar. Yeah. And I've been, it's been a while because I've been catching up
on my podcast because I haven't been editing so many that I've just been on the blitz for
the last week. So everything in my podcast world has happened last week. That could be happening
over the last two months. So anyway, folks, that's pretty much it. Guys, do you have anything else you
want to say? Nothing here. I just hope the polar vortex goes away by the time we meet again.
Yes. Yes. Now I have an appreciation for his now that I know what the temperature measurements
and some Fahrenheit are. You know, I switched in, uh, in my car, there's a temperature sensor
for what's the temperature outside. And I switched it over to centigrade just so I could start
getting a intuitive sense of what those numbers mean. No, it's how you go. Well, you know,
one of the differences when you're used to Fahrenheit is that, uh, you know, what, what in
centigrade you call below zero is like, oh, just throw on a sweater quit being a wuss.
Well, we've decided while you're while you're on that we're going to, the world is going to
adopt the Fahrenheit system on the grounds that you guys adopt the metric system, then we'll all be okay.
In other words, not in my lifetime. I also did a, I don't know, did any of you notice welcome to
the HPR community podcast network on a little short blurb on the front just to explain what we are
because in tracking down a lot of the projects that I interview to foster them, they don't,
they're missing the, you know, two second elevator, you know, 30 second elevator page about what
their project is. And I realized that I had criticized them about it. And then we didn't have,
we're missing the same thing on the front of our own page. So I didn't notice to be honest,
I don't look at the home page, but I'm constantly watching the count.
To every sorry. Well, print out that brochure I've created and use that.
So that's pretty much it. Um, again, if there's people out there, I'd appreciate your feedback
on whether you think this show is interesting or not or anything like that. It's worth continuing
doing. If there's any way you feel that we can improve the community. If you want to do the show
once, that's fine. If you want to do it at another time, that's also fine. And if you, if this is
a rolling thing where we randomly pick a host out and assign it to them for a given month. So I don't
see that being popular. Yep. Well, Dave and I did it at least once when you were
not feeling well. Yeah. Yeah. That doesn't count. I had to come in. You were doing it all wrong.
I came in not for true to fix you. You got to learn to let go, Ken.
No, don't delegate. Delegate. Delegate. Right. My precious. Right, open to like,
replace myself with a script. Okay. That's it. Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode
of Hacker Public Radio. And don't forget to support free software.
You'll be free hackers. You'll be free.
Join us, Dave. Join us now. I can't do the rich and stolen impression. I'm really sorry.
Right, it's over.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio. Our Hacker Public Radio does
are we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on death
Friday. Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Empanomicon Computer Club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are proudly sponsored by
Lunar Pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LunarPages.com for all your hosting
needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a life, and do those own lives.
