Episode: 1000
Title: HPR1000: Episode 1000
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1000/hpr1000.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 17:10:37

---

Hello, this is 5150, and welcome to the hacker public radio episode 1000 commemoration.
The host of HPR would like to thank our listeners, without whom there would be no reason to podcast,
and I would like to thank the HPR contributors and everyone who took the time to send in the
congratulations which you were about to hear.
Hey guys, this is Chess Griffin. I just wanted to say congratulations on reaching episode 1000.
That's an awesome milestone hacker public radio is a great show, a great podcast,
and you guys put in an awesome amount of work to keep it going.
Thanks so much, I love listening, and you all take care. Bye.
Hey guys, this is Claudio Miranda. I just wanted to congratulate hacker public radio on 1000 episodes.
Quite a milestone, I have to say.
A big congratulations, and a thank you, not just to all those who have done what they can behind the scenes
to make hacker public radio possible, but the entire community that has participated and submitted content for the podcast.
This would not be here if it weren't for all of those in the community.
Big thank you to everyone and a big congratulations.
Here's to a thousand, two thousand, and many, many more episodes on hacker public radio.
Hey hacker public radio, it's Brom here, I just wanted to congratulate everybody on getting to 100 episodes.
A thousand episodes, and I'd like to send a shout out to my three favorite zeros at hacker public radio,
and that would be Koki, Ken Fallon, and Dan.
I'd just be glad you have a one in front of you.
Well, we're just sorry that you guys are still daily, and you'll see, you'll see hacker public radio.
When you're listed, stop sending in your show.
You'll never make it to a thousand.
What? Oh, this is their thousands. Well, never mind.
HackerPublicRadio.org, all the best, and may you never catch up with us.
Hi everyone, this is Dan from Linux Outlaws, and I just want to say a big congratulations to everyone.
A hacker public radio for their thousandth show. I mean, a thousand shows, that's amazing.
I used to think we were doing quite well with like 260 shows, then I saw how many of you guys had done.
Keep up the amazing work, and I look forward to the next thousand. Take care.
Hi, hacker public radio, this is Becky.
Hello, it's Philip.
New bra, and we're from Crunchbang Towers.
Swinging by, to wish you a new...
I'm not swinging by, we're recording a message to say congratulations on a thousand episodes.
Yeah, way to go. Oh, you're not recording from this.
I'm not saying it. I'm recording.
No, you're not. I'm sending this.
No, you're not. I am.
So, yeah, thank you for 1,000 episodes, doing a fantastic job.
And HackerPublic Radio, it's brilliant resource. So, yeah, thank you.
Goodbye.
That was Becky saying goodbye.
It's a great job.
Yeah, you're special.
You are.
HackerPublic Radio, a thousand episodes, fantastic job.
Kudos to all the contributors, and to the operators, hats off to you, doing an excellent job in a wonderful services community.
Keep it up for another thousand. Love you, baby. Bye.
Hello, this is Frank Bell, with congratulations to HPR on his 1,000 show and on the upcoming Kilo show.
I want to thank HPR and all his contributors for everything they've given me in the way of knowledge and information and entertainment.
I remember exactly when I started listening. I think it was somewhere in the late 500s and early 600s.
I can't remember why, because I heard about HPR from Clotus Podcast, which at that time I think was still called the Bad Apples.
I listened to almost every HPR episode all the way through the ones I am most likely not to listen to all the way through.
Are the ones who get into technical matters so far above my head, I can't follow them.
For example, someone decides to explain the geekier aspects of a programming language.
I'm not a color. I've done it a little bit in the way of bad scripts, but I'm not a color, and I get lost quickly.
But otherwise, I listen to everyone, and they give me a chance from the variety to hear points of view and bits of information I might not have heard otherwise.
So HPR, thank you very much. Thank you for giving me an opportunity to try my hand at podcasting.
So please, keep up the good work. Thank you again.
Hey buddies, this is Jesra, and you're listening to Hacker Public Radio.
Hello, my name is Fab. You might have heard me on Linux Outlaws once or twice, or seen me around on the internet.
I just wanted to check out Public Radio a happy 1000. That's awesome. You rock. Keep on podcasting people.
Hello, this is Russ, K5TUX from the Linux in the Handshack Podcast.
On behalf of Richard, my co-host, myself, and all the members of the Black Sparrow Media Network, we would like to congratulate Hacker Public Radio on its 1000th episode.
Thank you also to the community and contributors that make HPR possible. We're looking forward to the next 1000 episodes.
To Hacker Public Radio from Cafe Ninja, congratulations on 1000 episodes. A strong reflection of view and your community. Keep podcasting on.
Hey HPR, congratulations on 1000 episodes. Hope you hang around for another round.
Hello, my name is Johan Pravloot from Natalus in Malib, Belgium, and I want to congratulate Hacker Public Radio with their 1000 episodes.
Thank you.
This is Kevin Grenade, wishing HPR a happy 2 to the 10th episode.
Hello, Hacker Public Radio, listeners and Hacker Public Radio content producers. This is Nightwise from Nightwise.com, and I want to wish you every single one of you.
A big congratulations on the 1000th episode of Hacker Public Radio.
As one of the many, many voices in this fantastic podcast that I've both contributed and listened to with great joy, I must say Hacker Public Radio is one of the podcasts that stays true to the one and only deep core of what podcasting is supposed to be.
We're not trying to be the next radio hosts, we're not trying to be the next leal of ports, but this is true, deep geek ultra interesting, super versatile podcasting, and it absolutely is something that is so enjoyable both to produce for and to listen to.
So together with you, listeners and producers, I wish you a big congratulatory 1000th episode, and I know that we will reach 2000 pretty soon.
Congratulations, bye.
Well from Scotland, this is Mr. X.
Congratulations, HPR on your 1000th episode. May our LUM always reach.
Hello, this is NY Bill. I'd just like to say thanks to everyone for getting HPR to a thousand shows. It's pretty incredible. Keep up the good work everyone.
This is Kuvmo from Boise, Idaho, wishing you all a happy 1000th episode, and here's to another 1000th. Thanks a lot guys.
Hey everybody, it's Pokey. I just wanted to say thank you to everyone who's ever been involved with Hacker Public Radio, and congratulations for reaching this milestone of a thousand episodes.
I've listened to and appreciated every single one of them. Let's hope for a thousand more, at least.
Good morning, good afternoon, good evening, good evening, Mr. Gadget. And I was just calling to congratulate Hacker Public Radio on its 1000th episode.
I think I did catch maybe an episode here or there have been around, but I really started listening when I heard about me today with a techie initiative.
And I can't remember on who show I heard about that. It might have been Norbert Davis. It might have been one of my techie podcasts talked about it.
Of course, that being a kind of a riff on the Twitch network that Leo LePort started. And so the today with that techie was when I really started listening, I always enjoyed episodes right on through the main change to Hacker Public Radio.
And of course, I finally got my butt started calling in shows. So congratulations guys. Congratulations to all of us because it is truly a community effort.
But especially, you know, congratulations to Kim who really got the community effort version really going and kept it going.
And to everybody who has contributed both as listeners, as well as contributors and commenters well done and see all F2 files.
Be sure to follow out here. Bye.
Hey everybody, it's really nice. I just wanted to congratulate HPR on 1000th episode to keep it up.
Welcome to the Sunday morning Linux review.
Matt Anders. Happy 1000th because we love Hacker Public Radio. They have been good to us and we would like to be good back to them.
Hello Hacker Public Radio. Hello people who listen to Hacker Public Radio. I'm Scott Siggler. I'm a fiction author and I have heard the news.
The magical bubbly ever-vestant news that Hacker Public Radio has reached 1000 episodes. It's four digits. That's a lot.
That's more than 10. It is more than 10. Now of course, I have to take a moment to pat my own back and the number of episodes that I've done.
My Fiction Podcasts at ScottSiggler.com. And we have done 100,000 episodes so far. We have 100,000 which is more than 1000.
And you can't, well you can't see them all right now because we had a server crash and we lost some. But there would, there have been 100,000 episodes.
Mostly audiobook stuff like my book The Rookie, which if you in your book club, if you ever decide that you want a really cool book, that is the blind side.
Meet Star Wars, meet the Godfather, an American pro football league, 700 years in the future where mankind has discovered the stars, met alien races and recruited them to play different positions in football based on their physiology.
If you like receivers that can jump 25 feet in the air and linemen that can bench press 5,000 pounds in linebackers that want to eat you. If you like that sort of thing, The Rookie might be for you.
But congratulations on 1000 episodes and just think if you multiply how long it took you to do this by 100, you'll have as almost as many episodes as I do including the crash. That's the truth.
This is Bob Wooden. I'm one of the new hosts for HPR for 2012. Thank you, HPR for 1000 episodes.
Hello, my name is Six Fluff and you are listening to episode number 1000 episode 1K.
Hello, Hacker Public Radio. This is Brockton Bob. Congratulations on 1000 episodes and I hope to hear 1000s more. Keep up the good work.
This is Trevor from London just wanted to say, well done, Hacker Public Radio and everyone who's contributed looking forward to the next 1000.
Hello, Hacker Public Radio. My name is Ulysses Manuel López Amián from Gilpán Singo, Guerrero, Mexico. We're listening to you.
Thanks for the good work. Keep on doing.
Hello, Hacker Public Radio. This is Verbal from Chicago and I just wanted to congratulate you on your 1000th episode and now I have to clean up after my dog just turned over the garbage can. Take care.
Hello, this is Ahuka and I am very, very happy to be able to wish a wonderful 1000 episode greeting on everyone at Hacker Public Radio.
I know that I first started listening back when it was today with a techie and there were some ups and downs along the way.
I think everyone would admit that I was listening. I was not a contributor and I kind of got out of listening and I'm not exactly sure what brought me back.
I probably heard from someone that, hey, Hacker Public Radio is really good again and you need to start listening.
So I started listening and then one of the things that I've always been very interested in is making a contribution wherever I can.
And I do that in a number of ways but this was something I thought, ooh, I've never really done any audio recording stuff. I wonder what's involved there.
So I decided to go out and buy a microphone. I've got a blue snowball mic. So that was my one purchase.
Under 100, as I recall, and everything else is just an ordinary computer, Linux, Audacity, and you just plug in the microphone and start going.
And it's been a blast. I've really enjoyed doing it and I enjoy being a part of the Hacker Public Radio family, so to speak, as a contributing author or whatever the word is for what we do.
So it's been great. I've been contributing things since the beginning of 2012 and try to be pretty regular and get out at least one recording a month sometimes too, depending on how things go.
And it's been a lot of fun. So I would want to just say to everyone at Hacker Public Radio, great, wonderful job. I'm so happy to be here.
And what do you say? Let's do a thousand more. Yup for it.
Get out Hacker Public Radio. Westos Tux here from Perth, West Australia. I just thought they can congratulate you on your 1,000th episode. I hope to hear heaps more of them. Get you later.
Hey Hacker Public Radio, this is Toby Minne. Congratulations on reaching your 1,000th episode. Your podcast, entertain, educates, and makes my daily commute bearable.
Thanks and keep up the good work. Cheers.
Yo HPR, you guys are freaking great. Congratulations on show 1,000. It's Chris from Jersey. I've kind of dictated the Linux over the past six months and I've gained a lot of knowledge listening to your podcast.
I've just got done listening to 991, which is MIDI using Pi game. And I'm going to be doing these projects with my kid. I got the Raspberry Pi coming in. So yeah, you guys are freaking great.
And I hope to return the favor and provide a podcast sometime certainly in the next 1,000 as well. Peace out, guys.
Hello Hacker Public Radio. This is Winnego and I just wanted to wish you a happy 1,000 episodes. I'd like to personally thank everybody who's uploaded an episode so far and thank in advance anyone who's going to upload one of the next 1,000.
Hi, this is Ken wishing everybody on Hacker Public Radio at fantastic 1,000 episodes and I look forward to the next 1,000.
This is Lord Drockenblut, the digital dragon wanting to congratulate HPR and everyone who's contributed to help make HPR what it is. It's a success on all 1,300 episodes. It's completed at this point. Cheers.
This is AllConDK congratulating Hacker Public Radio on producing 1,000 reasons why anyone can become a podcaster.
This is the voiceover guy from the phone circle podcast wishing congratulations on 1,000 shows at Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on day through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener by yourself. If you ever consider recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dark pound and the economical and computer cloud. HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released on your creative comments, attribution, share a line, lead us our license.
