Episode: 1004
Title: HPR1004: Sunday Morning Linux Review Episode 34 - SUSE and Venus
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1004/hpr1004.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 17:18:58

---

Thank you very much!
Welcome to the Sunday Morning Linux Review with Matt Anders, Tony Beamous, and Mary
Tomich.
All right, so this is episode 34 for June 3rd.
Yes, it's the 28th anniversary of Susil Linux and it coincides with the transit of Venus.
Yeah, speaking of the transit of Venus, that's a really cool thing.
I was on a bunch of websites this week trying to find something I could use to watch it
without going blind.
Okay.
But from a website, what were you going to download?
No, no, like instructions on how to build something.
Oh, okay.
They say that you can use like number 14 welders goggles, but they've got to be real
number 14 made out of glass.
Not the ones out of polycarbonate because the polycarbonate ones let too much light
through.
Oh, really?
So probably not going to actually get to see it.
I'll probably have to watch a video of it.
But anyway, also, this is the last time it's going to happen in our lifetime.
So you mean those eye doctor, big plastic glasses that you wear when you come out after
your pupils have been dilated, won't work?
Not enough, no.
Yeah, not enough.
Have you seen, you can take a mirror and shine up against a big wall and it'll do the
same thing.
Yeah, that was one of the things I saw was the shine of mirror on a white, like point of
mirror at it and have the reflection of the mirror shining at the wall, at a white
wall.
It's too complicated.
I did that for the solar eclipse one time and it worked really good.
I just shined it on my garage wall and I just watched it.
Yeah.
Yeah, but I think it's not quite the same as watching it directly.
I mean, obviously, safely with some very dark glass or whatever.
Yeah, like the one website said it had to be that number 14 welders that welders use,
the number 14 green, but it has to be, they said it had to be the glass, not the polycarbonate.
Just think, on that day, what is it, the fifth?
Just think welding in America is going to stop all those welders looking to be as if
they're working.
Well, that's what they said though, that most welders don't use the number 14 glass anymore
because they don't need it and they use this polycarbonate that says it's 14 but not
and it lets a lot more ambient light through like the picture they had where they showed
a picture of like of a welder.
No, no, no.
Like trees and stuff with the sun behind it and they showed it with the number 14 glass
and all you could see was the sun and then they showed it with the polycarbonate number
14 and you could see all the trees and the road, yeah.
So you know what I'm wondering is whether it's like that lightening dark glass where
if you're out in the sun at darkens or something, maybe it's okay, nevermind.
Alright, I think we've talked about the two on the gas.
Moving on.
Okay, two fifth.
Alright, five.
Transitive Venus.
Alright, Tony, so what did you do this week?
So this week I continued working on my Gen2VM and I got a working system going.
I got, it took me an entire week but it was because there's a lot of missteps.
It took an entire week to get all of this through.
And not including a week.
And it's like Mary said last week, Gen2, the distribution for guys with too much time
with their hands.
Nothing else to do.
Yeah.
But I mean there's a lot of missteps that I did and so I thought, well, why don't I try
it again and kind of just distill down to what I really need and know the steps to do it
in order and then I get everything installed right.
So I pulled one of my D830s out and started the install.
And I actually did it from Ubuntu 10.4 live CD and just did the CH root from there and
it worked fine.
Except for I had a problem with Grub.
Once Grub, I installed Grub.
I had the flash drive plugged in and yeah, well, and then Grub, I had to have the flash drive
plugged in to be able to boot Gen2.
So once I booted Gen2, then I had to run Grub again to pull the flash drive out and yeah.
But I got it working.
Maybe how many times do I see my key question?
How many times do you have to compile the kernel?
Just once.
The first time?
Yeah.
We actually worked pretty good.
Although, you know, I have to say, I'm trying to get my cred level up here, but I have
to give a little pros.
Gen2 has this handbook that you just step by step, what to type in and it works.
So I learned a lot in the meantime.
A lot of things I didn't know.
I didn't for you.
Yeah.
I'm just going to have to copy commands from the internet.
Because when they edit more than just list the commands, they explain why each command.
Yeah, no.
I'm impressed.
And I'm not being condescending.
No, that's great, Tony.
I think that's pretty cool.
So will you do with it now?
Are you going to run it or are you just going to?
I think I'm going to try to tweak as much as I can and mess around with it.
I say I got it working and got it perfectly as I wanted, but it took me one full day.
So I started it like noon, no, no, no, it took me about two days.
I started eight o'clock in the morning and one day and then it compiled for almost 30
hours or 28 hours or something, a lot of compiling time.
And then it was about noon the next day.
I had it done.
You know, if you were in Boy Scouts, you know, you'd probably get a little bad or something.
I think I'm going to make up a gen to Mary Bals from over 24 hours.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Yeah.
The image alone took almost 10 hours of off, of no.
It's all the known stuff, all of X.
And that's pretty cool.
That's great, though.
That's cool.
You certainly got further with compiling a kernel than I did.
Of course, now I feel the challenge.
You know, I think I think you did fine with compiling a kernel.
It was there.
You probably just had the wrong boot options.
I think you had a set wrong and grow up, actually.
That was lilo.
Oh, well.
But that was one of the problems.
That was one of the problems.
And I did, I did go into lilo comp and fix, fix that.
So it was pointing to the, and it was correctly named and all of that.
And I did get further, but it's still.
But, yeah, but there's still boot options at the end.
Not just the what kernel to point to.
Yeah.
There's still boot options have to, because I had to tweak the,
a couple of times on this laptop, which one to use.
Okay.
I'll, I'll have to check.
That's all I'll say.
And also, if, if it's all in one partition,
remove the NNRD RAM.
Or in the RAM art.
Yeah.
Remove that.
And because that caused problem.
Also, I tried to use it this time.
And it's still giving me a problem.
I think I set up a separate partition for home.
Well, that's fine.
There's just a stuff that needs to boot.
Like, yeah, as long as Etsy and user and bin and S bin are all in the,
all in the root partition.
Okay.
And temp.
Then you should be good.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
Um, I might just dust that thing off and try it again.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
So, wow.
That's great.
Yeah.
Mac.
Yeah.
Well, I had a customer that I took some laptops back to them that I did a reinstall.
And they had Vista on them.
So I reinstalled Vista.
Customer says, oh, we wanted XP.
Okay.
So I brought them back.
And I told them I do XP for no charge.
And I brought them back.
And it took me an entire day practically to figure out how to get this.
The entire day at no charge.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it took me almost a whole day to figure it out.
It was a switch in the bios.
I had to tell the hard drive to stop.
Stop identifying itself or stop using like something like H-A-T-C-I or something.
I don't remember exactly what it was.
And to it like say it was an I-D drive even though it was a C-A-D drive.
And as soon as I did that, XP and S-A-D drive.
driving, even though it was this hated drive. And as soon as I did that, XP installed right away.
Well, so you had your whole day, your whole day episode.
It was horrible. Windows I hate them, but it pays me so.
Well, you got to eat, I guess so. And that's for myself.
Well, one of my big projects this week was an attempt to root my HTC Android phone. So I had
been emailing with the guys from Droid Nation, which is a great little podcast and really
a good group of guys. Jonathan and Steven and Sean and the rest of them.
Anyway, so we were on it Wednesday night and we were going to get started and we discover that
the bootloader my HTC uses is a newer version. And so it's I think 1.5 and the very commonly
available instructions and methods for rooting it are for bootloaders 1.3 and 1.4.
1.5, the instructions are still, I mean, they're still somewhat preliminary and none of us
really felt comfortable walking me through it. I think if we had all been in the same room and
had done it, then we would have done it. But because we were, you know, speaking via
mumble and all of that, we just decided not to not to do it. Not to break your phone.
And that's fine. If I end up breaking it, I'll just get another one. But yeah, we just decided
not to. And I feel comfortable. I mean, if we break it because we're using a method that's
well known and common, that's one thing. But I think we're going to do it at some point,
but we just decided not to. But it was, I had a good time anyway. It was really fun listening
to those, to those guys. They gave me a little bit of a hard time for running KDE because Steven had
to, we had to make sure that my, my mumble configuration was correct. So we used that chrome
remote desktop. And it was the first time I'd used it. You know, again, it's an ad in for the
chrome browser. And I think it was the second time he had used it. And he had, he told me he
had been pretty impressed with it. And I tell you, it was, it was really something to see. And as
I think we said before we started recording, the, that browser must use some, some of the chrome OS
code in it because it just, he just took it over. That's really cool. That was very cool.
I have, I have that extension installed on my Chrome, but I've never used it. Is that
cross platform like I can remote into Windows? That's cool. That's why I installed it so that I could
use it as an arcade kind of plan. So that was what I did. But speaking of chrome OS though,
I do have, I may have mentioned on a previous show that I was having a real problem with chrome
playing videos back on the internet. And I was having to use Firefox because chrome for some
reason was playing everything fast forward. And I couldn't figure out why I couldn't get it to fix it.
Well, I was complaining about it to my son this week. And he says, he says, well, what are you
running? I said, well, I'm running Chrome on stable. And he goes, well, wait a minute. Stop.
You're running something called unstable. And you're bitching about it, not working right.
And I said, well, yeah. And he goes, you're just an idiot. And he walked away.
So I said, well, wait a minute. Maybe he's got a point there. So I installed Chrome stable instead
of unstable. And it all works good now. All right. I'm a little less than to be learned there, Matt.
I like to say we've said the same thing, but Matt just doesn't listen to us.
So no matter what he says to his son, he still listens to his son.
Oh, I know as it works now. I'm in good shape. All right. Cool.
Matt, what's happening with the kernel?
We had a really light week this week with the kernel, okay? We had a release candidate released
on Saturday, June 2nd at 1829 Pacific Daylight Time. Linus Torvalds released kernel 3.5-RC1.
However, he made no release announcement that I can find. The only thing I could find about it
was someone else on the mailing list saying, hey, hey, yeah, there's our new kernel RC out there,
but no release announcement. So that's all I have. I don't have Linus is a little usually
usual quip about the about the release. So mainline is now 3.5-RC1. There were no stable
updates this week, as Great Girl Hartman's jaunt around Southeast Asia continues.
And our current developer quote of the week comes from Linus himself.
And it's from Linus because he really thinks that genome 3 sucks.
Who do I need to get standard font size and panel options instead of having to
wade through this kind of unsupported and random extensions that look ugly as hell and break
randomly crap? Maybe if I told people I was going blind and claimed that the font size was
an accessibility feature, people would care. Never mind that I want to make the font smaller.
That was a direct quote. Mr. Torvalds.
I have rather direct too. He's very unhappy with gnome 3, shall we say.
I can tell that, yeah. Does he ever said what he's running now instead of
gnome 3? Is it running? I don't know. It sounds like he's trying to run now.
I heard at the beginning when gnome 3 first came out, he went to XFCE at the
I don't know. I think I heard that too. He was given that a try. But for some reason,
he's doing something with gnome 3 right now and just can't make it work.
All right. All I have to say to Mr. Torvalds is cinnamon is a beautiful thing.
It is. But can you get cinnamon running on sushi?
Because that's his just show of choice right now, isn't it?
I think you can. All right. Don't look at me.
I am not going to run that experiment this week.
All right. So that's it for the kernel. Like I said, really like.
So yeah, it's kind of light, but that's all right.
Yeah, cool. The quote.
Yeah, it was an eye opener.
Yeah, it was.
You're any of your small children's ears.
We're listening to the kernel quote.
Although, now that I'm giving them warning, after the day,
they're going to say they're going to work out so well.
I should be put in before.
If we beep it, you can go back and look at the show notes. It'll all be there.
Yeah, we need to beep that.
All right. Thanks, Matt.
Yeah, you're welcome.
Tony, what's going on with the Linux distributions this week?
We have back on the 27th, we have Bridge Linux,
2012.5.
The desktop oriented distribution based on Arch Linux.
Yeah, that kind of that little logo. It's like a shuriken.
You know, uh, a shuriken.
Shuriken. Yeah, a shuriken shuriken.
Oh, basically, they both say they're the first
distro that will support you EIF out of the box.
So that's interesting.
Yeah. All right.
And we're moving along.
Moving along to, I can't even see this one.
Uh, I, uh, there's a website that allows you to pronounce,
or that will tell you how all the words in the world are pronounced.
And, uh, actually, this is, uh, it's, it's, uh,
Kaisha Magica.
All right.
There, it's a Portugal Linux distribution.
Yep. For just opt-in Portuguese.
Portuguese.
Portuguese. Yeah.
You know, something interesting about that was when they first, uh,
when they first came out, they were initially based off of, uh,
Susa. And then I think in 2007, um, during, you know,
the man Drake to Mandriva, kind of the heyday of Mandriva.
Uh, they switched and were based off, um, Mandriva.
And then I believe in 2011, they switched to Ubuntu as they're,
as a base from which that, uh, distro is derived.
What's with these distros happen bases?
I don't know. Ask Matt. Interesting.
And distro hopper.
The hopper.
I hope we're mad.
We should call you the hopper hopper.
The hopper.
Although I got to really say this, this freaking mint debit is really starting
to irritate me again with their lack of office.
I'm really getting a little irritated.
Are you running the stable?
Yes. I'm running a mint debyan and it's, it's just really,
there hasn't been an update for over a week now.
Come on. Something's got to be updated.
This is not right.
Shot girl in it.
You know, uh, I think, I think she'd try Fedora.
Because you know, Fedora 17 was just released.
Uh-huh.
That was on the, the 29th.
And I read two tutorials this week about how to get cinnamon running on Fedora.
Yeah.
But no.
You don't, they don't have the distro or the, uh, um,
what you call, you said, you guys didn't like the, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh.
Tell me about the beefy miracle.
No. Oh, oh, no.
Oh, the, yeah, the beefy miracle is a new, new release name.
No, but, um, whatever.
How, what's it called?
What'd you guys call it?
Um, um, um, dependency.
How?
RPM, how?
RPM, how?
Well, that doesn't, that doesn't, uh, it doesn't happen anymore.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm, yeah, I'm soft.
Yeah, and who, uh, one of our listeners?
Yeah, some of you have commented on that on that.
This week.
I sure will get that in me.
Listen to people.
It will be.
All right.
Continuing on on the 29th, we have G-R-M-L.
2012.
About five.
Fedora on purpose.
No, we just talked about it.
And we just said it.
Didn't she hear me say, oh, I thought, are you going to side it and realize that I thought it was looking to side it.
And it realized that was the actual.
Yes, for our 17 was released.
The beefy miracle.
Never mind.
Just move on.
All right.
Yeah, the GRML.
Hey, I've used that.
I'm happy with that.
No, I really have.
Oh, have you?
Yeah.
I didn't like it though.
You didn't know.
What did you like about it?
I just didn't like the way it worked.
I really liked Trinity Rescue Kit.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, it's one of those Debian Live CDs for administrators and test for users of
recovery and things like that.
My question is, what is a, what is users of text tools?
Or is it supposed to be test tools?
Is there, where is that?
Is that in there?
It's in, yeah, it's probably, no, I'm thinking they're talking about the
clean, the command line environment.
Oh, yeah, because that's what GRML only boots into a command line.
Oh, there you go.
Ooh.
But, but so does Trinity Rescue Kit TRK.
But they have this nifty menu.
It's just TRK.
Is it like a, does it look like a midnight commander kind of thing?
No, but they do have midnight commander available.
If you want to use a file manager, it's just command line.
It boots straight to command line.
There's no, there's no GUI.
Right, there's no GUI.
But there is, there is a menu and you can pick, you can pick to do things.
Just right from the menu.
Oh, okay.
So, very nice.
Yeah, I really like TRK.
Sweet, those guys do a nice job.
Going on, there's another Debian-based live DVD release,
which nopics 7.0.1.
They're like, they're the original live DVD.
They are.
Or CD and DVD.
So I,
Yeah, I remember getting, buying a book, like,
switching to Linux, and that was 2004, 2005,
and it had the nopics CD and with it and stuff.
That's cool.
Anyway, continuing on, we have another live CD.
Clonezilla live 1.2.12-60.
And we've talked about Clonezilla in the past that's a Debian-based live CD also.
It's for Discloning.
Yeah, it works great.
Yeah, it's awesome.
I've used, I started using that a couple weeks ago.
What I've used is when I've need to switch out a hard drive in a computer.
I'll clone the initial hard drive twin image.
Put the new hard drive in, then drop the image back on it,
re-expand it, bam, oh dumb.
Yeah, yeah, because say somebody's running on a free space,
and you don't want to just add another hard drive,
you can clone their 20 gig drive onto a 500 gig drive,
and then just expand the partition size to the full desk and up some there.
Yeah, I should look into this.
Yeah, it's cool.
I mean, just, just on general principle.
Yeah, it works really well.
You know what, actually, you know what you should do, Mary.
You would probably like this the best with all your,
your distro testing and stuff, that you could partition,
you could make an image of your,
you can make an image of your current laptop.
And then install the other distro, do your test,
and then take that image that you've had created,
and put it right back onto the laptop.
You could do back and forth.
What's wrong with that?
Well, you could do it, but it's not how I would do it,
I would do it the way Mary's doing it.
This partition, I have to clean up grub sometimes,
because sometimes you wouldn't have to clean up grub.
Yeah, but you wouldn't have to spend freaking an hour and a half reinstalling the image.
Yeah, it does take a long time.
Well, it depends on how much data you have on it.
It drives, too.
Yeah, it depends on how much data you have on it.
I don't even appreciate it.
The min, it takes me 15 minutes with the,
with that min install that I have on these hard drive, these laptops.
What do you think, I mean, I think it's just good for just back here.
Yeah, but you did the compression thing,
where you take all the free space out,
you don't image the free space, right?
Right, and that's just the default that Clonezilla does.
Yeah, because it comes out to like a two-gift file.
Have you ever used MClone?
I have not.
It's on TRK, it's part of TRK.
And what it is, is it's for, it's for like,
cloning a whole lab.
It's, it's, it's incredible.
Oh, and so it's like, what is like a server,
and then you run a bunch of...
Yeah, it's the same thing, and the,
on the, on the machine that you're going to run the image from,
you run MClone in, in M, with minus M,
and then it runs as a server, and it also has the Pixie Boot Server.
And then everything else, when they boot,
you tell it to Pixie Boot, and it finds your server.
Yes, do it on an isolated network,
you don't want it on your production network.
And then they all find yours and boot from it,
and then you run MClone there with a minus S option,
and it just, bam, you cloned the whole lab in one shot.
That's cool.
It's, it's a really nifty tool.
MClone.
That's nice.
TRK, those guys do a great job.
Don't know why I said they get.
All right, going on, there's another partition,
distro- parted magic,
2012- or underscore 05, underscore 3-0.
And parted magic is a live CD for primarily
disk management.
Right, disk management rescue tools.
Yeah, I'm sorry, Donnie.
Tony, I'm sorry.
It's all right.
Okay, we continue on on the first, the June first,
we have Vector Linux 7.0, the Soho edition.
Yes, Vector.
Another guy's, another bunch of guys that do a great job.
I used to run this years ago on some old hardware.
It was fantastic.
If you've got older hardware, Vector is the bomb.
Yes, Lackware based is good.
I got to check into that.
Of course, I put that on my list.
I think I have arch on my list.
And then I have Nixel-S.
Vector is really easy, Barry.
And like Archer Gen 2.
And Vector is a KDE distro, too.
Yeah.
Love that Minty KDE.
Wait a minute, just love that KDE.
All right.
And here's a distro that Matt had recent experience with
on the first Soho SOS 1.1.
That's S-O-L-U-S-O-S 1.1 was released on the first
Debian-based with Nome 2.
Is that what you said, your problem was with it?
Yeah, it is.
It's running Nome 2.
I mean, why would you run Nome 2?
If you want a Nome 2 type experience run,
I guess it's Matt.
Run so much?
I mean, hearing a lot of, I was calling it mate.
But I've been hearing a lot of podcasts lately about talking about it.
And they're all calling it Matay.
So I guess it's Matay.
So why would you run Nome 2, which is not supported?
Nobody's doing anything with it.
Or why not run Matay or Cinnamon?
I mean, come on.
I just, I think Ike's going down a dead end path with this Nome.
Although he says, I did hear an interview with him.
If you listen to the Disher Watch podcast,
this week's Disher Watch podcast, which came out yesterday on Saturday,
has an interview with Ike at the end of it.
And he talks about how they're putting a bunch of patches for Nome 3
to make it work like Nome 2.
And they ask him if he's going to submit the patches to the Nome 3.
People, he says, they're not going to take them.
Why would I submit them?
They intentionally crippled the panel,
which I'm using these patches to bring the panel back.
So I don't know.
Yeah, well, I mean, they might as perhaps an option.
I would see that as perhaps a possibility.
Well, the option was MGSE.
All right, not MGSE, but...
But there are Nome Shell extensions.
Nome Shell extensions.
Okay.
And MGSE refers to the Mint Nome Shell extensions,
which is what Mint tried to do at first.
And they realized that was a total dead end,
because the Shell extensions just aren't extensible enough
to do what you need to do.
Wow.
Yeah, anyway.
It's a tough deal.
Yeah, all these desktops are changing.
Progress, man.
Oh, man.
It's fun.
It's fun listening to you.
It's going to be LXDE for everyone, gosh darn it.
Actually, didn't they have a .4 release?
Or a 4.0 release or something?
Yeah, we still have you used LXDE?
They are.
Not since the new version.
They're beautiful.
Are you running LXDE right now?
No, I'm not.
I'm running cinnamon because cinnamon is also beautiful.
But if you're running older hardware,
and you don't want that 3D experience,
LXDE, I'm telling you, better than XFCE.
Later, wait an XFCE, because XFCE brings in half a normal.
Well, if you're running older hardware,
and you want the 3D experience, what do you do?
You don't get it.
You want an older hardware, right?
Yeah, I know.
I don't.
Just give me a chance.
You know what kills me, though, is the older hardware
used to work fine.
With 3D acceleration.
With 3D acceleration.
KD35.
We're with 3D acceleration and COMPAs.
And then all of a sudden, they say that the hardware is too old,
and they stop support for it, and it kills me.
I mean, it worked before why remove the support.
Because things move on.
That's why.
All right.
Because we're going to move on.
All right, going on to the top five,
according to DistroWatch, it's per day.
We got number five, Bridge Linux.
With 1310.
And it's trending up.
You know, I hadn't heard of Bridge before this week.
I didn't either, but they had a release, so that's why we had COMPAs.
And it was way down to number four, Ubuntu.
And trending down.
Yeah, they're at 1710.
Stop Tony.
I'd like you to stop for a moment, please,
because we're going to take a little trip back in the time machine for just a moment.
We're going to go back one week.
And magia coming to number two with 31, 94 and trending up.
But again, they also will not be there next week.
No, but I think there'll still be a little 10 next week.
Maybe.
Oh, yeah, I'm sure we're ready.
I'll bet you're back for us.
I'm Tony.
What's that number three this week?
Number three is magia.
They're still training up from last week with 2149.
2149 and trending up in IO Mary breakfast.
And I have my list.
I like the list of breakfast items.
Yeah, I got to tell you, though, I check that every day.
I'm like, all right, I'm still with that time.
All those little, all those little trained monkeys.
I didn't have to pay after all.
I knew I knew I was going to win that bet.
No, you did not.
That's why you checked every day.
No, I was pretty sure I would.
But after Tuesday, when it was still up there,
I thought, you know what, that's not going anyway.
All right, I tell you, I did the same thing.
And I was going, son of a bitch.
Where are you?
Yes.
And I didn't want to say anything.
I know.
Because I said it all week easy.
Yesterday, I put this thing together.
And I thought, yeah, I'm going to give you a hard time.
All right, keep going.
All right, number two is fedora.
With 34, 49.
And trending up.
And number one is mint at 37, 54.
And trending down, which is odd.
Because they just had that 13 release not too long ago.
But I think it's trending down.
Because they're screwing up with the Debian edition
and not giving me my updates.
Although I want to remind everybody,
we talked about this at the beginning,
but of our show, or when we started recording shows,
that this isn't necessarily a popularity contest,
or setting, or what's going on.
And it's not even based off of the actual distributions page hits.
It's based off of the page hits on the DistroWatch page
for the distribution.
Right, so you have to go to DistroWatch first
and then click on that Distributions page.
Which I did every day for a video.
So it's seven higher than what it would have been.
All right.
All right, well.
Now it's time for Mary's distro review.
And I have my distro review this week.
Yeah, what is it this week?
Well, you know, last week, Tony, while we were waiting for you,
I attempted to do the distro releases.
And the first one on the list was seduction.
And I forgot to say the version name.
And oh my god, I screwed it up a big time.
Or yeah, the version number.
So I screwed it up big time.
So I thought, you know, I'm going to go ahead
and take a look at this one.
Because it's not as well known as other ones.
So anyway, I call this review button button.
Who's got the button?
That does not boat well.
Seduction.
Come on, admit it.
The name of this distro is a cute play on words.
But since Q does not in the vocabulary of most guys I know,
clever will have to suffice.
So I decided to take a look at this cleverly named distro
after I messed up my mention of it
during the distro releases segment in episode 33.
One of the available versions on seduction site
includes the razor QT desktop.
It's a development release.
And since I had not really had a chance to check razor QT out,
I decided now was as good a time as any.
So I booted or I downloaded and burnt that QT desktop
to the DVD and booted it.
After running through the standard boot up scrolling text,
I was presented with a grub screen complete
with an oversized razor blade.
A real attention getter.
I selected start seduction 686 and was soon staring at a desktop
that was simple and clutter free.
Just a modern analog clock and a few icons,
including the requisite installer icon.
And that razor blade, although smaller and so after the site,
well time to explore.
The first thing I do in testing a new desktop is to change the mouse buttons
because I'm a lefty.
So preferences, razor QT settings,
razor mouse configurator seem like the place to find the mouse button settings.
Wrong.
The razor mouse configurator only allowed me to change the cursor color.
They should have named it razor cursor color configurator.
Of course, I pulled out my own cursor configurator and muttered a few.
Oddly enough, also under the razor QT settings was the power off button.
Apparently the developers wanted to make it convenient to shut off your computer
and discussed after discovering you can't change your mouse button.
Very thoughtful.
But wait, I saw the razor configuration center
could the mouse button option be there?
No.
And it was not found in the fully stock Debian application menu either.
So I went to the razor QT site and I actually did.
And to see if others had noticed it,
Susie user had.
The initial response from the forum admin was to use just.
Another suggested making changes to xorg.com.
This desktop needs a little polish.
So I closed the book on razor QT.
So in addition to the not ready for primetime razor QT,
you can download seduction with XFCE, LXDE, or KDE.
My plan was I actually wanted to check the gnome version,
but there was none to be had.
So I decided to download KDE or the KDE version.
Now the live version does not automatically install proprietary software such as
Nvidia drivers or my binary wireless for Intel, my Intel wireless.
So if your system does use that wireless chipset,
you're out of luck.
You'll have to deal with it.
But however, if you do have the option to install these kernel modules during the install process.
And speaking of the install process,
seduction fires up the well-known browser, Quapzilla,
on local host, Quapzilla, Quapzilla, Q-U-P-Z-I-L-L-A.
So it's obviously based on Mozilla.
It's Quapzilla.
I think, you know, again, I think they take out anything that's...
Oh, well, they took Firefox and stripped all the proprietary branding out of it.
Like Debian does with this diesel.
Yeah, I think that would happen.
So that's why I said that was why the well-known browser, Quapzilla,
on local host, port 8086, to walk you through the process.
I like that port number.
And those of you who've been around for a while will recognize 8086.
That is good.
Yeah.
Now on the partition page of the installer,
Q-Parted opened easily, unlike the live version on Razer Qt,
where it didn't open at all because I did try to install it in Razer Qt.
And I just couldn't make it happen.
I selected my partition and file system format and move forward.
Note to self.
Do not select ButterFS unless the distro appears ready to support it.
That file system error during booting was a drag to see.
Because I did select that just to see what would happen.
So it doesn't seem like it's ready.
ButterFS isn't...
They're still like, they're doing, they're not...
They haven't reached that full release yet, have they?
No.
They're still experimental, aren't they?
Yeah, we're right.
And that's why the note to self...
Unless it seems ready to support it.
And I didn't think it was, but again, I just thought,
you know, I'm going to give it a try and see what happens.
See how far I get?
Not very.
At the end of the install, there's an install log that appears
along with the reboot button.
I kind of like that install log,
because it shows you the major steps
and what occurred, transpired, that type of thing.
Can you write that out to the disk, too?
So you have an available effort?
That's a good question.
I don't know.
I was thinking, oh, you could maybe copy and paste,
but you'd have to...
Yeah, you...
There's no option to write it out to a file.
No, none that was visible to me.
But now you got me thinking.
All right, but anyway, so it's okay, I hit reboot.
Now, seduction 2012.1 release is called Desperado.
And true to form, as each phase of the boot concludes,
a bullet hole appears on the boot-up splash screen.
Of course, being from Detroit, I get identified.
Well, well, well, versed in bullet holes.
Not that close.
After the fifth bullet hole, the system transitions
to a KDE483 desktop.
Now, here's what I noticed.
And again, this is kind of a quick list here of what happens,
or what I noticed about the install in the programs.
There are two image scanning programs installed,
but no office suite.
Conquer browsers...
Please, leave room.
No, that I can see.
Nope.
And neither was a labor office or open office.
Conquer browsers installed, but not recunk or Firefox.
Now, I like Conquer browser, and I was kind of sad
when they moved away from it.
But Crusader, both true to non-root, is already installed,
as well as midnight commander and dolphin.
So there's no shortage of file managers in seduction.
The wireless kernel module did not install,
despite my preference and selection that it be installed.
Because when you are going through the install process
at the very end, or near the end,
you have the option of selecting, in my case,
it was real tech, and it was the Intel wireless.
Module to kernel module to install.
So I selected both of them, but it was not to be found.
I mean, I went and the LS mod, I did mod probe.
My Etsy modules, I put that module there,
hoping that I could get it to load.
Did you try an ins mod?
Oh, you know, maybe that was my problem.
Insert the module into the running kernel.
Yeah, that could be what I did.
Yeah, that's probably it.
I was running out of time.
All right, we'll keep on going.
But anyway, it, and that may be what my problem is,
or was.
And then in all application systems,
they have a kernel remover,
a utility which removes old kernels.
Yachtquake is already installed.
And then, of course, Nouveau, the open source
and video modules installed.
And K-disk-free, which shows usage
by partition is installed in the systems menu.
I kind of, I like that.
And then, of course, there's the full Debbie and Menu available.
There's also a Senni, which is an Ncurse's network interface configuration.
And it appears to be the primary networking tool,
which is a little surprising, but it does have a lot of options.
I mean, I thought they'd have something a little more
gooey looking because, you know, you're running 483,
then you kind of drop back down into this
Ncurse's like network configuration tool.
I'm not using the network manager.
I tried to, no, not that I could find.
Not that I could find.
Then I tried to install,
or actually, there's a menu option to install directly to USB.
And then the music player is called Dead Beef.
Probably killed by one of those bullets during the boot process.
I'm sure Fedora's latest release,
Beefy Miracle, doesn't have this music player,
but perhaps it's next release,
could, who knows.
So seduction.
Some may be seduced by this Linux distro,
but for me, not so much.
Seduction has not replaced chakra as my favorite,
but not default distro.
So that's my take on seduction.
Again, it's, you know, it's got some nice stuff in there,
but it just didn't really get me going.
All right, all right.
But that is mod that may be my problem.
Yeah, I and S mod insert module.
Hmm. Yeah.
Yeah.
Thank you, Matt.
You're welcome, Mary.
All right, we're going on.
Yes, what's going on in the convention scene this month, Mary?
Oh, yeah, the convention scene.
Well, we've actually, we've got a few,
we've got a few this month.
June 6 through the eighth.
We've got Linux kind of Japan.
At the Pacifico Yokohama in Yokohama, Japan.
Linux, Japan is a premier Linux conference in Asia
that brings together unique blend of core developers,
administrators, users, community managers,
and industry experts.
June 8 through the 10th, we've got Southeast Linux Fest
at the Blake Hotel in Charlotte,
excuse me, Charlotte, North Carolina.
Southeast Linux Fest is a community event
for anyone who wants to learn more about Linux
and free and open source software.
It's part educational conference
and part social gathering.
Yeah, yeah.
The next one on the list, June 19 through the 21st
is Solutions Linux Open Source.
It's at the scene in Paris, France.
Solutions Linux Open Source is the finest event
pertaining to the software industry.
It's the finest.
Everything in France is the finest.
The freshers are so full of themselves.
It's crazy.
This is crazy.
Anyway, but it's, but that's going on 19 through 21,
and finally, we've got June 26 through 29th.
We've got the open source bridge,
2012 at the Elliott Center in Portland, Oregon.
Open source bridge is a conference for developers working
with open source technologies
and for people interested in learning the open source way.
So the links to all those conventions
will be in the show notes.
And that's the June convention scene.
All right.
All right.
It's time for the tech news of the week.
All right.
In the news this week,
finally, a judge who gets it,
Oracle loses to Google.
Oracle's attack on Google goes down in flames.
Federal Judge William Alsup put the final nail
in Oracle's coffin with a ruling this week
that says you can't copyright an API.
Judge Alslup equated it to copywriting a set
of how-to instructions.
This is in part what he said in his ruling.
So long as the specific code used
to implement a method is different.
Anyone is free under the Copyright Act
to rate his or her own code
to carry out exactly the same function
or specification of any methods used in the Java API.
Less than a month ago,
a European court made a similar ruling.
In that case, the court found that programming APIs
couldn't be copyrighted
as that would have in effect monopolized ideas.
Oracle is going to appeal
as they spent tens of millions on this suit already
and Larry Allison is like a dog with a bone.
If he is not careful though,
he'll be like that dog from E-Subs Fable
that winds up losing all the bones
because he is greedy.
Right now, Oracle's compensation
will be limited to statutory damages
for the nine lines of code
that were found to be infringing.
That means that their maximum damages
would be around $150,000 and maybe much less.
If Oracle wants to win on appeal,
they will not only have to get Judge
Allison's ruling overturned
but also win a completely new trial.
That may prove difficult as in an interview
after the trial,
the foreman said that Oracle was never
even close to proving their case.
He also said that the only reason
that the jury found Google guilty of any infringement
was because the judge's instructions
made it seem like they had to.
In his ruling, Judge Allison had this to say
about the one copied function called range check.
This was an innocent and inconsequential instance
of copying in the context of a massive number of lines of code.
So it doesn't even sound like he's going to
award them even close to $150,000.
So Larry, I would not pin any hopes on getting you.
Starbucks cards.
Yes, Starbucks card.
25 bucks.
Right.
So Larry, I would not pin any hopes
on getting even close to the $150,000
possible on this one.
It couldn't have happened to a nicer guy.
Also on a side note,
my favorite title of any article
on this topic that I saw this week
came from internetnews.com.
Their title was Oracle loses
all your APIs are belong to us.
So yeah.
Oh, I can't believe we finally got a judge that gets it.
Yeah.
Did you say he was a programmer?
Yes, he is programmed in the past.
That's why he gets it.
Moving on.
Microsoft finds first extortion victim for UEFI.
Fedora has become the first distribution
to cave into Microsoft.
Fedora 18 will include a digital key
that will allow it to boot up
on UEFI enabled hardware.
Granted, the keys are not very expensive
being $99 per key.
But this is an ongoing expenses.
Every time you have a new release,
you need a new key.
If your distribution has
that has a release every six months,
then you will need a new key every six months.
What about rolling releases,
like open system wheat
or Linux Mint Debian Edition?
Will these distributions only need one key ever
or will they tie it to say the kernel version?
The Fedora project faced a couple of solutions
to this problem,
just like every other distribution out there.
They chose to accept the extortion demands.
Their other options were to produce their own key
or ignore the digital key entirely.
These present their own problems.
Producing your own key means getting
every hardware vendor to accept your key
or face the fact that there will be large amounts of hardware
that your key does not work with.
See, and I don't know if you just mentioned this
because I wasn't paying attention.
Get ready for this other thing.
That Linux standard base,
do you remember a few years ago
there was that kind of push
to have kind of a common,
commonality and kind of a common base system?
Right.
It just seems to me that in light of this,
that that whole Linux standard base,
that should be pushed out as sort of the
baseline.
And then it would seem to me
that all the major hardware vendors
would get on board with that
because it is common
and they're not going to have to
to address 50 different distros.
Although, I don't know how that would work
because I don't know the details.
I'm not a details person.
Every distro couldn't.
They just couldn't use it.
It just wouldn't work that way.
All right.
But where does this key go?
I mean, is it the bootloader that needs a key
or is it the bootloader?
The bootloader.
And I get the, I describe that a little bit later on.
Okay, continuing.
Yeah, yeah.
If it might, if my description doesn't
answer your questions, then we can talk about it.
Okay.
These present their own problems,
producing your own key.
Oh, I already said that.
Large amounts of hardware, not work with, yep.
And in its current state, ignoring the key
means having to fiddle with the computer's firmware
to get it to boot.
This is unacceptable as it creates
a large barrier to non-techies.
It's like Matthew Garrett says,
the cause of free software isn't
furthered by making it difficult
or impossible for unskilled users to run Linux.
Having the key allows the machine to ensure
that the binary version of the distribution
is the same as the one sent to the key signer.
The Fedora engineers are going to develop a separate bootloader
to provide the key to UEFI system
and then hand control back over to the regular bootloader.
There are problems with even this method
as some of the kernel functionality
will need to be locked down.
Then kernel modules would also need to be signed.
What if you're compiling your own kernel?
How are you going to get it signed?
Those are the facts as they currently exist.
Stay tuned for the Matt's opinion segment
where I will be expounding upon my thoughts on this.
What the Fedora engineers are going to do
is they're calling it a shim
and it's going to present the binary image
along with the key to the hardware
which is then going to compare it
to what was submitted to Microsoft when they got the key.
They were going to say, okay, it matches the binary image
and the key, match this key and this binary image, boom, good done.
And then after that process,
then they're going to hand it back over to say grub
to continue the boot process.
Does that help?
Does that answer your question?
Yeah.
Well, then we don't have to have a unified Linux.
We need a unified shim that all Linux can use.
Well, no, because it's going to have to be,
everybody's not going to be able to use Fedora's binary image.
And so a laptop like this one?
Because that's another thing Fedora looked into.
The Fedora project also looked into getting a key
for every Linux distribution.
But that would cost millions of dollars.
So they didn't do that.
Indiegogo project.
So yeah, that's the public fundraising site.
Yeah, because also some of the kernel,
some of the kernel functionality is going to be locked down
to that original binary.
Or you'll have problems after boots.
Well, what about that?
That's not good.
There needs to be a, there needs to be a,
anyway, we're getting kind of getting into my rant later.
Yeah.
All right.
Yeah, I'll save my question about my laptop till then.
Okay. All right.
Next up, we love Linux as Microsoft Azure team.
Fingers crossed behind their bed.
Yeah.
Does anybody else remember Steve Bummer referring to Linux
as a cancer?
I do.
Well, not anymore as the Azure team makes the necessary changes
in order to embrace Linux.
They're doing this in order to try and gain
some market share away from the likes of Amazon and Rackspace.
Currently, you cannot run a persistent instance of Linux on Azure,
which means that when it goes down,
yes, I said, when, not if you lose all of your data, okay?
Not only if it goes down unexpectedly,
but even during a planned reboot,
your data is gone, okay?
This is a completely unacceptable situation for any business.
Well, in the next release of Azure,
you'll be able to run persistent instances of Linux.
I personally don't understand why anyone would want to run an instance of Linux
on top of Azure.
I'd be like trying to run a Ferrari with a VW engine.
Just nuts.
And last but not least,
overall server revenue down 2.4% worldwide,
Linux server revenue up 16%.
The international data corporation IDC have put out their 2012 Q1 report.
Last year, Linux server revenue was about 2.07 billion in the first quarter,
and this year it was 2.4 billion.
In the same time frame, Windows server revenue grew by 1.3% from 5.8 billion to 5.9 billion.
This leaves Windows with 50.2% of the market and Linux with 20.7%.
Now, let's look at what that growth means.
Unlike back in episode 21 on March 4th,
when I figured out that at the current rate of growth,
Linux would overtake Windows on the desktop in 59 years,
this time it's much closer.
At the current standing with Linux server revenue at 2.4 billion and Windows server revenue
at 5.9 billion, the current rate of growth for each respectively is 16% and 1.3%.
With these figures, we can estimate that Linux server revenue will overtake Windows server revenue
in seven years.
Now, seven is a lot closer than 59.
If current trends stay the way they are or reasonably close to what they are,
we can realistically see Linux revenue overtake Windows revenue
in the server market in the next 10 years.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, I think after I had seen that you were going to read that story
or that news item that you had prepared,
I saw this and I thought, oh, I'll send this off to you because it really,
it does show, but you take a look at the growth and how Unix really was predominant
and then now Linux is predominant.
And at the very top, Windows server kind of widen a little bit.
You see, it's just not, it's just not caring forward.
But again, it will make more sense to have that.
Well, when you look at revenues, they own 50% of the market.
Of course they do.
In revenue.
Yeah, but it's because you can't run it without running, without paying for it.
Yeah, true.
Yeah, that's the only reason why you're captive.
All right, enough of that.
Okay, continuing on.
I have one news article that I found last night.
Facebook unveils Folly.
They unveil Folly?
Yeah, Folly.
Folly is their treasure trove of open source C++ gold.
Oh, I thought it was some mistake that the Folly of their IPO.
Yeah, well, it's a collection of usable C++ libraries
and it was developed in-house at Facebook to meet their needs of Facebook engineers.
That's from the Venture Beat website.
But then they go on to say other open source projects that they've released.
Like Cassandra, Hip Hop, and Thrift.
So, interesting stuff.
Great.
Cool.
Let's see, I've got a couple of things.
I was looking at this vlog and again, the link to it will be in the show notes.
And it's a developer's blog and the announcement was that Ubuntu.
Apparently, there's a right-click menu item available for Dolphin
that will enable you to sync with Ubuntu 1.
So, if you've got an Ubuntu 1 account and you're using it,
you'll be able to almost do an instant sync with a particular file by simply right-clicking on it.
That was something I saw.
Now, I got that installed and I'm going to have to work out some details
as far as some Ruby library or something on my system.
But I think that made me just specific to me.
The other thing I wanted to mention this morning is that
there was another, I kind of got off on a right-click menu frenzy this week.
And this is for KDE folks.
There is, and again, the link to this will be in the show notes.
But there is a really slick right-click menu available
that gives you a multitude.
I mean, all you have to do is just place it into the correct folder
in your . file, in your home directory.
And it gives you the ability to shut up some Samba configurations.
It gives you the ability to, and I'm kind of reading this from,
since I didn't have it open, I'm so sorry.
It gives you a bunch of capabilities.
Again, all of the right-click, although for me, it's a left-click,
since I'm left-handed.
But yeah, I wanted to just quickly mention that.
So the link to that will be in the show notes.
I installed that, and again, it was nice.
SSH, you can instantly get something set up with that.
You can send a file to email.
You can do a whole bunch of different things.
And it's an RPM that you download from the KDE app site.
So you need to use Alien to convert and or to install it.
So I just wanted to say that.
All right, cool.
Yeah, Alien's the, to be able to use RPMs and Debian systems.
Yeah, I haven't used it for a long time,
because the Ubuntu repository is so rich.
Yeah, and yeah, I've, the only time I've ever used Alien
was when I was trying to install a custom piece of software
that was only available with an RPM.
If it's a common piece of open source software,
it's always in the repositories.
You know, I found an app for my tablet for LPI.
It gives you 10 random questions that are like what you would see on the LPI
quest or thing.
Does LPI question so Tommy?
I think I saw something this week too about it,
where I actually took a LPI test practicing on the internet.
I only got like 30%.
Yeah, all right.
Yeah, you know, a couple things that I saw this week.
Office on iPads, Android tablets offers good and bad news for Microsoft.
I have a question.
If they're going to have office so that it'll run on Android,
will it also, how, how hard is it then to make it run natively on Linux
if it's going to run on Android?
Probably not that hard for.
I'm sure it's a mobile version of office, isn't it?
Or is it a four version of office?
Yeah, because mobile, they strip out a whole bunch of stuff.
But still, it'd still be office.
But it wouldn't, it would make it compatible with mobile office.
You can still open, read, net it files that were created on a desktop office.
Yeah, yeah.
All right.
Well, you know, because Microsoft, they have to,
you take a look at how the mobile market is just exploding and they're not,
they're not a big player in their add-all.
So in order for them to make offices where they're really making their money now,
as opposed to...
Yeah, corporations.
They just, that's some of the de facto standard.
I know my company uses it.
Everybody uses it.
Yeah, yeah.
So, so yeah, putting it out there on the iPad, putting it out there on Android is,
well, well, seeing that just goes to show you Microsoft,
the Microsoft Way was not a good way.
Where they're trying to not, you know, lock out everything else.
I mean, Apple can get away with it because they have cool stuff.
Well, no, and not only that, but it's just, it's the paradigm shift.
It's, and I think, I think of it something by Eric Raymond about it not too long ago,
where he says, you know, back in the day, it was these guys, you know, it was IBM,
Novel, and then now it's been Microsoft, and now it's time for somebody else.
It's just the way the industry works.
It's time for a paradigm shift, so.
Yep, it is.
It is, so, and that's good to see.
Other thing I thought was kind of interesting is in Microsoft's new Yula,
that they're going to be rolling out for, I think, Windows 8,
is that it prevents class action suit.
I don't think that's legal.
I don't think you can, yeah, I don't think you can prevent a class action lawsuit
with a Yula.
I just don't think you, I don't think that's legal.
I don't think you can do that.
Yeah, you can't sue us because you said you wouldn't.
Right, exactly.
I don't think that's viable.
Well, yeah, it'll be interesting to see the first test of it to see how,
you know, whether it will be upheld.
But because otherwise, what are the other options?
Small suits, small claims, core arbitration, give me a break.
And, you know, I mean, if your product said good, then you wouldn't have to worry about it.
So, yeah, but those two things.
You're going to be started early on my rant, man.
Okay, sorry.
No, but those two things kind of caught my eye.
The other thing I noted too is open source initiatives in Spain,
the regional government, of course, Spain, you know, I think, between Spain and Greece.
Well, there's several European countries that have got some tremendous debt problems.
So, the regional government of Spain's vast country has decreed that all software
produced for vast government agencies and public bodies will be open source.
This was in, I think, HOnline.com news this past week.
I saw that and I thought, you know, it makes perfect sense because
the, I think, the total cost of ownership despite what Microsoft has said in previous papers
is going to be lower.
Have to pay.
Yeah, exactly.
So, that's one way for Spain to get out of their little debt problem.
Well, not to get out of it, but perhaps the less than it is lately.
Yeah, it's, you know, don't get me started on the European problems.
And everybody's looking to Germany to save the European Union.
It's just crap.
So.
Well, there, I mean, yeah, not to get off target, but the year I've
Greece maybe just dropping out of the Eurozone.
Yeah, I don't know.
If I were Germany, I'd kick them to the curve and say good riddance.
But I guess Germany is part of the league that doesn't want Greece to wind up
getting out of the European Union to stop using the Euro.
So, I don't know.
I don't know.
Okay, so anyway, anyway, it's not, it's not open source or Linux related.
Now it's time for Mary's quiz show.
Is it alive?
That's a little over anxious, uh,
mouse action there.
That's right.
It's isn't alive.
During this segment of the show,
Mary challenges Matt and Tony to identify whether a Linux distro is alive or dead.
This week's segment takes a slightly different tack
when Mary challenges Tony and Matt to decide whether the name entity is a
Linux distribution or a bar drink.
What if it's both?
All right.
What if it's both?
Well, and you get double credit at a double shot.
All right.
That is a bar, it was a bar drink.
All right, the first one on our list today.
German hands off the keyboards, please.
All right.
First one is Sabra.
It's a Linux distro with a Linux distro too.
Sabra is a chocolate orange flavored liqueur,
produced in, produced in Israel.
This does not vote well for you.
Wait a minute.
So it's a drink.
All right.
Well, we're off to a good start.
Liquid lemur.
I'm going to go with the Linux distribution.
I'm going with the drink.
It is a Linux distribution.
Liquid lemur provides usable but minimal as possible set of pre-installed
applications and packages.
It's based on Debbie and testing Weezy Branch.
However, due to complications and packages that often broke,
they moved to an arch-based distro.
All right.
So you guys keep track of what you got here.
Let's see.
So you guys are both wrong.
The first one.
That's right.
Nothing I want.
That's the second one.
That's right.
And then Matt got it right.
And Tony, unfortunately, did not.
We're onto the next one.
Black Panther.
That is a drink.
Yeah, I'm going to go with the drink also.
Doesn't that sound like a Linux distro?
The Black Panther OS development started in 2002.
The latest stable version, 10.1 became available January, 2010.
It was among, at the time, it was among the top five
popular Linux distributions in January at distrowatch.com.
So would you both get it wrong?
Yes, I think that's also a drink.
I'm going to look that up after that.
All right. It might be.
Then you'll get credit for it.
All right.
Tiger paw.
Drink.
How do I get a Linux distro?
It's a drink.
Oh, Matt.
Matt's twirling around here in his chair.
A delicious alcoholic drink recipe for tiger paw
with citrus vodka, lemon juice, sugar, ice, orange soda.
All right.
Pacifica.
I'm going to go with Linux distribution.
I'm going to bomb out this week.
I'm sure.
But I'm going to go with the drink.
It's a drink.
It's, uh, it's, oh, I was going to have a bourbon,
one teaspoon of vermouth red, and one and a half ounces of pineapple juice.
Mixing instructions.
Stir in a sugar with glass and, uh, with ice and, uh, pour into a glass or
strain into a glass.
All right.
Vipper.
Vipper or Viper?
Viper.
Two peas are one.
There's two ours.
Maybe it's, uh, zipper, uh, and Viper.
And Viper's zipper is, it's called Vipper.
V-I-P-E-R-R.
V-I-P-E-R-R.
Is it a drink or a Linux distribution?
I'm going to go with Linux distribution.
Uh, I'll go with Linux also.
You're right.
It's a fedora remix that aims to merge crunch bang
qualities with the fedora based benefits.
And that's it this week.
So, uh, let's see, what do we got here?
Who won?
Tony, you were keeping it right.
Matt?
Yeah, what was it?
We're giving it three to two.
Three to two.
Three to two.
All right.
Join us next week when Mary challenges Matt and Tony
to another edition of Is It Alive.
Hi, Ray.
It's listener feedback time.
I think it's nice that we have consistent listener feedback
because the first few episodes I remember, nothing.
It shows us that people are listening.
Thank you, everybody.
Thank you.
So, it's our first one, Tony.
Well, the first one was, was Kevin O'Brien.
He sent us a message, uh, or on the website.
He commented and he says, uh, how the licensing and things like that.
He doesn't like the way I, he doesn't like my rant from last week about how I,
he says I was unfair to the GPLV3.
Well, I'm sorry.
That's my feelings, Kevin.
And, and I know I didn't address it point by point,
but I didn't want to do that on the show because it would take too long.
But if you do look at it and there's several websites out there that do it
and Groklaw has the best one as far as I'm concerned,
where it shows the two licenses right next to each other.
And GPL3 is not GPLV2.
It's not even close and it sucks.
You're heart rate.
Tell us how you really feel.
And then, uh, have a date, Kevin.
Yeah.
Pogel also emailed us, said he really likes the, is it a live section?
So, thank you to Mary and, uh, he got a better score than I did.
He has, he beat Tony last week.
Three out of five, where is there six?
Yeah, I think Mary does six, you do six, right?
Five.
Five, five.
I tried to do five.
I think it was five.
I had to take one.
Was there six this week?
Yeah.
I think we should take away the one where we both got it right.
I thought you said it was three.
Yeah, because then I would have that I would have three to two.
That's fine.
Because then I would have two to one.
I don't know.
That's fine.
As long as it's gonna blow out, then I'm okay with that.
Anyway, no, I think we need to take the one question out where I got it
wrong and Tony got it right.
That's the one we need to take out.
That'll be three to one.
Right.
And then we'll be tied again with points.
Well, we're going to be going to the playoffs.
So, after that, some kind of playoff scheme.
It's speaking of playoff.
Didn't we have a little discussion last week about the scoring?
Oh, yeah.
NHL scoring.
I was confused and it was wrong.
I was.
The NHL points doesn't refer to goals.
It refers to this other wacky point system they use.
That's right.
Two for a victory.
And you get one point for an overtime loss loss.
All right.
Cool.
So, do we have more listener feedback?
We do.
We have Tom and Israel.
He says that Matt and I were condescending to Mary.
No, I think he said Matt was.
Yeah, he actually said he agreed with.
He said actually that we were condescending to you.
But he then he had problems with my.
Uh, he had problems with my rant also last week about how.
Al Gore?
Yeah, about my Al Gore reference.
Well, because Al yeah, because Al Gore, he took the initiative and that was just
in creating the financial.
Okay.
And I said this in my reply to him and I said it last week on the air also.
I understand that he misspoke.
However, it is exactly what he said.
Regardless of how anybody else wants to spin it.
He said I created the internet.
I took the initiative.
No, his exact quote was from his interview.
Let's see.
I think Mary read it on air.
And I also have a link to the you could actually see the actual video if you would like.
That's Matt thinking.
This is my thinking noise.
I think it was.
It's hamsters running around in my hand.
Talking to the voices.
Okay, was he said in an interview with Wolf Blitzer on CNN late edition on March 1999,
which you can see at a link that I will provide to Tony to put in the show notes.
Okay, and in his quote, this is a direct quote from him from that episode during my service
in the United States Congress.
I took the initiative in creating the internet.
Oh, you know, um, the other listen to feedback.
You know, do you guys ever read the comment section for our episodes?
I do sometimes not often.
Okay, because you know, there was a chatter had.
Oh, chatter didn't come in it on hybrid.
Yes.
And then I didn't realize it.
But about six days later, I responded.
So I don't know if that's really listening to feedback or if that's.
It is.
We need to make it.
We need to make them more conscious effort to check that.
Well, all right.
Yeah, we have more feedback too from David Ellis.
I read that he said several weeks ago.
We were kind of beaten up on the door because it uses RPMs,
which I think I was.
He says he thinks it was me too.
And, uh, and I said that, but since Yom,
it's not really a problem.
And he really appreciates the fact that we said that since,
since Yom, it's not really an issue.
So, but another thing David Ellis, he also, he runs
on a semi public Minecraft server at.
The lost forest dot org.
So if any of you guys out there in the Minecraft,
maybe give the lost forest dot org a try.
Is that.
No, all one word, the lost forest dot org.
We're not recommending it.
But no, I don't play Minecraft.
I've never been to the site.
It's a little note.
Just check it out if you want.
And on to the soapbox.
All right.
Matt's soapbox warning.
This article may contain opinions of mind that you and Sunday
morning Linux review don't necessarily agree with.
Don't let me get away with it.
Have you saved with some listener feedback?
Respond to show at smlr.us.
uefi Microsoft's new extortion scheme unified extensible
firmware interface commonly referred to as uefi
is not a bad thing by itself.
In fact, it can be a really good thing if it's implemented
in a sane and reasonable manner.
However, Microsoft is trying to strong arm hardware
manufacturers into implementing it in a way that hurts everyone
except Microsoft.
Just because they create a no-ass with more holes in it
than Swiss cheese, they're trying to force everyone
onto this BS.
uefi should be implemented because companies like
Microsoft make crap and most computer users
are unable to keep themselves from clicking on everything
that pops up in front of them.
The hardware manufacturers just need to implement an easy
on-off switch for requiring signature keys
regardless of what Microsoft demands.
The solution of having to buy a key for Microsoft
is just total BS.
This makes them the de facto king of computer land
as everyone else must submit their request
to be able to just boot up to them.
What if Microsoft decides that you're too much competition
and does not sell you a key?
What recourse do you have then?
How about if Microsoft decides that you should not have
given you a key to begin with?
Can they just invalidate the key?
They sold you?
Well, I'll tell you what?
I will run 20-year-old hardware before I ever run
on a Linux distro that uses an F&K
they bought from Microsoft.
That's my opinion.
20-year-old hardware.
Yeah, if I have to just keep using the same hardware
for 20 years, I'll do it before I run anything
that uses a key they bought from Microsoft.
That would be analogous to running an 8086 process today.
Yes, that is my stand.
I'm going to all continue to run this hardware
until it's crumbles to dust.
Or buy a nice reason
because I'm sure they won't be putting those in there.
It depends.
Are they going to be able to buy hardware that doesn't use?
I mean, all the hardware is good.
Eventually, you use UEFI because it's replacing BIOS.
Okay.
Well, yeah, but UEFI and Microsoft just
acts on turn-on one option.
So, like Zah Reason and System76,
they actually do work with the manufacturers
and they can turn that off for their assistance.
Well, maybe I'll have to go with Zah Reason
then instead of just going to the Repslet regularly.
You will regret it.
Anyway, that's my opinion.
What do you think?
I don't think you'll have anyone disagreeing with you, Matt.
I don't think so.
I think this week it's pretty rock solid.
The only thing I disagreed with was that there are
there is some Swiss cheese.
It's not very holy.
Am I not very holy?
She does not mean made by monks.
Yeah.
Featured, Music of the Week.
Well, I guess we're coming to the end of our show this week.
I've got a little bit of music.
This week is Crazy Train by Dickie F.
Take a listen.
All right, so you've been listening to the sunny morning,
morning Linux review episode 34, the Suci and Venus.
The Suci anniversary coinciding with the transitive venus.
That's right, episode yet.
This is Tony Venus.
Matt Enders.
And Mary Tommage.
Have a good week.
See you next week.
All right.
No, we got all the way up through solace.
Wow.
We were talking to the top five.
You took a serious nap.
Talk about a brain cramp.
Oh my god.
Wait, wait, say that first one again,
because I swear that's Linux distro.
All right, and maybe both.
Okay, the first one is called Sabra.
Sabra.
And the other one was Black Panther, right?
Black Panther.
Matt's soapbox warning.
This article may contain opinions of mine
that you and Sunday morning Linux review don't necessarily agree with.
Don't let me get away with it.
Have your say with some listener feedback at respond.
No, it's respond to show at smr.us.
Yeah, give me that same part every week and I give
something they can't respond to.
I like that.
No, I can actually create that for it.
If you want to respond to it, I'm going to do that again.
Three.
Darn it.
One.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
Hacker Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network that release the shows every week day on
day through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital.pound
and the economical and computer cloud.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution
at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under
a creative comments,
attribution, share a line,
lead us our license.
