Episode: 1509
Title: HPR1509: HPR Needs Shows
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1509/hpr1509.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 04:27:56

---

You
Hi everybody, this is Ken from Hackupublic Radio with a very short show to tell you that
we need shows.
Hackupublic Radio is a community podcast network.
Let's just focus on that.
That means the people who are listening are supposed to be the people who send in shows.
Now, of the 8,000 people that are going to listen to this show, only 200 of you have
sent in shows up until now.
It is now time for you, yes you, who has not turned into a show to send us into show.
How I got into Linux, what are the podcasts you'll listen to?
Favorite tech tip, what's in your bag?
You know, and if you're not happy with any of those, there's a complete list on hackupublic
radio.org forward slash contribute.php.
We need shows.
We're running out.
In two more days, we will be running emergency shows.
So please folks, send in shows to Hackupublic Radio.
Also, spread the word on Facebook, on Twitter, on identical or wherever else.
This is not free.
This is not a free service.
You are expected to contribute.
So please contribute a show.
Do it today or you won't be able to listen to another exhibition episode tomorrow on
Hackupublic Radio.
You have been listening to Hackupublic Radio or Hackupublic Radio does our, we are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday on day through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
Have you ever considered recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hackup Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer
club.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons, attribution,
share a life, lead us our lives.
