Episode: 1682
Title: HPR1682: Introduction to the Netizen Empowerment Federation
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1682/hpr1682.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 07:37:48

---

This is HPR episode 1682 entitled Introduction to the Netizen Empowerment Federation.
It is hosted by First Time HostDong and is about 10 minutes long.
The summary is Introduction to Netizen Empowerment Federation.
It is short, so let me know if you'd like detail.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
This is my first HPR release and I'm going to keep it short.
If anyone is interested in hearing more about any of the projects I mentioned here,
I'm happy to do that in another show.
First, I just want to say that everything in the Netizen Empowerment Federation
is released under a free culture license,
though not all of the music selected by a presenter is free culture.
Right now we are blogging podcast focused,
but we would like to add digital creators of all types.
Photographers, musicians, whatever.
You can join as long as you are releasing under a free culture license.
So the first one that I'm going to talk about is OpenSourcePlayground.org.
I'm doing these sites in the order they were created.
Now I'm not actually sure if it was OSP as we call OpenSourcePlayground.org
or Sportizen that was created first.
Since OSP is the most closely related to HPR in that it's about tech,
I'm going to start with that.
OSP started as a shared hosting gift for new developers, a gift from me.
The idea was that I could make the people accounts a dream host
and they could test the latest free software.
Since it wasn't a business, I didn't really promote it.
It never took off.
I had a few people in Wisconsin make accounts, but they barely used them.
It's not really important why the idea failed,
but eventually it just became a place for me to talk about tech.
Also, LNXW48AK Linux Walt is our current systems administrator.
Some of you will probably know him.
And he occasionally writes pieces for the sites.
And like all of the sites that I'm mentioning,
we're looking for contributors in one way or another.
So if you want to talk about tech and don't have a home,
feel free to join us.
So Sportizen.com is as far as I'm aware,
the only site dedicated to sports and free culture.
Being dedicated to free culture and sports means a lot of things.
First, it means making sure that online sports viewing works in free formats.
So if it doesn't, you know, if it requires flash or something,
trying to put pressure on those companies to sport a good HTML and things of that nature,
it also means that there are that we support having free software,
fantasy sports implementations,
and also that sports journalism happens under free culture licenses.
So there's a lot that we can do to help promote that.
So, Sportizen is sort of a weird beast because we're partnered with JMP Enterprises.
I'm not really going to go into that just because,
you know, then, like I said, I'm trying to keep this short.
And if people want to know more about Sportizen,
I am more than happy to do another episode in the future.
So, musicmanagement.com is actually a collection of shows about remixable music.
The main show features me and Tom of the band, Lorenzo's Music.
You can find Lorenzo's Music on Jimindo Soundcloud Spotify,
the Free Music Archive, and a bunch of other places they release under a CC BYSA license.
And we usually interview bands.
It's not always bands, but, well, musicians, not.
Obviously, sometimes there's solo artists, but we're usually interviewing musicians.
Sometimes it's people that are involved in the music scene and one way or another,
but usually musicians.
So, I also do or did in the past, I'm on hiatus, this thing called the lawcast.
And I'm going to bring it back eventually, but I'm going to bring it back as a catch-all
for more academic and policy stuff that we don't really do on the main show,
mostly because Tom doesn't want to do it, but also just because there's only but so much time
in the main show. Tom and I don't have a lot of time where things overlap or we're available.
So, I'll probably talk a lot more about free software on the reboot.
It's not a time that Tom, not a topic that Tom particularly cares about.
He's a gonna Linux user like myself, but for the show interviews, he refuses to use anything
other than Skype or Hangout for recording the shows.
So, I'll probably have on musicians on the new reboot of the lawcast,
that when otherwise have on the main show.
And then, obviously, we can talk about, you know, why are you on this show instead of the
next show, so that leads us right into free culture.
So, another thing that we used to do that's on hiatus as a podcast on music, maybe it's
pretty much what it says it is. Again, I want to bring that back.
I have to find some funding, though, because I'm going to get kicked out of the house if I don't find
some funding. Basically, it's what it amounts to. So, you know, hopefully that's no longer the case,
but it's time you hear that, but I'm recording it on December 19th.
So, CyberUnions.org is the first one that I don't have direct involvement with.
I've been on the show once, but aside from that, I don't have any involvement.
So, I actually think the site CyberUnions.org may have started before any of these that I've
talked about, but I'm putting it at this point in the show because the CyberUnions podcast started
after music management. So, and their podcast is currently on hiatus. So, Steven, one of the
presenters there is now worked for the FSF. So, you know, the free software is important to him.
No, I'm not going to say a lot about what they do. It's about unions and it's about taking those
unions. And, but like I said, I'm not involved. So, if people want to hear more about CyberUnions
on HPR, they should pester Steven. He is either Marxist-Vegan or MV, which is short for Marxist-Vegan,
on, you know, all the social networks that people are probably on, the pumps, the new socials,
etc. So, right now, the bearded.com is the next Kniff member. R.T.B really refers to two music
shows, one called the O.O. Show and another called Unformatted. The site also has a stream that
carries a variety of shows, including cerebral mix, raise and frustration, and this last Kniff show
that I'm going to discuss. So, amateur Zen is another music show, just like music anime, and
run of the bearded.com. And, unlike Rhino, you can find Alex, the DJ for this show on
the new social. He is lrockhq at loadaverage.org, and it's just another creative comments
music show. He is starting to become more interested in free culture, and you see a ton of
dash-and-c and dash-and-d stuff on Rhino's show, but Alex is really trying to keep it free culture,
but every once in a while he plays stuff that is not free culture. So, I guess at the beginning,
I am, you know, happy to do other shows where I talk about any of these. Some of the other
participants could obviously do shows. Just, please let me know. I'm DA, W, Ron,
Fractive, if you want me to know more. Thank you.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.org. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show,
like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of
recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode
on this otherwise stated. Today's show is released on the Creative Commons
Attribution ShareLife 3.0 License
