Episode: 1371
Title: HPR1371: The Lost Banner of HPR
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1371/hpr1371.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 00:24:16

---

We're just talking about the HPR conference kit stuff.
And I guess what we should do to add to it or prep to it or replace to it in the past.
I am responsible for losing the the old banner.
So I guess what happened really this year is I took the whole kit and everything out to the Northeast Linux Fest.
And then when I shipped everything back to Dave David Whitman, I don't know how I got it wrong, but I had to ship them separately because everything
except for the banner and it's very heavy frame fit in a large US Postal Service flat rate box.
So I shipped that to Dave and then I had to get to like a UPS store, which took me a couple of weeks to get there when they were still open near my house.
And I shipped the banner separately because it was it was so heavy I couldn't afford to send in the mail.
I had to send it UPS and however I did it, I had the wrong address.
You were old houses that what it was.
Yeah, that's correct. I had moved in the first time in 10 years or so that I had moved in.
So you had my old address.
I think I provided my new address, but of course my old address was out there.
So that took priority somehow.
And I never I tried to contact the people there, did everything except show up down there.
You know, I sent a letter and that but never heard any response.
So essentially, I don't know what happened to it, but it did say I did get a reply from the shipper that it did had been delivered there.
So they were basically since no signatures required the banner is gone.
But I think the important thing here is that this leaves us a new opportunity to talk about the banner.
What we want to do for getting something else or if we even need that.
And then go forward from there.
So rather than it being a problem, it's an opportunity.
Yeah, I mean, it was heartbreaking though because the banner was beautiful.
It really, really looked good.
It was maybe six feet tall and maybe two, two and a half feet wide and Richard queer and had done all the artwork for it, I believe.
And you paid for it out of pocket and shipped it out here.
And I mean, there was, we had a lot of time, a lot of time invested in it on Richard's part and your part and a lot of money invested in on your part.
And even a little on mine because the shipping, even just shipping the thing cost of fortune.
And that was eventually probably going to be a problem anyway.
The shipping cost asking people to ship it back and forth across the country.
I know you and I had discussed once or twice whether we should just order a second one to keep on the different coasts because that was buying a second one was going to be cheaper than shipping the thing two or three times.
Yeah, and then there's always that thought of getting more than one banner or ordering the frames, which seems to be fairly reasonable.
Keeping them, you know, where people are active in the HPR community with tables.
And then having just the actual clock banner ship, which shouldn't be that expensive.
So, and I think there's other opportunities to we can discuss about, you know, that another either having a banner like that or even changing up and having something else.
Yeah, and then there was just the other day, I was like literally the day before yesterday, as we record the states Thursday on Tuesday.
And I was in the bank, my local bank here and they had a similar banner standing there.
And when I looked at it, the frame on their banner was much, much different.
The way that the frame on ours worked was it had a heavy steel base that had two pieces of steel and they weighed a ton.
They probably weighed 20 pounds, but no, maybe 10 pounds put together.
And then it had like, if I remember correctly, these big plastic poles that stuck together and held it in place under tension.
But the stand that I saw at the bank used aluminum poles that went from corner to corner behind the banner.
And where they met in the middle, there was a leg, an aluminum leg that stuck out the back.
So it stood on a tripod.
And it was very sturdy and weighed, I mean, probably less than half a pound, if not it was definitely under a pound.
And so then I took a picture of that in the bank and I picked it up and I read the bank that I was a weirdo.
But sent that picture to David and David, you went and looked, you must have googled something similar because you found.
An even better looking one, a much sturdier looking one, though the design is the same.
It's got the X frame under tension with a single leg out the back, but it's looks to be more braced and more fortified like it can get bumped without taking damage if that accidentally happens.
And the one that I found, we would have had to buy a banner from whatever vendor that thing came from because it was real proprietary.
But the one that you found was a frame that would fit the banner from the company that you had it made from originally.
So in my opinion, if we order another banner, that's definitely the way to go is to get that frame you found.
It was 11 bucks plus 10 bucks shipping.
So for less than 25 bucks, we have a frame that weighs less than a pound.
We can afford to ship back and forth and up and down the coasts to whoever's going to fast.
So if we decide to go with a banner, another banner, in my opinion, that's the way to go.
Yeah, well, I'm thinking we ought to talk a little bit about since we're making show out of this about just how much fun it is to do a Linux fest and to have get the gear together and have that table there and meet people.
And so let's talk a little bit about that and because this is going to be equipment that someone would use the Linux Linux Fest or any other promotional time for HPR.
Oh, yeah. Okay. Well, I've done three so far. I've done three North, all three of the Northeast GNU Linux Fests and you've done what to the two Linux Fests Northwest. Was it two or one? It was two, wasn't it?
Yes, I was involved last year and the year before that in the Linux Fests Northwest. And I produced my own backdrop the year before and used the tablecloth your mother made as part of a backdrop.
And when I after I did that, I realized looking around the exhibit hall, how nice these banners were and what would it be like to have one of those.
So that's when we got on to doing the banner, but I had such a great time there at the Linux Fests meeting people in that. And I think that that's something I would like to encourage other HPR listeners to get involved in, especially if they're around where someone else is doing it to jump in there and add some support.
Oh, yeah, for sure. And on the banner, I'll say you, I didn't realize that you had picked up the idea from other people at the conference because when we set that banner up at the Northeast GNU Linux Fests, excuse me, we were the only one that had one. And it got a lot of comments. People really, really liked that banner.
You know, maybe I definitely because it was designed really well looked really, really good. Maybe you got so many comments because it was kind of a novelty out here, whereas at Linux Fests Northwest, there was, there was a bunch of them, you know, but that's kind of neither here nor there, just I thought was worth mentioning that they did get a lot of comments.
But doing the table is really great. I mean, because there's no limits to what you can do, just like there's no limits when you do a hacker public radio episode.
The first year that I did it, actually, I think it was the first time we ever did it. I think it was the first one to go to a conference with an HPR table.
So I think we just, I had my mother make a banner, just a big banner that's as HPR on it is definitely pictures of it on the website. If you look at the contributions page or something, I'm sure this pictures of it that scroll through that that the slideshow there.
And I brought a computer and I loaded every episode of HPR on it. And I set it up with mumble and put a, I don't know, fresh and so far Linux mint or something at the time.
I don't even know what it was, but just a big hacker public radio logo as a wallpaper. And then, you know, I just told people what it was and asked them if they'd like to record something.
And, you know, show them mumble and show them how to do a little bit of editing, not too, too much. And, you know, got two or three recordings out of that. And I think that was really cool.
The second year we were, I think it was focused a little more on getting interviews.
And I went around interviewing people and unfortunately I used a recorder that had a problem and I lost all those interviews. So that was, that was really terrible. But, but both years there were other people there from the HPR community helping out.
So there was people, you know, being the community, having fun, inviting new people into the community. And, you know, even if, if one of us was off recording interview, there was, there was usually somebody representing HPR at the table.
And even when there wasn't the table thus far has been full of stickers and business cards and postcards and all kinds of swag that you've been really fun to hand out.
And a lot of the community members have been involved in that. And it just, it just feels like you're involved in something because you aren't. It's been so much fun.
And Dave, I know we owe you a lot of thanks for that because you, I think everything that's going around in the kit now, except for the business cards. I think you, you, by the design or paid for or collaborated or headed up in some way.
Yeah, I think there's a lot of things. Oh, the Richard Claren who does the artwork for us free of charge and just seems really willing to do that. I have one item that I owe the community still and Richard's done some artwork for that. And I'm supposed to help put it together. I guess give him some ideas.
I think that's what's happening. You know, I don't live close to him, but is to make a HPR coffee mug for people to have at the Linux Fest. And I did make one last year that just kind of a gag mug. And I don't know if you saw it. I posted a picture of it on Google plus, but it's as a picture of Ken Fallon saying you owe me a show.
Yeah, that was a riot. I'd left heartily at that one.
I was trying to get a reaction out of Ken, but he played possum on me. He's very good at that. I'm sure he liked it though.
Yeah, anyhow, when you do a table, you know, there's it's nice to have a lot of swag and some things. And at Linux Fest Northwest, since it is so established. And there's the attendance is, you know, over a thousand like 1500 or more there.
I had to have quite a bit of swag or at least I prepared for that by printing some things up myself and then some some photograph things and then having stickers.
And so, you know, I think we have a pretty good assortment of things available, people who want to do a Linux Fest.
And so I'm going to put some information on the mail list and then in the show notes for this show about what things are available.
And I've got some pictures and stuff with some stickers that we can have people order in that.
Yeah, I mean, right now, I know we have, we still have a bunch of the business cards, which are fantastic that these little, I think it's moo.com, made them like these little half size business cards.
And you can, you could use this as a bookmark or whatnot. But there's like, I think there's 11 different ones and they're all designed by Clat 2 and they're all fantastic. They're, they're absolutely fantastic.
And there's another sticker that Clat 2 design that's how to be nosy on the, I learned how to be nosy on the interwebs from Hacker Public Radio.
And it's got this, like, little guy, like, manically typing on a keyboard. It looks like even though it's just a still image, it really, you get the impression that he's just, you know, fervently, you know, banging away on keys.
It's really cool. People really like that one. We had for a while the HPR ovals, that was an idea that I came up with in code cruncher did the design on those and made the SVGs.
We had those printed up from, I think, one, two, three stickers.com is where we got those. So we can, we can, and they still have that image if we ever needed to do anything with them again.
And, and actually the, the, the stickers that Clat 2 printed up the nosy on the interwebs stickers, those came from one, two, three stickers.com. So we have like reference codes from them.
If anybody wants to order stickers, I want to stick it in on it. We could, you know, you could reference these older orders and you get like 500 free stickers or something, you know, with your order, just for referencing someone.
That's one way to do it. We have the, they're, they're like postcards that you printed up like two different sizes, like three by five.
What were, I'm not remembering those as well.
Well, those were when my wife bought picture frames from Costco, sometimes when you buy a thumb drive, they give you a coupon effect to have one right here 100 free four by six prints from your digital camera.
And since they were free, you know, I went, I made up a little piece of art myself and just saved it as a JPEG and took it down or sent it down to Costco. And then they printed these up and I cut some of them in half.
And that, so that was a good way to get something for very little costs with a little effort into, you know, on a shopping trip to the Costco store to get those. So that's where those came from. They're just lossy prints.
Okay. That's cool. Yeah. If I see those, if there's any of those left. If I see those again, I'm because the back is not printed on. I'm going to run them through the printer and turn them into into postcards.
Sounds like a good idea. And I know the little business cards at Linux Fest Northwest were real popular and it's kind of interesting because the certain age people like those, the younger people like those really well and they were really impressed with the artwork on those.
I'm glad to did a real good job on that. And the nosy sticker was nosy on the internet was real popular to people. People came by look at that and wanted it. And I don't know if that had anything to do with the NSA or not.
At the time, I don't think it did. That's just, it's a, it's really cool art on there. I don't even think it has to say, like even if it didn't say I learned to be nosy on the internet, just the guy, you know, with the spiky hair banging away on the keyboard, just, you know, ignite something visceral in, you know, any hacker nerd. It's just, it's a really great little, little artwork that he did there.
Yeah, I'll agree with that. And then there's a green HPR round sticker. I think that night bill, he made the first order on those from one, two, three stickers and Richard design those for him. They were kind of supposed to be a secret. And we were got back and forth going on Google plus and they kind of got out of the bag there. But he went with it anyhow. And so some of those are still there. And they're really nice. And they were pretty well sought after.
Yeah, that's right. Sorry, I didn't interrupt. I just, I was trying to think of it and I just recalled it. And yes, I do have one of those on my laptop too.
Yeah, I have one laptop, a little netbook that's covered with stickers and I have all the HPR stickers on there, I think.
Oh, and one of my favorites is the button that you made up because I haven't seen buttons since like the late 80s, early 90s.
So I'm like the only guy I know that has a button and it's an HPR button hanging off my backpack. And I just love it. I just love knowing it's there. And I hear a rattling around when I walk around with my backpack. It's great.
Yeah, my button machine actually broke during the production of the last of those. And so they're kind of a rare item now unless I buy another button machine.
So then those are fairly labor intensive to I made those out of photographs also that from Costco and then I had a little cutter that I cut them.
And there was a step to go through to make them. And I think I made 250 of those. They were somewhat expensive and also just took a lot of time, which who has a lot of that, right?
Yeah, exactly. But I for one greatly appreciate my button.
Right. And even some of those I did send over to Ken. So he has some buttons. I remember he put a post out about that also. So those are great. But other artwork courses and people can send in and for HPR stickers or postcards or whatever.
And I think we should encourage people to do that.
Oh, yeah, for sure. Absolutely. Because we'll probably eventually use it. People get excited about this stuff.
And then I don't want to forget the QR code books. These were really, really cool because they were.
And the QR codes were fairly new when we came up with the idea and code cruncher through together a script.
I don't know where the script runs, but it pumps out pages and pages and pages of PDF file. And each page has I think nine episodes on it with the title and the author and brief description.
And a QR code. So you can just point yourself phone at it and take a shot at that QR code. And it's like a direct link to the MP three file for that episode. So it just starts playing.
It's a really, it was a really neat idea. It works perfectly. It's they don't get a whole lot of attention at the, at the fest. I think just because people are so busy, they don't have time to flip through 1100 episodes.
So it's worth the, it's, it's like 100 pages. There's more than 100 pages. You know, I just, I don't think they have time to flip through. But when people ask what they are and you explain it, then they go, Oh, that's really cool. And they stand and look at it. And you can see the wheels turning. But I'm not certain that anyone's ever, you know,
aimed one at a link there at the fest and started downloading a show. But it's still it's a great idea. It's a nice thing to have. And it's a great way to start a conversation. And any way you can start a conversation with people is, is, you know, a good way to get them started and get them interested.
Right. And so I had those books also. And yeah, I had a lot of people looking through those to check out what HPR was about because believe it or not, some people actually didn't know what hacker public radio was. But I got quite a few people interested in, I don't know if we had gained listeners from that, but we certainly had a lot of interest at the fest side of that.
Yeah, I find that a majority of people don't know what hacker public radio is or if they do, they remember it from so long ago that it's, it's new to them. You know, it's changed since then. And, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's just different and it's new to people. And they, they do seem to be interested. And I think we've gained quite a few listeners from the fest.
That I've been at because there's always HPR people hanging out at the table and having fun and people see people having fun. And it's about a podcast and it's for everyone. And they kind of, they get into it. And I think I think we've gained quite a few listeners from that.
I know we've got a couple contributors from that that which was really cool.
Yeah, that, that's really nice. And I don't want to forget about the t-shirts, Richard queer and also designed these t-shirts. And so they're available from 123 stickers.com also. And they're not that expensive when you think about the time, at least for me of the time it takes for me to make a t-shirt that doesn't look very good. And so they're available there. And I'll put up a posting a picture of those also.
Richard did a real good job. In fact, somehow he came up with this thing that shows the t-shirt already ready to go like a sales brochure with it.
I had no idea they were t-shirts. Now I have to buy a t-shirt. The t-shirts that we've been using thus far were just like a Walmart kit.
This is a little kit that they can stick. I've not only at Walmart, I'm not exclusive to them, but that's where I picked it up. But you get these sheets of paper that you print on them. And then I think you peel a backing off of them.
And then you put a little piece of contact paper over the or some cheese cloth or some and you iron them onto a shirt. And the paper is really like a plastic and it melts under the shirt. And then it becomes permanently part of it. And they look fantastic. They look really, really great.
Until you wash them. And then every time you wash them, they look worse and worse and worse. And it was kind of expensive. And it was fairly labor intensive to do it that way.
Because you're talking about four bucks of piece for the t-shirts. And the package of transfers, I think was 12 bucks for the transfers. And I think I got three t-shirts, maybe two t-shirts to a page.
Out of those transfers. So that does actually add up. And while it looks great, you know, the first time you wear it, they do, you know, degrade as you wash them. They don't look as good.
So for like a real shirt that you can wash and have it look great. Yeah, I think you're right. That's probably a better way to go. I really like on the transfers that we've done.
There's a little tag. And it gives us a code cruncher again that she came up with. And it looks like what you would see if you turn the shirt inside out. And it tells you what the shirts made of the content to whatever.
Only it's all HPR inside jokes. And it looks terrific on the back of a shirt just hanging there as a little tag on. And I iron them on the outside of the shirt. But it really looks great. And I love that. And I know we're probably not going to get that from any screen printer.
But you know, so if you have one of those, those are, those are also a great piece of HPR memorabilia that there's only, you know, less than a dozen of them out there unless you want to print one out. And all the files are available. Anyone can make this stuff.
Right. I managed to ruin the shirts. So I mean, you're more skilled than I am at that. Even though I like to do it myself. I'm, I've decided I'd just buy shirts from now on.
Yeah, right on. Yeah, the shirts. I, I don't know. I think they, like I said, they were a little expensive, but they weren't too, too bad. And I was just saying, look, if anyone knows for sure they're going to be there, send me your shirts eyes ahead of time.
And I'll have a shirt waiting there for you. And I think I've, I think I've kept that promise. I think I gave everyone a shirt who said they were going to show up and did show up.
And so that, that wasn't, I think I did, which is, which is someone really happy. It's great to walk around the fest and see all these guys and in H, you know, with the HPR oval sticker.
Kind of like on their front shirt. And these are all pocket tees. I always did pocket tees because I need a pocket for my mb3 player. But it's cool to look around and see all these guys and HPR shirts.
And it's also it's another conversation starter where people, you know, come on. So what's what they try to see all these guys or what are you doing? And it does, it looks official too. So you're a lot more likely to get an interview.
I would like to jump back for a minute and talk about the banner because I never did actually see the banner. And I hope to see the next one. But was the banner something that you consider to be useful.
And the size was right and something that really added to the booth.
I would say yes to all three of those things. Like I said, it was that I didn't know you never saw it. That really breaks my heart that I screwed up and lost that.
Don't worry about it.
It it was a we it got a lot of comments. It really was beautiful. It really looked great.
You know, every bit of work that Richard put into designing it translated it at all came out to the front of that banner looked super, super professional.
I believe it was a vinyl material that was printed on which in the vinyl was heavy duty.
It was something that was going to last until I lost it.
Geez, I really feel bad now.
But I would say yes, I would say it is definitely a thing that people liked having.
And because I lost it, I will absolutely foot the bill for replacing it. It was 100% my fault.
So if we decide to get it and my vote is yes, I think we should have it. And I'll pay to replace it.
But since there's only two of us here, there's only two votes apparently.
Well, we'll talk about that pay to replace thing, you know, and work that work something out on that.
One thing that I want to say though is if somebody wants to do a table at an event, I think that we have some amount of support we can at least provide the banner and maybe the kit and then the stickers and stuff or whatever gets in there.
And it's shipped on to the next one. People will have something to use that there's really no guarantee.
So it's kind of got to be a commitment from someone you have to take it on and organize it.
But I would like to see us, you know, get a banner back or some type of a banner.
Maybe not exactly that same one, but that maybe that same print pattern, but be able to get that out to people who want to do.
And on the west coast, of course, scale is one we've never had a representative ad and I'd like to see us get a booth down there at some point.
And I don't know if it'll lead this year or not.
Yeah, I don't think the kit has gone to the southeast Linux fest or the Ohio in Ohio, the excess or the Indiana Linux fest either.
It might have gone to southeast Linux fest. I know some of the things in the kit did. I don't know if all of it went. I forget.
If it did go, that would have been glad to who took it.
The things that we have right now, they all fit, like I said before, in a large US post office flat rate box, which cost me, I think it's a, I think it's 16 bucks to ship the box.
It cost me $21 or $22 to ship it with like, I think I put $500 of insurance on it.
You know, just in case anything and it got lost, we could replace all the stickers or whatever.
So it really doesn't cost you that much to, to, you know, send it on to the next person. And so far, that's all we've done.
However, whoever was going to a fest just said, hey, I'm going to the next one. Could just send it to me and whoever had it sent it.
And then the next person says, okay, I'm going to fast and you send it on. So it really only cost you 20 bucks to ship it.
And whatever's in there is in there. You know, unless you want to add to it, it's, it's really a very small financial commitment.
And there's lots of community support because every Linux Fest, I've gone to and set up the table at.
There's been people there to help. They people help and set up the table. People help me in the table. People want to be a part of it.
I think cheese, there's been, uh, Brown came out with me to one, uh, Art V61 came out to one of them, um, NY Bill, uh,
boy, Clatu came to one, you know, I'm forgetting a half a dozen people and I'm embarrassed.
Door, Kate, door was, door, door geek was at one. I think he was wearing our shirt and Cody was at one wearing our shirt.
And I know there was more people and I'm just, you know, you know, how do you remember everybody when you, when you meet, you know, a million cool people.
How do you know, not leave anybody out? So I apologize if I left anyone out.
Yeah, we had Brom. He showed up at, um, Bellingham and Linux Fest, North West, even though he lived there across the country.
So that was cool. He was wearing one of the original old school shirts.
Oh, yeah. And that would have been an original shirt too. I think that was from like the first batch that I made. Yup. And you had code.
Did you, were you at the table with code cruncher or did she go the year before you started going?
Well, actually, I heard about code cruncher doing Bellingham and I was going to go there and be a helper.
So she wasn't at the table with me.
Oh, that's too bad. She was really, really nice. I never met her in person, but over, over mumble a few times. She's really nice.
I want to talk a little bit about doing something a little different or at least for my commitment here and what I'm doing for HPRs.
I would like to give a, do a second side to the table this year and support the Sonar project.
And I've kind of talked to Jonathan online a little about that.
But I'd like to adopt that and take it on. I don't know if anyone else would want to do that.
And if we do that, then we're going to have to get a little bit of paraphernalia, paraphernalia, some swag for Sonar.
And then I'll have to get a little more familiar with it.
Yeah, I mean, that's kind of the nice thing about HPR is it's, you know, if it's of interest to hackers, you know, there you go.
So if as a hacker, that's the thing interests you, then go for it. I mean, I don't mind having Sonar at our table, you know, doesn't hurt my feelings at all.
Yeah, and I'm thinking more backup stream there to the ACF accessible and good foundation.
And then, you know, bringing Sonar in on that. And I know Jonathan's working on that.
And I'm really impressed about the effort he's putting in there and what value that have for people that have disabilities.
Yeah, he's doing good work.
So I guess it's kind of the wrap things up here. We're going to replace the banner and best seasons coming up.
In fact, today, actually, as you'll have Linux best, I guess, I got invitations, come to a coffee there and wasn't able to make it.
Even though I'd like to, I know Cody Cooper's there. And I hope to see him at Linux best Northwest.
I'm going to try to recruit him in a Martino Band-O to work there at the table with me, at least for some of the time.
And I guess, well, this puts some notes out here about our discussion and let people know what's available and see where it goes.
Yeah, at the moment, NY Bill has the HPR kit and he is bringing it across the Atlantic that kits going to log camp.
So if you are going to log camp, if you've been, oh, let me, okay, so here's one thing.
When we say banner, there's so far there's been two banners and one does still exist.
Sometimes we call it a tablecloth. What we did in the first kit, my mom helped out because she says she made a big white tablecloth for us just to cover the folding tables you get at a conference.
We figured it'd be something like that. So if we had just a white sheet to go over it, at least we'd have a clean slate metaphorically.
And it does. We did. It works. You're the only one there with one. Most people just have the dirty tables. So there's that.
She also made a, I want to say, what was it? Maybe six feet long and maybe three or four feet tall. So it's wider than it is tall.
There's just a big white sheet of material with the letters HP are sewn onto it. And then it's got some like material dangling from the top of it, which you could wrap around something and tie it to something or or pin it up with something.
And we've used it different ways in the past some some years we've safety pinned those things to the tablecloth so that the banner laid on the table and looks like it was part of the tablecloth.
Another year we hung it up on the wall above us. We were allowed to do wall hangs that year was so we've done some different stuff with that particular banner.
But the thing that we do to it that I think is really fun is anyone whose voice has been on HBR or who contributes on the back end.
If they go to a fest, we I always ask them and I've asked real fast people do this. We asked them to sign the banner just put their autograph on there.
And you know, maybe like the year of the fest that they were on. So we've got lots of signatures on there. You can you can read, you know, names of some of your favorite HPR personalities on there. And that's really really fun to me.
And we've had people, you know, it was really cool this year. We had people going on there and they find their own signature and just add 2013 to where it's at 2011 and 2012 already. And that was really cool.
Yeah, I had some people sign there too that in some I forgot is a little problem. My part for getting the most important thing probably to have people sign.
I don't know if it's the most important thing because there is only the one and it's real hard to share. We got to take some pictures of that. Yes.
Hey, actually, NY Bill, maybe your wife could take some pictures because she's a really excellent photographer and has a really nice camera.
So that would be it would be cool if she could grab a snapshot of that. But yeah, it's going to it's going to be cool. It's going to have some European autographs on it this year.
So NY Bill is going to Oddcamp. Yeah, yeah, I believe it's Oddcamp. I'm pretty sure it's what he said. Yeah, he's going over there sadly Ken Fallon won't be going to Oddcamp.
So we're going to miss his autograph again. I don't think he's I don't think we got him on there. We need to he's one of my favorite people on the planet.
And then yeah, but he's going over there and he's going to represent at Oddcamp, which how cool is that going to be because he's like he's one of the Linux outlaw OGs.
He's, you know, I mean, I've listened to Linux outlaw since like I think episode seven was the first one I listened to and then I listened, you know, before episode eight came out, I had listened to one through six.
So I'm an old school listener of theirs, but he was on their forums like right from the get go. So he's he's like OG over there. He's he's going to be a real celebrity.
Well, that's cool. I expect some interviews from him. They'll from fab and down if fab goes at all, I guess he's got a new job back in the old country.
Yeah, yeah, that's true. I wasn't even thinking of that. But yeah, be cool. If you got some interviews that the last interviews we got from Northeast Linux Fest, where those were all done with his mic and his computer. And I thought they sounded great. I thought his set up sounds terrific. So I hope he gets some interviews.
And now actually, I think he said he's got the, he bought an H2 assume H2. So that those sound great too. So he's got some real sound quality on his side. If he gets some interviews, they should be fantastic.
And that reminded me last year, we talked a little bit about at least through the mail list or by email to we're on the community news about getting an H1 for send around with the table kit. And I bought one for myself and I'm willing to contribute to get another one so we can send it around and see what happens.
Yeah, that's another topic that kind of was put on my plate. And then I didn't get back to it. I've been, I've been in addition to my normal laziness and procrastination. I have been busy as heck with real life this year. And I'm just, I'm so embarrassed how little I've gotten done this year and how little I've been able to participate.
But it's just, it's been a completely hectic year for me. So that's, that's something I have to get back to. I can't commit financially to that right now, especially if I'm committing to the banner.
But at some point, I, you know, when I'm able to, I really would like to, I really think we should have an H2 that goes around with the kit for anyone who's, you know, if someone's willing to go to a fest and spend their time doing interviews rather than, you know, enjoying a fest and doing the stuff that they, that most people go to a fest to do if they're willing to do that, it would be nice to provide them the hardware to do it.
But, you know, properly and, and, you know, you look like a pro with a, with an H2.
Yeah, that's, that's true. Well, I'm about ready to hang it up here, Bokey. And I want to say I appreciate you and all the HPR people.
And I guess one more thing I just thought about that I had written down here is, if we do another banner, do we want to put the linear pages and the bin rev logos on that banner?
And made those up and he reproduced those for that coffee mug that I haven't done. Do we want to do that? I think that's some good question to answer.
I don't see why not. I mean, both bin rev and lunar pages have supported HPR bin rev right from the start. I mean, it was, you know, birthed from bin rev.
It's, you know, reason, you know, why not to do that? And lunar pages, they've really stepped up, you know, right when we needed them, they stepped up and they've been there for us.
I don't see any reason not to do it. You know, I mean, the worst case scenario is, no, I don't, there's not even, I can't even think of one because who cares, everything's great right now.
And, and I, you know, share the love I say.
Exactly. If we don't get a big backlash to some sort, I think we'll probably end up going that way. What do you think?
Yeah, I mean, you know, I, I don't understand how there could be backlash. I mean, these are just supporters and sponsors of HPR and, and members of our community.
So I don't, I don't, you know, maybe somebody would say it's a commercial thing, but they're paying for the website and they're really not asking for a much in return. And I, I don't know, I, I say yes, definitely.
Yeah, I think we'll go with that. And then I'll just confess that I bought some website hosting and I bought from them without thinking of going to anyone else.
I'm ready to end because their sponsorship, the HPR, I really appreciate that. And I will get stankdog that mug.
Yeah, for sure. When those mugs, now, were you going to make mugs up and have a stock pile of them, or were you going to have the art available at some, some mug printer who, like, prints on demand and ships amount to you?
They were just going to be a print on demand and I, I'm going to buy stankdog and some of his buddies out there who are the HPR supporters, you know, some, some mugs.
The artwork will be available. That one mug I made of Kim, it cost $12 shipped to my house, came in just a few days.
So it's, it's really not that expensive to have your own personal mug that if we have the artwork there, then we'll have an official HPR mug.
Okay, so the official one that you're talking about now, is it, is it going to be the same as the other one? Is that have Ken's picture on it? Did you get his permission to do that?
He is a public figure, so he does not need to give his permission. He's like a politician, but I didn't get his permission, but the official mug will be different than that using the logo and some stuff that Richard's designed.
Oh, okay. Oh, so now I need two mugs. I really want Ken on my mug.
I want Ken's mug on my mug. That sounds good. I got that one in my shop out there. I thought about sending it over to him, actually.
It's not a bad idea. There's, there's something I need to send to him too, but that's, yeah, it's supposed to be a secret too.
Okay, maybe I'll put a belief in there. So, no, it's something, he's not aware of it. It's just something I've, if I need to do, then I need to do it soon.
Okay, Poki, I've got to run here. I've gotten text messages to check the expiration on the milk and refrigerator for some reason.
Oh, somebody must not be feeling good. Well, that's not great to end on, but I hope everything goes well. Thanks for having me on tonight and for sending me the invite and for recording and hosting the show.
They have really appreciate it and for all the work you've done.
Okay, we'll see you around and we'll get that banner thing started out and everything and for the Linux fest season's coming up.
So, hit your round, Poki.
All right, right on. Thanks to everyone for listening and thanks especially to everyone who does all the work on the backend. Keep an HPR running.
Yes, thank you very much.
Good day, night, morning, week, month, later.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio where Hacker Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the economical and computer cloud.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-sponsored by lunar pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments, attribution, share a line, free those own license.
