Episode: 1281
Title: HPR1281: Samsung Ativ Premiere
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1281/hpr1281.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 22:51:56

---

Samson's John Snow of Slaptops and other interesting mutations at the Samson 2013
8th Premier.
The house was pretty packed yesterday in London for Samson's 8th Premier 2013 event.
Press, partners and people from Samson from all parts of the globe milled around in a mostly
darkened hall, patiently anticipating the new product releases the company was about to give
from its giant stage. To be honest, we did wonder what the fuss was all about. Earlier,
this week Samson had already leaked the specs of the Galaxy Zoom, its recent addition to the
Galaxy smartphone line that was probably invented by the Hulk himself. In Hulk's unstoppable
urge to Hulk smash everything together, the Galaxy Zoom was born after they gave the
green monster a Galaxy S4 in one hand and a poignant shoot in the other. When the green
guy got the order to smash them together, the Galaxy Zoom was born. In short, an S4 with
an actual optical zoom. Future owners of this device who want to carry it in their pockets
might get the line, is that an S4 zoom in your pockets or are you really, really happy to see me?
Where the S4 Zoom should be a phone that feels like a point and shoot, the other Hulk smash
experiment leaves no room for interpretation. The Samson Galaxy NX is a powerful DSLR with 13
interchangeable lenses tied to an Android OS and a 4G connection. For those paparazzi who want
to snap up that money shot of Lindsay Lohan's latest nipple slip and send it to the Sun's headquarters,
they can now do it all from one device. Samson definitely has the time and the resources to
throw ideas around and see if they stick. That much is for certain. The growing market penetration
and the fact that people are dragging their feet in Cupertino gives them the space and the money
to do so. But when they unveiled their Samson 8th Q or initial response was meh? A 13 inch tablet
that folds its screen and keyboard into multiple Kamasutra-like positions is nothing new.
Dell tried this once and came up with a horrible Inspiron duo. The specs of Samson's 8th Q did
raise some eyebrows as it sported a higher resolution than most Retina MacBooks. At 3200 by 1800
pixels on a 13 inch display which was apparently an outdoor friendly screen as its brightness would
supposedly outs shine to Sun itself. For those who have stumpy digits like Mr. Hulk, you can also
operate this thing with your S pen pronounced as pen. Bad idea. Where Samson did surprise us was
with the fact that this thing booted two operating systems side by side. On the one hand
it comes with Samson's latest mutation of Android. On the other hand it comes with a full blown
copy of Windows 8 and Samson throws in a free copy of Office 2013 to boot. This does make it the
John Snow of Samson's presentation. This bastard son was born out of Samson's monogamous
wedlock with Android. Instead of being short, stumpy and ugly, it might be the one thing that can
save us from the wildlings in the north and oh wait I should probably put my copy of Game of Thrones
right now. What I wanted to say is with multiple operating systems and the ability to run Android apps
in full blown Windows, this thing might be a slider's dream. As for pricing and power
consumptions, we do not know what's coming. Perhaps this thing also needs chewing gum sides
strips of raw plutonium to run over an hour at a full power. As for Samson's Geralt 8-hour
battery life for this thing, we'll see. And the rest? Well, overall there were some other 8-inch
tablets, the 8th tab 3 running Windows 8 full version, but their 64 gigabyte drives and
two gigabytes of RAM will probably only please a few, at least since this thing is running Windows
full blown. Samson's took a stab at crossbreeding this tablet with an iMac and came up with a pretty
but wide-bezzled 8-1-5 and also pushed out some interesting notebooks for people with fat and
thin wallets, but the chance now of slap tops, that was the highlight of the evening.
In conclusion, does Hulk smash work? Perhaps. The tricky thing with creating crossover devices
is that our human minds do still think in patterns of one or the other, things we know.
When product C is the sum of A and B, it's going to take us a while to get used to C.
Until then, we see C as an A plus or a B minus. Are you any good at math? Well, keep up.
So smashing phones and cameras together is not a guaranteed success right away, but hey,
a couple of years ago, Hulk smashed a computer and a phone together and now look at us.
In the end, the writings on the wall. The lines between our devices are thinning,
laptops, tablets, phones, cameras, desktops, they are all starting to morph together.
Whether you undermine a DSLR by turning it into a phone or over-pimp an Android slate by giving
it Windows 8 Pro, you are waiting in murky depths.
Some of these mutations might die at childbirth, yet some of them might grow strong and redefine
their very product name. Only time will tell. And time is money. And money is something that
Samsung has plenty to burn. We will of course be offering up a full video coverage of the event,
you can find that one on our website. But in all, the Samsung 2013 8th premiere was pretty interesting.
Thanks for cross-platform geeks.
Tired of choosing between Max, Linux, and OSX, listen to the nightwise.com podcast
and learn how to decide from operating systems to operating systems using our
half-tips and tweets for cross-platform geeks. To tech into your way of life and let technology
work for you, instead of the other way around.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio or Techer Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on
day through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener like
yourself. If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it
really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the economic and
computer cloud. HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are
crowd-responsive by linear pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is
released under a creative commons, attribution, share a life, lead us our lives.
