Episode: 1095
Title: HPR1095: TGTM Newscast for 2012/10/07
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1095/hpr1095.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 18:51:39

---

You're listening to Talk Geek To Me News, number 78, record for Sunday, October 7, 2012.
You're listening to the Tech Only Hacker Public Radio Edition to get the full podcast,
including political, commentary, and other controversial topics.
Please visit www.talkgeektme.us.
Here are the vials statistics for this program.
Your feedback matters to me.
Please send your comments to dg at deepgeek.us.
The webpage for this program is at www.talkgeektme.us.
You can subscribe to me on Identica as the username DeepGeek.
Or you could follow me on Twitter.
My username there is dgtgtm, as in DeepGeek Talk Geek to me.
And now the tech roundup from torrentfreak.com by NIGMAX, date October 3, 2012.
PRQ Ray Talkets revealed Pirate Bay Party Get Boost Plot Thickens.
Police carried out a raid against Swedish hosting company PRQ on Monday, and the searches
were finally completed today.
The immediate effect was that all sites hosted on the 80.88.slash19net went down, including
the torrent sites at torrentound.com, linkomaneja.net, and tankofetates.nu.
Release blog rlslog.net, and sports streaming sites atdhenet.tv, ha ha sport.com, sportlemone.tv,
stopstream.tv, and all dozens were affected.
The individual sites listed above are now back online with one notable exception, tankofetest.
As reported earlier this year, tankofetest was once Sweden's second largest torrent site,
but in February decided to call it quits.
The closure was prompted by a Supreme Court decision that would not be granting leave to
appeal in the long-running Pirate Bay case and subsequent warnings of a file-sharing
site crackdown from Hollywood, lawyer Monique Watts-dead, and anti-pired Byron lawyer, Henrik
Pontein.
Despite the announcement, tankofetest had remained online until this week, but as confirmed
by PRQ-Ona, BKL V-Borg, this morning the police took the site's server on Monday.
They took three servers, and I know two of the sites that were targets of the raid.
The first is tankofetest.com, or tankofet.com.
They are different names for the same site, he said.
The other is a site called appbucket.com, it has not been on since April when they stopped
paying their bills, so no other customer has taken over the server, V-Borg added.
Although V-Borg is quoted as referencing appbucket.com, that site has zero traffic and is owned
by photo-bucket incorporated a seemingly unlikely target for police operation.
However, switch to appbucket.net and things get a whole lot more interesting.
This site was the subject of a legal action in August, when the FBI seized its domain
and the crackdown against Android app piracy.
It was also hosted by PRQ.
The site currently diverts to the familiar seized server notice, but it's who is entry
reveals that it is still registered to PRQ itself, care of none other than the pirate
pay co-founder and former PRQ-Ona Gottfried Swathom.
Current freak is currently awaiting further information from Mikhail V-Borg.
Overall the rates this week generate a lot of interest from web users, particularly
as they coincide with the pirate pay being offline.
The site has now returned, but it's interesting to see how many electronic sites we see to
boost as a result of its downtime.
As can be seen from the member graph below, another direct beneficiary of the rate is
the Swedish pirate party after having its server seized this week.
Think of a test redirected its domain to the party's Facebook page.
This resulted in a very welcome onslaught of new members, explains pirate party leader
Anna Trollberg.
Last time I checked, we had about 1,000 new members and 12,000 new likes on Facebook in
a day.
My theories are currently refusing to discuss the rates, but anti-piracy group anti-pirate
buy-in confirms that on Monday, 50 illegal sites went offline as a result of the action
at PRQ.
From EFF.org, date October 1, 2012, by Handy Fakuri, Governor Brown vetoes California
electronic privacy protection.
Again, location privacy took a hit in California yesterday when Governor Jerry Brown vetoed
SB1434 and EFF and ACLU sub-ponsored bill that would have required law enforcement
to apply for a search warrant in order to obtain the location tracking information, despite
the bill's passing through the state legislature, with overwhelming bipartisan support, despite
local newspaper editorials in favor of the bill, and despite more than 1,300 concerned
Californians, using our action-centered to urge him to sign the bill into law, Governor
Brown instead decided to sell out privacy rights to law enforcement.
It's not the first time either.
Last year, he did the same thing with SB914, a bill that would have required police to
obtain a search warrant before searching an arrested individual's cell phone incident
to arrest.
To read the rest of this article, follow links in the show notes.
From TechDirt.com, by Mike Masnick, dated Friday, October 5, 2012, while the MPAA can't
win the hearts and minds of the public, file sharing is mainstream.
A few weeks ago, we wrote about the new digital music index from London-based music metrics,
looking at the popularity of file sharing by location in the UK.
The results showed that the active file sharing was mainstream rather than a limited activity.
The same group has now released a US version of its report, which more or less shows the
same thing.
Black quote, Americans downloaded more than 97 million albums and singles using BitTorrent
during the first half of 2012, with Gainesville, Florida named as the country's pirate capital
in an influential new report of the 97 million Torrents download across the USA around 78%
or albums in 22% singles, assuming an album contains 10 tracks the total number of songs
downloaded would have surpassed 759 million in six months.
The report admits that not all of the songs being downloaded were unauthorized, but
suggests that since many of them are, the characterizations are fair, of course, just
as we saw in the UK, all this really seems to show is how widespread file sharing is.
It's not a marginalized effort hidden away from society as some would have you believe,
but something that a very large percentage of the population engages in on a regular basis.
A much more interesting and relevant report comes from Joe Carriganis, who is teasing a
larger new report that's about to be released concerning copy culture in both the US and
Germany.
The first tease discusses the attitudes of file shares in the US about whether or not
it's reasonable to do certain types of file sharing, and the results suggest that the
MPAAs and many politicians believe that all they need to do is educate people is based
on very little evidence.
The key point is that contrary to the assertions of some, the moral questions around file sharing
are rarely black and white.
A total comment and served here in the news report is a fascinating graph you would probably
want to view that breaks down by age the answer to this survey question for the questions
shared with family members, shared with friends, upload two websites where people can download
them, post links to unauthorized files, and sell copies.
Carriganis explains that some seem to think there are just two views of file sharing.
Black quote, let's recall that there are two conventional ways of talking about the ethics
of copying, both in relation to the theft of material property, first that copying is
not like theft because it is non-rivalorous, making a copy does not deprive the owner
of the use of the good.
For short, call this the paley position, the defense of digital culture as a culture
of abundance, second that copying is like theft because it deprive the owner of potential
economic benefit from the sale of that good, in the case of downloading to the copier,
call that the MPAA position, the defense of culture as a market, that depends on the
scarcity or controlled distribution of digital goods, and black quote.
Then he notes that copyright laws were really built up around the specific type of copying,
commercial copying rather than personal copying, and the data above certainly suggests that
the views of people on any sort of moral question change depending on the context, but also
and this is important based on age.
The younger generation just seems to believe that basic sharing with fans and family should
be seen as perfectly reasonable, the different ways of slicing the data certainly suggest
that a blanket argument that piracy as theft is going to completely miss its mark in
educational campaigns, people just don't buy it.
To read the rest of the saw call, follow links in the show notes.
From TechDirt.com by Ben Zevenberger did October 4, 2012.
Report on internet freedom shows were saying less and less of it.
Following the revolutions in the ab world since December 2010, standing governments'
fates were determined partly by the ability of their people to communicate via online
tools and mobile phones.
Whenever an uprising started a new territory dictators and government officials scrambled
to halt the ability for protesters to communicate in many different ways, other governments
looked on fearfully at how their colleagues were coping or failing to address the challenge
posed by the internet, hoping to maybe learn a best practice or two in the digital repression.
The US government and European Union were quick to respond with all sorts of plans to help
the people fighting for reform.
In speech after speech, the US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton announced large funds
to be made available for online dissidents, resulting in projects such as digital-definished
partnership.
The EU sponsored with its own plan a no disconnect strategy, both approaches share the idea that
supplying activists and bloggers with the tools to circumvent repression by governments.
Another common feature is to engage US and EU companies to support the internet freedom
efforts and to discourage the sale of surveillance technology to foreign villains.
These initiatives may well end up in a cat and mouse game, though where equipment or
code developed to increase online freedom of dissidents only prompts concerning governments
to react in more aggressive ways to silence dissent.
A total comment is important to note that while the US has supported dissidents in other
countries, the US applies the same repression techniques to its own dissidents and a total
comment.
Unfortunately, these well-maned efforts are viewed skeptically and with little credibility
by many, considering that efforts against work elites continue to intensify, people
are increasingly under threat of being disconnected, citizens are being illegally arrested, and
more and more public funds are being spent on such unreasonable restraints at home.
To get an overview of these developments in the world is worth reading the recent
theme of the net 2012 report by Freedom House, a watchdog dedicated to freedom and democracy
in the world.
The report studies the reactions of 47 nations to challenges posed by the internet and
is written by more than 50 researchers.
Based on the countries that were analyzed, it has been reported widely that out of these
countries, Estonia and the US score the best in the internet freedom rankings.
To read the rest is article, follow links in the show notes.
This article includes a enumerated list of trends in internet surveillance, which is
most enlightening.
From torrentfreak.com by NIGMAX data, October 5, 2012, mega uploads, these data case will
get a hearing, court rules.
In a couple of weeks time, it will be exactly 10 months since mega uploads, servers were
rated by US authorities.
Now and after considerable legal wrangling, it finally appears that the fate of the user's
data on those machines is set to be decided.
The data currently sitting inside 113 servers at Corpatia hosting in the United States has
been the subject of extended negotiations between mega uploads legal theme and the Department
of Justice and other parties.
The upload wanted to form our users to regain access, but the authorities and the MPAA,
who say the machines are filled with pirate movies, TV shows and music, aren't so keen.
In May, and after initial requests months earlier, Ohio-based businessman Kyle Goodwin, a former
mega upload user who lost access to his personal videos, filed a motion with the support of
the EFF, asking the courts to find a solution for the return of his data, and that of other
mega upload users.
Although Judge Liam O'Grady didn't make a direct decision, he did order the original
parties back to the table to negotiate, and July, they limped on for a couple of months
only to fail again in September.
This prompted the EFF to put more pressure on Judge O'Grady.
Now, according to the EFF, things are moving forward at last.
The courts say today that it will hold a hearing to find out the details about Mr. Goodwin's
property, where it is, what happened when the government denied him access to it, and
whether, and how, he can get it back, unquote, says EFF Attorney Julie Samuels.
Goodwin and the U.S. government have been asked to sum up with a format for the hearing
to take place on a currently unscheduled date sometime in the future, describing the
good news as long overdue, Samuels says the hearing will represent another step for
innocent users to have their rightful property returned.
We are glad that Mr. Goodwin will finally get to make his case in court, and we will
look forward to helping the Judge fashion a procedure to make all of Mega Uploads consumers
whole again, by granting them access to what is legally theirs, Samuels concludes.
Mega Upload lawyer Ira Rothkin, who previously told Torrent Freak that the seizing of all
user data by the U.S. government amount to a violation of due process, says the hearing
will give Mega Upload the opportunity to call U.S. officials to testify.
Quote, Mega Upload will be filing papers with the court to specially intervene, unquote,
he told CNET, quote, considering that it is the only internet service provided that
under applicable privacy laws is the only party that can access the data and coordinate
return to consumers, unquote.
Thank you for listening to this episode of Talk Geek To Me.
Here are the vials statistics for this program.
Your feedback matters to me, please send your comments to DG at deepgeek.us.
The webpage for this program is at www.talkgeektoMe.us.
You can subscribe to me on Identica as the username DeepGeek or you could follow me on Twitter.
My username there is DG-T-G-T-M, as in DeepGeek Talk Geek To Me.
This episode of Talk Geek To Me is licensed under the Creative Commons attribution share
like 3.0 on-board license.
This license allows commercial reuse of the work as well as allowing you to modify the
work as long as you share a like the same rights you have received under this license.
Thank you for listening to this episode of Talk Geek To Me.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicom Computer
Club.
Which we are funded by the binary revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are crowd
sponsored by Lina Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinaPages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a Creative Commons attribution share
a like 3.0 on-board license.
