Episode: 1005
Title: HPR1005: TGTM Newscast for 2012/6/6
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1005/hpr1005.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 17:14:16

---

You're listening to Turkey 3 News, number 68, record for Wednesday, June 6, 2012.
You're listening to the Tech Only Hacker Public Radio Edition, to get the full podcast,
including political, commentary, and other controversial topics.
Please visit www.toolgeektme.us.
Here are the vials statistics for this program.
Your feedback matters to me, please send your comments to dgatdeepgeek.us.
The webpage for this program is www.toolgeektme.us.
You can subscribe to me on Identica as the username DeepGeek, or you could follow me on Twitter.
My username there is dgtgtm, as in DeepGeek TalkGeek to me.
Thanks for tuning in, TGTM News.
This is DeepGeek, coming off of a month-long sabbatical, took the month of May off, and
in it I accomplished many things that I needed to do, one of which being a DAAA new website.
So if you want to go over to www.toolgeektme.us, when you hear this, I will have rolled out
the new website, which will have several new features, it brings under my control some
functions that I have been performing in other places on the net, and will now be performing
for myself.
This gives me great happiness and more control, that's all a good thing.
So you will notice in the new design that, not as the main page, the newscast page, but
the links I generate when searching for the news stories for you dear listeners.
Are now divided into two sub pages with two individual RSS feeds, called NewsLinks and
TechLinks.
So for those of you who would prefer to follow one or the other, or both, you may subscribe
to either or both.
And also a combination blog, mini blog, I will be doing on my own web page now.
The tab will be there, unlike regular blogs, I make no guarantee as to my frequency posting
there, but it's important for me to have it under my own control.
So please check that out, and as this month, the month of June progresses, I hope to have
even a bigger web serving surprise for listeners of my podcast, especially those who live
in the European Union and its neighboring territories, and now the tech roundup.
In these times.com, dated April 28, 2012, by Kenneth Raposa, radio is about to get better.
The Federal Communications Commission, the FCC, is set to increase the number of low-powered
FM, LPFM stations after a 12-year hiatus caused by a successful campaign against community
radio by a national association of broadcasters, a lobby group for major commercial media.
Much to the joy of community radio activists, hundreds of new radio stations will pop up
in cities across the country, and they will be all owned by you.
Want to be your neighborhood's newest blockpoi DJ or run the local criminal of democracy
now?
Your window has opened, but not for long.
Back in the 70s, most Americans got their glimpse of the inner workings of a radio
station from the sitcom WKRP and Cincinnati, WKRP wasn't big money glam.
This was, since the after all, not L.A. It was down to earth, it was practically grassroots,
DJ's Johnny Fever and Venus flytrap interviewed local bands, not the Bee Gees.
But just 20 years later, the radio landscape has changed, it is mostly run by large stations
like Kiss FM owned by clear channel communications and guys who signed the checks of Ryan Seacrest,
a radio personality who needs no introduction.
Pat Fagala, 29, needs an introduction.
She's one part guitarist from Indy Rock band, Slack Panther, one part host of Queen City
Awesome, which airs Monday and Wednesdays on WVCQ in Cincinnati to 95.7 FM.
WVCQ is operated by media bridges and is one of the largest LP FM stations within
top 30 media markets.
It's helping people in that city connect through the free public airwaves in ways largest
cities cannot.
I'm not looking for a career in broadcasting or anything, Fagali tells me, WVQC, DJ's
and show hosts are volunteers.
They are trained by media bridges on how to use a soundboard and run a radio program.
I'm into the local music scene and this show I do with my lead singer Bree Blisters
gives us a chance to interview local bands.
If not for LP FM, there is no way I would have done this and most of these musicians would
not get an opportunity to discuss their music in this format.
I don't know where it will lead, I just know we are having a great time.
There are about 800 LP FM stations nationwide.
Small 100 watt stations with a reach of 3.5 miles.
LP FM launched in 2000 and media bridges applied for its license a year later.
They were granted to permit 7 years later and didn't go on air until 2010.
Today, WVQC has over 40 locally produced shows on topics ranging from the paranormal to
issues in the gay communities to old school hip-hop.
Monty Rue is WVQC's version of Ed Lover spinning throwbacks to days of Yo MTV wraps
today.
I'm playing stuff you don't hear on commercial radio anymore unless they have a blast
from the past hour.
I'm putting up public enemy, MC light, I get calls that appreciate what I do and think
it rounds out since these commercial hip-hop stations that are only going to play new
music, he says.
To read the list is awful, including what legal necessities were required to get these
applications permitted and what niche markets LP FM fulfills.
Please follow links and read the list is awful from the show notes.
From torrentfreak.com by Ernesto, dated May 3, 2012.
Judge, an IP address doesn't identify a person or bit torrent pirate.
Spit torrent lawsuits have been dragging on for more than two years in the US involving
more than a quarter million alleged downloaders.
The copyright holders who start these cases generally provide nothing more than an IP address
as evidence.
Then they ask the courts to grant a subpoena allowing them to ask internet providers for
the personal details of the alleged offenders.
The problem however is that the person listed as the account holder is often not the person
who is downloading the infringing material or put differently.
An IP address is not a person.
Previous judges who held bit torrent cases have made observations along these lines but
none has been detailed as New York magistrate Judge Gary Brown was in a recent order.
In his recommendation order the judge labels mass bit torrent lawsuits a waste of judicial
resources.
For a variety of reasons he recommends other judges to reject similar cases in the future.
One of the arguments discussed in detail is the copyright hold is claim that IP addresses
can identify the alleged infringers.
According to Judge Brown, this claim is very weak.
The assumption that the person who pays for internet access at a given location is the
same individual who allegedly downloaded a single sexually explicit film is tenuous
and one that has grown more so over time he writes.
An IP address provides only the location at which one of any number of computer devices
may be deployed much like a telephone number can be used for any number of telephones.
Thus it is no more likely that the subscriber to an IP address carried out a particular
computer function.
Here the purported illegal downloading of a single pornographic film then to say an
individual who pays a telephone bill made a specific telephone call.
The judge continues by arguing that having an IP address as evidence is even weaker than
a telephone number as the majority of US homes have a wireless network nowadays.
This means that many people including complete strangers if one has an open network can
use the same IP address simultaneously.
While decades ago home wireless networks were nearly nonexistent, 61% of US homes now
have wireless access.
As a result, a single IP address usually supports multiple computer devices which unlike
traditional telephones can be operated simultaneously by different individuals Judge Brown writes.
Different family members or even visitors could have performed the alleged downloads unless
the wireless router has been appropriately secured and in some cases even if it has been
secured.
Neighbors or pass or buy could access the internet using the IP address assigned to a particular
subscriber and download the plaintiff's film.
Judge Brown explains that the widespread use of wireless networks makes a significant
difference in cases against file sharers.
He refers to an old RHAA case of nearly a decade ago where the alleged infringer was located
at a university on a wire connection offering hundreds to tracks in a shared folder.
The judge points out that nowadays it is much harder to pinpoint specific infringers.
Brown also cite various other judges who have made comments on the IP address issue in
SBO pictures incorporated versus DOES 1 through 3036 for example.
The court noted quote.
By defying DOE defendants as ISP subscribers who were assigned certain IP addresses instead
of actual internet users who allegedly engage in infringing activity plaintiffs sought after
discovery has the potential to draw numerous innocent internet users into litigation placing
a burden upon them that weighs against allowing the discovery as designed end of quote.
Judge Brown concludes that in these and other massed, bit torn lawsuits is simply unknown
whether the person linked to the IP address has anything to do with the alleged copyright
infringement.
Although the complaint state that the IP addresses are assigned to devices and thus by discovering
the individual associated with that IP address will review defense true identity, this is
unlikely to be the case he concludes.
In other words, the copyright holders in these cases have wrongfully accused dozens, hundreds,
and sometimes thousands of people.
Decided from effectively shutting down all mass bit torn lawsuits in the Eastern District
of New York, the order is a great reference for other judges dealing with similar cases.
Sowing bit torn users is fine, especially one at a time, but with proper evidence and
not by abusing and misleading the courts.
From torrentfreak.com, dated May 23, 2012 by Ernesto, mega uploads Kim.com refuses to give
up passwords.
Mega upload continues its legal battle both in the U.S. and New Zealand.
This week, dot com and his legal team were at Auckland's High Court to request a judicial
review of the legality of the search warrants that were used to raid his Coatsville mansion
in January.
During the hearing, dot com's lawyer Paul Davison demanded access to the data stored
on the 135 computers and odd drives that were taken into custody.
The lawyer argued that the data is needed to mount the proper defense.
Not only to fight for the extradition, but also to show that excessive police action was
used during the raid.
The raid was captured by CCTV data, which is stored on the computers in question.
The FBI, however, is objecting to the data handover because some of the files are encrypted.
The uploads founder is refusing to hand over the passwords to those files before he's
guaranteed access to the data himself, supervised by the court if needed.
During the hearing, dot com and his legal team also learned that the data stored on the
computers has already been sent to the U.S. authorities, previously the court had offered
assurances that this would not happen without prior warning.
Davison responded to these revelations by saying that the process was off the rails and that
the rights of mega uploads founder have been subverted.
Talking to Rae in New Zealand, dot com's lawyer Ira Rothkin suggests file play and alleges
that the U.S. government is trying to get valuable evidence out of New Zealand to obstruct
a successful defense.
Our concerns are that the United States will have New Zealand take all the data and all
the hard drives that have been confiscated and remove them from the New Zealand jurisdiction,
essentially making it so the New Zealand judiciary cannot exercise New Zealand's reviews, New
Zealand values and fairness and due process and bring it all over the United States so
that it cannot be used in an extradition hearing.
Their hearings had an emotional effect on the mega upload founder when his lawyer recalled
how dot com was ripped from his family in January in a raid which may not have been legitimate.
He had to wipe tears from his eyes.
Outside the court dot com commented on his emotional reaction.
It's just remembering what happened to us which I think was unfair and over the top.
It just got to me.
I'm just a human being you know, he told reporters.
Now that the hearings are over is up to Judge Winkleman to decide whether mega upload founder
can have access to his personal data and to decide on the possible judicial review
into the legality of the search warrants.
Meanwhile the US criminal case has gone relatively silent dot com told torn freak that his legal
team is working hard on a reply to the indictment where the mega conspiracy is accused of engaging
in a racketeering conspiracy conspiring to commit copyright infringement conspiring to commit
money laundering and two substantive counts of criminal copyright infringement where the
mega upload will have to defend itself in the US is still uncertain though.
This month Judge O'Grady informed the FBI that a trial in the United States may never
happen because it is impossible to serve a foreign company with criminal charges.
So editorial comment that last paragraph is much more significant than it sounds.
The case may not be prosecutable in the United States.
What this implies and this is a very heavy implication is that a business in a foreign country
that announces that it has discovered a way for independent artists to get paid by people
downloading their music regardless of whether or not the people who are doing the downloading
or subscribers to the company provide the web server that is downloaded off of.
Whether a company that makes that announcement can be rated by a foreign country have all
of its infrastructure taken by the FBI wiping its business off of the face of the internet
regardless of whether or not the case actually gets to the courts in the United States the
business has been smashed.
So is quite conceivable that the RIA and MPAA companies could have bribed either legally
or illegally FBI agents and other police forces to destroy a business in a foreign country
illegally and effectively take a competitor to American music media establishment off
the internet out of fear that they might have found a business model that finally frees
us of the RIA that's an important concept to remember and of editorial comment.
From EFF.org by Parker Higgins did May 21, 2012, the Netherlands passes net neutrality
legislation.
New legislation in the Netherlands makes it the first country in Europe to establish
a legal framework supporting net neutrality.
In addition to the net neutrality provisions the law contains language that restricts when
ISPs can wiretapped their users and limits the circumstances under which ISPs can cut
off a subscriber's internet access altogether.
The anti wiretapping section of the new law specifies that ISPs may not use technologies
like deep packet inspection except under limited circumstances or with explicit consent from
the ISPs customer or to comply with the court order or other legislative provision.
One Dutch ISP KPN came under fire last year for using DPI to determine whether its subscribers
were using VoIP on mobile devices.
The new law sets out an exhaustive list of six circumstances in which an ISP can disconnect
or suspend the internet access of subscribers.
These include termination of the request of the subscriber, nonpayment by the subscriber
in case of deception at the expiry of a fixed contract, force measure or if the ISP is
required to terminate by law or a court order.
In addition the net neutrality provisions also permit blocking of an internet connection
where necessary for the integrity and security of a network.
The provisions are the Dutch government's implementation of the 2009 Yee Utilicombs
package, Revision Framework, article 13A of the Framework Directive States that EU member
states may only adopt measures interfering with citizens' ability to access and use the
internet and limit its circumstances.
In particular measures may only be imposed if they are appropriate, proportionate and necessary
when a democratic society and their implementation shall be subject to adequate procedural safeguards
and conformity with the European Convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental
freedoms and general principles of community law, including effective judicial protection
and due process.
To read the rest of the small call follow links in the show notes.
From eff.org did April 20, 2012 by Hany Fakuri, a picture is worth a thousand words
including your location.
At first blush it seems obvious that a picture could reveal your location.
A picture of you standing in front of the Golden Gate Bridge sensibly leads the conclusion
you're in the San Francisco Bay area when the photo was taken.
But now that small phones are quickly supplanting traditional digital cameras and even traditional
cameras now have Wi-Fi built in, many more pictures are finding their way onto the web
in places like Twitter, Flickr, Google Plus and Tumblr.
In the span of 10 days, popular photo social network Instagram add 10 million new users
as a result of the release of its Android app and its acquisition by Facebook.
And the location data hidden in these quick and candid pictures, even when your location
isn't as obvious as standing in front of the Golden Gate Bridge, is becoming another
easy way for anyone including law enforcement to figure out where you are.
Like the case of Warmer, a member of an anonymous offshoot called Cabin Crew, for example,
according to the federal government, Warmer broke into a number of different law enforcement
databases and obtained a wealth of sense of information, and a Twitter post, Warmer,
provided a link to a website that contained the sense of information as well as a picture
of a woman posing with a sign torquing the authorities.
What's the picture was taken with an iPhone 4, which contains a GPS device built in.
The GPS coordinates of where the picture was taken was embedded into the picture's
exif metadata.
The FBI was able to use the exif data to determine that the picture was taken at a house.
In one turn, South Australia.
The FBI tracked down other online references to Warmer with one website containing the name
Higinio Okoa.
The feds took a look at Okoa's Facebook account, which detailed that his girlfriend was
Australian.
Combined with the exif metadata, the government believed they had corroborated the identity
of Warmer as Okoa, and it turned arrested him.
Even for folks taken with a smartphone and not embedded with GPS coordinates, for example,
point and shoot SLO cameras that do not geotag.
It's so possible for the police to get location information through exif metadata.
You can upload a picture here and see the metadata stored in a picture for yourself.
Contained within the metadata is the camera serial number.
Along with that information, the police can easily scour the internet for other pictures
tagged with the same serial number.
In Australia, a man whose camera was stolen was able to track it down using stolencamerafiner.com
because the thief had taken a picture with the camera and uploaded it to Flickr, where
he had listed his address.
But even if the thief's Flickr site didn't contain his address, police could have subpoenaed
Flickr.
Like law enforcement have, attempted to do with Twitter.
For information concerning a user's temporary signed IP address, as well as session times
and logs, to eventually determine where a person uploaded a picture from, all of which
can be used to piece together a snapshot, not only your movements, but as in the case
of Warmer, potentially your identity.
In the United States, police are being trained about the broad investigative potential of
this information.
It might be tempting to say that the problem is overblown because some social media sites,
including Facebook and Twitter, stripped the metadata out of photos, uploaded by their
members, but not all do.
To a fixed default is to use the picture's location tag unless you opt out.
Flickr gives you the option to hide a photo's exit data, but many casual photographers
tempted by the rapid growth of photo sharing may not understand what exit data is, and
the implication of making it publicly available.
The bigger problem is that courts have been expanding the police's right to search digital
devices without a warrant under the search instant to arrest exception of the Fourth Amendment.
While many of these cases, while warrantless searches of cell phones, there has been at
least one case in California where the police used the search instant to arrest exception
to search a juvenile digital camera.
And there are other report incidents of photo journalists having their camera confiscated
and searched when covering political protests and rallies.
If the cops have the physical camera and less the memory cards that store the photos,
whatever scrubbing that happens when the photo is uploaded to the web is no obstacle.
So if you value your privacy, you should take steps to ensure the exit metadata on your
pictures isn't an easy way for anyone on the internet to figure out your location.
If you're using a smartphone to take pictures, disable geotagging from your pictures.
If you're uploading your pictures to a website like Flickr or TripPick, that defaults
to automatically include exit data and location information, take the steps to turn it off.
And if you're using a traditional SLO or points and shoot camera that doesn't geotag,
but does contain a breadth of exit data, then make sure you scrub its metadata before
you upload it on the internet.
There are free online tools that will help you do precisely that.
These simple steps will help ensure that the thousand words of picture describes doesn't
include your location.
Other headlines in the tech news?
Erz Halsel at Open Networking Summit in 2012.
This is a link to the excellent perspective blog by AWS Engineer James Hamilton, where
we talked about Erz Halsel's keynote talk at the Open Networking Summit.
If you have a professional interest in computers, you really want to read this review, and
I should say listen to the audio or watch the video on YouTube for this talk.
Google has proved that you can take the processing out of network switchers and vest it instead
in a full web server, less slaving all the network devices to a centralized server for
increased performance, scalability, and security.
Important if you have a professional interest in these things.
Why a cyber security bill will pass?
This is an in these times article about why the necessity, I should say, necessity will
demand the passing of some form of cyber security bill regardless of how utopians may view freedom
and self-determination on the internet to be news from rostory.com and these times.com
spnyc.org and all.gov.com and audio for moment of clarity number one thirty nine use under
range permission, news from torrentfreak.com, sasis.org.ca and eff.org use under permission
of the career commons by attribution license, news sources retain their respective copyrights.
Thank you for listening to this episode of Talk Geek To Me.
Here are the vials statistics for this program.
Your feedback matters to me, please send your comments to dg at deepgeek.us.
The web page for this program is at www.talkgeektoMe.us.
You can subscribe to me on identica as the username deepgeek or you could follow me on Twitter.
My username there is dgtgtm as in deepgeek talk geek to me.
This episode of talk geek to me is licensed under the career of commons attribution share
like 3.0 on port license.
This license allows commercial reuse of the work as well as allowing you to modify the
work so long as you share alike the same rights you have received under this license.
Thank you for listening to this episode of Talk Geek To Me.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio or Hacker Public Radio does not.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital.com and the economical and computer cloud.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
For shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunar pages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons attribution share
alike 3.0 license.
