Episode: 1659
Title: HPR1659: OggCamp Interview with Jon Archer
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1659/hpr1659.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 06:29:02

---

It's Thursday 11th of December 2014.
This is HPR Episode 1659 entitled.com interview with John Archer and is part of the series
interviews.
It is hosted by Coroneminal and is about 9 minutes long.
Feedback can be sent to Coroneminal at Coroneminal.org or by leaving a comment on this episode.
The summary is a short interview with John Archer, Uck Fedora Ambassador.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthos.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Get your web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthos.com.
Hello everyone, this is Hacker Public Radio and my name is Philip Newbora.
In today's episode of HPR you can listen to an interview I conducted with John Archer.
Honesty UK Fedora Linux Ambassador and in the interview we discuss his role as an ambassador
what's been happening in the land of Fedora and his involvement with the new UK Fedora
podcast.
The interview was reported at Ogcam 14 held in Oxford in the UK on the weekend of October
4, 2014.
OK, so I'm at Ogcam and with me I have John Archer.
Hi John.
Hello.
So what are you doing here?
I'm here representing the Fedora project.
I'm a Fedora ambassador so I've come to spread the word.
Cool, I see you've got like a Fedora table in front of you.
You've got lots of Fedora 19, 20 CDs and stickers and what not.
Did you do a lot of event sites?
Yeah, I haven't done so many this year because I had a new beer.
But last event I was at was Linuxcon in Edinburgh last October.
Previously on Ogcam and various barcamps at Ogcam Manchester in two weeks.
So get around a bit.
Sounds good, sounds like you're spreading the word about Fedora.
What's Fedora 21 coming out soon?
Yeah.
Tell me about it.
So it's now being dubbed as Fedora next.
It's been split up into several groups.
We've got a workstation version, we've got a server version, we've got a cloud version.
And then the reason behind that is because there's a lot of demand for that.
So running it in the cloud, Fedora, Struck Red Hat, I've got a big thing about the cloud at the minute.
So that's where they're going with that.
And people do still use Fedora's server so there's a demand for that.
But also there's a lot of concentration goes into the workstation.
Is that like the desktop?
Yeah, yeah.
So in the desktop, we've got non-314 coming, which is the new shiny, all animated, all spanking new version of norm.
Which is really nice.
There's little bits of Wayland in there.
There's system D's fully integrated with everything now, including norm.
And obviously new latest version of the kernel, which will be 316, I think, at time of release.
Maybe even later.
Not quite sure.
Okay, cool.
I've got a bit of a soft spot for Fedora, because it's one of the first distros I used,
but when it was Fedora call, I moved on since then.
But how does Fedora stack up to you reckon to say Ubuntu and Mint?
Because I hear people say that, I don't know, Ubuntu for example,
it comes sort of like this really easy to use with codecs and multimedia stuff,
some out of the box kind of works.
So how does Fedora stack up against that nowadays?
Yeah, I mean, there's always been the power user aspect of Fedora.
It's freedom first, so they don't include things like MP3 player back codecs or video codecs.
But adding a third party repository, or using a tool like EasyLife,
makes it really, really simple to get up and running fairly quickly anyway.
So digging around on Google, you'll find that quickly.
But yeah, it's not as easy to out the box as Ubuntu,
but once you've got it working, it's just the same really.
It's all the same tools under the hood, and it's just as good if not better.
I reckon it's better.
Yeah, we're going to go with better.
Right, so that's probably it.
How does, what's the state of play with the Fedora community in the UK at the moment?
It's driving, actually.
The ambassadors and myself, we've just started a podcast.
We're starting to talk about reading Fedora-based events around the country.
We're going to do an ambassadors meet up fairly soon in the Midlands,
where we're all going to get together and talk about where we want to go with the UK community.
We're part of EMEA, so we come under those for our ambassadorship.
But we are kind of splitting off as a separate entity,
a bit of independence for the Fedora community in the UK,
so onwards and upwards at this point in time.
Cool, so you mentioned a podcast, tell me about it.
Yeah, so we had episode one about three weeks ago,
where we did a live Google Hangout, and it was just a few guys talking about Fedora,
Linux, community, and that kind of thing.
We kind of just want to see where it goes.
There was no set agenda.
We'll probably do that in the future,
but maybe get people on to talk about various projects they're working on and things like that.
But we're still sort of lining up the bugs on what I've here,
but it's episode two should be out next week, I think it will be.
How do people find that?
It's generally advertised through social networks.
There's a Fedora UK podcast group on Facebook.
I don't think there's a Twitter yet,
but I'm finally setting it up next week.
You can find me, or Paul Mellers, or Jim Smith on Facebook,
Twitter, Google Plus, and we're all contributing to that,
so I'm sure we advertise somewhere near you, Sue.
Excellent.
It's been great talking to you.
Keep up the great work mate, you're doing a fantastic job.
Thank you.
Thanks very much.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at HeckerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is.
Hecker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the create of comments,
attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
