Episode: 1268
Title: HPR1268: What's in my bag
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1268/hpr1268.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 22:41:29

---

Okay, today I'm going to do an episode on what's in my bag for Hacker Public Radio.
And I've got a little bearing in the oven over there, cooking my wife has gone.
So I need to put a bearing on a shaft today.
So using the home oven is a good way to do that.
Warm it up a little bit.
The shaft is cold.
I can hopefully slide it on without having to drive it on with a hammer to keep them damaging it.
But while I'm waiting for that to warm up, the oven to get to preheat,
I'll go through the bag that I use every day to go to work.
So first of all, I have a pair of safety glasses to get myself in the gate.
Required, they watch a bit of information on the SKF bearing I was talking about
that I printed off about home cross references, some dimensions,
the block bag, the NSK book on vibration fault guide,
another piece of paper, motion.config, the information so I can sit down and read that,
just pull this out. When I want to, I'm interested in doing a
using setting up some cameras around my place, maybe even dropping the output up to the
web so I can look at them from worker from my Android phone.
So I've got the config file there so I can study that a bit.
And you'll see that I probably don't need that actually a little later on.
Let's see, I have some piece of information for someone else about a job,
another piece of paper, a machine diagram, to, um,
let's try to emulate that ninkscape. I have another little bag here, a Ziploc,
it has essential things in it and some non-essential things that I've cleaned my office out recently.
So I need to get that some of this stuff home, some of this will be staying here.
A Willie's Hot Rod Hot Wheels, a matchbox, MR2, I own the actual sports car,
mid engine, a toy out of a Cheerios box, set of ear plugs, the hacksaw blade and flint,
and magnesium for starting a fire, case of emergency, the nuclear war,
the dental floss. Now I have a magnifying glass loop,
another magnifying glass, a magnifying small microscope for looking at things 100 times,
another little magnifying glass. Okay, I feel grease selection tool used at work
for calculating the type of grease to use in the bearing based on the speed, a note.
You don't know what that's about, some polymer glasses, note pad, book on grip, force park map,
and the next pocket guide. It's all of that little sack that I always carry around.
Another empty Ziploc that'll be staying here, a note-paking application, which is just a notebook
in a pen, non-android, non-software-related, have a set of ear buds, some ear plugs, custom-made
ear plugs, more crappy paper. It's this. A, yeah, I feel this away. Reliability
is assessment for my job from the last year. It's not really worth anything. I already got that.
Coffee staying copy of when the Oregonian newspaper sent us into collection for us not paying
the bill when they didn't deliver the paper. That's been handled, taken care of,
getting in another side pocket, more empty, clean Ziploc bags. Big ones come in handy for sorting things out.
Okay, we're getting down to more of the meat of things to empty pockets where I put gear.
I have a little temperature, a sentec temperature sensor, infrared that I have, fairly inexpensive.
You push the button, you can get a surface temperature of something which comes in really handy.
If you have, want to check whether your hotspot is in a motor, on your car, your radiator,
how hot that surface works really good. It's really cheap, really small. I've got it from
Harbor Freight. I have two microSD cards with USB adapters hanging on here that I have
information on that I can put on my computer whenever I want to and download things or
look at things, a tactical flashlight hanging. I'm getting down toward the end now into the big
pocket, have a battery, laptop charger for a small net book, a USB 5 volt charger,
charging an Android phone, another piece of paper, another diagram I want to try to pocket
in Inkscape to use. I have a net book and I use quite a bit. It's an Acer, I think it's a
10.9 inch aspire one, I think it's called a 722. Really nice machine I'm running Linux Mint,
XFCE or LMDE on that. Then in the bottom here is a car charger for that net book,
a set of USB cables. They have the ends on them that work on the Android phone and then the one
that's a little bit narrower. It works on other things. Set of chopsticks, wired mouse,
what's this? A Falcon, another car charger for a net book. I have more than one net book and so
I have a charger. I don't know if these work on all of them or not. Then let's reach down here.
There's nothing else in the bottom there and then I have a newest addition to the electronics
hardware that I have. I have a Samsung Tab 2, 7 inch. It has a case that I bought on Amazon for it
in a little keyboard. I can't remember the name of it. It's kind of miniature. It's a lot of size
of the 7 inch, the length of the keyboard, Bluetooth keyboard. I'll talk a little bit now about
the tablet. It's an experiment for me to see if I like a tablet. It was really inexpensive,
a Costco, $169. Seems to work really good. I don't know that I like it in the form factor of
this little binder thing that you basically set it up like in that book. I don't really see the
sense. I kind of like one of the keyboard in case I was somewhere and could use it for sending
an email, check on IRC without having to use the software little keyboard that comes up. I will
say the tablet is nice. It has a lot of good features about it and basically I'm probably
planning on using it as a reader. I have figured out, this is fairly simple, how to download things
onto it, transfer things onto a Bluetooth from my telephone and I haven't tried to tether it
through the phone yet, which is something I'll have to be doing. But it's a kind of an experiment,
kind of an inexpensive way to go just to try the tablet form factor out. I'm really not all that
impressed with it except for the fact that it's thin, small and it starts up fairly fast. I can
use it as a reader to read items and I like to print things in PDF. I'll go to a web page where
there's information and I want to read it and I'll just print it off in PDF because I think
much Zilla or maybe my Cubs has a print-of-file and I can just print it off and save it and then
I can even jump that up to Google Drive and read those things. So unfortunately when I'm at work
with the right carrier this bag, the thing I have the least amount of time to work with or to
have any interaction with is these computers and tablets because just things are so busy and
you can hardly get work done in eight hours if you keep going. Now I also have a key to a lock
that is, I believe that's it, a lock I use for locking devices at work. I say I said earplugs,
so that's it. That's what's in my bag. Basically I haul this stuff in and out of work just about
every day. Some of it won't be going back with me. The worn out Ziploc bags and some of the things
but I always carry the net book in that and so that's it and thank you for listening and I'll probably
have some more shows out on a little while about different things and you can tell I collect toys
and hey my bearing, pre-heat went off on the oven so I'll leave a cook for a half an hour or so
and I'll probably um if you're interested jump me a send me an email and I'll let you know how the
bearing thing came out which I'm sure no one's interested in but me but the idea there is to expand
the bearing the diameter of the inner race on the bearing larger than the shaft that it fits tightly
on that it's a slip fit or a shrink fit slip it in place it'll shrink down to the right size without
banging on it which will actually damage it so hey thanks a lot for listening and you know that
you always have hacker public radio available to put your show out and to share with you have what
I call the Ruby slippers there's no place like home just click those two heels together you can
get to hacker public radio and put your show up thanks
you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does our
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself
if you ever consider recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy it really is
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dot pound and the economical and
computer cloud HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binwreff.com all binwreff projects are
crowd-responsive by linear pages from shared hosting to custom private clouds go to lunar pages.com
for all your hosting needs unless otherwise stasis today's show is released on the creative
commons at review show share a live video's own license
