Episode: 1733
Title: HPR1733: LinuxLugCast Episode-003 Outtakes
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1733/hpr1733.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 08:25:41

---

This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthos.com.
It's a 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthos.com.
Okay, continue the pre-show chatter.
So anybody actually have a chance to listen to that clip I suggested for the intro music?
No, I never had listened to that HPR episode.
I downloaded the episode and then I emailed Koki and he sent the four of us the actual files.
Okay, I just I heard that today listening to the podcast and I thought yeah that that would not be a bad course.
I probably have bad taste but I said that that would not be bad music for a podcast.
Is that a current HPR something that's came out?
It's past I think that yeah I know to get to it you have to go to the expanded list.
Just from St. Patrick's Day.
I don't think I've made it that far yet in my playlist.
I put a link in the mumbled cat.
Yes, I might want to start the stream.
Hey Kevin, you were heard of what was it round cube?
Is that a web based mail thing?
Yeah, I was actually listening to source trunk and heard about it.
Yeah, I think that's where I heard about it too.
I think that he was trying to set another one.
Have you?
I tried, I said.
I don't think I was I don't think I was successful.
It sounds interesting, especially if I could get POP 3.
Well it sounds like I mean it seems like there's three of them out there every time like a ISP or whatever gives you a web mail option and a round cube is always one of them.
Let's think about trying to install it.
Should have tried before the show.
Well I could I could talk about my fail with listening to the last episode on my sense of fuse for a little humor.
Do you ever figure out what the problem was?
No, I did not.
Mainly because I suspected it was because I had not upgraded the fuse to the latest version of Rockbox to 13 3.13 and fuse is running 3.10.
And what I did was I just put the episode file on the microSD card and then listen to it in the SAMHSA clip instead.
And the clip listened to it fine without any hiccups.
The fuse was a total fail.
In fact Rockbox crashed and rebooted when I tried to listen to the to the file.
Now did you see the one and only feedback we got?
I did something about some hardware thing.
I read it and it didn't stick in my mind.
I don't know what the suggestion was, what the feedback was.
Got some hack for the wheel or something.
To get the wheel to not click something.
He said he was able to Google it and he acted like he puts a URL in there but there is no URL.
Oh yeah, that's right.
I guess I didn't read the email closely enough because greed is if he was putting it in a URL.
Now you have an e260, don't you?
Yeah, and I just put Rockbox on it.
And I hate that fucking wheel.
What is it about the wheel that you don't like?
Like I said, it gets kind of like dirt and stuff and it just kind of sticks.
I've had before.
Well, it hasn't been as bad when Rockbox but in the stock Sansa hardware.
It was just any time it would get stuck and it kind of clicked up.
It would skip like one or two at a time.
So it's just been a pain.
But I don't know, it doesn't work bad with the Rockbox.
Yeah, I chatted with this week. I actually tried to put it on the clip and I'm sold.
I want one now so I can put Rockbox on it and have fun.
Hey, great to hear.
Something I suggested actually was welcomed and helped somebody.
I mean, it'll help me waste more time if that's productive.
And yeah.
I can't imagine if anybody for the device that supports Rockbox wouldn't have it installed already.
I actually had not heard of it until the last podcast.
I'd never heard of that before.
Yeah, you know, it's funny.
I know I've heard Dan and probably some of the other people until talking about it.
But I do not remember hearing much about it on other podcasts.
Maybe there were some hacker HPR episodes about it, but I really don't have any memory.
Nothing comes to mind about where else I might have heard about it.
So we want to read his feedback and then just go, we couldn't.
Yeah, you didn't leave an URL.
So we don't know exactly what you were talking about.
So I'm trying to Google it and I'm not getting anything.
Let me see if I can bring it up on another short tangent.
Any objections to moving all the show notes concerning John from over to the next to the new one?
Well, we can't have him on the next episode because the next episode is the weekend that the Linux desktop been Boston is being held.
Oh, yeah, it's right.
Well, it's the night before, yeah.
Well, the start page doesn't return anything that looks relevant.
Well, what I'll do is I'll X out of each of that.
You can export HTML and HTML and PDF or a text or early options.
I'll just export that out forward that to everybody and clear out this free.
So we can start adding notes for whatever we're doing tonight.
Yeah, I'm afraid, Chad, or all the questions you had set up for what's coming up at Northeast Linux faster.
Gonna have to be migrated to that.
So how did Northeast Linux fest go?
Yeah.
You know, I put, I used Duck Duck Go and I searched for Santa Clip Hardware Wheel Mod with no quotes.
And among the results that come up look to be a lot of hardware mods, which looks very interesting.
I haven't, I haven't go open any of the search results, but the search page was pretty interesting.
There's the results.
I gotta try that because Google, on a Google wants to do a summary stuff.
Well, they treat their customers very well.
You need to, are you using Firefox?
Me?
Hunky.
Chrome and Ice Weasel.
I think you can add an extension, I know, in Chrome and Firefox, it's built ad blocks and we'll get rid of all that crap.
I'm pretty sure ad block does not run in Chrome or Chromium.
I remember maybe back about two years ago, they were asked about migrating it.
They said we have absolutely no interest in supporting Chrome and Chromium unless that's changed.
And really that could bring up a first topic because a lot of the websites for podcasts that we listen to are ad supported to bring in income.
And so if you run ad block, you're denying, and I do run ad block, I'll be forthright on that.
But, you know, it's been said, well, you know, a lot of these open source resources are supported by ads on the website.
So are you, you know, are we hurting, hurting our open source friends by running ad block and denying them that income?
The one thing I'll say is, you know, my excuse is my bandwidth is so horribly small that I feel justified in not loading anything on the page I don't have to.
That reminds me I had I've been thinking from time to time I should prepare a segment for the, for an episode parodying the Jupiter broadcasting ads with Ting and go daddy and I forget what they're with digital ocean that's their hosting service.
Some of those they just they just cry out for being bad for writing parodies.
Yeah, I have no problem with somebody ad blocking Jupiter.
No, those are actually inside the episodes. So as soon as the thing starts, I like fast forward about three or four minutes because that's about how long the guys take to run through the ad.
The scary thing is both Ting and digital ocean don't seem like bad products. It just it gets so painful listening to them sell it for the upwards to almost what feels like about five to 10 minutes at a time.
Yeah, I listened to another a Linux podcast from another network this week and I think the first 10 or 15 minutes of the show was ads for different things.
So it's not just Jupiter.
I've never blocked any ads. I don't know. I just kind of go over them. I don't really see them anymore. I think and if it's something that's that it's just where I'm actually noticing and I just don't ever go back to that site again.
Well, that's the thing. Some of the some there are some sites. I think Veronica is notorious for being very intrusive.
They'll have pop ups or some kind of thing you need to click on to be able to actually read the content and the pop up contains advertising.
She learned they brought up a good point and I see that you can you know, you can white list or blacklist what you want to come through.
Well, you could white list or blacklist the ads, but you can't say on this website. I'd like to see the ads because they're hope they're going to be hosted on another server.
And on this other website, I don't want to see any ads chatter. It's funny. You bring up for on next that was exactly the site that I was thinking of that I never go to because it's so atrocious.
Now I'm looking at my ad block preferences and Firefox and it says that you can disable on this particular domain.
So you can actually pick a you know, like a specific website and choose to disable the ad blocking.
Okay, I'll have to try that. I think it's sad. Oh, I was working on a customer's windows machine today and brought up the browser to find something.
And of course they had you know, defaulted to MSN and I said, oh, I want you know, I'm sitting here and while something else is running, there's there's a story I find interesting.
It's like on the story and then you click on the story and fully the right hand third of the page was the all all of these, you know, just come on clickbait sites like there's a trick now to lower your car insurance and you know find find people who have who have a mug shots in your town, you know, of course it fills in where I am.
And a bunch of other stuff just just total bogus stories, the scandal that will topple the Obama administration.
And you know, it's just sad that somebody with huge corporate backing like MSN can't make the site work without taking ads from just such obviously this reputable people.
I was curious. I just checked yeah at black plus and ad block are both available on Chromium as well.
Oh, okay. They must have changed their food since I last heard about it.
I got to agree with Taj. I just got into a point where I that a whole like right hand side of the screen. I just kind of block. I don't even I don't even notice it anymore, but I do.
Like we were talking about before I do notice it when it's anytime I do like Google search I get like one or two that are relevant and then I got to go through.
Especially if it's hardware related I got to go through every single site like five Amazon three Bay and God knows what else every time I just trying to find some information about some piece of hardware.
Is anybody ever played with the I guess it's YC or whatever the light distributed search engine thing is I tried to play with it and it was terrible.
I kind of was hoping it was a lot better because I would like to get away from Google.
No, it sounds kind of rough.
I understand. Go ahead. My understanding is you have to have it running for a long time to crawl and basically have a dedicated machine which could be right through your pie or something like that.
It's kind of like when I want to start something I don't want to wait for my little machine to crawl the internet to get all the stuff it needs for that.
Exactly.
Was it sound chase or saying that he he was been using that wasn't he?
Could remember where I heard that on a KPO or whether that was on the new year show he was talking about it.
Yeah, my school corporation soldier sold to Chrome we do a or Google because we did a one to one roll out in every kid in the district got a Chromebook.
So I try to separate my personal life from that as much as I can.
You know, Taj we had Charlie.
Oh shoot, but a couple weeks ago on KPO we had the guy in Pennsylvania that provided you boot to laptops to all the high school students or school dead.
But you know he was he was behind it and I'd really like to hear maybe two weeks from now your experiences with providing Chromebooks to a school.
Yeah, actually I heard that KPO and I sent it to the head the district head of technology because me and him but heads regularly on his philosophy of locking everything down and everything has to be secured in the most.
Draconian ways possible and I sent it to sent that episode to him just a link to it and I said this is doing it right and somebody is doing it and is successful.
So you don't have to be scared of it and then he promptly never responded to.
Well, is there much way to lock down Chromebooks? I imagine there must be a way to put them through a web filter.
Yeah, we have our school district uses a company called light speed and they do this filtering software which actually to the benefit of the Chromebooks they really dislike light speed which causes the Chromebooks to constantly get kicked off because they won't go through the firewall.
But it's ridiculous what they do the firewall it just drives me crazy kids are trying to do legitimate educational things and they're constantly blocked and it drives me crazy.
Well, that's not lights but that's not Chromebooks specific that's because of the way Google does their domains we use light speed where I work and it's a constant struggle.
I mean, we don't have Chromebooks and it's still a constant struggle with Google's the way they do their sub domains and everything else that it's you really really got to watch what you open up with Google or they'll get the porn graphic pictures and appropriate material.
I mean lights light speed is pretty good. I mean, one of the things I learned was was like the translation sites. I saw all those are blocked. I said, why why are the translation sites blocked. I said, well, they'll, you know, the kids will plug port.
It's essentially a proxy and the kids will plug in porn sites that doesn't matter if they can't read what's on the on the site.
Okay, what's your do you work in a school is that what you do? Yeah, I'm a network system administrator for K through 12.
So did your school system use my big campus? We tried. There wasn't much staff interest in it. I mean, we used it to started trying it two or three years ago.
It would be right when I introduced it and kind of put a sour taste in my mouth and I don't think anybody's any interest in trying since the update or whatever here lately.
Yeah, we at the beginning, it was kind of the same story for us at the beginning of the year. They were mandating that all the teachers use it and that was going to be our main method of communication.
And it seems like they just can't handle the amount of traffic that they're getting and it would constantly crash and it was completely unreliable for us.
But I know that we get it for free because we use light speed and I don't know if there's some kind of connection between the two besides a business thing or not.
Well, it's it's light speeds product. Man, it's it's it's there, baby. It's hosted on their servers. Well, are we going to do something when we get going by 30? Yeah, let me do my thing. I've brought up the site so I can talk halfway intelligently.
Who's going to MC tonight? Who gets the train wreck night? Yeah, don't really talk at once. I think it's honky's turn. Oh, yeah.
I don't think I would say aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Well, honky. All right. What do we have though? Well, I had a thing I was going to talk briefly, very briefly about display managers and the trouble I had other than that.
You guys will have to come up with something. I take it. We had some feedback. Yeah, we had the one email. Did you see it?
No, as it set up the copy stuff into my oh, I bet I'm not hitting my email that I have for the show.
It should be coming into your should be forwarding the feedback email should be forwarding to all three four of us.
Well, then I probably missed it then. What was it about?
I will read it. The content of the email says hold on. Let me save it for the official.
Okay. Well, I'll hear when I'll hear when everybody else says.
And this is why we should all have backup topics.
I said you're at the start. You know, when we started, I said I could talk about my fail on the Sansa.
Well, that'd be good too. Mine's not going to take much time.
I can talk briefly about the about FS tab.
Sounds good to me.
All right, then. Looks like we got ourselves a show.
Well, Hunky, if you'll start us off. All right.
Well, that was fun.
You're right back.
Yes, I think I'll take this break to grab a beer. Be right back.
Hunky, why I think we discussed this another time.
Why did you use an anti-FS on that external drive?
Is that being utilized by windows or something?
Like I said, I think it was just the default and I never wound up formatting it.
It's just that was the default for it and I just kind of plugged it in and let it go.
I wouldn't trust the anti-FS for as I can scroll it.
Right, but at this point, I already got it pretty loaded down.
Anybody know why I can't know what time frame as far as years ago or when months, you know, what year and month they started utilizing the new ID of drives and FS tab.
When you're in your distributions installer, it's a can't remember when they started defaulting to using the UID and what benefit does for you.
Did they not before?
I think the one benefit is if you start switching things out and start moving stuff around, that UUID is a UUID that's specific to that device or to that certain partition or whatever.
So that if something happens where, you know, actually, I think I heard from somebody and that they switched from their system switched over from being like SDB to something else.
And once that happens, it'll screw everything up in your FS tab while the UUID is just always there, I believe.
Yeah, I know, but when I remember when I my very first few years of using Linux, it was always at the fault of the device name, you know, all of a said.
But then during some phase, they started implementing the UID and I understand why I think it's like what you said that UID is specific to that drive and that partition.
It doesn't, if you put the command prompt, if you do a BLKID block ID space slash dev slash SD whatever that will give you the UUID of that particular partition.
And that is, like I say, it's specific to that drive and that partition that is currently on there.
If you reformat that drive and do the same thing, you'll get a different UUID.
But like I say, if you take that disk, if you move that, say you move the cable and on the motherboard for some reason, because it, you know,
add a new driver something by using the UUID, it'll still boot or still be, you know, it'll still mount because it's specific to that.
And even though it may be because you move it to a different port on the motherboard, which changes the device listing, you won't have problems.
That's from what I understand of the difference.
But what you're saying is you think that the, the use of the UID is something that's new?
Yes, I like to say when I very first started using Linux back in 2005 or 2006, everything was slash device, you know, SDA or actually used to,
the door core actually used to be slash dev slash HD, a and HD, B, HD, C, and then it changed to the SD.
When you went from IDE to SATA of drives, they started, then they switched over to SDA.
But now everything's just the, whether it's ID or SATA, it's still, now it's still SDA.
So you're going to be gone on the fourth, huh?
Yep.
Going anywhere good?
Uh, spring break.
My son's senior year or not, anyone's the, we took my daughter on trip on her senior year.
So it's my son's turn.
We're going to Washington.
State or DC?
DC.
That's cool.
You have anything specific in mind you're looking forward to seeing?
Well, I, I was, my senior year in 1984, you know, dates me.
The school, the senior class always had a senior trip and we spent a day in Washington, DC every year.
Well, that's what they did every year.
And we just spent one whole day.
We met at the school like two in the morning.
They took, took us about 50 miles away to the main airport down in Annapolis.
We got on a plane.
We flew into Washington and had, or had, you know, the itinerary all set up to all the different sites.
We went to and spent a whole day just in Washington and then flew back up and got back late that night.
So it was kind of like a whirlwind tour of Washington back then.
So I'm kind of interested in anxious to spend some more time and see everything a little bit, you know, more in depth.
The Smithsonian is, you know, those are the museums there.
High on my list of priorities.
Yeah, I could spend the whole week in the Air and Space Museum.
It's fantastic.
Yeah, I really think most people in this country, the whole rest of the Smithsonian, could go away as long as we keep the Air and Space Museum.
I'm sure, I mean, I'm sure the others have their advocates, but I would, I would bet they get as much traffic through the Air and Space Museum as they do all the other Smithsonian's combined.
And actually, I would like to see the big warehouse outside of town where they have all the stuff they can't fit in there and all the stuff that they're working on.
Can anyone think of any of the other museums that they have there?
Oh, they have a natural history.
They've got some kind of popular media museum.
I mean, they've got like the set from all of the family or something like that.
I can't think of which one that is.
And if I'm thinking about natural, if I'm thinking about natural history, I'm just thinking about the one in New York where they go down into the part with the ocean part and they look up and they have that giant freaking blue whale stuffed up there.
Yeah, I, you know, probably the natural history be my second one that I would, that I would go to and.
Well, whichever one has got, got the set from Archie Bunker or all in the family.
I think they've also got the original bridge from the enterprise in there.
I'd like to see that get to see Archie Bunker's chair.
No, the enterprise though.
I can't believe how many of the, you know, this, this, the is at least two or three fan made Star Trek series that have just a perfect recreation of the bridge that they've built in a room someplace.
I don't think I've ever seen any of those.
Oh, there was a new and it just came out and I wise put me on, it'll, it'll be on his site.
And the other one is, I think it's new voyages.com now.
So what, no love for Archie Bunker's chair?
I was never a big fan of that in the first. That was just an example.
I got to live on the family.
And I, I think there's an art museum. Well, shoot, it's, it's like when we were in Philly last year.
You know, well, we really didn't have time. We were walking around the city.
And, and well, you know, it's, it's the scene where Rocky runs up the steps in the first movie.
That's the, that's the big art museum in Philly, but we didn't go in.
I mean, it's an incredible architecture in the building.
And, you know, the statues around on the outside, I mean, at least from the outside, man.
But, you know, art, I wouldn't know what I was looking at if I went inside.
Well, I'm sure it would have been wonderful. There just really wasn't.
With what else we're doing, nobody was that interested in what there was some time.
There were, you know, there's other stuff saw around it.
I just wish I had a camera that would have done justice to the stuff I saw in that town.
Now, is that the same place that had the Rocky statue on it at the very top of the stairs there?
It's not the top of the stairs. It's kind of off to the side, but yeah, there is a Rocky statue.
All right, I got a friend who lives down in Philly and we just kind of drove past that we didn't go, we didn't go inside either.
And kind of a hide, you know, you know, it's kind of up high and then you go from, you know, on the back side of the building down in there.
You're in like the Bay or whatever, but, you know, right down on the backside of the building right down near the water.
There is, you know, it's actually the water works for the city or something.
But it's in a real fancy building, you know, beautiful building, kind of Roman columns and stuff.
And then next to it, there's like a, we went down there to that there's this open Roman pavilion, you know, like Roman columns and a roof on top it.
And who was, oh, one of the folks, I don't know if it was a stackier, one of the folks there said that they actually got married in there.
And then down beyond, there's all these like boat docks, you know, and all these real pitchrests built, you know, building side, you know, they're, they're really built side by side by side, you know, an incredible site there.
It's just like I was taking my cell phone camera.
And what I see in the viewfinder is just a perfect shot. It looks beautiful.
And then I look at the picture and it's like, you know, it looks like a mile further away than where I actually took it.
You can't, you can't see any detail of anything.
But I mean, it looks, it looks like this fisherman's wolf sort of boat docks and it was just beautiful there.
Yeah, it's real nice area. I get like I said, I got a friend who lives out there. I really should go down there and visit him and try to take in a little bit more.
When we went up there, he kind of gave us the, the, the quick dime tour. I think it was not sure if it was like a Sunday afternoon or something like that.
Either way, it was kind of like off season. It was cold outside and windy. We were just kind of walking up in the streets. We'd walk into whatever was free and open.
So it might have been like a Sunday afternoon. And we just visited some of the, the, the, the real cheap and easy ones like Liberty Bell is there, I believe.
And I think that's one of the ones we just kind of able to walk in, kind of look in and see it and then just kind of opt to the next thing.
Yeah, there's historical stuff. We kind of, we went there on the afternoon.
And I guess they were renovating, you know, where they normally keep the Liberty Bell. So it was kind of in an off building and a glass area. So we could see it from where we were from the street.
But the line was like a two, you know, actually go in and see it up close. It was like a two hour, two hours at least. And nobody was up for that.
And, and then Independence Hall. We went to go in there and everybody, you know, the whole thing was like a TSA checkpoint for knives and stuff.
And of course, one bother me because I came there on an airplane. But everybody else was like, no, we don't want the government going through our pockets.
So we didn't go in there either. But we just did a walk around and, you know, we saw, we, it was closed, but we saw the cemetery where Benjamin Franklin is buried and he's right.
He's right next to an edge and they sort of got a, you know, a hole cut out of the wall. So you can see him laying everything there. So, you know, you can see it.
It's right now. It's right next to the wall. You can see it from the street real easy. So we looked at that. And, you know, last known God, he took us to there. There is this one alleyway, the only place in the whole city where all the houses date back to colonial times.
I mean, it's just one little alleyway you go, you go down, but we, you know, we walked down that and took pictures and stuff and and walked around and, you know, oh, was it the grain exchange or something that was an old place, Betsy Ross's house.
All, you know, we kind of walked around all that stuff when we didn't go in anywhere.
I said, I must have been off the, when this a visit during the off season or something, because I had no weights anywhere. I just kind of walked in.
But like I said, we didn't also didn't go to like all of the big places. We just hit a couple of quick little places that we can kind of walk to.
And of course, you know, we were staying in what's called center city in Philadelphia. I mean, we're from a few blocks of the city hall.
And you have the, you know, you have this real ornate city hall with, you know, at the very top is a statue of William Penn.
And then there's these four other guys I wasn't acquainted with. I mean, they're like 50 feet down on each corner. There's a statue.
So you could, you know, by orning off those guys, you could actually, if you could see city hall, you could tell Northeast Southwest, you know, I got to where if I could see that, I could find my way back to the hotel by about Sunday.
But, you know, but I guess it was until about 1980 or so. There was a wall in Philadelphia that, you know, no building could be higher than William Penn's hat.
And that, you know, that would make the tallest building like about eight stories tall. And of course, I guess they eventually repealed that so you have a lot.
Oh, you have half a dozen much taller buildings down there now.
Yeah, it's a real nice city. I hope to get back down there some time soon. And number one visit with my friend and number two, just actually take more time to actually see some of the sites. I mean, we barely even went down Main Street there. I mean, my wife has a, she's been from all of the heart rate cafes.
She likes to collect all of the big hurricane glasses. So we made sure we went to the heart rock in downtown Philly. But that's the only time we spent on Main Street there. And then we kind of left.
Well, I saw that we never went in. We had a running joke.
You know, we said, well, we want to get a Philly steak and, you know, last known God said, you know, Philly steak is just crap, man. Ever place in this city.
It's, you know, it's, it's just cheese whiz on a bun and, and really tough meat and a couple onions. And, you know, I guess the peppers are, are otherwise invention.
So it says, man, it is bad food. You don't want to eat it. So we never did it around that. But, you know, we always was joking. You probably get a better cheese steak at subway.
That's funny. When we were there, we actually did get a cheese steak. Well, I must have been a different time when I was there. I stayed with him. And he lives just place he was living at the time was just outside of Philly, at least outside of downtown.
I was down by some big park that was right in the outskirts of Philly. And right around the corner from where he lived, there's this little,
this little tiny place that looks like a freaking box car that he swore up and down had some of the best cheese steaks he'd ever eaten. So we had gone there. And from what I recall, it was really good cheese steaks. And, yeah, I mean, but, you know, then again, you know, I'm not sure if that was just at the time or whether it was, you know, there's better anywhere else.
But it definitely can't be worse than freaking subway subway subway stuff is crap.
I seem to remember, I think last time God said, if we're going to go anywhere, it was this place shaped like a railroad car. So it's probably the same place.
I mean, it was certain. Yeah, it's just like a little railroad car, a little hole in the wall, but it was good food. At least I can remember. And I don't think it was like a cheese whiz, but I don't know.
Tell you where you need to go the next, the next time you get in the Philly, I take it. You probably didn't make it to the Redding Street station. Oh, no.
Oh, you got to go there. This is like this indoor not mall. Now, I mean, it used to be a railroad station.
But it is, it is all like little food boos. And, you know, there's like a hundred of them in there or more. And they're just all incredible.
We were there a couple of times. And well, you know, I'm not a Philly native, but last time God is, and we both agree in our fantasy life, we would, we would read a stall at Redding Street station just live there.
That sounds awesome.
I mean, the first time I was there, I had this, oh, this, this pork sandwich, because like I got in that afternoon, everybody got already eaten.
Well, you know, I haven't had anything since three o'clock this morning, really. I got something when I was at the airport, but.
And so, well, we'll just go to the Redding Street station and, you know, and, of course, everybody's always ready to eat when they go.
You know, oh, man, there's just places served pork sandwiches. All that was good. And the next time I went back, as well, you know, over here in the coast, we don't really have much seafood in the Midwest.
We have more, we have more now than we ever used to, at least frozen, but, you know, where's a good place for this, you know, fresh seafood.
He told me, and it was good, but then we were all eating together, and he treated us just, he brought this box canola, so everybody would have one.
Oh, my God, those things were good. And they'd probably sent him back a pretty penny. So if you're, if you're, if you're listening, Nick, thanks again, but, man, those things were incredible.
You know what's incredibly sad is I live on, I live on Cape Cod, Massachusetts, which is if you ever look at a map of Massachusetts, it's that little arm that sticks off of it.
And it is probably, you know, 90% of the places around here are seafood. And I hate seafood. I honestly can't stand anything that comes out of the water.
I don't care what anybody says. I've been told that, you know, real seafood or whatever or good fresh seafood is not supposed to smell or have a scent or smell bad.
In my opinion, everything I've ever smelled or tasted or whatever just smells like low tide.
And in my opinion, if you have to dump so much, you know, vinegar and lemon juice and butter and tartar sauce and God knows what else just to be able to eat it, then it's not worth eating.
If you dump tartar sauce on a rubber hose, it'll taste just as good.
Well, it's probably all what you're used to. Of course, we eat a lot of beef out here. I like beef, but like I said, around here spaghetti is considered ethnic food.
We have some decent Italian restaurants around here. I'm not sure how they would compare to something in like more New York area.
But we got some halfway decent ones. We do have like the standard Olive Garden, which you know, you can't really call Italian food.
But, you know, it's a, you still have decent mixture, but you're not going to find on the Cape, you're not going to find like a really good steak place or really good like rib joint.
I don't know. It's depressing.
Well, unless you go really high end, I mean, you're not going to find a good steak at a restaurant.
I mean, it's, you know, maybe well, we've placed in Wichita, Scotch and Sirloin, something like that. But, you know, Sirloin stockade, you know, that's, that's not a real steak.
Actually, there was one place right in the outskirts of Boston. I can't feel like, I wish Jonathan was here. You might not remember the name of a place.
It was, they were actually like half of the place was like an actual meat market or slot, I don't think it was a slaughterhouse, but it was actually like a meat market in the second and the other half of it was a restaurant.
And they actually, I think they closed down though, but they actually had some really good steaks and stuff like that.
And that was one of the few places around where you can really get a good steak.
There used to be a couple places in Kansas City. One of them was like, again, a big warehouse sort of thing, not as filled as the renting station, but they had like, you know, a bunch of like mall, well, not like stuff you'd find them all, but they, you know, they had, they had a bunch of areas, you know, that would
specialize in a certain type of food and, you know, you just walk around and graze sort of that. I guess we were only there once, but that, that was just killer.
And then they had this old place and it was in the old train station. It's not there now, but, you know, it was like main course was either lobster or steak or both. And then, you know, mainly seafood, seafood after that.
You know, just or all a card off the menu and just, well, you probably wouldn't like to put man that all that was good.
Hey, 50, I've got a question. When you were running, I guess it was testing. You said you had to compile different programs.
You remember which programs or some of the programs that you felt you had to compile?
Well, it wasn't testing. It was just Debian standard. It was like, oh, what's the, well, XBMC, that, that was when it was not in the distro.
Yeah, I have that installed, but I've run it more than a through three times.
Yeah, the beyond usual.
Yeah, the only reason I wanted that I wanted to set up a myth box, and I still haven't.
But I've got a home run network video adapter, HD home run.
And I want to test that out. There was like, you got to go in windows to detect, to detect your channels. And then you got to import that into Linux.
And then to actually view anything, you got to run XBMC. And I never got it to work. But I was trying to get.
I don't have to use windows.
Oh, you don't anymore. Not with myth TV.
Oh, it'll automatically recognize it now.
Oh, yeah, but then you to get your program scheduling, you got to pay for a schedule direct.
That's 25 bucks a year to get the listings and TV, you know, the guide information.
Okay, I think I was just trying to get to work outside of myth TV. Maybe that was it.
But so you had, you had to compile. And that was, that wasn't the debut, but you had to compile their stuff outside.
And of course, I was trying to run this all on an old HP convertible tablet with those tablet.
XBMC can be used as a myth TV front end now. They've got, now they've got some add-ins.
You can add in to XBMC to where it will read the data off of your myth TV back end,
which is doing all the recording and scheduling and storage of the recordings.
And you can actually use instead of loading up the myth TV front end,
which is what allows you to view all your media as you can use XBMC to talk to myth TV.
So you can, you know, browse all your TV show, you can watch live TV with it now.
And you can also see your recordings and all your other media that you have videos and music and pictures.
Well, that reminds me, I need to finally get some.
I've been accused of not being on the show because of Doctor Who, you know,
when they start playing the old Doctor Who episodes here in a month,
I need to have something set up to record it.
Do you have the, like, the home run HD home run, like the dual tuner?
Yeah, that's what I have.
I also bought, I finally decided I was going to build a gaming machine.
It was, it was, it was time.
It'll be, it'll be dual boot.
So it'll, well, it'll handle with what's got to end up.
I've got an HP with a quad core, you know, a core two quad and eight gig of RAM.
But right now it's just got the Intel video.
I ordered what was supposed to work without any additional connectors, you know,
power connectors or anything, a, an ASUS GTX 750 Ti.
And I got it and there's, there's a six pin power connector on the things.
Oh, shoot.
It's not, it's supposed to work, you know, the 750 Ti's are supposed to work, you know, with stock power supplies
and stock motherboards, so, but, you know, I had the, I had the power supply keep around, you know,
to swap in for customers if I need one.
And it had a six pin connection.
So I swapped that in.
Still no dice.
I mean, the thing ought to be coming up in post.
But, and I'm playing with it with Windows first and, you know, Windows wouldn't install the drivers.
It said, no, you don't have, you don't have an ASUS device out there.
Well, you don't, you don't have a Nvidia device attached.
So in fine, I yanked the 550 watts power supply out of my old P4 gaming machine and stuck it in there.
Still the same thing.
And, you know, it, it's either that this, this particular 750 Ti is, is wanting more power off the motherboard than a stock OEM motherboard will supply.
Or they ship me a dead card.
What, what type of gaming are you doing?
Well, I, you know, where, where I looked at the specs with this, you know, if this card would run, I ought to be able to do GTA 5.
If I, I've got GTA 4, which I've never played because this, I, I couldn't, you know, with a Pentium 4 and a GP mother video card.
I got the fastest video, a GP video card I could get.
And still, you know, of course, a lot of that is because GTX 4 is just a holy piece of crap as far as efficiency.
You know, they, they tied in Windows live and a bunch of other crap to it.
But, you know, I, I don't, you know, I don't, I don't want to do maybe the very latest games.
And all I've got is a 24 inch monitor.
So I don't need incredible resolutions.
So, you know, I, I figured the quad core processor and 8 giga RAM and, you know, this, like I said, this, this new,
this new and video card is supposed to be, you know, incredibly more efficient than anything that they've had before.
What model of it?
It's a GTX 750 Ti. It's, it's the flagship for the new processor.
And it's a middle of the road card. It's not a high end card.
I guess there's 850s out there are, there are more powerful cards based on the same proc, but they, they started out dead center in the middle of the road.
And I picked the Azuz because most of them have like one regular video out either DVI or VGA and an HDMI and then, you know, and then play port.
You know, this one had two DVIs of VGA and HDMI and my two monitors I used on the old XP gaming machine were, were VGA and DVI.
I mean, this, this part of the reason I'm getting it, you know, it's like the old XP box.
I don't want to keep it connected to the network anymore. I want a new machine and start migrating.
Although files over to it, I mean the data files, anything I need to do with them, I could probably do in Linux anyway.
But there are several games on it that I haven't really finished and you know, I don't want to just, eventually I haven't really been into gaming in like three years and I'd like to get back into it.
Now, I've got games because they've been cheap on discount that I don't have anything that are run that have been sitting around like, you know, the Chernobyl game, you know, Pripyat or whatever it is.
Mafia game, you know, there was a, you know, used to be a website. I think it's now that would sell them for five, ten bucks.
You know, once they get, once they're a couple years old, but like I said, I've been hearing such good things about GTA 5, I would really like to get an it too.
I've got the Witcher, which really played the Witcher 1, really played well on the old P4, but I never got too far into it before I got too busy to play games. I'd like to finish that one.
Peter did turn me on to a, he said, it's like silent service. It's a danger from the deep. So I've downloaded both the windows and the Linux installer for that. I'm looking forward to playing with that.
But I'd like to get a video card that works in the box first.
And that card has no separate. It doesn't have a power connection on the card itself, right?
No, that's the problem. The 750 T, the 750s are not supposed to require external power. And this one does. That's why I've switched the PSU.
Well, if your motherboard has that six pin connector, then it's required for the video.
Exactly. And I have tried it with a 430 and a 550 watt power supply, 6 pin plugs, and it's still not picked up.
Sounds like the card bed.
Well, that's what I'm thinking. I have you tried all three ports, the VGA, the DVI and HDMI.
Well, I haven't tried HDMI, but I have tried both DVI and the VGA.
That's really odd.
I wouldn't think of the vault HDMI. I could sure plug that into my TV and see.
Well, no, it should just default to whatever is connected. I mean, there's nothing you can plug into it.
Well, you could have all three plugged in, probably drive three as well.
Yeah, as I understand, it'll support any three of the four at once.
Well, one I'm looking at.
Some new way going has three ports.
Got one VGA, one DVI, and one HDMI.
I'll see you at the different model.
Well, mine's Asus. Well, I'm worried about if I return it there, all those that card this week a bit.
And with $150 of in-game credit in these three games, it's like a regular $59.
And when I go to RMA for it, it's not refundable.
So I'm hoping they're not going to charge me $59, which I never paid to return the card off topic.
But, Chad, did you ask 5150 earlier why he chose something that was running sit over testing?
If I remember correctly, 50 you said it was because you wanted more recent versions of the software.
Yeah, pretty much. I figured if Ubuntu could handle it.
And of course, they have a bunch of guys to polish everything before it goes out.
But I figured I'd at least try it.
Well, the reason why I chose sit over testing, but actually the reason why I did some app pinning with this box here was
because of E17 isn't in the stock testing repos.
And actually, at the time I was trying to install, Mumble actually wasn't in the testing repos.
It was in the stable repos and it was in the sit repos, but it wasn't in testing for some reason.
Yeah, I fooled around a little bit with enlightenment, but never really seriously.
Could try and get it to run as a replacement.
Now did you download them from the repos or did you get it from like a get up?
Well, E17 is in testing now. 0.17.3-3 is the current version.
And when I've recently run enlightenment, that's what I've run.
I must have hit everything just at the wrong time because I wanted to, I wanted, like I said, Mumble for some reason was unavailable in testing.
And E17 was unavailable in testing.
And that's why I wound up doing the app pinning and the only reason why this machine is actually testing is because of,
oh crap, the video editing software that there was one that's available on the open shot.
Open shot is only available in testing and not in sit for some reason.
Yeah, I don't do any video editing.
I think I remember at one point somebody mentioning that Mumble was not available and Debbie and testing,
but when I saw that, when that was, I don't remember.
I think it was just a matter, just a gap at some point.
Why it would have been in testing at one point and then not in testing, I don't know.
I'd probably the qa.debian.org site.
If you search for Mumble, you might find some history information so that you could drill down to find out if it was removed and why it was removed.
I don't know, Googling, I found that I had been removed for some reason.
Well, I like E17, I've used it both Bode on my netbook.
And before the drive died, well, this computer that is said now, it was a year ago, it was LeBout 2.
You'd switched desks.
We're losing the 50.
Yeah, you're breaking up.
I may have let my finger slip as I said, I had E17 on Bout 2 on this machine that's now said.
That invitation of it worked real well because it would slide desktops by moving your cursor to the left and right sides of the screen.
Yeah, I've enjoyed that too, but I keep on thinking that I got to go into the configuration and figure out how to do a keyboard shortcut for that too.
I know it's got to be in there. There's a lot of configurations for E17.
Well, I found out really helped not go not sliding desktops when you when you didn't want to and I forget where the configuration is, but there was one in there to give you like three.
You know, you could set it up to give you a three pixel border on, you know, when you maximize a window, it would give you three pixels between that and actually the edge of the desktop.
Right, and I think when I was actually using BOTE because I used BOTE for probably, I don't know, at least over a year.
And when I was using BOTE, I found when there are times when I've gotten too late, just a little bit close that edge.
And I just kept on skipping around from desktop to desktop, but I've had it installed on both my Debbie and machines here and I found it's not as bad.
I don't know, I don't think I've ever actually played around with the sensitivity of the pixel on the edge.
So it skipped to the next desktop, but whatever the default was, it just has been just been pretty good.
I'm going to rebeared and come back, guys, right, be right back.
I'm doing it the easy way, just a bottle of scotch sitting next to me.
I should probably actually call it a night soon. I've been up since 3 a.m.
Yeah, I'm going to have to go soon too.
Kevin, you'd be available tomorrow night.
Should be. What time?
Let's see, it would have to be, I don't know, sometime around like 8.30, 8.39 o'clock, because I've got to get the little one down to sleep.
My wife's going out and doing something with her friends, so that'll give me some time to, if we want to try to show me how to upload the stuff.
Do you, are you going to do the other thing or you want me to?
For this one, I think I'm going to leave that one up to you.
I think on the fourth, I'm going to probably be just because of the fact of, I think it's going to be a pain the butt for my system for any of my systems to throw in.
All was it one, two, three, four, five of us or actually it would be just four if you're not around.
I'm not sure if it'll lag on my system to throw all four audios on at the same time in audacity, because I don't have any.
I got three gigs of RAM on the desktop here, and I got two on the laptop here, and that's really about it.
I don't, I don't know, sure, I might just do it in a next week in like a single channel.
I thought I've been doing a single channel down there.
No, I probably should have done that because I've been doing it in multi channel still, multi channel wave.
And I don't think as much what, I think what, you know, if you, well, you know, recorded, well, like tonight's recording, you'll probably find that the audio between everybody will start getting out of sync when we go over an hour.
Right, so next week, I'll probably just, so what on two, well, have you do the editing for this week?
And then next week, I'll set it up to record it in the single channel.
That way, it'll be a lot easier to edit.
And then I'll just probably, I think the easiest way is just make sure, you know, chop it off in the right areas, truncate silences, and then put whatever we want to put on for intro and outro, and then, you know, slap it in the button, send it on its merry way.
And you do have, do you have team viewer installed?
I actually just installed it about five minutes ago.
I'm hoping it's going to work out.
Okay, last time I tried to install a team viewer on one of my straight devian systems.
I had a little bit of problem trying to connect to it.
I don't know, something, I want to say it was, I had to have been some permission problem, but at our time, getting a good connection.
But we'll see, and we'll deal with that when we'll cross that bridge when we get there.
Is it a difficult process to upload it?
Not really, the hard part that it was getting it all set up, which is what Tony helped me with, and it's really not that difficult.
I've kind of started a Hal2 document the last time I did it, and then I'll send that to you.
And it's basically just some stuff you can cut the paste into on the archive org thing.
It's got some information for the media that you put in there.
Let's stop at that call.
What's the name of the program? Easy Tag?
Yeah, that's the only thing I found where you can put album art.
And of course, it doesn't work in the org file on the way when I play it on my phone.
It doesn't show up any of the album art, but the empty three files will.
I don't know if it's something that they all form out or what.
What kind of marks did you say, Kevin?
Album art.
He can attach a graphic for album art, and I know it shows up.
When I play the files, after I get everything, and I play them back in VLC,
well, the album art shows up on the empty three file, but it doesn't show up on the org file.
And I noticed it on my phone on other shows.
Of course, I always choose org, and they offer the multiple formats,
and I never see any album art from all files on the Y.
For what it's worth, I use Kid3QT for a tag editor,
and there's a facility in there to drag and drop album artwork onto the file.
And it shows up in the org or in an MP3.
I've never tried it, mainly because I don't use a graphical file manager,
but it shows up as something which might be available.
Now, can you not do it when you export?
Because you can set up tags when you export in Audacity.
You can't put in an image.
Not in Audacity.
That XML file I sent you.
If you pre-edit that before you.
Pre-edit that, you can use that in Audacity to bring in tags.
And so I kind of eased that process a little bit,
because you can use the same XML file for the org or the MP3.
What was the name of that program, center?
Kid3QT.
I'll put it in the mumble.
Now, this QT doesn't pull in a bunch of KDE dependencies.
Let me see.
Because in Pac-Man, it's a kid3 that's available.
And it's got just standard kid3.
It says 4KDE.
And then it's got the dash QT, which is just a QT version.
It's going to pull in some lip QT4 stuff here on Debian.
One, two, three, four, five.
Five different packages.
And if LibFone on 4 is QT, it pulls that in also.
Yeah, K. Wisher, I posted the new A-Glink in the IRC chat.
But I said it.
In specs, it shows output ports.
It doesn't show input power ports anywhere,
even on the manufacturer page.
And none of the pictures.
Well, I didn't look at the manufacturer page,
but I went back and looked at it.
None of the pictures on the manufacturer page
should show it from the top side of the card,
where you could see that it needed an extra input.
Oh, crap, that's a beast.
Yeah, I probably should have expected it with the way
it did a big, a two slot card and all.
I wouldn't have kicked too hard if it were to work
with the extra power supplier,
even if the one I had to yank out of the old box,
it would just mean I'd have to put another power supply in the old box.
I meant to be, well, set up the old XP machine as a headless box.
You've been listening to HECA Public Radio at HECA Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows
every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HECA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated,
today's show is released on the create of comments,
attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
Thank you.
