Episode: 1246
Title: HPR1246: David Whitman On Location at LinuxFest Northwest
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1246/hpr1246.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 22:21:21

---

On April 27th and 28th, 2013, Linux Fest North West was held in Bellingham, Washington.
I want to thank my coworker Brad Coffey who helped me at the HPR table.
Following recordings are about an hour and a half long, there's just small excerpts that
I had while talking to people around the exhibit hall.
The Linux Fest is very well attended and I would suggest that you plan to come if you
can next year.
It's always the last weekend in April.
Thank you to Linux Fest North West for providing HPR a community table there at no
cost to us and that was really great and we plan on attending again next year.
I want to also mention that Brom stopped by and helped us with the table.
Thank him for that.
He was out doing something else in Seattle and happened to be in the area and we're
much glad to have him there and maybe give a report of his own at some point.
So I'm in the tutorial at Linux Fest North West talking to Bob Potter.
I think I said that right.
I think you did.
So what's going on in the tutorial here at Linux Fest North West?
It's on the second floor.
Well we have about 20 systems set up with several different Linux distributions installed on them
and folks can come in and hack away on them.
We have several volunteers here and a couple of staff members off and on to answer
questions that people might have.
Yeah, I'm seeing a monitor here with Bodie Linux on it, the guide to enlightenment,
the Bodie guide to enlightenment.
So this one must be running Bodie Linux correct?
It is.
In fact, this is the only one that's running Bodie and we just installed it for somebody
who came in earlier this morning and wanted to ask about Bodie and we didn't
have it on one of our systems so we just threw it on.
Okay.
And around the corner I see a Linux Mint and what are the other distributions you might see around here?
We have several Fedora systems and several OpenSusa and Mint has several different versions
of itself with different desktop environments and we have three or four of them running.
Okay.
So I carried a guy up here and didn't carry him but he followed me up and he had a windows box
it wasn't working and he wanted to get it fixed and so I brought him up and left him
for someone to help him get a Linux installed.
Do you recall him being here?
No, I don't.
I don't think so.
Okay.
Maybe he'll bring his box back tomorrow but he just wanted into the Linux Fest and so beans
how it's free admission, I guess he showed up and he may be coming open source software
right?
Yeah.
So Bob you look about my age or around there so how many years have you been involved in the
Linux Fest?
In the Fest?
It's just the beginning.
Really?
Yeah.
This is our 14th year.
Yeah.
I'm sure somebody's already mentioned that to you.
Yeah.
And what interested you in the Linux Fest or got you involved with Linux itself?
I got involved.
Well actually what got me involved was what made me interested in getting involved with
Linux was, well, windows.
Haha.
Yeah.
A good point for me to continue my story.
But I did my first Linux install and I think it was 1994.
Okay.
And I've been using it pretty much ever since.
Yeah.
And I'll ask you what your work career has been so is it been in software?
Yeah.
I was a network administrator here in Bellingham.
For the last.
Yeah.
We came to Bellingham in 98.
Yeah.
So yeah.
The good choice of community is off to say.
Yeah.
It is.
Yeah.
Say I'll vote Bob?
No, I don't say it.
Okay.
I was just down to the harbor and looked at my brother's old boat that he sold when he moved away
back.
But it was down there.
Yeah.
Really nice.
Yeah.
Black and gold.
If you see it around, it was his.
I've been on it, brought it over from Victoria.
Well real good.
How many people do you think are here this year?
I think.
I don't know.
It's hard to say.
We had 480 blank programs with nobody's name pre-printed on them.
We ran out.
And we had over 600 people pre-registered.
Okay.
So well over 1,000?
Well, I think.
Yeah.
I think well over 1,000.
And I've spent most of my day in the exhibit hall and it's been packed.
Yeah.
So it has very good turnout.
Well, thank you very much.
And look on hackerpublicradio.org and you'll be able to see your show poster there and listen
to yourself.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I mean the exhibit hall at Linux Fest Northwest with Neil Sandberg.
Is that right?
And what are you doing here?
So I'm here from Pogo Linux.
We're a Redmond, Washington-based systems integrator that's been specializing in building
servers, workstations, storage deployments, on open source and specifically on Linux for
the last 14 years.
Do you have a lot of t-shirts here in a big server box that you have ready to win?
And what else can you tell me about Pogo Linux that makes it, would make it interesting to people
running open source software?
Well, one of the problems.
I mean, when we started originally back in the mid to late 90s, you know, the hard thing about open source software
was even building a configuration of the runoff.
As time has gone by, it's become easier and easier to put together a system where you can install Linux.
But very often you'll still run into small problems, weird little questions that you just can't get an easy answer to.
And you can always call our support team and, you know, they're not able to provide any official support.
But they'll answer questions to help you out.
And of course, if any of the parts are broken and system or anything like that, we have a great support team to take care of you right away.
Get a new system out there if you have to or replace the parts in the field as necessary.
Okay, so Pogo Linux is I buy a server from you?
Is that correct?
That's correct.
Yeah, we do everything from desktop style workstations, you know, low-end workstations.
All the way up to the biggest storage deployments you can really think about is, you know, we'd be willing to do a cluster for someone if they need that.
It's all custom built.
It's all, you know, built order and our sales engineers are always willing to have a chat and figure out exactly what suits any customer's needs best.
Okay, if anyone finds this interesting and wants to get a hold of you, how can they contact Pogo Linux?
The easiest thing is to go to our website, www.PogoLinux.com or to call our support line at 458982200.
They can get sales there or they can talk to sales engineer and find out more about company and what it is video.
Okay, real good.
Thank you for talking to me and you can log on to Hacker Public Radio and catch some of our episodes.
Thank you.
Sounds great.
Okay, next door to Pogo Linux is what's your product?
We are Candela Technologies and we make traffic generation and WAN emulation systems.
What we're demonstrating today is our RF attenuator module.
So we have a computer here that is emulating up to 400 wireless stations and we have another computer on the other side that's acting as an access point.
The antennas are connected together via double shielded RF cables through our attenuator box.
And with our program, we can programmatically control the RF signal level between the access point and the stations.
Make it seem like the stations are moving farther away or closer to the access point.
And as you do that, the throughput varies and we can see that on our graph here.
I guess you can't show the end of it.
Yeah, okay, I see the graph right there, everyone.
And then, basically, we allow people to test their wireless setups.
We have customers that are deploying bar skill wireless networks and they'll either need to stress test with lots of stations or they need to make those seem like their stations are moving around, which they can do with our attenuator box.
We're also working on a box that has mixed signal modules in it so we can get channel interference and more RF reflections and make it seem like it's in a busy RF environment.
Well, real good. The bubble wrap is going down right next to us.
I'm looking at your monitor. It looks like there's an f on there for what is that?
That would be Fedora 17. Yeah, very good. That's what we're currently shipping.
We also have a live CD that's based on Ubuntu. People can download that from our website. It's candelatech.com and try out our software and tell us what you think.
Very good. Thank you for docking to me.
Okay, I'm here at the garage sale booth, which is apparently supporting the fest through selling old computer items. Is that right?
Yep, that's right. We have a whole bunch of pieces here that were donated by the public and the proceeds go to paying this year's Linux fest and it goes towards paying next year's Linux fest. So it's a great cause.
Yeah, and this is Casey, what's your name?
Casey, Hokinson.
Hokinson. Yeah, I got that wrong, but you got it right.
And what's your name?
Belalcon.
Yeah, so what are some of the things you see here that might be impressed to anybody?
We got a motherboard and we do cards.
Yeah, bubble wrap.
Yeah, it's going away.
Yeah, very good. So how much do you think you'll make on the garage sale this year?
Hopefully over $100.
Yeah, we're pretty close probably. I don't even know.
And are you two both students at the technical center here?
That's correct.
And what are you taking?
Computer networking.
And what year are you in school?
This is my first year.
You're finding it interesting?
Yeah, it's super interesting.
Is it challenging?
Oh, yeah, definitely.
Very good, and you?
What's your name? Say your name so people know.
Belalcon?
Yeah, and what are you taking?
She knit first year.
Okay.
What is that?
Computer networking?
Yeah.
How are you finding it challenging?
No, somewhat.
Okay, your power user.
Yeah.
You're really good.
Thank you for talking to me and you can find your show on Hacker Public Radio.
All right.
Keep an eye on that. Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay, I'm here with Bill Wright.
Is it right or wrong?
Yeah, it's right.
Okay, still right.
And if you don't ask my wife.
Okay.
Man, we're...
I'm reading the sign.
It says, world famous raffle.
Well, you know, raffle tickets $1.
Is that US $1?
Canadian.
That's both.
Okay.
We'll take anybody's money's good.
I'll tell you, David.
One of the ways that we finance this event every year
and cover our butts.
And it enables us to keep the event free of admission charges
to the general public, to the community.
Is the...
Our fundraising efforts like this world famous raffle.
We have a lot of vendors that donate this year.
We have a Samsung Chromebook.
We've got a workstation that's watercooled.
It's got...
Every...
It's totally tricked out from donated by Pogo Linux.
We have an HP Ultrabook that was donated by HP
and the list goes on and on.
And we have one raffle on Saturday.
And this year we're going to do a raffle on Sunday.
Where we're going to raffle off all the raspberry pies
that we use to power the overhead monitors and displays.
Very good.
So how much money do you expect to earn on the raffle?
I really couldn't tell you.
We just do the best we can.
And it's one of our biggest single fundraising efforts.
But, you know, if we can get a couple thousand dollars,
it'll pay a belly of technical college,
which hosts us.
We'll pay them for their janitorial and things like that.
If we can come out even at the end of the event, you know,
then we're happy.
Very good.
So, I'll say thank you for the interview here.
And I'll get my wallet out and buy some raffle.
Thank you for that.
Sounds good.
Thank you.
So I'm at the EFF table.
That's correct?
Um, EFF and Tor.
Okay.
Both organizations.
Tor, which is...
The onion, rather.
Of course.
Yeah, and your name is?
Damien Johnson.
And you're willing to say that on the internet?
Sure.
Okay.
Tell us about the Tor project.
Tor is a privacy and anonymity network.
We hide people's identity online,
stalking victims, internet activists,
other people that require privacy or anonymity.
How hard is it to operate Tor to get it working?
It's pretty easy.
You go to www.torproject.org.
You download the bundle,
double-click it.
It brings up Firefox, and that runs through Tor.
Well, that's slow my machine down.
It will be slower to browse sites
than if you went to them directly,
because it's routing you through multiple hops.
But it's private.
Correct.
Yes.
Okay.
And what do you do for the Tor project yourself?
I'm a developer.
I work on STEM, which is a library for applications
that utilize Tor.
So is Tor under any pressure from government?
Nope.
Not really, I suppose.
Okay.
We are funded through some department
of state grants and other such things,
but we have a rather diverse funding base.
Okay.
Well, good.
And then, do you want to say anything else about Tor?
Yes.
For our listeners.
We're always looking for new developers,
so if you want to hack on code, please visit us.
Okay.
So what qualifications would someone need?
You'd consider baseline qualifications
to be a hacker or developer on Tor.
Tor itself is written and seed.
Most of the ecosystem is Python projects.
We have a little bit of Java and others as well.
Okay.
And are you with the EFF also?
Now, this is a joint booth between the Tor and EFF.
Once upon a time, Tor was a subproject of the EFF,
but it's since become its own nonprofit.
Okay.
And so, I have another gentleman with shy over here.
Maybe.
Maybe not.
And what's your name?
Lee.
And your EFF slide.
No, actually, the EFF guys are somewhere else right now.
Damien's helping out.
Damien and I are helping out staffing both sides of the booth.
And I'm here helping him out with the Tor booth.
Okay.
So if people want to do something to help the Tor project
other than be a coder, how can they do that?
Running relays.
We're in better need of more relays to diversify the network
and help protect people online.
So I've got an internet connection at my place.
I can just set my machine up as a relay.
Yep.
You run Tor and under the options,
so you can tell it to run as a relay
and benefit the Tor network.
That's all there is to it.
Yep.
Very good.
Thank you very much.
My pleasure.
Thank you.
In the following clip, I give my lightning talk presentation
for Hacker Public Radio.
I use sign boards as my slides.
I did it with dry erase markers,
so you'll catch that as you listen.
My slides.
This is a hack.
Don't use dry erase.
It's a defendable technology on this type of board.
I'm from Hacker Public Radio.
Everything you need to know about us can be found at hackerpubbigradio.org.
We are the community podcast and we need your content.
We have new episodes every weekday.
Five new shows a week.
So we publish a show every working day.
So the shows are a content that are interest to hackers.
So what you have that you're doing
and you want to talk about on the internet is valuable to us
and we'd like you to make a show.
Audio show.
Content is contributed by listeners and the content is not vetted
as long as it's audible.
So you can talk about any subject you want.
So is that even open door?
It's not bad.
I mean, we get a lot of good content this way.
But there is some stuff there that maybe some people don't want to listen to.
But please contribute your show.
It's not a vetted content.
If you talk about something that you think someone else doesn't want to hear about,
we will not take it off or vetted in any way.
Content is licensed.
Creative Commons by SA-30 imported.
So you're looking at that license if you want to know how the licensing is.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution and sponsored by lunar pages.
We don't really talk about this very much,
except there's a little verb on the outro of the show.
And someone else pays for all the bandwidth here.
We have over 1,514 shows of content on the internet right now that have been contributed.
There are 300 that are talked with a techie, which was a precursor show.
And there's over 1,214 HPR shows.
Hacker Public Radio shows.
Over 25 days of content continuous play.
It would fill 498 audio CDs.
The average show length is 25 minutes.
There's no length of the shows.
You can put a 1 minute show up or a 10 hour show.
It doesn't make any difference.
There is 23.19 over 23.19 gigabyte MP3 storage.
You're welcome to download that whole blob if you want and listen to the shows.
We've used 35 terabytes of bandwidth.
16,090 daily subscribers are probably more than that now because this information is a bit old.
And we have over 79,640 monthly downloads.
So if you put content out here, it's getting out.
If you have a project or anything you use,
it's one way to get some recognition on the internet.
Currently there are 248 show hosts that have produced content for Hacker Public Radio.
And each year we produce 260 shows.
So if you think about that as opposed to a weekly show,
we put out a lot of shows.
We want you to contribute.
You're welcome to contribute.
And ways to contribute.
Easy way, call in a show.
Give your name and email address so someone can get a whole of you and give you credit.
And start recording, talking into the phone.
At the end press the pound so that your content will go to the recorder.
You can call the numbers on the website for the US.
And there's a number in the UK for the European.
You can email or FTP a show in.
Like I said, all the information is on the Hacker Public Radio.
Or website or you can use Skype.
Call out in Skype recorder.
And more info, of course, Hacker Public Radio dot info or dot or contribute.
Audio only.
And of course more info.
And we have pre-node pound broadcast planet is our chat room.
And there's always someone in there to help you out.
And there's a little banter going on here also.
Any questions?
Okay.
Say one thing.
If you're a first time contributor, do you have a key?
Right.
We have a queueing system.
So we can only put out one show a day.
So five a week.
So but if you're our first time contributor, your show will go to the top.
Now with Linux Fest Northwest, we have five slots dedicated to that in the next two weeks.
So anything we produce from the Linux Fest here will go in within the next two weeks.
And we have an interview this year with Jacob Perry.
So if you've listened or you want to listen to that,
is pre-node Fest Northwest advertised the festival?
And I want to say thank you to the Linux Fest Northwest for having us.
And to give us a free table, I mean, how awesome is that, right?
So any more questions?
Okay.
We're going to give way.
Thanks.
Okay.
I'm here Sunday morning.
Linux Fest hasn't begun.
And I'm here with Martin.
Oh, Bando.
And where are you from, Martin?
I'm from Portland area.
Okay.
Good. You're my neighbor.
So that's really good.
We are neighbors.
Yeah. And you have your son with you.
And what's your name?
I'm Jonah.
It's Jonah.
He's standing away as a waste.
Maybe a bit shy.
So what do you think of a Linux Fest?
So far so good.
Really enjoying it and having a great time.
It's nice to have a Linux Fest.
That's close.
I mean, we do have it in Portland.
We have the OSCon and we have Open Source Bridge,
which are great ones to go to.
But this is my son's first Fest.
So we're going to bring him up and introduce him to the Geekery
that all happens here.
Yeah.
What have you seen you like so far?
Oh, gosh.
Just meeting people.
Actually meeting faces of people that I've talked to online a lot.
It's kind of fun to put a face with a person.
You know, you speak online.
Right.
A lot of great talks regarding everything from Wireshark to
what was one about dystopia yesterday.
That was fun.
A lot of fun on dystopia and to utopia.
It was a good talk.
We had a really good time with that.
Yeah.
What do you think of the exhibit hall here?
It's nice.
It's nice.
There's a lot more exhibits than I had thought there was going to be.
And they managed to put them very successfully into a small area.
So did you pick up a lot of swag?
Oh, we did.
We have lots of swag.
I've got a daughter at home that wanted some stickers and some stuff.
So we've been, we've, we've, we've piled on some extra stickers for her.
Very good.
So tell us a little bit about yourself and what you do in Portland.
Yeah, yeah.
I run a, my own company called Abando Computing.
And I do manage services for small to mid-sized businesses who need,
who, you know, have the desire to have an IT person,
but don't have the financial reasons or the needs to have somebody on staff full-time.
You know?
So then that's where they will contract with me to come in and do everything
from server management, network management, all the way down to just desktops.
And, you know, keeping things, you know, changing out mice if need be.
Yeah, very good.
And you also are the man behind the curtain on a show?
I am.
I am.
If you're ever in Linux for the, if you ever watch the Linux for the rest of us on Tuesday nights live with
Dorodar Geek and Cody Cooper, then, and you're in the IRC chat room,
I'm usually in there as well.
And I'll be the one putting the links in there.
And you can find me, IRC, I'm mass kill.
So some people have known me by my handle mask kill on the IRC.
I mean, I'm on the pod nuts and the Geeks reforms as well.
So those are fun.
Yeah, very good.
So what are you planning on doing today?
Today we're going to catch the Brian Lunduke.
Lunduke?
Yeah.
We're going to catch his talk.
We got a chance to meet him yesterday.
And just a great guy.
I'm going to hit it off.
So we're going to go sit on both of his talks and just watch him.
I think it would be great experience for my son to hear his comedy and that.
So I'm looking forward to that.
Okay, anything else you want to tell the HPR audience?
No, I just have a great time.
I love HPR and they have a great time listening to it.
So we'll be looking forward to you make a contribution yourself to HPR.
I should.
I should.
I don't listen to it and I need to be a part of it.
Yeah, very good.
And what about you, Jonah?
What do you plan on doing today?
Go to the talks with my dad.
Pick up some extra stuff.
I don't know.
We kind of go along this weekend.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you very much.
Okay, I'm here with.
Benjamin Karenza.
And who are you with, Benjamin?
I'm with Mozilla reps.
Okay, and I see your booth here.
You have some swag here.
And what are you telling us?
We're promoting for Mozilla.
So I'm here today promoting the Mozilla Web Forward project,
which is an open innovation program to help incubate and accelerate open source projects
and companies that have products that are open source.
And also I'm promoting Firefox OS.
We have a handset here today and just showing that off to attendees at Linux OS Northwest.
How much interest has there been in the Firefox OS?
There's been a tremendous amount of interest this weekend.
I'd say that one out of three people have actually asked us upfront about Firefox OS
without us engaging them on that.
There's been a lot of people asking where they can get a phone.
And a lot of interest in checking out.
They really like the speed of the platform.
And when will Firefox OS be available or people put on their phones?
So right now we do have a public image that you can get in the Mozilla Wiki.
It has links to the repositories and allows you to compile a build on a Galaxy Nexus family device.
And you can also purchase a phone from one of Mozilla's OEM partners.
They're called Geeks Phone and they're based in Spain, but they ship internationally.
So what system would Geeks Phone work with in the United States?
So currently I believe the only support is T-Mobile.
But Mozilla is also partnered with Sprint.
So there's a very good likelihood since Sprint is US-based that we'll see a phone on Sprint here in the coming year.
Okay, and you have anything else you want to share with the HBR audience?
Just check out Firefox for Android.
And if you're not using Firefox for desktop right now, go ahead and give that a try.
And definitely check out Firefox OS.
Okay, and I'll just ask you real quick where are you from and how can people find you on the Internet?
So I'm based out of Portland, Oregon.
And on on Twitter and my Twitter handle is BKERENSA.
Okay, real good. Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Okay, I'm here with Larry, the crunch bank guy whose name I don't know how to spell.
What's up, Larry?
It's Larry Kaffirro.
Yeah, and I'm Larry, the crunch bank guy.
I've been called a lot worse.
Thank you.
Not too much.
It's been a great show, actually.
He appeared in Bellingham, Washington for Linuxcess, Northwest.
As I may have told you last year, I really enjoyed the show a lot.
And I'd actually walk here from California to make it here because it's a really outstanding show in these guys.
And all volunteer staff do a great job.
So we're happy to be here.
And we have our crunch bank booth that's going pretty well.
And it's a great show.
Shoulder to shoulder, isn't it here?
It is, yeah.
In classes.
Yeah, it is.
And it's interesting.
I should mention that Bellingham Technical College just did a lot of renovations here.
So the space is actually a lot nicer.
And the classrooms are bigger.
And I haven't tried out the speaking part yet.
Because the only presentation is today.
But I'm looking forward to speaking with the new equipment they have up there.
Yeah.
And then how much interest is there in crunch bank of the Linux Fest?
We've been getting some pretty good response.
Last year we were getting the response like, what's crunch bank?
And now some, you know, a lot of people know what it is now.
And are going like, hmm, crunch bank.
So it's getting better.
Yeah.
And then where would people find the image for crunch bank if they want to download an ISO?
Oh, sure.
They would go to crunchbang.org and click on the download button.
And you have an option of 32 or 64 bit.
And you can get it there.
If you're here at the show, you can just come by the booths.
We still have DVDs left.
And I don't want to take them home.
Very good.
Yeah.
I brought my notebook.
I don't know if we'll get a chance.
But I'm probably going to install crunch bank on the Elmini 10.
Oh, excellent.
Excellent.
So we'll get you set up there.
Okay.
Yeah.
Very good.
And I read your blog when you were traveling.
Did you make it by Corvallis to the open source?
Oh, I, yes.
Sadly, I didn't.
Lance Alperton, who's here.
And he's doing like three talks today, or three talks during the course of the show.
He left before I had a chance to get there.
So we didn't stop by that time.
My daughter, who was with me, and is usually always with me at shows like this.
She wanted to meet some friends in Beaverton.
So we made that side trip instead.
And that's, you know, right outside of Portland.
And, and got here a little later than I expected.
But, but it was fine.
It was great.
It's a great trip coming up here in the Pacific Northwest.
So yeah, we enjoy it.
So it'd be great if we could have Phillip and Becky over here, huh?
You know, I'm working on that.
Believe it or not.
Yeah.
Actually, I could say we try to get flow up to come to scale this year.
But he had a schedule and conflict.
But, and I hope I'm not, you know, forcing his hand by you saying this.
But I don't think he has a scheduling conflict for 2014.
So we may arrange to have him come out for that.
Do you think if Becky knows this, that it's going to work here?
Oh, well, that's probably the big hurdle.
But, you know, if she comes along, yeah, I think, I think it'll be okay.
So we would have that set up.
Right.
Listen.
But definitely we'll have to have to have that arranged.
So as long as I've got you here, let's, um,
this is Leading Fest Northwest.
But let's just talk a little bit about scale.
I know I've never been there.
Is the show worth going to?
Oh, absolutely.
Um, like this show, uh, scale is a all volunteer, uh, you know, based show.
It's everybody who works on it, uh, is all, you know, all volunteers their time.
I'm the publicity, uh, chair of the, you know, publicity committee.
And, uh, what we do essentially is, uh, for the last 12 years, it'll be, um,
or last 11 years, I should say, this will be the 12th coming up next year.
Uh, you know, we've been putting together this show.
And it's grown to, you know, like epic proportions.
It's now up to about 2400 people a year.
And it's all, you know, it's all volunteer run at the Hilton.
And it's, it's, it's, it's just fantastic.
Um, and I, I, I, I love Oskon.
It's a great show.
But, you know, you can tell that they're sort of, uh, kind of a corporate feel to it,
where, you know, you have a lot of big companies and heavy hitters there.
And, uh, scale and, and look, clinics, Fest Northwest.
And some of the other smaller shows are more, you know, personable,
where you have people who are, you know, actual, you know, the actual people
who are doing the, the programs and things along those lines, uh, in the booths.
And, um, not to take away, again, not to take away from Oskon,
because it's, it's a great show.
And they do a lot of, you know, a Riley does a lot of great things for the FOSS,
the wider FOSS community.
But, uh, you know, shows like scale and shows like Linux, Fest Northwest.
You know, a really kind of the backbone of the FOSS.
And, um, and it's, I'm just proud to be a part of, you know, both of these shows.
Yeah, I wrote that.
Well, thank you very much for talking to me.
Okay.
Sure.
Um, well, maybe be expecting you to, uh, as publicity director for scale,
to post up an HPR episode.
Oh, absolutely.
In fact, we can do that when I get back to, to Santa Cruz.
Yeah, very good.
Thank you, Larry.
All right.
Thanks, David.
Yeah, I'm here at the orange file system.
Orange FS booth with Amy Cannon.
And where are you from, Amy?
South Carolina.
Really?
That's nice.
Yes.
Very far away.
You miss it or not?
Sometimes.
You're going back though, right?
Yes.
So, tell us about orange FS.
Orange FS is a parallel virtual file system.
It started in the 1990s and it was actually called PVFS.
And Omnibond, our company, took it over.
And what they did is they renamed it orange FS because now we have dedicated, um,
developers to work on orange FS and make more releases and update the code.
So, who would be using orange FS?
We have many universities that use orange FS with their researchers.
And what they're doing is using their math equations.
We have people in the financial industries that like to use orange FS as well.
And we have a lot of people that like to use it in media and entertainment.
How can people contact orange FS or find out more about it?
Orange FS is 100% open source.
So, they can go to omnibond.com or they can go to orangefs.org and they can download it straight from our website.
Very good.
Do you want to tell anything else about orange FS before we call it good here?
Um, just we want to let people know that it is 100% open source.
That you can go straight to our website and download it.
And we do also offer commercial great support for people that do need that service.
Okay, very good.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Yeah, I'm here with Nathan James in the dice booth.
Dice.com, you were the largest job board for tech.
Wow.
Yeah.
And I see outside there's a great big bus.
Huge bus.
We're doing a six month grassroots tour.
We're going to hackathons and meetups and then big conferences and conventions like this.
And just getting in touch with people saying, hey, you know, we've got a service to offer which is free.
Uh, which you can come and you can just lurk around for jobs anonymously or you actually post your resume.
We have a salary survey so you can find out whether you're earning as much as you should be earning.
We have forums for specific platforms like Ruby on rails and Linux, etc.
So you can find your community, your interest area and talk with other members.
So it's really great.
Yeah.
And so I see this.
There's a t-shirt thing going on here.
What's that about?
We got lots of t-shirts.
So we have some pre-painted t-shirts that we give to people who register.
And then people can also come up with their own saying for their t-shirt.
And we make a custom on the spot.
We've got very low technology here with an inkjet printer and transfer paper and a heat press.
And boom, in 20 seconds, we've got your own custom t-shirt.
That sounds real good.
So I want to know if you've heard of hacker public radio before.
I have not.
So now you know all of them.
You can get a whole of us at hackerpublicradio.org.
Cool.
It's a community podcast.
So we'd love to have you make a posting there.
Yeah.
And to contribute a show.
Okay.
So am I going to be able to give a hacker public radio t-shirt out of this?
Absolutely.
Okay.
You're ready.
As soon as that platen heats up.
Okay.
I'll come back by.
All right.
Good.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Somebody is touring that music off.
So I'm at Limx Automation.
And these are the beer guys.
So tell us what's going on.
Tell me your name first.
My name is Ryan Hodges.
Kirk Forsberg.
And last night there was a party and you guys supplied the beer.
And the craft soda.
Yeah.
So did you run out?
We ran out of a few things.
The ginger ale went.
The porter went after about an hour.
Yeah.
And then we blew the pale.
That was 15.5 gallons of pale.
And I'm sure the IP is really light.
So you used Linux to brew your beers after that.
Exactly.
And I see a lot of equipment around here.
Tell me a little bit about some of this.
So this is our eight channel module.
This is the previous revision of it.
This has four transistors for switching DC devices.
Two triax for switching AC devices.
And it has two channels of input.
And what this does is the brew stand behind us.
Three channels control the top burner.
Three channels control the middle burner.
And it heats up water for making beer on the top.
The hot liquor tank.
And then it controls the temperature of the heated water.
Then we take water from there into the mash tonne,
which we left that at home.
But that goes here.
It controls the temperature of the mash.
And it recirculates it intermittently.
Well, any time there's heat applied directly to it,
the pump turns on and recirculates it.
And then we transfer it down to here to the boil kettle and boil it.
And then after we're done with the beer on the brew stand,
we transfer it to our fermentation chamber,
which has similar hardware that controls the temperature
of the fermentation vessels with a water cooling system.
So all automated with the Linux.
And we can log in remotely and monitor
or change the temperatures if we need to.
You're building this all yourself, huh?
Yeah, I designed all the hardware.
It's still rather alpha.
But we're hoping that we have some release candidates
soon. All the hardware designs are going to be open.
And we're looking for software developers,
who can help us put together a little bit more polished software.
Right now it's just running on batch scripts.
But we're hoping to put together a web front end for it.
And then all the software, of course,
would be open source as well.
And the back end daemon to do all the real work.
Yeah, of the controlling portion of it.
So where can people find you on the internet
and get ahold of you?
LinuxAutomation.org.
We're also looking for web developers.
Okay, so there's a contact email on that page.
Yeah, we'll work for beer.
Yeah, come on.
Anybody who can code for beer,
we have beer for compensation.
Or soda.
Or soda too.
Yeah, we're in CTAC at the moment.
Okay, very good.
So we're seeing you around,
and you can check HBR out,
hack the public radio for your episode.
Cool, that's good.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot.
I'm at the Red Hat booth.
Fedora booth.
Fedora booth.
Okay, so it is.
I'm at the Fedora booth.
We have?
Ian Weller.
I'm an intern at Red Hat working on the Fedora project.
Okay, and you're here at Linux Fashion North West,
and what can you tell me about what's going on here tonight?
Well, we've got Fedora 18 DVDs,
and we've got stickers and stuff,
and we've been answering people's questions about Fedora.
We've also been sharing the booth
with the OpenShift project at Red Hat,
and it's been pretty good so far today.
Okay, and we have, you're from OpenShift, and what's your name?
I'm Diane Muller.
I'm with the OpenShift Origin project.
It's an open source project that's being supported by Red Hat
to deliver the next generation of platform as a service,
as an open source project,
and it upstream feeds OpenShift online,
which we're signing people up for today,
and OpenShift Enterprise,
which is the on-premise offering from Red Hat.
Okay, where can we find information about OpenShift?
You can go to OpenShift.com,
or if you want the code, which is always cool,
go to OpenShift.github.io,
download a VM there, start playing with it right away,
read the docs if you read manuals,
or go right straight in and start contributing to the community today.
Okay, and anything else you want to share about your booth here,
your projects?
Well, it's been pretty nice today.
It's been pretty popular.
We have these interesting USB keys
with bottle openers on them,
they're OpenShift branded,
so that's been quite the draw today.
But, I mean, a lot of people have been just coming by,
talking about Fedora,
talking about OpenShift and Red Hat,
and it's been great.
Yeah, and this DVD with all of the releases of Fedora Night 18
has been like the hot draw, too.
So, we're not wrapping them off,
you can come and get them for free now.
So, tell us a little bit more about that.
Well, what we've got here is a DVD,
and it has four of our desktop environments on it,
live that you could try out before installing.
It's got known KDE, XFCE, and LXDE,
and it's a dual-layer DVD,
because we had to fit that much data on it,
but it's great.
It's a way to try out all of our well-supported desktop environments
in Fedora,
and figure out what you want to use
before you even install it.
So, I can grab one of those today.
You can grab one of those today and try them all out.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I'm with the director of operations from...
Isaac Partners.
And your name is...
I'm Ted Epson.
Tell me about your project.
Well, we're actually a consulting firm in the security space.
We work with software vendors, software engineers,
looking for various tools,
and we're looking for various tools,
and we're looking for various tools,
and we're looking for various tools,
software engineers,
looking for vulnerabilities in their software.
We work all the way up and down the stack,
doing a lot of penetration testing
and code review of web applications,
operating systems.
We've been doing a lot of embedded work recently,
working with set-top boxes for telecom companies,
and working with handset manufacturers for mobile phones,
looking at things like their custom bootloaders,
firmware, and so on.
Okay, and where you're located?
We're headquartered in San Francisco,
but we have a Seattle office,
an office in New York,
and one in Austin as well.
Okay, and people can find out a bit more about you, where?
At www.icecpartners.com.
Thank you, Ted.
Thank you.
What are we talking about?
Yeah.
I'm at the Aqua booth with...
Michael Krause?
Yeah.
Are you free, veteran?
Where are you people from?
I'm from Portland, Oregon.
Okay, I'm one of my neighbors, and you?
I live in Boston.
I work out of the Boston office.
Very good.
And so, Aqua is here at Linux Desk Northwest
and what's going on with Aqua?
Wow, just the explosive growth,
and a major talent hunting stage
to keep up with all the new clients and opportunities,
and also just building partnerships
on the west side out of Portland in our new office there,
which has been really exciting,
and excited to be here with Linux Fest.
We're a Linux shop from a hosting perspective,
and just having a blast.
Okay, and so, first year,
Aqua is pretty tied into Drupal, right?
We are.
We are.
We're a big Drupal fan,
and we support the Drupal community in a big way,
and most of us are part of that community.
And so, is there a job available in Drupal?
Big time.
It's a hungry, hungry market.
We pulled in around 70 people first quarter,
and we have lots and lots of opportunities at Aqua.
Very good.
How would one get started using Drupal?
My advice would be to go to Drupal.org or Aqua.com
and download the app.
It's free.
Of course, it's open source.
And there's also training modules out there,
DrupalizeMe, and also build a module,
and they're a great place to start.
Okay.
And something's going to be happening this May in Portland.
What's that?
I'll let you talk.
So, DrupalCon Portland is made one-eat through the 24th.
A large part of the Drupal community will be there,
respecting, like, between 3,000 and 4,000 attendees.
A lot of the Drupal celebrities, if you will.
Dries will be there, and chicks,
and a couple of the other maintainers.
It should be really exciting,
and we're excited for the growth in Portland.
The Drupal Association is now there,
so we'll see, and we're all really excited
and hope you can come.
Okay, so registration is still open?
Yeah.
I believe so.
I mean, as of today, I haven't checked, but it was...
Check it out online.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, very good.
Thank you for being here,
and be looking forward to seeing you around again.
Thank you.
Okay, I bet Leno.com booth, yeah?
Peter?
And what's your name?
Alex.
What's Leno at all about?
We're a virtual private server provider.
We built a platform based on the Zen hypervisor.
We put a nice web interface on top of that,
and then we manage the hypervisor
and the underlying hardware,
freeing you up to deal with the software, your applications,
and not having to worry about hardware and data center concerns.
Okay, where's your company located?
Our offices are in Galloway, New Jersey.
We have servers available in Tokyo, Japan,
Fremont, California, Dallas, Texas,
Atlanta, Georgia, Newark, New Jersey, and London, England.
You know your stuff, don't you?
I've said that a lot in the last day, and I have.
Okay.
And where can people find out more about Leno?
Main page, Leno.com.
There's going to be a nice big signup at the top,
and across the top, a nice big signup at the middle of the page.
Further up to that, we're going to have some links available.
We've got a wiki, official documentation available,
API documentation on how to use our platform outside of the web interface
for custom scripting and stuff like that, for deployments,
as well as basically any other information you want to know about the company,
right at the top of Leno.com.
Okay, thank you for being at Linux Fest Northwest.
You're welcome. Have a nice day.
I'm at the free BSD booth.
Is that right?
Yeah.
With?
Annie?
Yeah, Annie John.
What can you tell me about free BSD?
Free BSD is a Unix-like operating, open source operating system.
Okay.
And we have disks for free NAS and PCBSD.
PCBSD is a desktop version of free BSD.
Our disk has three different installs, PCBSD,
which is the desktop version, free BSD,
and also true OS, which is PCBSD for servers.
And free NAS is a open source storage appliance,
embedded storage appliance for based on free BSD.
Okay, where can people find more information?
They can find more information going to PCBSD.org,
or free NAS.org, or of course free BSD.
Very good. I see the horns. Are you running out?
Yeah, we started running out yesterday.
How many did you run to the best?
250 or so, yeah.
Okay. So much right?
Yeah, yeah.
I'm sure Bella Cam is overrun with horns.
Yeah, yeah. We also run 250 or so stickers of each.
And we're running out too.
Okay. Well, thank you for being here.
And you can listen to hacker Bubby Gradio.
Okay.
Here you are.
Presentation.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yeah, thanks.
I'm at the HDR F-SF table that we're sharing with Matt Woodward.
And what's going on, Max?
Just hanging out at Linux Fest that the free software foundation table
I'm talking to people about software freedom.
Is it been okay sharing the table with the HBR this year?
No, you guys are terrible.
No, I'm kidding.
No, it's been fine. No, it's actually worked out well.
So yeah, I appreciate you guys covering for me when I have to step away here and there.
And yeah, I've done, I hope, have reciprocated.
And yeah, it's been good.
So what's the mission of the free software foundation?
The basic mission of the free software foundation is to promote
and educate people about software freedom.
Because especially these days with all the new gadgets that people just pick up
and don't even think about what's running on them or what they can and can't do with them.
It's important for users to understand when you buy a device,
what you're getting yourself into, what people,
what the people who sell you the device are controlling as far as your information
and as far as what you can and can't do with that device.
And the leader of the free software foundation is?
Richard Stalin.
He founded it.
I don't have the date in my head, but it's been about 30 years ago now.
Right.
Poke interviewed him on HPR.
I think you told me that you didn't have to listen to that.
No, I definitely am going to check that one out. That sounded like an interesting one.
I do have a good interview there.
And to become a member of the FSF is, how do we do that?
You can go to fsf.org to learn more and become an associate member.
And it's a taxidup old donation.
And you get some good member benefits.
You get a bootable membership part, which is pretty neat.
And discounts on fsf merchandise.
And there's an annual member event as well.
Okay, and I noticed you have some things you're giving away here at the booth,
and some things that you're selling.
Yep.
And the things you sell go to support the FSF?
Yes, absolutely.
And any of the merchandise t-shirts and books and so on,
the proceeds go to support the free software foundation.
Yeah, and so have you been successful?
Yes, I think it's down to about three t-shirts.
Sold out of almost all the books.
So we've been doing well.
Real good.
Oh, there you go.
The book's just sold out.
Actually, I'm proud he was helping me at the HBR table
and he was running match tables selling fsf.
Remember, we'll be at the end now.
Thank you, Matt.
It's been a pleasure being here and sharing the table with you.
Yeah, thank you.
Wondering by the HBR booth is,
Ross Brunson, the director of member services
for the Linux Professional Institute.
And Russ wanted to know how he can contribute
to Hacker Public Radio.
Yeah.
So we're telling him he needs to put some audio content up
and we'll get it posted.
Okay.
Tell us about the LPI.
So the Linux Professional Institute started out
as a testing organization years ago.
It does the SIS admin exams for Linux system administrators
in the field.
Linux Foundation does kernel programming and software
and we do the SIS admins.
We've grown into a workforce development institute recently.
We'll ask a couple of years and I've just gotten done
with a tour in Canada, the Futures and IT conference
at British Columbia Institute of Technology
and Camuson College over on Victoria Island.
It had really good turnout and wanted to make sure
that I got to come down to Linux Fest Northwest
where we're going to be given a session today
about get a fantastic career in Linux and open source.
Very good.
And so people can find out about LPIware.
LPI.org, hit the site.
You'll notice it's organized so that you can find out
what the Linux certifications are, then hit exam preparation.
And if you want to, if you're in a different area than the US
or wherever you are, hit the International Affiliate section
and find somebody near you.
Okay.
So how would people study to take the exam?
Well, we have three main tracks that people do.
They'll do a self-study for free.
They'll get the resources off the web and off of our site
and they'll do kind of a low and slow,
typically, to take them a few months to get it all set up.
I always recommend that everybody start with the objectives.
We've thoughtfully formatted them so you can tick them off.
There's a little checkbox right next to everything that you need to know.
So by the time you get all those checked off,
you should be ready to take an exam.
The other way is you can use one of our solution partners.
So if you hit the site and look under Partnerships,
you'll see that we have a number of ways that you can, you know,
get a class or an online course or, you know, exam prep.
That's the other pieces.
Hit the LPI Marketplace.
Go to the site and a little marketplace to tab on the top left.
And that's where I personally have curated all the things
are the latest, greatest, and most up today.
Some people have books in the market and Amazon that are 10 years old
and you don't want to study one of those because you won't pass these objectives.
So hit that and take a look at it.
We don't mind if you buy somewhere else, if you get a better price,
we'd actually like you to.
But go to the LPI Marketplace to see what's the latest version
of all those books and exam courses.
Then to take the exam they're given on location somewhere?
We, right now, you can give you Linux essentials.
Your professor or your instructor can give you Linux essentials
in the classroom or you can take our exams at any Pearson View Testing Center
on the face of the planet.
Okay.
And so, where do you live?
Yeah, I live in Paradise Valley, Montana.
Is there any game, big game out there?
There's a few big game and you can, you can get one one of two ways.
You can either go shoot one during hunting season or you can run one down.
Either is popular, apparently.
That sounds like a very nice place to live.
It is.
Thank you very much.
Thanks very much, David.
Yeah, I'm at the G-slug booth.
We have Valerie Zimmerman.
And I met you Valerie on the IRC channel, LFNW for Lynxfest Northwest.
Right.
I got a little hint there at all.
Thanks.
How to use the IRC going away correctly and maybe you don't remember that.
But I finally figured that out last night.
Oh, good.
So you will not have any more problems with me.
You will be legal on free note.
It was an immorality personal problem with me.
And I do want to make clear that I'm here for Ubuntu Washington.
Yeah, okay.
We're split in a group booth this year.
They were very generous.
Oh, really good.
Lynxfest ran out of booth space, which is, yeah, that's a good problem to have.
We had the same opportunity with the FSF.
We're sharing a table with them.
So that worked out real good and we had a good time there.
Two great organizations.
Yeah.
So tell us a little bit about the Ubuntu.
Oh, Ubuntu Washington.
Yes.
Well, our group is not super active, although all of us are super active and that's the problem.
G-slug meets monthly and they are varying their meetings around the Seattle area.
So they'll meet North, South, East, West and give everybody a chance to make it out to the meetings.
The Ubuntu Washington mostly communicate by email and in our IRC channel, which is on free note.
Okay.
And you also personally do some work with Katie.
Is that right?
Yes.
I'm in the community working group and I also do some documentation and other community work.
I'm also administrator for Google Summer of Code and Google Code in, which is for high school students.
Great programs.
Yeah, it sounds like you're very active in an open source community then.
I spend all the time I can.
Yeah.
Well, good.
Your booth looks real nice.
Why, thank you.
Yeah, but I like the layout here.
You have some cards that have a question on the front and I'm assuming there's an answer on the back.
I'm not sure.
Oh, there's a good answers to your Ubuntu questions.
Askubuntu.com.
So this one says, why is Ubuntu 11 for switching to Unity?
And then so you can get the answer by going there.
Or talking to us.
Right.
Which I don't use Unity.
I'm a Kubuntu person.
But their idea was that they want a single interface for the users on all platforms.
And that includes TV, tablets, telephones, desktops, your refrigerator, whatever.
Yeah, and that sounds great.
And I think that's the way software and devices are going.
And so I'm glad for the Ubuntu is doing the contribution to the open source community.
Right.
It's open source.
And there's a number of flavors of Ubuntu.
If you don't like Unity, there's still GNOME.
Ubuntu.
There's Kubuntu.
There's Zubuntu, which is using.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
XSE.
And Lubuntu is rather new, which is using LXDE.
So a lot of flavors of Ubuntu.
Exactly.
There's the studio.
There's Edubuntu.
There's great stuff in the ecosystem.
And we're friendly with everybody.
We like our open sews of friends and our Fedora friends.
Right.
And your hacker public radio friends.
And our hacker public radio friends.
Yeah.
Thank you.
I see.
I'm putting you on a spot here, but I see the Ubuntu women project.
Are you involved in that?
Yes, I am.
I think it's really a great place for women and men who support women in free software.
Trade ideas.
Make women in particular aware of ways to contribute that they weren't aware of before.
I mean, in Ubuntu, there's like community councils and developer councils.
And people who are willing to do that, Scott work, that not everybody has a chance to do.
Of course, there's always coding, but not all of us are coders.
Some of us are scissored men.
Some of us are technical writers.
Some of us like community work.
So there's a place for all of us to contribute to free software.
Yeah.
So I know I'm putting you on the spot again, but what are the barriers women face
than getting involved in the community?
Bad behavior.
Okay.
We in general have a little less time, less free time, and if we go into an IRC channel
and we're asked about our sexual being rather than how we can contribute,
there's a lot of people who just part and you'll never see them in that channel again.
Who has time for that?
And it's the same with any venue.
If you're, if you, you know, women walk into a lug meeting and all of a sudden they're just glombed onto or ignored,
either is bad.
Instead of just treated like another person, you know, most people are just like that was unpleasant.
And I mean, there's a few of us that are tough and we can put up with the sexism.
But if you want a vibrant open community, then you have to welcome everybody.
Yeah, and I agree with that that men or others need to treat other people in a way.
That makes them feel comfortable.
Sure.
I mean, there's women with bad behavior too.
But if you call out your bad behavior and you reward good behavior and welcome newcomers and talk about how you welcome newcomers,
that's a lot of people say, well, it's, you know, they can find their way, blah, blah, blah.
But women don't necessarily have time to search out all the avenues.
So all your channels make sure that you put out welcoming messages.
Okay.
And Ubuntu has a code of conduct that pretty much encompasses that.
So does Katie.
Yes.
And I know some people complain about that, but it is nice to have that code of conduct to know what's expected and what can make the community better.
I wouldn't be in a place.
Actually, one of the reasons I come here is there is a code of conduct here.
So, yeah.
And I've never had any, you know, any problems here.
So it's just been a wonderful experience.
Yeah.
Thank you, Valerie.
And I know you're reading the booth next to us.
And you did get some of our duct tape.
So I will.
Thank you again for your help.
Yeah.
We'll be probably getting something from you at some time in the future.
Thank you very much.
Bye then.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday and Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share alike, details or license.
