Episode: 1489
Title: HPR1489: Setting up a Raspberry Pi and RaspBMC
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1489/hpr1489.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 04:06:17

---

CHAIR POWELL
Okay, so today we are going to set up a Raspberry Pi to run RaspMC, the XBMC version for
Raspberry Pi and I'm here with my friend Matt and he and I are going to go through what
we got in the box.
Actually he's going to tell us what we got in the box, so what we got in the box.
We have the Raspberry Pi Model B, still in the box ready to go, Wi-Fi adapter, a little
tiny, we do have a clear case, something to store the little Raspberry Pi in.
Is it this is an out of fruit box?
I cannot remember now.
It's pretty cool, it's got like a little flip top, it's clear case, it's got the etched
Raspberry logo, that's pretty cool, I like that.
Yeah, they have a few on there and it looks like it's, because they were actually almost
in your flat package and it had tape on front and back, so yeah, it looks like it's a
way cotton, you know, a little laser cutter, yeah, laser cutter, yeah, that's pretty cool.
Yeah, pretty neat idea for a most company to get in something like that.
Yeah, of course we need an HDMI cable, a little USB cable to plug it up to the TV before
the wall, here's a little adapter for it.
Oh, for the power, oh okay, that's enough for power, okay, got you.
Alright, then we do have our little four-port USB hub to hook up something extra, make sure
what are else on that, extra hard drives or whatever.
Yeah, yeah.
Next and all, I'll start out with the one hard drive, the right half full of DVD ISOs
and we're ready to play through the XBMC.
Cool.
And we have a little Bluetooth keyboard.
Yeah, this Bluetooth keyboard is pretty cool.
I mean, it's like a little hacker board with a touchpad and everything and controls.
Yeah, I think that's the Op-Pass port.
There's a few on there, there's like the re-version Op-Pass port and then a couple of other
ones, and this one had like a few hundred reviews and it was like four out of five stars
say.
And I liked that it was Bluetooth, it would be easier to...
Yeah, so it's got like a, are these forward and back, more of those will be able to control
the...
I'm hoping.
That would be really cool.
That would be really cool.
That would be really cool.
And one, you know, just like one little reviewer said, works with Raspberry Pi and that's
not the most infill, I don't see, but yeah, it's going to flip well.
Very good.
Yeah.
And then we have a couple of SD cards.
Oh, yep, SD cards.
We'll figure out which one, we'll use the, oh yeah, send this, usually really good about
working well with the Pi.
Cool.
Others, I don't know what deal is with it exactly, I haven't read it right into it.
Some SD cards don't work for whatever reason, but whatever.
Yep.
That works good.
Cool.
And we have some aluminum heat sinks.
Aluminum heat sinks.
Not sure how hot this thing gets run off of USB, but you know, if anything, it kind of looks
cool on the board.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cool.
Alright, well this sounds exciting.
And I brought along a, an extra monitor to plug up to get started with and USB keyboard
and USB mouse.
And I have a VGA to HDMI converter.
And it works pretty well, I mean, of course, it's not real great quality, but it gets the
job done for what we're going to do to get it up and running to the point where we can
plug it up to the TV.
Alright, let's start putting this puppy together.
Awesome.
Time to crack up in the box.
Alright, so it gets a little crack up in the pie box or got the box in our little static
bag in here.
Yeah.
It's just amazing how tiny this thing is.
There's a really good art client read it all in a link for Matt Magazine on the guy that
makes the boards.
Yeah.
It took over the project to make the boards.
It is really interesting.
I know it's garnered a lot of attention to UK, it's basically, yeah, it's pretty cool.
Um, go ahead and put our heat sinks in if you want it first, I guess.
These little heat sinks already have some adhesive built onto the back of it so you just
have to kind of pull the tape off and just place them on the chip.
There's three in here, but I think we're only going to use two.
I'm not sure what the third one would go on.
I don't know.
I have to rip this bag.
They're just like little, tiny heat sinks like on a computer.
Yeah.
They're really fun.
I think I've ever seen these before.
Yeah, I was just flipping through the pages, looking at all the accessories for the
pie and having to see a few of these advertised.
Um, yeah, I guess obviously the big one's going to go on that chip and I would say that
one's going to go on here, but this third one, I don't know.
I always just pop along and we'll put and see if they will put a little top of that one.
Yep.
Yeah.
Yep.
Let's see.
Which one is the bag one?
I guess.
It will be going in this way.
Oh, yes.
And you know, I'll put that little case together with the other minute steps together.
Yeah.
And you can take it apart.
You can see how like the, um, that's it.
You can push them.
Yeah, push them down.
You can take it apart.
All right.
We might have to pop one side off to get actually the, uh, ports through there.
And it was one of those things where I said, oh, I got to do something with the pie.
Well, it means I put the case together.
Let me put the case together.
I'm trying to get this, uh, tape off the back of this heat sink.
There it goes.
I'm going to make sure I get it on there first time, properly.
I, uh, I did an interview for a HPR a while back with, um, a guy that does a lot of
programming.
Well, he does some programming with the Raspberry Pi.
Oh, no.
And he just, I mean, that was, he said, you know, this was the greatest thing for Linux
that, you know, that moving this way, just the general being able to just program anything
for the machine.
And he's, well, like he said, if you screw it up, it's 35 bucks.
And by another one, it's not like you don't have to trash everything, you can actually
just reuse the SD card and everything.
Oh, that's true.
And he had a lot of this stuff I actually had sitting around.
I've already had the HDMI cables.
I had the little, you know, the USB cables, the SD cards.
So I really only had to buy the pie in the case.
All right.
That looks really cool.
I'm getting on the straight.
There.
Okay.
That one's on straight.
All right.
What do you, like I said, I think we're probably going to have to pop one of the sides
off of this box too.
Yeah.
Slotted in there.
Awesome.
Oh, I see.
The back of this can't pop off.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then the top is just filled in.
It's just got little pins.
Cool.
It's actually all this together.
If you want to slide the little board in.
There.
There.
Cool.
There.
Cool.
There.
Cool.
There.
Cool.
Oh, that pops in.
Let's see if this little pad in.
Looks like we're all centered up.
So I'm going to put that on first.
A little bit of experience.
I put it together the other night.
I put the top off.
Yeah.
Take it back apart.
Yeah.
It's just like doing this whole media center thing since I've done it once.
I know what I did to screw up and then there.
So we hopefully don't make those same mistakes.
All right.
Pie has been inserted.
That looks really cool.
It's amazing.
That's a computer.
Yeah.
Amazing.
Amazing.
All right.
Yeah.
Exactly.
So we're going to hook up the USB keyboard and mouse and monitor and start installing.
All right.
So what we're going to do is we get the SD card plugged in and we also have our downloaded
earlier noobs.
Noobs.
So all we have to do is just copy noobs onto the SD card and boot.
We'll install Resp and C.
All right.
So now we got noobs copied over to the SD card and got the USB keyboard and mouse plugged
up, got the monitor plugged up, got the SD card plugged in.
I guess we're ready for some power.
All right.
Let's plug in our power.
There we are.
And I see some LEDs.
Beautiful thing.
Yes.
And it is.
There's the first screen.
Nice little rainbow colors.
So noobs.
Well, if you know, noobs is, it has all of the OS as I think that we'll run on the Raspberry
Pi.
So it's got Rasbian, which is devian for Raspberry Pi.
It's got Arch.
It's got open.
Open a lick.
It's got the door.
Oh, it's like I've heard a lot about.
Yeah.
But Rasbian, C, Risco S, Rasbian with a boot to scratch.
This is like a kids way of learning to programs so you kind of have these built building blocks.
So that's something you might, if you're ever getting that one, you might want to look
at that for your son because it's kind of like, you know, you can drag and drop.
He is.
Yeah.
He's changed his already.
I mean, he's.
Yeah.
It's good.
So we'll just check the little check box for Rasbian, C, and then there's a big button
at the top says install.
Oh, yes.
So.
So installing it to.
Yep.
Hi.
It'll actually, I don't know exactly, it'll overwrite the SD card so it kind of puts everything
in memory and then it writes it to the SD card so everything that we copied onto the SD
card will be gone.
Okay.
That's actually wondering already, if I would have checked that each time on Restore.
No.
Restore it.
Yeah.
Awesome.
And we can change your language down here because right now your keyboard is going to
be so great Britain.
So we want to make sure we change that to U.S. since we are American.
And then the little progress bar is just cranking along and it's beautiful.
So right now we just had a sit and wait and in honor of Clat 2, we will be back with
a copy break.
Sounds good.
All right.
So it's about 75% done but after this we just start doing some more configurations and
stuff.
We got to do a few things.
So Matt's got, how big a hard drive is it?
A terabyte.
Oh.
Okay.
So we got a terabyte of ISOs.
We're going to hook that up to it obviously.
So we got to be able to get into it.
So Matt runs Windows.
So we're going to put a set up, we get a program called Win SCP which is secure copy.
It's kind of like we're going to FTP but it's just going to pull the program just kind
of drag and drop stuff to it.
So you can back up your movies here and then you can see your Raspberry Pi that's actually
in your TV room and just kind of drag and drop it.
No.
Okay.
That's how I do mine.
Yeah.
So we're going to put the hard drive and bring it here.
No.
You can.
I guess.
I mean it would certainly copy faster.
Yeah.
Because when I copy movies, certain stuff over to mine, then it sometimes they could take
like an hour or so.
Yeah.
So usually I just do it at night to say a couple of days.
See it doesn't move right now, about 10, 15 minutes.
Okay.
Well I can actually just have it feed it right to the thing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's funny.
So.
Which actually I'd only have room for, I think 10 more movies on it.
Yep.
Then it's time for another drive.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Because that's going to be the main, yeah.
The main thing I'm going to use my Pi4 is the media center for it.
Yep.
That's cool.
It's.
I have all my DVDs backed up and individually Blu-ray.
So I have to see how I handle Blu-rays.
Yeah, sure.
I'll be interested.
Yeah.
So one thing we need to do, after we get this thing set up and actually boot into it
the first time, we need to get the serial number off of it because we've got to send
that serial number to Raspberry Pi dot orgs, we're going to buy a license to actually run
the ISOs.
It'll run them, but they're real choppy and it's out of sync and it's the biggest issue.
Yep.
Getting the ISOs to work.
Yep.
Now I have a few ISOs and the one ISOs that I have are like workout DVDs, so there's
pretty much just like play.
Yeah.
So there's not really a whole lot to it, so all right.
So OS has been installed successfully.
So.
Click OK.
Yep.
Click OK and it's going to reboot into the first instance of our Raspberry Pi, the
rest of the series.
It's kind of exciting building a little computer like this.
And it's really amazing that this thing is just so small and can do so many things.
You know, it's really cool.
You can actually get you another SD card, load up, nubes on it or whatever, run Raspbian
on it and set it up as like a web server or something like that.
Oh, yeah.
Or even just have a set up with the browser, have a computer at the TV and you can do that.
There's actually there's a, uh, instructables or bigger section.
There's a saw one on there that they actually set one up and you take the Raspberry Pi to
the back of the monitor and had a USB keyboard or a Bluetooth keyboard mouse and you never
saw any of the stuff.
Oh, it's nice.
It was really cool looking.
Exactly.
One of the main advantages of this one because before, you know, you've built a PC or,
you know, a home theater PC and then you have the noise content.
Yeah.
And then the power consumption and, you know, we're trying to be as green as we can and
wow, this thing runs off USB, man, how much greener can we get?
Yeah.
And you know, you can also, like, if you want to, you can always just power this down, plug
up the other SD card with the other OS, but back up and you got something totally different
so it's not like you have to do a whole lot, I mean, the SD card.
You can have two other things laying around to play around with if you need to, what we're
going to score about.
And I do have an old super NES.
Oh.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So maybe we'll have to do another podcast one time with, uh, gutting the NES.
We've got me in it.
Yeah.
Putting the pine inside of it and using it as the case.
Oh.
That would be fun.
Well, huh?
That would be fun.
I saw it when I did it online.
Yeah.
And it was this first time building something, but yeah, he even went and, um, you got adapters
to solder to the boards so that you could use his Nintendo controllers and the whole
turbine with it.
Huh?
Okay.
Look at that.
We got our first menu screen, so what's good?
Wow.
Look.
It's January 1st, 1970.
That's awesome.
We only need to do some time adjusting stuff.
All right.
So first thing we need to do probably is, oh, we're going to go through that, forget about
the stuff.
We're going to go through that, um, language choices and all that good stuff.
So what we have to do now is we're going to reboot and we have to go into a command line
to get the serial number.
All right.
Well, not sure why, but for some reason it just keeps booting right into the GUI when
we're in, right in the middle of the command line, so let's see if we can SSH into it.
So I got a laptop and I got portable putty.
Ah.
Love this.
Portable application.
We're going to try to SSH into it, so it's like a secure shell.
So we're going to see the command line over here, but we're going to be accessing everything.
Okay.
So.
Looks like it's going through a little bit of things right now.
It is.
Well, that might be part of the weirdness that it's doing.
Yeah.
Let's see if we can SSH into it anyway and just see what happens.
So default port 22.
So the first time it pops up, it's going to ask you for the key.
It's like just a cure key so that everybody knows who we are.
Okay.
We'll just go to the PIE.
Default password.
Yep, and there we are.
So very good.
So now we're into it.
So now we can get the serial key that we need to send off to Raspberry Pi.org.
Together with our codec, yeah, exactly.
We'll see.
Kent.
Slash.
Rock.
Slash.
CPU info.
That here at the bottom we got this serial number.
Oh yes, okay.
We can actually just copy that.
And now what we'll have to do is just hop online,
pay the man and a few minutes hopefully
after we get all this updated and all that good stuff,
hopefully we'll have the key and we enter those keys
into a file on the Raspberry Pi.
Okay.
We went to Raspberry Pi.com and bought the
MPEG-2 license key as well as the VC-1 license key.
Those are all paid for.
So we are still SSH into the Pi.
So next, what I would probably do is,
and this kind of be up to you,
change the default password to actually get into it.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, sure.
So while we're here, we can just run
the command is pass, P-A-S-S-W-D for password.
And it's going to ask you to put in the current password,
which is just raspberry.
All right.
And now we type in the new one.
Where are you going to be?
So now we're all updating.
Next thing, since SSH is already installed on it,
you can actually about default.
The port is 22.
And people like to really bang up that port
to see if they can get into it.
And sure.
So what we really need to do is change what port it runs on.
That sounds good.
Yeah, so we're on a CD into Etsy.
Slash X in d.d.
And we've see a file that says SSH.
So if we do vm.tiny, SSH,
vm is kind of like a Winix command line text editor.
It's more than a text editor, but it's way to see stuff.
So now we can see what the port you're set to.
So right here, we need to change this.
And maybe an idiot forgot to do sudo, vm.tiny, SSH.
Actually, let's change the first one we need to change
is sudovm.tiny.
Slash Etsy, slash services.
And we scroll down through here until we find,
these are all the services.
And these are the ports that they run on.
So right here, we have SSH and it's defaulted to 22.
Oh, yes.
So we're gonna change that to a secret.
We're not gonna tell the podcast either.
Those were cool like that.
So we say, clear that, do wq for right and quit.
Now we go back over to Etsy, slash nx, x, n, d, dash, d,
SSH.
We have to tell that the server args dash i,
whatever this means, I'll be honest with you.
I have the slinest idea.
We change it to dash p and then the same port
that we just used over on the other side.
So now when we use SSH into it,
see our putty connection just ended.
So now we can close out putty.
Now when we putty, or when we putty into it,
we use SSH into it.
We can use the same IP address that we used before.
Whatever on the port, we need to change it
to what we just entered in for our new port.
This is just kind of like a little security thing.
Oh yeah.
You get this little people to kind of skitties and stuff
that just kind of pound away and see if they find
something that's open and then they find the vulnerability
and we don't want that.
No, you don't want all that.
So best just to secure it up as best as possible anyway.
So there is a way on recipe and mc.
And there's a few videos you can actually find
on there about it to have the operating system
partly on a SD card as well as a USB stick,
like a USB 3, so it's supposed to boot faster and all this stuff.
But it uses the SD card as a bootloader to say,
start from the USB key.
Okay, interesting.
Yeah.
The USB's built in 2.0, or they,
I think the 3.0.
Yeah, so it should be pretty fast.
Okay.
That's better on the bottom.
All right, so let's boot back up.
So let's see if we can SSH back into it.
We've probably got a new key and we do.
Let me say yes, log in as pie and then put your password
in that you used a few minutes ago.
All right, awesome.
So everything's back and working.
So we can still get into it and all that good stuff.
Let's do a couple of things.
First, we want to update the system to the latest
because it runs Debian on the back side
and then XBMC is kind of laid on top of it.
I use this way.
I think this way that it works.
So since it's still running Debian,
then we want to do a pseudo-apt-get update.
Actually, Command Hour, remember, that's amazing.
I have back in that a bunch of days.
Yeah, that's a few years ago.
Yep.
See, it's actually pounding away at the Weezy release.
So once it's finished, it's downloading the packages
for the updates and find out what's new and what's different.
We'll tell the update reboot once again.
And then we need to install the Nightly build.
So it's a little shut.
It's kind of a cutting edge, I guess.
But it gives us more of the ability
better to play the ISO files and stuff like that.
So after we do this update, we'll install the Nightly build.
And then we also need to install a library called DVD CSS.
It's a library to decode the DVDs.
No, I so we got all kinds of commands to do.
So we all do all that from the command line as well.
So while this thing is chunking away,
downloading the tons of updates it looks like
will pause and be right back.
All right, so after that long endeavor
of downloading updates and installing, rebooting,
updated Raspbian.
And now let's do this.
We need to install a few things to get lib DVD CSS installed.
And I'll make these in the show notes for the listeners.
So they can actually see these commands and stuff.
But first we're going to install BZIP 2.
So we're going to install BZIP.
And that's, I mean, it's a ZIP file.
So I mean, it will let you extract and the commands
down the way are going to use that
to extract the installation file and all that stuff.
The other piece that we're going to do now
is at get install GCC and make.
And GCC is the GNU C compiler.
And it like takes the raw source files, compiles them,
and then make actually makes the installation file.
So it's installed onto the system.
OK.
These are all the kind of things.
Like in Windows, it's just kind of like when you
click the EXE set up file, the set up on EXE,
all this stuff is already kind of automatic.
But this is more kind of more like what you would find
with like distributions like Slackware and stuff like that.
OK.
You know, you don't have to, but you can still use
to make install all that stuff, where you download
the tar file and all that stuff.
Debian, you don't really need that anymore
because they have the repository.
So libdvdcss is not any of the repositories.
And so we download the latest one.
And then we actually configure it and everything.
So OK.
So you're going to make it work.
So we're going to, yeah.
So right now we're going to install the BZIP and the GCC
and the make.
We're going to install those from the Debian repos repositories.
So they're already all nice and configured for Debian.
We just pull them down off their sites and install them.
So all that's done.
So this next one is a long wget.
And we're going to actually, we're going to wget this.
And wget is just, I don't know what the w stands for.
I guess I don't really, be honest with you.
I'm not really going to research.
It grabs the file from online.
That's it.
It pulls it down.
It's kind of like a web search.
Yeah.
So we're here.
So we're going to make a directory for installs.
And we're going to move that file over to it.
So let's see into it.
All right.
So there's our tar file.
So we got BZIP installed.
We got GCC and make install.
We downloaded the latest libdvdcss libraries.
So now we're going to tar.
And tar is, well, it's still stands, I guess, for a tape archive.
So it's just a way to zip something up.
You might think of it.
So it turns into a tar BZIP file.
So that's what this is.
So we're going to say tar xvjf.
And that just extracted verbose.
And it's lots of commands.
OK.
So we're going to like to worry about all that.
Let me just type libxvjf and then the name of the file.
And it extracts everything for us.
Nice.
So there it all is.
So now we cdm to this folder.
Not the tar file, we cdm to the other folder.
Configure.
And then it goes through and takes, checks for all the stuff
that's really needed.
Make sure it looks seat and polish there.
Make sure it has everything there.
So it kind of configures the files,
the way that it needs to.
So it kind of asks the systems, like, where do you have this?
And where do you have that?
And so it knows that it has the GCC over here and all that stuff.
And so it kind of makes this make file.
Excellent.
Whatever works.
Yeah, whatever.
I thought this was going to get a little nerdy for a little while.
So it's going to slash on through its stuff here.
So as long as we don't have any errors or anything,
we should be just fine.
Which, this is the same one that I just did.
So it does work.
Yeah.
So go with what you know.
That's true.
And that's working.
Yeah.
It's working.
This is the fun part.
This reminds me when I first started using Linux,
I ran Slackware.
Yeah.
I was like, well, actually not my first,
but my first distribution that I ran a lot.
Right.
I stayed with it for a while.
And if you want to install something,
you had to do this.
And you found the tar file.
And you downloaded it and then ran these commands
and then come up and I'll say, you know,
you're missing this and you have to go find it.
And it was weird, but it was fun.
So now, yeah.
So we got the make file configured.
So now we say make and and and and and and and.
Make dash or make space install.
Fire that away.
Now it's in the directory.
Now it takes a while, not a while,
but it takes a little bit.
Oh, yeah.
So it pops into the directory and it starts copying
all the files that were to where it needs them to be
and all that stuff.
Amazing little box.
Yep, that it is.
So while this thing is going to happen,
have you seen the, I just popped online.
I must be way behind because I just saw the Amazon
came out with a box that has all these things,
like Netflix and hoops and Amazon Prime.
And working on it now.
Yeah.
So they said they're in stock.
They're a hundred bucks.
Really?
But it really didn't seem like it really had anything
that had some games.
Yeah.
So.
Yeah.
They're trying to enter that market.
Everyone is really trying to get into that market.
You know, the Chromecast actually helped kind of push
the smaller boxes.
Have you seen Roku?
They have always stick now.
Yep.
Yeah, this is basically a lot of Chrome stick.
And I did read similar last week.
The Amazon really wanted to get a box out before Apple TV
or Apple released their next version of Apple TV.
And of course, that's always here to say
because there's always someone saying that Apple's getting
ready to release something that's going to be fantastic,
but they are saying the next Apple TV is going to be
really focused on the apps.
Whereas we know none of the previous Apple TVs
have any apps basically that are any fun, yeah.
Yeah.
So you, actually, we were talking earlier
about how you would buy the Blu-ray,
and they would give you the copy.
Yeah, you should.
Well, you still, you know, if you got your enhanced edition
or whatever kind of box set that they offer,
usually has the Blu-ray, a 3-day copy, or a 3-day copy.
And then your digital copy.
And for the longest time, they were all SD digital copies,
which look horrible, of course, on the HD.
And just recently, they've just started
including HD copies.
So that does make it nicer to get the Blu-ray,
and I have my son scratched up before we have a chance
to really enjoy the Blu-ray if we have the HD copy.
But I really want to back up my Blu-rays
as I have done my DVDs and then play those
through the Raspberry Pi.
I haven't really looked too much at playing the Blu-ray ISOs,
because I've heard that there are different types of ISOs
in the DVDs, and actually, I've not even been able
to play the Blu-ray ISOs on my desktop.
And that's trying BLC, which everyone knows,
BLC plays just about everything.
So I've only seen a few options online.
Of course, there are always for programs they want you
to pay for, and I don't want to pay for a program
just to lock something on my computer.
So we'll see how the part does with Blu-ray ISOs.
I'm sure this probably let a few people wondering,
why are we just doing ISOs?
But I like to have an exact copy of that DVD or that Blu-ray.
So is that the way that ISO has been compressed down?
Yeah, not a compressed format.
It's just pretty much the raw image
from the DVD or Blu-ray itself.
Gotcha.
So even like your typical DVD, which thick is 4.7 gigabytes,
and a lot of movies are double layer.
So the ISOs still ends up being seven and a half gigabytes or so.
So those movies do add up to a lot of space,
but space is cheap now.
Yeah, so we got the lib DVD.
Now we're going to download the latest version of XBMC.
So it's the latest nightly build.
So it's going to drop it down and do some upgrades.
And once we do that, we'll be able to hook up
the external hard drive and actually see some stuff happening.
Nice.
Hopefully we'll have our key about them.
We haven't got our key yet.
Notification of payment.
They didn't have a problem taking your money.
I guess it's simple.
We'll have to reboot and hook up our hub.
So we can hook up the external DVD or external product.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, at this point, we could probably just
unhook the keyboard and mouse because we're
doing everything from the command London with you anyway.
Oh, there you go.
OK, we just got our keys.
Ooh, goodie.
Yeah.
All right.
Well, we're almost there.
OK, well, we got a confirmation
that we got the license key, but it wasn't.
It was just going to be getting it soon.
I forgot that they did that.
They'll send you one that says that you got your payment
has been accepted.
And then they say, OK, we'll be sending you your key shortly.
And then you got to wait on your key.
So in the meantime, we're going to try
to get the Bluetooth keyboard working.
So first thing, apparently, this is something I have not done.
So this is going to be a good trial here.
So I'll put a link to the show notes
and the link in the show notes to this article on getting
it set up and running.
So it looks like, first we've got to set up,
we've got to enable D bus.
So update-rc.d-f-dbus defaults.
See if we can get a little light pop up on it.
All right, so update D bus.
Now, apparently, we need to reboot this sucker.
So reboot once again.
Good deal.
And then after this, we get to install the Bluetooth utility
stuff.
OK.
So now let's install, install Bluetooth,
the Blues Utils, and Blue Man, 94 megs of dependencies
that come down with the sucker.
That's funny.
Yep.
So let's pull it down.
Can I have to agree if we want to door?
Unfortunately.
So there was another article that
I had read before about this.
And it said at this point, this is where they started
having some problems for whatever reason.
It always dies at this step.
But so far, we're at 25% 26.
So that's good.
Yep.
So let's do another little update check.
If I do that airtime that it boots up,
if I do that check, but I haven't rebooted mine for a while.
OK.
So it just hangs there.
Yeah, it's a little energy consumption.
I didn't need to check the USB on my TV
and see if it works when the TV's off.
Or if it always stays on.
It's probably something new.
How is it to turn it on and off?
It's not like there's no loss switch on it.
No, just power, that's it.
Unfortunately, it doesn't like it.
When you do that, it'll come out and say,
you didn't shut down the Raspberry Pi correctly.
Yeah.
But there's something you have to power button right there.
OK.
Cool.
Actually, while that's doing that, let me check the TV
and see if that USB stays on all the time.
OK.
I'm actually going to get it.
Alrighty.
Now we have Bluetooth stuff going on.
We ran a LS USB.
And we just found it.
So according to this, we have to make note of the address.
So it's kind of like a MAC address, I guess.
So we got that.
Let's run this HCAT tool scan and see if it will actually
find.
It's now solid.
What?
Now we get a circle.
Yeah.
Is it scanning for this?
Be honest with you, I'm not really 1% sure,
because the directions say to pair the device.
OK.
I'm not going to do that coming into again.
OK.
Oh, yeah, turning.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Yeah, well, it does have a little Bluetooth.
OK.
Oh, I see.
So we're going to pair the keyboard with the Dungle.
That's what it's actually.
Hoping.
Yeah.
So we're going to run that tool again.
So the keyboard's flashing.
And the Dungle's flashing.
And the pie still says scanning.
It's trying.
Yeah.
You're trying to lock it up.
Yeah.
Let's actually reboot the pie real quick.
See if maybe after we installed all those updates,
we just need to.
It found it.
So they came up with the MAC address.
It looks like of the keyboard, which is the iPads report.
So we just needed to reboot it, I guess.
So all right.
So I guess we need to pair the keyboard and the Dungle
in our pin code.
OK.
Where's the same thing with this and the thing?
Do we know?
I don't know if that pin code.
Do you know like I'm the need for remote controls
if it is?
Do we know what the pin code would be for that Bluetooth?
Is it?
It's supposed to pop up and tell you what to input.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Oh, that's how it's done so far.
Oh, yeah.
I'm sorry.
We do do it on this.
Yeah, that's what it looks like.
So inner pin code.
What are the zeros here?
That's what they use.
So that was an internet days that was our internet time.
That was nothing, but to us, it was about 20 minutes
of frustration.
So we got the Dungle put on and it started blinking
to install all the packages and all this stuff,
but we couldn't get it to pair for some reason.
So I'm going to link to this article in the show notes,
but one thing, whenever this was stupid,
I should have realized this.
But whenever we do the blues-simple-agent to pair the Dungle
with the keyboard itself, run it just root.
And then enter a key.
Any key, you can put whatever you want.
Hit enter on the keyboard for the SSH
and then immediately on the keyboard
for the Bluetooth keyboard.
Enter the same key that we just entered before
and hit enter, NLC, release, and everything's good.
So now, we see if we can actually get it working.
It is still not safe to still blinking.
Still blinking.
Yeah, maybe we have to do a reboot.
Okay.
Maybe.
Oh, oh, there it goes.
Hey, it's working.
Hey, that's pretty darn cool.
That only took like an hour.
Hey, I got it.
But now we got the Bluetooth keyboard working.
So I think we got everything.
Now we just need to install the license key.
That's right.
While we were waiting on that, we did get some good news.
And that was the license key actually came through.
Yay.
So since we're SSH into the Raspberry Pi,
we're going to CD over to slash boot.
And inside that, there's a file that says
config.txt.
So we're going to do our typical backup of it.
So we're going to just pseudo copy, config.text,
and then config.txt.bac, B-A-K, just in case we screw something up.
So let's do a pseudovim.tiny config.txt.
The Vim.tiny was big when I found that,
because I'm just using Vim.
And I was like, why can I use Vim?
And I was like, ah, man, they've got to install Vim.
They're probably saying use nano.
And I didn't like it.
But they're like, I've just used Vim.tiny.
It's already there.
So cool.
All right, whatever.
Now we go into this config.txt file.
And down at the bottom, we are going to enter the keys for decoding MPG2s.
Almost screwed that up.
It's on the wrong one.
So let me do a decode underscore MPG2 equals.
And then our key, then decode the WBC1 equals.
All right, that sucker.
Oh, that's reboot.
Now we can go in when we actually boots up.
We can actually, there's a section in the Raspberry Pi
that we can see the license.
And it should say that it's all there and everything.
But you will know real quick.
Oh, anyway, if you try to play the ISO file, that doesn't work.
So.
Oh, let's go ahead and plug in our hub.
Well, we, yeah.
Oh, the little.
Not sure.
Yeah.
I think that what we can actually get our external drive from on.
Yep.
Let's see.
Do you need anything?
What else do you want to plug up to, the size of the dongle?
When I plugged up my external hard drive through the hub,
it might have been the crappy hub that I was using.
Yeah.
But it wouldn't.
It wouldn't even boot.
Oh, really?
No.
Funny.
Yeah.
So I mean, I would actually.
Well, we don't really have to do that a lot.
We might be able to use put the dongle and the Wi-Fi
through the hub, though.
OK.
But I would actually plug up the external hard drive,
plug that up to directly to it.
OK.
So we rebooted.
And unfortunately, the blue tooth keyboard loses its connection.
And you've got to run through the, you know,
turning on the blue tooth part on the keyboard
and running the command from SSH, the blues dash test dash input
connect, and then the MAC address of the keyboard.
And then the keyboard start working again.
We'll have to figure that one out to see
what it is that's going on with that.
So we should be able to see our files now.
Oh, I guess I shouldn't have the charger on.
Yeah.
Power.
Power, who knows?
There it is.
So now we've found our drive.
Got a folder for movies.
And then it's out of that.
We got a bunch of ISO files.
And I'll show you some stuff that we can do with this
to make it a little bit more seamless.
But it will take a while to run through the scan.
So it was just far on that.
Does this see what it does?
Yeah.
Well, I think it tells you it gets SD or HD.
So what we just kind of fired at the ISO files
straight from the external hard drive.
And we don't have any sound.
Oh, I have speakers.
That was stupid.
I was like, oh, we don't have any sound.
Because we don't have speakers.
But now we don't have to use the keyboard.
There is an Android app.
And I think you can get it for iPhone as well.
This is called XBMC remote.
And it actually does really well.
So you actually can just set it up.
It kind of SSH's into the pie.
But there's a little Bluetooth keyboard still working.
Very good.
I got the full menu.
Looks good.
Yeah.
So we're actually looking at this on a crappy monitor.
Now I guess the only thing we need to do is just go in
and plug it up to the TV and start watching some movies.
So there's some plugins that you can do and stuff like that
that pulls down the art and stuff like that.
And you can set up to where it looks at that one directory.
And you tell that that's movies.
And then within the stream of RaspBMC,
you get a movie.
It's just like you would with the horses videos
and pictures and stuff like that.
You get one that says movies and I get you nice little thumbnails.
And it has recently viewed and stuff like that.
And there's some really nice plugins that you can get.
So I'm up and work.
Some of them don't.
If they don't work, then it's free.
So I don't know enough about the programming
and how to fix it.
But they do have a really nice PBS plugin.
But you can just stream stuff off their website, it's free.
But they have our long documents, like front line
and stuff like that.
Yeah.
So there we are.
Everything's all set up.
We get the license file.
We got everything's installed.
Ready to fly.
So we got our little tiny pie.
Ready to hook up to the network with the keyboard.
We're good to go.
What do you think?
It's actually pretty good.
Yeah, so far so good.
Looks really nice.
It would be nice if this pie had a way to,
oh, we do not have the pie with keyboard.
I have like an actual stop button on it, stuff like that.
Ah, sure.
No, that's just, oh.
Did it have a stop button back?
And they worked in the black or the black G's.
Yeah, the blue teeth, the blue teeth keyboard, actually,
is a really good idea because there'll
be times when you want to like search for something
or something of the nature.
And with some of the plug-ins, you can get the one
to search for certain titles or something like that.
And you can't.
So I have to laugh at Curtis while he was sitting here
talking a minute ago.
After we talked about the app, I quickly
went to the app store and downloaded the apps.
And now I'm controlling the Raspberry Pi with the app.
See how quickly that worked.
Yeah.
Yeah, this is very responsive.
And I'll tell you, that looks a bit different
than the Android version.
That looks pretty cool.
Yeah.
And there it works.
That's cool.
It does.
I actually control, do most of the, actually,
I do all of it with the phone instead of the Raspberry.
Because my TV remote control will work with it and stuff.
So I don't know, I'm not really sure.
Really haven't took the time to figure out
how it's connected to the thing that it works.
So there we go.
So the old thing we need to do now is see how Matt just
went back to the main screen that we have.
Weather and pictures and video and music.
And there's add-ons for each one of those as well.
And so you actually just hit the get more.
And it kind of works just like Debian or anything
like that, where you just hit the get more.
And it lists all the plugins that are associated
with pictures or what, not, you know,
link them up to.
Wow.
And yeah, you got your, even put your Flickr account
within there and that kind of thing.
So you can pull stuff down.
There's one there for Berkassa, I think.
Oh, yeah.
So I got a lot of pictures on Berkassa.
And some on Flickr, I used to use Flickr a lot more
than I do now, but.
You know what, me too.
I actually just start recently using it a bit more
because they offer a terabyte of online storage for free.
Yeah.
It's still the thing of uploading it there, but, you know.
Just do it while you're sleeping.
Yeah, that's it.
So once we actually go in and configure the Raspberry Pi
to say, and this folder here is movies,
you'll get a menu selection over on the other side
where it says movies.
And it will have thumbnails of the movies.
You can pull down fan art for each one of the movies.
You'll tell you where you stopped in the movie and, you know,
pick up from here or whatever.
It's, it's pretty awesome.
Yeah, I'm liking it.
It's kind of nice to get some of these add-ons enabled.
And, yeah.
Art work up and.
Yep.
First time you run the update for the art work
and, you know, the amazing updates itself, it goes for a while.
And yours is going to go for a long while with,
what was it, 700 gigs of stuff here, yeah.
All right, quite a few.
I guess that does it for us.
We're going to take this puppy in here and hook it up
to the big screen and, we're going to watch some movies.
We appreciate y'all listening to this far.
It's an hour into it, so hopefully you stuck around
and, fortunately, for you, it was an hour for us.
It was about four hours, four or five hours, but, um, hey,
nothing like a nice little afternoon project to, uh, to have some fun.
So, yeah.
All right.
We appreciate y'all listening.
Y'all take care.
We'll see you soon.
Bye-bye.
Yeah.
Awesome.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
Our Hacker Public Radio does art.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows
every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the infonomicum computer club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are proudly sponsored by Lina Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to LinaPages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is
released under a creative commons,
attribution, share a line, free dose of license.
