Episode: 1075
Title: HPR1075: tgtm-news-75-20120912
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1075/hpr1075.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 18:31:29

---

You're listening to Talk Geek 3 News, number 75, record for September the 12th, 2012.
You're listening to the Tech Only Hacker Public Radio Edition, to get the full podcast
including political, commentary and other controversial topics, please visit www.talkgeektme.us.
Here are the vials statistics for this program. Your feedback matters to me. Please send
your comments to dgatdeepgeek.us. The webpage for this program is at www.talkgeektme.us.
You can subscribe to me on Identica as the username DeepGeek or you could follow me on Twitter.
My username there is dgtgtm as in DeepGeek Talk Geek to me.
Right now, the Tech Roundup. From torrentfreak.com, dated September 6, 2012 by Ernesto,
Pirate Bay found a arrest related to tax hack, not piracy.
Last week police arrested Pirate Bay co-founded Gottfried Swathom in the Cambodian capital
of Phnom Penh. Initially, Lil was known about the reasons for the arrest, but after a few
days the authorities confirmed that Sweden was the driving force behind the actions, according
to his spokesperson for the Cambodian police, Swathom's detainment is connected to alleged
cyber crimes. His arrest was made at the request of the Swedish government for crime related
to information technology, he said. Finally statement was assumed that information technology
referred to Swathom's involvement with the Pirate Bay. However, several sources now dispute
this and say that Swathom's arrest is related to a hacking operation that made date back
to 2010. The hack targeted Swedish IT company Logica, which supplies services to the Swedish
tax office. Earlier this year, the hack made the headlines when the tax numbers of 9,000
Swedes leaked online. In the months that filed, two Swedish citizens in their 30s were arrested
in connection with the hack. One of the suspects in question was a member of Pirate Byron,
the group that founded the Pirate Bay back in 2003, and was disbanded two years ago. Swathom
would be the third suspect in the hacking case, which was previously described by the International
Public Prosecution Office as a big and sensitive investigation. A source told Turret Freak
that Swathom is not awaiting his deportation in prison, but is being held at the interior
ministry's counterterrorism department. This is confirmed by former Pirate-based spokesman
Peter Sund, and the sources of Swedish news site dn.se. On Twitter, Peter Sund adds that
Swathom, aka Anacada, has not been offered a lawyer, and that the Swedish Foreign Ministry
is not helping the Pirate-Founder either. Swedish Foreign Ministry has not offered Anacada
legal help, so they must do that in Sweden, but ignore it when they are behind the warrant,
Sund says. Swathom is being held in an office space accompanied by personnel from the interior
ministry, and is currently awaiting the authorities' next steps on Monday,
Cambodian officials confirmed that the Pirate-Bay Founder will eventually be deported.
From inthesetimes.com
Bye, David Suota.
David, September 7, 2012. Big Brother in your car.
Your chipper, TV friend, flow, otherwise known as progressive,
insurance as ubiquitous as shell. Once you to be excited, very excited,
as you've probably learned from her ever since commercials. She had her big brothers,
and the insurance business want you to see their new tracking devices for your car,
not as a privacy-destroying step to justify racing your government mandate car insurance
premiums. Instead, they want you to see the gizmos which record your vehicles every move
as a great innovation to get your premium discounts for safe driving.
Yet, despite the happy TV ads, questions are nonetheless swirling around the so-called
telematics-based insurance. Questions that flow doesn't want you to ask because the tracking
system is so frantically invasive and arbitrary. To appreciate that disturbing reality consider
how the system operates. For an interview with a progressive manager, FoxNews.com reports
that the tracking technology works on algorithms that use your driving style to predict how likely you
are to have an accent and how expensive it will be if it happens, among the myred data points
that could be collected are breaking frequencies and commuting routes. This may seem innocuous,
but the potential use of such data makes the film minority reports seem less like fantasy than
spot on prophecy, and in that flick humans have developed technology to fight pre-crime that
is to stop crimes before they occur and punish people for allegedly preparing to commit said crimes.
Telemax-based insurance could easily become the insurance industry realization of that technology.
It could help insurers charge you higher rates for embracing driving styles and geographic routes
that supposedly mean you are about to incur a collision course, even if you have an actually
incurred said course, and even if you never will incur a said course in the future.
Put another way rather than charge you higher premiums after you incur a course.
The companies can use this technology to preemptively punish you beforehand,
a law department of pre-crime. To read the rest of the song, follow links in the show notes.
From EFF.org, date September 7, 2012 by Hany Fakori, EFF asks the peel court to rehere a
cell site tracking case. Location privacy generally and cell site tracking specifically have been
to hot issues this year, particularly since the Supreme Court's January ruling in United States versus
Jones, that installing a GPS device on a call without a search warrant violated the Fourth Amendment.
After Jones, we were optimistic that both courts and legislatures would begin to take location
privacy seriously and demand warrants before granting law enforcement access to a map of
movements over and extended period of time, but it hasn't turned out that way. In August,
the Six Circuit Court appeals issued a very bad decision, ruling law enforcement did not need
a search warrant to track a cell phone in real time. So this week, EFF and a number of other
civil liberties organizations joined together in Amicus briefed to ask the Six Circuit to reconsider
its decision. The Six Circuit heard argument in the case just a few days before the Supreme Court
issued its opinion in Jones, without the benefit of an in-depth discussion of the impact of that
critical decision, the Six Circuit's opinion naturally failed to appreciate the changing legal
landscape and gutting privacy protections for millions of people to read the rest of the
followings in the show notes. From EFF.org did September 7, 2012 by Kurt Uppsall and
Parker Higgins, Copyright's Robot Wars heat up as algorithms block live streams first and ask
questions later. Copyright's Robot Wars have burst onto the scene of streaming video sites
silencing live feeds with bogus infringement accusations and no human oversight. Two examples
from just the past week show the danger that lies ahead of copyright enforcement is left
to bots alone and sit alongside last month's smallest lander takedown as embarrassing
results of the unchecked and lopsided algorithmic copyright cops that are becoming increasingly common
online. On Sunday, the live use stream feed of the annual Hugo Science Fiction Awards
ceremonies was cut off in midstream after Aaron Clips from non-minated TV programs including Dr.
and Community. These clips were provided by the studios behind the programs and would have been
a clear fair use even without that explicit permission, but still the stream went down and didn't
come back. Then on Tuesday, just after the speeches at the Democratic National Convention had concluded,
YouTube showed a copyright error message on the stream, rendering the prominently embedded
video temporarily unplayable. According to a YouTube spokesman, the message was a result of an
incorrect error message on the page and did not interfere with the live stream during the speech.
Nevertheless, this highlights the potential danger of bots at one of the most prominent political
events of the presidential campaign season and error carried with all the hallmarks of a copyright
takedown. We have asked YouTube for more information on why the error text had copyright messaging.
In the case of the Hugo's, this wasn't about running off the rails. In fact, the system was
working exactly as expected. Mobile, the third-party copyright filtering system used by
use stream identified a matching clip from its database and lacking the context that an
human oversight could have provided about fair use and licenses decided the stream's fate
in a microsecond, termination, and because these bots generally operate outside of the Digital
Millennium Copyright Act, there is little accountability or opportunity for the uploader to remedy
the situation. Most copyright takedowns on the web are handled under the notice and takedown
procedures set out, the DMCA, which provides a legal safe harbor from liability for service providers
that comply. While the DMCA is far from perfect and is itself subject to abuse, it still requires
a human to swear under a penalty of perjury that there is infringement and allows for the
material to return after a counter notice. But, the automated copyright filters in used by use stream
YouTube and others go beyond the requirements of the DMCA and thus operate outside of it.
As a result, users are left without the standard appeals process and have only the recourse provided
by the video platform. YouTube has an appeal system built into its content ID system,
but it has its own host of problems. For use streams plot, it realized the error during the
program but was by its own admission, unable to lift the block in time to restart the stream.
Use stream has since apologized and promised to ensure fair use of copyright as permitted by
the law to read the rest of this article, follow links in the show notes. From torrentfreak.com
By Ernesto Day September 4th 2012, anti-piracy block lists don't keep BitTorrents buys out.
When people use BitTorrent to download copyright material, there's a good chance that their IP
addresses are being logged by anti-piracy groups. Just last week, we showed that two of these
companies were snooping on thousands of torrents. Many piracy conscious BitTorrent uses a well
aware of this kind of monitoring activity and take measures to remain anonymous. The preferred way
for many is to use a VPN or proxy, which conceals their ISP IP address.
Another group of BitTorrent uses prefer a free option in the form of a block list. These block lists
prevent a BitTorrent client from connecting to IP addresses that presumably belong to anti-piracy
outfits. While these block lists do provide some security, they are not foolproof.
Some anti-piracy groups are not recognized by the block list and therefore not blocked.
This means that users who rely on them as their only means of protection are at risk of being logged.
In a new paper titled, The Unbearable Lightness of Monitoring, Direct Monitoring in BitTorrent,
researchers from the University of Birmingham try to quantify this problem.
The researchers developed a methodology to detect which peers in a swarm are likely to be
anti-piracy monitors. The research looked at 60 public torrent files and over a period of time they
found 856 peers on five subnets that showed strong characteristics of monitoring agencies.
This data allowed them to compare their findings to the IP addresses that are blocked by the popular
i-block list block list to see how effective it is at keeping BitTorrent spies out. Perhaps not
surprisingly the block list doesn't offer complete security. 69% of the IP addresses of monitoring companies
were blocked but the other 31% were not. In other words, nearly one three logging attempts bypassed
the block list. Our Direct Monitoring Analysis produced 595 peers out of 156 that appear in subnets listed
in the anti-infringement list. In addition, our analysis identifies 263 peers that
albeit displaying the same behavior as monitoring peers do not currently appear in block lists,
the researchers write. BitTorrent users should therefore not rely solely on such speculative
block lists to protect their privacy they add, suggesting that these BitTorrent users should add
block lists based on empirical research. In addition to examining the effectiveness of i-block list,
the researchers also identified the prevalence of indirect versus direct detection methods.
In the past, indirect methods where modern companies obtained lists of IP addresses without
connecting to the downloaders have been heavily criticized. The main problem that these lead to
a higher number of false accusations, for example, research has shown that due to shoddy techniques
even a network printer can be accused of sharing copyrighted files on BitTorrent.
In the paper the researchers found that direct methods where the anti-piracy group confirms that
downloaders are actually sharing are also widely used now. Their paper is first to provide evidence
of direct monitoring, suggesting that modern companies are upping for their accuracy.
For U.S. Internet subscribers, the topic is relevant as the six tracks anti-piracy scheme will
be rolled out later this year. The Center for Copyright Information has yet to announce the names
of the companies that will do the spying for the six tracks system and when they do it will be
interesting to see what data gathering methods they use. But whatever the answer, the block list
alone is not going to prevent BitTorrent users from running into trouble.
News from tech.com, Maggie McNeil.wordpress.com, and in these times.com used under a range permission.
News from torrentfreak.com and EFF.log used under permission of the creative commons by attribution
license. News from democracy.now.org used under permission of the creative commons by attribution
non-commercial node derivatives license. News sources retain their respective copyrights.
Twitter. My username there is dgtgtm as in deep geek talk geek to me.
This episode of talk geek to me is licensed under the creative commons attribution share like
3.0 on poor license. This license allows commercial reuse of the work as well as allowing you to
modify the work so long as you share a like the same rights you have received under this license.
Thank you for listening to this episode of talk geek to me.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and near the phenomenal computer club.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are crowd-responsive
by lunar pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your
hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share alike, 3.0 license.
