Episode: 1177
Title: HPR1177: HPR Community News Dec 12/Jan 13
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1177/hpr1177.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 21:04:24

---

Okay, hello everybody, my name is Canthalan and you're welcome to this episode of Hacker
Public Radio, which is our community news look back at what happened in the last month.
This one was a bit odd because we have two months in review from December 2012 and all
the shows in January 2013. Enjoying me this this evening is fake Dave, say hello
fake Dave. Hello everyone. Kevin Wishers, say hello Kevin. Hello everyone. And
soundchaser, say hello soundchaser. Hello everyone. And not one of you said, say hello
Ken. Hello Ken. Anyway, anyway, anyway, she puns aside. I would like to welcome and apologize
beforehand for butchering your names. The new hosts who have joined us in the last two months
and they are Dick Thomas, Delwin, Charles in NJ, Dudeman, Beetle, Peter 64, Johan Vey, Em
Il Yn, Klein, N My Bill and K5 Tux. Now some of those names you've probably heard before on the
podcasting scene, but that would be their first contribution as regular hosts to Hacker
Public Radio. Welcome everyone. Okay, with that we'll move on to the special apologies and
thanks section, which is my inability to do stuff right. First of all, I want to apologize to
Dudeman, who's in the lounge, but I can't can't touch him to invite him into the show.
For missing the fact that he was a new podcaster, he had released a show on syndicated Thursday,
and for some reason my brain just could not accept the fact that he was a new new podcaster when
he's running his own show and also has been on HPR and whatever, but he'll be thrilled and delighted
to know that later on the show I'll be giving you an update and how hopefully all that sort of
stuff will be corrected, which brings me to my second point, which is thanks to Emeline for
Klein, for the patch on the readme file. It's quite amazing. I still haven't got around to fixing
that, but more about that in later on. Thanks to Mike and Dave for being on top of the problems
with the websites. Some onescaped appersans got into the feed somehow, and they were on top of it
before, probably anybody noticed it. And then first of all, probably a massive big thanks to
everybody who supported the new year show. I know at the end I met a very poor attempt at thanking
everybody, but just going through the mailing list today. My archives I was just astounded
at the number of people I missed, and the number of people who contributed, not least of which
many of the people on this show tonight. I'd like to thank everybody who donated hardware,
and also everybody who donated their time to do scripting, their donated mirrors,
VPSs, who met bumpers for us, who worked on the mailing list, who stayed up all night,
who helped out doing how-to's and stuff. Again, I haven't produced a list. I should have done.
Everybody who supplied case, everybody who supplied VPSs, everybody who supplied mirrors,
all the people who spread the show, spread the word, all the podcasters who played our promo
on their shows and stuff. So a big massive big thanks to everybody for putting the show together.
Then finally an apologies to everybody who was offended by my post on the mailing list this month.
As you may or may not know, I've had an operation, and I've been a lot blunter than I normally would,
but you'd be glad, well, I don't know whether you'd be glad to know, but things are going well,
and I should be back to work soon. So that was that. Anyone, any comments on that massive list of fail
there? Again, I just want to say thanks for your contributions. I mean, things are going wrong,
sometimes when you do things, and I really appreciate, and I know a lot of other people do your
contribution to hacker public radio. I know you're very welcome, but as I'm now putting on my line,
I'm just the human bash script I intend to replace myself as early as possible. I actually managed
to record a show myself the other night, you know, a technical show, and it was very exciting to
get back just doing a technical show about something, and I still have to pull those posts into
the queue, but it was kind of nice to be getting away from there. I'd been a little bit and go back
to just recording regular shows. Okay, let's do the show review and bear with us folks. It's a big
long list. I'm not going to go into it too deep because of the number of, you know, we've had two,
we've had two months, so let's just horse through them as quickly as possible. Started with 1132,
Linux and the shell, Killer Worms, were done, went through, showed us how to use the
command, kill command, and the Worms command, which I'd never heard of before. Then we had an
introductory, how I got into Linux by Dick Thomas, and about the ZX Spectrum, and how we got in
his debut and obsession with making YouTube videos for fun. So welcome him to the
to the network. Then we had a syndicated Thursday, the scanner drone from
that would have been by a brown, of course, and this is a very interesting, very interesting
series. The links, of course, for this show, are in the show notes for that episode if you want to
subscribe. It's the sort of thing that I think people will be interested in. Then we had
a talk to me news, and the following Monday, we had a hookah with the first in a brand new
office series, and I'll just know that this is, they should be required listening for anybody
who is in the workplace or supporting IT. You will be thrilled to know there's a whole
go of them in the queue, and they will be coming up very, very soon, unless we get people to submit
other shows. Then we had the new age techno hippie with the open street maps, call out for maps,
various different links about how to get started with the beginners guide and the tutorial.
I'm personal fan of open street maps, and I think it's a fantastic project, so
if anybody is interested in open street maps, there's also another show in the queue from our
very good friend Poki, who is doing another episode on open street maps. The following day, we had
1138, which was Python programming part two, the second in the series, and this one is,
I'm really liking this series, I don't know about you guys, have you been listening to Python at
all, anyone interested in learning Python? Actually, I'm teaching myself Python right now, and it
hadn't actually heard this show, because I've kind of missed a few months worth of stuff, so.
It's an excellent series, and I hope there will be many more to come in this series.
I'm more of a pro now myself, I have to admit. Then we had the everybody has to have the missing
episode, and this was ours, Mr. Gadgets, and even know that he had sent it in. It was an episode about
the Kansas City Europe Pirates, and power PCs, and megabyte sized hard disks technology from
15 years ago, so there you go, Mr. Gadgets. I had some fun trying to Google what the Kansas City
Europe Pirates were, so there you go. Then we had Toki to be news, and
the following day we had a very timely episode, a mumble client intro by Delwin, and it was
particularly timely. I did a video excerpt for that, but unfortunately, you can get it up in time
due to getting ready, a lot of things, getting a lot of other things ready for the event.
So then we had the next day, Lennox and the Shell P-Grep and P-Kill, where Dan goes on his
slaying mission to chase down every stray process that there might be, and kill it.
And then we had the first from a new host, Charles and NJ. They end days of Christmas
introduction to recreational mats, and I was never a big maths fan, I have to say myself,
but this one I did thoroughly enjoy, and I know for a fact there was another one in the Q
later on, I don't know if it's been published yet, I think it's still in the Q, and I know he was
wondering whether people will find it interesting, but I know I definitely did. Then we had a
a hookah with who owns your files with a fantastic list of resources about where to get
music, various creative commons, sites where you can get free as in freedom,
audiobooks, and music, and e-books in fact. Moving on past, talk to you to my news,
and we had Wireshark Episode 1, the new age techno hippie, bringing us Wireshark Tutorial,
and this actually was very useful, and I used his tips and tricks the following day in work.
Ahuka DK brought us the eulogy for the netbook, which was very sad that the netbooks were
being discontinued. I don't know if you guys have any comments about that?
Sure. You can, that's about all I have. I have one good laptop, and then just a series of netbooks,
and our family operates on them, and I really hope the platforms, you know, the
that size of computer stays around, or at least there's something available, because I find it
real handy. I don't see a sense in buying a tablet right now, and then having to buy an extra keyboard,
essentially the same thing with a netbook. I know myself, I travel by train, or at least at
this one, that didn't do a lot in the way of traveling, but when I travel by train, I see a lot of
people have tablets, you know, they, I think the Netherlands is one of the highest number of
iPads per capita, and you see a lot of Android's now, but you see people with these, with the
tablets, and they've got this clicky on keyboard thing, and they're trying to type, and I just
don't know why guys use a, use a little netbook. And I'm also surprised why the EU, who is normally
on top of these things, didn't do a, didn't do an anti-competitive move against Microsoft when it
forced, they basically introduced the death of the, the netbook, when it forced the manufacturers,
that if they were shipping a Linux version, they had to ship it as a dumb, dumb machine.
So they, and that, and of course Steve Jobs, saying it was a race to the bottom.
I, I very, I would be very surprised, and there's pure speculation on my part, but I'd be very
surprised if there wasn't at least grounds for a summary investigation about, you know, what
went on there, why did, why did netbooks all of a sudden go from being massively popular to being,
yeah, just thrown out of the market essentially, but anyway.
Then 1146 was a rambling discussion where Dave Morris put up with my, my discussions about what
the plans were for HPR. I don't know if anybody got listened to that show, if, if any useful
information was derived there from. I listened to that, Canon, I really like that show. It was really
informative, and I think it shows the inner workings of the, the acupublic radio network, and it was
really good. Well, um, stay tuned, because there's going to be more information about that funny
being forced to stay inside the house for two weeks. Those focus the mind when it comes to
getting some stuff done on the background. Then we had a, the second in the series from
Ahuka on Libra offers Roger to fold templates, again required listening for anybody who's into
office or works with an office application. And then we had hacking, camera, and re-encarnation
with the forgiveness discipline by DeepGeek. I don't want money to catch this up.
I started to listen to it, and unfortunately I really couldn't listen to it.
Just one of those things that was outside of my, my area.
I listened to the entire episode, and I thought it kind of interesting. I think that DeepGeek has
some insight into keeping yourself in control to make your life better, and
religious implications are not, I think, that it's really best for people to find some avenue to
kind of control how things are going. So I really was, it was a little hard to listen to,
because it had some philosophical ways about it for me, but then again, had some good insight.
Absolutely. I think you nailed it there for me. I would, I took a lot from us, but I don't
think I would be the target audience. Let's put it like that. But it was, again, I love this
type of show coming on to the network. It forces you to challenge your preconceptions or
understanding of other people's view on the world. And I always think that's great.
Then, folks, then it began 1151, 1152, 1153, 1154, 1155, 1156, 1157, and 1158, Hacker, Public Radio, New
Year Show, what an event. Just wow, everybody who showed up and contributed. I mean, there,
there must have been at least 30 people in the room at all times, and it was just kept going,
and going, and going. And it was wonderful the way people really just chipped in and contributed
all around and everything that happened. Absolutely. The amount of people that came on,
I just said it before, the amount of people who were involved in putting it together was amazing,
and the amount of people who just turned up the whole time was like this was more than a 24-hour
show because for some silly reason, apparently, in an average day, has more than 24 hours who knew.
Anything else to say about the New Year show, anyone? Anyone wrong?
Well, I think we have to do it again next year. I think it's going to quickly become a Hacker
Public Radio tradition. I mean, this is the second year of doing it, and I think it's taken off
to a point where I think everybody actually looks forward to it. I know I enjoyed it, but I mean,
our other people, I'm too close to the thing, because yeah, I was involved in that kind of
running the European side. But was it a worthwhile thing for our listeners to do? Was it enjoyable to
sit there to participate? Was it enjoyable to listen to H.O.s one after the other about three
and four hours a piece of times drunken ramblings by people or by myself cutting in an outer?
I don't know. I would love to get feedback from everybody just about the New Year show,
whether it is worth our while putting it on. Again, I listen to most every episode of that,
and I really like it. It's good to get to know other people, and I wasn't able to participate,
because it had something come up a new year's eve that demanded my attention, but I really like it.
It gets people to know the personalities of those that are involved, and people who
normally don't participate show up there, and then so there's, and it gets to be those traditions
like with this AWAB and that, so that ran over for my last year, and so I loved it.
Dude, man, are you listening? I thought it was funny listening to the show, because I had missed
obviously, you know, good six, seven hours when I went to bed, and then it's funny. The same
topics can reappear over and over again, as people, as people come on and we'll be talking about
raspberry pies, and how have we been talking about food, and how have we been talking about this
and the next thing, so yeah. Dude, man, I was listening, but he has no mic.
Yeah, it was funny, like every six or eight hours, the same topics would come up. I can say this,
I did actually have some friends who listened to a little bit of the show, maybe like half an hour
partway through, and they were actually interested. They were actually more interested in HPR now,
and I think one or two of them are actually going to start pulling the feeds and start listening
some of the shows, so I think it actually helped in that respect.
Well, it is, you know, the main goal obviously is to get people listening to the shows, but the main
goal of it is to get people to contribute to shows, so hopefully we'll continue to see people
submitting shows for the coming period of time. Okay, the next day was episode 1159,
which was dude, man, and now he's got his mic muted. We've had a healthy discussion offline,
about this episode, but it was an absolutely fantastic episode. I would absolutely encourage
anybody who has any interest at all in what is good food to get listening to this, to this episode,
and dude, man, has posted loads of different links to the shows or links that just where
you can get more information as of I, and yeah, it'll be something that I personally would
be coming back to as I get more information on the topic. Okay, moving on, we had
a talk to me newscast, and then we had 1161, which was Pam 24 factor authentication for SSH,
and the reason I'm laughing is I posted that one from the hospital, just before I went in,
and closely followed by the kill all command, which thankfully wasn't that wasn't the day before,
which I posted after I came out of the operation, and thanks to Dan and not Latu, of course,
for being ready to step in to take over HPR, if for one reason or other I wasn't able to do that,
so cool, cute us to those two guys, and then we had 1163, installing PYWWS on a Raspberry Pi,
sorry, that should be installing PYWWS on a Raspberry Pi by PD64, and this was Peter's first
episode for Hacker Public Radio, of course you'll all know Peter from such podcasts as Dev Random,
and no, he doesn't do Rev Dev Random, he does Colonel Panic, and it was great to see him finally
coming on to Hacker Public Radio, then we had Johan V with a about Git, which was another
excellent example of talking about Git, and no, not Latu did a episode on Git previously,
this one was, I won't say, oh well, Latu's episode was on his own show, Gnu World Order,
and Johan V was, you know, introduced some of the basic concepts around Git, and if you have been
using an reversion control system, and are moving to Git, I suggest strongly that you look into
this one, and I just posted it into the comments about this, that, you know, he was going on about
you have a clone, and it goes to AB, and then B goes to C, and C goes today, and I was there,
like, writing this down in my head, and putting the numbers, when I, of course, looked in the
show notes, I found a link to his very, very, very detailed article about Git, with all this
explained, with diagrams, and everything, and it all made so much more sense, so if you're
into Git at all, please check out the links and the show notes to that one.
The following day, 1166, we had airtime automation with Al-Kun DG, I said twice,
correctly, and then of course, I have to run it, and this is a brilliant, brilliant, brilliant,
brilliant piece of software, I don't know why I'm getting so excited about this piece of software,
you could set up a radio station yourself, and just play it, it is fantastic, what can be done,
of course, young folks of today, it takes all the scorer granted, but hey, and our good friend,
5150, kernels in the boot, or what's what to do when your boot folder fills up, and that is a very
handy episode, which again, has many of 51's, 50's, if you never need them, you'll be happy,
but someday you will be thankful that he has done a show. Then we have a link line, and I know I'm
butchering his name because the eyes are supposed to be ease, but perhaps not, if it's French,
anyway, he's got a, he's a listener from Denmark, which now makes three of us, I think, who are from
the Netherlands, and it's a pity I've often been, I met my wife in the Netherlands, sorry, in
Denmark, actually, and so I used to spend quite a bit of time over there, so a little bit nice to have
a Linux, a Linux group to go and visit when I was over there, then we had need on media, another
dotk, with his Saturday show assisted heavily by Dudeman and not Latu, and this is a fantastic
innovation by these guys, where they plan to go onto this mumble room, I think, is it this
mumble room, Dudeman, who will now have to type in the answer, while he's typing that in,
and they have Saturday sessions, and they will be around two midday, you know, Dudeman is
unsure, but anyway, the information will be available on the HPR webpage, so they will be us
12 midday, Eastern Standard Time, or six in the evening, Central European Time, which is
17, six in the evening, 17, 1700, yes, 1700 UTC, so what he's going to be doing from now on,
I think, is I will talk more about that later on, but it was an interesting show about auto tools,
which scares me, I must say, has anyone used auto tools before?
Indirectly, somewhere with building and compiling some software, but I haven't actually
messed with it, actually setting it up myself.
Okay, then we had tech unloading 13, and this I posted as an original K5 Tux episode,
because it's been in the queue so long, that's it had been in the syndicate of Thursday queue
for quite a while, and now that we're moving off, basically syndicate the Thursday is no longer
with us, more about that later on. We will, I wanted to get this episode cleared out, and I
just pumped us to the top on the grounds that he was posting it as his own show, and it has
already been there for more than six months, so I don't think anybody should really be complaining
about that he hasn't waited long enough for it to get his show out. Then the following day,
I posted on the mailing list, and based for permission to bump this one up as well,
it's 1173, which was the show about sonar GNU Linux, and I just want to take some time to talk to
you about this, it is Jonathan Nadeau, who's the blind correspondent for the Linux community,
and he has started his own distro, the blind leading, the blind if you forgive the pun,
and where he has now developed a distro that a blind person can install it entirely by themselves.
Now just think about that for a moment, you have enabled a blind hacker to hack away
on our favorite operating system. Isn't that just fucking awesome?
It's actually quite wonderful, he's Jonathan's really gone all out and done a really great job
in making sure that we can enable Linux for anybody with the disability to use.
And that's the whole point of this project, it's he's got started in the Indigo Go campaign,
it's at www IndigoGo, i-n-d-i-e-g-o-g-o dot com forward slash sonar s-o-n-r.
There will be a link in the show notes for this, I would beg you guys. I know I've been,
a lot of people have offered, you know, to throw a few books, hit the HPR away,
down to the years that I've been doing this, and I would ask you to take that money and put it
into this project, this is a personal appeal of mine. If you don't have the funds which you
right now, please go to the Indigo Go page and pimp it. Like it, tweet it, google plus us,
embed it in your website, there's an embedded link on the HPR page, this I know is my pet project,
but what he's trying to do is make this thing accessible to anybody, like blind people, people
were learning different abilities, people with dyslexia people, people who are paraplegic,
when we can do this, it's like he's only looking for $20,000 to get this thing going where he can
take it to the next level, get a running Raspberry Pi, for instance, so that you can put an SD card
together for 50 bucks, you could put this distro on a SD card, send it off to somebody somewhere,
in some community that you'll never have the ability to get involved in technology, and suddenly
you've opened their world for them. So if you can't donate five bucks, then please at least,
you know, tweet it like it post it, retweet pulse about it that you see on Twitter or whatever,
re-like it, or forward it on to people who will have, you know, Justin Bieber, if you know him or
whatever, have him have him tweet about it, let's get the word out here. Yeah, he's only got 20 days
left for this campaign, and we're actually 19 days left, so really need to push it hard, guys,
to everybody out there. I mean, I really want to see Jonathan succeed with this fundraising
campaign and get to everything that he wants to do. I made a donation this morning, Ken, and I saw
that, and the, just looking back right now at the website, I see that things are current,
mine was the last donation, so people should jump on this, $20,000, not a lot of money, but it takes
a lot of people giving small donations to get this done. I mean, we, there are like 6,000 people
who will be listening to this show tomorrow. If you all give, you know, $5, you know, we'd be
well on the way, like that would be a nice bump. So come on, get your, get your finger out,
pulse just, tweet us, let's get this thing done, folks, yeah. Okay, enough about that. Then we had
in my bill with low tech fab PC etching, and he has reported to me that there has been an issue
with the encoding of this show. I don't know, I know you guys may not have heard it yet, but
if anybody at any time hears anything bad audio or cracking, okay, the bad audio is one thing,
you know, where it's recorded badly or whatever, but usually there shouldn't be clips or cutting
now short drop words or something. If you, if you notice that sort of thing, please contact us
immediately. If you, if you notice that sort of thing, I'm working with it in my bill on exactly
what the situation is. It looks like it's something to do with the transcoding on my side.
That's not 100% sure whether it's his exporting on flak and his side or the first stage
of transcoding on our side. So whatever it is, it needs to be fixed. It's, it's worrying either way.
So if we have people with FFMPEG experience, could you please also get involved, have
sent an email out to the mail list about this. And the last show was Lorde with how to start
a receive session in screen after reboot, which is something that I very much
I'm going to be doing very, very soon. So that was it. That's, thank you very much for
suffering. That big long list of of show review and I'll just take a drink of tea.
Okay, let's move on to discussion of the upcoming events. We have in order of when they're
happening, scale 11X, which is the 11th annual South California Linux Expo, running from February
22nd to the 24th, 2013, in the Hilton Los Angeles International Airport. So if there's anybody
around who will be available to go to that, at least snag some interviews for us, see if there's
any tables going on. If there's anybody who's got going to other shows, please give us a shout.
Speaking of which, the Northeast GNU Linux Fest is a Northeast Linux Fest.org. Bokey told us
that the Northeast GNU Linux Fest is running from March the 16th and the 17th in Boston. And that
would be Jonathan Nadia as well, running that or putting on that show. And then we have the Linux
Fest Northwest, which is running in Bellingham, WA, which state is that?
Folks, it's Washington. Washington is in the state if I'm correct. Is that correct?
There is Washington state and there's also Washington DC. Washington DC is District of Columbia,
but Washington state is a separate state. Okay, so you run out of words, did you?
Hey, can Washington state is just south of British Columbia and borders it and Bellingham is not
very far from Vancouver, BC or British Columbia, Canada? Got it, got it. Okay, and that's on the
April the 27th and the 28th and David Whitman will be going, putting on the HDR booth over there.
So if you're going to any of these shows, there's a join the mailing list to find out who else is
going. I'm going to I've bought up a special events page on HPR, which I haven't linked to yet.
It's basically just on a hello world page, but the the intention will be that there will be a page
there where people can who are going to those shows can edit it via the FTP server, a text file with
some notes and stuff and that can be that will be posted on the on the main web page.
Comments. Okay, let's move on to the mail list discussions. It's been a busy little month,
two months actually. The predominant discussion on the December show, the December on the mailing
list was the set up for the new show obviously and just a rising out of that I was shocked and stunned
to discover that there's no command line client from mumble and there's no command line easy way to
pipe music into or out of ice cast while out of is easy enough, but piping out of mumble and into
mumble is a little bit of a problem. So if anyone figures out a way of doing that, that's relatively
easy command line, a way of mind line that will go. Okay, so that was that. We've had a request from
DeepGeek. He's planning on doing a new segment about corporate use of web proxies. So if you could
you have experience in that can drop DeepGeek a line with a lengthy discussion which carried in from
November I think about corporate to discussion about RSS torrents and they are the project that's
associated with that. Again, warning there was some people report the problems playing any
episodes. If you do that email immediately admin at hackerpublicradio.org. Don't assume somebody else has
done it. Don't worry and won't bite your head off and that would be fantastic. Always, always email
admin at hackerpublicradio.org if there's a problem with the show. Aside from people talking about
food on Raspberry Pi's on the New Year's show, there was a lot of talk about hand radio and I have
a long standing request out for somebody to record a HDR show over hand radio. Now Joel Madlokton
contributor to this network and podcaster extraordinaire over on the Linux link.
Textual has mocked me. mocked me sir for me saying constantly going on about
recording this episode. How difficult can it be folks? You put a recorder next to you. You say
hello 10, 4, whatever you guys say and you talk to somebody on the other end of the line. You tell
them you record an HDR episode and you sign off. I need to submit the show. It's not that difficult.
Well thankfully John Lambini. Lambin. Sorry. Lambin. Lambin. Lambin. Sorry for murdering your name.
Has has offered to do one half of that. So if anybody out there, CQ, CQ, the KT for
Kilo Bravo, Kilo Tango for Kilo Brava, let's do a podcast via amateur radio.
Has stood up to the challenge and is willing to do a show. Okay. On some Saturnotes,
Aaron Schwartz passed away and there was some talk of doing something to commemorate this passing
and once that show comes into the queue, I think we will all assume that it'll get a high
priority and get moved up to the top. I think that kind of actually fell through. Unfortunately,
I was a person who was trying to put that together and couldn't get anyone to really show interest
in doing something. Okay. Let's have a chat offline and we will let's get something out of you.
Okay. And with talk of events folks, there's talk of stickers.
So if you want to, if you have any money left over from sponsoring Sonar Linux, you can of course
get some stickers and there's some people have, I already have some funds in the KT for getting
stickers. So be nice to have some ready for the upcoming events. We already spoke about it as
well, but need of media is running a HPR Saturday session and it came to our attention that they
mail digest. A lot of people are subscribed to the mail list. Links for the mail lists are of course
on the HPR website, on the left hand side at the bottom, under the menus.
There are links to the main page, main mail list and also the digest. Now the main mail list
generally doesn't get that many emails, so I would probably suggest joining the mail, main
mail link list rather than the digest, which only comes out once a day or so. So oftentimes there
can be a delay if we want to get something decided quickly, you're probably better off listening to
the HPR mail list. So Needle will be kind of sending, hopefully, be sending out an email earlier in
the week about his upcoming Saturday shows when there will be, so tune in to the mail list for more
information on that. I sent an email out about reassigning Tokki to me news to the Tokki to me news
team as opposed to DeepGeek directly. The reason for that is that DeepGeek does this as a service
to the community, which the community seems to respond very graciously to and have stepped up
to ease his burden on that. So as it's now a team event, let's attribute it to the TGTM news team
as opposed to DeepGeek himself, that way DeepGeek can get his shows, Tokki shows added to the
queue and not have them constantly be pumped down because he's doing this in his own time.
So as mentioned earlier, there was some comments about the intro and outro whether this should be
added or not because there's conflicting information in the feed and on the readme file and on
the contribute page. That will be fixed hopefully in the coming days as I update the various
different parts of the websites, but the simple answer to it is yes, introduce add the intro and
outro if you want. If you don't want that's fine. If you do want, if you normally do it, then we
will offer, we will hopefully do the intro and outro. One thing that I will be doing is modifying
outro to remove the reference to the sponsors so that that can be added at the beginning of the
shows and there's a long discussion in the mailing lists previously about that, why that is just
to give you a short summary of this the first time you've heard HPR. The reason for that is we want
to sort of automate the process and we also will be uploading it to various different places. So
if we're serving it from our main website, which is kindly sponsored by, well, it's paid for by
a stankdog, but it's also kindly sponsored by lunar pages. So they take a significant brunt
on providing that for us. We do have a lot of traffic and we do require quite a lot of resources,
so however, if we're sending an uptoark, I've done org, we should also thank archive.org for
their hosting of the shows as well. So that will be moved as a little bumper at the front of HPR,
so the show is brought to you by lunar pages, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
So that way people can add the intro and out, show if there are so wished. If they don't, that's fine as
well. We have ways to get around that.
And finally from the mailing list Klaatu reported that he has streaming radio.
He has streaming radio. Pitt'sberg's art.
burghart.org port 8000 is streaming Hacker Public Radio shows as is live.hacker Public Radio
.org. However that brought up an interesting that was prompted of course by the by the previous
show about automating radio stations and Dasmann reported to us that he also is running a part
15 radio station from his house which is a I believe a low powered radio station and in his
request he although it's not strictly required by the FCC and he requested that we put on a
not safe work flag or which would technically work out to be a something like the explicit flag
which is in the which was added by iTunes actually. There was previously an attempt to put in
a different classification scheme for podcasts which would be voluntarily supported by the
podcasting community however that fell to the wayside due to politics or whatever so that is no
longer supported so the only way you can signal relatively standard wise that a podcast is
safe for work or clean is using the iTunes namespace edition called explicit.
Now all the shows on Hacker Public Radio are marked explicit so this
suggestion was that we would well don't think the suggestion was particularly about how to do it
technically but whether it should be done and the vast majority of the community were whole
heartedly in favor of adding the flag so therefore if you are updating if you're uploading
you show there will be a option in your upload form to put in whether it's safe for work or clean
over whether it's got any profanity or basically a warning in any way that could be interpreted
as adult content or not safe for worker not safe for family friendly.
Somebody on the mailing list objected strongly and that somebody was me
in the guise of being a regular HPR contributor as opposed to being the HPR admin.
Now for new people who are listening along for the first time it became obvious to me
actually over the new year show that people thought things that HPR is my deal that I set it up
and that I run us and all the rest but this is just a reminder to everybody else if you don't know
already. HPR has been running for quite a long time there's quite a lot of information on the
above page about where it came from radio free-comerica then to two independent podcasters started
their own radio free-comerica wanted to promote hacking and the idea of rather than hacking being
the negative thing where you find hacks and you keep them to yourselves that you would share
them with the community. That's the whole point of that and two individual projects started
up almost the emphanoma computer club, troops and the guys and the other one was binary revolution
radio which is stankdog and those two guys ran their own podcasts and the very last episode of
emphanoma computer sorry of radio free-comerica they proposed hacker public radio as a daily news
discussion time show that they were put on. Anyway, troops, troops's show emphanoma come kind of
featured out and then when that stopped they started up a thing called today with a techie which
is the original source direct source of hacker public radio even the CMS that I've been working on
all week has been written by troops and that then stankdog became a after 300 episodes today with
a techie was never a fantastic name to be honest, not the HPR is really a good neither but
today with a techie merged into hacker public radio became an official bin rev project and
by official that means stankdog pays for the poll hosting he has a nice big bill every month
that he gets which is only as I as I mentioned before kindly sponsored by lunar pages so
that is who pays for HPR however it was originally run admined by enigma and then
then enigma life basically happened and then I just stepped in to help out now again I had my
intention to replace myself with a bash script and go back to hosting shows I am not
I am not hacker public radio by any stretch of the imagination so if I strongly disagree with
something as I did in this case I will not let that interfere with what the community wants just so
we make that clear so the community decides the direction of hacker public radio just so you all know
okay and with that in mind it is now possible to filter shows based on their
clean their explicit rating so if you submit a show hacker public radio and you feel that
it's not going to offend anybody then you can flag that we'll add that as the show goes up we
will set it as been clean iTunes parlance as an explicit equals zero and then if you want to produce
a feed that is just consists of clean shows then you can tag on question mark explicit equals zero
to any of their feeds and they will automatically filter out anything that is marked as clean so
in order to do that there was quite a lot of back end work that needed to be done some of
what I actually we wanted to do for quite a long while anytime I hit the feeds start doing
anything with the feeds there's like 23 gigs on the end of some of the big ones so anytime I did
anything with those I am very very sober about about doing this as you can imagine so I took the
opportunity to add in functionality for other stuff as well so some more I've met the database
changes for that and so therefore some more functionality will be coming through shortly
and as you know shortly is a very flexible word in my book however so what I like people to
well actually what I would what I as an admin would like you to do is submit shows with
saying that your shows your new shows are explicit or not and I would also like you to
if your back shows you feel that all your back shows or some of your back shows are clean then
just send me a link of what what shows you are clean or not and I will update them I personally
as a HPR host and community member think this is a very bad idea to attempt to
regulate morality but hey what can you do so but one thing to be aware of is one of my major
concerns about this is that none of the definitions of what the FCC or indeed Apple consider to be
to inappropriate or explicit are defined clearly so you can have a look at the policies and just
realize that if you're going to do it and you're in any doubt please mark it as explicit because
we will lose something like 7 to 20% of our listeners in one go if Apple decides that HPR is
incorrectly flagging any of its shows and I don't think there's any way to any recourse in that
so they would just disappear off the face of the earth and can Apple's decision would be
perfectly arbitrary and wouldn't be necessarily any real method to what they're doing that we could
just say and it's just arbitrary on their part right yeah my understanding is it works on the
basis of I'll I'll know what it is when I see it they if we look at what they do when banning
applications where you see it more or at least it's publicized more about them banning applications
into the app store it's it's kind of arbitrary so when in doubt don't assume definitely don't
assume that anyone here any of the admins will be listening to the shows because we do not listen
to the shows before the podcast we do not listen to the shows before the podcast it's two reasons
for that one is we're admins and we we're just community host members as I've just gone and
explained to you so therefore it's up to the you the community to decide you know if the show is
explicit or not we're not policing it in any way and under the conditions of the DMCA
if we don't do any editing of them then we have a little bit more coverage they
bit more risk of not being shut down I'm not really stupid laws folks I really think he
he any do go a long way to get in some of these stupid laws repealed call your Congress
critter and I'm with you I think that playing it safe is probably the best and just keep
marking shows as explicit I would not want to have anything happen that's not good for HPR
so that's my feeling I mean we've always had yeah we've always had this open door policy and
to be honest I don't think there are many shows that they would that should be marked as explicit
this one is because I said a bad word earlier on and I don't think any of my shows do have
bad words in them because I deliberately got my way or I did go out my way not to put them in
but I can't be sure because culturally in Ireland we have a different view on the words
that we just use them more expressively I guess and it's not there's no social taboo about using
those words some words yes all the words no funny that but I trust they HPR community and a lot
of guys and girls when I say guys I mean girls obviously when you're doing your shows if you're
being careful and you think it's fine then just mark it because you take responsibility as
you always have so the only thing this change in is you're making a conscious decision to go okay
here and if you want to get a little get just banned from iTunes but then again yeah if we get
banned from iTunes is not the end of the world I would actually be more concerned about you know
we built up this you know people like Dustman who would then use that and then filter it and then
be playing it to his friends and family and then they would be exposed to an appropriate material
accidentally I would be more concerned about that from an ethical point of view because we have
given our trust to him that we would do it properly but then again in my time that I've been involved
at the HPR community I have not had one case where I have thought that anyone has
done not done the right thing so yeah far ahead so it really would be on a rebroadcaster
shoulders to kind of review and they should take responsibility for that as well my feeling
yeah I would agree with you if you've read my email but it's it was a bit harsh and as he said
and I do apologize for anybody who got offended by the harshness I was a bit shocked that I
press and but I did so it's out there but that said you know there are some topics that I know
that I know I will be covering that I will mark his explicit even though I'm not
we're using those bad words simply because they are of you know they're mature there's mature content
and you know if you're just talking most of the stuff that we're talking about is just technical
stuff there is no way you could turn it into porn if you try you know so the function is there I
I've done a lot of effort to to get it there so if people could use this I'd appreciate it
and if people wouldn't use it I'd also appreciate it there you go that's the
there you go safe flop you're not the only one with with jewel personalities on the network
okay um I apologize if that offended you
uh website changes yes that did prompt me to do a lot of website changes as I said um I don't
like to change the RSS feeds at all because there's so many people pulling off on them but what I
did now was just write one feed and consolidate all the other feeds down into that and that
feed is um is then going to be the one that you'll be able to do additional that's the
feed that you'll be able to do additional filtering on so uh well the a lot the oil will be
able to do it it's basically just to simlink into this to the main feed and then depending on the
name of the feed is filters they the shows up by orgspeaks and orgspeaks and mp3 and also by
the length and whether it's just the 10-day show or the full feed that you get so that's kind of
cool would be adding some additional stuff in there which will make my life easier hopefully
and will make some other requests that people have made as well um with that in mind I have done a
yeah I've updated the calendar page now which has now got uh
due to the the new way that we're going to be posting the shows and encoding them and stuff
they're going to be and the new priority releasing so uh I've basically added the scheduling
guidelines on what it is so uh we schedule based on the guidelines agreed with the community which
should be fair um shows are not normally cute unless they convert it so we do the time critical
once first which we'll try to uh then we do the reserved slots um and then we do the schedule
slots which are not going to be issued anymore um without approval by the mailing list and the
probation period then we will do the normal priority and this is the first month that the normal
priority uh kind of kicked in where we had uh shows from um based on last released time of uh the
show hosts so um the uh which so they uh the database is query then on you know when who
rather than the show get being submitted like on first come first serve basis in which case they
all would be uh going to 50 150 um who has three shows at the top of the queue then we have
dude man then we have a hookah with uh one two two four five four shows and two other processing
rules Charles and LJ another 50 150 Delwin and Poki and then City um those are the orders of the
show hosts as published but the orders of release will be Poki uh CT um Delwin um cut in P
and so forth so depending on when you last release your show they'll be coming up so I updated
the um the page I've met some other changes to the websites as well which uh which kind of
nobody will notice but I'll know that they're still need to update the um contribute page the
read me the intro and the outro and uh oh yeah the trans code script may be broken so I need help
with that I've already mentioned it and I cannot get the archive of the mail list to work um I've
Josh has tried Josh is the admin from lunar pages he's tried basically a lot of things to get a
work in and it just doesn't work so um I'm gonna try making another mailing list and see if that
one starts archiving or not and uh that's pretty much it then again a reminder that uh
sonar fundraiser we need you to go over and uh support our project and get the word out and
you know send as Jonathan says send emails round to you've written a mailing list to a particular
mail you know a log or whatever bring it up with your log bring it up in your work
printout stickers whatever you need to do posters whatever you need to do to get uh to get him
get some publicity on this and the only other thing I'll say is that there are only 14
shows in the queue but what's more worrying is that's one two three four five six seven eight
there are 14 shows but there's only eight holes who have uh shows in the queue so that essentially
is uh a little over one and a half weeks before we'll be recycling holes so before
our host will have two shows coming up so that's a bit concerning um I think especially after
the new year show I mean this time last year we had uh we had nearly 30 40 shows in the queue so uh
folks yeah get out your recorder start sending me shows so again I'm one of the goals that I have
when attending the Linux Fast Northwest is to try to get at least two contributors I know I
attended last year I don't know that I'm a very good person but I don't think that I actually
got any contributors and I would like to get some contributors if anyone knows of a way to make
them go great or whatever um you know let's have added I'd like some suggestions and added did
what I could and got some interviews in that and you know I'm not really skilled at that so let's
um get back to me if you can't on that yeah sure well in fact I can talk to you about it now
I um my vast experience which is going to come twice um I would I learned quite a lot the first time
well first first thing is um I think the approach that we need to take uh sputes is that we're not
promoting ourselves um and if we can get across that across two people that is the main goal we're
promoting them it's the other way around so if you can print off um you know an eight three or
you know a large you know a large poster or something saying with words like come talk to us about
your project that's what we want get an interview is one thing um and that's how you can get them in
but you can also say to people look um um yeah here come on we'll do an interview and we'll
promote your project on our on Hacker Public Radio which is just a sort of tech news outlet
or whatever you want to say one thing that was very useful last year was the um was
the linuxlink.net recent podcast thing so we have a script that ran and produced a list
of current linux podcasts based on their last released date you know tech podcasts there was a
um a question of when ground to the mailing list asking for a list of tech news podcasts or tech
podcasts and that was kind of cool you know as people were going sheepishly by the booth wondering
what Hacker Public Radio was and a bit concerned because it had a word hacker and
um although you're at a hacker convention but okay fine anyway you you know I was able to give them
the uh the leaflet and say okay here's the list of all um hacker you know hacker and tech related
podcast tech related podcast linux related podcast and that kind of pulled them in it was a great
way to pull them in and then of course you're talking to them and then of course you say well
if you're interested in podcasting you know here's the way to go um you can send us in a show and
just slip them a business card in a way you go I think one of the things it is really important
is for people to understand that they're already wearing the ruby slippers I know that I've um
got the some uh guy I want to get back with the catchment interview I just have them
able to because I moved and there's been some complications but they have the ability to get on
Hacker Public Radio and post their own show and that's the message I tried to get across to people
but people seem to want to have someone interview them and I know there's a little bit of work in
editing a show but I am probably one of the worst for having tech abilities and I was able to get
a couple shows up yeah absolutely there there's um volunteers um who have stated that they will
help editing shows so even if you're going to any of these fest just dump up the web files um up to
the FTP server or wherever contact us drop box or whatever wherever you put them and then well
that it's not a problem it's I can do it in my sleep and ideally if people come up to your booth and
say you know okay you're you're about projects you know talk to me about project you know what
is Hacker Public Radio well we're just a network but you know you can talk to us about your projects
so what are you doing and then would you like to do an interview now or better yet we can get
released faster if you actually um if you want to do the show yourself as a HPR contributor you
can send it to us but yeah people probably like to listen to the shows first I think um actually
HPR is known because people have uh Linux best Northwest of course Code Grunture is there
the year before and I was kind of hoping to kind of link up there and you know be a helper but the
people knew about Hacker Public Radio and they were pretty impressed and I noticed a couple of the
people that I interviewed have that on the website that they have the interview there and of course
they weren't all that great but you know there was something and so I just that's of all I guess
is to get people to contribute not to necessarily do anything else by being there is to get the network
noticed and people using it yeah absolutely but it's also good there are really enjoyable time to go
there if you're going to show and there's a chance for you to represent HPR it's really it's
it's great laugh it is good crack and yeah you're doing a good thing right unless anyone else is
anything else I think I'm gonna wrap it up for the night can I will just mention that it is
looking right now at the um sonar project there 10% to their goal so people will be listening
to this later and so I want to just make mention of that again for people to contribute small
amounts of money add up if a lot of people do it yeah they have 50 funders I hope that by the time
the show comes out you know that'll be up to passing the 6,000 mark that will be fantastic so
come on guys it's only seriously it's only the price of a cup of coffee and if you can't afford it
and you know times are tough on all the rest then please do the pimping thing on the social networks
yeah and with that I'll want to thank you guys for joining us here and you guys for listening on
the HPR network and yeah that's a full note there thank you again and tune in tomorrow for another
exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio
you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio or Hacker Public Radio. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show like all our
shows was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself if you ever consider recording a podcast
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the
Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicum Computer Club. HPR is funded by the binary revolution
at binref.com all binref projects are proudly sponsored by linear pages. From shared hosting
to custom private clouds go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise
today's show is released on the creative commons, attribution, share a line, lead us our license.
