Episode: 1826
Title: HPR1826: HPR Community News for July 2015
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1826/hpr1826.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 09:52:15

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com, get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15, better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Ballon, you're listening to Hacker Public Radio, joining me tonight is...
Hi Dave Morris.
Hi Dave, this is the community news show for July 2015, community news is a look about what's going on in and around the HBR community as done on the list, the comments, the episodes and the other stuff that happens to come along.
Unfortunately this month there are no new hosts which is very sad, otherwise we would have introduced them.
Where it goes I guess we've been lucky, we've had quite a lot of hosts pretty much all this year, haven't we, every month?
Yeah it's been not too bad, but another way you can contribute to HBR of course is to get a lot of people to contribute.
So as we always do, we go through our, what's in our bag, sort of stuff.
And this month, sorry, what we normally do is go through the episodes quickly and we'll also do any comments that happen to be associated with the episodes.
The first up last month was 18 or 3, what's in my bag?
He's dead, describing his daily carry year and bag.
Yeah, good stuff, I like these ones, aren't you?
I do, also a nice photograph of the stuff that he carries.
Yeah, that always adds a lot to it.
I was impressed that it's a baby changing bag he uses and having reused all the baby stuff from years ago, this house, I'm most impressed by that.
It's such a good idea, there's lots of compartments and stuff usually in those things.
Yeah, they're very practical things.
I use a Rucksack and has, has a lot more likely than a lot to just repurpose whether they have laying around.
That's true, high 50, I presume it's 50.
Hey, again, I'm coming today from the green room of the state league Lakeside Manor.
Yes, HBR listeners and friends, after a year, I'm home.
Well done, congratulations.
Very good.
Yes, I think we're just going through the episodes were on the first one, episode 18 or 3, what's in my bag?
And he's using a shoulder messenger bag, I use a Rucksack because even though nightwise,
considers people who wears Rucksacks to be Boy Scouts, they don't damage your back as much as all the way to one side and one of those messenger bags.
Yeah, I do the same thing for the same reason.
Nightwise is just younger.
Well, I've used a laptop that originally was on an old 486 laptop, somebody gave me and never used the bag and then later it fit perfectly.
My tough book that I carried around and I've used, you know, tool bags, you know, stuff, stuff made to carry your tools in and work, work very well.
So you don't have to, you don't have to spend a lot of money on purposely build equipment bags.
That's for sure.
And 1804 is what's in my bicycle repair toolbox, one that was sponsored by you, I guess.
What's in my toolkit?
Like you, you had a what's in your toolbox is on the front stage.
Yeah, what's in my pickup toolbox?
Yeah, I really enjoyed this because I didn't realize there were so many tools, you know, non,
non generalized tools that were required to do basic bicycle repair.
I had a 10 speed in college and I think the only thing I had other, my regular toolkit was the deal that separated the chain and put it and put it back together.
But I wasn't going down and taking the sprockets apart or anything like that either.
Yeah, it like everything else, you can, you can get away without having the specialized tools.
I used to change those chains with just a so-and-off nail and a good spice.
But it's a lot, it gets a lot easier if you have the specialized tools for that.
But a nice episode from John, I think.
Yeah, some good stuff there. I was quite impressed.
I think I recognized a few of them, but because I'm with a few pictures for, you know, there you go.
So I was thinking the very same thing myself.
So the following day we had 1805, which was 56th in the Libra author series, objects and styles presentation by Huga.
And this was the introduction to the styles and impress very good stuff.
Yeah, I think I understand a lot more about how to do these types of things now.
Having listened to these, it was all the pants stuff back in the day when I used to do this type of thing.
Yeah, very much.
The following episode was community news show.
I don't know if there have been any comments on any of these Dave, have you been keeping an eye?
No, they haven't, but I think there was on the community news, wasn't there?
Oh yeah, Kevin O'Brien.
Yes, Kevin's saying, sorry, he missed the show, but he did produce four more shows over the weekend.
That particular weekend, so I think he's asked to be forgiven.
No, absolutely no need to be forgiven.
And he's uploaded a few since then as well.
So they're they're coming and he's sorted out the material on the site.
So yeah, some sort of compilation for would be nice, I think.
Do we have that as an item on the GitHub page?
Something relating to Kevin shows, but I can't remember what it is.
You wrote it.
Yeah, I posted in the links and we need to go back and add them to the show notes.
And I also wanted to put in a make a DVD available with the his shows and the material associated with them.
So we had CGM with an episode on arch Linux development environment episode one.
And this was general everyday stuff about how to install basically was a introduction to arch Linux.
Basically was an introduction to arch Linux install process and all the steps that you might go through to do it.
And very detailed show notes all very, very clear.
You could step through it and quite a lot of it would be a thing.
A thing I like about arch Linux is a lot of the commands are just the basic tools that you can use on any system.
Obviously, aside from Pacman, of course, but the rest of the stuff like FS tab and DD and that sort of thing is pretty standard stuff.
Yeah, it was a great show. I thought, yeah, I loved his amount of research.
You'd obviously put into it and worked to produce documentation is very impressive.
Well, arch Linux is a great resource no matter what distribution you're running in unlike a lot of the other documentation.
It's not just how to get an application installed, but it's how to use the applications once you have them.
Yeah, excellent resources.
It is one of these odd ball ones, the shooting of Dan McGrew by Robert W. Service.
And this was for David Whitman's birthday.
He rang red out the work. It's copyright expired. So it is now forever within the commons here on HPR.
I really enjoyed this because I know quite a...
I've attended... I don't know. Do you ever have those events around Christmas where...
Yeah, I don't Christmas or whatever the pest of season is in your parks where you go to a local drama society thing.
And there was always one gentleman who did a rendition of this.
He sends past away, but it just reminded me very much of those times.
It reminded me of family Christmases when I was very young, where various uncles would sort of stand up and declaim.
And that's the thing.
Yeah, not that particular thing.
Yeah, we had a strange family. It didn't last very long, but it did happen.
Pretty cool. Pretty cool.
Yeah, we don't have much of that over on this side of the pond.
I've never been a big fan of poetry, but if more poetry were like this, I would be.
Not 100% sure it'd be everybody's cup of tea, but I enjoyed it.
I used to enjoy it then as well.
Yeah, pretty cool.
Here's you know nine.
And there was a comment. You missed the comment.
Sorry.
The comment was from Mike. I'm not sure which Mike that was. I assumed it was Mike Gray, but he didn't say who's saying more, more.
Great. Can we have ballots of a teacher code next, which is something I know nothing of again revealing my ignorance, I guess.
I love the lines about the northern lights. He says very, very nice.
Yeah, more of the sorts of stuff. Keep it coming.
You know, the rule anything of interest hackers. There you go.
Well, following day we had the new used touch, Kindle touch.
And I had to chuckle about this.
Really his second hand stores are the thrift stores that he's going to a lot more well stocked than the ones that I have.
Same here. I've had chats with him about this.
I've been to the kids, my kids and I were in California a few years ago.
And my son was particularly keen to make a B line for the thrift shops.
I can't remember the name of it now, but fans from quite, quite cool stuff in there actually.
But as you say, it doesn't seem to be happening this side of the Atlantic. I have no idea why.
Although there's a here in the Netherlands, a cream local, a little wrinkle, a recite while they call it the circle of life shops.
And you can go in there and I just have no passing one today.
And within for a look and they were selling like old slide projectors and stuff.
And the CRT monitors and that sort of thing is where they were at.
It's over here. It seems to be massively expensive for what it is.
If you look in all this, there's so-called charity shops all up and down the high streets and side streets and stuff.
But they're all got hell of a markup on them.
Interesting.
Well, he got a Kindle touch and basically had the Kindle touch explained to us why it was better than the new ones.
And I was convinced for sure.
It was a great idea. They're really good way to do it.
Yeah, it's interesting. So they add the new hotness technology and they drop all the features that you're using.
Now they have to remove the.
They were forced by the audio people to remove the text to speech, which I personally consider to be a sin to society in general.
Okay, 1810.
Last pass hack. What does it mean?
And by a hookah who went and gave us a very good rundown of what happened and why you should be slightly concerned, but not too concerned.
Just goes to show actually that they'd sounding improves a few things.
Actually, they were doing everything correctly. They limited the damage.
They did proper disclosure and.
Yeah, you.
They seem to do everything right was still no matter how good your systems are. Eventually, they will guess breached. So there you go.
Yeah, I hadn't quite appreciated the points that hookah made that the attack was not as effective because all the headlines seem to be saying it was the end of the world and stuff.
So I thought it was quite good that he explained exactly where how much we should be concerned about it.
I mean, it does. It does highlight the.
It does highlight the reason I don't use that. I use ePass exchange or a local key pass store here, which I think sink around the file and I have.
That's from my wife. I'm from myself. I use a basically encrypted text file for my passwords. So yeah.
Yeah, I don't use last pass either for the same reason, but a lot of people do. I know 50. What do you use?
Well, I mean, like a lot of these times here about hack. Place a hack.
They don't get the hash for the passwords. They don't have a whole lot. There are some things like the first Sony hack.
They said, well, they got your email addresses, but they don't they don't have your password. So there's.
Oh, she can do.
All on use island use island. Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop. Hello, hello, 50 earth calling 50 coming over.
You're dropping in and out. I don't know if it's everybody or just me.
Same here. What sort of a connection have you got now?
It's the same password for everything. Fine. They're fine there. I can't hear. What are you saying? Can you do?
No, I can't. He's spading in and out. 50. We can't hear him. 50.
On another site that's kind of secure. We got absolutely none of that 50. You were cutting in and out a little. Can you hear us?
Yeah, I was just looking looking. I'm here on the phone. I see a download going right that I didn't start. I was trying to kill it.
Okay, well, we didn't hear any of what you said. So she did the pieces. Did you mean you didn't hear just now?
You didn't hear what I said or you. No, you went. You had the last monologue. We didn't hear anything. You said.
I was just saying something about a hookah.
Sad.
Well, at least I should hear about somebody getting it. It's not as bad as you might think as they don't.
The hash to the passwords and he did a real good job explaining how much work they would have to do.
To crack the passwords, even if they.
Yeah.
But and things like the Sony a couple years ago, the first Sony hack they got the password your hash so they got email addresses for everybody, but that was that was about it.
I don't. One of the things I don't think he clearly explained or he kind of did target the attack against you.
If you're going for targeted attack against a particular individual.
This makes it a lot easier if you do know the salt because you can use that salt.
Then to generate the hash tables and the hash tables can then be used to brute force or not to brute force to work out what the password was based on the hash.
Do you know?
Okay, I'll give a quick.
My understanding of what salt is.
You had in a regular password system, you can create what are called rainbow tables.
So you can take the letter a however many letters.
So you can start with a, a, a, a, a, a, b, a, a, c and you can work out the hash for each of those.
And if you do that, distribute it over several computers or botnets, then you can create rainbow tables that run into several different several gigabytes of data.
And sometimes even turbines of data, depending on the length of passwords that use in the different combinations.
So that way once you have the rainbow tables generated, you can then take any hash and you can go, it starts with the, it starts with the number two.
So you go into the DVD that has the number two.
And then the next number is a, the next number is a, and you go to a, and then it's very easy to having the hash to find out what the password was because you've worked out all the possible passwords.
What salting does means that for every single person, the rainbow tables would need to be generated for every individual person because you put in a salt in front.
And you say, I hash it with my, my salted pass, my piece of salt, whatever that happens to me.
If you don't know the salt, it makes it extremely difficult because you need not only is your password gotten longer by the length of the salt or by the algorithm that use, but it also becomes unique to you so that it makes this very, very expensive computation wise to generate all these rainbow tables.
However, if you do know the salt as they do know now in this case, and they're able to get your hash through one means or another, as in they're able to get it flying through the wire, then it is possible that they will be able to generate for targeted individuals, you know, rainbow tables.
And that's not to say it will be impossible to do. It would just make it, and if it makes it not worth a while for a regular, and Joe Schmoh on the street because it'll take thousands of dollars to do.
However, if you're going after somebody in particular, then it makes it a lot easier to target that particular individual.
Right, who did mention if you have the resources of say a nation's, the individual is pretty, pretty much out of luck.
Yeah, exactly. So, but if any of this or anything that a hooker says is incorrect, feel free to do a show about it.
One thing I didn't want to throw out there, it seems a lot more dangerous than this while picking up stories for the KPO that wasn't aired last week or didn't get recorded.
One of the ones I came across is a life lock. I don't know if you guys see, you haven't probably seen the ads over there at the company president putting his social security number on type of the truck side of a truck.
And, you know, that that was the game at go, you know, we'll, we'll keep a watch on your credit cards. And if anybody opens an account in your name and blah, blah, blah.
I didn't realize I knew that gotten in trouble a few years ago. I didn't realize how bad it was from this. This is a recent article.
A cordon article, apparently they stored everything on their servers in plain text and got poned.
At least by understanding from an article, I don't know, I don't have internet yet except for the phone. So I can't open, I can't open article and look at it right now.
But the reason this came up again, whatever regulatory agency got on and find them in the first place, I think it was the FTC said, published here it is three years later and they haven't changed anything.
There are some under, I guess, under the exact nature of what they're going to slap them down this time on is still class well, not classified, but they haven't released exactly what the circumstances are of this time.
But essentially, I think from the article down to they we've given them three years to clean up their act and they really haven't done anything.
And there's a lot to be said for running your own stuff if you can secure a credit.
Okay, the 1811 life and times of a geek part two by Mr Morris, excellent, excellent show Dave, I even downloaded much of those videos, very impressed at your history background, I must say.
You can see why it took me six months to prepare this apart from motivation going in and out, but yeah, I got lost looking at all this stuff and remembering things.
And there's quite a few comments, Charlie Egbert says my father worked for control data, I started coding a Fortram myself in 1975 post Vietnam.
It was very interesting to hear your experience, I felt very embarrassed of the people who didn't have to punch their own software.
Yes, and I responded to that saying, yeah, we got it, cards punched for up for free by the data preparation staff, but there was the opportunity to learn how to operate a card punch, which you do if you just had a few cards to insert into a deck or something.
And card punches are quite smart, you couldn't, you had a programming facility within them, you put a program card into into the thing, which did things like jumping to the right column and that type of thing as you were as you were punching them up.
So I said to Charlie, perhaps you should do a show about his own experiences on HDR.
And then we also had a comment from Mike Gray, a high Dave in an emergency queue, there's a short did about a thing I made out of an empty cereal box.
Some of them on the knitting needles and some punch cards when there was about seven under supervision on my brother who was more geeky than me.
It was like the thing you described pulling a knitting needle out of the box met the card drop out at the bottom that corresponded to the needle that was pulled.
I used bamboo versions of a bamboo skewer in the show version in Cobal.
I seem to remember the sequence number were in columns one to six column seven was a master for a comment and a solid use for a continuation or nothing.
And I said, glad you liked the episode, your emergency show sounds like fun.
My kids would have liked that when they were young. I'm sorry, we didn't think of something similar.
He was referring to the punch card thing, the edge punch cards that I was talking about that people did use quite a lot in those days for sort of hardware database type of thing.
And yeah, I said I'd forgotten the layout of Cobal cards, didn't do a lot of Cobal, only a couple of programs in the river.
And that was just to prove that I could do it. It's quite right of course.
And if you want to hear that show that he's referring to, if you go to the calendar page, it's under emergency shows and those the emergency queue is intended only to be used in case where there is still a gap in the schedule 24 hours part.
There are seven emergency shows all are available in which in MP3, I can speak format and the show notes are also available.
So the next show was headphones and the $2 microphone by John Cobb and gives a rundown of his mics and I really like his mini lapel.
It seemed to work quite well.
Yeah, I followed his lead there and there's a thing by set of three for some small of small number of pounds on Amazon.
So I got them laying on the table in front of me. I haven't used them yet, but they look fine and they sound great as you say.
I think there might be interesting for you know, plugging into a splitter and into one of the zooms for recordings. I'd like to check that out see how it works.
Yeah, yeah, you're thinking of having one for the interview or want the interview.
Correct. Yeah.
And you left some comments. Do you want to read it yourself or shall I do that for you?
I said to John, I loved the ambient sounds. It was very enjoyable. It was fun to be accompanying you on your walk.
Thanks for the description of what was going on around you and some of those headphones sounded interesting as did the microphone.
It was interesting. It's how close he lives to his work. Oh my god.
Five seconds. You could run over. Yeah, yeah.
Well, it sounded like he's got an interesting walk too, but judging by what he was telling us about.
Exactly. And then you reply back about the heavy breathing. Thanks Dave. I enjoyed recording this way, but I'm not a fan of the results on heavy breathing planning to record brief outdoor episode today.
But I think I'll just sit by this one for something. No, actually, I didn't didn't find it at all distracting.
It was like you were just walking along with somebody and they were breathing and talking.
Well, that's what I said in reply. I said it's not heavy breathing. It was just breathing and it didn't bother me at all.
As you said, it is what happens. You're breathing rate changes as you as you move. You may be walking up a hill or something.
You know, and when you're walking and talking that, that happens to me.
And the clue was in the description, the summary, which is right out. I talk about my very, very sad phones as I walk to my office.
So yeah, there was no, should have been no surprise there from you.
And John Corlus said, I agree with Dave. He was really enjoyable to listen to the very informal nature of joining you on a walk to work and hearing commentary about what you saw along the way was at least as fun as the intended content on the headphones, which was also good.
Thanks, John. So 100 cents approval rate there for John's episode.
Yeah, I just love to hear. You know, you can form a picture of the scene in your mind as you listen to that. So I think that's a great thing to do.
Absolutely. Very, very true.
Okay, they 1813 went to go again with three episodes wasting episodes by putting them into into one show up.
Spelunking surf lightyear and FB term, apt splunking is a silly term that he made up the act of searching to a Debian repository looking for random stuff.
Did any of you get a chance to use any of these apps?
I didn't, I followed them up to the extent of just checking out what they were, but I didn't actually, I tried to FB term it. I couldn't get it to work. I did try that.
But I didn't spend a lot of time trying to make it, make it run.
It seems like I got very worried about that lighty years because it sounds like the sort of game that I would find myself going, this is ridiculously simple.
And then 48 hours later, they're still working away.
I try very hard to avoid those sorts of things. He says, I know how easy it is to fall into that black hole.
And the lightweight graphical browser is always handy to have. And I have tried this one because I, when testing the website, I downloaded everything with web browser on there.
And yeah, it does what it says on the team. It's very, very simple.
Yeah, when they go, I just seem to have a tremendous compendium of fascinating programs, actually.
He's mentioned other things in other contexts, which are really, really cool. More, please more.
And his avatar is extremely interesting. He needs to explain it.
I know, I've looked at that and wondered what's going on.
It's just really context, really context.
Speaking custom context menus in the school, you find managers, see what I did there. See what I did there.
You forget in the comments, you can do it.
Oh, please do, please do. Yeah, sorry. I'm new to this.
So we had one comment from one of these hexadecimal chapies who always throws me with the handles 0x f10e.
Do you say the 0x if it's just f10e? Well, I don't know. I mean, it's there, isn't it? I mean, you know, it's hex.
You would know it's hex by the fact that it's got hexadecimal things. I don't know, I don't know. We should ask the.
I once made a mistake of applying to an email, capitalizing somebody's handle. They were not amused.
Oh, yes, that's not not polite, I think. Anyway, grumpiness was a comment.
And the question was, you mean get grumpy like a cis admin or network operator when someone breaks their network?
I forget the context now. Do you remember? I don't actually.
It made sense when I was listening to the show or soon after. But anyway, the other comment, the other remainder of the comment was, by the way, did you know M player has FB dev video output?
So you can play videos on the frame buffer too.
Yes, to which you reply is he did not know about that option. And it sounds like a wonderful project.
M player is absolutely awesome what that thing can do. You know, you can play videos in a in asking mode. Yes, why would you ever do that?
Go on. I've never tried. I've never tried to do quite. Why would you want to do that, Ken?
I my job title is senior video and demand engineer. And sometimes you tell us or SSH into a server on the other side. And you can connect to this.
You can connect to the set up box port and check to see if the video is actually playing on that side using ASCII.
And then you go, right guys, it's playing there. Well, the stream is that part. Can we please move on?
It sounds good. I can't ever imagine wanting to do that myself, but I'm impressed that you have a use.
It's, yeah, it's for quite a lot of things. You'd be surprised, especially, you know, podcasts or whatever you can.
Yeah, you get a lot out of just playing as an ASCII. But FB dev is actually also pretty cool. You know, really, really small system. Boom. And up becomes pretty cool.
And it was worth the effort of showing up today just to hear a legitimate use case for ASCII video mode. I just thought that was something they were forward and threw in one day.
Oh, that saved me so many times. You just prove the video is getting that far. Look, it's playing there on this port on this server.
All right. Thank you very much. Move on. Not my, not my problem from here on that.
Well, quite a lot of them. If you just squint a little bit, you can get more or less the movie where it is.
Sound like the matrix to me. If you want to dead a video, whether you're looking at an ASCII or, you know, if you want an in and out scene, you just want a particular scene, quickly view it an ASCII, get the in scene, the out scene, edit the video to that point.
Hundreds of uses for it, guys. Hundreds of uses. No one seems convinced.
We believe it. All right. All right. All right. All right.
Watching videos or work, you know yourself. Nobody's got the pink animals stupid enough to watch ASCII.
If you're just interested in the soundtrack. All right. All right. I'll stop. Anyway, John's next one was custom context menus in GNU and Linux.
We found out yours and those 100% sure. Did he mention any of the KDE ones like Dolphin or whatever is that sport of them?
I don't think he did. And because as I listened to it, I rushed off and tried to get find out how to do it with Dolphin and it is possible.
There's a lot more involved than at least with Thunar, which I have managed to get working.
It seems like a absolutely awesome little thing to be able to do. It's kind of thing to do.
Yeah. Adding your own custom menus, that's really right click and, you know, destroy a planet. Excellent.
The following day, 1815, Libro office and press style and objects to drawing an object.
And this is that I could never understand why Libro office and press was doing all this stuff.
And then the moment it's, you know, it's that they're using the same.
The drawing objects are the are being shared between two components. So that just explains so much stuff to me.
It means you can do some pretty cool slides, I guess, doesn't it?
Yeah, exactly. At the start of the the impress series, I didn't think I was going to be getting anything from it.
But actually, it's been probably more informative than any of the other ones.
It's quite a lot of the stuff was just refreshing, but this is all kind of new stuff with impress.
I don't really just slap a presentation together and be dormant.
Yeah. Yeah. I do know what you mean. I felt the same way, even though I haven't done a presentation.
I haven't done a presentation with anything for many years. But no, it's a good point.
Were there any comments from any of these tools?
None on either of the last two, no.
And there's none on visualizing HDR tags. Dave, I think I think you went out on one on this.
I am 100% sure that in the fullness of time, I will be coming back to this after two hours of frantically searching to remember where exactly I heard about this too.
And that's where I'm filing this and then wonder.
I have to admit that this was the result of me thinking, it's about time I did a show.
What can I do or not? Oh, I know. I'll just do that.
And then afterwards thinking, I think I maybe, maybe lost my audience a bit on that one.
Still, it's not. No, well, you didn't.
I particularly like the HTML, the I called, you call this sort of thing, Dave.
I cry a little inside of my code.
It's not as nice.
You just need to feed it through the poll tidying stuff.
Ah, pretty fast. Pretty fast.
Yeah, I think.
I think if I did that, the thing would get again sentience so that it could come around and snap me about the face for producing such bad code.
It does sometimes tell you your code is rubbish.
Or if you run it through the thing that matches up with the Pearl-Best Practices book, which is a massive tome on how to write Pearl and not to write it.
So there's a whole library which will read the full script and complain about it.
Then my goodness, me, you think, well, I've done a good script here and it comes back and says, no, this is rubbish. It's too long.
It's quite sort of chastising process. It makes you stop and think.
Yeah, I'd like actually to find wonder if there's anyone out there who's got a better use for graph is than this.
You know, one that's not about to find the point is that there's too many tags for this to be useful either.
Yeah, I know, I know.
I did say as much both in my notes and in the show, but it was really just a thing.
I wonder if this will work and why don't we share this sort of thing that's going on there.
Yeah, graph is this very, very good. You can do some really clever stuff. I just don't know enough of it to make what I did look good.
Yeah, if you, if there's anyone out listening, you know, I'll say I'm graphing problems in general.
There's a requested topic for a new plot and we could definitely put this up there as well for visualization tools.
I think that would be something that a lot of people would like to have.
A lot of people struggle with it. I know I do.
And sometimes I have quite a lot of data that I can read myself, but to put into presentations is something having a graph makes a lot more sense for other humans.
Well, one of the uses that I have made of it in the past, not directly, but through the Gramps genealogy program.
I haven't seen it for years.
It has a family tree. It's got lots of plugins. One of them is a graph is thing and it does a huge, huge family tree thing that shows all the relationships between all the people that you have in your database.
And I had an access to an A3 printer at one time that I could produce quite tiny little writing trees on.
And great thing to stick up on the wall if you're into that sort of thing.
I am indeed Dave. I am indeed. I do have my family tree in Gramps.
I have it on my list of stuff that I'd like to do is to use a projector to project it onto the wall and then go over with ink and ink it in.
Yes, that's a good one. Yeah, yeah. It's quite interesting and sometimes you can get your kids interested in it.
I think I've more or less failed it when I tried it.
But I believe that it's quite nice if you can interest your children in this sort of thing possible because otherwise the whole family tree business can just fall by the way.
And besides, you know, because it needs to be carried on from generation to generation if you possibly, you know, the knowledge about this generation.
Well, it's an interesting day of you. You mentioned children and can can fall and mentioned doing presentations.
I presume for supervisors and it just seems to me a direct correlation between the types of information that you have to have to provide to both group groups.
You can't go too deep, but it's got to be something they can immediately understand.
Yeah, I think you're right. I think you're right. Hello, the prospect of doing a presentation for your kids. I'm not sure how many of it.
What are you talking about, children? What did you learn about presentation breakfast?
That's right. Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Get the screen and the projector out. Oh, right.
The following day was one of these episodes where I went jumping around the house like a little happy bunny.
It was 1817 gathering parts and it is in my bill talking about the process.
He goes through when starting an electronics project and this to me was so simple.
So really an obvious that I had never thought to actually do this. The amount of electronic projects I've started and found that I was missing a piece and then had to order something.
And then it comes back and something has been dumped on the table and the whole thing is just a regular on mess.
This is absolutely excellent. And I can put it into a little plastic bag, all the components with the list.
And then just leave it there as a project ready to do for when I do get all the components. Excellent, excellent, excellent.
And I like his idea if you're ordering, you know, you find you need resistor X, you might as well order 20 of them because the shipping is going to be as much as the cost of multiple units.
Absolutely. He also had a very good tip of going to the one site and making a shopping list and adding everything to that and then logging out and logging back in and taking stuff off the list.
And only buy in the things there that you absolutely need, absolutely needed. I know deal extreme offers that as well as an option soon.
Excellent, excellent tips. Nothing like there was nothing about the show that was like mine. It could be its electronics, but it could equally be repairing your lawnmower or something.
You know, it was just here's how to approach a complex project so that you know, you can get it onto control project management.
Oh my god, project management on the HBO at last. There was also a very good thing in there that any of the ham radio enthusiasts who have to do your advanced exam should take it out.
And that is how to tell the colors of a resistor. He has like a little rhyme thing. I don't think he covered that in the episode.
He referred to the two red lips thing and he caught himself saying it and then laughed and said, oh yeah, this is how I remember stuff, but he must have come back and added this in just to fill in the gaps which I thought was fantastic thing to do.
I have a wall full of like helpful useful things and this is now added up there is that'll be handy.
When I do my ham radio exam, I'm hoping that that will come up an easy question on his history.
Yeah, impressive. Yeah.
Anyway, see prom said you're going to have a ham license. Have you seen this Arduino shield that broadcast and receives it long range and the ham frequencies and anything you think you could find a use for.
Absolutely, but I'm not allowed to honest until I have a ham license. Did you do a show about that or did I heard you talking about that and one of the other shows.
I mentioned on KPO once. Yeah, I went and looked it up after hearing you talk about that. Very, very, very nice. It's also mentioned in the dark magazine, which is the Dutch, a Dutch ham radio magazine. So they mentioned as well. It's pretty cool.
Anyway, see prompt said great show. Love the show in my bill. Definitely do an update so that we can see the result. Let us know which version of the pedal you're going to do.
You might be interested in these guys too, which is module tone.com. I used to work for them a few years ago and they have some nice quality stuff, nice kits you can build on your own and such nice vintage style amps. Thanks for the show.
Cool. I knew you replied. You send a comment in saying series on electronic components. While you might think this is obvious, this episode is a great practical tip for starting electronic projects.
Can I suggest that HTML listeners contribute a list of sites they use to get components and then we put that up on the GitLab repo and then sync it to the main HPR website. So a list of possible. And I do agree with that. That would be a great idea because I know this and obviously some good places around New York, but around Edinburgh. I don't know for England or in Great Britain in general. I'm not so sure about it.
And you said also I'd love you or someone else to do series on electronics components. This is a resistor. They look like this. They used for the cost about here are the following types, etc. etc. Again, I think that would be a brilliant thing to do.
I love that. And see from our end my bill reply back. Thanks see from that must have been an interesting place to work and there will be a follow up. I told you how I found the board layout online. So there will be some etching too.
Excellent. Good fun. Yeah, the idea did cross my mind can do an episode on each different components and we'll see if I get off my boat and do that. I really, really hope it does because I would like to get into electronics more. And sometimes I'm just, you know, when you study electronics, there's going to be guys there who will tell you technicians or whoever don't do that or do this or here's a tape. And that's the sort of thing that I really like to really felt I missed having mechanical engineering background.
The following day we had 50 and 50 18 18 a review of HBR's interview recorder, the zoom H1. Yeah, and if anybody needs or next time somebody needs that, you know, everybody keep in mind it's still still here in this room somewhere in one of these boxes.
Does that have a, because I have the zoom H2, does that happen to have a line monitor that you can listen to what's been recorded. Yeah, I believe so.
Did you use that for any chance? No, no, I just walked, well, I had one walking interview and that one disappeared.
I mean, it didn't disappear, but I mean the audio wasn't there at all. I don't know what happened on that because probably the, you know, the record.
I recorded a talk of Eric by Eric Raymond with the approval of everybody in the room that hadn't gone out yet, but you know, it was, it was like an conference room in the hotel, probably seated like 80 people would have that many in there, but it's fairly big.
And I just said it set the zoom on chair between Eric and I was in the, like in the front row, and it caught every part of it.
It caught questions from the back of the room just beautifully, but they before I was with one of the guys and I'm sorry the name escapes me from.
Well, there the, if you, if you've seen the viral video of Iron Man Tony Stark, a whole actor's name escapes me, which is ridiculous, but you know, presenting the kid, you know, with the Iron Man arm.
These were the guys, these were the guys who printed it and they came this, this was a ping-pong, and so I asked them about getting an interview and finally got back to the family the next day and they literally caught the one guy walking out of the hotel.
He said, yeah, I could, you can walk with me.
I can do an interview and you know, I was surprised. I didn't get a bit of it.
Yeah, they zoom has a, you have to press it once to get the levels and the red light flashes and then you have to press it twice or to actually record.
So I think we have all been, everybody who's owned a zoom has been caught with that, which is why I also use the backup sans a clip, which I just put on record the whole time and then just clip it to people's lapels.
And I had that exact same thing happened to me when it was recording and fast down, but I was able to recover one of the episodes from the recorder on their lapel.
Yeah, I'm not sure that was it because I got a, I got several minutes of static. I just didn't get it, get a recording.
I think if I didn't hit it twice, I would have got anything record.
Okay, well, moral of the story is have a backup device regardless.
Following a 1819 Libro office tips horizontal lists and headless operation by John Colt, no less.
And I hope it was kind enough to allow this to go into the Libro office series.
So it took me a while to get my head around what a horizontal list was and what he's trying to do.
And then I finally got it, but it's not, I must say, a use case that I have needed to have myself.
No, I could see there might be some rare circumstances where you might want to do that.
He's talking about putting in that footer or the header or something.
I quite like the idea of making columns to do it, but quite what would happen once you'd fill up all the columns.
I wasn't quite clear about presumably just rats to the first one again.
So I did another one where a image would have popped, I think.
Well, I can see, but this would have great applications for academia.
The thing is that they've most places.
I think they've moved on from actually typing up your tests in a word processor.
And it's unfortunate because at least the school that I worked for and I think this is fairly common.
They have a deal.
They have software.
They buy a great expense.
And they go online and they do these tests.
And then they project the test onto the wall of the classroom.
And each of the kids have a clicker that they select ABC or D on these multiple choice tests.
Now, I totally see why the schools do this is job retention because I think the days of the teacher spending six hours grading papers after the school bell rings is long gone.
This stuff is already, you know, it's already reported and in the automatically in the grade book.
But unfortunately, if you test like this, then you've got no opportunity to do essay questions.
I did like the tip on the headless operation, which I didn't even know was a thing in the office where you can convert to HTML convert a document to ODT.
Very handy.
That's cool feature.
Yeah, yeah, I can see my using that.
I wonder there are many other options, so I'm converting a document to a PDF, which is what I tend to do quite a lot.
Since the thing itself can do the PDFs, I would imagine the headless function would do it as well, but don't know that for a fact.
So there was no comments on that particular episode, which brings us to 1820.
Cannons is Linux Fest interview one of two with Alex Alex.
You are as horrors.
So correct.
Raxpix principle engineer.
Yeah, sorry.
I'm very, very bad at pronouncing people's names.
And this was a cool interview 50.
They seem to really.
Well, thanks a lot of it was.
And you probably saw my technique in there.
I wasn't.
And I did this with about every person that I interviewed.
From his fast, not know, you know, not.
I mean, I have a real good idea what Raxpix does and a better idea since meeting those guys at the.
At KLF, but since that's not that's not the type of service that I especially on a business level that I have any kind of.
I have any kind of experience of.
Of securing of renting that, you know, renting a server or anything.
I wasn't sure I was quite up to the task of asking the right questions.
So I came back to my old trick of saying, OK, well, that's about all ahead.
Is there anything else you think our listeners ought to know?
Always a good question.
I'm sure there are probably some people who've listened that said, yeah, why didn't you ask them this or ask them that?
Well, who in the show notes, I'm sure they'll be back next year.
Two for you.
But, you know, that and the thing I got from it, I expected Raxpix to show they were going.
They were going to be trying to sell their service.
No, really, you could definitely tell they were trying to sell themselves as employers.
Ah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
The following day we had Asian 21.
James Beard's never failed blender holidays sauce in response to the walk episode from earlier on.
Frank's describes James Beard's simple recipe.
Is James Beard a well-known thing?
I looked up a little bit about him and he was a well-regarded cook from what I saw.
I think he's got Wikipedia page.
You can read all about him.
Sounds like he's had some interesting career, but he's passed away since then.
Yeah, obviously a yard stick to go to all sorts of recipes of this sort.
Yeah, I've not heard any before this podcast, but apparently in that generation of cooks that they write the big cookbook instead of having a TV show where they yell at people and humiliate them and throw knives and such.
Yeah, probably safer.
But not when I saw this on the library, I immediately went out and downloaded it ahead of time.
But I really didn't get a chance to listen to it.
The broadcast day.
Not to not to leave anybody for an unsavory image, but it's.
You know, HPR's.
Daily format and the length is usually just perfect for.
Listening to while I shower and shave in the morning, but so I waited till then and just got it off the street, but.
This is something I really want to do because a.
A year, year and a half ago, I tried to make holiday sauce.
I don't remember what I was going to put it on in the conventional way.
You know, you used to serve one hand and you pour with the other and you're.
Staying in there for an hour and it just it was complete disaster.
So I look forward to trying this automated method.
Never never met home this was not really a good person.
I'm not a great fan of these sorts of sources personally, but.
It's it's basically a you're making in the motion.
I think it's not it's just having to mix together stuff that doesn't want to mix.
And so it's all about sort of beating the hell out of it.
I look a lot.
Well, I got it probably recipe off the internet rather than the cookbook, but.
It all every time you see the recipe.
Oh, yeah, it's there's an activity.
Really real if you fall our directions.
It's very, very sip.
Very easy.
Well, that's that's easy to say when you're writing an article on the internet.
The next one was 1822, some tips and image magic and by Dave Morris.
And this one is pretty cool, Dave.
I've used everything that you have mentioned in your show, but I am not as yet able to do shows about it due to the fact I usually do it for work.
I'm waiting for them to get to the legal department to get back to me to make sure I can talk about this stuff.
Not that it's that secret.
It's just I want to make sure all my all my shows are legally allowed to be distributed.
Yeah, fair enough.
It's it's it's not exactly world shattering stuff, but if you haven't come across the image magic capabilities, then.
You know, somebody sort of pointing at it and saying that's pretty straightforward to use.
And there's tons of information about it.
Absolutely.
To maybe maybe be helpful to people who hadn't experimented with it yet.
Well, and it's good to have an introduction to a different graphics editor because a lot of people.
Well, I think Yimp is is probably the more powerful of the two and a lot of people start out with.
Yeah, and stick with it because that's what they know, but listening to this.
Episode made me think, well, maybe I should fire up image magic because it's part it's usually installed with the distro or quite often.
And just see what it has for little simple projects, but it's quite nice that you can do batches of stuff.
You know, like that you can run through a list of files in a short script or a, you know, a command line pipe or something.
And, and do that thing that you need to do to all of them. That's the reason I use it.
I agree.
Gimp is more powerful.
As is creator, by the way, I've found creator to be damn good.
But, you know, it's just great for that sort of batch of changes that you might want to do.
There are plugins for every library under the sun for Ruby, PHP, Python, whatever.
You can download image magic plugins that you can do all these things in the language of your choice.
Guaranteed probably 90 to 99% of websites that do anything with images are using image magic in the background.
It's extremely handy for automating stuff.
So the following day we had the last of your interviews from Kansas Linux Fest.
And it was the, the owner of the organization is that correct?
Yeah, Ron, I'm Sipes.
He was, he's right after Mike Dupont, who's, you know, an HPR contributor.
He's probably, well, almost secretly responsible for the fact that there was a Kansas Linux Fest.
He restarted the local log in Lawrence, Kansas.
He is the head IT person for the public library system in the Northeast or Kansas.
That's there.
There's four or six districts in Kansas.
And apparently when he came in there two or three years ago, they were already heavily help you lock and source.
And I, you know, unlike a lot of it, go into something, have a lot of frustration pushing him towards open source there.
That they were very receptive. So I think they're pretty much 100% open source now.
As I mentioned, I don't want to hash that rehash the article. He's also a huge contributor to what the time when I interviewed him was of all OS.
And they ran into some copyright problems. So they've gone back to using the old solos OS name, even though it's completely, really completely different project for the distribution that Ike Doherty is the lead programmer on.
And this is, this is something new since Ryan has a new object that I'm sure you'll hear about in the next week or so.
It's called mycroft.ai. Well, I mean the websites, my, mycroft.ai is in artificial intelligence.
Mycroft is in Sherlock Holmes's older smarter brother. And this is a project based on a raspberry pocket. I, the release pictures, they're making cases for now, 3D printed.
I'm sure if they're going to have a quick kickstarter campaign starting this next week. And I'm sure they'd probably be going to pre print, you know, conventionally printed cases.
But what this is, I believe it's meant duplicate a lot of the functions of the Amazon echo without the processing of the voice commands having to go out over the internet to a server and come back.
So in other words, it's not, it's not there sitting there listening to everything. Well, it is listening to everything that's that's set around it, but it's not, it's not forwarding it to the internet.
I guess they're supposed to be some home automated automation functions. It's, I said, if I had a computer in front of me, I could tell you the software it's based on a voice recognition.
Well, sort of an actor, I don't know if you don't know, build to challenge the touring test that was developed by Google or develop that Google.
So there's, I essentially, I think it's going to do a lot of the functions of the echo plus a whole lot more.
So I'm just going to say, could you do a short episode whenever that kickstart it comes out and give us a summary of that?
Yeah, I will. And I've invite, he may be on one or both shows next week, because I don't have internet here other than this phone.
I don't know if I will be, but I think that this, this was beat on today's kind of trial to see if I could participate just using the phone. Sorry to ramble.
Yes, I invite, when I first up this project, I invited Ryan to come on both kernel panic augcast, that's kernel panic augcast.net kitchen.
And the Linux logcast, this logcast.com, and we're, you know, we're.
Linux logcast is going to be on.
We've lost him again.
On one or both shows.
Yeah, I'm expecting to at least because he's seen enthusiast skin.
If they get, if I wasn't going to tell Ryan this first, but if they get person, I don't think he can interrupt him with this phone.
He doesn't hear us until he stops talking.
I'm sorry, I should, I should talk in smaller bits.
Yeah, you're chopping out and you, because you're not stopping to talk, nothing is getting through to say this.
You're chopping out.
Oh, of course it's buffering.
Okay, first question, Ken.
Yeah, they're, they're only.
Lawrence Kansas is only about a four and a half hour drive.
So if mycroft.ai AI gets funded, I fully intend to drive up there some weekend and do an in-person interview with Ryan.
Excellent.
They're actually building these things at the entrepreneur that I cut out again.
Yeah, you put them in there.
Okay, let me try one sentence of the time.
If the project gets funded.
You're going to go on the interview.
Okay, okay.
And the other part was that I.
Since the Kickstarter starting this week, I expect Ryan will show up on one or both of.
Linux loadcast on Friday and the kernel panic all cast on Saturday.
Cool.
And there was one comment to the show, which was by anonymous.
Sound quality is absolutely awful.
And I will say yes, folks, the point of HBR as we will pull shows, even if the audio is terrible.
The idea here is to, if it's audible, it goes on.
You did record that with the Zoom H1, did you?
Yeah.
And I thought actually that was a lot better than in the introduction that I did under audacity.
I noticed that when I edited it.
It just seemed my part that I record under audacity was awful rough.
In fact, both of them was very, very hard to make out.
It's not the worst we've ever had.
The point we will always accept in, we will always accept audios among us.
It's at least audible.
But I did really have to struggle to listen to that one to try and get anything out of it.
I had to really do a lot of processing power too.
Which had me very surprised because the Zoom H2, the quality of the audio is absolutely superb.
I don't know what it is about the way you're doing this 50.
I don't know.
I think it may be more of a nondacity problem.
Can you send me the source files that you have from the Zoom H1?
Because I really like to get that fixed if you have better audio than this and your audacity is ruining it.
Then we really need to, we might be able to repulse that show.
Okay, great.
How about the rack space interview?
Because it was done the same way.
Yeah, if, well, we see what the source files are like.
If there is bad, then we know it's the recording.
If they're not, then we know something's wrong with the way you're addressing them.
What, what it is when I import the stuff from the H1, it sounds good.
But it's way, way, way low compared to what I'm recording locally in audacity.
I've got my mic gain all the way down pretty much in audacity.
And you can just select it.
What I usually do is I amplified it as much as it would allow me to without clipping the original file.
And I've got, I say I did not destroy the original recording.
I, you know, record, made it, made it a separate file each time I made a change.
Then exported it to flack.
And then when I got imported into the same file as my preamble, I tried to do leveling.
And that'll get a little closer.
The leveling more pulls down my native audacity recorded stuff than it raises the H1 record stuff up.
And then really what brings everything to the same level is hitting it with presser.
Yeah, I don't know.
Something, something about your setup might be right.
I just like to have a look at the files themselves and see if we can, if we can do something with the audio.
If you have the source files, I can't imagine that they, it's, it's, it's operator error.
I don't know enough about what I'm doing with audacity.
If you have said it before and I'll say it again, if people have shows send them to us with the note, please edit this.
And we can, we can edit it.
We normally don't.
I normally don't listen to them except to see if it's audible.
And that means literally if it's audible, I check the out file in three different places to see if it's audible.
And then that's it.
Because we don't censor here.
We don't.
If people have comments, we just approve them with the nut spam.
If people have shows, we approve them without listening to them.
But if there is the machine, I don't know if the owner is not nearly as powerful as the one that I lost a year ago.
So that may be, I don't know if that has anything to do with it or not.
Yeah, I'm using a crappy notebook and I've had no problems editing shows with that.
So sometimes not doing a lot of them is enough.
Okay, moving on to 1824, I'm learning some Python where John Colp is replacing some of bash scripts he talked about before for automating stuff with the equivalents using Python.
And yeah, I kind of agreed with the, it was a nice show because he didn't really go into a lot of the nitty gritty of what he's using more.
The type of things that he's using.
It's tempted to give it a shot.
Everybody seems to be jumping on the Python and just you and me Dave here on the pearl.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
I, uh, I've also been wondering whether to get, uh, get more deeply into it.
See, it's insulting. See, it's insulting.
I'm abandoning it. Sorry.
But it's, um, there's things like, for example, if you want to pass HTML 5,
then the Python offerings seem to be better than the Burl ones.
I suspect that the, that the, some of the, the, the movers and shakers have moved away from, from, uh, Pearl and have headed off elsewhere to Ruby or to, to Python.
And so, you know, there's maybe not, not the same amount of effort going into those types of modules anymore.
I hope that I'm wrong that we're not seeing the sort of slow fading of the, but, uh, there's some areas where it's not as good as it used to be.
Yeah. Now, hopefully it will come along.
Um, the next show was, uh, sorry, was there any, uh, was there any comments on that episode? I don't think so.
No comments, no.
Not yet. It's really early days yet.
He brought this template, creating a template for HPR, a hookah, and his slide master, he picked a nice, um, a nice template for this.
But we do have the original images.
So I can happily make a transparent image for the HPR logo, um, which it's one of the items to make all those images and stuff available more prominent on the website that you can get them.
So, um, absolutely no reason why the background can't be, uh, alpha, alpha transparent channel on the background for that.
And that I think was it for the shows, Dave.
Do we have any other comments that we, that were for the earlier episodes?
Yes, we do.
Um, we have a comment on show 1784, which was John Cobb's intro to a few can you open well, tempered clavier, um, from 5150 saying thanks.
It's comment is belated since I'm in to be on the community news for June.
John, since you've pulled back curtain, I will never be able to listen to music in quite the same way again.
I think I nearly skipped over this episode and only listened due to politeness.
So that's, uh, that's good.
Um, that's a good comment.
I like that.
It is actually.
And we had the other one.
Sorry, go on.
Then, uh, the next one was on 1794, which was another one of John Cobb's shows 12-tone music in my mandat random 12-tone row of the day.
Again, 50 commented on forbidden planet, um, saying this episode reminded me the theme from every sci-fi film from the 50s.
Most notably the classic, the forbidden planet.
I hope someone writes a script we can all end our voices to and you can score.
I know, I know what you mean about the forbidden planet 50.
Because there's some very, very, very bizarre sounds as they're landing on the planet.
I think it's the early part of the film, which is pretty amazing.
It's a state of the art stuff in those days, I think.
So yeah, cool.
And go on, son.
The last one was an answer to Kevin's episode on 1800 on the video, YouTube video subscriptions.
I asked him for the subscriptions and they are now all listed there on that episode.
So there's nothing stopping me doing my, so there's nothing stopping him doing.
So do me doing the show that I promised him.
Yeah, it's a very comprehensive list.
It is indeed.
I only scanned it, I haven't actually dug into it yet.
It's going to take me months to work through that, I think.
So shall we go through the mailing list then?
It's not a huge lot.
Yeah, indeed.
So do you want to start or shall I?
The pictures which, what is the start one?
So the start is Frank Bell asking, are there any specifications of pictures?
One might want to upload when posting a show.
So I interpreted him to be asking, what do I do to prepare a picture?
And I said, well, here's what I do.
And effectively, it was a sort of quick-potted version of what I did in that show about image magic.
Yeah, except, you know, it was pretty cool.
And Kevin replied that he was going to do something I'm curious.
But man, that happened for a while.
Yeah, I can understand that.
Yeah, yeah, that would be good.
I wouldn't enjoy that.
So I forwarded on that the FostM app.
So FostM is now 30th and 31st of January 2016.
We could do a table, but we need eight people.
I doubt we're going to get eight people.
So much for that.
Plus, also, the competition is very, very high, I think, isn't it?
Absolutely.
And if you were there, you would feel guilty of taking the table away from somebody else.
Yeah, exactly.
I sent out what was been interpreted as an encrypted email about the Admin email account.
And there's an email account, which is admin at hackerpublicradio.org,
that goes to me, equals to an inkmer before me,
and various different people found through the ages.
If anybody, at any time, wants to be part of that mailing list,
which tends or that, once it's a mailing list, it's more a mailing address.
It's basically first contact with the holes and stuff people asking
about something on the website or the local first off.
It's nothing ever too hairy or crazy.
If you want to do that sort of stuff, then feel absolutely free to do it.
You would need to be a court trusted member of the community,
meaning we need to know who you are.
You've done some shows that you've been around.
But basically, yeah, anyone, anyone who wants to can do that at any time.
Do you, have you been getting a lot of spam on that?
Or do you react any of the messages?
I haven't, I've only had two messages that I've noticed so far.
I spam filters must be pretty good if there's been any spam of any consequence on it.
Just a couple of things so far.
Yeah, it's nothing major.
Sometimes it's people confidentially asking stuff that they don't want to go out on to the massive mailing list
or asking how they would approach a particular topic.
Not the major.
So if you want to help out with that or you're just nosy and interested, then feel free.
However, it does come with...
Yeah, you're stepping up to the place, type of thing.
Joshua said that that's actual feature.
Forwarding is being used by Spammers for filtering, for spamming outbound.
So he probably explains why Google is considering us to be spam or something.
So he's enabled outbound spam filtering, which is a good thing.
And then we had you with the community news bulletin.
I think that was pretty much it for the mailing list, pretty much it for the comments.
Yeah, quite quiet on the mailing list this time.
Yeah, it's the middle of summer and the Northern hemisphere.
We also pushed all the code for the HPR website up to the GitLab repo.
So it's now a public repo and there's a private repo.
The private repo is called Waiting to be audited before it can be pushed to the public repo.
And the public repo is where everything will be done in the future.
So absolutely, anybody who wants to be...
to can add their account or OAuth, I think, to the GitLab.anonestools.com
who are the providers of our services.
And if you go on there, then you can add stuff like to the Requested Topics page
and that sort of thing.
If you also get...
And if you're involved with PHP at all, can you contact Admin at hackerpublicradio.org?
If you're willing to help out, auditing the code that's up there, we would appreciate that.
Oh yeah, one thing the Admin at hackerpublicradio.org gets is the notifications
that there's new shows been posted and stuff like that.
And basically you keep an eye on the queue and you just do the regular old stuff.
And if I'm not around or Davis and around, that you kind of take help out on the back.
And so to speak.
Let's see, was there anything else that came through that I noticed?
Yeah, we also get notifications of postings to Twitter.
Oh, there was a suggestion from 50-150.
50, are you there still?
Yes, sir.
Do you want to tell us about your suggested topic, please? Or shall I read it out?
Yeah, essentially, I'll try to bring it down to a couple of sentences.
This is something weeks ago we started experimenting with on the Linux floodcast is, you know,
without a formal Linux server administration background as a home user quasi professional user.
I'm not sure exactly what professional level tools that I could employ to secure my home network.
I'm thinking of setting up, you know, this is the basic thing is a as a PF sense.
He's got a firewall.
People listening at home won't get the pauses because we've done a truncate silence,
but he's kind of here and many more.
Too many words, Ken.
I'm afraid so.
I'm afraid so 50.
I'm really looking forward to when you get into that connection.
What I want to do is have people comment on who who are system admins for website web servers for server farms.
What what free and open tools that they implement to secure their systems that could be implemented on a home network?
How about I read it out here using my internet connection.
Question one, beyond the firewall IDS, ISP, IPS, what do I need?
I've started listening to security weekly and they suggested an IDS behind your firewall as you're to record what your primary defenses missed.
Where and how do I set this up?
Beyond the firewall and IDS, what other tools should I be running?
Where should they be on my network?
And how many physical boxes are we talking about here?
Should we low power devices free as in beer?
To that, I will say I have an episode promised to you 50 that I will do on the device that I use for this thing.
However, right now the one important thing that you can do to secure your network is read your log files.
But suggested topic number two, now that security is in place, how to read logs, formulate a response to an intrusion.
What I've learned from software is that you can't prevent intrusion, it's how to respond to when you are compromised.
Again, according to security weekly, the security manager's job is to detect intrusions inside 48 hours rather than 48 months.
How can you protect your proprietary data and customer data?
Question three, what are the answers I need to the questions?
I don't know enough to ask very good.
Sorry, but that's it.
I think those are all very, very good topics.
And definitely need to add to the list of requested topics.
And there was somebody on the August planet, mailing list, looking for that sort of information as well.
So if you're out there and this is something you do for a living or have input on, then feel free to record some shoes.
And also if you have your own requested topics, either get on the gitlab.ananasthos.com page and create an account there or get an account there and edit the pages or send an email to Admin Attacker Public Radio.
Or we will add them for you.
I think I sent you an email I did apply for an account on the gitlab and got it.
But when I got in, all I could seem to see were bits and pieces of the comments.
Okay, Dave, make it happen.
If you want access to the projects behind, then I can set that up.
Okay, the whole gitlab thing is quite new to us, so bear with us folks, bear with us.
Okay, was there anything else anyone else had related to HPR?
Nothing here.
Well, then with that, I will say without further ado, tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of hacker, public public radio radio.
I'm so looking forward to when you get an internet connection 50.
All right, goodnight folks, tune in tomorrow.
We're not going to sing.
Join us now and share the song and share the software.
You'll be free actors.
You'll be free.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at hackerpublicradio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, Share a Life, 3.0 license.
