Episode: 1519
Title: HPR1519: What's in My Bag
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1519/hpr1519.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 04:34:34

---

Do.
All right?
Okay.
What's good, Acro Public Radio? This is Taj, and I wanted to come at you guys with
an episode about what's in my bag. I know a couple of the people have done these episodes,
and I found them really interesting, so I thought I'd go ahead and contribute one since
we're kind of low on episodes. I have several bags, and they're all tailored to different
applications. So the bag that I'm going to go through today is my normal bag that I carry
pretty much every day with me. So I guess we can start with the bag itself. I'm not really sure
what the model is. I have to look it up when I do the show notes. The bag that I carry is a
messenger style bag from hazard4.com. It's a black bag, and it actually has Molly attachments on it.
And I know that there have been a couple episodes about Molly attachments on Acro Public Radio.
They're fantastic, and if you can find a bag that uses them, you should take advantage of it,
because it takes any bag that you have and makes it completely multifunctional. So just on the
outside of the bag here. On one side, I've got a drink carrier. It's a Molly attachment that goes
on the outside. It's black. It's from a company called 511, and they make a lot of tactical gear,
and this just straps on to the side of my bag. And inside of it, I constantly have a 32 ounce
Nalgene bottle. It's kind of a joke with everybody around me that I'd never go anywhere without
my water bottle. I drink a lot of water, so I constantly have that on me. On the other side,
I have another Molly pouch. I'm not sure who makes this one. It's black like the bag as well.
And inside of it, I keep my amateur radio. I'm a ham radio operator, and I keep my handy
talking in my bag. I don't hardly ever use it, but I just kind of want to keep it there in case
I do decide to use it. And so the radio itself is a Wotion. It's a KGUV2D for all the ham
radio heads out there, because I know everybody likes to compare their gear. So that's what I'm
rocking on a daily basis. So I guess without further ado, let's dig into this thing and see what we've
got. It is a fairly large bag, and I carry everything all the time. So on the front, it's got a really
big, just front pouch. It has Molly stripes on the front of it, and it has a map case on the inside
of that front pouch. And then it has a bunch of little pockets inside. So the first thing I've got in
here is I have a Mulskin notebook that I keep just to take notes in. It's kind of a reporter style,
and it has grid paper. I love grid paper. Almost everything I do. I do a grid paper. So there's that.
I have a couple flash drives that I keep in here. One is a portable apps installation that I use
at work since most of the computers at work are PCs, and I want to use my software. So I bring that.
And then the other one is a boot disk of Tails OS. And that's just in case I'm somewhere where I don't
trust the computer or if I'm in a coffee shop or something where I don't trust the internet itself
there. I will boot into that just to kind of keep myself safe. It's probably overkill, but I just
just something to do. Let's see what else we get in here. I also have my little Sansa Clipsit
that I have that I put rock box on. We probably a couple months ago we talked about it on Linux load
cast about taking one of these and putting a rock box on it. And so I went and bought one. And actually
I've used it a ton. It's great because I usually listen to music and podcasts and audio books on my
phone, but that gets kind of cumbersome. And this thing, this is so tiny and so cheap. If I
destroy it, I'm not going to feel bad about it. So if I'm mowing the grass and I drop it and run
over it, it's it's not going to be a terrible loss. But I keep that in my bag just in case.
I have a multi tool. That's a fairly good size one. It doesn't have a brand name on it.
It's not a brand name weatherman, but it is. It does have pretty much all the tools that I need on
a daily basis. I'm working at a school and being a tech coordinator at my school. I have to fix
projectors and computers and run cables and cut things all the time so that's nice to have whenever I
need it. I have a ton of Pilot G2 pins and different colors. That's my favorite writing utensil.
I'd like to have the different colors so I can grade or when I take notes, I like to use different
colors just to kind of have my own little system than I use. I have a tied pin because I'm sloppy
and I get things all over myself all the time and so having it is nice so I don't ruin my close
on a daily basis. I have a couple external batteries for my phone. I have a Galaxy S4 Android phone
and I have a wall charger and a couple batteries for that. Just in case I need to charge it during
the day. I go through batteries a lot. I use it to tether to get around things a lot of the time
and so that will run down your battery. Behind that front pocket and behind that organizer,
there is a whole other pocket so we'll go in here and really the only thing I keep in there
and this is hit or miss. It's not always in there. I have a Kindle Touch that I carry around. I
use it a lot for not only for reading but I do a lot of research and so having that with me,
I can go through research pretty quick whenever I have a spare minute. I've always had problems reading
even as a kid. It took me a long time to read things and I found that if I read it on a screen,
I can get through it much much faster. So I usually, if I have paper documentation, I will scan it in
and make an ebook of it and then go through it. I just, for me, that's the process that works.
So that's the front pockets. Go ahead and zip that back up and this thing has way more pockets
than I could ever ever imagine using. Okay, so then we have a big center pocket here and it has
Molly attachments all across the back as well. It has a front pocket that I don't really have
anything inside the center pocket. It has a front pocket and then on the side, it has two
pockets that run along the side walls. Inside one of them, I keep my, I hate touch pads so I keep
a wireless mouse in there and I keep the power brick from my laptop. I usually have a pad of
paper in here, just regular notebook paper. Kids in my school always need paper and so I just
like to be able to reach in my bag and grab some and go with it. And then on the other side,
I have this pouch and this pouch is kind of the bag of holding. It has everything in it.
I've got spare headphones. I have a little external power brick that's USB that will charge
pretty much anything you plug into it, which is nice. It'll fill about half a phone.
I have a four port USB hub that we'll plug in. I have a wall work that has USB on it just in case
every kind of adapter and cable you could ever imagine needing some extra smaller flash drive,
some SD cards and SD card reader and the USB to many USB on the go adapter for my phone.
Just random assortment of things. Quarter inch jacks for audio equipment, a USB extension.
Pretty much my idea with this little pouch is that I should be able to connect anything at any
time to anything else and it has very rarely ever failed me. Usually when I switch out bags,
that's one of the first things that goes into the new bag is that little pouch because it's
kind of my life saver. And then the back of the bag is a laptop case. It's very heavily padded
and it's got some nice like clothing inside of it to keep everything nice and from getting scratched
up. Most days I carry my laptop. I have a Lenovo idea pad. It's a Y580. It's a 15 inch laptop so
it's pretty hefty. I really enjoy it. I think it's the best computer I've ever owned. It did take
a little bit to get Linux to work on it. I run my jar on it and pretty much all the time.
I do have a Windows partition because I do have to do some things for work and I wish I could
get rid of it but some of the software will not run in wine. If I'm going with that, that's all
I will take. If I want to go light with this bag, I will leave the laptop and the power brick at
home and I have a Android tablet. I have a transformer. It's a TF101. It was the first generation
of transformer tablets and I will carry that with it. It has a keyboard dock with it and so it will
do a lot of laptop things and I can use it to get into my desktop computer at home and do work if I
need to. It's a little clued you doing it that way so a lot of times I will not do that unless I
feel like I just really need to have a light bag day. If I know I'm going somewhere and a lot of
times if that's the case I'm probably going to grab a different bag in this bag in general.
Well that's about it for what's in this bag. I may go if I switch up something or have another bag
that I think is interesting. I may do another episode about that but for today that is all
Hacker Public Radio needs you to make new episodes because we are running low dangerously low
so whatever you're doing, drop it and go make an episode. It doesn't take that long. I did this
in probably 10 minutes of my time so no matter what you think, what you know is interesting so
please share it with the community. Thanks. Peace.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio. Our Hacker Public Radio does our
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the economical and computer cloud.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are proudly sponsored by
Lina pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinaPages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a like, free those own license.
