Episode: 1154
Title: HPR1154: 2012-2013 Hacker Public Radio New Year Show Part 4
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1154/hpr1154.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 20:17:58

---

Music
So I was wondering like, you know, what are the great computer scenes and movies have
you guys?
Can you guys think of that we're just, mate, you won't forget.
I can't tell you that, Dave.
That was a classic film.
Any film that has the screen come back with security access.
There's a whole boatload of them from the movie hackers.
Oh, yes, my car is a good, yeah, you have to really be one of them to love it though.
No, I think everybody liked that movie.
Computer.
What was the Angelina Jolie when she was really young?
What was the movie just because like came out two years ago, it was based off that video
game where they rode those weird motorcycles?
Tron.
Yeah, the last Tron.
Tron, like you see?
Yeah.
Wasn't the video game based on the movie and then the movie was based on the video game
or something like that?
Right.
But anyway, there was a scene where they showed a screen of a Linux or a Linux terminal
where it was trying to kill the program when he was hacking in and said, kill-9, I thought
that was a lot of Xbox.
Yeah, and they said that he would give away an operating system for free.
There had like little back jokes to a Linux community.
I want to say I don't like hackers, but I do like sneakers.
That was a possibility.
Sneakers rot.
You know, sneakers always confused me because I like understood that one of the guys,
the blind guy was the typical phone freak, but everything else was just baffling
to me.
Haven't seen that work.
What was it made?
It was made on communities like mid-'90s.
I'm going to guess 96, 97.
92.
And it's still actually as valid today as it was then.
Most of it's about physical security.
That was the key thing about it.
It was about social engineering and kind of getting into buildings.
And yeah, like Ken said, it's all kind of stuff that's valid today.
By the way, what hello again everyone, I'm back again for the tour.
Hey.
Hey, Joe.
Welcome back.
John, the nice guy from CCHeads.
Yeah, I think all the security in the hacking in that movie was just fluff and filler.
That movie was really about peace on earth and goodwill towards men.
Sneakers.
Sneakers.
Sneakers.
Sneakers.
Little sneakers was cool.
I really liked Freedom Down Time.
That's a less hilarious film though.
Freedom Down Time.
Hold on.
That's the Kevin Mitnik, right?
It was.
I really enjoyed that film.
Yeah, that was a production of our 2600 crew.
It was, yeah.
I'd never heard of it just now.
Yeah, it seems like lots of people were there.
Sorry, I'd really love to talk in all those ones.
Particularly like the bit when I, sort of, key the door together,
the intercom to get into one of the buildings and it dials a number.
And they're like, oops, we just dialed someone's home number by mistake.
Yes.
Cool, I have not seen it.
His, um, his book Ghost in the Wires is also amazing.
That's an incredible book.
I quite like the, um, computer display in die hard for the one with the, um,
it's got like, uh, having a little chap and they add one of the guys advertise.
It's like a little devil and it comes along and eats the other devil.
The other avatar is pretty cool.
There's two, two key films that always got me were, um, the net, uh,
for just complete and unbelievableness.
Crappiness, you mean?
Yeah.
Although it, I mean, it was, it was from a, from a technical premise.
There was, there was nothing to it.
Um, but from a, you know, a good filmmaking perspective.
It was all right.
I quite enjoyed the film as it went.
But yeah, nothing technical, nothing technically valid there.
What was the other film?
I was just thinking up there.
Ah, I can't remember now.
I'll shut up here.
You go on.
You know, when you, when you ask about good computer films, all I can think of is the worst computer film.
I think that the film that did the most to harm the computer science and the progress of computers and everything like that.
Would have to be the lawnmower man with that like awful virtual reality concept.
Agreed.
I always thought it was neat.
I always wanted to like, uh, test that out.
Saw their setup that looked pretty cool when I was a kid.
I thought you were going to say, uh, take that out.
No, I know what's that one.
That is the fictionalized version of Kevin Metnik with weird hilarious cartoonish things that happen in it.
Oh, right on.
Okay.
So I think they made a movie out of it.
I never saw it.
But it's for a book.
Did anybody ever read, uh, the terminal man?
I think so.
It's the Michael Crichton one, right?
Yeah.
They made a film about it, but I have not, I've never seen it.
There was this short video I saw that was pretty good.
It was, um, I think it was called Life 2.0.
It was, uh, basically like, uh, an end user license agreement, uh,
explaining all the features you get, uh, after your body dies,
you're uploaded to a computer and, uh, you don't have all the capabilities.
If you didn't get the right package and all this other stuff,
it's only like a couple minutes.
There's a similar book for that.
That I've seen.
Ready to play a one.
Ready to play one's a really good book.
Anyone ever see the movie?
A man or woman in a bank found Sulland?
Donald Sutherland?
Yeah, it's, it's, it's an old movie.
It's not Sulland and, uh, an actor called Musursky.
And, uh, there's actually a bank going in and, and Canada,
and they're, they're building it from the ground up with computer security.
And they hack it and, um, they, they actually feature the guy hacking it
from the bathroom of the bank building, which was really just hysterical for me.
It's a little obscure, but I really, really enjoyed it.
From a similar perspective, Firewall, Firewall is a dreadful, dreadful film that's great,
because it's like the guy that's breaking the security of the bank
is basically just entering in commands into a switch.
Yeah, that's what they took advantage of.
Hey, going back to the early 80s, everybody,
probably everybody remembers Star Trek 4.
We're, Scottie talks into the mouse computer.
But, but, what about what happens after that?
Uh, that, Bluma, when you talk about one of the worst scenes,
uh, why would Scottie be super duper, almost like Lieutenant Commander Data,
uh, good on a keyboard?
In fact, I would think somebody from Scottie's time would be bad on a keyboard.
They wouldn't know what to do.
There was a later movie that, and William Shatton was actually using like, uh,
like a Commodore 64 or something, I think, in the background.
As far as computer, uh, movies, it's not really computer movie,
but, um, the really influential, uh, interface thing in, uh, uh,
uh, in it.
Just forgot it.
Um, the Tom Cruise, Philip K. Dick movie.
Yes, yes.
I know the one you're talking about.
I know where the report is.
Mine already.
Oh, she reported.
That was a great movie.
I really didn't like it, and I didn't care for the stupid computer gimmick,
but, man, did everyone else love it?
Because, yeah, you're right.
Everyone, like, that's the interface that everyone envisions now.
It's like, it must, it has to be like a HUD, and it has to be...
The vision interface in the UI.
Yeah.
What about the interface in paycheck?
I don't think I saw that one.
Changing subject, not entirely, but, uh, did anyone go into the film source code,
expecting something entirely different?
Yes.
That was me.
I did that.
I never heard that.
It was pretty good.
I enjoyed it.
Um, you can't really give a lot of way about that film without it being spoilers.
So, um, it's...
This is what IMDB says about an action thriller centered on the soldier who wakes up in a body
of an unknown man discovers he's part of a mission to find a bomber of a Chicago commuter train.
That's accurate, but it's...
It doesn't have a lot to do with source code, unfortunately.
Sounds a lot like face-off.
It's only better.
It can't be reminded me of the, uh, butterfly effect.
Yeah.
It had to be better than face-off, static on a screen for two hours is better than face-off.
I agree.
I jumped out of my skin with face-off.
My wife loved to have no idea why.
I don't care why anybody liked it.
It was made by David Bowie's son, so that's...
I should tell you how great it is.
Well, I mean, with some horrible movies that just get so bad, it becomes funny.
Like, then, I see Troll 2.
I haven't seen Troll 1.
Yeah, I like Troll 1.
I like Troll 1.
I like Troll 1.
It was...
It was a lot better than I'd expected, and...
And pretty good.
You know what that should make a remake of is the Matrix.
I was...
I often wondered why there was only one episode of that.
You make the other two.
You make a good version of the Matrix?
Like, one without Giano Reeves?
Yeah, I also wondered why there never made a remake of the Highlander as well.
Because there were only V1.
Now, we'll read and say if they did a remake of Star Wars.
And George Lucas had nothing to do with it.
Thank you.
Well, if you want to talk about Giano Reeves, you have to talk about...
No, don't do it.
A giant demonic...
Oh, you did it!
Who had no good?
Oh!
Anything with Giano Reeves, just forget about it.
Yeah, but that one had...
No, that one had sex with the guy.
Yeah, it was gonna suck.
I'm not gonna go to Johnny Newmonic, though.
Giano Reeves cannot add.
He sucks the life energy out of me whenever he is on the screen.
Boom!
Okay, it's gasoline to adventure.
I liked the Bill and Ted movies, but Johnny Newmonic was quite possibly the worst movie
I've ever seen aside from the Scarlet Letter.
You know what?
You know what's really funny about Johnny Newmonic was that.
I mean, I thought I read the book, but what happened with me was I got the Japanese edits,
the stuff that they had in the Japanese version, but not in the English version,
and all of a sudden everything made sense.
What you have to understand about Giano Reeves is that when he mentions his capacity in Johnny Newmonic,
it really does affect his acting level.
Nice.
Yeah, the one scene in that movie that just sealed the deal was when I think it was iced tea,
was one of the guys in the movie.
He took his paintball gun and unscrewed the CO2 tank and like ran off.
Like as if that somehow improved this weapon that we were not all supposed to recognize as a paintball gun.
Well, I like when that guy was looking at the preacher through the binoculars and had the readout
that told what percent of human plots were there.
And why Bill's just joined?
Yeah, is this working?
Yeah, great.
Okay, cool.
I had to set the whole thing up.
Sorry, I watched the meeting you at the Hope Conference and why Bill.
All right, yeah, we got some wires crossed there.
I first heard about that after it happened on HPR.
It was like, damn.
Yeah, every two years I think it over next time.
Now I have to wear another two years.
And speaking of guys who sound like other guys all day long,
I've been thinking that red streak was our red steak was NY Bill.
Who's using my voice?
You loaned it out, huh?
Hello, back, Bill.
Hi, Bill.
We were just discussing what a brilliant actor, Keanu Reeves is.
I loved him in speed.
Dude, he was talking about computer films,
but somehow he dominated that.
Like, he dominates the good stories that I'd rather just someone else in.
He's not acting, might have proved.
He's not acting, might have proved.
Did nobody mention the point break?
Constantine, or Constantine.
I love that film.
I like that film, too, actually.
Didn't see it.
That was pretty good.
I think I liked it most because Satan was gay in it.
Is there anything that just happened to be on last night?
Is there any fans of the TV show Criminal Minds?
Never heard of it.
I don't think you're going to have a lot of TV viewers in here.
Never heard of it.
Well, I heard about it.
I heard about it.
It's like this computer system that can see and watch everything.
No, no, no, no.
It's different show.
Criminal Minds is a FBI thriller type.
Yeah, it's these people who go out and they basically profile mass killers
and actually figure out how to track them down.
I won't say that the show was all that great, although the interesting part about it
is at the beginning and end, they normally use some kind of like literary quote.
And it's interesting that they're trying to take and frame pretty much standard stories
within a different literary context, which is by the only thing that's interesting about that show.
Anyway, the reason I ask is there's a girl who does all the computer work for them
and they're always showing her screenshots of her setup.
And I cannot for the life of me figure out what operating system she's used as one of anybody.
I even freeze frame it and look real well.
It looks almost like Mac, Ubuntu type setup.
It's crunching.
Well, that would be my idea.
We have it.
Now go the dragon.
It's in everything.
Oh, I actually, oh, I love the box box.
I actually read the books those are based on the Millennium Trilogy
and they actually go in really deep into how like the software that she made for surveilling on people works.
And like it's really good and it's really in depth.
I was really surprised.
She's running box box.
The only way to show our description of how they do it in the books is the description of how they do it in the movies.
Yes.
And there's also in all these movies or in those crime shows they have like the enhanced picture thing,
like enhanced, enhanced, enhanced, almost like in Blade Runner.
Oh, that is so much.
There's an excellent YouTube video where they take the every time
and Hansen said in a movie and put it into a clip.
It's fantastic.
I'll see.
I've watched that the other day, Ken.
It's brilliant.
I think it's called enhanced life or something.
Something along those lines.
I hope they have one called override.
And they just take everywhere.
Some of these is override in a sci-fi movie or computer movie.
So when everybody poopoo watching TV,
I take it.
We have no miss TV users here.
Mitt TV people don't watch TV this.
Not yet.
At the time of building a Mitt TV box.
Not me.
That's about it.
Mine runs and runs and records and records.
But you all say accepting is the worst step to salvation.
He can.
There's a run on the pie.
I heard people ran front-ends on the pie.
Yes, I think you can.
There is a...
Well, I'm not sure about Mitt TV.
I think you can install it on top of one of the base versions of it.
But then they've got an XBMC version also,
which XBMC does have a plugin for being a Mitt TV front-end.
Doesn't Mitt TV have the auto commercial stripper?
Yes, that's the main reason why I use it.
Yeah, I didn't they practically invent that.
There was a VHS technology that did that.
Quite a few years back I had a VCR that did that and it was awesome.
It apparently could detect it somehow from the metadata that worked in...
They had somehow in broadcasts for advertising.
And so it would automatically fast forward that whenever I had recorded it.
So if I recorded something to a VHS tape and I watched it,
it would skip all the commercials.
It was the greatest thing ever.
Yeah, there was.
It was a large captioning.
What that worked was there's actually an inaudible high-pitch frequency
at the end of a show segment leading into the commercials
and one in the leader coming back into the show.
So that's how I actually knew how to fast forward over the commercials.
I've been in there for years.
There's a standard for that.
And they put in time-base, put in signal into the streams.
So that little galabrotizments can be run.
But they also make sure to take it out of it before it goes to live broadcast.
Many of the close...
Much of the closed captioning is never found in commercials also.
So if you just look for the next closed caption, it's a good way to do it.
Oh yeah, man.
Yeah, that's pretty good.
Up until this recent legislation that was passed to limit the volume of commercials,
you could have just done it by how much volume there was.
Comcast.
Comcast is horrible on their volume control and commercials.
See, they're really high or super low.
Yeah, nothing on Hulu.
Not Clyt too? What's up?
I was just going to say that they used to deny that they did that to commercials.
It sounds like maybe they're not denying it so much anymore.
Well, they can't deny it.
They just passed the Congress just passed a law that said that they can't do that anymore.
But the whole idea with that, as I understand it, which they would never, of course, admit to,
was that...
So you'd still hear the commercial from the kitchen while you were making your popcorn
or getting your beer from the bathroom or whatever.
This latest one was like their second attempt.
The first time they tried to do that, they messed up because what they did was
they put a higher range.
So commercials stay around the same volume.
But shows could get really loud when there's an explosion or something like that.
So what they did was they set the commercials to the explosion volume
of a show, like the loudest volume that was in the show.
So technically, they were at the same volume.
It's just that they were following the letter of a law, not the necessarily spirit of it.
The other problem is the true dynamic range of real sound
really would not make it for broadcasting.
People are too used to the compression.
Definitely true.
I think we just seen our record for the day at 36.
It's setting at 35 right now, but we had a 36 peak.
Anybody else seen anything higher?
No, I hadn't been watching.
I've been watching the streams, and we've been hovering around 20 on Aug and MP3.
So it's been pretty even, but Aug pulled ahead a little while ago.
And Ken was worried we weren't going to have enough streams.
No, I wasn't.
Is there a limit? How many can be here?
75 connections today.
Nothing wrong with being ready for scalability though.
Okay, so Stuzz is asking how many people he thinks, how many we think are listening.
So on the streams that we know of, there's 12, 18, 19, 22 or 21 or 22 in the Aug and MP3.
There's 15, 20, 23.
So MP3 is pulled ahead again.
New world, the new radio.net also has listeners.
Yeah, but we don't have a count on those, do we?
Nope.
I'm cheating because I'm recording Aug separately.
That's okay, and I'm cheating too because I'm monitoring the new radio.net even though it's bumping that MP3 count up by one sadly.
Guys, I'm going to have to go now for the next hour.
So I've got kids to be a father of good luck.
Good luck, Ken.
Go slow them up.
Have fun siring to my best.
And if you need to contact me, you guys should have my mobile phone, my cell number.
Never gave that to me.
Chat, just one second.
I'll paste it in again.
I don't want it now.
Can you do that?
Can you text internationally?
Or do they nail you for that?
It's like you can text an astronaut.
Yeah, but have somebody in the UK do it?
Or the Netherlands?
Free world battle up.
Because well, just shout.
I send a carrier pigeon.
Just call a UK number.
Hey, say, tell this to Ken.
Ken doesn't live here.
He's moved to the Netherlands.
So, anyone getting any interesting toys for Christmas?
I went and grabbed myself a laptop.
What kind?
11.6-inch Sony VIO.
750 gig hard drive, 4 gigs of RAM.
And dual 1.7 gigahertz fusion.
Okay, there it is.
37 mobile.
Would you say the graphics chip was on there?
What did you?
A couple of stuff.
It's integrated in on the fusion processor.
Okay.
How are those under Linux?
Oh, my God, beautiful.
And full virtualization support.
Oh, really?
Very nice.
I've been thinking about getting a system 76 laptop for a while.
This one was a floor model.
I picked up at a 15% discount.
But it took me about four hours to figure out how to go through all the bios settings to enable Linux installation without a sign kernel.
Oh, is that a UEFI secure boot?
Oh, yeah.
How's that working out?
Because, uh, yeah, that's coming down the pike.
And I just wonder who's going to be screwed with Linux to try to put Linux.
I eventually popped it into legacy mode so that it doesn't only matter.
Oh, good.
Yeah, just a matter of finding the right verbiage.
Wait, wait, sorry.
So wait, the BIOS has a legacy mode that turns off the UEFI thing.
Is that correct?
Yep.
Well, that's great.
Is there going to be something that sticks around?
Do we think?
Yeah, the next menu you actually call it something different.
Yeah.
According to Microsoft and their specifics, they will not allow the stuff to be turned off themselves in the tablets, only the laptops.
Yeah, arm-based processors, right?
Oh, don't care about tablets anyway.
But you're right.
And the books are going away.
So what are we going to use?
Anybody put Linux on a surface yet?
Raspberry Pi.
It's very difficult to get it to run on a surface.
I was betting somebody's tried.
I have.
Any luck at all?
No, they've done quite a good job.
Unfortunately, there might be people that have done it successfully, but it's a larger undertaking than I had initially thought.
I'm just impressed that you got a surface and are actually trying it.
I actually used my friend's surface because he was dumb and bought a surface.
So he thought you were trying to break it for him.
Yeah.
Couldn't get any worse, right?
I mean, it's all right.
You're running Windows.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He just wanted to fix it for him.
It said that it required Windows or better to run this application.
So I installed Linux.
That's better.
I'm currently going to be using a bunch of these laptops to build a Linux-based system that's going to be running five versions of Windows for different diagnostic tools for vehicles.
On a dual core?
Yep.
That's weird.
I have a ThinkPad X220, which has some pretty awesome specs, and I don't know if I would be able to virtualize things at the same time more than one box on it.
The processor supports virtualization, which means I can run almost natively.
Well, the processor on this supports virtualization, too.
What are you running it under?
It's running under virtual box on a dual core 1.7 fusion.
This is an i5 something at like 2.2, so it should be able to run that pretty well.
I was running it under VMware, too, though.
Yeah.
Kind of got away from VMware.
You talking about five different versions of Windows talking to five different vehicles?
No.
The problem with most of the diagnostic software is that some of the drivers can interfere with each other.
So, for example, the GM diagnostic software doesn't like to play nice with the drivers for the four diagnostic software.
So what they advise is installing five different versions of Windows natively on a computer.
I prefer to do it in a VM.
Oh, OK.
That's silly.
You're not really running them simultaneously, then.
No, although this can take a gig's RAM, if I really need to.
They need to make better software.
That is true, but at the same time, they're all running on the same hardware and it's standards compliant hardware.
Welcome to Dan.
Yeah.
What goes around comes around.
That problem's been around for four decades now.
But our software is the only software you'll ever need.
Whose device drivers are these?
I need to know who to set on fire in the future.
These are specifically for the diagnostic tools for the manufacturers, all running through a standards compliant system.
The nice thing is the box that we're getting to hook up through OBD2 is a Linux box, and it comes pre-rooted.
Oh, boy, we just got Method Dan, origami, Cobra 2, and Thistleweb all popped in at the same time.
Nice.
This might have been the call out on identical.
It's almost a change of shift, isn't it?
It kind of sounds like a gang or something from the Warriors, you know, Cobra 2, Thistleweb.
They're very suspect-looking characters.
They're actually the characters from Streets of Rage.
And Delwin's here too.
Anyway, I need to skip out. I've got to go make a key for a Nissan.
Okay.
Okay, have fun.
Good evening, everyone.
Are you doing this Thistleweb?
Good evening.
Good evening.
Yeah, I've just noticed a little issue.
I've just noticed a little issue on the netbook with this many people on the channel, is usually there's only like four or five people on a channel or something so that you can see when someone's lights light up.
Yep.
So you can see who's talking, but there's so many people that scrolls off.
So there's going to be people talking and I don't see the light lighting up, so I don't know who it is.
This might be an issue.
Yeah, well, I'm scrolling up and down.
You're going to have to either turn it on a phone.
You're going to have to either turn it sideways or drink until your head falls sideways.
That's nothing new for Thistleweb.
Yeah, that is him.
That is him, that is him, that is Mark.
I was going to say, you haven't stopped drinking it, right?
Three monitors on a stacked desk.
Well, me personally, I've not even started drinking yet.
I've been waiting until coming on here before I start.
How much to have my last coffee before I start drinking?
I could pull shit.
I second it.
Time to charge coffee, isn't it?
Yeah, he didn't say what he put in the coffee.
I'm not going to answer that with it.
My lawyer has been here.
Anyone who wanted to represent me.
Asmeth, dude, when did you show up?
He's been here a while.
A little while.
Hey, that's how you doing, man.
Long time no see.
I just trying to stay warm.
Yeah, that's how we hear, buddy.
It is the season.
Hi, Art.
Yeah, I'm looking through the list.
It's like the gang's all here.
It is the season to be freezing.
Yeah, it's even cold in the south.
It's really mild and wet here.
If you go deep enough south, you can go camping with crayon.
It's a nice 81 in a way.
No tank, no camping for me.
I had my share.
I found a huge disadvantage of being off.
I hadn't started in my car in about six days.
And the battery was dead.
Night.
Longer.
Time for a new battery.
Exactly.
So on that previous conversation, did you guys hear that like netbooks are...
They're going the way of the dodo?
I always talk about my netbook.
I think ACES and ACES are...
ACES and ACES said that they're going to run their production out and then that's the end of it.
They're the last two making them.
I really liked that form factor.
I would so much rather have a netbook than a tablet.
Yeah, I've been using my e for ever.
Yeah, same here.
The form factor is not going away.
It's just the netbooks are going away.
They'll still have ultrabooks for $13, $1400.
It's just the $300, $400, $400 ones are going away.
Yeah, but those are...
Like Sandy Bridge and like I-5's and I mean the battery is going to run...
For 60 minutes and you're done.
Yeah, actually no.
I have a ThinkPad X220 which is like a 12 and a half inch laptop.
But it's because they're an old-reportable though.
So it's like I guess bigger than a netbook.
It gets a good 10 and 11 hours of battery.
Oh really?
It's pretty crazy, yeah.
It's really nice though.
They say that the tablets are replacing the netbooks.
But the thing I don't like about the tablet is there's A.
No good open source drivers for a lot of those graphics cards on them.
And B.
Even if you could, it's harder to install than just an average X86 add-on Linux distro.
I think that the best for a netbook that's Android-based and A10 board.
I think it depends on the audience.
I mean there's a lot of people bearing in mind of computers tend to be bought by the mainstream users.
And all they really want is Facebook and Twitter and Skype and stuff like that, you know.
But it's face it.
I mean when you buy a netbook, what has it got on it?
It's got windows on it.
And that's hardly a selling point for a netbook straight out of the box.
When people get it, they go, this is slow as molasses.
People like us who can refactor it out in a decent operating system on it.
We can sort of appreciate that, but a lot of people don't get that experience.
They get windows and it's got all the same malware issues as the regular desktop or laptop.
But it's not anywhere near as fast.
It's got the malware issues and it runs 50 times.
Absolutely true.
Hey, has anybody been following the ping pod after they did their Indiegogo fundraising thing?
I'm looking at it.
I looked at it.
It looked like a cheap Chinese tablet.
Which is fine because it was priced at a nice price.
The problem I saw was, again, the graphics on it.
If you were running a standard Linux, it still wouldn't be the best.
And some stuff, at least with a plasma active, was seemed a little buggy.
And that would be the main interface I was actually looking forward for.
I'm looking forward to getting my Ubuntu tablet in 43 hours, 19 minutes and four seconds.
I'm not looking forward to my bank balance being emptied to get it.
You know, I think core nominal should keep this show live until let Ubuntu think comes out.
I agree.
I wish I could, but I'm going to go to work at some point, maybe.
You have six days, right?
No, yeah, he doesn't.
Yeah, you know an Apple fanboy would call out for his latest tablet or iPhone or whatever.
So if you really care, are you ever talking about cults earlier?
Would you consider Apple a cult?
Yes, yes, definitely.
In fact, an Apple fanboy would be in line right now to go into the store and watch it on their monitors.
Don't speak to genius about it.
Well, all geniuses are on mumble right now.
I'm doing my best, but that's more like enough.
Turn the nice guy down, pal.
I want Dan to say hello to everyone.
Hello, everyone.
I believe the term genie, by the way, the plural of genius is genie, but there we go.
Don't let us know.
There's only one genius on this channel anyway, so you know.
A genie, I sounds like something Steve Jobs would think of when he looks in the mirror.
That's I genie.
That's the spirit of the mode comes in.
Actually, the plural of genius is geniuses.
Well, it's a little more complicated than that.
So genie comes from gen, right?
Like the, you know, like de gen, that sort of gen.
And that got corrupted and turned into genie.
And there's some relation between genie and genius.
Maybe that if you are, if you are someone who is tremendously intellectually talented,
they would say you had a genius following you.
And that was supposed to be like a helper spirit.
And for some reason in English, the, the plural of that is geniuses.
That is at least one accepted.
I'm not sure if genie or like genius or genie is a accepted thing,
but geniuses is the first accepted one I know of.
But that, that, that, that would explain Apple's new pattern for the button that shaped like a lamp for the genius bar.
So the customer rubs the lamp to get a genius.
I think it's great that we get the English lesson from across the pond.
Yeah.
As long as we're still allowed to say boxing, then I'm fine with it.
Yeah.
Is it true you're only allowed to ask three questions at the genius bar?
Oh, you can actually wish for more wishes.
So that's, that's fine.
As long as one of the questions isn't,
does, do you do it anything other than Apple's stuff here?
True.
Philip, tell them about what happened when you went into the Apple store,
what you did when in Lincoln.
I can't really remember.
I went in to,
I walked into the Apple store and this chap came up to me.
I said, can you show me the, can you show me a retina display device, please?
He went, sure.
And took me over to this lovely looking laptop thing.
I went to my website, check my icons.
They looked great, closed it down and said,
folks mate, I walked out pretty much.
No.
That's it.
You see how much those rings are?
They're really expensive.
$25, $2600 or something?
Yeah, in real money.
That's like £1,000.
Yes, you're right.
You're not going to space was priceless though.
This is similar to everyone using brick and mortar stores,
just as a showroom and then going home and then bang stuff online.
Actually, to be fair to the guy in the shop,
I did actually stay in every bit of the chat with him.
And he's an Ubuntu user himself.
So he just works.
Oh wow.
Yeah, I thought that was quite impressive.
He's probably, I'm not a service.
He's probably an unemployed guy now,
if any of his supervisors heard them say that to you.
Obviously, he'd be on like the sales floor doing nothing
when he should be behind the genius bar,
but they probably have no idea how smart the guy is.
You know, I'm being on the next big trend.
There's 22-inch laptop.
It sounds like a lot of weight to carry around.
I don't know.
That's why you rely on Apple doing it,
because they've got a knackie getting things nice and light.
I guess you didn't see the laptop.
I was touching it.
I'll camp.
And why I tend to refer to it as my minimally.
Sorry, monolith rather.
No, I didn't.
I didn't see that.
I was too busy running around.
Was that, have you got a 22-inch laptop?
No, it was a 17-inch, I think it was.
Okay.
Yeah, well, they've been around for a while.
There's a 17-inch MacBook, isn't it?
MacBook Pro.
Yeah, 17 is the biggest ones I've seen.
I've never seen anything bigger than a 17.
But at that point, you think,
or that's not really portable when you go bigger than that.
Yeah, those things get heavy,
and they don't fit in any backpack.
On the way to, I'm trying to figure out why all the bits and pieces were going wrong,
that were going wrong.
I'm just trying to get that out on the train and connect to Wi-Fi
and kind of try and have a conversation with my father-in-law at the same time.
That was really interesting.
John, that sounds like fun.
I'll show you a little suitcase shape like a penguin.
Yeah, and also one of the same bags
that Canonical used as the official brand in Ubuntu bags.
See, if you've bought a 17-inch laptop on the train,
do you not get the impression that other passengers are looking at you going
and he's compensating for something?
That's why when about a week after Oddcamp,
that laptop decided not to boot anymore.
I replaced it with probably about 11-inch.
You know, there's an analogy in there as well.
And if you look in your spam folder,
you may find the solution.
You're a bad man, you know, if it's a web.
That's why I'm here.
I'm full phone on my machine.
I'm full phone on a wall.
That's why I'm here.
That's why I always take my pants off before I take my laptop out.
Smiles move.
Got to disembe you with that.
Yeah, you got to rest it for that on a train.
I'll hear it anyway.
That's why us ladies can't park cars.
Keep telling us it's six inches.
All right.
We brought all of them.
That's a good one.
So, Bill, going back to your sad news about the demise of the netbook.
That's kind of good news because you should be able to pick them up for peanuts on eBay.
I've actually been thinking, should I get like two and just put them up in the closet and I'll have them around.
But the batteries will, they'll be crappin' in a year.
Well, actually, the netbook, you say that.
There's an Argos just now.
They've got an MSI wind, which is, I think, the same one as I've got of the newer version of the one I've got.
150 notes at the moment.
That was before.
I don't know if they've got any cheaper than the sales.
If they've even got a sale.
But before Christmas, 150 notes for an MSI wind.
Well, maybe I'll just have to snap up what's left.
Well, I think we could use arm-based tablets if you really must.
But you could also see if they come out with any atom-based tablets and use like a built-in keyboard case.
I saw, I can't remember where it was, I saw it now.
But I saw a guy that built a Beowulf cluster using Raspberry Pi's and built the case using Lego.
I saw that. That was interesting.
I saw that. That was interesting.
I think it was like sick.
I had about eight wide or something ridiculous about that.
It was crazy.
Was that the Southampton University guy?
Yeah, that was the one.
Clearly not good enough work to do.
It was for a university thing.
In that case, that's a hell of a job.
How did you get that job?
You study for years and years and years and you never get out.
And you buy Legos?
I might pass them.
Lots and lots of Legos.
I've got a Legos.
Can we have a start on a stop of the recordings, please?
Thank you, folks. Happy New Year to you all.
Can you just come in like when you're on the train.
Mind the gap.
Why is that necessary, Ken?
Ken fell.
Why is that necessary?
I haven't stopped this recording all day.
Just to make it easier.
Files to work with.
Interneting.
Ken doesn't edit.
He just slaps the intro and the outro on the ends.
Yeah, I made it smaller files.
Yeah, I think the reason I've kind of...
I'm not that keen on arm.
I would rather see the netbook keep going.
You can download any distro and install it on that.
There's not a special ISO for...
You don't have to go out your way to find a particular ISO
for your exact make and model of hardware to install it.
That's a pain in the ass where Android it really is.
I mean, if it goes the way the tablets are fun and all that,
but that just makes it hell of a lot of hassle.
That's changing, though.
First off, I think they're trying to merge
the various different arm trees altogether into one big one.
And going onwards,
all the 64-bit arms will be all in the same tree.
So theoretically, you should be able to have one kernel to rule them all.
At least going on in the future.
That would be sweet.
I just got an on-netbook called the Avatar Titan.
And I kind of love it, but it is Android-based.
But, you know, I put Connectbox on there.
So I could have it as a section.
I'm kind of happy with it.
So that's one thing I wonder,
but all these different mobile operating systems,
like what is it?
It was a lot OS, a Firefox OS,
and the latest of, you know,
a different one from MEGO or whatever.
I think it's when you buy, like, an Android phone,
the only thing you're ever going to install on that is Android.
You might have routed it,
but a different ROM of Android,
but it's still going to be Android.
That's a lot of Fox OS is based loosely on Android.
Yeah, I want GCC.
I want, you know, some of the user land space
of a regular Linux system,
and the power to control everything on it.
So, I mean, that's why I like Merb better.
Yeah, well, I mean, that's a big point.
I mean, I found out that, you know,
what I'm going to have to keep my Pentium 4M mobile laptop.
But that's my heavy one,
and this thing weighs like a pound,
and the other one weighs like,
feels like a ton compared to it.
What I want is a full version of VLC running on something.
You could run VLC on top of Merb,
and it's a regular Linux stack.
I have no idea what Merb is.
You know, I haven't heard of Merb either.
What is this?
I mean, you could come up in your volume a little bit.
Merb is...
Merb is...
Merb.
Merb.
Merb, right?
Yes.
M-E-R.
Is that match for any agents?
It's basically the community continuation of Mego,
and the base for Jala's Selfish OS,
and the ARM base stuff that Plasma Active is using.
See, I still think Mego sounds like it was aimed at Toddlush, you know?
I mean, I could imagine the model of MegoPP, you know?
And then the cloud service MegoPP now, you know?
Yeah, it does some of these names are getting ridiculous
they're coming out with.
Oh, that's Linux guys have named some crap in the past.
I found lately that I've been watching some television shows
that I've downloaded and VLC on my laptop,
and we put that at the end of the bed,
and I've been using my Android VLC remote to control it,
and really, I just want that on my TV.
That's a great experience.
See, when you say...
When you say Linux folk, I've named dodgy things the past,
that's true, but wasn't Mego one of the several things
that was actually a corporate name?
Wasn't it something like Nokia and Intel?
It was a magic between Nokia and Intel.
My mind was the original one, which was brilliant.
Yeah, exactly.
So it's actually it's not just some dude's random project
that's actually some marketing people have sat down
and go, right folks, get your coffee's got your thinking caps on
and come up with some really funky name that we can use
and they come up with Mego, you know.
Yeah, it was Mowblin and Mego.
Mowblin and Mego together equals Mego, apparently.
I'll tip a glass to Mego.
Yeah, that was a great, great operating system.
Basically, just down here.
Mowblin, actually, to be fair, Mowblin might have been
sort of trying to cache in the whole order
of the line thing, a little mobile goblin or something.
I don't know.
Maybe I'm just guessing.
I can't remember why they call it Mowblin.
Mowblin along?
What was the company that did the free runner?
Open Mego.
Oh, that's right.
What about them?
They just went down in the flames.
I didn't get it.
They just came out with the new version.
Yeah.
I'm not sure that they are trying to do a new version,
but the original one, the free runner,
or the Neo 1973, whatever it was called,
for full name.
I don't think it ever quite took off.
By the time they got it to ready to market,
the hardware was all out of date.
Is it taken three years to get to that point?
Mowblin was short for a mobile Linux.
Oh.
We should have guessed that, didn't we?
That makes perfect sense.
I feel dumb too.
Someone mentioned a Firefox one.
Is that that sale?
Oh, yes.
It's boot together.
That's it.
Selfish is Jala's on top of Mer and Merch.
Yeah.
The Firefox is all HTML5, I believe.
There's actually a demo of that that you can download
as a Firefox extension.
I found that on one of the news sites,
like I'm on Toggle or something.
It's like the 80 odd Meg as an XPI fail.
We just run it in Firefox.
It's quite fun.
It's basically a virtual box.
You know the Android emulator.
You get to do any Android development.
It's the same thing as an XPI.
Because basically the boot to Gecko
uses the, I think it's one of the Nexus Android Nexus ROMs
as its basis, stripped all the Java-based stuff off
and they've built the Firefox stack up on top of that.
So you get all of those positives
of having the Android OS bit at the bottom
and then a new GUI on top.
I guess we'll see how it works out.
Yes, it's going to be a free software open source.
You can look at the source code for most of the apps.
It doesn't have a traditional stack of regular applications
that most Linux users would be.
It does.
It does.
It's not the stack is Linux kernel
but then it's basically everything from that point upwards
is used as the Gecko rendering engine.
So they're exposing most of the normal stuff
that you'd get to from the Proc directory
or the CIS directory as APIs.
But the main thing that Mozilla are trying to do
is to get those same APIs pushed into regular HTML browsers
so that...
I mean, can you have like...
We have a platform.
You're up.
You're up.
You can always access...
Bing, bong, bing.
Can you run a terminal inside of it?
Inside of what?
Firefox OS.
Guys, can I just interrupt you a second?
No.
I'm just coming up to the hour
and we've got 45 countries to welcome in New Year now.
Are you ready for these?
Should have started sooner.
We're very happy New Year to Germany.
To Germany, Norway, Switzerland, Austria, Poland, France
with exceptions, Netherlands with exceptions, Sweden, Italy, Barcelona, Spain, Belgium, Denmark, Nigeria, Hungary, Croatia, Libya, Czech Republic, Slovenia, Slovakia, Luxembourg,
Equatorial Guinea, Bosnia-Herzgavina, Angola, Cameroon, Algeria, Benin, Albania, Serbia, Gabon,
Macedon City State, Chad, Lichtenstein, Regions of the Congo Democratic Republic,
San Rino, Monaco, Tunisia, Congo, Mortar, Gibraltar, Kosovo, Macedonia,
Republic of Montenegro, Central African Republic, Niger and Andorra.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
I would have picked over half of those names.
Happy New Year, Ken, if you're around.
Because you want to be done with him.
Happy New Year.
That's right, yeah.
It's New Year for Ken, whoever he is.
He's blowing up his kids with higher techniques.
Yeah, you're right, Ken.
Otherwise known as...
Good to know.
Just in case you're worried.
Right, okay.
So, I'm getting back to our conversation.
Anyone use Connect Bags?
Well, I've found places to connect both of them.
Yeah, I'll play both of them.
But back on the Firefox thing for a second.
I don't see any of these taken off.
Because what you've got is a mature app store
and lots of handsets that people can buy for iOS and for Android.
With, I mean, Microsoft is struggling.
They're pumping us down a money into Windows Phone.
They're not doing well at all.
Nokia have failed miserably.
HP came in with a touchpad.
And that failed miserably as well.
They're not going to be able to get Firefox on devices
for people to actually buy in storage.
And they're going to hold up.
I think I really think you have a point,
the official web.
I think it's going to go to just be Android or Apple.
And I know it's going to be like being people going to be like,
boo, hiss and stuff.
Because we all know better.
But, you know what?
We're all looking at the side of the production chain
where it's mass marketing now.
And that's what they're going to do to us.
And we have to hope that we can hack what we want on our older devices
when we're willing to possibly break them.
Because it's what the normal people want
and who can control those their jerks.
Well, this is the thing.
Well, I don't think...
I don't think that what Mozilla have ever tried to do
is to disrupt the marketplace.
Certainly not since they've become the Mozilla Foundation.
I think what they are trying to do is show the handset manufacturers
if you put all these APIs into your web browser,
you can move more stuff to your web browser.
Which then means that if your developers develop for a single platform
which is HTML5 plus mobile extensions,
which effectively is what Mozilla's writing,
then you can deploy to every handset in one go rather than one handset.
Well, that's what they're going for in Q5 with Android and iOS ports.
Yeah, but that means...
That means that the application you're writing,
you also have to deploy the same binary
with compiled differently on...
Q5, iOS script.
Yeah, but it's still Android binary, iOS binary.
It's a Windows binary, it's Mac OS binary,
it's a Linux binary, it's an ARM binary,
it's a blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
with an HTML5 application,
you install a web browser
in the web browser or it's the APIs for everything else.
And for the benefit of that,
they then get to dump something that people recognize in Android
and you install something as...
and sell, try to sell something to the customer
that the customer doesn't recognize.
Don't know what it is.
It might be a benefit to the carriers,
it might be a benefit to the OEMs,
but the customer's going to look at that and go,
it's not an iPhone, it's not Android.
What is it? Where's all the apps?
I don't care, get me an Android.
This is the thing, they're not selling it.
That's what they're trying to make.
They're not trying to make the OS a platform to sell.
What they're trying to make is a development platform
to prove to developers and to prove to handset manufacturers
that HTML5 is the way to go,
because basically every single application
that is available for Firefox OS
will run on every single platform.
And the code that drives those applications
will always be visible using ViewSource.
And that, that is what Mozilla are aiming for.
They don't care whether HTC build a Firefox OS-based phone.
They want a platform that shows what HTML5 can do at a phone layer.
You sold me, I think it sounds great.
And even if it's not market competitive or whatever,
I mean, it doesn't matter.
It still sounds like a really, really powerful platform,
even just for developers to be able to distribute their programs to more places.
It's a boom for the independent developer,
but you have to remember that the corporate developers
or the corporations that own those developers
don't want their stuff to be open.
Yeah.
They want to lock down and keep everyone in an appliance mode,
so no one knows what's going on,
so they can control their customers.
That's the whole point of being a major corporation.
So maybe they're just trying to show the consumer
that this is the way we want our apps.
Well, when I asked first came out,
they said, we're going to make every single application we've based.
And it was only because the limitations of the platform
they said, actually, we're going to let you write native applications as well.
And that is what Mozilla was trying to do.
They're trying to show that actually what Apple should have done
was fix the platform.
Well, they laid in a dollar short for that, though.
Well, the thing with that was that they had a two-tiered system.
When they started out, they were the only ones that were allowed
to have native apps.
So they already had native apps.
And they said, oh, yeah, you can only use the web apps.
So comparing the two at the time,
the native ones were so much better.
And they were able to do more.
Even if it's about showing customers and showing end users
the benefits of open, I mean, most users don't know what open is.
They don't care what openness.
And the reason Android works is they can go into a phone manufacturer
and hold an iPhone side by side with an Android phone.
And they hold up to each other.
They compete on merit.
People don't know what open or close is.
They go, I like this phone.
And I don't like this phone.
So open doesn't matter.
Clores doesn't mean anything to them.
Yeah, but it does do to developers and people who want to be on the
developers.
I think you're still, I don't know whether you're missing the point
that I'm not trying to be on tagging a stick.
I'm sorry.
If I don't know, if basically I get them,
John, think that Mozilla are doing what you think they're doing.
They're not releasing a phone.
They're not releasing a hardware device.
They're releasing a platform.
They're basically writing a platform.
They're writing a Linux.
So that it's up to someone else to say,
I'm going to build an Ubuntu for phone.
So if you want to,
Firefox.
So if you want to and you had a regular Linux stack,
you could just add the Firefox OS stack on top of that
and be able to open up all the Firefox OS things.
Correct.
You can anyway.
You've got Firefox installed on your laptop.
The main thing that Firefox OS does is it makes things like
the GSM chip api available to the browser.
It makes the GPS chip api available to the browser.
Can it encode to Opus?
That stuff doesn't particularly matter.
Hey guys, I could use a little help here.
Can someone explain to my wife why there is no flash on her Nexus 7?
Because Adobe said that they didn't want to support
the any of the mobile devices, basically.
You can install another browser,
which will download a flash package.
It's called something along the lines of...
Don't they have a browser?
No, it's called XScopePro.
When you install it, it says...
That sounds like a medical procedure.
You have a flash in the door.
Would you like me to download the flash, install the files?
As soon as you say...
The right answer to that is no.
On the packs flash.
Feel fine.
Or politics.
My wife is making funny faces at Class 2.
She didn't like the right answer.
I think when it comes to the point where Adobe
are just not given two hooks about fixing vulnerabilities
and fixing updates that each new update,
each new vulnerability that's found isn't fixed,
it makes your phone or your tablet more and more
and more susceptible to attack with every new update
and Google decided to screw it.
We'll protect our users and build it.
If you're doing this on one to use it,
you'll have to jump through hoops and get it some other way
but we're not going to help you infect yourself.
I think Adobe wants flash to die as much as anybody else.
Yeah, it's been given up on flash anyway.
Yeah, it's a pretty funny place to be.
It seems like they've given up users.
Adobe with the ones that said we're not making flash available anymore.
Well, all right, okay, fair enough then.
Yeah, Apple snubbed them.
Apple with the first few Steve Jobs basically said
like no flash devices ever going to appear on an iPhone or an iPad
or something.
That was a major smack in the face to Adobe.
But after that others seem to have followed suit.
Well, Adobe actually making any money out of flash
because that usually explains a lot of things in the text stream.
Are they making money out of it?
No, then they'll drop it.
See, they'll make money out of the development kits
out of the Adobe flash maker or flash creator or whatever it is
and sell licenses for that,
but they won't actually make money from the downloads.
The more people I've got it,
the more people will make flash videos and flash sites
and stuff like that,
so they'll need the flash developer kits.
My answer to my wife I told her is because Adobe is a bag of assholes.
But maybe the question I should have asked is,
does anyone know of a way for her to watch an Amazon flick
on her Nexus 7?
It's not a download option for Amazon if you buy it.
There's an app streaming before the X scope, bro.
You could download the flash video onto a computer
and then use them to convert it into something your phone understands.
Does Amazon have the app to play it?
They certainly have a store browser app.
I mean, it's just like the Amazon love film account thing
where it's got DRM on it.
No way.
So I'm succulent flash.
Yeah, I think it was their rental streaming service
that she's trying to use on there.
I was thinking I really should just install that tiny DLNA
that Demetri was talking about.
Yeah, it's a strange one because I think it's...
because obviously you can watch love film from a Kindle Fire HD,
which is affected, you know, it's an Android tablet.
But there's no app that I can find for love film
on the Nexus 7.
I don't know what's going on there.
I don't think there is one.
The Kindle Fire is barely it's Android,
but only just it's been tweaked the hell out of by Amazon
for Amazon's services.
So you'd be kind of expected to work with Amazon stuff.
First, I've got their own app stuff.
Yeah, for sure.
But, you know, they've lost me as a customer now
because I can't watch all my Nexus 7.
Yeah.
Do you...
Is there a service that you can watch movies on your Nexus?
Netflix.
Netflix works.
Yeah.
To be fair, Netflix.
The app's really good for Netflix as well.
Both on Android and the consoles as well.
The app for Netflix.
I've found a lot better than, you know,
the actual love film app, which is just shit.
Yeah.
I cancelled my love film last night,
because mainly because it was...
The streaming was just goddamn awful.
And also, the app just didn't compare to Netflix at all.
It's like, when you're watching a series on Netflix,
you can watch one after another,
and then come back and manipulate it and pick it up.
But on love film, there was none of that.
It was like, you have to...
Like, physically remember what you'd watched,
and I can't be used to do that.
Yeah.
Sometimes it's to be streaming.
The same thing doesn't work.
I've found on love film.
Sometimes it's just regaining something that you're watching
say yesterday.
It doesn't work anymore.
In Netflix's subscription only, right?
You can't do like a one-time rental with them.
I don't know.
We might watch...
Yeah, we might watch one movie a month.
To be fair, we already did.
To be fair with love film,
it was...
I think it was one of Amazon's worst moves
in that they bought a sucky company
and added extra suck to it.
So, yeah, I wouldn't bother too much.
We got rid of cable about two years ago,
and I switched to...
We have all Roku boxes,
and I've been using Netflix exclusively,
along with Hulu Plus,
and to balance with you,
I mean, we have Amazon Prime Streaming on there as well.
And we don't really miss anything.
Yeah, I'm right on the edge of doing this myself.
Hey, does Netflix still offer the DVDs
sending to your house and whatnot in the U.S.?
Yes.
Hey, John, the nice guy.
We're there,
and it's telling her to download the Flash Player
and it's asking her what source to choose.
It says XDA or Adobe.
Do you have a recommendation?
With Adobe, to be honest,
but I wouldn't...
I don't know, there's too much of an issue either way.
I think it's more in case one of them stops working.
Fair enough, thank you.
From which direction would you like your suck to come from?
Yeah, I know.
Hey, Pokey, what version of Android is that tablet running?
The latest and greatest?
I haven't the fog yet.
They could probably find out though.
Also, I have to say that, you know, I have a Kindle Fire,
the original one,
and I don't really...
I primed too, and I don't really watch movies on it.
It's probably the least compelling thing to watch video on that
versus surfing the web on that while watching Amazon
or something on my Roku.
I use my tablet exclusively for listening to LinuxOutlaws.com.
So you're saying...
Check it out.
She's holding her movie the wrong way.
Or, well, I didn't mean to come across like that.
I was just anecdotally sharing my experience with my Kindle Fire.
I'll try watching a movie on a fuse.
Does LinuxOutlaws.com still work?
I thought it's sexgun.
But what are sexgun.org these days?
I think it redirects.
I'd have to check again.
I'm fairly certain it's still redirects.
I'm going to get sucked for misbranding, aren't I?
I don't think LinuxOutlaws runs on my Kindle.
They're too bad ass.
Yeah.
Just too bad.
Just too bad, I think.
Oh, yes, sorry.
They added the word.
That thump you heard was done following off his cheered going,
what?
I was only joking.
I only listen to LinuxOutlaws on Android.
I use my Android phone for all my podcasts.
Yeah, me too.
I use BeyondPod, which is a freedom-hating one, but it's very good.
Yeah, me as well.
That's also what I use.
I'm on pocketcasts.
I use pocketcasts.
I hear a lot about that pocketcasts.
Space to be good.
Yeah, Fab recommended it to me.
It's, oh, 11, I think it was.
And yeah, I'll get one with it.
It's, but I think it's a paid for one.
So, uh, buy you socks.
No, I think it is.
I'm still using WGIT.
Good man.
Now that's hardcore.
Oh, I feel a bit left out, to be honest.
The command line is the only way to go.
You were just an inch away from Linux from scratch, aren't you there?
I wrote a pod catcher in assembly for 888.
Nice.
Nice.
I'd like that.
You could use BashPodder, Phil.
Yeah, if you want, if you want to be in the terminal.
Yeah, no, it's too, it's too difficult, mate.
I used BashPodder for a long time and I'm basically retarded.
You know, I have tried BashPodder actually.
It's pretty good.
But I don't tend to, I think I'll do it in an odd way.
I tend to subscribe to stuff in Google Reader.
And then when I see that it's got, there's a new release.
I, um, write copy.
Right click on the link.
Copy it.
And then paste it into the terminal after WGIT.
And then listen to it.
I don't know why I do that.
So you are a manual.
I don't catcher.
It's what you're telling us.
You're a manually pod catcher and stuff.
I do.
That's pretty much it.
Yeah.
So when I do podcast, I can just have you get it for me and send it over.
Yeah.
I do a similar thing with a, uh, uh, we scanned the streams with, uh, with, uh, links feed reader.
And then I copy and I use area two instead of WGIT.
So I'm basically doing the same thing as you are.
But I don't listen to every single podcast in a series.
That's why I do it.
So I have a reason, I guess.
Well, and I've started actually using, I've got another, um, reader here called feed on feeds
that I've got on my domain.
And the reason I've got my podcast feeds in there is because I can actually get to that
from work.
So I can actually listen to stuff at work if I want to.
And I can kind of scan through and look at more feeds.
Because I actually pull down all the podcasts off of internet archive.
So I can kind of scan through those as well.
Yeah.
I think, I think my W, uh, get, uh, addiction stems from when I had, for years, I had a really bad
internet connection on like a dongle.
And it would, you know, download Linux outlaws and it would take me an entire more, an entire
morning.
So, you know, it, and often it would break and WGIT could resume it.
And I think I'll just stuck with it.
Phil, that basically means you've declared yourself as an RSS reader with shoes.
I thought you could have said sucks.
That would have worked so much better if you said an RSS reader with suck.
Yeah.
For real proxy.
Hey, John, my wife said, thank you.
And I have to thank you too.
Because I think you got me some cuddle time with her later on.
Uh-huh.
Woohoo.
Steady on.
So the reason I like RIA 2 over WGIT, and I think Mr. Klatu is a, uh, get WGIT guy too if I'm not mistaken.
But RIA 2 includes a, uh, a, uh, torrent client in it.
So I can just do everything from this for us.
I'm concerned.
The reason I switched to BeyondPod was because, um, sorry.
I didn't mean to derail the conversation because I know Klatu was mentioned.
But the reason I switched to BeyondPod is because listen sucks so bad.
But I used Google reader, and it was really easy to subscribe to things when I'm at the desk and then have it download onto my phone.
I'm a Google refugee.
I'm now a duck duck go man myself.
I try to stay away from those guys.
That sounds like a new service.
Google refugee.
I bet we're just coming there.
Duck duck go and Yassi are my defaults now.
What's that one? Yassi?
Yassi is actually a surgeon.
Yeah, it's a distributed search engine.
You can actually download the, the client and put it on your machine and actually run it and do it, build your own it, um, web index.
And you actually can share it with a whole bunch of other people like, kind of like a torrent sharing.
It's kind of neat.
Oh, you so have to do an HPR episode on how to do that.
That's the ideal service for personal blush.
Speaking of torrents, did Cobra 2 want to talk?
Are you biting at the hook for me to get on here?
Yeah.
He just knows Cobra 2 always wants to talk about torrents.
I love torrents man.
It's, it's the way of the future and the past and it's how you get busted by the MPAA.
Yeah, how are we going to avoid six tracks, Cobra 2?
Um, me, uh, private trackers not being on the wrong private tracker using a, um, not, not being stupid with what you download.
That sounds like you have to be able to infiltrate a network of predefined torrent people who are all on the same private tracker, right?
Or you just have to know somebody.
Objection leading the witness.
Or you just run the dang thing yourself.
So, well, no, I think where he was going with that and I've wondered about this is, are they going to ping you for the six strike rule?
Are they going to ping you for using bit torrent or, you know, for using the protocol or, or are they going to look at what you're actually torrenting and, and ping you for copyright infringement?
I know they're going to have to think about it that hard.
As far as I know, this is how, uh, getting tracked down through bit torrent works.
You have every individual torrent has a torrent hash, right?
And that's, uh, as you download pieces, they're checked with a SH one hash.
So to verify that you're, you're not sending bad pieces to people.
So what happens is you'll have these malicious clients that will connect to a swarm and they will download pieces of a torrent that is either has been submitted by, you know, one of the agencies themselves trying to get people to, you know, to download it.
Or they'll, they will have verified that the torrent actually has copyrighted content in it.
How they do that is in a gray area.
So what they actually do is like when they connect to the swarm and start downloading a piece or two from this peer and this peer in that peer and they see who has, has every single piece, they can identify the IP addresses of those clients.
And they will pull just down a piece or two and check and make sure that the piece is passes the hash check, which lets them know that that peer has the actual goods and it's not just seating dummy data.
Okay, that makes sense.
So doing creative common stuff should not earn you a strike.
Oh, hell no. If you're doing creative common stuff, seating bit torrent distros or anything like that, you're, you're sweetening in the clear.
I've actually been kind of worried about that a bit, like false positives and stuff.
Yeah, that's what I mean, I know it shouldn't ping you, but I mean it shouldn't ping you.
Yeah, one of these, given how many times you hear on YouTube of one of the major record labels saying, oh, we all not take it down when they don't want to.
One was like birds tripping in the background.
Yeah, I was about downloading a, a, a techno piece and some, some somebody had me in the tracking database, but it wasn't anything I got pinged for.
It was just some demonstration thing for somebody who wanted, some company that wanted to break into that business.
I mean, we're a nice goal in life, but jeesh, you know, it's just a little scary.
I think your nerds are focusing on the least interesting part of this tour tracker.
Have you checked it?
Have you checked it? You have downloady.com if it's still up.
Yeah, it was like you have download, but you know, that's a, that's a thing, you know, I mean us nerds aren't chasing the latest Hollywood blockbusters.
I mean, can new waves puts out another movie? We're not going to be bit downloading a bit to him, right?
I definitely won't. That's for sure.
Well, something like everyone in here is seeing every Keanu Reeves movie there is. So yeah, apparently yes.
We're like how it's turned fans. We hope who hate how it's turned. We keep watching it compulsively.
I was interested, you know, I was interested in the tracker more than anything as a chance for people to get their content out there, creators.
There's three albums up there right now.
Oh, yeah, I didn't even say that I'd run it. Did I?
You didn't say anything about it.
Oh, yeah. I'm supposed to announce on this show sometimes that I have a private tracker for creative comments content.
And it's very buggy, but the tracker works.
And I'm just kind of working through the kinks right now.
I'll post a link in the mumble chat and get so that folks can register.
But it's buggy as hell.
So it's getting video stuff off of news groups, like you know, past say now or something. No one does anyone but me?
No, I do that as well.
I think I read somewhere that the news groups are shutting down.
They do that every two or three years, man.
Oh, this time I believe him. I thought the world was ending.
No, they're just getting hammered with some very large DMCA takedowns and whatnot.
But if you're grabbing, if you've got something that's grabbing your content, you know, within two or three days of it,
getting put on the news groups, you're fine.
If you're running your own indexer, you know, it's no big deal.
News nab is free and open source.
I think you would just listen to the mind news groups.
That was the joke I was attempting to make.
Happy New Year.
Hey, we still don't know.
Is it?
Is it?
I'll be back in a little.
I want to know if it's just considered poor taste to wish a Mayan happy New Year.
Did we go over this already?
I saw someone posting on a common witch panel at which service it was now that they said,
I really hope that the predicted end of the world happening doesn't happen when the,
when the, our calendar, our calendar reset is on 31st of December,
like the Mayan did on the, oh, hang on a second.
I just want to find a fatalist sometime tonight and wish them happy New Year.
That's all I want to do.
I think with the Mayan thing, it makes me think of the rapture and I think the rapture
if it actually happened would be hysterical.
And can you imagine driving down the parkway and the guy in the car next to you just goes
to the roof of his car up to heaven and his car swerves off the road.
It would be hysterical.
The rapture, the rapture, the rapture did happen.
It's in the record books.
It was done by blondie.
Check it out.
No, no, no, no.
I'm not sure.
The rapture, a feet floor.
That's too deep.
Deep geek, why do you assume it's not you getting sucked up to heaven?
Your car might drive in my veer into his.
Oh, come on.
If you leave the whole person going through the roof of the car, that was called texting and
driving.
Hey, now, I mean, this is company I don't want to keep, you know, that pokey.
So not to change the subject again, but going back to it, did somebody say that there was a
pod catcher that had a, um, torrent client built into it?
I know there's a torrent client that has an RSS speed reader, both into it.
What is that?
Uh, K torrent has a plug in for that.
Okay, because I mean, I really think that that's kind of the missing link for podcasts.
That's, I mean, that's, that's what's going to push them over the edge and make them the new radio.
Literally the new radio is just for people to have a, a, a, a bit torrent of them, you know what I mean?
If you're part of that, then, uh, shell script, surely.
Why don't I think we do good?
You used to have that built in.
What did?
iPodder X before they stopped supporting Linux.
That would be great if you had that actually on like a, like a phone or a tablet device where the,
where they had bit torrent support built into the actual downloading protocol.
It's, it's surely not just, uh, rejects the, the feed, uh, in cron and then just point back to your torrent, surely.
Where's redgex? Did you just read me, bro?
It would ever happen to BT live.
Is that dead?
I haven't checked lately.
That's that, that's where bit towards, bit towards streaming.
I saw something where you could use magnet links to try to stream files and they had like a sort of a KDE,
KO magnet to try to use, uh, magnet and, uh, bit torrent files, almost as if they were on your device.
That was going to be my next question is if you had, uh, if you were to publish a podcast and do it via bit torrent with like a magnet link,
I mean, then just your listening community takes care of the rest, right?
I mean, you keep seeding it, but they, they share the heavy lifting.
I mean, that's, that's what's supposed to happen with bit torrents.
Yeah, ideally, yeah, that's, that's what happens.
There's one issue with that.
I can see if you're relying on that, um, as your primary method or your only method of distribution,
I can see an issue with that.
And it's every podcast, um, with a few exceptions are time sensitive.
So your audience is not going to share, uh, I mean, look at learning how it was.
They put out an episode every, almost every week and maybe, maybe more than one a week.
Who's going to share the last one when the new one comes out?
They'll share it maybe for a week.
They'll share it for a week.
That's what you need.
Yeah, so basically once, once there's a new episode out, the older ones,
people won't be seeding them anymore.
So they would have to go into some archive anyway.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Once you have that, if you have the one that has like the whole back catalog,
you might have people swarming that like if you had, uh, 2011's archive.
And when someone's going back, they would go through and download each of the years.
And people still might be seeding it if it was all together.
But they might not see it.
It's just individual.
The other thing you have to remember with Torrance is part of the specification
actually does allow for a file that's being seeded to exist on the server.
Well, I was under the impression that, uh, with a torrent you effectively create
or the program somehow creates an MD5 some of that complete package
so that you can add to it.
If you're saying all of 2012 so far, and then you add another episode to it,
you can't actually add that onto the same torrent.
You need to create a new torrent with all that new stuff and a new one in it,
which means it'll be differently seeded, you know.
It's a, it's a, uh, it's a shall one hash.
And, uh, yeah, you're exactly right.
If you do something as simple as like changing the tag of the file,
you've changed the file.
It's no longer the same file that was in the torrent.
Yeah, but that's really okay because most people who have an RSS reader or a pod catcher
or whatever they're using to get their podcast, those things refresh at most every 12 hours.
So you really only need to run the thing for a week.
Everybody gets what they need to get.
And then the torrent thins out just like any other torrent.
And you still have the original on your own server or you put it on archive.org
or, you know, some such thing.
And there's, there's still torrent trackers that are going to seed it just so that they have the media.
I mean, just because it's a podcast doesn't mean no one's going to seed it.
It, it's just, uh, you know, I mean, I think that's the way for, for a show like hacker public radio specifically,
where, you know, uh, however many listeners we have is interesting to know,
but it's not really critical.
We're not trying to, to monetize it or anything like that.
Uh, you know, that's where I think that, that spreading that loadout would help, you know,
the servers wouldn't cost as much.
Uh, you know, and everybody really could be a part of, of, of every part of HPR at the same time.
One thing that you're probably overlooking is that some countries, uh,
the ISPs heavily throttle the bit torrent traffic so that they might make it impractical in some countries.
And not, not only that, but some, um, public networks, universities, colleges and whatnot,
they completely block bit torrent traffic.
Yeah.
So I think you have a great point, Poké, and with something with hack-a-pull-gray,
with the amount of listeners that has, it's really useful.
But for smaller podcasts, I, and still in general, I think,
I think it's good to have it as a supplemental way of getting it out than the main.
I've got, put a lot of podcasts as well, especially techie podcasts.
They are, um, time sensitive.
There's only a certain amount of time while that information's valid.
Uh, I mean, that, I came to log radio just as it was near and it's end,
and it's like fifth season or something like that.
And I thought it was brilliant.
But go back and look, look at that now.
They're listening to an episode now.
I mean, it's entertaining, but there's not much news value.
And, uh, productions, what do you think is going to come in a Ubuntu 610, you know?
It's not exactly something that's valid, no?
Yeah, but those are news-based shows.
I mean, a lot of hacker-public radio and, you know,
canoe world order episodes aren't really news-based.
They're just like, here's a cool tip.
And those tend to remain valid.
Look at Linux reality.
A lot of those episodes are still valid.
Yeah, I was going to mention reality.
That's still really popular.
I still direct people to that for, you know, specific topics.
Yeah, it's a good reference.
What I would like to know about Torrent is,
I would like to know if, um, using a magnet links
and the so-called torrentless tracker tracking
or a tracker tracker tracker list torrenting.
Does that, is that true?
Can you really, like, avoid being tracked because of magnet links?
Well, if you create a magnet link,
you can actually create it without a tracker.
And the actual tracker space, you can do that.
But any time I've tried it, it doesn't connect to anything.
And so, but as far as I can work out, it needs a tracker.
But yeah, if you download stuff through torrents,
if you download the magnet link,
and you look in that box and the properties, it's empty.
So obviously it can be done.
I just don't know how to do it.
I think magnet links only work.
Well, if there's like a decent amount of people
more than just the regular torrent file.
So if you had, like, at least over 50 people
seeding it, then it might be decent.
But if you had less than that, you might want just the regular torrent file
might be quicker.
Well, I didn't just try to connect to one person,
but it's so hard with a magnet link to find the right one person
who has all their shit configured right,
that you can actually connect to them and download from them.
And there's so many people that just use that friggin'
or whatever, and shut off their upload completely.
And by the time you connect to them,
they've choked you out so bad that you can't even download from them.
Hey, I need to end it up here for a second.
We're approaching 50 listeners here,
which would be about two thirds of our total capacity.
And it looks like about two thirds of the people
in the room are just muted and some are even muted and deafened.
If folks are just in the mumble to listen,
could you please log out a mumble and use one of the streams instead?
I know the sound quality is not quite as good,
and it was a little bit of a delay,
so it makes feedback in the IRC a little tougher.
But the last thing we wanted to is crash the server
or have that kind of problem going on tonight.
So I'd just ask, if you're just listening,
just please hop onto a stream instead.
Hey, we're just out in the room.
Get in here at two talks, so do it now, Sue.
Yeah, I got to take a bite because I got to catch up with my in-laws.
But thanks, guys, and I'll be listening to the whole week.
This whole stuff comes out.
It's been a lot of fun to talk to you guys all live for a change.
Deep game.
We love you.
Happy New Year.
And enjoy yourself.
Take it down.
Yeah, see you later.
I'll be leaving again, too.
Good.
Happy 2013.
Thanks, all.
See you, man.
OK.
See you.
Happy New Year.
Bye, all.
Bye, all.
That's something I wanted to say about news.
Something I wanted to say about news shows
is some that do news on the side.
Something's kind of interesting I've seen
and I'll use Radio Freak America for this one.
It's really kind of interesting when those shows loop back around in the tech world.
Yeah, that is cool.
And by the way, I didn't mean to say that people had to leave.
You know, if you're going to unmute and start talking,
by all means, that's why we're here.
You know, that's why we wanted people in on it.
I didn't mean to scare people off with that.
You're the grim reaper of HBO.
The anti-cancellant.
The anti-cancellant.
The anti-cancellant.
And on that bombshell, I'm going to drop off as well,
because I've got in-look-out relatives and stuff, I need to phone and stuff.
But I will be back probably around about half past 12.
Maybe a little bit later, guys.
Happy New Year.
But we have a new year.
New year's New York Camp.
New year coming soon.
And everybody listened to C.C. hits.
Yeah.
Yeah, do that.
I'm going to come back, I'll talk about that more, because I can't beat Beat in my own drum.
I've heard that.
Yeah, that's good, man.
I had to talk about it for you last year.
You beat Mozilla's drum pretty well earlier, mate.
Wasn't that the name of one of their project, anyway, I'm going to go in and...
I feel like, guys.
I'm saying you.
Damn.
Can you tell us about Linux Outlaw's life?
Yeah, yeah, let me think you're not put me on a spot there. Yeah, yeah, it's, I'm just trying to move the dates.
17th, 17th of February, probably mainly of interest to the UK listeners because if you guys want to fly over from other parts of the world,
you'd be more than welcome, but I can have many people be able to do that.
So it's the 17th of February, it's in Liverpool, it's our 300th episode, which is why we're getting people together.
And we're going to do a show in front of a kind of audience, small audience.
So think there's about 100 tickets available, something that we haven't actually put them on sale yet.
And they're going to be about five pounds, five British pounds, so hopefully nice and nice and cheap for everyone.
And all money that we, you know, comes in, we'll go to the software Freedom Conservancy and support their work, you know,
of course, and the GPL and generally supporting freedom. And there's a page on the Linux out of those website.
If you go to 6GUN.org, I think it's slash LOL, LOL, you know, we tried really hard with that.
I think that's where it is, but I'll find a link now.
Yeah, the finale of the show was far been done and doing like, you can leave your heart on thing.
It's stuck like that.
Yeah, it might be, yeah, then so much money we get.
You didn't set up the high speed rail from New York yet, did you?
Now, yeah, unfortunately, if you get on a boat now, if you get on a, if you get on a ship right now, you'd be here in time.
Yeah, I'll start rowing.
Damn, we'll be streaming it.
No, probably not. It will be recorded, but no, it won't be live streaming because the idea is to get people to come along.
But it will be, it will be released afterwards as a podcast.
I want to know why people think just because an event is live stream that people wouldn't actually go to it.
I'm really getting tired of that.
It just seems like kind of a bullshit.
Oh, no, a few live streams that I'm not going.
Normally, I would agree, and I've had that argument with people from the, from the other side.
I just have no time to think about streaming it at the moment. I haven't sorted tickets out yet.
I don't know. We haven't really discussed it. My kind of feeling is it probably won't be, but I don't know exactly yet.
But Dan, you're going to have to look at it. I'm up for it.
Yeah, that, I mean, the whole, I just don't have times a hell of a lot more believable than,
oh, if I can't go to, you know, if we live stream, this people won't go to it.
The experience is always different being somewhere in person versus watching it recorded.
To be fair, to Dan, he does, he's, when he does his, uh, rat hole radio, his live shows, he always streams them.
So I don't think it's anything, you know, malicious.
Oh, I wasn't meeting that to be an attack on, uh, Dan, or say.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
Everyone's going back in and back in the way now.
Colin, Dan, you mean bullshit.
Do you think you will actually sell all of the hundred tickets to the UK bass listeners?
I've got no idea. I hope so, but I've really got no idea.
It feels like you would, but maybe, I don't know, it's hard to know where your fan base is,
whether it's all in the UK or just global, you know.
Um, I think it's mixed here.
I mean, we said the same to the sort of things before I camp one and look what happened there.
Well, probably no.
Yeah, probably no.
Well, possessionally in the UK, Liverpool has to be cheaper than, um, in the,
way down south for people.
It's also has to be more kind of central for people, um, from all over the country rather than,
rather than just going to one corner, you know.
I think so, but, um, you know what, it's like everybody always wants it in their backyard
and they always complain that it's not in their backyard.
Well, it's if you drive to Liverpool, you've got to buy new tyres after they steal them.
So,
pack some spare.
There's, I thought they'd just pull out the caps.
Hey, I'm a servant now, I've got to take the piss out of Liverpool.
Yeah, um, get a train.
Actually, there needs to be a mod for Grand Theft Auto to turn it into Grand Theft Liverpool
and of little animations, a guy stealing hubcups for bonus points.
Yeah, I think there is one somewhere.
In the fifth scale.
Nevermind, it's such a bad price.
Yeah, it's an unjustified, um, it's a beautiful city.
Yeah, it's so weird, I didn't feel any threats at all when I was over there.
And I'm a servant, eh?
I did this.
If you were going to do a video game that represented Liverpool crime,
you'd have to change the name completely, you'd have to change it to something like,
eight fucking Liverpool.
I thought it was possible, possibly.
And I had a joke in mind about some little, um, like crossing somewhere,
where if you can't have to go down at the right time,
you've got four of the Beatles walking across,
you can mow them down for extra points.
But that was Abbey Road and was on the belief, Abbey Road is.
Not actually a lot of people, so.
It's in London, yeah.
Although, I mean, you're saying about having a bad reputation on that.
And I think it's true that reputation is not really fair.
But this year we did have, um,
I thought they were joking, but people told me they'd been offered, um, DVDs in the pub.
Some Chinese man coming around offering them, like, basically, uh,
copyright, you know, the pirate DVDs.
And I thought they were joking.
And I was like, oh, very funny, very funny.
And then he offered me DVDs and I thought, uh,
we get that out of our bootcamp.
Never mind.
Time trading standards are always rated in the car boot sales round here,
because we're so close to the ports.
I even saw a guy walking around with a computer in the bar.
Yeah, in a carrier bag, yeah.
If it wasn't for that, for that brisk sale on DVDs and videos and stuff like that,
the bars wouldn't exist.
Tell you, it just wouldn't exist.
That's true.
Becky, you're a southerner.
Yes, I'm from Hampshire.
She's a foreigner.
Could you say I'm a foreigner?
Just for me, because it's like my favorite line ever on in the many way.
Could you say fucking northern monkeys?
Fucking northern monkeys.
Is this a lockstuck reference?
Yeah.
Where is that from, man?
Lockstuck and two smoking barrels to film.
Is that bit where there's the two scourses in it?
And he goes, and as they're walking away,
the cockney guy goes, uh, back in northern Monkies.
And then they both go.
That's sea sludden.
Fairies.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's fucking where I'm from.
From Monkies.
There you go.
Yeah, movie was great.
It's kind of, it's top 10.
It's the way he says he says he asked him to hire, to steal some shotguns.
And then one of them goes, what do you mean like guns, the fire shot?
Yeah.
I can see all the brains of the operation.
Actually, there's a reply to, um, uh, fucking northern monkeys.
Because he actually says it about a bunch of, uh, two lads from Liverpool.
Um, as he's walking away from the conversation,
is there sitting there, is he's walking away?
There he goes.
I hate these sudden, shandy drinking bastards.
Sudden fairies are there.
Sudden fairies.
Yeah.
Are they saying at some point in the movie, don't they?
Yeah.
I think why is shandy drinking bastards?
There's a few in there.
You know, Dan, when you said that,
some fairies, it was almost a Welsh.
Well, Wales is south of you, I suppose.
Kind of south of me, as well.
Yeah.
And kind of northwest of my old house.
Oh, I can see Wales from here.
I think I saw there.
I could do that.
I could go to the beach and see Wales, literally.
That movie had Brad Pitt in it, right?
No, that's Snatch.
That's the...
Oh, okay.
All right.
That's the one I'm thinking of.
Because he was...
It's a guy Richie film, though.
Also a good movie, as was Rock and Roller.
But I would just like to ask some of the Brits,
was Brad Pitt on that movie.
Doing some type of accent, or was it a killer?
It just sounded ridiculous.
He was a pike, I think.
He's supposed to be, yeah, he's supposed to be a gypsy,
with an Irish accent.
He's supposed to be a proper Irish pikey, yeah.
Okay.
And how did his accent...
I couldn't understand half of it.
Yeah, that's what he was saying.
Oh, no, I think that's the point.
I thought he was brilliant in that movie.
Anyway, then again, Brad Pitt's excellent.
And everything he does really, so...
It's a good actor.
Yeah, he's a good actor.
That's like...
Is it Leonardo DiCaprio doing a dodgy Irish accent
in the gangs of New York films these days?
That was bad, that was worse.
That was worse.
The worst one was Sean Connery in Untouchables.
That was appalling.
Well, he didn't even try and be like anything.
He just, Sean Connery isn't he, and everything.
Yeah, I've done a rough accent.
Yeah, exactly.
That was my thing.
You know, you don't have...
I'm throwing up to over.
Yeah, exactly.
That's supposed to be a Russian.
You don't hire a Scott.
And speak in English, you know?
Yeah, exactly.
He's a good dude.
Like in the, in the guy rich, he movies when he uses subtitles.
That just cracks me up.
Mm.
And it's helpful, it works.
I wonder how many times he's been asked whether he's had a stroke or not.
Who?
Sean Connery.
So, on Brad Pitt, anyone playing on scene World War Z when that hits?
That was filmed in Scotland, doesn't it?
I got no idea.
Yeah, they filmed a lot of the street scenes.
It's either Glasgow or Edinburgh.
It represents...
There's quite a good likeness to an American city apparently.
Because it's real bass, doesn't it?
Yeah.
So I'm going to do it.
It's got nice wide streets and stuff, so...
Yeah, but Milton Keynes is grid based as well.
It lacks the character that the Scottish towns have.
Just a bit.
Apparently, it's one of Scotland's main sources of income
is renting out their streets to Hollywood film producers.
And their castles?
Really?
Yeah, yeah.
The Hollywood plotter was...
A lot of that was filmed in Scotland.
I found it hilarious that they filmed large parts of Captain America in Liverpool.
You know that?
Oh, did they?
And Sherlock Holmes?
Sherlock Holmes as well.
I don't forget.
There's been loads of stuff in film.
Whenever they need docs of a certain age, they always come to Liverpool.
Well, on Captain America, that makes sense since about half that movie
or more happens in Europe.
Yeah, but it's meant to be New York.
There's a bit where he's chasing the guy down the street
and they're supposed to be in Brooklyn.
And you can see that they've superimposed the Brooklyn Bridge with CGI
on the doc road in Liverpool.
Because I was watching it going,
that's the doc road in Liverpool, as he's walking running down it
and they've kind of CGIed the bridge on behind him.
Oh, it's also Britain.
It's not Europe, right?
Not yet.
Right.
It's on mood, we're in.
Yeah, you've got...
We've only got 12 in there as well.
No.
We've only got 12 hours on that podcast left,
so you don't want to start that conversation up right now.
Yeah, right now.
Thanks.
Well then, maybe for things that will cause other flame wars,
anyone brought up the whole countdown on a bun two?
That count right now.
My husband constantly.
I'm just going to have a session over this.
I would like to get Dan's input on this,
seeing as he's a man in the know and Linux news and all that.
He should have a fairly good educated guess.
What's coming out in 42 hours, Dan,
because I'm Philip Wantson.
What's coming out?
I've no idea.
Probably just jumped in the IRC channel.
I've been to a selection in Norm.
Popeye would know.
Popeye would be in London to ask.
It probably is part.
It probably sign on.
Yeah, we need to be on the show here as well in there.
Jesus.
So we could actually cross examine here.
I think we would just start a big rumor
and then like someone pretend to be Popeye
would like to confirm it.
Just see how far we can get.
So I don't know.
A bunch of switching to when there's eight is the base.
Yeah, that'll work.
It's bound to be some kind of touch screen based device
because they've put the line.
You can almost touch it on the page,
which is just got to be some kind of touch window.
That's nice.
When you can almost touch it,
that's just like a touch on.
I feel it's with the bugs not quite.
No, yeah.
It's possible.
It's a tablet where it doesn't even have a resistive screen.
You have to use a mouse with it.
They might be open.
They might be open.
It means it's a new prawn app.
They could almost open a whole new line of lap dancing clubs
with that.
Couldn't they?
You can almost touch it.
But not quite.
It's 3D prawn.
That's what it is.
It's 3D prawn.
Yeah.
It's for those folks who continuously punch their computer screens
and they actually feel like they're hitting something.
That's what it is.
It's you need to get in a 3D overhaul.
You actually need to wear 3D glasses to use your computer.
Wow.
I don't know.
In the end, it just seems like a bunch is trying to once again play catch up with the big boys
because Apple releases hardware.
Google's doing hardware.
Microsoft started doing the hardware.
A bunch who's like, oh shit, to be taken serious,
we've got to do this too to catch up.
So I just put in the IRC channel.
You can almost touch it.exx.
Nice.
Someone also just put in the IRC channel.
It's about 4.5 minutes to UTC midnight.
So that's a big one.
It is.
It is.
Yep, it is.
I've got my 25 countries lined up to read out.
Shall I start now?
It's like your revision.
It's great.
Neil Pois.
Neil Pois.
Neil Pois.
Neil Pois.
No surprise there.
You're going to have a hard time reading out those local places without trying to give the weather
while you're at it.
It's raining.
Yeah, that's easy.
Shocker.
It rains over there.
Oh, the bloody time.
We've had a year of it.
In fact, they called a drought in what?
March, April time.
And it's done nothing but piss it down ever since.
We've had a lot of floods since that drought.
Does it be the worst drought in the world?
It's typical in English summer.
They've announced a drought just before they announced the floods.
I like the fact that sometimes you get a host pipe ban and a flood warning at the same time.
I always wonder what that's about.
All the water is just in the wrong spot.
I mean, that's just...
And then the host pipe ban is stupid because it's like you can fill your swimming pool up,
but you don't want to water your lawn.
I just had to work that out in my head.
What the heck is a host pipe?
And I'm working on it and working on it.
I got it.
They just don't want you to add into the problem, Dan.
Maybe.
I did hear someone say to me once, because it's the wrong type of water.
There's only one type of water.
Well, technically, they're a terrier and avian.
You can have heavy water as well.
It's 8 to 8.
Well, maybe.
If you're watering your garden with that, I suppose you probably did something wrong.
It actually makes no dumb difference.
It's all water has a small amount of heavy water in it.
It makes no...
It's not...
Anyway, enough science for the day.
It's hard water and soft water, Dan.
And I want you pumping that out with the water, softener.
Maybe.
I hate to pull the conversation away from water, the weather,
and I've already talked about before.
Oh, movies.
But...
You've been away for New Year's, dude.
I just wanted to say real quick, because Cobra was announcing that CC tracker.
If you go check it out, you know, not just for podcasts.
There is an ability to create an RSS feed out of torrents,
so you can do some podcasting.
But there's also, you know, I added three torrents.
I added two torrents, and Stuzz added Stoos added one.
So there's three albums up there.
Stoos is from Australia.
He has kind of a hard rock album up there.
Some really great music, but also some more funky stuff.
Lee Dyer, who goes musically as Newman,
has that album up there of electronic music.
And then Mike Holstein, the former co-host of open source musician,
podcast has a jazz upright bass album on there that's fantastic.
So I just wanted, because that was announced before the HPR get that all in there.
Ten seconds.
Okay, go do an account, then.
Happy New Year, too.
United Kingdom.
Yay!
Porto, New Year.
Porto Islands.
Regents of Spain.
Iceland.
Ivory Coast.
Marley Togo.
Senegal.
Gambia.
Ferro Islands.
Guinea Basel.
I love man.
I love white.
Regents of Greenland.
St. Helena.
Maratina.
Guinea.
Western Sahara.
Ghana.
Burkina Faso.
Sierra Leone.
And Liberia.
Happy New Year, everyone.
And so I happened to win that very much.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
It's between Great Britain and Happy New Year to poppy.
Oh.
Yeah.
He's in the ISC.
You won't come in here, though.
And Happy Birthday to my doggy Jerry, who's one year old now.
And is that someone happy?
Are you somebody a big band?
Who's that black girl?
You've either got your television on very loud.
No, I see.
I was going to say you're somewhere outside Big Ben.
Nice.
I must say that that sums up New Year's for me hearing Big Ben.
Then you could go to bed.
Poppy said he's going to pop in in a minute.
He's getting Mike.
Yeah, also.
Oh, yeah, sure.
Also, happy anniversary to door to door geek.
That's why he's not here, actually.
The poppy anniversary would be.
He's going to defend Ubuntu.
From what?
From all over Europe and their year-old.
Yeah.
I feel bad, yeah.
It seems like they're always defending.
All right.
Back to Pythman and his torrent tracking.
Sorry, Pythman.
We had to cut you off.
Oh, no worries.
I need to add that there's another guy on there.
ZTH music.
He hasn't put up a torrent yet, but he did join and he was trying to get some information out of me
as how to create a torrent to put up his stuff.
Oh, cool.
I just wanted to also add that all three of those albums are completely recorded in Linux.
Excellent.
And what does this?
It's pretty dang cool.
His was all done in that February thing where they did a whole album in February,
which was pretty crazy.
It's called the RPM challenge.
Are you also seeding the...
Damn, now I got it.
The media sprint number two?
Not yet.
Oh, it's a fair point.
Or media marathon, I think it should be called.
No, I actually pulled that down this morning.
I haven't uploaded it yet because I honestly don't know how to get it up there.
I don't know what to categorize it as.
Just...
I haven't created that yet.
I think it probably brought it up at the wrong time because it sounds like Clot 2 is not in front of his computer just now.
I am, I just was not listening.
I was trying to segue into the great media marathon.
Wait, you're trying to segue off of my torrent shut into that?
No, no, no.
I was asking if you were seeding it because it ought to be up on there.
Yeah, yeah.
Actually, I did ask Clot 2 if I could put it up there and he said he had no interest.
No, actually, at the time I asked, it wasn't ready to host torrents or something.
He was still working on it.
So it'll go up there soon.
Hey guys, I'm going to get off now.
I'm going to get some kit popping.
It's been nice chatting to you.
Happy new year.
Happy new year.
Happy new year.
Happy new year, buddy.
I'm the same here.
I'm going to at all if that's okay with everything.
You've got my number.
No, you have to stay here.
No, it's okay.
My husband's going to bed.
I better join him.
Good night, everyone.
Happy new year to you all.
No, it's happy new year.
Happy new year.
Happy new year.
Good night.
Everyone else who's going.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
Hacker Public Radio does our.
We are a community podcast network.
The release is shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are proudly sponsored by Linner Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinnerPages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a like, lead us our lives.
