Episode: 1781
Title: HPR1781: HPR Community News for May 2015
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1781/hpr1781.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 09:16:07

---

This is HBR episode 1,781 entitled HBR Community News for May 2015 and is part of the series
HBR Community News. It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 67 minutes long. The summer is
main and can waffle on and on.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Fallon. You're listening to another exciting
episode of HBR15 Community News for May 2015. Joining me tonight are, hello, this is Dave
and Dave and Dave. Actually, I should rename this to John Colpe, Dave Morris Community News.
I don't know, I think John should be here earlier, rather than me.
Yeah, it's true, it's true. I mean, welcoming our new hosts, which I'll do this month for no
reason whatsoever, other than if we're welcoming Alpha32. Amazing editing managed to work that up.
Anyway, for those of you joining HBR is a community podcast. What that means is
the shows are submitted. The whole thing is contributed by and for members of the community.
So everybody that listens to the shows are an equal member of the community. We would expect
you to record some shows from time to time, and this is not a joke. We do actually expect you
to record shows. It's not that difficult. It can be just as simple as my name is Blah. This is my
story. I cannot think of a show to record. Thank you very much. This gets me off the hook for the
year. And after hearing your story, we will no doubt be able to ask you for 20 or 30 different
show topics. As John Colpe and Dave Morris are more than used to getting suggestions from me
or stuff to record, correct or not Dave? That's that's very true. Yeah, yeah, to my cast, I can say
that's true. So anyways, community news. What is this? It's the community news. It is a show where we
talk about the stuff that's been going on behind the scenes. Behind the scenes is actually
completely in front of the scenes, to be honest, because it's the behind the scenes are what's
the shows that have been played, which are obviously on the RSS feed, mailing these discussions,
which is open to anyone, and the comments for the episodes, which are on the website,
which are also open to anybody. Any other stuff that goes on, which you know, just posting
shows and that sort of stuff we don't bore you with. And if it comes to a point where we're having
problems with it, it goes on to the mailing list. And this month there has been something on the
mailing list about Gmail, not accepting stuff from us. So if you're subscribed via Gmail, you need
to go in and make sure Hacker Public Radio is in your list of nice shows. It's been put into your
spam. So if you haven't heard from the mailing list for a while or you've had trouble uploading
shows, make sure a whitelist Hacker Public Radio, thank you very much.
Okay, shall we do the shows for the month? Let's do that thing.
Okay, 1760. I was in the gym while I was listening to this one. It was the PDF TK by John Colp.
Well, this is an amazing thing, isn't it? What did you make of this? I was with everything with
this guy who is trying to take over the network. The only way we can stop him is by you sending
in shills is to get amazed with this. I have used this toolkit to take out to extract some
files and to push some PDF stuff together, but the concept that you will be able to put a
bookmark, make your own index is absolutely brilliant. Yeah, that's a bit that I thought was
the most impressive. I've tinkered at this thing before, but I don't really have a need for it,
but the bookmark thing I can definitely see a need for, and I thought that was pretty smart.
It's very, very handy. I've got, I keep my wife's recipes and just scan them all into a document
and then put them together and boom, you've got yourself a book, awesome stuff, awesome stuff.
Great idea. Yeah, so the following day was community news followed closely by the HPR audiobook
club, which was Revolution Radio by Seth Kenlon, who we all now know is Latu. Yep, he's now revealed.
I think I think a lot of people do that already, didn't they? His true identity has been
revealed to us. A few things about this was it took a while to post, or at least to go while to
get up. So a lot of a lot of water has gone onto the bridge with this, and I thought it was a,
it took me a while to get into the story, I must say, but then, then it was like all my podcast
listening got just, well, it first started, it took me a while to download it because of the
album art in the Og file, which is still up there. Basically, it doesn't play in my Sansa clip,
so once I figured that out, I had it downloaded a few times. First time they tarfled with an extract,
then when the digs come down, the Og file doesn't play because of the embedded audio,
and then finally I started hearing this, and it was a nice, a nice book, and I really
curse the time zones that I can't participate in this myself. Yeah, it's a really difficult time,
isn't it for us on this side of the Atlantic? Yeah, but to get back, we put this on,
it was a really awkward time for the US people. Yeah, yeah, it cuts both ways, I know.
The following day we had 1763 introduction to home brewing. This was the first time
sure by Alfa 32, and I was actually dreading getting this because I don't need another hobby,
and I very much like to get into home brewing, so there you go. Yeah, I wasn't dreading it,
but I was fascinated here, I was looking forward to hearing it, and because it is something I've
been saying I want to do, and I haven't gotten around to it yet. It's another stick I'm beaten
myself with for not having achieved the goal I'd set myself, but yeah, it sounds pretty easy.
I used to do wine making, you know, fruit-based wines and stuff when I was younger,
and I've always thought getting into beer would be great, but looking forward to your shells on that
topic. Oh no, what have I done? Adios, yeah. But actually, I think when I was looking into it
a few years ago, most difficult thing was getting the valves and everything right, and that it doesn't
explode, but there seemed to have lots of valves and little helping things now that will prevent a
lot of the dangers from days of yours. Yeah, I think when you're doing the first fermentation
it's similar to wine, because basically you just want to keep stuff out of it bacteria, and
the fruit flies go for it, they call them vinegar flies in the brewing world, because they carry
bacteria that will turn your alcohol into vinegar. And if they get in there, your brew is ruined.
So you just have a trap that prevents that sort of stuff getting in, but when it gets to the
the later phases where you're actually trying to pressurize, then I'm all at sea there. I don't
know exactly how to do that, so that's where I want to do some further investigations, but
and that's where I think you need some more specialized kit. This is, yeah, hopefully there
will be more episodes coming on this, and as with the bread, there's something that I do plan to
take up. Okay, the following day we had Rogue Class Linux, a special LLC distribution for Linux
and playing old games, did not know about this Frank, did not know about this, thank you very much,
and it looks absolutely excellent. Yeah, Frank's always got some surprises for us, I find he's always
coming up with some really interesting things. I like this one, this is, this is tempting to
get into. Yeah, and then we use kind of a saying that you should kind of run out of the M, and just
run us from the VN for excellence. Is it the exact sort of thing that I'm looking for for the kids?
You know, nothing too hectic, termless games and you know, nice simple games.
Let me go. Libra office, outlining, and blank presentations. I liked, I liked what Hoku was saying
here actually, because he was, he was effectively saying, don't fiddle about with the details to
start with, but just get in there and, and put your material down, because how many of us have
done that thing off, making the thing look pretty first, and then worrying about what we're going
to say, what we're actually going to put in the presentation. I, I've been, I've been preaching this
for ages, you know, when people say, oh yeah, I want a new website, can you do design a website
for me? And I go, yeah, here's a, here's a new four sheet, oh yeah, you want me to draw that?
No, no, no, I want you to write down exactly each of the pages that you want, and you know,
this is, this is page number one, there's a page number two, and yeah, that's actually, you know,
gets, gets people thinking and gets the websites up a lot faster. It's, yeah, I know, I've fallen
into the trap, but the Hoku was warning about, although back in the day when I first started doing
presentation, it was all the time on a typewriter on an, on an acetate, you know, so, so that's all we
had in those days, you know, we lived in cardboard boxes and all that stuff, yeah, yeah,
I know, you had to chisel, you were lucky, you had typewriter's in my day, we had stone tablets
that we had to do out of the quarry ourselves. Out of literally. Oh, following day, 1766,
sucks of silence, was myself kind of a lot of comments, not a lot of comments in the feedback,
but I got a lot more feedback than normal about this, people seem to be surprised at the speed
of which I claim my script, my podcast. Yes, I don't think my brain doesn't work that fast,
any more, so it's a bit fast for me, but I, I am using, I am using that. I was using FFN
peg before and I found it was a little bit weird, whereas socks does a better job actually.
I do this, I do all my podcasts to this speed, and then when I'm playing them in work, I will speed up
this, the podcasts, even more with the left and right square brackets in FFN or in M player,
M player actually, so when I'm playing them out, or on my Sansa tape, I've got a speed up button
for putt, this is the, this is the fastest I will go for the, for the lowest, for all the podcasts
that I do this to. Yeah, it's, it's, it's really useful, it's very useful. I, yeah, I'm just not sure
what number I'm going to feed into it for the, for the speed myself, but I'm going to have to work
on that one to get it perfected. Yeah, you start off, I start it off, but just one that too and just
work my way up, you know, sometimes you think, you find yourself speeding up every podcast,
then, and then just work your way up, as, but I know we're near, and it's something like Jonathan
Nadu, I can just barely make out his stuff when he's, he's doing it so I have a ways to go yet.
It is practice after all, I think, isn't it? I say I can't do it, but I'm sure I couldn't
for practice enough. Yeah, and it's, but this actually was about the truncate silence feature,
which is a filter we use quite a lot in audacity for these shows, and, and this is just something
I wanted to add to my toolchain for Biscuit TL out of TS so that I could move the, the on-edited
silences from there. That's, that's very good. I actually ran it on one of mine, and which I had
used silence truncation through audacity on, and it, it did take a little bit off, very, very little,
so I think that proved something that I'd done a reasonable job when I first made it, and that's
all it told me. Yeah. Okay, the following day was David Whitman, interviews Ed Cable from the
MIFOS Initiative at Linux Fest in Northwest, and I've just processed another one of his shows as well.
Yeah, I, I, I, I just checking my notes and I said to myself, listen to this again before you
talk about it, because I didn't, it, it, it needs, needs more of a more than one listen. I found
the way. Yeah, it's, it's basically the, the, what they're doing is, you know, the whole concept of
micro payments where you, you give law, rather than given it to large institutions, you learn to
small, to small institutions, to, to small businesses in developing nations or in nations that
need the help, and this is a, a solution that you can use to build your applications, to support
that, very interesting, very interesting one. Okay, an introduction to C, episode one, introduction
and types. This was great. I thought this was a good, really good, it wasn't his first, was it,
we, we discovered he'd already done a show under a different handle, but it, I thought it was
a great, great introduction to C, and I love these notes too, the notes are brilliant. Fantastic,
yeah, they were done in, or mark up, mark down, mark down, yeah, that's pretty good like it, but
something you was thinking about this is in 32 bits, isn't an int going from zero to, no, an int,
not an int along short, or car, a car is using the full 64 K though, isn't it? No, that's an
8-bit entity always, because I think it's, historically, came from being a, a character, an
ASCII character, yeah, or an EBSIDIC character, even, so it's traditionally been 8, 8 bits,
doesn't make much sense in the days of Unicode, of course, but that's what it still is. I think
hope there's going to be more of this, all is interested in hearing about C, actually, it's a
program in language, I assume they should know. Yeah, I've written maybe two programs in C,
in my entire career, and managed a few more than that, but I've never really had any great
need to use it, but I'm tempted to get back into a bit more, now just to see what things I could
actually write in it that would be really efficient. I've seen people use it recently for
somewhere doing all this stuff, it's kind of useful for that. Yeah, yeah, that's a great place to
do it. Yeah, exactly, but I think, for me, it's too much like coding without a safety measure.
I've got that, to be honest, I, in my early programming career, I was an assembler programmer,
but, yeah, yeah, I wasn't a very good one, but that's what we have to do, and my brain was
was a tune to doing things that way, but I've lost the, the knack now, so it's always getting
into, back into C again, would be, would wake up some of that stuff again. Cool, no doubt you will
record shows as you go, see what they did there. I've done it again. I've done it again. He's a sucker.
Yeah, yeah, I'm just a, just a soft target, that's me. The following day, we had John Culp,
the rayon of John Culp, the return of John Culp, John Culp too, with a demonstration
of dictation software on my office computer. And this, this one actually was hard to listen to.
I really had to, well, not hard to listen to, but my brain had to flick into, what the hell is he
doing more? You know, thankfully he had an explanation at the beginning of what he was doing.
No, it's a great idea, great idea. I just came to the conclusion that, I don't think I could do
that. I would need to plan out what I was going to say in a quite low detail. And I might as well
have written it down by the time I was, with the way I was thinking, but all power to John for,
for doing stuff that way. But I guess it is, again, what you're used to doing, you know,
your liquid speed up thing, you would get used to doing this. And you could also pause and do
the truncated silence trick that he was talking about before you feed it. Yeah, that's true.
What was a bit sad is the fact that there's no good, there's no solution on Linux at all.
Yeah, that, that, it is sad, isn't it? That's what somebody was asking in the comments about that.
And it really highlights the, the deficiency there. John Kilp 3, the following day, Episode 1770,
this time it's personal, so much personal that it's accessibility about the open dyslexic font.
Very good, very good information. And I think we have, I have plans to put it on to the
interviewer website that if you click the dyslexic font, not link at the top, the menu that it would
turn into the dyslexic font, but I haven't been able to get around to do that yet.
Yeah, it would be good to have, I think. But yeah, I was impressed with what John was saying. I love
that. How he prints out special exam papers for students with dyslexia. That's, that's amazing.
I might show my, my old university would have done that, I think, quite like that.
No, and when I think of all the stuff he's doing for his students to try to keep the
course down and whatever, and the fact that you can tell from his shows that he absolutely knows
what he's doing, and that his teaching style is very comfortable, very, you can't
help learning stuff from the guy here. And I think Oki, Oki, all refer to it as reading a
form book and you get to be able to get some information from it. But yeah, it's, my wife has
done some research into this and there's no evidence to say it does or doesn't help this font,
but if, like, there's not enough studies been done enough, but as he says himself on the episode,
if people, if it works for you good and well, if it doesn't, you know, fair enough,
but if it works for you and if it's, you know, psychosomatic or whatever, who cares, you know,
if it, if you think it's helping you, then it's helping you. Yeah, yeah, fair enough.
Jungle 3 comes back from the dead with audacity label tracks. You know what's annoying,
that somebody can put the shows back to back one after the other, right? And come out with interesting
shows from completely different topics, with loads, nuggets of information and every one of them,
but you just want to hear the guy, but you can't. No, I know, I know. This is great. Yeah, I had not,
it was there in front of us all. I think anybody using audacity could have seen this. I probably
did see it, but never bothered to go and find out what it was. So yeah, I started using it since
hearing this and I found it a very useful thing. I was trying to think of a use case for it,
and it's one of those shows that I've had quite a lot of before where I think, okay,
that's interesting. I need to file that under. I heard that somewhere. I heard that on HPR,
put it down to jungle because there will be a time when I need to do this and split it up into
different, uh, split issue based on track name. It will be absolutely awesome to do like a, uh,
oh, I remember what I was thinking. Yes, converting, um, cassette tapes, mixed tapes that I met,
but when I was a kid, I have like one of my, yeah, if I ever get around to doing the, doing the
things is where I would convert those to audio, um, those to actual, uh, digitize them. And then
you could go into the audacity track, find the, find the song break, type in the, what the song is,
and then just go file export based on track labels, right? There is a use case. I found it useful when
I was, uh, editing a show that, um, uh, as I was recording the show, there was much banging and, uh,
and rattling at the front door as the Amazon man was, was delivering something. And, uh, so I,
I paused the recording. And when I, I, I, I, I, I then went and hunted for that bit when I was
editing it, uh, the market to, uh, to, to cut it out, you know, um, I know I could have just cut it
out, but I found it was useful just to have it marked and, and do other stuff with it because I,
I'm always getting distracted. So it's useful to, to know, so where the hell was that thing, you know,
and similarly if you're processing through a show, then I, I just mark how far I've got to before
I, uh, stopped to, to do something else, you know, so the Almanair removal type thing. Yeah,
if I'm got working through doing some Almanair removal and sometimes I'd ramble and, uh,
and then I think, ah, that was rubbish. I'll cut that out. And, uh, so it, it's useful to, to,
to be able to label it, cut this cut here or something. Um, it's, yeah, it's, I think there's quite a
lot of applications. The following day we had in a break from John Colp, we had Swift, uh, 110,
who took a walk to a park. I thought this was a rather refreshing episode. Nothing, that sounds
terrible now, John, but pulling your leg with no, it was a really, uh, because I was walking outside,
getting the bus and just had a look, you know, look around at nature and the plants and stuff that
were in the park and, yeah, cool, nice show. Yeah, I, I, I, I love these, I've said before I like
anything with ambient sands in it because it sounds like much more like real life, some bird song
with wind noise and that sort of thing. It sounds real, and I like it. Oh, very good.
John Whitman with a interview, uh, Debora Nicholson from the Open Invention Network,
very, very good show. And this is the one where they, um, have the patent pools and stuff, um,
to, uh, protect various different, you know, to protect Linux and users of Linux from, uh,
patent trolls or cross patent, cross patent, but it doesn't actually work so well against patent
trolls as pointed out on freeism freedom, but US one pound of time. Yeah, I think, yeah, I enjoyed
this. David's a great interviewer, actually, he's really good at doing this. I didn't also know
that she was involved in the Media Goblin project, which was interesting. Yes, I, I found that
interesting. I don't know a huge lot about it, but it's another, another bookmark to go and
search more about. So the next day we had routing hacking by John Culp. Yes, you guessed it.
And again, I thought, yeah, this is, this isn't going to be one that I'm that interested in,
but it was, I've done this a few times, but it was, uh, quite interesting. The 30, 30, 30, 30
ruler was of the 2020, 20, 20, we were 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 20, uh, portalizer. We put out from
the farm to which information I know. He lost me that can. That's fine. There's loads of people
from Ireland going, oh, we all right. Oh, what's your other one? Anyway, yes. How to flash a
router? Always cool. Definitely should be. We've never done it. What I want to know is where in,
in my country, can I go and get a pretty smart router for, for $3.99, though. Yeah, that's my problem.
The thing is these links, this is that they've brought out. They, indeed, of your, it completely
goes against the Moore's Law thing. The newer ones, they've got less RAM, they've got less memory,
they've got less processor. I don't know about processors, but they're more expensive. So you have
to be absolutely 100% sure that you're reading the serial number because sometimes it's like 1, 2,
3, 4, A and 1, 2, 3, 4, B anything. Hey, the B1 will be better. Whereas actually you want the A1
because it's got twice the RAM and more capabilities. Yeah, I know. I know. It's, it's a very thorny issue.
Any of that sort of stuff. You're really going to be quite careful what you've, what you've got.
I do have a little side project that one day might turn into an HPR episode, which is one of
these little teeny tiny routers, smaller than a Raspberry Pi one. I've forgotten what it's model
number. It's a TP link thing and you can get, I think it might be DDWRT on it. So far, I think I've
bricked it, but maybe the unbricking will make a show. I don't know. Yeah, if you have, or,
or the bricking actually because there's, you know, sometimes sooner or later you're going to
brick something. So I'm looking for a sort of Raspberry Pi type size and cost, obviously,
with two Ethernet interfaces, preferably gigabit Ethernet interfaces, two actors are fireball,
that's what I'd look. Yeah, I know. Are there not any add-on cards for a Raspberry Pi that would
let you do that? Yeah, but it's the whole, the pie's networking stack is pretty pathetic,
actually. Everything goes over the USB port. You're right. Yeah, you've got that. But you need
something like a vehicle bone or something like that with extra ports on it. Yeah, something
a little bit of them. Anyway, Steve Bickle had 1775 Sonic Pi and this, this, I had no clue. You
mentioned this before and he came back and did an episode on it, and I'm so glad he did because
it seems like such a cool thing. Unfortunately, as I mentioned to him, I don't know in the comments,
but it's unfortunate. It's not available just as a straight app getter or human store.
Yeah, it's status is a little bit weird, isn't it? I'm not, it's precisely sure
what it's available for. I think it runs on max or something, does it, as well?
But yeah, and the Raspberry Pi, which is, and you can't compile it because it's, you can't run
it because it's compiled for the arm, so you have to cross compile or you have to, I don't know
even know if the code is available presumably. It was cool. Just say the HBR song.
Come on then. That's awesome. I really want to get around to doing this. It's really good. I
was so glad that Steve had mentioned this before and expanded on it here. Really good.
So the following day, we had Vimhins 04 and I have been saving this on Octave because every time
we came up with the queue, I was, I needed a stretch where I could have the show notes in front of
me to be able to follow along. And the show notes are excellent. Absolutely excellent. Well done
on this series. Thank you. The show notes take me all the time. So it's why the rate of releases
slow down because I'm sitting there writing show notes that I'm being absolutely 100% certain
that I'm right and not telling you a lot of nonsense. Take some time to do. I'm afraid. Yeah,
it's this sort of episode is really, you know, people don't realize them on the work that
the series takes. So the fun thing about it, fun thing about doing this sort of thing.
And it's always been whenever you have to teach somebody a thing,
exactly, exactly, a huge lot myself. But when you have to do my goodness, you have to
and it is well yourself. And it's a really, really good incentive to do it. And I really enjoy that.
It is, yeah, but you're covering everything. It's like the Linux and the Shell series,
but Dan absolutely brilliant. Everything covered. Nothing more than reading the ManPage. And indeed,
this is nothing more than reading the ManPages either, but and a hookah's open office,
a liberal office series, exactly the same thing. You guys are doing nothing more than reading
the ManPages, but describing this and giving us an example. So absolutely awesome. Thank you very
much. Keep it coming. Sure. Well, I think I insulted you there by saying it's nothing more than
reading the ManPages. Not really, because you're right. But we're filtering it through
and a human opinion, you know, I found Dan's things really useful because he highlighted things
that I might well have skimmed over just scanning through the ManPage and saying, yeah, yeah, yeah,
I'm not interested, not interested. But he'd actually delved a little bit deeper and said, look,
this is interesting. And that's the key thing, isn't it? Somebody else feeding you that
information through the filter of their own brains is a valuable thing. Yeah. And it's like,
you might think the first time I read this, I thought it was going to do this, but what it actually
does is this or I was doing this, you know, I was doing this use case and then I needed a way to
undo like the highlighting turn off the highlighting thing. When you do a search day,
I search for E one day in the text document. And for multiple week one, for one, say exaggerate,
for say, poor ages, every time I open this document, the E got highlighted and I was just so low.
So good for them and remembering, I mean, you should you should upload it. But yeah, I know,
I've fallen down that one as well. How the hell do you turn this off? But yeah, so yeah,
I'll be showing you a way to configure a key to do it in due course.
And this this one links in the shell and the hooker thing, I really think we should,
you know, have have DVDs available of these with the show notes on it. Now here is Libra Office,
here is how do you use the I instructional instructional videos? Yeah, yeah. Well, John Cubs
been saying to me, why don't you produce all the turn all the notes into E pub and then stick them
all together into into one giant E pub. And I think he's right. It's going to take a bit of work
to get it looking good, but but it sounds like a worthwhile thing to do. If somebody could start
working on the cover art for this book, you could actually put you could actually sell that as a
book date. Yeah, I know. I've done this sort of thing before. I've written what effectively were
books that they could have been marketed and never never bothered. So, so, release some CC and
sell publishing. Do it. Yeah, yeah, I would be quite an interesting voice. I could do an HPR and
it couldn't I can. You could worry what? See what I'm doing here for now. After a while,
this starts suggesting them themselves. I've been there for a long time. Yes, suckers.
Anyway, Andrew and Dave, magnitudes. This is another one that I had to download separately, Dave,
because Tom Kade's silence and speeding it up didn't actually work.
I'm sorry. Now we're going to have people put in music into their shows. So, I have to download
and listen to them as a normal speed bot. That said, I was listening to this coming out of
just coming through Amsterdam through the rail yards and stuff where you have very industrialized
stylized Dutch-ordered landscapes and industrial landscapes and the music just
fitted each of the songs. It seems like each of the songs that are coming out just suited the
area that I was going through. It was like, you know, a pot, a camera there and you have like a
channel for film, you know, late night at two o'clock in the morning, you know. That's a great idea.
Yes, I know. I'm glad. Yeah, that's good. It's nice to have some sort of background of sounds
or whether it's good. Yeah, I'd enjoyed it. Yeah, I actually had to upgrade my earphones to
proper set of headsets while I was listening. By the way, that's that big earphone thing.
You know what I think that is? Is the photograph I'm talking about? I've turned on the war. They
used to position doors on beaches along the coast to listen for incoming Europeans. They did.
Yes, I actually found out a bit more. I did. There's a reference I've put in the notes there.
It's pointing to a museum where they talk a bit about this. In fact, that's just half of the
apparatus. There's another one. The guy sits behind on an equivalent device which points
up and down or something. I can't remember now. And it explains quite a lot about what it does.
You should definitely follow that link to the Netherlands Museum. So you should check it out
because there's some amazing pictures in there. I think we're actually due to go to that this
this summer. Well, well, that needs an HPR episode. I think that can. Well, there you go. How
Holland works and the windmill and the flying fiber optic cables, two other ones that have recorded
what happened. You see, again, people waffling on about editing shows that you shouldn't be editing
shows. You shouldn't take so long about it. When you point a finger at somebody dead, there are
three fingers pointing back at you. Yes, sorry everybody. I'll get my finger out and do that someday.
But I wasn't expecting this music from you to be honest. Oh, right. Yeah, this is sort of stuff I
listened to. I was amazed to find that Andrew is very, very similar taste as well. That was
that was a big surprise. I thought I had weird tastes, but it seems like there's more of us.
I wouldn't have I wouldn't have picked a lot of them. I think it was the only one I didn't
particularly like. And I didn't particularly like it because music for television's volume two.
And I didn't like it because it was predictable. The one before that died volume one. I also found
predictable, but in a way that I enjoyed. I don't know. It was really weird thinking about that.
Yeah, I think I chose Callabi with the organoid track is when the television's thing.
But because I liked the album, I thought it was possible. But also because it just had the sort of
right sort of chill to it that sometimes it's quite relaxing when you're doing something else,
you know. Maybe that's not a thing to present to somebody else. He's the boring stuff I like
to listen to when I'm thinking of other things. It's maybe not always a good thing to share,
but I think that's maybe why I chose it. Yeah, but this is the audience that you're talking to,
like I think a lot of people here are getting to coding sessions where you just want to drown out
the world, but you don't want to be listening to music. Yeah, ambient music. You don't want to be
listening to whatever classical music. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, anyway, we'll see. We'll
hopefully it went down well with people in general. But he can't buy an album though. I still think
that's a pity. I can't buy the albums anymore. Yeah, I guess it just turned out to be
not a very good business model for them. But that have many thinking about the whole concepts
of subscriptions. And I do like the lifetime subscription, which is 250 years or something like that.
But with all these subscriptions like, I don't know, you know, you got your Netflix for 14 years,
you got your, um, what's the other one with the, um, with all the songs. Can't think of it. Yeah,
can't think of it, but you're selling it with lots of things now. Google next sound cloud or something,
is it? Any thinking Spotify? That's the one. Oh, right, right, right. Yeah. So with Spotify or whatever,
you've got, you know, it kind of mounts up all these subscription services. I think myself.
There you go. And if you don't pay, then you don't have the music. At least with this, you pay
your lifetime subscription and you got us here. You have a very time to do that. All of it too.
And there's quite a lot. Okay. Um, Netax and VI cursor keys. Very useful, I thought I added this
to the Vimhins series. Yes, I was pleased to see that. Um, certainly didn't want Vimhins to be
monopolized by me and happy to see, you know, anybody else doing stuff under the same heading.
This is what we want to see more of on, on HPR I think. And I do seem to remember seeing
keyboards with those arrows on the HJK and L keys at one stage way back. I felt a complete idiot.
I felt a real fool when I saw this because I must have used this sort of keyboard for quite some
time back in the day. And I really forgot now. And a very nice, I'm, I must actually dig out that
game. It sounds interesting. And I really like the idea of his, his idea of having the Vimh that
boots up does something in shuts down. Awesome. Need that for something completely different. So I
will be using that for something completely different. Great idea. Great idea. When in my time
working on mainframes, we all used to play zork and those sorts of things, you know, the dungeons
things. You're in a room with doors here there and ever, you know, twisty passages with
whatever. I can't remember that. I never, never got into them. I was never really good. You,
you type, where am I? You're in the room. Okay, move forward. You've been eaten by a
shit, fallen down a cliff there. Okay, that's not very good to those games. There was, there was
a bunch of us in a shared office that used to play this, you know, so be a fight for who,
who got shot next and avoided the management coming along to see if we were working hard. I always
felt guilty going into a game because I've ever went into a game like that. I'm gone. I'm in
the, I'm in the world and you won't get me off for a love of a month. Thing is though, we,
we were hackers and we had the Fortran source. So somebody, somebody was, was reading the damn
source and working that way to go and stuff in there. Very good, very good. Okay, Jungkook again,
this time with Kaose and Piglet. Very, very awesome. Just, I, I just can't comment on this
episode really. It's so funny. Yeah, it's, it's, it's great. Yeah, we need, we need more stuff like this.
It's just completely, and you know, it's, it's completely, everybody who uses a unique system
needs this because you got, you know, you've got to do that. Log in screen, you know, you've logged
into whatever server with those, with those ASCII characters. Yeah, it's, it's great. I quite
like Piglet actually. It reminds me of other things that I've seen in the past. In fact, I,
I've bunged it into one or two scripts that I run regularly just to, you know, shout things at me
and stuff and, and Piglet's a nice way of doing it. Why does that not surprise me to?
Yeah. It says because I'm a bit feeble minded and stuff, you know, but I can just imagine reading
John's notes, you know, chapter one, some very serious topic of a Mozart, and then you've got a
dragon saying chapter two. Yes, I like that. It would be very much. No, I've been slacking on John's,
he's all week. He is an absolute gentleman. I, I would like to personally thank him for saving
HPR this month because we didn't have any shows and he stepped up to the plate and basically
out in order brought in many, many excellent shows and basically, yes, covered your ass. If you
haven't sent in the show this year, then you should really, really sit down right in the email to
thank John called for sending in the show that you haven't done. So that's all I'll say about that.
Thanks very much, John. Much appreciated. And not only that, he had time to figure out what a guitar
chord was for me and the on a personal side note. Oh, cool. And needless to say, I asked him to do
a show about guitar chords and tabulations and how to do this. Which I'm sure we'll beffered in
due course. In due course? In due course, it's not the first suggestion I've met to him either.
So there you go. Then we had Ahuka with True Crypt and GNUPEG and it was actually nice to get
an update of these two projects. I found this really, really useful. I was expression,
I was off the ball as far as some of these were concerned and it was very helpful to point out
the fact that we've got yet more people, single people sat there in a lonely garret doing stuff
that the whole world depends on. And we should do something about it. Yes, two things sprang to
mind. One was that we need to do something about this. A sort of, you can say that they
big corporations should pay for it and that's all very well, but actually I don't think that's the
open source floss way. It should be something like a free implementation of a flatter where
you know, where you as a citizen contributes, I don't know, however much you can afford annually or
monthly to a central place and they then divvy it up to these developers who get grad funded and
it's all public and whatever. Probably best to talk to, you know, somebody like Sofer and the
public interest or Karen or Bradley about some services like that. But I definitely think that's
something that I would like to do. Give it to give some money to a central place and this is the
value I get out of or this is at least what I can afford to give and get it to be done. Yeah,
yeah. People are using Patreon. Is it these days for as an alternative? Is it to flatter? Yeah,
but I don't know. Is that open source? Does 100% of the thing I don't know. I've not followed
followed it through yet, but no, I find myself going to the sites of people that I particularly
like the products of and every so often just chuck you know a few dollars their way.
And that's not really a very efficient way then because I don't necessarily keep
proper track of what I've done and to whom and when and so forth. Yeah, and we see it here on
HPR as well. You people forget they think, look, gosh, I've contributed and then they'll look at
their when the last time they contributed and it was three years ago, you know, it's and you don't
want to be sending out emails going, no, okay, it's been a year since you contributed. Do you want to
consider contributing now? You know, there's it's it's not a problem. It's it's a problem, but I don't
think it's a problem that can't be solved if people apply, if people come up with a way to,
you know, it's just an implementation issue, actually, I think. Yeah, I'm sure you're right.
And the other thought that struck me was how invalid the arguments in the Cathedral and the
Bazaar are that it's been a while since I've read that. So well, can you expand every many,
well, let's say the the Linus theory with enough eyes, every bogus shallow, which I guess is true,
but a lot of these projects simply don't have enough eyes on us and you know, we're talking about
two pieces of software here that were essentially written by an Armin, been written and maintained
by individual people. That's only two eyes looking at the cold. It's absolutely not enough.
Two quarter, I feel on my like, is about a boy, you know, two is not enough. Yes. So not only should
there be more money going to these projects that should be definitely more people working off.
So what do we do now, Dave? Do you want to do the email, the mailing list discussion next? Yes,
do you have a list you think for that or not? No, you have the comments on the list you think.
The the the show notes for today are on 1781 and there you have a list of all of the
the names of the threads. I can never say this properly. So you can see the however many there are
threads laid out there. That's actually you have no idea how much that saves me. Just hassles knowing
that that's working. So this is all on the mailing list discussion section on the show notes for
today's episode. Yeah. And the first one was a call for shows, which were started by me.
And basically a lot of people were commenting about that. John was saying that he's got a lot
of shows and basically saved our bacon that week. Then we had Mike Ray asking some questions about
new pre-formatted sheets for Libra office and naturally Kevin O'Brien replied to that with
Sissing Tamsu. Lord D has done a video series on using the Zoom H1 and you should give that a
listen actually. If you want to if you're taking I think we have the Zoom H1 shared HPR recording
device. So if you want to have a have a watch of that, which is very important for the press once
to lose your recording press twice to actually record your recording bug with the Zoom stuff.
It's not only the Zoom that does that. My son's task ham works the same way. Out.
Tear, tear, tear. Yeah. Seriously, this is not a joke. That is something to watch out for.
This is a very important issue is we have Gmail marking all HPR hacker public radio.org emails
as spam. So unless you do something about it actively taking it out of the spam folder or
white listing is they will even not see it. You won't see the mailing list. You won't see
your request for shows. There's been some report by you Dave that Josh is going to be looking
to see if there's additional markers that we can we can do to to take it out. But I don't know.
I won't go into it. There was there was also a reference to a website that will
analyze issues on your site which looked like it could be useful as well. Mx2 box. Yeah,
that actually was pretty cool and they explain what they're doing as well. So it's pretty cool.
Don't forget the call for shows. Libro of cell style background, no fill, another micro episode
or request. And I think he solved it himself. That was my impression. Yeah. But if not we'll hear
from from Kevin. And David Whitman was asking for the HPR presentation for cggl.sigl.org show
that he's going to. And I don't know. I did one. But if whoever's done the latest one,
if they want to send it, I can get more information. We have stats.php. So if you go to
hackupubblegradio.org and type in stats.php, which opens a text file giving you when it's
started nine years, seven months, 24 days ago. So our anniversary will be on
2015, the 10th of the 10th. I should actually mark that as a reserved show, which should do
something for that. Shows stuff like the total number of shows, which is 2348. Total HPR shows is
2448 at the moment. That includes shows that are in the queue and in the reserved as well. 23 days
to the next three slots. There are 12 shows, 12 hosts in the queue, 28 shows in the queue. There's one
comment waiting for approval and one file on the ftp server. And then the comments for this month,
Dave, you definitely do have a script somewhere for this. We do have a script. But first of all,
I've got to actually arrange my desk. I printed it on a piece of paper because there's so many
comments, which is wonderful, but I wanted to do them justice. So in the same order as we have them
on the show notes for today, I have made the same script that generates the show notes,
generate me a crib sheet. So I can not sound like a total idiot and not being able to find anything.
I probably still will do, but anyway, I'm going to try my best. So first of all, we had a comment
on show 1726. And this was nightwise show. Excuse us, not to record show for HPR. This is Epicanus,
who was commenting that he should have an award for not having done a show and scored points on all
of the points that nightwise are good together, I think is what you're saying. We forgive him,
I think, but it's nice to hear from him again soon. And we had 1754. It was commented on. This was
John Culp's show D7Y7. And 5150 was making. I had made a comment that it was a
cling on battle cruiser or something. I did not know that being a trekkie. I
apologize. I throw myself at the fee of 5150 and beg forgiveness. 5150 came back with
comment number four in this thread explaining what he was talking about, which is very good. And
giving references there too. So you can go and follow that if you want to. And John came back to say
the ship looks like it has some dissonance in it. So I thought that was very witty on his part.
So I won't read these all out in detail. I think you should go and read them yourself.
Then the next show we had comments on was 1759, which was still Void's
brief review of Firefox OS. And somebody had commented on this and still Void is going back saying
thanks for the feedback. And he's going to do a follow up to this. He thinks at some point.
John Culp's show 1760 about PDFTK had a, almost seen here. Yeah. Oh yes, John himself
followed up with a comment saying there's a YouTube video showing him processing the bookmarks.
These are fascinating. They are absolutely fascinating. Yes, I know. It's the way that you can
select stuff and then feed it to a script using XClip and then process it and then drop it back
in again. It's really, really good. I'm amazed. I'm actually using computers look like what
we all put using computers would be on them a few years ago, you know, those videos. In the
2000s people will be talking to other computers and the computers will be doing things.
Absolutely. Yes. Yes. And oh yeah, you just need the right voiceover and it would be perfect,
it should be in a CPA tone probably as well. Then we had 1762, which was the audio book club
show where an individual called Ken Fallon made a comment. Do you care to explain your comment?
Tyrell, I want to see that work in a person. I want to see a negative before I pause the positive
techer. What's that going to prove? Tyrell, indulge me. This is a riddles throughout
and tattoos work was thousands and thousands of references to different things and that one
was from Blade Runner. I'm just wondering how many other ones I missed or many other ones people
picked up and the references to KDE and BSD and the GPL were obvious throughout but there were
definitely a lot of other ones as well. There you go. Very cool. Yes. So next we had 1766
which was your show Socks of Silence and John Culp says that he was already listening to your
episode at 1.5 times speed and then you speed you did a demo of what 1.8 sounded like so
the two mulliply together was ridiculously fast so I had to slow down and listen to it again
to work out why I don't know what it was. It's just amusing. Somebody emailed, I don't know what's
on the mailing list about, can't remember, sorry. That doesn't ring any bells with me, I'm afraid.
Was it Mike Ray's comment that he was going to do a show speaking very, very, very slowly so that
when you speed it up it would come out at normal speed and then that would completely throw you.
Yeah but if you speak very slowly if the truncated silence would take out all the bits.
Yeah it was actually in the audio club discussion the guys were on about saying that he couldn't
understand my accent. I think it's just because I speak too fast. Okay okay well yeah I can't
comment on that. Just to finish John's comment he says he uses BeyondPod which has a speed
up capability in itself and of course he mentions that Rockbox can do it as well as we know.
I just recently was listening to I tried BLC on my from the F-Troid on my Android and they have
a speed up option and it turns it into chipbox. Why would you do that in this day and age? Why would
you speed it up and then alter the pitch? That's disappointing given that other things have
solved that problem really well but by default also in player will speed it up like a jakemalk
unless you actively go into the settings and change it. Yeah shame. Very much so. Yes.
Karyl 1767 was next this was David Whitman's interview with the Meefoss as it pronounced initiative.
Ed Cable he was speaking to and Mike Ray comments that it was a great interview and the initiative
is a great one as well and he makes some some telling comments. I was going to leave the audience
to go and say. Talk to the bird eggs. I mean it was a I don't necessarily disagree with it.
There you go there's yours political offices. 1768 was next which was the
intro to Ceeb episode one by CGM and Cigflup made the comment right or some high praise indeed
from our release. Yeah absolutely good show she says so what can what else can we say?
Steve Smith says thanks and some more please and he's talking about his his history with C
I think it sounds similar to mine than C years ago got diverged into Pearl and JavaScript and
Python and yeah talking about the the way that data types are and memory allocation that sort of
thing. So yeah so did very some very positive comments there about about that show which is
which is really good. I think the old C series is something people have been waiting for her
long time and realize how much work it's going to be with I don't want to say that out loud.
Yeah quite correct. Yeah I'm looking forward to more it's it is the sort of thing we need on
HPR I think. Next comment comment three was somebody with the name of Keat Keat or something
didn't think there was enough for a host. Yeah no that's the comment four that says
enjoyed the recording but didn't think there was enough C but then there wasn't enough C because
it was about types and and data types and that sort of thing so yeah you have to yeah you have
to start slow I think. Katie Murray says good start thanks for the show it was a good first look
at some C basics I haven't been exposed to since school so more please I think this is a message
there. It's nice to positive positive feedback. Yeah yeah yeah that's that sort of thing. Yeah
exactly also you have no idea how much somebody posts them in your episode or drop a new
email gives you a bit of encouragement it's fantastic just to know someone's listening.
Yeah that's what I was going to say that it's a it's a great thing to see
four comments for supportive comments in a row like that on a on an episode very very nice.
1769 John Culp's show about dictation software.
Moral Volcano asks is dragon naturally speaking open source.
John Culp has to reply. Nope sadly no it's very proprietary and there's no open source
dictation software that I'm aware of so you know it's almost we were saying yeah it's grim it's
grim because I would I have a long running fault where I'd like to run HVR shells through
Translator. Yeah it's it's a thing that you would imagine would be be very much in demand
I'm sure that that is it's like the screen reader situation I guess in many respects isn't it?
You know we know how bad that is as well. Well how bad about how little resources are applied to
well quite quite yeah so pressing on 1770 the open dyslexic font from John again
Jezre came back to say that the arch Linux the the font is available from the arch user repository
and he gives a link to that so that's that that's very useful. We should um some of those links
Steve if you come across them and that when you're doing the comments you can add them to
the as click of the links to the show notes at the end. Yeah that's getting you more work to do
or anything but that's what I would normally have done. That's a good idea actually yes I haven't
quite thought of that I do go through the shows before they go up to archive.org and check that
things are okay and you know and and that would be a good point at which to to do that I've already
done it today so so but yeah a good point actually that would be a useful thing to do and for everybody
listening to point out how much work Dave is now doing on HPR doing all the comments all the uploads
to the archive.org and a lot of the simers you're checking up stuff that I'm doing in the background
it's it's because I'm a compulsive tidy yeah if you this is did my house you'd know that you know
it's amazingly tidy but oh sorry I take a bun to do that. It's a complete lie of course with
there you go yeah the cat just walked across my my script here as I was saying that so you can
tell how well organized is that the cat can do that. Anyway too much of an insight there perhaps
audacity label tracks episode was the next one which was 1771 and some geese I call Dave
Morris said this was very useful and commented that he hadn't noticed this feature and had to
recently stick various bits of audio together in a in a show which was the the the magnetine one
and labeling them along the way was was rather helpful because knowing what they are you get a hint
from them if you look at the left hand end of each track but since they're all you know
following one after the other in time order it's quite hard to know what they are so putting
a label on prove to be an extraordinarily useful thing to do. Oh that's quite cool. What
does the way to auto label them in any way based on file numbers and that would be good yeah I
found that if you double click the track piece the piece of track and then was it I can't
remember what the control key sequence was to get the label to pop up and it just labeled the entire
track and offered you a dialogue to put the label takes it into and so it's really quick to do
and yeah I was really really cool. Can you use that a lot? Excellent. Then Katie Murray commented
on the same show saying I can't believe I've never seen this which is it's just the point we
were making earlier I think that it's it's it's another case of somebody else seeing a thing
that you missed and and this is why sharing this sort of stuff is so useful. And also why you know
you think when you're sitting down and you want to do an episode and then yeah surely everybody knows
this it's this is so obvious but when you do it it's like quite a lot of people will be going yeah
yeah I knew that but a lot of other people will be going oh my god how did I miss that for some
of the years? Absolutely yeah yeah this is this is the great thing about sharing this this type of
stuff so show 1774 the Ruta Hacking show from John Colp Ken Fallon commented you say tomato and
and John did actually say tomato I think he started off saying tomato but he moved on to tomato
which I reminded to make sure I'm sure you did I had to download it in real time with a list
said tomato he's a spy it proves he's an undercover appreciation as you say yeah he's
covers the blood and yeah number two comment on this one was from Mark who said I wanted to try this
before and that John's lead here was useful and he's got a Ruta that he wants to he's bought
the garage sale he wants to have a go at doing this type of thing to running a printer off it as
well because it's not always obvious that you can you can do that if you have a USB capability on
on a on a Ruta some of some of the more modern ones come with factory software that let you do it
but I guess some of the other ones which just had the ability to plug in the USB key didn't run
printer software but with with these open source packages then it seems to be pretty common
that it's available and why not you know just be cups installed on the thing presumably yeah and
you you just do a pass through and suddenly it becomes very very well two reasons the printers with
network capabilities tend to be more expensive annually and secondly even the ones that have
network capabilities you're not 100% sure what they're going out to do and guess so if you've
got an old Ruta there it might be no harm just to run through that so that you can you can apply
your own firewalls on it so that's you know there's no USB chat a USB chat's not gonna get anywhere
and the printer's not gonna be calling home and reporting you know all your print jobs to who knows
where and if you think I'm a paranoid that's actual documented cases of stuff like that that's
oh I have no doubt yeah good so the next one we're getting close to the end now was 1775 which
was Steve Pickle's excellent episode on Sonic Pie KD Murray comments saying that he'd never heard
of Sonic Pie before and he's been using it since since he heard the episode so very good and
yeah I imagine a few people would have been tempted to rush off and and mess around with it
I am but I haven't got around to yet so then 1776 was Vim Hintz 4 by by me yours truly and the love
book commented missed out on the chance of an Independence Day joke 1776 and all and some smart
asked I commented back saying I always thought that film was a bit silly myself and so I'm really sorry
terribly terribly sorry I had to magnitude in favour at 1777 in skis where I kindly commented
say thank you DJ Andrew and DJ Dave I didn't think we came across as DJs but you know we
and we have we have alternate grids waiting for us somewhere anyway so nice episode he says
and he's magnitude member himself and didn't know of most of the artists that we play but then
that's another one of those fun things you know you person A spots a thing that person B doesn't
and then shares it with them and they go wow thanks very much and go ahead
okay last one then 1780 was a hookers update on True Crypt and GNU PG and and I commented on this
but just for the record but pretty much what I said earlier on that I was not aware of the problems
that Verna Koch had been suffering as the the originator of GNU PG and and I used this package
every day pretty much and it's bad bad bad so I went and found his donation page and
checked him out a little contribution as one you know it's not saying you should but that
that's that's what I feel I should do so that's what I did yeah if you're if you're doing something
like that or just thinking maybe it's something you can put into your calendar to email yourself
you know renew set up an automatic thing with whatever PayPal or whatever you use or
or set up a reminder in your calendar to go around to these sites and if you can't afford it that
month well yeah you just have got the guilty feeling the next time you buy a cappuccino or something
yeah yeah yeah it's it's uh I just need to come up with a with a system as you say and then
then I feel doubt you will do so it'll be written in pearl or perhaps it'll be a script absolutely
yes it will be sending me pop up saying contribute now do it do it do it do it exactly all right well
I don't have anything more to comment on I'm extremely tired and I've got to go to bed
now I've finished two and that's uh that's good that's one that's one finished and you can put
it to bed excellent anyway tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of chorus non-video
text editor open assistive device project by Kura Kura I've no idea what that is so we will
find out tomorrow tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of packer public radio joy
now and cheers all right goodnight bye good night
you've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org we are a community podcast
network that release the shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our
shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a
podcast then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hecka public radio
was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and it's part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave
a comment on the website or record a follow up episode yourself unless otherwise status
today's show is released on the create of comments attribution share a light 3.0 license
