Episode: 1321
Title: HPR1321: What's in my Bag
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1321/hpr1321.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 23:30:17

---

Some of them didn't.
Hello again, HPR. I'm coming to you live from the front porch again with the local
feral cat Barney and I hope I have enough time to record this other podcast and make it interrupted.
If so, I'll try and re-record it later. Just finished up the follow-up to the week in freedom.
And I really am enjoying this what's in my bag series. And so I wanted to follow through.
I've been carrying a 10-buck two bag for the better part of probably six years or so.
And it is beat up. I used to commute to work on a bicycle and it's taken a couple of spills,
moving pretty quick. It has saved my skin several times. It is a black 10-buck two-bag with a gray
stripe down the middle, built when they still made them in San Francisco. And it's covered in
some band patches, some custom made by friends of mine. A wonderful little from black flag to white
collar patch on the bottom of it. There's a long story behind that. Buy me a beer sometime and I'll
fill you in. But the general contents of my bag, clipped on the exterior, I carry some pure
L for whenever I get gunk on my hands. I eat a lot of oranges at work and it cuts right through
the stickiness. I carry a carabiner with a piece of string attached to it so that I can easily
clip a water bottle on here. The one thing that's not in my bag right now is my water bottle. I
carry about 32 ounces of water just about everywhere I go. Generally in a Nalgene, but I'm container
agnostic. I carry with me a small Winchester multi-tool, very small tool, has a couple of small
screwdrivers and some pliers and a nail file. Cheaply made, not very high quality but very good in a
pinch. Clips right onto my strap. Works quite well. I carry a little wall tag keychain from there,
from their gear. Quite enjoy that clothing company if I might plug someone for a minute, but at
any rate that's the zipper or the zipper broke. So now it's a wall's keychain. In the front zipper,
I keep a can of Altoids because my son eats them constantly. I keep a couple of packs of
clove chewing gum. I really love clove and carry some chewing gum with me wherever I go. I also
have two or three bags of tea. I like to drink some tea now and then and a packet of good old BC
powder. Nothing like an analgesic powder with some caffeine in it when you've got a terrible
aspirin in caffeine or cure almost anything. I'm pretty sure. Moving to the interior,
I keep a flashlight that I got when I was working with the open-suicide community, just an LAD
flashlight. It's got a, it looks like six, nine LADs in it. Pretty bright little guy. I carry some
blist X for chapter lips, a couple of pins, just a simple ballpoint pins.
In a business card, so if somebody finds my bag, they know who it belongs to. Got a fisherman's
front end and I carry some extra stuff in. I carry a spare pair of headphones. A stand for my
iPhone, which I never use. And two little flash drives, very small metal, a Kingston one and then
another one that I got from Novel and Open Suicide that is just the little pocket knife style.
Carry those from my GPG keys and moving anything around.
In the other pocket, I have a poncho, just a little plastic poncho that fits in one of the tiny
pockets. A small box of toothpicks, the T-Tree soaked toothpicks from Thursday Plantation.
Really great. When you need to clean your teeth out, get a power adapter in here.
Got a key to my bike lock, which I never use anymore because now my commute to work is approximately
45 minutes away, so I can't ride my bike anymore. Carry a small self-contained first aid kit,
zip up, it's got some cough drops and some pepto, you know, band-aids, tweezers, that sort of thing.
A cold pack, antibiotic appointment, Q-tips, the standard stuff. A couple of meal bars. I've got
two pro bars, a peanut butter one and a third original blend. I carry those if I get hungry
and sometimes I find it work. I don't have time to feed myself appropriately. So in the main
compartment, I always carry a towel. It goes back, yes, yes, it goes back to Hitchhiker's Guide to
the Galaxy. The first time I heard that, I figured it was genius and so I've been carrying a towel
ever since and I highly recommend everybody else carry one. It is so useful. Then I have a small
laptop sleeve from my work laptop. Right now I'm carrying two books. I have the Annotated Turing,
Charles Petzold. Check that one out from the library. It's a guided tour through Alan Turing's
Historic Paper on Computability and the Turing Machine. Really great book. It's the Layman's Turing.
And then I have Learn to Play Go, Volume 2, The Way of the Moving Horse by Janice Kim. And
barring this from a buddy of mine, wonderful book on sort of intermediate skills and go.
Highly recommend it and thanks to my buddy for letting me borrow that. Then I have a small
mead 5 star index card. I don't even know how to describe this. It's a binder. It's a spiral bound
binder and two thin plastic covers with a neoprene, maybe not neoprene, sort of nylon cover around
the spiral and inside it contains four plastic folders, four three by five notebooks or no cards,
excuse me, index cards. And maybe one of these days I'll explain my note taking an organization
system, but these four little pockets contain my notes for my everyday life. And without this I
would be lost. And it is nice that it's all plastic because it's mostly waterproof. Also the inside
of my bag contains a waterproofing material. I often carry cold things that have condensation
in my bag or I will carry around liquids, be it a beer run or perhaps some coffee or tea in my
water. So if that comes out, my laptop sleeve is waterproof as well. So my notes and the contents
of my bag and my laptop all stay safe, but I guess any books in there are going to be in trouble.
Now there's a tell though. So if it all spills out, I guess I'll be okay. So I think that's it.
That was a very, very, very short podcast I understand, but I am pressed for time and I wanted
to continue the series and I don't really carry much around. So thank you so much for listening
again. Thank you so much for supporting HPR. Please report some podcasts. I would love to hear
this. What's in my bag series continue? It has been a blast. And I hope that my bag has been
entertaining to you as well. All right guys, we'll catch you on the next podcast. Thank you for your time.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital.Pound and the Infonomicum Computer Club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are proudly sponsored by
Lina Pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinaPages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons, attribution, share a line, 3.0 license.
