Episode: 1438
Title: HPR1438: 2013-2014 HPR New Year Show 2013-2014 After Show 3 of 4
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1438/hpr1438.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 02:50:11

---

.
John's back by looks at it, but I wish he gave him some actual white space in the
recordings or something.
I mean, if there's no chat really, some of them might want to chat here later, I'm thinking,
if not, it's over, isn't it?
Oh, it's not over.
That's still a configuring grab.
I wonder if the mumble, I don't know how you guys processed the feed, but I know
Audacity has that automatic feature to sort of like minimize...
Don't go moving from over and speak by the server, but...
To minimize like white empty noise, I think that's a great feature.
Oh, yeah, that's an easy fact, you put it out.
That's an episode.
Right, so it's like a good time for another break, because nothing much is going on.
I'm just playing around with command line RSS readers, playing around with news, butter right
now.
I think, I think we'll use it now, I don't use RSS reader.
I use it for downloading torrent and nzb files, and podcasts.
Yeah, to put on the whole thing, it's news thing.
I used to really be very much into that, going on to all these articles, and seeing what's
going on, and all that, especially years ago, and then with something like, and then with
something like Identicao, when I got on that, I just fully abolished estimates, and
he would link to all the, like, a lot of stuff, and I could go on from that, and the whole
change to Pampio, and he doesn't really, and he doesn't really, that really did split
the Identicao community, I think, a lot of people just moved, just went on, carried on
with different status net sites.
But, yeah, I used to kind of follow him, I used to go on my timeline a lot, and just
go through, and go through 50 pages of whatever, and going on different links and so on, and
then it all kind of changed with the Pampio switch, and I don't really, and I'll feel
it, and do it any more, and I just, I don't really follow the link, excuse me, but I occasionally
go on the site, so I seem to pick up the main stories anyway, and the lot of the articles
are pretty much the same, and they have been for years, and, like, what I like, and stuff
anyway, so.
Ah, I don't use it for, ah, I use, use net strictly for the binaries, and I don't do any
social networking whatsoever, other than IRC.
Yeah, yeah, I'm basically not doing social networking, I keep Pampio, I just messaged him
there, and I realise, you know, you know, well, I've only got so many followers, and it's
not that many people are in me, and, you know, I can make a lot of money here and there,
but it just didn't feel like it was worth doing it in my case, and, um, and then I've
still, I've just still, um, and, yeah, so social networking, I just didn't really bother
with that anymore, and it really did pop anyway, so, got a Facebook, but I don't really
use that, and, um, but IRC, you said, you called that social networking, I suppose it is
but I think more, I would call that chat room, say not, no, it's not social networking,
so, yeah, I like, I like, I like, I see, I see it's great, I think, yeah, I get all of
my TV shows and crap from USNet and Torrents, so, that's why I'm interested in those,
and just trying to set up something new and automatic on this router I'm playing with.
Well, you told that to all the anti-parathy people, publicly.
It's legal in Canada, man.
How is it?
Yeah, we pay this nice tax on our hard drives and flash drives and...
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, I've heard something about that for, yeah, it must have been Canada.
Well, I actually know, I think Holland might be doing something like that as well.
I'm not sure quite there.
I think most of the Commonwealth countries do something like that,
on all the UK.
As I said, most.
Yeah, they're trying to, in the Canadian legislature,
they're trying to get rid of the ability to download but keep the tax.
Oh.
So, what would the tax be on?
It's a recordable media, tapes, DVDs, blank CD-ROMs, flash media,
like USB thumb drives, SD cards, compact flash, any type of removable media,
internal and external hard drives.
Pretty much everything, man.
It started out as just being CD-ROMs and then it moved to CD and DVD-ROMs and then it
removed to any removable storage media.
So, now, if you guys pay that tax, is it when you buy,
when you, well, is it like per item or do you...
I guess, like, is that a building in tax where like,
because I guess there's, I don't know, I guess here, you can pay like a liquor tax,
but is it built into the price of the...
Yeah, it's built down.
You as the consumer don't see it.
Okay, okay.
Yeah, because that would be hard to do because whenever you text different items different
way, especially like something you can get from say like a grocery store or something like that,
it would be hard to calculate it as a consumer.
I'm sure what I do is not technically legal, but it's also not technically illegal.
I'm under the opinion that if you have the ability to record TV shows from a channel,
you have the ability to download them.
Yeah, I think I would be of that opinion also.
Unless I'm downloading them in a higher quality that I can record them, the sketchy there.
Like, I think it's okay to download a TV rep, but it's not so okay to download a Blu-ray or a DVD
rep.
Let's see, I guess the other thing too is, you know, if you download something,
like say you down, you buy a movie from, or basically you rent a movie from Netflix, right?
But also you can buy movies from Netflix.
And if I was to do that, I would want to be able to make a backup copy of that because,
you know, once say if Netflix ever went away, you know, would they be willing to give you your
item or movie that you purchased from them, or are you just like up the creek?
Amazon would probably be a better example of that.
Amazon, you can rent or buy movies, and they offer a Windows-only software that you can download
the movie to watch offline. The last time I remember reading about it, there was a limit.
You could only have five movies downloaded at a time in your, in a local cash at the quality you
wanted, and you could, you could only watch your own Windows. It didn't work on anything else.
So if you had more than that local cash, you'd have to basically download it from them again,
if you wanted to watch it.
Yeah, and if I was remembering when I was reading it, it did some sort of authorization on
the local copies that you had, like it gave them a key, and then it would revoke the key if you
didn't, like you download five movies that you bought, and then you downloaded the six when it
revokes the key of the first movie, so you can't watch it. You can still have it in your
possession, but it's encrypted and you can't watch it.
So basically, if it's encrypted and you can't watch it, it's not really in your possession.
No, it's not free. It's all DRM stuff, but that's to keep you from giving it to your friends.
I was looking, reading something online, and they were saying that the Game of Thrones
series and also Breaking Bad was the two most pirated series, and I'm not sure who actually
said this, but I think it was one of the creators of one of those two series, and they were saying.
Yeah, I mentioned the Game of Thrones theme earlier about how it was apparently the most
pirated series, and yeah, Breaking Bad was the odd one, and then I actually see something with
the creators of Game of Thrones, and they, well, they said about that, but I think you kind of said,
I don't think that they sort of understand why pirated it, but they would want people to buy it
really, and they said, you know, but yeah. Right, and the quote I saw was one of them said,
hey, having the most pirated series was even better than having an Emmy.
I don't think I saw that, but it's kind of like, it kind of means that if it's the most pirated
means the show is really popular, but that's the only thing with that really. Right, right.
So having a scene with popular can be good, and actually because of some of these pirates,
of course some people might then go and start washing the siren in a broad way, you know,
and they get more money that way. That same argument could apply to music when they all go,
well, no, the music, we're losing all this money, blah, blah, blah. But if people can try the
music first, or be told that this is good and that is good, then some people are going to buy it as
well, say. Right, right. I can see that. Or if, you know, I'd be inclined because I really like
breaking band to say, hey, if Vince Gilligan comes out with something else, you know, he has a
track record of being popular with me, I'd be willing to, you know, try out another one of his
series. All right. I'm a member of a private tracker. And let me throw you some statistics for
Game of Thrones. There's 130-ish torrents here. And there've been 70,000 snatches of those
torrents in the seasons of Game of Thrones. Yeah, apparently, cool. This is actually going to,
actually, no, no, it was all a click episode. Yeah, the guy who was gone about,
came a phone and we were on BBC Click, that's right. And let's say about whatever it was about
about piracy and what they were basically saying as well, and there is how 75% of the torrent
traffic is all, all this pirated, you know, stuff, this pirated tb-shit of stuff. But 75% is
piracy of all the torrent traffic in the world apparently, according to this show. But then they
also mentioned how, I think they did mention that actually, you can use torrents to move around
bay data. And so on. But that's right. No, no, no, no, no, how the guy who started bit torrent on,
he'd interviewed, it must have happened, yeah. And he was trying to say how he wanted to have
make his reputation a bit better when it came to torrent because it's seen as being this big
thing for piracy. And now 75% of it is user piracy, not kind of thing, but don't know how you can
also move a perfectly legal data using torrents, well, big files and so on. But yeah, that was quite
interesting. Oh, pirate back out. What was that? I think, um, Cooper too said he would be right back.
Yeah, you know, that makes me think of Alfred Noble when he invented dynamite. And, um, I guess
he, he saw his obituary because I guess someone thought he died and he didn't like his obituary.
And, um, you know, because I guess he thought that most people would be, would remember him for
creating a weapon of war. And so then he wanted to be remembered for something else. And I guess
he started the piece of prizes. So you just can't, you know, if you create something, you can't
really control how it's going to be used for good or bad. Well, it depends on what it is, but yeah,
showing dead and wikes you how, really. And the car, yeah, if you can, if you make the gun,
you can't really control how it's done. If you, if you mention the car, you, you know, you can't
control how that's going to be used. And so it goes on. But I guess, I guess when you talk about guns,
if it, if it is, um, being used for good or bad, it depends on, you know, if you're looking at the
barrel, or you're holding the, uh, the handpiece. If you invent mumble, you can't, uh,
I don't think I've ever stopped. So are there like apps?
To use, use net like modern apps. I think there's a couple modern ones, but I don't use them.
Yeah, I'm just surprised to hear that they're still around.
Not perfectly legal. There's nothing wrong with it. Oh, no, not, not, not that it's illegal or
anything. I just thought that, you know, people would use like a IRC or, you know, something else,
uh, besides the internet. IRC is too slow. So what, so what would you think would be like one of the,
uh, most popular channels on using it today? All binaries TV shows or all binaries TV.
Pretty much anything that spits out a TV show, a movie, our weight bonus was pretty big,
but that was just, uh, everything. So what is boneless?
Alt binaries, boneless. Homeless?
Boneless, like no bones in your body. Oh, okay.
It'd be pretty cool if we could get podcasts up here. That would be a nice way to, uh,
reduce load on ISPs and reduce load, uh, sharing those around.
I'm going to actually back in New Brunswick. My, uh, my ISP is my main
due snap provider. I didn't actually have to start, uh, paying for it until recently.
So, so how, how are, um, internet access speeds in Canada?
In New Brunswick, I have fiber to the house and it's like 80, no, it's up higher now.
It's like a hundred and something megabits down and 80 megabits up.
Okay, I don't, I don't care how cold it is up there. I want to move now right away.
And I pay around 150 a month for that, but that includes the phone, no TV.
Okay, I can see that. That doesn't seem bad.
Oh no, for that speed, that's not outrageous at all. And there's no cap.
It's unlike the rest of Canada.
Sounds wonderful.
But, um, my power there has been out since the 23rd, so I'm kind of starved for content at the moment.
Because of, uh, ice storm?
Massive ice storm. And it's not supposed to be back on till the fourth.
Actually, my wife can't even get to the house right now because there's still a tree blocking the road.
That's terrible.
Yeah, they, uh, when they got, uh, propane heaters in the basement and they have to carry the
propane tanks about half a mile.
So, so when they have like massive storms like that, do they allow people to use like, uh,
alternative alternative, uh, transportation modes like, say, uh, snowmobiles?
I don't know. It's usually a lot of people have snowmobiles and stuff and they drive
them on the roads. And anyway, it's not exactly legal. And you really damage your, uh, your
treads if you're driving on pavement. But, uh, people do it all the time anyways.
Yeah, it just seems like that would be, you know, a really nice alternative of, you know,
means of transportation rather than getting stuck in a snow drain.
Well, they, uh, it definitely wouldn't be okay in the bigger cities, but like where my house is,
it probably wouldn't be frowned upon as bad. But, uh, the RCMPs out where I live are just massive decks.
Well, I'm going for a break. I'll hold you back in a bit there.
Okay. Take care.
I eat two and like, I don't know, chat for ages.
Oh, it's verbal. Verbal's very verbal.
Finally. Because if it goes on for, uh, one month, I don't think I'm doing that long way,
I don't think. But, um, if it was to go on for another like, uh, I think it's,
well, hang on a bit about, uh, nearly 50 now. It would, it would be like,
the whole of New Year's day and people talking about earlier, but I don't know if I'll,
I don't think people are going to give that on that long, but who knows? We'll see. We'll find
now, I guess. We need like different people doing that as well as other than work.
Yeah, it would be interesting to see the stats on that because, um,
I wonder how many people who couldn't really make it would listen to it. And how many hours
they would listen to, I mean, there's one thing that downloads something, then, you know,
another to actually listen to. Yeah, yeah, it's another thing that's, yeah, she listened to it,
not from it. Well, I'm trying to stock up on podcasts and stuff that I haven't listened to
because I'm about to be working very long days, probably by myself.
No, one, one thing I've noticed where a, uh, a podcast really helps me out is when I'm driving,
it helps, uh, cut down on my road rage, not that I'm really, you know,
I have the really deal with that. But I mean, if I'm stuck in traffic, I don't really mind if I
have something nice to listen to. But, you know, if I'm just sitting there, it seems like the time
just goes just drags by if I don't have anything to listen to.
If I'm in traffic, I have to be playing something very loud to, to counteract my, uh, my rage.
I have extremely bad road rage. It's funny. Sometimes when I'm in traffic and it starts moving,
I'm like, oh man, I was just getting into this and it's like, it's the opposite. You want to
have, uh, some time to listen to it, especially like if you reach your destination, you know, you're
like, oh my god, I just want to finish this. Oh man, my favorite thing to do on a long road trip
is to, uh, throw on some old Lodolinux links shows that, that's great.
Yeah, I was, I was sad to see, uh,
deviates disappear from the airways.
Are you still around everyone's in the well? I still got a cell phone number.
Yeah, I've got his home number. I, I should call him actually.
Can I give him buzz every once in a while? He's usually really busy now. I usually have the
best luck just sending him a text. But man, I really miss him. I'd like to just
grabbing through like a 15 minute interview and throwing HBR so other folks can hear him.
There you go. Yeah, that, that would be awesome. Awesome, Mr. Chess and Griffin a lot. He was
really cool. Oh, that's another show that I still have that I play repeats of.
Have you ever been to, uh, any of the archive podcasts that, uh, from, uh, crap, I can't
remember the name of the website now? Probably not. Not, not archive.org, right?
No, not archive.org. It's more specific for hacking and freaking.
Okay, probably not. It's like textfiles.org or something like that? No.
Audio.texfiles.com. Okay, I have to check that out. Yeah, if you're ever content starved,
they've got, uh, I think it's most of the, uh, radio freak America shows,
all infanomicon talk with attacking. They got pretty much everything backed up. The guy that runs
it as an archivist and he just loves to archive stuff. There's a couple talks from Defcon up there.
You got to listen to those. They're hilarious. Oh, wow. Tempting, really tempting.
There's a, there's a lot of media there. Um, I'd say half of its crap or it based on like news and
stuff, but there's a lot of stuff on there that's still relevant because the underlying system
of Linux hasn't really changed that much. All right. What, what was that, um, address again?
I'll send you a link in the mumble chat. Got it. Thanks. Yeah, bud. Enjoy.
Note the console coloring when you get there. Hey, that's, that's what we should get together and do
is, uh, have everybody contribute to the big list of, uh, techie podcasts. I know Monster B
had one around for a while. But, uh, do you like listening to like talks from conferences and stuff?
Like really hacker techie oriented talks? Definitely. All right. There's, uh, chaos communication
congress. Uh, I'll dig around and see if I can't pull up their FTP server or whatever it is they
have, but they record all of their talks and put them online. I usually grab them in a torrent file
or something. Sounds nice. I, I can't believe it will not stop snowing. Just when you think
finally, finally, it kind of peeders out and then it just starts up again. Look up the weather for
a place called, uh, Conklin, Alberta, C-O-N-K-L-I-N. That's the closest town to where I'm going to be working out.
I like the little, uh, tagline on there on web page. It's cold outside. Still.
Yeah, yesterday it was like minus 30 degrees Celsius. Ah, I found it verbal.
I was just looking at the audio text house. This is the web version of their chaos communication
congress, uh, FTP. Got it. Some of the more recent years also have, uh, pretty high quality video.
Sounds nice. And as a note, not all of the talks are in English.
Oh, okay. But usually the ones that aren't in English have, uh, German in the name. And they're
usually prefixed with dash D instead of dash EM. Okay, cool.
But you can also load this up into like LFTP and just grab the whole server.
That sounds like it would be like a massive download. I don't have those kind of speeds that you do.
Oh, I don't have them here. Uh, that's only a new Brunswick here. I have maybe,
oh, they claim it's supposed to be 25 megabits down and five megabits up. But realistically,
it's more like two, not two. It's more like, uh, maybe 15 megabits down and sometimes two megabits up.
Okay. Hey, didn't you win a machine at one of the, um, Linux Fests a couple of years back?
Oh, no, I wanted some DVDs. Oh, I thought you, I thought you wanted like a, like an HP computer.
Maybe I'm thinking of someone else. Oh, no, that wasn't me. I wanted some, uh, some RiftTracks DVDs.
But I was in the, um, the LPI test at the time. Oh, okay.
I still have those actually. I quickly ripped them and converted them.
If you ever get interested in using that again, there's a provider that has relatively low speeds.
I think it's like one megabit down, no SSL. And they, uh, but it's free and they only have 10 days
of retention. So she's here kind of looking at, yeah, I want to grab a TV show that I missed last
night. There you go. Okay. I don't know. I think, um, I don't know, I think more so nowadays,
I'd be more interested in radio programs. But, uh, it's, it's surprising. A lot of the radio
programs are providing a lot of their content online now. Are they including commercials in that?
Um, no, no, they are at least not the ones that I'm listening to.
I think one, one of the, uh, the ones that I've been listening to is a radio lab out of, uh, New
York City. It's, uh, it's an awesome podcast. I think 2600 still doing podcasts. Yes, they are.
Hey, it wants to be side of still up. I love it. Fantastic. I have to run for about 10-ish minutes
while I go do some laundry. You gonna be around? Yeah, I'll be around. All right. I'll talk to you
in a few, bud. All right. Take care. I'm back now. My laundry's not done. I don't reckon anyone's
still on here. Other than verbal. No, I'm here. Oh, what's up, Sandy? Not too much.
I just had to step out do some laundry. Yeah, I'm about to go make a phone call, grab some food and
that. I'll probably grab a shower too. Yeah, you probably needed after this long day.
All right, man. Take care. Y'all ready to be back? I don't know how long I'll be around until
I have to go to the grocery store, probably. Well, there are still at least three recordings going,
so I'm guessing that we're going to keep going for a while here. Why not extra content, right?
Play it in the middle of July bonus from the New Year show.
Well, I got this news-beater thing going and I can't for the life of me figure out how to make it
rename the file slash folder names of stuff as it downloads it. Can you, can you set a default
folder name per, like, say, podcast? Well, I want it to pull down the name of the
title. I couldn't think of what I was trying to say. I wanted to pull down the actual title of the
in the RSS feed. I wanted to pull the title and the rename the folder, the name of the title,
and or skip the folder and just rename the name closed file, the name of the title.
Oh, okay. So the only way I used that before was getting an RSS feed of
torrent files and then basically passing that off to a torrent tool to actually download the
torrent. Yeah, that's basically all I'm doing. Except I'm doing it with both torrents and
NCB files at the same time. I think TLKG had done some scripts to do that. I think that's who I got
the stuff from before. Yeah, I looked at his stuff. I had it from some past notes and some
Google searches, but I don't see his stuff was just for torrents. I don't really have a problem
with the torrents. They do just fine. But when I'm pulling a NCB, when I when I pull it down,
it just uses the name of the NCB file and if the the name of the file has spaces,
it gets done into these lovely percent 20s into my file names and folder names.
Right. So you need something to pass it through and filter it. You'd probably just need to pass
through like said and in place edit it so you can like change the spaces to underscore or something.
Yeah, I'm not exactly sure where to do that in new speeder. I don't think you can do it in
new speeder. You probably have to put a wrapper script around it or something.
But since you're doing this on a router, you really don't have a shell or anything.
I've got bash. Like actual full 4.2 bash. Then it should be doable. I'd have to do some
fiddling to figure it out myself, but you should be able to basically do a search and replace
on a string. Not super easily, but should be doable. Actually, you know it'd be easier.
TR, the TR command, the translate, which is a separate binary. You could actually possibly put
on your router. Yeah, I just look forward. It's not here. Actually, it is here.
Well, I can get it to pull stuff down automatically and dump the dump all the files in.
But then I need it to go back and rename the files to because it's not just as simple as pull out
all of the spaces and put a period in instead. Some of the file names are scrambled completely.
Just 64 character text, alpha numeric. Yeah, that's a little bit more difficult probably.
I'm not real familiar with this, so I don't know how to start it.
Yeah, if it wasn't for that crap, it would be easy. So I don't do a lot of this stuff.
Hey, that sounded like, hey, if it wasn't for the hard parts, it would be easy.
Yep, that's what it was. The windows guys can do it. Why can't I?
Oh, you can do it. Use it to figure out how. Yeah, and windows won't run on the router.
And you can probably actually do it better than the windows guys can.
Oh, yeah. Currently right now, I'm using...
Ooh, nice. Less than 32 megs of RAM out of 256.
Yeah, do that with windows.
In my Slackware box, I'm using less than 700 megs of RAM out of 12 gigs.
I was listening to a podcast and they were talking about running. I think it was running a windows
computer on a space station. And they said they were going to think about doing a test whether
windows or Linux was more efficient. I'm like, really, really, they even have to do that.
Well, if they were running a Ubuntu, it would probably be about the same.
Now, they were running on Windows XP and that says, well, maybe we'll look into this Linux.
I'm not sure which version they were considering.
Well, there's some really fun things you can do with Linux that I haven't figured out how to do
in Windows or I just don't know where they are in Windows like moving your far partition to
RAM and maybe some other parts to RAM.
Cooper, did you hear the part of the conversation last night where we were talking about
distros and we got in and talking about like Gen 2 and Archen and that and being able to build
your own kernel? And I remember who brought it up, but somebody said they had actually...
They knew somebody who would actually build the kernel such that they got it with their
full image and everything to scale down to the point where everything fit into L2 cache on the CPU.
Yeah, wasn't that a really, really specific build for a server?
Well, it's something like that, but I mean, you do the same thing with your router. If you could
actually build the kernel to the point where if it's in the L2 cache on the router,
then you don't even have anything in the main kernel space running in the rest of your RAM.
Yeah, that's pretty ridiculous small, but the router like that is the actual exact
application that you would do something like that for. Oh, absolutely, I bet you the speeds on
that thing were just unrealistically fast. That's one realistic of it if it actually worked.
Yeah, when I build my kernel, I usually use a bunch of modules. I don't really build hardly anything
in the kernel itself, except for what has to be built in, except for like with some specific
hardware, like with the Apple TV, I build everything in. I actually need to test and see how long this
battery is going to last on the slackware and this laptop. In Windows, it was given about five to
six hours. Gen 2, I was getting push in 10. It was nice. Oh, you got slackware on there now,
he said? I'm dual-blooding slackware in Gen 2. Slackware should do pretty good, because
he, petfold, vulcoding is actually fairly conservative in terms of his kernel builds and stuff.
Oh, come on, man, you got to know me better than that by now. I don't run anybody else's kernel.
I'm too much of a snipper. I cut out anything for any hardware that I don't have.
Oh, that's probably pretty smart too, especially when you see some stuff like Red Hat suddenly
jumping their kernel up to like 700 meg in memory. It's like, what? Wow, that's crazy.
They were apparently loading all drivers, everything you ever wanted or could ever want. So
everything loaded and it just got humongous. It sounds like Windows.
No, it sounds like they loaded everything you never want it. Well, more crazy, that was on a server too.
I bet those guys were pissed. Even if you had the cheapest line-ode box at the beginning of
this, beginning of last year, that would have screwed you over because you only get five, 12 megs
around. Well, this is actually, I'm like bigger servers, you know, so it's got like 8, 12, 20 gig, 24 gig.
I actually found out that my old roommate in college now works for Red Hat, kind of jealous.
So what percentage of the application does two years would you say are running the terminal versus
GUI? This is crazy. It started snowing again here and I don't know when it started snowing,
but it may have to go sweep my driveway again. You're not going to get any sympathy from me.
Yeah, that was a joke because I said sweep, not trouble, sweep.
Yeah, it just started snowing here again. It's not supposed to snow again here until Friday.
Ah, not bad either. 5-10 centimeters. That's what? Two to four inches?
Well, looks like I might have to get bash potter or something to do this crap with.
Might actually work better just running out of gron, but I was kind of hoping for something
that I could go SSH into the system and look out. Oh, wow. Mash potter is awesome.
Did exactly what I needed it to. Isn't that kind of what I said from the beginning?
I said bash potter, but mash potter is the expanded version of it.
Yeah, and I can just append the stuff that I need to my URL list that's here.
I had to do a little bit of editing. I had to go in and tell it to look for in ZB files.
Wow, it's still on. Of course, it's getting a little slow, but it's still here.
Yeah, I just hit him out from some pancakes. Oh, I'm jealous.
Yeah, it was nice. Especially with Ningbury Jam, it's a Swedish Jam, I don't know if anyone knows it,
if you like it or if you should have, you should be able to get some over that actually.
But that's a very nice jam to put on pancakes.
Staying on tilt in Swedish.
If Cobra has anything other than maple syrup, they'll probably kill him up there.
A little bit like cranberry jam, or cranberry sauce, I should say, but it's not really,
it's a lot, it's a lot, it's got its own taste. It's a very nice stuff.
Yeah, but Cobra is up in Canada, and that's maple syrup country.
Well, yeah, yeah, my dad and my little brother went over.
Bono went to America quite recently, so he came back for Toronto and he also made
maple syrup, that he was going on a boxing day or the after Christmas.
But yeah, he knocked him in the air pool.
But yeah, this time I was on a band, maple syrup, sugar, lemon juice, or blueberries,
salt, good, and pancakes.
Yeah, I don't really like anything but syrup on my stuff.
Oh yeah, syrup, yeah, and syrup, that's good as well.
Who would you just chant it, I must have gone the way as well, I don't think on the way yet.
Was it just verbal, and then you, which I angle?
Yeah, it was just me in verbal sanctation of his own here a minute ago.
Yeah, it's still here.
Oh, I can tell you on about five seconds, my mumble's gonna crash.
Oh, that should be fun.
Not
that was, that was funny.
I watched it popping up like I'm watching the output and the terminal and it just pops
up with a bunch of hardware errors and then poop, mumble dies.
It died but reconnected right away, didn't it?
Well, I watched it die, so I just executed mumble again.
Ah, okay.
It's computers fast now.
The round still isn't full of cash.
Oh, there's also a 24 gig SSD in this thing.
Is that that ASUS router that you were working on?
No, this is my actual laptop.
Oh, okay.
No, the router hasn't died, the router's freaking awesome.
Yeah, after you got it back from being breakfast, it'd be pretty good.
Oh, I've breakfasted again, did you hear?
Oh, I missed that.
You've breakfasted again?
Yeah, I've breakfasted again, harder than the first time.
I actually did have to go make a serial cable and TFTP to fix it.
It was nasty, it was not fun.
Ouch.
But that's pretty cool.
See, I just don't get into playing that much with hardware.
That's the thing.
Well, believe me, I wasn't intending to get into playing that much with it.
I think I'm going to go run to the mini-mortem real quick and get some chips.
I get a crunching craving.
I saw too much junk food sitting right around me at this point.
Um, chips, you mean, as a...
Yeah, that's an interesting one, actually.
As I was saying, chips, you pull them in crisps like most of Europe,
but we say crisps, and then we say chips.
We mean, uh, french fries or everyone in the whole room, so...
That's the UK, those.
Yeah, we got fish and chips here, and that's about the only chips that are referred to as chips,
like you think of them.
Everything else is potato chips.
I was sorry, did you say fish and chips, meaning the level, why I'm saying?
By the way, chips means crisps, that is, I was saying.
Yeah.
That's, yeah, that's interesting.
I suppose it wouldn't believe work otherwise, because it'll be that you'd be saying like,
fish and fries, it doesn't really work, that's about the name for that one.
Actually, fish and fries doesn't sound too bad, a little bit of alliteration.
Probably some good marketing, go there.
Fried, fish and fries.
Sounds like it'd come from my neck of the woods.
But yeah, I am going to go run, get some chips.
I'll be back in like five, ten minutes, then I get to throw some water.
Oh yeah, yeah, sure.
They pull them, so don't go nowhere.
I don't know, it's all going to, it's all going to stop in that five,
ten minutes when you're gone.
And yeah, but now we're trying more seriously, I'm sure, still.
Kind of need another, um, you were paying on or somebody from another country,
or they don't really matter that much anyway.
And it will go silent.
And it will go silent.
Yeah, I'm looking at some other stuff here.
Maybe you want enough space for a little recording,
or are you running out in the home, was it?
That's what you were saying earlier, wasn't it?
I've got plenty of space.
So it's about like 200 gig of drive left and less,
and that's before I actually expand it.
I still have another terabyte, I still have another terabyte or so space available.
Oh, we're actually up to using 9.2 gig now.
Nearly 10 gigabytes then.
But it'll be more if it carries on.
Yeah, well, the main part of the show, the main 26 hours is like like 6.8 gig, I think.
Yeah, that would be it. That's a bit strange in a way, if you think about it.
The, um, so called after part of your after stuff is bigger than the actual thing.
It is.
A little 3.2 gig.
Yeah, I guess if more people are in here chatting and stuff and talking about random things,
it could be bigger.
But I don't know how anybody who actually wants to try to edit a 1.7 gig
mumble file, flack file.
Well, you're not idea except for taking some white space out of what I thought anyway.
Well, but editing it, getting it into audacity, 1.7 gig would be quite a heck of a load.
Haven't you got a file like that because of
the, I've been doing the after stuff in three hour chunks.
And that's trying out to be about 1.5 to 1.7 gig.
In fact, I just accidentally left this one run over.
Yeah, I just saw that you start that, plus, okay.
Well, that's interesting that last file, even though it was like 3.5 hours long as only 800 meg.
Yeah, I don't know, it depends on what's in it, doesn't it? Maybe it's a deal with how, how, uh,
to let the voices, how they sound and how much, oh, is it the,
ugh, the tone, the, you know, the bars, the, when you, when you play it, the, the go up.
It's pretty more about how consistent people were talking, how much they were talking, how many
people were talking, all of that. Yeah, it could be.
Well, I can see that because when I left yesterday, there were still quite a few people in the
room and they were all pretty much talking. I mean, there was like at least 10 people in.
Yeah. So other than this, what did you do for new years?
I did this. I was on here 26 hours.
Oh, yeah. Well, yeah, that's a few breaks and so on that assume, so.
I took, I took a couple of 15 minute nap breaks and half an hour for dinner.
50? Well, you had a nap of 15 minutes. Is that, you say in that break for 15 minutes?
Yeah, like a dose, a dose break lay down on the bed with a, with an alarm and 15 minutes later,
I got up. Yeah, but that's not much from that, but yeah.
It was just enough to let my body charge down, you know, and, and pick back up.
Back now. That was pretty quick. The store is like literally on the other side of the complex here.
I live right in the middle of Calgary. Well, not in the middle, but I live, you know,
highly residential area with a lot of convenient stores, grocery stores, et cetera. I can,
from my house, it's less than three kilometers to three different grocery stores.
You know, it was interesting. Yesterday, I spent some time with my wife's family,
and we were in downtown Chicago. And on the sudden, we saw this, like, you know, we were near
to the lake and we saw this little green light way over the lake. And, you know, we thought,
what is out there over the lake? You know, part of it was frozen.
So I thought it might be a snowmobile or something for some reason, although, you know,
who would go take that chance to go out there, you know, in a snowmobile. So one of the other
guys was saying, no, no, it's a police department drone. So I have to find out more about that.
A drone? I would figure it would have been like a buoy covering its snow.
No, it was moving. It was moving. Like I said, I thought it was, it was coming near the shore.
And I thought it was a, yes, snowmobile. Because what else would be out there? But apparently,
the police department is using drones now to sort of patrol the beach. And the other strange thing
was we were like on a 30th floor of this building. But we did see like two people, you know,
out on the ice and you really can't tell what they're doing out there. But from what it looked like,
one person was just wanting to walk into the lake and other person was trying to talk the other person
out of it, you know, it was, it was just strange. I'll be walking on a couple legs up north.
I actually have more information about what I'm doing, where I'm going, and who I'm working with
this year than I did last year. I don't know what to do with myself last year. It was just a day-to-day
thing of, yeah, get up here. You're working, oh wait, nope, you're not working, you're traveling.
2015 last day, is that what you mean, yeah? Yeah, last year. Yeah, was any, it was that year,
just a day ago, I don't know, but yeah. I could probably say it better last season.
So what are the plan, I think you're talking about plans, well, kind of from this year, so
what are people's plans for this year? Or expectations, or all that kind of thing, you know.
Buy Bitcoin, hold it, and hope it goes up.
Actually, my Bitcoin strategy is a little different than that.
It is one that actually Bitcoin, yeah, if it's legal to do online gambling in America,
which apparently it is, right? It is not legal to gamble online in America.
Yeah, yeah, so I said apparently it's legal to, but you say it's not, right?
It's not legal in that one, right? Yeah, okay, so here's the question, then, would that also apply
to Bitcoin? Because are these like gambling sites for Bitcoin now there as well? And so I'm
thinking, would that apply to Bitcoin as well, not to question Mark?
No, it's Bitcoin becomes a fiat currency itself.
Yeah, that's kind of a gray area at this point, since there's no legal status for Bitcoin in the US.
Yeah, but I think, although I think somebody did, something happened and somebody walked
something with Bitcoin and whatever, and then they were like, I mean, they actually treated it
sort of like a real currency and yen because of whatever, but yes, bit of a strange one,
isn't it? Because people are bad, because really, people are starting to use Bitcoin now as
as like a real currency or, you know, in exchange for goods. And I'm a bundle, as it is,
I'm putting Bitcoin quite well now as well.
You know, there was an article, there was an article recently that they might
open this, like, they might start using this key ask, like, almost like ATM for Bitcoin, and I
think Chicago is supposed to be like one of the first ones in the Midwest.
Actually, why is online gambling banned in America anyway?
Well, and also, another question, let's go with this. Do you have any of this like,
you know, like TV, gambling, type games where you can bring up and you can take part in my
event, win some money, possibly in all that?
Gambling in the U.S. just banned period. The only places that it's legal is Indian reservations.
And also, I guess, yeah. And isn't there a place in Missouri too?
Do you mean Las Vegas or what did you mean?
No, Indian reservations, like Native American reservations, it's legal.
Yeah, but also you got Casino's and Las Vegas, and also Las Vegas.
And I think there's also a place in Missouri that it's legal too.
There are also casinos here that you, it's usually like riverboats because I guess there's
something that, you know, there's no one entity that controls the riverboats and this was a
funny article that I read somewhere that like in the middle of some like landlocked state,
they put this like fake, fake pond basically and a riverboat on that fake pond
just to get around the gambling walls.
Yeah, and there is actually other cases. I mean, like here in, I mean, I'm in Nebraska and
there's actually, and in Iowa, there's actually a couple casinos right on the border between
Nebraska and Iowa because there is some casinos allowed in Iowa for some reason.
But not in Nebraska, what do you mean?
Well, you get down into the corner of Nebraska where Omaha is.
It's right along the border between Nebraska and Iowa. So there are actually some casinos in Iowa
that are just less than a mile off the border from Nebraska.
But in Nebraska, not allowed.
Right. Nebraska is illegal. Nebraska is illegal to gamble, but Iowa has, they actually certify some casinos.
Not a lot. They have only specific casinos that they will allow.
But some of them actually exist right along the border with Nebraska.
Right. Okay. Yeah.
Anyways, so don't have this TV gambling or anything like that or do you?
I don't know. There are TV things, but they're not gambling. They're just games.
Well, yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah. I mean, I think I do mean police games really, but what you can bring up and you can take part in some
game and win some money, possibly. And you know, I guess you probably have that as well.
But you're not betting. You're not actually gambling. You were just playing a game.
Right. And there's, there's things like call in radio shows where like if you give like the right answer,
you'll get a prize, but that's not really considered gambling because the, the, um, you're not paying any money.
Right. The contestant has really nothing to lose, you know.
Oh, you still have a great TV show over here. Um, I think I might have an American version.
Actually, I'm not sure about that. But um, called who wants to be a millionaire where
people would go on and they would answer certain questions and have an audience and all that.
And, um, you win money or you always start to lose money if you get the answer wrong and you've got
your phone or friend and, um, we have a few days. We had it first. Actually, yeah, I think
you're right here and then was syndicated out. I think you don't, you don't have to pay any money
to be a participant. They're for it's not gambling. Well, oh, I see, right? Yeah. I said, oh,
right. I said, yeah, I get you. Um, yeah, I think they stopped making that show here as well,
but wait, it was good. It went on quite a few years.
Actually, there was, they repeat it on, um, like, game show channels and stuff and I was watching one
the other night or whenever it was now. And, um, but yeah, it was, it used to be really good.
It used to be like the thing to always watch on Saturday or one of them and I don't think it's made
anymore. The other thing you have here is the lottery, which is, I guess, a former gambling.
Oh, yeah, we've got the lottery here. And I think, and again, other countries, they've got
things like that as well. Sweden, Satura and, but yeah, that sort of, I guess that can be,
I see there a game or gambling or whatever you want to say, but yeah, there's the lottery.
It's just a tax on stupid people. Well, some people apparently win, but it's not most done.
I've never lost. I've played four times in Georgia. So, if you're on the same name and bought a lottery ticket,
I've been able to buy one for, you know, quite a lot of, yeah, quite a few years now. And,
actually made that pretty of a, yeah, about 10 years or 11 years or whatever, but I'm actually
bought a lottery ticket, but oh well. I never bought a lottery ticket either. I was given one for
my 18th birthday and I want a free ticket off of that and then it won five dollars.
And then I won, I spent one of those dollars for another ticket and I won another free ticket
and then another free ticket. I don't get really much excitement out of scratching tickets or
picking numbers. And here they, and here they, yeah, you get scratch cards and all that hair as well
for everyone, the airplanes and they like say, oh, if you get, if you have this, if you have this
scratch card, you can, uh, win something possibly in the money gives a charity, they say, and
um, things like that as well, but I think maybe if people lose, and I think that I think
there are any of these things, even with like, um, chocolate wrappers and things like that as well,
I think again, you know, you tend to lose on these things, apparently you're going to,
you might win this and that, but I think maybe people lose and it's simple as that.
Well, by definition, I mean, most people play lose. I'll take a risk every, whenever the,
the, the, the prize lamin is like really, really high, like, you know, $10 million or something,
or $100 million, but yeah, it's just for the fun of it. It's not like, I expect to win.
Well, oh, yeah. I like to just do poker with some friends or some blackjack.
I wonder if anyone is actually on the live stream listening to us at the moment or not.
Well, probably not.
Well, I don't know what to do, I smell you, but I'm not sure about that.
Well, I'm sure there's about 20 active connections to the streams, so whether or not everyone's,
anyone's actually listening to us, that's another question, whether people are connected to the stream still.
I'd mind us about eight of those connections as mirrors.
Yeah, I'll say, or the mirrors, is that what you're saying?
No, no, no, this is all them together. So, you know, we do a quick count.
So, there's 19 total connections going across all of the streaming servers.
Right, right, okay. But yeah, it won't be in somebody's kitchen or something, but, you know,
broadcasting out. Well, instead of doing other things, or living room, or, yeah.
I'm trying to fold clothes and eat chips, and it's just making a greasy mask.
Yeah, not exactly a good combination there.
Good thing they're not my clothes.
I'm letting that fold in my clothes, because I wouldn't want to be wearing greasy,
chippy clothes. Yeah, all of my woes could have been solved if I just used a mask
potter in the first place. And how many hours ago did we suggest that?
I don't know, I was just looking for something different. I already used it.
Maybe for the next one, we should do a whole week. Now, people coming in randomly for the whole
week. I'm joking. Hey, go ahead. Sorry. So, for the ACF, accessible computing foundation,
what is their stated goal in terms of dollars? 100,000.
Not the old cropping, though.
Hey, maybe they should start something like the humble ACF bundle.
Well, these guys are towards awards for making donations.
Well, I did my part. I donated mine, so we'll see what happens.
Yeah, yeah, I'll plead to that as well, because all crores, you're on about the old cropping,
aren't you? Yes. Yeah, yeah, I feel so. Yeah, I'll plead to that as well.
As for if the campaign actually happens or not, well, that depends, I forget the amount,
we're in to go. Okay. Well, I'm guessing since yesterday, he's only had about maybe, well,
seven donations that show up on his site, but two that I know that aren't showing up. So,
probably about 10 donations between New Year's Eve and today.
Yeah. Being as many a lot of people should donate to that, because I mean, you know,
something might happen and people lose eyesight and so on as well. So, you know,
I just hope as the show actually goes out more people here, then maybe he'll actually get more
donations. Yeah. They need to set a longer timeline. Oh, he has. He's had over a month on this,
but he just hasn't been getting anywhere with it. But he also shows up that time of year,
you know, coming ready around Christmas and everything. Yeah, I thought about that too.
I think if it wouldn't, if it were me, I'd probably maybe do it around in April sometime.
Why is around Christmas a bad time of year? That's when usually people who see charity
things are more likely to give. That's after they go ahead and buy all their Christmas presents and
take care of any expenses they have for Christmas, buy all their Christmas food and do everything
else they can first. Yeah, I was going to, I was thinking something like that as well.
Yeah, they'll spend the money on Christmas, so which was, uh, uh, uh, uh,
send the sand, where he's called, sand chase, his point. Yeah, I mean, I, you know, you just said
a $50 Turkey. I've gone to the grocery store and just for me alone, I've easily dumped several
hundred dollars on groceries around the holidays, just because the prices do go up and stuff.
And you want to actually buy some more in case you're stuck at home with any storms or anything.
Or a lot of times you have to buy more because you have friends and family coming over.
But it's more to it. I would say even without that.
Yeah, we still have a lot of money. We don't buy any meat here, so that cuts out a huge amount of
expense. Yeah, yeah, two things. And, um, you said storms and I'm thinking, well,
we didn't really get that many storms in UK. Okay, there was something recently that was
briefly measured. It wasn't that major and another storm, but nothing, there's not really any
proper tornadoes or such and things like that. And, uh, my, uh, and cobalt was saying something
about not eating meat. I mean, I mean, buying meat, is that because you've got your own animals?
No, I don't have my own animals. Uh, I usually, uh, let somebody else buy it.
All right. It's like, if you want meat, that's fine. I'm not paying for it, but I'll cook it for you.
Yeah, and my roommate is, uh, like full on hardcore vegan diet.
So how does that work out with you letting other people buy meat?
It works out pretty well. A lot of people like chicken and steak.
Yeah, but if you're vegan, then you don't have chicken or steak.
I'm not vegan. I'm, I'm an omnivore. I'm the seafood menu. I see food and I eat it.
No, your roommate, you said it was. Yeah. So they weren't fish either, in that case as well, but
I missed what you said. I said, if somebody's vegan, they're not going to eat, they're not going to
eat meat and I'll sit inside and they're not going to eat fish as well.
He said your roommate was very good, didn't you? Right, but by seafood diet, I meant, uh, I'll eat anything.
Okay, right.
Seafood, eat food.
S-E-E, no, S-E-A.
Yeah, yeah, seafood. But anyway, to me, that would mean you would eat fish and stuff like that from the sea.
No, that's exactly what he's saying. He's not the case. He's saying sea isn't vision as an S-E-E.
He sees food. He eats food.
Okay, well, I understand now. Yeah.
Oh, it's probably my accent throwing off my syllables, I have a hard time with, uh,
enunciating everything.
But you sound confused by what I've described. So, uh, am I not explaining something correct?
No, it's fine. No, I've just always sensed out. But um, if you're missing anything, you'll eat anything.
And um, but, uh, that sounds like it was saying, but your friend was vacant. How does that fit him to get somebody else by me?
That was the other thing as well.
Oh, well, we have people over and like, uh, I do, I'm pretty good at cooking. So, I do most of the cooking.
Actually, I do all the cooking, uh, except for like spaghetti and pastas. But, uh, like anything on the grill,
I cook. So, like, if we have folks over and somebody wants hamburgers,
they just go pick up some ground beef from the store or something, bring it over and I fix it,
prepare it, grill it up. Or like, if they want chicken, I'd fix it and prepare it, grill it up,
or like, turkey dinner. We provide all the veggies, and if somebody wants a turkey with it, uh,
well, they bring it over and I fix it. And that's how that works.
Right, okay. I do all the cooking. They just provide, uh, the substance to cook.
Although in America, apparently, um, with, I think it's pigs and, um, maybe cows as well,
well, two things, actually. Uh, for one of them, they apparently kind of pump them up with
drugs to make them grow, uh, quicker, apparently. And then the thing about these, um, farms or
whatever, whether they're not really a farm, and we're like a factory, and they're like kind of
stuck in gauges and they're not really getting out much. I mean, I've said, like I'm saying,
apparently, yeah, I'm not sure how true all this stuff is, but, um, you might need something.
I actually live in Canada, but back home in Georgia, um, my family does not eat meat from a grocery
store or anything like that. Everything we eat is fresh and usually grow in ourselves. So, uh,
grow our chickens, gals, and we shoot our own deer hogs and whatever else.
Well, because of what I've had though, you know, like, you know, I'll show where the meat came from or
where they just, I was just saying, yeah, I was another reason. Cause it tastes better.
Like if you, if you have a hamburger, like you go to the grocery store and you get some medium ground
beef or whatever the fattiest ground beef that you can get, you make a hamburger, cook it on
the grill. You go to somebody who has a cow that's been grass and, uh, corn fed up to the,
well, actually, grass and grain feds better than corn fed, but that's just my personal taste.
So you get one that's grass and grain fed up to the day it dies. And then, uh, you have that
adding no season into them, the, um, the homemade cow, the one that, uh, was grass and grain will be
better than the supermarket cow, which is two weeks of nothing but corn. Yeah, yeah, I guess, uh,
the corn's supposed to sweeten the meat up, but I didn't, to me, it just washes out a lot of good
flavor. Then it also kills like the nutritional value of the cow, like as far as the nutrients
in the meat, there's not as many to me. And they just do it to fatten them up so that the cow is
heavier than, uh, heavier and fatier than, uh, the one that's grass and grain.
And this process is approved and mandated by the FDA for anybody that sells meat,
wholesale, and meat, I'm referring to cows specifically. I don't know about all the pigs and
everything. So, um, usually we just go hunting for them. Here, the supermarkets are pretty much
taken over on it, all those kind of stuff as well. I mean, there are some butchers still around,
but it's mainly just just people going to super market for me and then for the else now. In general,
well, when a few local shops were this and that as well, but yeah, there's a couple of,
little shops around here that are just like farmer's markets and they just have fresh produce
and I'm pretty much you around. Well, yeah, they can be in markets as well and the towns and stuff,
but, um, it's kind of like the supermarkets in general. I've kind of taken over a lot of stuff,
not many people go into the butchers or go to groceries, get their own fruit from there,
or vegetables, but that's just how it is. Everybody prefers one-stop shop instead of having to stop
by the butcher and the bakery and the grocer. It's convenience, man, it's bad. Raise your kids,
tell them that convenience is evil. You need to work at stuff if you want it to be the best that it can
be. And then they have bakery inside the supermarkets to have their own bakeries and stuff,
and that and that as well. So it's, yeah, it's just all but one stop, really.
All right, now as far as the bakery and the supermarket, there's one of these grocery stores down
the road from us and they have the best bakery as far as like bagels. They do all their home,
they do their own bagels and everything right in the store. They have awesome bread. They do,
they do a veggie bread and it is just out of this world. I've never had anything like it.
Oh, a veggie bread. What's the difference between that and some normal bread or whatever?
No egg, no milk, no dairy. Are you saying it tastes nicer than normal bread?
Absolutely, easily. It's much better than regular bread.
They do three different kinds. They do like, they do one that's green peppers and oats.
And I have like oats sprinkled on the top and then they do one that's, they like, they roast
their red peppers and it's heavy with a bunch of herbs like oregano and cilantro and stuff like
that. That one's real good. And then there are other ones just kind of like a whole wheat,
crappy oatmeal tasting thing. Yeah, yeah. Well, yeah, in general, homemade bread is
is pulling nicer than a lot of the sport by the way, as long as they're made properly and stuff.
It's also cheaper than buying the most of the whole grain breads that are sent from major
bakeries. On average, a loaf of bread around here, a good loaf of bread cost in between $3
and $4.50 and you can get this stuff for $2.50. Canadian, yeah, Canadian dollars, I should be
reading. Yeah, Canadian, which is almost the same as US.
Do you, why did I'm from England, but I kind of get to Florida and stuff. I've been to Florida,
and then they're putting off care alone, but it's as bad as far as it's gone.
It's so far to get to USA, but what I'm going to say is obviously being an America, or USA,
and when you cross over to America, or maybe all the other way around possibly even,
do you know, it's a lot of difference between how the countries are, or is it just pretty much
the same, because I mean, with some states, they can be quite a few differences, while apparently
so I'm thinking, yeah, if you go to America or Canada, do you know how much difference,
or is it just like sort of like the same? If I go to say the mainland of Europe, I mean,
it's as well as the world, it'll be different languages, but you get nature in that, but in general,
things can be quite similar too, you get your boat, you have your cars, you have your list, you have your
that, but I mean, what kind of difference do you notice between us, who that's why I mean,
if you get, I mean, depends on which province you cross over into. If you're crossing over into
New Brunswick or Quebec, immediately you'll notice the New Brunswick that all the road signs
and everything are in French and English, and if you go into Quebec, you'll immediately notice
that there's no fucking English anywhere. Oh, yeah, yeah, I mean, actually that's a good one as well,
that reminds me of like here, if you go to Wales, which is actually quite near me, when you cross
over to Wales, yeah, just both islands are in Welsh and English, and then you come back to England
and are in English, and I think, I'm not sure about Scotland, I've been there for a long time,
but I think there are many in English there as well, because, but the Scots, I think they're just
pretty much, just being English now, and they have their own languages, but they don't really
feel in that much, I think now, Wales and Wales, some people, it's very important that they
learn Welsh, and then they Welsh, nothing to schools, I have to teach Welsh, and that's the difference
as well. Yeah, it's, there's a few differences, there, nothing really smacks into you,
this is usually cross the border, other than like the road signs.
When you go into a grocery store, there's a huge difference there, the price is on everything in
Canada, or more expensive, and then there's that lovely sales tax, in the Eastern provinces,
it's significantly higher than it is out here in Alberta. I think New Brunswick is at 13%,
Nova Scotia's at 14, and Newfoundlands at 15%, I think PIs at 13%, as well, 13 or 15, I can't
remember, and then like, compared with Alberta, which is five. When you get, if you, if you
feel dry, if someone's driving a car from England to say, fine, so, well, Wales video on the main
Langer, or something about, I mean, I think one of the first differences for start would be, of course,
that you drive on the right, miles and left, and also, it's done in kilometres per hour, not miles
per hour like UK and America. Oh yeah, I was wondering what those speed limits were, 120.
Yeah, no, it seems a bit high, doesn't it, but yeah, kilometres per hour, so, not it's not as
high, I always will be about the same, but it's just big enough, isn't it? I didn't get pulled over,
but after I was driving for a little while, I was like, man, driving a hundred is really fast,
I don't feel safe doing this. Are you joking or did you actually do this? I actually did that.
I'm on the motorway. Well, it's a two lane highway, the road I was on.
I needed a hundred on that, yeah. Everything got topped out around 110.
Where was that? That was in New Brunswick, coming up the number one.
Where were your new buns? I said off, I said, I think you do it, but you said,
what did you do? I don't know. New buns, where's that? Where were your new buns at? Where's
East Canada, bud? I was able to clean it as well, is that what you're saying? Yeah, all of Canada is
SI units, meters, kilometers, kilos, Celsius. Oh, okay, right. I didn't realize, I didn't know that,
but yeah, that was really good, that would be the same difference that I was meant while I was
talking about as well, but it came to the mainland, do you? Yeah, and I knew this speed limit was
110 K, but I drove 110 miles just because I could. Okay, yeah, although, well, if you go to
here to Sweden by law, or as far as I know, it's still by the one anyway, you have to actually have
the lights on in the car, even in the day when you're driving along. So, and I'm going there with
my family and my mum and stuff, and she's like, does the lights have the lights on? In the past and
stuff like that, but yeah, I think it's still, I think this law still applies today, and so you have to
drive what you like on in the daylight, even if it's a really sunny day or it's really bright and
all the rest of it, you have to drive what you like on in the car. And I think maybe now actually some
of the Swedish cars will automatically put the lights on. You can't sell a car in Canada that
doesn't do that since 2008 or 2009. All right, yeah, I didn't know either, but in the UK on the
other hand, you can drive in the day without lights on, that's fine. So, what's your choice of
preference do you drive with your lights on all the time, even if you have to manually turn them
on or do you live them off? Actually, I don't really drive to be honest, but I've less than before,
etc. But I assume for safety in a way, the Swedish people and I suppose Canadians have it right,
it would probably make sense to have the lights on in the day because you might see the car a bit better,
but on the other hand, it probably won't matter that much in general unless it's dark or dark
enough, but people are going to put lights on only way probably. Yeah, see back where I come from,
if a car was driving down the road with his lights on, it meant that he was having a trouble or
having an emergency. So, when all the people from started moving down south, from up north into my
neck of the woods, and Atlanta started spreading out to where I lived, or traffic from Atlanta
started spreading out to where I lived, people started driving around with their lights on all the
time and I thought people were having all sorts of emergencies all the time. Most of flashing lights,
but yeah. No, it's not flashing lights, like if I was having car trouble or something and I was
driving down the road, driving down the road to my house, and one of my neighbors saw me in my car
with my lights on in the middle of the day, he would stop, turn around, follow me home and be like,
hey, is everything okay? Are you good? But yeah, it was just like an unspoken way to say,
hey, I'm having car trouble or I'm having trouble or get the hell out of my way, I'm in a hurry.
And then a good one actually, you know, we've got the whole idea that like I'll even get electric cars
one day, or it's going to be a mainstream bottle of Lionel, or all these those cars that I think
they'd basically used like the cycle, the food waste or whatever it was. My name is Hydra
Cars, all these different car types, that's supposed to be more environmentally friendly, but
a good one with electric car, of course, is that, now apparently electric car is, or yeah,
I mean, I see them on TV, this BBC click and stuff like that, well yeah, on that really.
I remember they were going on about how it was, how the electric car actually very, very quiet,
so you wouldn't really know that electric car is coming along down the road,
unless it made a noise, so there was the whole thing about like, what noise should the electric
car make, and so yeah, there's that as well. That's where if they get mainstream or not,
and we get electric cars and things like that, possibly in the next few years, that's for the whole
futuristic flying car thing and all that, I don't think that's coming any time soon if it all really.
Well, you know, the flux at capacity and fusion reactors are just around the corner, man.
Yeah, we're going to, we've got space travel, and we're going to all go to Mars, and
right, well, we'll see, but I suppose, although if the world keeps on getting polluted,
like it is at the moment, you know, if that keeps on happening, so global warming thing is true,
for example, and where is it apparent here, you know, then well yeah, it might be, it's pretty good
to kind of research to see if we can move to another planet and live that.
Yeah, I'm not a real big fan of tree huggers. Tree huggers make my life miserable, because they
they have a pretty big impact on the companies that I work for and what they decide to do.
But what type of companies is that? I work for big oil.
Oh, I see, right, yeah. Yeah, I see, you know, you see, you know, yeah, that makes sense, you know,
so keen on these really environments, environment people.
Not at all, and usually most of the stuff I hear in the media is just so wrong, it's not even funny.
Such as, such as there's massive pools of toxic waste that are left behind after a mining
crew goes through. Yeah, I think I'm not bad mining, but I think that doesn't cause you
not true. Well, I'm not mining after after a well drilling crew goes through. What happens when
you drill a well is you use water to cool the bit as it's drilling. So as you're drilling down,
a bunch of sludge comes up in the sludge is mud, water, and a small mixture of oil as the
the bit bores through all the rock and dirt and crap that it has to get through to hit the actual
oh, excuse me to get to hit the actual well. And then that water is captured, transported,
and taken to the water that they test it on site, and the water that doesn't have any oil is dumped
in a retaining pool. And then anything that does have oil contaminants in it, and they can
tell just right as they're drilling as soon as, because it changes color and stuff. And
the water that in mud and sludge that is contaminated gets stuck in barrels and cleaned up by
guys on the ground like actually they go around and clean up the mud. And that's transported and
taken care of. Usually it's refined out because waste not want not. Okay, okay, well, I will
buy that sample if you got them. Other samples? Oh, shoot. Now it's extremely detrimental
to the environment to have all the heavy machinery and stuff going through on top of all the
the frozen bogs and whatnot. The piece of land that I'm working on this year
was last drilled on 25 years ago. Like we're going over the top of old well sites,
because for some reason all the wells have filled back up with oil and we're looking for better
spots to drill. Like the stuff was bone dry 15 years ago.
But you said, yeah, but I mean, sorry, the media is saying that stuff was wrong.
Well, they say that after the heavy machinery and everything goes through,
it leaves massive scarring on the environment and it's so hard to recover. And
well, it looks pretty recovered to me. Well, it's not oil, but I mean, what about
logging when you're going to, you know, people kind of cut down the rainforest and, you know,
to make paper and make money and so on and all that. What are your opinions on that? Do you
think it's like a bad thing that rainforest keeps on getting cut down like that? Or do you think it's
okay? No, no, I'm not in the rainforest. I really don't have an opinion on that one. That's
for those folks that are local to that part of the world to decide on. If cutting down the
rainforest is destroying their homes and stuff, then it's probably not a good idea. But if it's not,
so what's the big deal? Well, if there's an oil spill in the sea, because of, you know,
because the bear crashed into something or whatever the reason, I mean, and then you get all these,
was it all going to lay the place and do that? But what do you think about that?
There's always oil leaking into the sea all the time. It's just sometimes it's massive
quantities. Like, the oil spill is just a larger than usual quantity of oil that is already there.
The sea naturally takes care of itself. Are there any remnants of that oil spill that BP had a year
or two ago? That's the one I was kind of thinking of when I was asking that question, but yeah,
that was one example. Fiend others in the past as well. Okay, what about the big huge tanker?
Back in 85 in Alaska, the Exxon tanker. Is there any remnants of that?
I don't really know about that one, but I guess not a such, if it's not really been taught about
since then. They talk about it a little every once in a while. It was, it was, had a huge impact
on the environment evidently. It's so huge that they're still talking about it today,
just like the BP oil spill. It did so much damage. Where's the damage?
Right, okay, yeah. That's what I was kind of, but so you think there isn't, you think that when
this has a lot of damage or left from these oil spills, it's not really true. Is that what you're
saying, isn't it? The damage is minimal to, sure, a bunch of sea creatures lose their lives,
but it's just like a tsunami hit in Thailand. A bunch of people are going to die.
What's the difference in between a man-made disaster and a natural disaster?
Depends on the disaster, isn't it? What can do?
No, generally, what's the difference in between a man-made disaster and a natural disaster?
Well, yeah, okay, both who make damage if that's, I mean, that's an answer, it's funny, yeah.
Yeah. They both cause massive amounts of damage. There's not really any difference other than
people think that just because it's a man-made disaster that it was somehow preventable,
the only way that it would have been preventable is to have never had the technology to create the
disaster. Yeah. As we get more advanced, we're going to start creating more and more disasters
because shit blows up. It really, really irks me when people are going on about how we need to
control man-made disasters and how we shouldn't have things that do advanced technology because,
and then they keep on using their iPads.
Yes, mobile, I and the iPad, they didn't want to control this and then they still use their
technologies. Was that what you mean? Yeah, they're winding, bitching, and complaining about
the advanced technology that's destroying the world and they're contributing to it by continuing
to consume products of the technology. Well, yeah, there's a lot of electronic waste. I think
that's what you mean as well, when people get enough of their phone or their iPad or whatever it is
and they think, oh, we need the new one, when the old device is working well enough still and
it goes into landfill sites or whatever and a lot of times it doesn't really get recycled or
whatever. It doesn't go through the whole removing electronic waste properly thing as well,
so it just goes into landfill sites or whatever. The only green activists that actually catch my
attention are the hippies that have their own forms and they're actually trying to
dissociate themselves completely from the things that they don't think should exist. They're
actually trying. Those folks got my respect. So some actually some people will, well, some people
would basically use nature and living somewhere, you know, little hut or somewhere in the forest,
let's say, without electricity, without water, without technology, without all that kind of stuff.
What if it is that the kind of people you mean you would like to think how respectful or what did you
mean? Yeah, they're advocating against the use of, you know, the things that are destroying their
world or the things that they believe are destroying their world and they're not using them,
they're not partaking in them and they're creating their own, they're building their own
ecosystem basically and economy just by being out there and doing their own thing.
Well, yeah, but given up on their own tech and so on, but yeah.
And they're giving up things like advanced medical treatment and stuff like that as well. I mean,
their mortality rates are a little bit higher. If you had to go six months without,
without, you know, without, without computers and all that kind of TVs and all the rest of it,
you know, do you think you would just go and be like, oh, okay, I'll just do all this other stuff
for it would be like a problem to not have access to all this stuff, you know, for you. I mean,
for me, it drove me nuts. I would hate it. I like being able to communicate with other people.
I like being able to read stuff on the internet and I like to be able to play with computers.
Yeah, yeah, same thing. I mean, the week with, you know, without internet access and
or week or so depending on where you are. So I mean, yeah, it can be nice to have a breaking
get away from all that switch off. But I think, well, I think in general, a lot of people,
a lot of people are very connected to their, their computer of all the internet and they're
clearly known on TV and all the rest of it. That it's, it's really difficult to like get away from
that for long enough unless you're going somewhere unless you're like going with someone doing something
different than whether, you know, my job, my job is extremely remote. The only place I have
internet is sometimes in camp and sometimes I have cell service, but that's really spotty.
And it's usually extremely crappy satellite internet that's been repeated 600 times. So you're
only getting maybe a tiny fraction of the original bandwidth of the connection. And during a day,
when I'm not in camp, I have no service. I don't get text messages. I don't get phone calls.
I don't get emails that's completely silent as far as communication other than a radio.
What did you mean repeat it the entire repeated?
The way they set it up in the camp is the wireless, they use Wi-Fi routers to repeat the signal.
Every time you repeat the signal, you lose 50% of the bandwidth.
Repeat as in use it again. What does that mean?
Well, it's just like using a Wi-Fi repeater, a signal booster.
All right, okay, yeah. Well, anyway, yeah, but you said you're like car from this,
and that's a little bit different because then you're obviously working and doing all this
like other stuff. But by choice, if you could go on holiday somewhere and you're going to be
disconnected for a long time, would that be an issue or wouldn't it be? Or six months, I think
that your answer was yes, but for just a week or two, would it really matter if it was an issue?
Or wouldn't it matter?
Depends on where I'm going. If I'm going to visit my family, yeah, it would be an issue.
If I'm going to the beach or the mountains somewhere, no, it wouldn't be an issue.
Family say you can say in touch with other people as well, or what do you mean?
Family so I can go hide in a corner and escape my family.
Oh, okay. I'm extremely anti-social.
If you're in a social group, how Chris's USA is back?
You like my name?
And you're really quiet again.
What are you really quiet?
Chris, it's almost like Chris Susa.
Yeah, I think I know you've done like Chris USA, but with the capital S at the end of Chris as well.
Yeah, it's physical to put something in.
I mean, Chris is probably taken on this thing or possibly, and it's not
leaving the most exciting thing to put, is it?
I get disconnected just now, sorry.
I don't know, just saying something about Chris, the USA, I get to do something,
and Chris is probably taken this network or possibly, and it's not really the most exciting thing to put, is it?
So that works, Chris, USA, or Cree at S-U-S-Aven.
I was trying to copy Susa, Susa.
Yeah, I see, right, yeah, I see Susa, or Susa when it's called.
It's accepted.
Yeah, that makes sense.
It makes me instead of an A.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I get it now.
Do you use that distribution, or do you just like it all?
Actually, right now, I'm using Windows because Linux doesn't support my game that I play,
but I have worked on learning Arch.
What game?
The older public, the MMO.
That's a Star Wars one.
Yep.
That you use OpenC, you see it?
Oh, but I've used that all the way, you can just try to get it to us now.
I just use Virtual Machines, but I've actually had Fedora 17, Fedora 18,
and Fedora 20 Online computers, my main operating system for about two months each at a time.
Save, see, okay, but yeah, so you use Windows as your main operating system,
normally, is that what we're saying?
Yeah, and then I use VirtualBox to do my Linux stuff.
All right, you've got it the other way around, bud.
You should be using Linux as your main machine and VirtualBox to do the Windows stuff.
I actually tried that and it runs a lot crap here through a virtual machine.
You probably need to get a really beefy, accelerated Nvidia card.
I have a one gigabyte Nvidia card.
Actually, it's P and Y, but...
Yeah, using, yeah, I kind of agree with, um,
Cable there, it's kind of, sort of doing the other way around, but on your
other hand, um, whatever work for you, I guess.
Although we had a little discussion earlier about trying out distributions in, um,
VirtualBox and like, if that was any good or not, if you should do it that way,
and I mentioned to how I actually were testing, and that can be done as well,
like, quality assurance with distros, but you have to do them real hard, or as well.
But, um, uh, and I think, I think a virtual machine actually, um, you, you do get,
you can get quite a close experience to the physical install, like what you would have had,
but it kind of depends on your hardware, some extent, like how much RAM you have,
possibly to say how much, you know, quite a virtual team that's up and things like that.
I have six gigs of RAM, however, I have a dual-core processor,
and my RAM is only 400 MHz RAM.
Yeah, I mean, yeah, VirtualBox machines kind of give you a feel of the operating system, but,
but to have a proper idea, a 1% idea, what really is, like, you kind of need to install on a
physical machine, but pending on the computer, and what somebody's doing with it and things like that.
I mean, I'm running on a virtual, virtual machine, and then having it on the computer for real could,
um, not really make much difference. I get, um, pending on how people are using it and
what's being useful, and the hardware computer, if you get what I mean.
So here's the question I have. If I set up just the Linux kernel
with KVM and all that stuff, installed so I can set up virtual machines, well, first of all,
is that possible to set it up just so you have KVM, and so you can have virtual machines?
I don't know from there and install Windows on top of that.
I don't, I don't really use KVM, I use VirtualBox, and I've used, um,
really, where I've played it before and, uh, but, um, I think, but yeah, it'll be similar, and I think,
I think you can pretty much just do a virtualization computer, like you're saying with KVM,
but I'd like to use KVM, look at that. Where you're getting down to the hardware level of things
like that, uh, you'd probably be looking more towards XEM instead of KVM.
Zen?
Yeah, bud. Oh, Zen, Zen, Zen, but I'm not sure Zen has support for Windows.
No, KVM's got the Windows support, and honestly, KVM is a ton better than Zen overall.
You just need to make sure you get it set up and, and tweak it to make it work better.
But it's possible just to have the Linux kernel and boot VMs,
boot from, good to VMs from that, and it's absolutely graphics.
Absolutely. We do, uh, where I work, we actually do KVM servers where everything is,
it's almost like having a thin client of the, of the, um, hypervisor OS, and everything's running
in, in K, in KVM virtuals.
Yeah, so using Windows as a host in this case, so you, well, I came, I need it for KVM,
whatever, but yeah, you could basically do your virtualization computer with all these different
virtual machines, including Windows, like you're asking, as far as I know.
There was an OS, uh, somebody, I can't remember if it was on HPR, or if it was on TWAT,
and it was called, uh, bare metal, and it was specifically for, um, running multiple operating systems.
Also, also, with virtual machines, of course, um, the event, when it comes to school, I mean,
well, yeah, I mean, virtual, well, two things here, actually. One, you, you could have it,
I'm thinking virtual boxes, so obviously KVM is going to be a bit different, and,
being, well, they're being with, being where has a VMDK file, just to look, as it's hard,
it's going to be where the configuration file from, I remember, but one thing in here is, um,
with, when it comes to security, of course, I'll use Windows in the sample, because people only
think of viruses, Windows, byware, and all the rest of it. So, of course, if, if you have your,
if you get a virtual machine of Windows, in this case, infected with, with a virus,
um, then it's obviously infected and all that, but you could just,
but you decide how to do the whole B install thing, like if you have it on a physical computer,
but then you, then you can have your little anti-virus, so you, you know,
reinstall, and then it should all be gone, and all the smell were poppy, but,
what I'm thinking, I've done this before, well, I mean, yeah, what have I done it before?
Anyway, what I'm, what I'm going to say is, um, when you, when you have a virtual machine,
you get kind of security advantages in the way, or depending on what you, on how you use it,
and what you do, because what you can do is you can then copy the, um,
clean install the Windows or whatever it is, and then just start over like that, or
you can, of course, use a snapshot in virtualization software, and you just go back to that,
so that's like a good advantage of virtual machine when it comes to it, I just said as well.
What I would do just in case, you know, as I would set it up to, um,
I would set it up so that I would clone, after I have everything that I want installed installed,
I would clone it. Yeah, yeah, well, you'd clone it.
In case I could get a virus, just delete that and reopen the clone.
Well, yeah, but that's more for a phase of going through, I think, when you, like,
clone the disc or the partition, bugs and the virtual machine, but same kind of idea, really.
Well, they've seen that, I, when I got, um, well, they've seen that, with my network, I,
I, um, before I put a Linux, before I put, um, my dear, two on it in this case, actually,
and then later, per dear, for anyway, before I put Linux on my, um,
network, I actually technically came with Linux, but I didn't, uh,
enabled that, the instrument on my OS, but anyway, um, some of you basically said to me,
you know, just think you should probably back up your hard disk, just in case, whatever,
and so I used one of those, um, I used a fields clonezilla, yeah, clonezilla,
and I backed up to drive and all that and landed up with whatever files and I'm a bit like,
thinking like, how would I actually restore, how would I actually restore from this backup
I made, I didn't really, and we done that kind of stuff, 430 million, stand that, but, um,
well, I can say, well, maybe that was the thing I was going to say, um,
yeah, you can, you can, you can, you can me store from your backups, or, I think I've lost the
point I was going to make, I can't, I can't, I can't think properly, um, I think one of the problems,
though, is the game itself lags because of their servers.
It takes it like that.
We're going to get through a virtual, their game server lags.
Wait, well, we're playing it through virtual.
Game server for what?
We're going to lag more.
Well, he said game server, didn't he?
Yeah, their game server.
Older public.
Yeah, game is pretty lacking on when the, oh my Linux Windows has kind of gotten them beat on that.
Oh, we had this, actually, we had a bit of a discussion in my game,
but it never was that earlier.
Or maybe even as part of the four new years possibly even, actually, anyway.
And there was a, I remember this discussion.
And basically the idea that I figured out about, well, I think it was about market share as
well and now saying to me, like, oh, and people think that you need to have all these games
for Linux and these commercial games and some people think it's the way to win people over,
if you have all these games available.
So commercial games for the real one, I'm a bundle or whatever it is.
But and then the guy who I was trying to do was basically saying as well.
But no, you don't need to do that because you have, if you look around, if you want to look
around, actually, you, that are loads of open source games are good.
But you know, you have to kind of have the motivation to go out there and look around.
I mean, you're starting your distro repost or start and see what's actually available in the
case of the Ubuntu or even here for that matter.
A lot of, I think most distros have a lot of games available in the repost themselves.
But I know for, I know that there are quite a few other games out there that are
aren't going to be in the repost.
I've, I've, I've these distros that are quite good or, or if you,
um, there's actually a game I'm, yeah, sort of, sort of a game I'm thinking of
meaning to install and try out. But anyway, um, if you look around,
past the repost as well and go to, I don't know, SourceForge or those kind of sites as well,
for example, you'll, you know, there are loads of open source games out there.
So the idea that you actually need to have all these commercial games and that
damn any good games, one commercial game, did I look for five toy games?
That's probably mean actually, yeah.
All the idea that, that you need this and that and not any good games,
I hope is also the next that, that, you know, that isn't really true.
I'm sure if you look around closely enough, you'll find quite a few games that,
that you'll like. Or anyway, by no means am I saying there aren't any good open source games
because I know there are, just, I need, I want this game.
And this game is not available to work properly, natively on the internet.
All right, yeah, well, like I do, there's kind of a general thing,
but yeah, what I mean is people won't take the games and in certain cases, they think like,
oh, you know, that's not really good open source games and there's, there's not that,
but what I'm following playing really. So that's like, I'm going to have these games,
all my list is true, then there's no point when that list is true,
I might as well use Windows or, you know, I mean people in general.
Oh, I played World of Warcraft on Linux from beta all the way to
wrath of the Lich King. How much did you have to tweak it at first to get it to actually work,
though? Until release came out, I had customer support from Blizzard.
Really?
Yep, as soon as, as soon as the release came out, the Linux customer support was gone in like a month.
Oh, I didn't realize that there was that kind of support.
It was just more of just to make sure that, you know, somebody with half a brain could get it up
and running online. But as far as having an actual native client, I don't think they have one,
no, there was one, there was never a native client for Linux in beta or anything else.
The support was just to get it to run in the line.
No, this was during the Blizzard beta for World of Warcraft,
that you could send in questions and bug reports of stuff that happened in wine and find out
if it was just a problem with wine or if it was a problem with the game.
All right, yeah, that sounds okay. Although that brings up,
although we're talking about wine, I'm thinking of something else now and this is a good one,
our stage, a good kind of topic. Wait, wait, pause really quick. No matter what people say
and what people do or don't want to admit, wine is not the same thing as having an actual native
client. Even though I've heard people call it native, it's still not native because if you're
calling those questions to get something to work, then it's not native. Wine is not native. Wine
is an implementation of the Windows API. It's not Windows. It's almost an emulator even though
they don't want to admit it. I wouldn't even call it an emulator. It's just an implementation of
API calls. Yeah, my thing was thought of to do with what was just said here, but what I think
was going to say is actually, I'm thinking, okay, native Linux programs, listen that, right?
And then wine, running programs in wine, I'm thinking, does it really make that much different?
I mean, from use the point of view, not the technical side like you're running this in a thing
that's technically Windows and rather than this native thing, I might use the point of view.
Does it, you know, if you can have a program that works really well in wine,
and because there was a native one in this case, or whatever, or even maybe even the native version,
you feel like running in wine and whatever, from use the point of view, when you're switching
between a native program and one that's running in wine, just it, I'm thinking, in people's opinions
here, I mean, does it really make a difference, you think, for the user? Because I remember actually
in the bunch who opened week in the past, the high top half of a native thing, and had a wine session,
and this same kind of question came up to the guy running that session, and I think he basically
said at the time that, from a user point of view, no, it doesn't really matter that a program
isn't really native for Linux, as long as it works well in wine, because then it looks the same
and it works, because, you know, then it works, and you can man that on the next, basically.
Does that guy run the years?
No, that was just an old, the bunch who opened week session, and there comes a mind more saying this.
Well, yeah, he's wrong. If you're running a game in Windows, and then you switch to Linux,
and you run the game in Linux, you're going to take a huge performance hit, almost immediately,
because it's not native. If you're running something like Internet Explorer and Linux,
yeah, you can probably get around that. Now, as computer hardware has gotten way beefier
than it was, say, six years ago, yeah, you can probably get away with a little bit more now
than you could then, but you can't get away with running anything current that requires any type
of 3D graphics.
Yeah, but okay, sure, but I've been up to use wine, obviously, myself here, and now as I'm
sure you don't have it, well, I'm probably most people are going to listen to this.
If anyone's actually going to listen to us now, but from a user point of view, surely
my blush is my point. If you're running a native program, or Firefox, whatever it is,
or you're running a program in wine, then surely, for a lot of users, it wouldn't really matter
that much, as long as the performance, as long as performance is working well enough
in wine. So, in that case, running certain programs in wine is sort of okay, because
as long as performance is okay, there's nothing we want to agree with me here. I mean, obviously,
I would prefer to use native programs, as I'm sure most of you would as well, but some people
would be puffed if they're okay with running their own wine as long as the performance was okay,
and they wouldn't really care too much about native programs, so in cases, even, because they
just don't want to program wine. You have to compromise so much about Linux, you have to install
proprietary drivers, you have to do so much crap, and basically set your system up to break.
The best way I found to do it was to basically just dual boot and have the same home directory with
different, I'd use the same OS, usually archer gen 2, and I dual boot in between 64-bit and 32-bit,
and I would also have like my wine install, and everything was tweaked just for wine, had my
proprietary drivers, all that fud, and it was, it's a royal pain in the butt, because there is no
simple, just do this, and it will work. Every time you get an update, something breaks.
Oh yeah, I mean, wine is a bit, I think, what's the word saying that's hit and mess, I think,
it's sort of about luck, it's like, you can install whatever program it is, and if you're lucky,
it just works, if not, you've got to configure this and that, and then it might work better, but
that's the one kind of disadvantage of wine, from what I remember, but, but I just, but I'm
surely, surely having, with a lot of certain people, which was my point, having, having a program in wine,
I don't mind, okay, we're together enough for performance, so of course, because otherwise I can be like,
oh, this is rubbish, I'll just use windows, but surely that's better, and in certain people,
it's sort of not having that, that program available at all in the looks, in any shape or form,
there's no, there's no native one, there's no way to get money in wine, it's just not available.
Do you, do you agree with me here, and obviously depends on program and person in this case as well?
From a non-technical point of view, you probably write, however,
when you can, it's better, sorry, say that again. Am I breaking up?
No, I kind of interrupt you then, and here you probably say, say what you're saying again.
From a non-technical point of view, if you can just install wine,
and coming from a window's background, it's a lot harder to say than just to do,
or to, it's a lot harder to do than just say.
Has this used in just what?
It, using wine for a person coming from windows,
it's a lot harder to use than just say, go do it.
My egg, it's got to be installed, and then you go live and store your,
when you install it inside wine, if that's what you mean.
Yeah, sorry, I'm trying to raid right now, and
Anton, at the same time, it is hard for me to do that.
Yeah, good luck with that. Raid, he's playing his game,
addict. How's that math treating your buddy?
You must be button spamming.
Let's make fun of him.
I'm not button spamming, I'm spamming buttons.
What about, actually, did you ever talk about wine,
and with on, with on virtual machines?
Right, we've done, we've done all that, I'm sure, but,
actually, what about this whole, this like,
streaming, or maybe the cloud, or whatever, you know,
actually, well there's two things here, really.
One is where you could, like, stream or
connect to your, another computer,
or go as a computer with your Windows program,
and then stream it over to your Linux sister,
and then use it in there,
and then the other one is, of course, this whole cloud gaming thing,
where you can, you know, you can connect to your
Windows Steam game, or whatever it is, and
and play that while you're a Linux sister,
for another computer or server.
But what are your, what are people's opinions on that?
Do you think that's a good thing that you can stream?
They can access your Windows apps, or Windows programs,
in that kind of way as well, or do you think, like,
there's an important really doing that,
it should always be needed, just,
but then you, one, you can, the actual computer on,
and things like that.
Two things to say on that.
One, did you know that you can stream X-11
across the network,
than been doing that for years?
Two, you can't play games on it.
Yeah, you can do, like, you can do DNC,
and, for your next, and things like that,
and, I mean, on X-11, or ever show.
No, X-11, like, you can stream straight X-11,
and it's the fastest way to do DNC, or anything like that.
It's not technically simple,
and it's definitely not secure,
but it's the fastest.
But I was saying Windows programs,
so, as well, so, yeah.
You know, but with the, with the Windows stuff,
you can't play games all across an internet connection.
It's not, it won't work for you.
You said the host machine has to be able to play the game,
and the viewing machine has to be able to render
what's coming from the host machine.
Well, yeah, but I thought you could do it from,
maybe I'm probably a gamer, you know.
I thought you could actually, or possibly,
stream somebody's Windows games now, or it was coming,
and they were going to come to the next,
as well, not just Windows to Windows.
No, it's schema-s.
Well, yeah, possibly that, as well, yeah.
Yeah, probably schema-s, that's the case.
The problem with schema-s is,
why would I want to buy another $500 computer
to stream my game to a TV when I'm already using a TV?
Because the $500 computer is going to be cheaper
than the $700 PlayStation 4.
But I have a regular computer,
and I'm playing on a TV, that's what I'm saying.
I'm playing on a 32-inch flat screen right now.
Why would I buy a steam box to stream it to a TV
when I can already plug it into a TV?
Yeah, my monitor is 55-inch, or 55-inch LED or LCD.
Or just for a more basic argument.
Why buy the steam box to play Windows games
when you can already...
when you can already hook a Windows PC up to a TV anyway?
Yeah, yeah, that's what you mean.
But this is steam-s, I mean, yeah, there's a little bit of map,
but this is going to, like, shoot,
many ways. I'm going to put a big turn into what I want more
as I guess to run it up to very...
But yeah.
Well, usually I find that people who game in Windows
and people who game in Linux are completely different.
People who game in Windows usually either follow a specific genre
or a specific company,
whereas people who game in Linux just
kit everything underneath the sun.
I, under that, I would classify myself as a Windows gamer
because Blizzard makes it, I'll play it.
Yeah, they're not gaming.
Some people actually, they kind of...
that's their sort of their passion to...
I feel like they're passionate.
They're, like, interested to, like, basically find out what you can...
Especially with the whole idea that we're talking about earlier
about people thinking, you know, there's no great games
or nothing else.
You got to run Windows games or know that, that we're talking about earlier.
Especially with that kind of idea.
There are some people who want to kind of...
I think at least personally, they want to
challenge that idea and they want...
they know that actually a Linux distro can be really good for gaming
or as long as you're willing to find the game to start
and install them and all that.
And so, these people will...
they will spend time and they will look around,
they'll find these Linux games, they'll install them
and they will sample all these games
and they'll obviously play them as well here and there
and, you know, and that's the interest
because really a Linux box or Linux distro,
if you want to turn it into a games machine,
you know, you can do that.
Okay, you might not be playing these games
that are really popular with mainstream
because they're in the Windows a lot of the time,
but you'll have all these other games out there
and so on that you can play.
So you can have...
You can have...
you can have a game's box, definitely.
So, yeah, you can, but why would you want it?
Here's the thing I say.
If Linux...
if a game developers started making native clients
for Linux that I'd hold heartily,
not using Steam, but actual native clients.
I'd hold heartily changed to Linux.
I would pay more than double retail price
for a game that I wanted if it ran on Linux.
That hell, I'd pay triple.
If I could get Diablo 3 to run native
on my little laptop here under Linux
and under any Linux that I wanted it to
without having to install freaking proprietary drivers,
I would pay 200 bucks for it today, right now.
I don't know if I go that far, but still,
I see what you're saying.
I don't play lots of games.
I just play a few that I actually want to play
and the ones that I really enjoy,
I would pay a lot to play them.
So, do you play wow still?
Only on a private server.
What private server?
Did you say what private server?
Yeah.
Uh, molten wow.
What, what is it? Is it a
I play cataclysm.
But it's uh, it's lichkin cataclysm.
And I think they're, they're talking about
implementing uh, vanilla.
I play a vanilla one.
Well, I haven't played on it for a while,
but it's called, I think it's paronic
or Phoenix or something like that.
I don't know if you've heard of it.
No, I haven't heard it too many.
Okay, I want to go back.
Yeah, well, um, Chris said about, uh,
if the game developers make native games for Linux,
not requiring steam.
Now, he would possibly go to Linux.
Um, um, I'm sure he's also referring to the,
obviously, the games he wants to play as well.
Not just any game.
But, um,
No, any games,
but any game
plus the games I play.
I'll plus the games play.
Okay, fine, fine, enough.
Um, but um,
the humble bundle actually is,
is, is, is kind of a good example.
Okay, sometimes you could buy these bundles
and they just give me,
you see them keys really in the soundtracks.
So,
so like he said, not that,
but that time,
and sometimes the bundles are only for windows
and maybe all Mac as well.
But, but they have,
they have been putting in quite a,
I mean, buy and humble bundle for
most of them for,
oh, I don't know,
probably about,
what about three years now?
Actually, it comes from, correct?
You know, it's been around quite well now.
And,
occasionally I've not bought one because of whatever,
but point is, um,
the, the, uh,
you know, because I missed one or whatever.
Anyway, point is, um,
well, what I've noticed is, is when they, uh,
when they, uh,
that they have been actually putting in quite a few games
in the humble bundle that had
a native Linux, uh,
download and talking about tar.g's,
gz, or something like that.
Not just a Steam key.
So that's happening here and there.
And if you, then they've got a humble store,
more recently and, um,
again, some of those games will have
the, uh, native, um,
uh, download.
But yeah, I think, uh,
I don't really,
I'm not leaving Steam yet.
I should,
I should believe it,
because all these games are bought and so on.
But, um,
but, um, I think,
I think what they kind of
do is they kind of, um,
this sort of is,
does your son of say,
oh, instead of doing a native download
with a tar.g said,
or have they, a lot of them just
do Steam to, like, kind of,
get out of that.
And then people, a lot of people are happy enough
to, um,
buy that on Steam,
because I just want to play the game.
I mean, I'm,
I'm not really a gamer,
so I'm sure Chris,
so everyone can comment on this.
But, um,
is that, is that what you meant as well?
By like, um,
as long as he was switched,
as long as the native download,
because otherwise it's just using
Steam to, to do what I just said,
or what did you mean?
Well, like, Steam,
in my, from my point of view on Linux,
is kind of like,
another version of wine.
Yes, the games run better,
but still it's about the same thing.
Yeah, um,
yes, Steam kind of streams the game,
doesn't it?
Is that, I think?
Oh, I'll be right back, guys.
Gotta go check my laundry.
Yes, Steam kind of streams the game,
doesn't it?
Oh, bruv.
I thought the games run completely natively.
But anyway, dude,
for you, let's talk with proper downloads,
and not just Steam keys,
then that's good,
because otherwise,
you,
otherwise it's kind of
making you Steam to play the game,
doesn't it?
Which kind of defeats the whole
point of having the freedom to
eliminate a download?
My, my problem with the whole
proprietary thing,
is if it's proprietary and good,
I don't have a problem with it.
No, you know, that's it.
Yeah, that's okay.
My case, I'm building this green head,
but, um,
yeah, it's a little like a personal toy,
so that, what software,
you run, and what type of software,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
or,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and
and,
and,
and,
and,
and
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
and,
one of them is exactly about that, that it's okay to sell free software, you can sell it
to make money because it's not really, it's not about being free as in price, it's about,
it's all about being free as in software free as in what that means, so yeah, you can sell
you can put a CD in sell to CD or whatever you want to do, that's fine, but like I said,
it's just like a choice, if you want to run, if you want to do a program and you want
to make it close source or you want to use it or whatever, it's all the, it's a choice
as a developer really, someone's still here, man, I'm here, yeah, he's going to, I'm just
kind of still trying to talk and be with the same time, we've got someone else here that
bit weasel, are you in here before, yeah, I was in here before, I grew a different name,
I would eat with a different name, yeah, the, the other Canadian, I think, cool, something
like that, yeah, different name, so what does it feel to use then, bit weasel or what's
your actual name? I use for door, 20, what's your actual name, what's your real name?
Eric? Let it matter, what was that? Eric, Eric, why don't you door over, there's people
on the door, should all the rest of it, but, why you on the door? I mean, what, yeah, why
I just found that it's easy to use, it's stable, the packages are relatively new and fresh.
Eric, yeah, that place to make this phrase, I've used days as a trace, I've quite a few
sills, I've started using those, and now I'm into this, but you won, but, you know, my
dear destroyer, but I'm, yeah, need a second name, just on the half an hour. Half an hour
for what? The next date of the second January, you know, time zones. Oh, the thing with the
countdown thing is still rolling? No, no, no, no, that was, that was done, that's done,
this, this, this is just like extra thing, but it's just been turned into a really long,
long one this time. How many hours has it been? Yes. 39. Who said 39? Me. No, not quite, I
think you're fully joking, as well as the 49. 42. No, actually, about 37. No, no, no, no,
I meant the extra thing itself. So, yeah, for the whole thing, sure, it's probably been about
what you said, but for the extra thing, how long has it been? It's been about 10 to 11 hours.
Yeah, nearly 12 hours. I would know what the porting will say. Pardon me, were you asking if we're
going to use this one? I asked if are they usually this one? No, I think last year, some people
hung around for a couple of hours after, after the show, maybe two or three hours, but normally not
this long, normally not this long. I think pretty much what happened was a number of people came in
right before the end of this one because it was actually early enough in the morning that most
people could actually get up, but not too early. So, a bunch of people hung out afterwards. So,
like me and several other people went back to bed and we just left out recorders running and
people have just been going ever since. Is this going to be uploaded the whole thing?
I don't know about the after show stuff. Definitely the first 26 hours will.
I think the extra stuff is going off too as well. How much does 26 hour audio thing take? How much space?
It's actually not too bad. I've been recording in FLAQ and I think I figured out it was like 5.8 or 6 gig.
That's it. You know, you consider that basically it's mostly just people talking and over mumble,
which is just a little bit better than like cell phone quality. So, it's not real high band with
or anything. It's not real high signal. The quality is setting the jump.
Well, it's actually some of the best. Actually, some of the best discussions. Wow, and the
so-called laughter stuff. Yeah, I don't know what will happen to the after show stuff. It depends
on the images to actually make it like filler stuff. And what I believe we're kind of sitting
as like extra episodes in the queue. There is nothing to run. Let's go ahead and pop these out.
Well, yeah, that works, I guess. It will last a lot longer that way as well, actually.
Yeah. Well, yeah. Plus, this wasn't really like a coordinated show or anything. So,
it's not like part of the actual countdown and not doing all the time zones and stuff.
What show do you get it? Guys, do.
Which what do we do?
Well, I'm on Colonel Panagogcast and I do my own show called Three Brawl Mix, which is a music show.
And this is HPR, so this will all be on Hacker Public Radio. So, a number of different shows.
And I've been on guests on the tech bikes and querians. And I've invited this last year,
so I'm out there again. And that's it, really. Are you two on the show as well? Or do you do one?
Who?
You and Chris.
Oh no, I'm on any show. Well, well, other than now I'm on here during this. And the no, not really.
I mean, if by initial you mean just going to the mumble of a yes, if you mean like hosted, then no.
Well, yeah, it's busy for me both. If you've been a guest on the show, I said I'm, I don't
have to show, but I've been a guest on two and I've been on this twice. So, about for you too.
Hello.
Well, right now I'm on this and I've been on during the next one plugged at Jupiter Broadcasting.
Right. What about you, Chris?
Just this one and Jupiter Broadcasting stuff. Yes.
It's going quite quiet, isn't it? Yep.
Probably because people, uh, about a lot of people have gone now anyway.
Yeah, I think I might cut the recording in 20 minutes or so. It seems like there's not a whole lot
left. They're not going on. Yeah, I was sort of thinking something like that as well. Maybe
the recording should stop in about in about 20 minutes or so. It'll be just a second here.
It lessenably starts an awesome trap off, of course, but it seems it's pretty much dying out now.
But although if it does stop in about 20 minutes or so, then we've got the whole of the UK anyway.
And in the first as well, but called it, huh? And I got something on there.
Well, we have 12 hours after the officials show too, so it'd be 6 p.m. and they said,
and at 6 a.m. my time. Yeah, um, yeah, and it would be 12 hours of aftershare as well.
And it's not too crazy to release it all as well.
With the aftershare as well, I mean. Well, it'll get cut down too because of all of blank spaces.
Oh, yeah.
Actually, Eric, are you? No, that's police. No, no, somebody else. He was on Crobin's called Eric.
I think I think, and that's it's you, but I don't think it is.
Sorry, miss what you said there. No, I'm just thinking Eric, that was an Eric called
Crobin's for a bit, but I think that's somebody else. Not not this Eric.
Actually, who's left here now? What does it mean? Sanchez, Chaser.
I'm here. I'm just in the middle of gaming.
I think Cobra 2 just stepped away for a few of my own chaters here too.
Yeah, I'm helping people in IRC.
Yeah, it's fully killed. It's often been about 20 minutes or so, like he said,
because there's not much to put in anymore, really.
That's what for these thing is.
Well, of course, Cobra comes back and now it'll start all over again.
So I'm back. It's starting all over again.
Actually, I was talking about cutting the recording and at least from my side in about 15 minutes or so.
Oh, well, have fun. Ken's still recording.
Yeah, he was going to cut his later tonight too. I said originally, I might wait till about 10
if it kept going, but it depends on how much is how much is going on.
I don't know. I heard some of my dog on just a minute ago. I hadn't heard all night.
You have to piss yourself up to you, Cobra. You have to make it all interesting in the next 15 minutes
or while Sanchez is cutting the whole thing recording off.
Well, we could talk about cocaine and it's a fact and how much it burns when you snort it.
You have experience there. I don't have anything to do with any frame of reference for that.
Yeah, I don't either, but I've seen people do it.
It drives me nuts when they do it at work.
You've seen more than I have then. I've never actually seen somebody snort coke.
I've only seen it on TV and in movies.
Man, it's pretty bad out here. If people are pretty open about it, they'll just like do
the poor a little bit out on their thumb and do a bump like walking down the road.
You live in California or something?
I live in what?
California.
No, I live in Canada.
Oh, where in Canada?
Calgary.
That makes sense.
Taking after their mayor.
The wild wild wild wild wild.
No, um, Toronto, 20.
Get your new straight, you ignorant American.
Hey, America made up everything.
I'll have you know that, invented everything.
I'm American and they didn't invent the telephone.
Yeah, they did.
I'm just kidding, I'm being sarcastic.
I know, I'm just ribbing you for the fun of it.
I think it was Alexander Graham Bell who was American.
He invented the telephone.
Yeah, but where did he do it?
It doesn't matter, he was American.
Not really sure he was American.
You're not sure if Alexander Graham Bell was American?
Yeah, he might have later became American, but when he invented the telephone,
he was in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia.
And look at the internet, I mean,
an American invented that.
An American invented yousnet as well.
There you go.
But I'm pretty sure there wasn't a single American that invented the thing.
No, president invented the internet.
This is an honest question and I'm not trying to troll, but was Nova Scotia part of Canada
when the telephone was invented?
I know some of the different parts of the country joined at different times.
It definitely would have been part of Canada.
Or at least a commonwealth.
But at the time, it would have still been controlled by England.
So does that make it an English invention?
Well, looking at Wikipedia, he was actually born in Scotland.
But his citizenship was UK, US and Canada.
And his residences were in the US Canada and the UK.
That's beside the point.
Everything was invented in America and then it got out sort.
Yeah, white wrap might have been invented in America,
but the Canadians do it better.
Yeah, I know, for you Texans, that's a oxymoron.
I'm not a Texan, so.
Oh, where are you from?
America.
Oh, obviously, where are you from?
Colorado.
So I grew up most of my life.
I always go quiet.
Oh, I'm just eating.
I haven't eaten anything all day.
Give me a break.
No, you're supposed to give me a kick-cat.
I don't kick-cat.
I'm sorry, I can't.
I can't.
I'm really really hurt.
No, a kick-cat candy bar.
Yep, see, a mac invented kick-cats.
But they didn't invent a Cadbury cream egg.
No, it was incand.
Actually, they did because America invented...
Actually,
a merry cat was invented...
Cadbury Swissman.
Cadbury cream egg is...
...sing English anyway.
That it's where...
Yeah, I had some adjusters at the end of the year
because I was selling them already
for way before he served.
Yeah, that was nice things.
Cadbury cream eggs.
But America invented rabbits,
so actually they did invent...
Cadbury, why all us dang foreigners hate Americans?
I'm just trolling.
I don't really believe that.
Well, I know.
I'm just telling you to stop trolling.
It's getting annoying.
Okay, I won't do it anymore.
Oh, no worries, don't stop completely.
You know, it helps to liven up a conversation every once in a while.
You just gotta do it in moderation like 330 does.
Or wait, no.
Exactly the opposite of how 330 doesn't.
Like Grownas does.
Wait, who's 330?
Google annoying.
That would be pin guy OS.
Wait, maybe it's Google annoying augcast planet.
Shoot, that just returns at YAR.
Seriously, or are you just trolling?
I'm just trolling, but wouldn't that be funny?
Well, search results for augcast planet.
Annoying, but the 10th one down is dev random cast.
Do you see the words at YAR anywhere on there?
Or maybe soilant green?
I do not see at YAR.
And no soilant.
I still never figured out what soilant red was.
And I don't even remember the name of the movie to watch to go figure it out.
Actually, soilant green is the movie.
Oh, I've got an idea for a few minutes.
What's your idea?
An idea, yeah.
Speak now or forever, hold your pace.
Patience, patience, it's nearly time.
Patience is a virtue I ain't got.
It's about three minutes and 30 seconds before I shut off the recording on my side.
Yeah, yeah, well, time and eight, man.
My people, this needs to go in in that case.
Was your waiting for me to shut off the recording before you actually say what you want to talk about?
And then when it ended recording, you should give him a countdown, Andy.
No, I'm not going there.
No countdowns for this.
But if he's going to do something, well, he can do it because then I'll just get up and walk away and leave it running.
But that sounds like I'm going to do something really bad, but that's not the case.
Well, though, I'm saying it's all this walk away.
I'm just saying I'm going to go get dinner and stuff and leave it running.
I'm eating dinner, man.
I saw it cook mine.
I've got a ham steak here.
I'm going to cook.
I had an eggplant casserole already made up and I just had to throw it in the oven.
So I did that and they've got done.
It was pretty good.
I don't think I like eggplant, but I like the rest of it.
I will just add a couple.
I still have cheddar, cobra, jundo,
sep, sep, sep.
Possibly one of the other guys might come back like sons of man or verbal or William.
Are we still recording?
Oh, absolutely.
Yep.
There are still three recordings running.
Ah, the second day.
On the second day of New Year's HBR gave to me more crap than I can listen to.
Um, um,
oh, any time flow is going to do any way, so.
Double speed doesn't ear good.
I can't understand the foreigner on double speed.
I can't understand the foreigners on regular speed.
I have found a couple of MP3 players that can do 1.2, 1.5, etc. though.
Well, like how we just offended everybody who's not American.
Are you kidding?
Earlier, we offended everybody who is American.
I think we just, we've just basically pissed off everybody in the whole planet.
So it's no big deal now.
As long as they're being treated equally, that's all it matters.
So my philosophy is just treat everyone like shit.
Well, I was going to do a 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 5, 2, 1.
Okay, happy, uh, 2nd, January, 2014, UK.
And yeah, it's the first day.
I was basically my idea because yeah, I'm in the 2nd of January now.
It's almost time for you to go to bed again.
Congratulations.
Now get lost.
All right, I'm going to leave the recording running and then I'll, I'll be back later.
So you're sounding.
You got to be back in another hour.
I hope you've kept it up so far.
That's a long time to keep it up.
Yeah, that'd be a real long time to keep it up, man.
I already kept it up for 26 hours.
That was hard enough.
Well, if you can keep it up that long, call friend because you're going to have a fun time.
Hell, call 26 or 27.
I can, the way I can stop all night and do this, but I'm, I didn't plan to do that.
So 26 or 27 or 330, right?
And then just like calling one, oh no, he'll bring his social network with him.
That's probably a better bet.
Just call 330.
I feel much better now that I've had breakfast at 5 p.m.
Yeah, I woke up at about two, made some more fries and wow, that's really about it.
Well, he said good night last night or this morning and I went and I was all my knees on the
bed doing something and then I woke up and my face was hanging off the side of the bed and
it was, I was in an awkward, awkward position.
Oh, yeah, I think my, like my little thing, I did go into the sound taste of the calling,
but I shouldn't say.
Happy New Year, happy 2nd January 2014 UK, what have I did here?
I wonder if this will just be a long-running thing now as people get up and get ready to go back to work.
Want to show a bag?
No, just like a continuous show from now on.
It's almost like a party line or a chat room.
I mean, she's doing cool things with that cut and that's that, but isn't it?
Oh, it's okay, there's still streams and mirrors.
The only requirement is for somebody to call in,
but some I'm obviously referring to all of y'all, not myself.
Y'all are pretty non-confrontational bunch.
Like what somebody put in there, I see you just, just, I've just seen it.
Have we called it Guinness Beckles?
I don't think they'll take a recording, especially put together 15 times,
all of the sound taken out.
They might want to watch though.
Uh-oh, Beckleaw said he's coming back.
Yeah, it seems so.
Well, anyways, this is a quite nice way to start 2014, isn't it?
It's going to be a lot to listen to, a lot to take in, and a lot to ignore.
Here's what they get ignored.
Oh, it's going to go on for so long that eventually people are just going to kind of tune
it out and listen to it as background noise like a fan.
Yeah, those who get far enough, especially if all this after stuff goes up,
but yeah, wish I think those are plans, so yeah.
I hope it doesn't go up as a regular show.
Did you say something?
Exactly.
I think the sound chase it was just guessing it just goes in when there's like nothing else
to put out sort of thing and then bits after the other thing's gone up.
And now, another 20 minutes of our regular show, just so that you can suffer until you put
in your own episode.
Yeah, something like that, possibly.
And a message for the future, actually, or the
something that that person who might be out there who actually
listen to more than one person actually, who is out there and listen to the whole
26 hours of the first thing the first show, if you like, to begin with.
And then, which was last impressive already, but now you've moved on to D-shows that
they've actually put up, which, well, as you can tell, you wouldn't be hearing this in the
recording. But anyway, now they've moved on to a part of D-shows up and you've been listening
to every single hour. And as it's from the beginning to all the way up to now.
And I just want to say congratulations and you must be really into podcasts.
But that's awesome. And I hope you can join us for the next year's New Year special
and tell us who you are if you have done this.
Oh, I'll be here next year if I'm not working.
Yeah, but this is that was for the person who might have listened to all the way up to here
in the future when this stuff is going released, you know.
Yeah, but next year I'll be with the wife, so I'll probably only be around for maybe an hour or two.
I don't have a life, so I'll be here.
Wife, not life.
Either way.
Although I was saying that with the last one I meant to actually listen to the whole 24 hours
and that was really was the plan and I, and I've obviously been chatting on here and there myself,
but I, and I started listening to fewer recordings and I got a thing of like the bout six,
nine hours in or something and it all together and then I kind of stopped or whatever, but yeah.
And then of course I also skimmed through the recordings finding myself so that I could listen to myself,
speak and things like that, but even though I don't actually like listening to my own voice
in a recording which I'm sure applies to most people that they don't really like listening to their own voice,
but yeah.
Or does anyone here actually like listening to their own voice or recording of it?
Like in a podcast, huh?
I do.
But why is that?
He likes tuning his own horn.
Howdy, is anyone still here?
What's everyone idling?
Oh yeah, oh yeah, we're still there.
I know one is here.
I'm going to get to where I have K-robin in this, this room.
It's one of the most annoying things about this, but I've been speaking,
is that people with this idle for days, switch off and asleep,
still be on, on the mumble.
Well, we just like that thing that they're passed out at their desk.
What's going on with the whip, which means they're not in tune?
The red lips are on, chat up, the red lips are on, no talking, no talking.
Ah, they're still on.
I Chris, you say, he's Chris, you say.
Hello Chris.
Look what, the crystals are under them, um, around, um,
there's nothing that's wild.
Stop killing a show, Pagol.
I'm press, are you talking at all?
What are you just listening?
It's going to say hello.
Chat is normally pretty chat.
You're just going to go down through the list, alpha, beta, corn?
Yes, I'm talking.
I was just thinking, I was just thinking of something actually.
If this goes on for another 12 hours,
if this, if this goes on for another 12 hours, well, like it may be,
well, we're on the show, but I was thinking more,
Mark for Mark, that's anyway.
Yeah, he would want for New Zealand, I think.
Yeah, yeah.
Because that's right, isn't it?
Sorry, Tony.
Anyway, yeah.
It's going to come up in the afternoon.
I'm sort of, uh, uh, we, yeah, with one from New Zealand.
Um, you know, it'll be like, it'll be like a three day podcast,
because they'll be in the, oh, you'll be in the, uh, third of January.
What's that longest podcast on, um, either?
I think does anyone know?
I don't think anyone cares.
I know.
Yeah, we could, we could always, um, it's a, you know, do something.
It's for fun to see that, uh, goodness, this will record it.
She has said that it'd be fun.
Unless they give me money.
Well, not interested.
Well, you mean with it, you mean with this one?
Yeah, well, um, I mean, what's the, I mean, since we're going, what,
I know people chat and mumble right all the time, but, um,
no one ever records it.
You don't record a full mumble session for like 20 hours.
You must be a world record on someone trying to do that,
just again, to the guns for the records.
I've probably been one of those records now in case of that.
Yeah, yeah, it could be actually, uh,
it doesn't sound like I was saying I see about that, but, um,
I'm out like, how are you called to get inspired?
Maybe there is, uh, seriously, it's sort of a record out there.
It's a part of the first link for, um,
longest podcast ever goes to a Facebook page of a 25 hour podcast live.
Um, beat that one.
Really?
I should go and submit something, but if we record the whole show,
to keep someone in here and, um, going to get the world record.
Now to beat the record, do we all have to do it like the whole time or,
like, would they count shifts of people?
I say they just count just a few people, they've been recording it.
So we can prove that the podcast has been going for 20 hours.
It's been, um, he was 26 hours or more.
Yeah, probably a set, I mean, technically that is set that would be there.
I like people.
When you guys have been talking constantly, there's,
there has been one single gap in the whole 20 hours, 30 hours that you guys have been talking.
Well, I've been little gaps, but isn't that not really, no?
Yeah, I would have been here sooner, but I didn't know this was still going on,
and apparently cover two sent me a text message and my phone's broken, so.
I'll see you at the fair.
You should fix that.
I've been coming in and out, but I actually talked just with a stop by now,
so I haven't really been back for the last 10 hours or so.
But yeah, as long as someone's been like, he's being people in here and someone's been talking.
Yeah, yeah, it makes to the time.
So it slowed down a little bit sometimes, like in the, in the middle of the afternoon here,
which we're like, you launched time for Eastern?
Yeah, people, a little bit do that anyway.
Like, um, some people talk, some people listen.
When you have three or four talkers in the room, they can talk for either.
Especially if they're back.
Well, who's being strangely quiet, he must be sober.
Williams, listen to me, he'll talk for either.
He must be eleven.
Well, yesterday I was quiet because there was a lot of fantastic discussion,
and I didn't really want to interrupt it.
Yeah, okay.
Today's Devran, I'm fix it.
Well, I'm not going to go hay fuckers.
Instead of the game.
Not too late.
It's going to be over.
About unsposed, you guys being Americans mostly would think it's a joke.
About the piece Morgan thing.
I suppose we're just seeing now and seeing you all somewhere where, um,
the Brett Lee was, I was knocking his head off and he broke his wood rib.
I'm not very happy with that at all.
Being, um, I've pired the game before and I thought that was really
unsportsmanship conduct from the whole lot of people that were involved.
Personally, and I guess no clue what you're talking about, bud.
If you're not seeing, there's none of you guys watch CNN, do you?
No.
Can I piece Morgan off the talk show host?
There is a paper he replaced Larry King, right?
English guy.
You guys must know who PS Morgan is.
No, man, I do.
I watch mainstream media when my arm is put behind my back and I'm forced to.
I mean, well, anyway, he's, I think he might be joking or whatever, but yeah.
He's English.
So I'll see he likes cricket, right?
And he said that when Abraham and Australia play each other,
it's called the ashes.
And there's a series going on in Australia.
And when the English cricket team again, it's really done by Australia.
The six months ago was complete opposite England issue one.
But they've had players go home on tour a half way through and
players announce their retirement and all sorts of crap.
These like heaks of crap stuff going on within the side.
And what PS Morgan, that's not getting out, you can tell what's going on if you've played it.
What PS Morgan decided to do, he thought it'd be quite braining of him to face
one of Australia's bowlers, six balls, which is no other, and prove that he could do it.
The trouble was, so they got a guy that retired from Australian cricket team last year,
36. He's still well the quickest bowlers in the world today.
So he bowls about 150k. He's actually really quick.
Most test bowlers bowl about 135, 100 of the 30.
And that's that's like at the top level.
And if you're in a large, great player, probably bowl about 80k's if they're right.
So there's a big huge difference.
And in PS Morgan, they could face it or so.
They record the whole thing on national TV live.
And Brett Lee decided that he was going to take,
apparently it's a good point.
Good friends with Morgan decided that he was going to take his head off.
So he basically what he did, you can't do this in cricket anyway.
Other people both bounce, it's only get one or two if he six balls.
What you do is what he did was actually bolt full pace for long runoff.
And he fucking, he aimed for his head.
Now he actually cracked two of his ribs and he busted his shoulder, I think.
And it was just aiming at his head the whole time.
It was really dangerous.
It was actually going to go on the terms of being dangerous.
The only person that she's seeing, the Australians think it's a big joke.
Well, we are hurling and everything else.
I just discovered today, it's just two days ago that he's at X-rays and stuff.
He's actually broken his rib.
And his wrist, I think his wrist was the one that was broken.
And like, it was just this big joke.
It was like, you know, that's not very good for kids to play in the sport at all.
And it's not actually what happens in a game at cricket at all.
And it's just, it was like, it was just loans that going on and on and on and on.
It's a thick edge dessert that gnaw this crack and it's like, that's what he did.
I just got really pissed off with it from an imparised perspective.
And it was actually easy to under that actually came up with
one of the greatest sport was ever played.
And he ate both big pieces.
He wasn't a footballer.
And he actually said that he could kill them.
And both PSN frickin lit the bricklay had a go at her in the mid-year.
And said that he doesn't know what he's talking about.
I'm not going.
I'm going to punch ideas.
But anyway.
Pierce Morgan is the crazy British guy.
Well, he's not really that crazy.
They talk to Alex Jones, the guy that kept screaming 1776.
He has a very sort of pissing ability to me.
But I'm saying, most people think I'm a ducky, especially cricket.
The point is that as soon as it happens,
like me going into a ring of Mike Tyson and people with the cameras and stuff,
people telling Mike Tyson to knock me out.
It's dangerous for a star.
So who wants to be the first to make a bond joke?
Go for it.
But talk about cricket in this podcast.
So I thought it'd be a good way for me to go for it and carry on.
What bond?
Okay, I need to know who Chris is.
To annoying me.
I know four Chris isn't that they're hanging around with the savers.
And I'm from the US.
It's really annoying me.
I need to know who Chris is.
He's Chris.
It could be Chris from David Broadcasting.
It could be Chris from.
The pink guy comes in as Chris sometimes.
It could be anyone.
All of it out there.
It's Chris Lussard.
Chris Lussard.
This is Chris USA.
I thought you're not a new guy.
It's I am in the USA.
I just wrote I don't know.
I'm Dr. Chris from last though.
Yeah, okay.
Let's see.
It's what him and I aren't talking about.
I know he's a right.
I'm more out with Chris at the moment.
Surprisingly, it's not the next one.
Maybe a wee bit of this as long.
Half as much.
We'll see the people who are actually becoming there.
That's a good.
Come Chris.
Yeah.
You know one thing I do find absolutely kind of cool and amazing.
When it comes to doing like
well it started with Lennox Cranks and now KPO and Tillts and Dev Random and all this.
But just the people I talk to now like
I will talk to like my real life friends and go oh I was talking to my friend from Australia
or you know my friend that lives in Canada etc etc.
And they're like how do you know all this about all these people?
And I'm like because I talk to them weekly.
Yeah, I did.
And that just blows their minds.
They don't get it.
I can't talk anything technology here.
So I know some people in minutes have different personalities in this live online.
But I'm quite socially outside or used to be outside you know in real life.
And it's just I haven't been able to get that because I'm in a new city.
I don't know anyone it's quite hard for me to actually talk to someone with the same interest.
I always talk online.
Well you have to also look at it.
Most people you look at say they're a Facebook account, God forbid.
And you'll see classmates, people that they haven't talked to and haven't wanted to talk to
in the last 20 years.
And those are the people they mark as friends.
I know I've got to fit up with Facebook.
I've been reading family member of mine as long.
Including my mother and my father that don't talk to each other.
So that's always interesting to make it online.
You know it's just like I've just like what the hell do I do on here?
My wife doesn't like me even to come in on Facebook.
She doesn't understand anything about types.
So it's like well, there's no point me even
be on Facebook.
She should really just close my account.
I probably will think like do I do something?
Hey could only be an improvement as far as closing your account I mean.
I mean I've been like I'm reaching Google plus and just don't understand it.
One of those people understand how Google plus weeks at all.
Of course not because that's the thing.
Most people concentrate on the people they've known.
As opposed to in technology we concentrate on the people we talk to.
The people that are available.
You know go talk to your neighbor.
Go talk to a neighboring country.
Not to change the subject but are you really John Doe?
Because I've been looking for you for a long time.
I don't know how Mr. Gage is yet.
I think there he is.
Mr. Gage is being somehow looking like.
Are you serious about having looked for me?
Or are you serious or are you just making a joke about the name?
I'm making a joke about the name.
Am I still having a fight?
I think I am.
I saw a real name though, right?
I was having an episode.
No, not at all.
Not at all.
I think I missed something.
It's not some netblock issues but some people saying something about
how like Houston talks to his real friends
and that he was talking to somebody in Australia or something.
I don't know if whatever it was.
What was that?
Are we just saying Facebook, like on Facebook,
how people would just talk to,
they'd list people as friends and they'd never even speak to them.
I'm the same on Facebook.
I'd pretty much just have family members on people
that would let the school with.
And I don't even pay Facebook any attention at all anymore.
And we're just saying like,
most of my friends are actually online now.
So I'm always talking on mumble.
Pretty much.
Really the subject?
Oh yeah.
To some degree Facebook is like the new classmates.com.
Yeah, it's been taken over.
So I was reading something about Facebook.
Apparently 150,000 teenagers are leaving it by the day.
Apparently they're just idling accounts everywhere
because they don't delete their account.
They leave it on.
But they're moving over to like,
what's that pendant dress and everything else.
Of course they have to leave something for their parents to look at.
Yeah, and their parents are going,
this is the greatest thing ever.
And this is going, no, it's not anymore.
The only reason I use Facebook is
so I can view my nephews and nieces.
And that's pretty much it.
I like to keep in touch with my family.
It's good to that.
But really, I hardly ever paid any attention.
And I really had a comment I made on post,
but recently it was when like, great aunt died.
And I knew that she died to think of the funeral.
You know, I'll probably, you know,
it's just, she was,
I never had much to do with her.
The point is that I mean,
I just don't use Facebook.
My wife loves Facebook.
Yeah.
She play games and play game all the time.
That's what she does on it.
And she can check off.
Yeah, I wish she used to play that.
I think she's in something else now.
That's assumptions or something.
It's on her fricking life.
I'd go as often.
Pretty proper in the fricking morning.
You know, this is also some crap.
I think it's annoying.
I don't like Facebook either.
But yeah, I mean, what she does is Facebook.
She also likes to check up on her wetmakes too,
like when she's the manager.
So if someone doesn't turn up,
they'll wait for her as a friend to see someone
who goes to party.
What can you say?
And who doesn't say?
Got a technical question.
Yeah.
If I were to run just,
to turn on what the KVM like I was talking about earlier.
And I have a,
a Windows virtual machine.
Well, I take a performance hit on my network
on my interface going out to my real interface.
Why take a performance hit latency hit?
I don't know.
Did that question make sense?
Are you saying why would you take a performance hit?
Or ask what's the use of real life?
I'm asking probably to
a software beast Ethernet card.
So to some degree,
it probably won't be noticeable
for most applications.
But there will be some because you're going to be processing it in software.
I reckon we should go for the,
we should make this official for the real vehicle.
There is a V1.
We told the Edmunds.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Take something to bear me in the board.
Now in KVM or ZAN,
I know in virtual box,
there's a limitation.
Is there a limitation on the video memory?
Because in virtual box, you can only go to 120 Migs.
And it's kind of useless to use 120 Migs if you have a one-gig card.
Well, it's not necessarily useless.
It's just not as useful as using a one-gig card.
Right.
So how can I tap into my all of the video memory on my video card?
It's what I'm asking, using a virtualized solution.
Use more than one VM maybe?
There's no settings like within KVM to set it to one gig or whatever.
I'm not sure.
I don't usually use KVM.
Does anyone else in this channel use KVM?
No, not me.
KVM, if you can't find someone that knows all about that stuff, you might be able to help.
Who does?
KVM is a G2U user and probably knows all about how that stuff works.
KVM, are you still here?
KVM, KVM, sorry.
KVM Wingsome.
Mr. Gadget, can you actually hear us?
KVM, you might be able to help.
You know all about that file system stuff and things, don't you?
There's people muted, there's John, KT4, KVM, that's muted.
Yeah, he's talking about it.
It's all right.
There's a couple people,
anything I don't like about this channel is people don't go at K.
Or they don't actually go to a K-Rome, we shouldn't have to talk to poor about them.
And you don't know who's online, who's not.
But I know that Chad was here because he's just listed something in the chat room.
I don't know if Mr. Gadget can hear us.
I have to, I have to flash this lips or something if he doesn't want to talk.
And I'm packing a career at a lot of sites.
I'd say he's out of the link.
What the deed's got to both us, Mike's muted.
And John, KT, might be out of the link.
So it might be great for you to think.
And Ken fell in recording still, but probably out of the link.
So it's probably, in William, I think it's spoken for a while.
So he's probably out of the link.
And I'm out of the vehicle.
So there's still in the room, I'm sorry.
And sound chaser is recording, I think still as well.
So he must be a hear bit like.
William's been idle for 14 hours.
Yeah, so he should really, he used to annoy me and the Jupiter forecasting numbers.
He used to do that.
Anyway, that's just why I know that's a wonderful thing.
I hate people that like you think you're talking to them.
And they're just, they're just, they're relieved.
And maybe I would have thought about leaving this for a couple of minutes
to make coffee, whatever.
They end up going away full time, not come back for like 10 hours.
There was one guy I didn't hear that I showed up one day.
And he was in, no, it's basics, basics.
But he left, and he was a young kid, he left his mic on.
And he left it on for 12 hours.
He didn't realize he was still in mumble.
But his mic on, because he didn't have press to talk to us on to continue us.
And he kind of knowing what how mumble works.
So you can hear his mother having a gun in the cleaners room up.
That was quite funny.
Well, did you get a good recording?
No, I was thinking about it at the time.
It was a 30-hour episode.
You see, I'm not that sort of person, John.
Yeah, it was a bit quite funny.
I had to go and get door from door's chat room to go to just to get him off.
Because I've got a thing I have been in this room.
I've really got to see any reason why I need to be.
I don't even know who the admins are and I can speak.
I think door's one.
I'm not sure who the other admins are.
So this station right here is called Hacker Public Radio.
He says, is that Hacker in the traditional sense or in the sense that everyone calls it today?
I just don't.
I just don't.
Okay.
Because I don't even know what Hacker.
I mean, I wondered about that too because I'm only if he said that we'd Hacker.
And makes it Hacker into something.
A Hacker is a person who does something in a stranger and usual fashion.
Technically, I'm definition.
I'm Hacker being good.
No, well, yeah, it can be that as well.
But no, no, Hacker, he thinks when he wakes into this and that,
or if you don't really know what the term means.
But that's the media getting things wrong.
Actually, Hacker is a programmer.
So you like your Hacker paper program.
You edit, you change the code to that program, yeah.
So actually, a good example actually is Richard Salman.
Because Moidaz is, when he signs people's signatures,
I think he always does this now.
But anyway, he's got his little thing where he bests he signs it with his name,
and I think he's about hacking for freedom as well.
So there you go.
So, and then it's not that what the media think, that's all wrong,
but that's where the terms ended up.
I'm not getting used.
So does he, he does hack freedom.
He hacks law, he hacks freedom, he hacks software.
He hacks all sorts of things.
I mean, it's not just computers that can be hacked.
It's electronics, it's society.
It's a different meaning.
If you type your computer apart and build one,
you can take me and victim your Hacker.
The public, it's the way the public see it.
But they don't understand what that means.
They really don't.
And even the media, this theme, a pretty basic tool
of the reports and stuff, and they don't understand what it means.
Two degrees.
My point was for that question.
Like I read in the Fedora 6,
book for her certification.
It talks about hackers and how their programmers and
and they wanted to open up the source
and allow other people to look at it
and change it to their needs.
That's what I meant by traditional Hacker.
Hacker, as opposed to
how people interpret that word today.
That's something the evil.
Yeah, I know.
Because it's the end of that term.
Hebrew Linux user is a heck of a pretty much
in the programmer or whatever.
Because that's always changing at this top.
They're on limits for a start.
So I think maybe we all hit here.
Well, that's that's exactly what it comes down to.
Something, someone that does something
in a stranger in usual fashion.
That can be anything from opening a door without a key
to simply opening a computer without a key
or popping open the case to the computer.
Something that most people would never even imagine doing.
At one point, and at many points,
many manufacturers were putting stickers
on the sides of the cases and saying,
well, if you break this sticker,
your warranties void.
Except if you need a better graphics card
or better memory,
you need to break the sticker.
Well, I brought my warranty.
Well, then I must not worry about warranties now with computers
because I'm taking me under the warranty
but we're even in this country.
If you type your computer to open your computer case,
you have broken your warranty.
If you want to upgrade your RAM,
and it's quite sticky,
it's in the computer shops that take me
breaking the warranty because I've been in a big rain for people.
The piece of heart, that's right.
And that's what gets rather interesting too.
Because in the US,
there was a lawsuit over that.
The issue is this,
there are user serviceable parts inside the case.
There are also technician serviceable parts.
As long as a person is reasonably competent to replace it,
they are a technician replacing the parts inside of it.
They are a hacker.
At least to that degree.
Yeah, I agree.
I mean, I do that all the time.
I mean, my main thing is hardware and software.
I mean, I've got my video card.
Just there, the box.
I have the back one.
I've changed the whole case to everything.
So, I just find that
that case, some of the rules.
They really need to upgrade them.
And now if you look through most computer manuals,
they give you instructions on upgrading various parts of them.
Whereas before,
you're not supposed to open the case.
I have a question.
How many people have had drawings with my case on it?
Uh, I think I've got three sitting here.
Yeah, exactly.
Are you talking hooked up?
Oh, just, yeah, well,
something that you can turn on.
I pull it off and hit,
if I'm mucking around in the case,
and I don't have the front case on it,
take it off and leave it off for a little bit.
I know I've got external cases without the casing on them.
I've got one of my computers just sitting here
without the case side on it.
Stop!
Then the last.
I've got to be able to time.
I've got two cases in the bedroom.
I don't use which have got the cases off and everything out.
Well, it depends.
A lot of the case design that goes into the mini
and microform factors,
and especially the small form factors.
If you're running it,
you want to leave the case on.
Because when it comes down to the small form factors,
the way that the air blows through it
is very specific to the heat dissipation in the case.
And you can overheat the system by taking the case top off
or the case side off with it running.
It's interesting.
Yeah, now you can either either hate it
without the case on.
Yeah, not.
Is it dead?
I had to run off.
Now, someone had a question before.
I think you can answer about
something to fall off systems or something.
Was there again?
VMs.
I had a little bit to a little bit
of what's not too much.
I know.
Fedora is going to, um,
virtual theme.
Thank good boxes to have a try.
You know, Chris, you are say had a question about
utilizing full memory in VMs.
Yeah, you've got memory valve with your RAM,
which you can adjust.
You know that.
You know about that though.
I take it.
And settings.
I mean, it just,
you let you would see how much RAM
you're going to give the virtual watts.
So I don't know if you can use it
while you're a total RAM,
you're having a total shame.
Because you've got an virtual watts,
so you might better use it all year me now.
So sharing the memory that you're very sure you've got,
I don't know if something can correct me
on my, it's been on dish once.
You folks were talking about Facebook earlier.
I can't tell you how much I hate Facebook.
The only time my family talked to me
is around holidays.
So I just ignored them.
Yeah, that's the same with me.
I really haven't paid.
I have been on Facebook for over two weeks.
And as I said, my wife gets annoyed.
I don't say that because my family
might like you saying that.
I'm like, well,
if I went away and say anything,
I just don't bother.
I can't even look at family pictures anymore.
They're all on Facebook and I refuse to join.
It's just become a fucking
Atari.
Old people's home.
Thanks for the trouble.
It's fucking nothing at all.
Long as you're legal about it.
Pretty much.
I'll tell you who swears in the
mumble room is Ellen George swears in the
mumble room all the fricking time.
There's hot ears.
I'm just fucking swearing the mumble room.
What are you talking about?
This is an HPR show, man.
Swearing is okay.
I think that like you say people on YouTube
and you say, oh, that person probably need a swears.
And it's actually swears all the time in the mumble.
Sweat nonstop.
You know, all the time.
It's okay.
It's not FM.
It's not digital TV.
You can swear you want over Wi-Fi.
And it's not tagged safe for work.
This is not a family-friendly podcast.
Yeah, this is not a family-friendly podcast.
I'm sure when this goes out over Hacker Public Radio,
it will be tagged as a doll.
Yeah, well, I probably think you guys are
hecking in the stuff of PDLs anyway.
And I'm wearing a stupid heck of throng-thong meat.
Well, I installed Gen 2 in the process that I installed
Gen 2 and slackwear in the process of the show.
Yeah, I installed Arch this morning.
So that only takes like 20 minutes.
I'm on it.
I mean, Trio, at least.
I'm at a gold fleeting with Windows like one.
Yeah, I've just done a video.
So I guess that means I've been hecking as well.
He's an open shop.
Generally, when it comes to language on
either doing, like, whatever podcast I'm on,
usually if no one else will curse,
then I will keep it family-friendly,
because I'll just automatically assume it is.
But the minute someone starts,
it just becomes an avalanche of curse words.
It's on.
It's all I'm fucking going.
Exactly.
I'm gonna go and see if that's Chris.
Chris's last one, though.
No, no, the little greek one.
Who podcasts?
I'm gonna go and see what he sees.
And chat.
I'll still start.
So what's the purpose of swearing?
I have no idea.
It's like in jikes.
I don't know.
Someone would get a point across.
I mean that the words mean nothing.
And I responded to him by saying
that if the words mean nothing,
why do you say it?
The words don't mean nothing.
They mean something.
They're usually exclamations
to put emphasis on other words.
They don't mean nothing.
Anybody that tells you that
fuck doesn't mean anything,
doesn't know what they're talking about.
It has multiple meanings.
It's like every other word in the English language,
like mayonnaise.
It's the stuff you put on bread.
Then it could mean, you know,
like mayonnaise a lot of people in here.
That's great, I'm surprised.
Or you could...
You.
Or like say,
I was discussing, like say I had an install problem, right?
We'll use Fedora as an example.
That's what I'm running.
Like, I don't know.
Say the bootloader didn't install correctly.
And I had a whole bunch of problems with that, right?
Now if I said,
oh, the bootloader didn't install, you know.
Man, that makes me upset.
By me saying I'm upset,
then you'd know I'm upset.
But if I said the fucking bootloader didn't install,
I'm pissed.
Then you know exactly how upset I am.
Yeah, and you wouldn't even head the part on the end that said,
I'm pissed.
Yeah.
But you can say words that sound angry
and not use those words also.
Yes, but how many stupid people are going to know those words?
What it really comes down to is that there is no such thing as a bad word.
There are bad people.
There are bad intentions.
But a word in and of itself cannot be bad.
You can use it badly.
Also, if you were to say to me,
hey, could you not curse that offends me,
then I wouldn't do it.
But if you told that to me, I'd tell you to go to hell.
Now to put it in perspective,
the word bastard is a very interesting one.
That offends many people.
In Turkish, if I remember right,
the word for bastard is peach.
Now, think about how that can be used in different contexts
that would call someone a bastard without them even realizing.
Do the words you're just a peach mean anything?
That's exactly it.
The words actually mean anything inherently.
Well, do they mean what we attribute to them?
You can't have a bad word,
but you can certainly have a bad intention.
Although my favorite insult does not use any curse words,
and you will hear it anytime you go below Southern Indiana,
and it is bless your heart or bless your soul.
I would have that one.
I've got done that.
It's definitely one record for the longest
ever podcast running continuously,
and being recorded.
It's Cine4Als.
Charmatures.
Chachach.com.
Christian for the record.
The record for the longest podcast record.
Yeah, and if it played music, fail.
They've been talking all the time.
So, Chris USA does, does cursing offend you?
Not much of things made personally.
I feel that a lot of other people,
because I'm quite opinionated,
that only I don't mean anything
personally towards that person,
if I'm saying something,
enough people can either come,
actually understand it,
and just normally not unless you,
I'm only not being friends with people for years.
I'm saying if it does,
like, if it actually does,
then I won't do it.
There's a couple curse words that really bother me.
I'm the Christian,
so whenever you take the name of the Lord in vain,
that bothers me a lot,
and the F word.
All right, then out of respect,
I will refrain from doing so.
Whenever I'm in the channel.
The question that occurs to me,
of course, is which name?
Like, when people say,
on my G, or
J.C.
in a derogatory manner.
Or GD.
Yeah.
I don't think we can be so much in derogatory manner,
so much as an exclamation of strength,
but that's me personally.
Are you finally in derogatory, though?
Are you finally in the Holy in front of other words?
Well, if you're in the proper context,
like saying,
Jesus Christ lived during the,
Jesus whom people called the Christ,
lived during such a period of time,
and people believed that he was a Messiah.
That's different than just saying,
Holy,
I don't want to say that because I believe it's swearing.
It's safe in derogatory.
How do you feel about Holy 48-hour podcast, Batman?
I don't care about that. That's fine.
But you would probably take events to something like holy shit.
How do I should go for the world grip and break it?
Break it, break it, super-toed.
Not really.
But
I'm just wondering because my parents would,
and my mother would probably take events to the Holy whatever, Batman.
50, did you ever come back from getting your beer last night?
No, he did not.
I came back about 4 a.m., I guess.
I felt a sleeper about 8 o'clock at night,
because I'd been up the night before.
Maybe about 8 o'clock in the evening.
I got up at 4 o'clock in the morning and I was just gone.
No, 50 took a detour to somewhere that he laid down.
He got up, got a beer, and got back on.
I must have got to be here because I don't have any now.
Yeah, I was talking to you around that time.
So, tickly, I'm just wondering how it should qualify.
Like, has anyone actually been in the room the whole time,
has anyone actually been talking,
has anyone roughly,
haven't left the room?
Some choice would be the closest there.
Yeah, some choice.
So, you might be the one that might be going for the world record.
Hey, what?
Why, um, why don't you check?
I can't listen to it all,
and then start it again.
It's good by doing it.
Let us know.
Well, you've actually got recording,
so it's quite easy to prove.
Is this, uh, this big continuous recording,
you know, it's about records,
if you must listen to it.
In verify, to be a fun joke.
Well, we just have to stick together
and make it record.
This is a hard, then just submitting it to him.
There must be a way of actually doing it, though.
Yeah, you have to have,
you have to have a sitting dignitary.
You have to have someone from the goodest
with a world record.
And I can't remember,
there's a couple other ways of doing it,
but you have to have at least those.
And you have to give them time to get the publicity involved.
But that's all right.
What it does is just go and contact
and just go and record the same thing.
I do this for 72 hours.
Go for it.
Do this again.
And we're going to do this again next week, guys.
This is Jake.
Why are you joking?
Hey, 5150.
Yes, sir.
What does that mean?
Uh, I took it from, uh,
the original IBM PC model 5150,
uh, when I first got into podcasting,
I had the idea that I might, uh,
uh, do, do videos or some YouTube videos
or something on my, uh,
uh, uh,
oh, my, my antique computer collection.
Never have got around, got around to doing that yet.
I knew I knew that from somewhere.
I just could place where I knew that from.
Well, people ask it all the time.
I tell you what, though,
I would like to find that son of a gun who, uh,
filled the space between my ears all full of cotton last night.
Uh,
your wife.
No, I just, that's, that's just how I felt ever since I got up this morning.
It's like, oh, it, man, it's been, it's been kind of hard to focus.
So you turned into a cotton picker?
You could say that.
So wait a minute.
It sounds to me like you've been rich.
And the solution would be not to drink.
That's not a solution.
Logic.
No, I couldn't be that bad.
You don't want to wake up with a hangover, don't drink.
That's pretty sound logic.
But it's not fun.
I mean, sometimes I don't drink.
Yeah, but at least people who don't drink and have fun
can remember what they've done.
I mean, I even once got drunk and not remember what I did.
It was my 20 years.
Oh, wait, wait.
That's kind of my curse as well.
I remember every idiotic thing I did.
I remember the times when I've been drunk way better than the times when I'm sober
and I wish it was the other way around.
Yeah, I probably do too, but see, the only times I really drink it,
and I don't drink it all this years,
but I wasn't used to even Christmas.
So, um, or someone's birthday.
So it's probably why you're eating the those sort of times, mostly.
So it's also kind of logical.
Wait a minute, drunk anymore.
Wait a minute, back up.
People who don't drink have fun.
I just can't fathom that.
Yeah, it's like time.
You know, it's time.
I have fun and I don't drink.
Yeah, I have fun.
No, well,
I think more fun when I was drinking.
I was playing sports.
I think I said it for the boy.
It might have been, uh, I'm sorry, I stepped all over y'all that one.
That's right. It's going to lay.
Sometimes I'm the correct thing.
I'm not.
He's got like, I can't even count when you step on him.
I think it might have been Winston Churchill,
but I'm probably very wrong on that one.
Yeah, I think I am wrong on that one.
But the quote goes, I feel sorry for people who don't drink
because when they wake up, that's as good as they're going to feel all day.
Now, I think that was WC Fields.
Yeah, you're right there.
No, uh, uh, Churchill is the one, uh, that this, uh, lady,
somebody who we always argued with at dinners and stuff came up to him and said,
Mr. Churchill, you're drunk, sir.
And uh, he says, that's true.
But tomorrow morning, uh, I'll be sober and you'll still be ugly.
I believe it was to the same woman.
He said, or she said to him, if you were my husband,
I would poison the tea you're drinking.
And he said, Madam, if I were your husband, I would drink it gladly.
Oh, hey, hey, if you have what, um,
sexism was based when you drunk, because you, um, you always pick your head.
Yeah, in the morning.
Something.
Oh, you think you boys could figure out something better to talk about than drinking?
Yeah.
That's what you do when you're talking.
Didn't maybe you drink some more sugar to talk.
Yeah, screw food.
I just stayed.
I don't want to be hungry again.
Yeah, they're, they're, they're seeing at least when I was on, they seem to be for, for the, uh,
New Year's Eve show, there seem to be a huge lack of discussion of food, like we usually do.
It's usually like a little bit of tech between, uh, our, our, uh, areas of talking about food.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, I, I tried, I tried to start one of those discussions last night in the,
actual New Year show.
And, you know, no one would take it.
Well, at least for this after thing, we had a little bit of, uh, uh, food thing earlier.
Some of us, but, but, um, but, uh, but yeah, it's, it's not been much.
And it's kind of a shame because, um, despite what, what certain people seem to think, I,
I think the food topics, um, like if some people said some stuff that was a bit like, or it doesn't sound
very nice, but, um, in general, I think the, the food topics on the thing last, last, last, uh,
year, last time was, was pretty good in some of them.
It made things quite interesting.
Some of the things that was added and so on.
But some of these people decided, oh, we're not going to do those are food topics.
But food topics are good.
It's what we can all kind of talk about.
We'll eat that way.
And, you know, we might not eat the same thing and we might not like the same thing,
but it really does bring a, it really does start a good topic off what can do.
But, yeah, I want to go eat sushi now.
But if I leave, um, it's this awesome conversation about food.
Actually, yeah, Cuba, it was, you and me weren't there.
We had a little food thing idea and maybe someone else think it was you, but whatever it was anyway.
What are you hackers still doing here?
It's the same.
I'm also well record on the podcast.
We went it out as a semi-two hours done by some people called, um, I can't remember.
But you have to have someone come to this world before it's here.
I suppose you've been wise.
Prove it's recorded.
We're running out of content, so now we're just talking.
We're appealing content.
Could be worse.
Could you just eat the same hour on repeat?
Aren't you guys going to bed?
Is anyone else looking to have that?
Some of us have already been to bed and come back.
Again, we're setting a precedence here.
We're going to have to do this for 36, 48 hours next year.
What you have to do is go get those little liquids in,
get them officially becoming an incident.
So it's apparently how you get into the record books and it's semi-two hours.
Go for it.
And by the way, I said we do.
We have to wait until it's next year to set a precedence.
Why don't we just keep this going until next year?
This server is up 24, 7, 365 days a year, so you can do it whenever.
They normally just do that for cash and you don't need cash.
You guys realize you're ruining it for me if you do that.
Because the only reason I use this for him is you guys don't need to hear
when you're doing your podcast, so I actually check it with people.
There's plenty of rooms.
The question is, is will the server be able to handle that much audio,
reading space wise?
12x speed, I think.
Server doesn't record.
It's just a little bit of clients that record, right?
Well, the maintainer of the server always has to, this time of year,
he always has to pay more for 100 connections just in case.
I think the normal lemma is around 20.
So right now we would not be able to have this going on with 23 clients.
So how does anybody know how much of a pain in the butt it is to set up murmur?
I've got one.
It's running on a Raspberry Pi.
I would stick one on a line node.
It's real simple to set up.
I just do a Google search for
how to mumble or murmur and you'll find instructions.
It's the one I found was for Debian, and I think it also included for sent us.
You know, I wonder how hard it would be to make a BBS for the Raspberry Pi.
Yes, we don't live in the 1920s anymore.
In the 1990s?
I know, I was being a little bit over exaggeration.
I mean, but trying to get games off a cassette type is how I'll go in.
I remember pirating games on cassette tape.
Yeah, I did that.
I remember pirating games on a photocopier.
I remember when there was no photocopiers period.
You kids.
I'm a ruin.
We didn't even have water.
We had to suck it out of mud.
Yeah, the pace A is a lot.
Stink of like things.
So I have tires tape.
I thought 330 had gone to bed or work.
I don't even work, both.
Right now, the reason people are coming back is people are still in there.
This road next to AFK room, we need to talk to an admin.
I respect one thing, it's always on the way back I can speak.
The only fricking member we see there around, it doesn't have AFK room.
So if people want to idle, they can idle in there.
So why don't you just minimize your client and then you won't see him?
Yeah, but then what now, how point is, if you have a large amount of people,
I hit the settings and used to have them check the broadcasting.
You have 20 people and a mum will see it.
And then people just leave, they don't know if they're active or not.
Because if they don't, we need to talk to them to go into the AFK.
And once they started doing it, they could just stay AFK the whole day,
then they'd just pop back into the lounge where either the room was.
That's too much effort, I don't care about that stuff.
It only bugs you, so it's your problem.
Pretty easy to make room for AFK, people won't use it anywhere.
I speak when he had leaves straight away after a podcast,
and you don't even see him making him for like six months.
Yeah, but the podcast is still going, so you know, they might walk back in,
that they don't want to lose their slide.
A lot, a lot won't even know that this is happening, of course, but yeah.
At least the live view looks quite good at the moment.
I think I can speak.c, say.
If someone will look at I've been speak.c, say, go, oh god, there's like 20 people in here.
He just lies.
I gotta go get some laundry out.
Actually, somebody might like find out about this data and think like,
oh, if anyone had known that this was going on, I would have called it,
but well, too late then.
Actually, no quite a few.
Stopping recording, recording, stopping, sleeping, no.
Oh, that's one of the thoughts, but I think Ken's apparently still recording,
and is anyone else the man?
Yeah, that was, that was me.
That's the recording stances, who either?
I think that last segment I was recording was like six hours.
Maybe you should just go, is recording his stomp?
Let's be done with it.
No, I'm shutting down my stuff by no later than 11 PM Eastern time tonight.
So the MP3 stream will be gone and I will stop recording at 11 around that time.
It's time I have to go to bed.
Most people you feel in the MP3 stream.
How many can we fit or how many were there?
I mean, were they on me?
I think I've seen a maximum, I think the maximum I've seen when I was watching it was,
there was a total of around 67, and that was about 30% MP3 to versus 70%.
You know, oh god.
Sound chase with still recording, isn't he?
It's at the hour who just got the second of January.
That was me an hour ago.
Now it's, yeah, that's one, just one AM here.
So what's going on?
We're going to do it like last night where we just announced where it's become a new day
in all the countries again.
No, no, no, no, no, just, if anything, just people who are on, on chatting now,
because we've, you know, we've done that.
No, but we should still mention that we're doing this for a cause.
The Accessible Computing Foundation needs your help.
Well, yeah, as far as we thought of that, I mean, we were a little bit of more people carrying on,
but, um, sure, the, the old quirk, um, in the go-go campaign that could do with more money,
and he, um, he did, he talked a lot about that when he was on.
Obviously, but yeah, I think I said something like this earlier.
Yeah, I did something like this earlier.
I think with all curl, something like that, and of course, um, people who, you know,
things might happen to us that I can see.
We might end up blind as well, and then all curl will be useful.
So yeah, so it's a good, it'll be a good project to, um, put money into, I think, and
try and get them more developers like he's trying to do.
It's almost like an insurance policy.
Just in case you go blind, I'd still want to use a computer.
No, no, no, no, yeah, not just that.
I've met, I've met, um, I met, I met blind, didn't it,
so users actually or people who were interested?
Yeah, it didn't, so users, I met one, um, last year,
and I'm sorry, 2012, and, um, he was always a computer issue,
and somebody in December as well, and, you know, and, um,
it's like anyone else really, it's just blind, a lot of these people, I think, you know,
just tell them to read the manual.
It's good that, it's good that, it's good it's something like awkward makes a
computer accessible because they comply to emails and all the rest, and that kind of thing.
So, um, yeah.
It really is, especially considered that in reality, a lot of the manual for various computer
programs are not available in Braille, not to mention a lot of the help manuals and similar
stuff, they're just not available, and so you're either left with OCR or you're left with e-books,
and as much as, you know, I like the idea of having the physical book.
Sometimes an e-book is just easier to parse for screen scraping.
Oh, you see, you see, it makes e-books accessible as well, is that what you're saying?
There's no reason it can't.
Yeah, I'll see with a fit, but I'll see if physical book like you just said that,
you can't really be that accessible with such, I mean, well, it's Braille, but I mean,
the normal physical book.
There are systems by which you can scan it in, OCR the text, and have it read out,
and there are such systems that can be obtained, but it's not exactly easy.
Of course, there are also audio books, but finding an audio book for a technical manual is
not that great.
Yeah, it soundtraces still recording, isn't it?
It's like reading a technical manual, not that great.
Depends on the technical manual.
I don't know, I tried reading CCN, and that's really, really boring.
Try reading law.
Probably even more boring.
It's a hobby of mine, it's actually quite useful.
Here's Insomnia.
Oh, I can understand that.
Chastifer is going to work upon me, or well, he's just disconnected.
So going on to something that was discussed last night,
and something I was talking about earlier, I'm looking at the idea of putting a BBS on a
Raspberry Pi. I know it seems a bit weird, but it's also not your classic BBS necessarily.
Have you Googled for that?
Not entirely, I'm actually looking at a specific BBS to put on there.
It's open source, source is available.
Basic libraries are available, and it runs on Linux, DOS, and Windows.
If it's available in devian or art3pos, you can, I'm sure you can do it.
It's just like any other computer.
It really is, and my main reason for doing that, I'm not sure if anybody here was
available when I was talking about Rachel.
No, that was a long time ago.
All right, Rachel is a project that puts together a multitude of open resources
from around the internet, including a small Wikipedia version, called Wikipedia for Schools,
a small subset of Khan Academy videos, a variety of textbooks, and ebooks, including a good
many ebooks from the Gutenberg project, all together on a collection, to that can fit on a SIM card,
or a USB thumb drive, or whatever, and then can be served out over a hotspot to an area,
or a group of people, allowing use. Let me post a link to an example site of it on the internet here.
Oh, last night when we were talking about coyotes, like after I hopped off here, and I went to
let the dog outside before going to sleep, guess what I hear? A possum. Exactly.
Yeah, but we don't have the possums you have. We have opossums.
They're mean, they're ugly, and they're like the only marsupials we have.
Yeah, we don't like the redneck population. Yeah, I want some weight to it, it's not big
thing, it's possums. Not big here. I haven't got any preaches.
What BBS package are you looking at running? I'm looking at a little one called Synchronat.
Let me google that for you. So, how long is this thing in the last film?
Well, it hasn't stopped yet. Whatever the last person stops recording.
Now, I'm just going to go and rate this into Monday's at the right page.
All right, cool, it's already been done. Doesn't look like he provides any instructions.
No, but the main reason I was looking at that, number one is so that on something like a Raspberry Pi,
you could have not only the original HTTP stuff, but also have the BBS set up to allow
NewsNet, allow FTP, etc. and give a basic BBS feel so that somebody with an older computer or
any number of other things can access over very, very slow connections. So, even if you have
just a very basic wireless connection or a basic dial-up connection to the system in place,
you can still access it. One thing we were talking about is that the Rachel project, the way
it's set up has books that can be of a lot of use, not only for education, but also for survival.
It's almost like all of the books you'd ever need to rebuild civilization.
Now, part of the advantage on that is in a disaster, if you know an extended period of time,
you have to survive somewhere. A lot of the information can be quite useful. And in addition,
if you want communities to talk to each other, you can put up a small hotspot like this.
In addition to putting up a BBS on the pie, since you have enough extra space, to allow community
communication. Not to mention the possibility of using it over packet radio, which they also
mention on this one. Now, that would be fun. I'd also love to see it done over something like,
well, here's an odd thought, GMRS packet radio. Keep in mind also, as far as community building,
the Synchronet package also provides email services, news net services, and a variety of other
stuff like IRC Gofer and Finger. You're really making me want to get a pie just to do this.
Hey, I'm not going to argue with it. Everyone should have a pie or two.
Indeed they should. I have one by really done much with it yet.
I've got a decent recipe and install and a bunch of other stuff loaded on there.
One of mine is currently a ice cast server for a couple of podcasts and the mumble server I mentioned
earlier. And another one I have set up as a bit as a torrent server. That's kind of what I was
thinking is setting up a few use game, few insane little servers like, you know, a web server,
ice cast server, torrent server. Only thing with a pie though is that it runs, well, yeah,
it runs a non-free software as well. So the FSF actually will recommend people,
they'll tell people not to get a pie for that reason. I think it's like the BIOS or whatever
in there as well, but it doesn't know. It's quite a free software. It doesn't need
these little things, but yeah. That was true when it came out. Didn't they manage to get that
opened up though? Because I remember the makers of the pie saying they were trying to get it opened
up. They have to leave it closed to restrict the use of codecs and similar things that they
didn't pay for. Yeah, so it's not one cent free hardware, but nearly.
That bites. I wonder if there are any alternatives, because I mean, definitely for 70 up little servers
in that, you don't really have to be too worried about codecs and stuff. So look at the big old board
left. Look at the what? The big old board black. Sorry, big old bone black. Yeah, I see that.
Yeah, yeah, there's the big old board and there's, I think there's a few other ones really as
well to even less known out there. We could let find them or whatever.
Now the big old bone black also has the two gigs built in for storage, and then you can add
other stuff too. Of course, I also like that it uses a barrel plug as opposed to your USB plug,
which granted the USB plugs are very common. They're very usable, but nonetheless, it's also not
exactly the easiest thing to integrate with. Greybird, are you in the mumble? I'll have to
disagree about the file server for the podcast. I've got a Samba server running also. I forgot
about it. It does find for home usage. Oh, yeah, home usage, there's no problem there. I mean,
it'll do fine. It's got a decent USB setup, and that's the biggest thing. Everything is going
through USB. Mr. Jackson, you don't need video except for the initial setup.
For that matter of video, it's easy enough to use on most of these devices anyway.
Greybird, the Model 2 has two USB ports, and once you, if you have to have a, I mean,
you're on need one of them, obviously for a keyboard and a monitor on the initial setup,
then it can be ran headless after that, and then you can plug in your drives, or you can use a
USB hub and attach as many drives as your hub as well. That's a Model B, and as far as USB hubs,
I picked one up. I think it's a 15-port USB hub for $15. So, have either of you heard about the
Dead Drop Drive project? I'm familiar with the overall concept, but I don't think I've heard about
a project involving it. Well, there's a website I will find to hear in a minute,
but what people were doing, and they still might be, I don't know. I saw this
maybe a year ago or so, and what people were doing is they were taking USB drives,
taking the case apart, wrapping the actual thumb drive in a tape and like multiple layers,
and then like pretty much making it waterproof with enough tape and everything,
and they were finding holes in like brick walls, and taking quick re, putting it in the hole,
jamming the thumb drive in there, and then putting, you know, like a rubber cap or something on
the plug, so water wouldn't get to the actual circuitry, and just leaving it. And with the app that
they had, you could pretty much geo-tag where yours was, and people could just go around and like
with a laptop or whatever and plug a cable into it, plug another cable into the laptop, and just
get whatever files are on it. I thought it was actually really cool. Oh, so it's mounted into a wall
with the USB plug exposed. Yes. Not a bad idea. Wow. Actually, I can think of a few reasons it would
be a bad idea. Yeah, there's always like the, someone could just be a dick, sorry, and like just
snap off the end for, you know, their own personal bits of giggles, or someone could put something
terrible on there. Yeah, as Mr. Jackson said, it's a virus trap. Or for that matter, they could put
some really upsetting porn on there. Mm-hmm. But if you wanted to just leave files like,
you know, just like a dump of books or something, just make it all read only, you know,
to where no one else could write to it. But then again, someone could just format it.
I think I'd prefer a file drop where it's successful over Wi-Fi, powered over solar.
That'd be awesome too. Basically a little hack in the box or a pirate box system.
I actually thought about setting something like that up and just like putting it
either in my house or, you know, somewhere else, nicely weather sealed.
Put a bunch of like public domain books on it and just let people get them whenever they want to.
I think that'd be kind of cool. So yeah, I think people would be ideal for that. So I originally thought
what? See, when you started talking people, I thought you were originally talking about strong
box, which was actually the last thing that Aaron Swartz was working on, which is a way to transfer
data anonymously. Really in a way that would be more of a live drop than a dead drop though,
you think about it. Yeah, but I just think it'd be cool. It'd just be somewhere. In any way,
you could have a repository of books that people could just get. You know, I think that'd be
amazing. Like other than, you know, the Gutenberg project, just a physical location. Someone could
have someone could like either hook into or use Wi-Fi to get books for free.
And more importantly than that, I'm going to go pick up food. I just got finished ordering and stuff.
So I'll be AFK in the channel and back in about 30ish minutes. But I see the guy who got really
pissed off for people AFKing in channel is gone. Yeah, if you're looking at a drop like that,
especially over Wi-Fi, take a look at the Rachel project that I linked to earlier. It has a
selection of Gutenberg stuff. It also has a selection of books. Let me see if I can take a look at
some of these on here. A selection of books that has the O-L-P-C electronic or educational packages.
It has World Literature e-books, which is essentially Gutenberg. It has K-312 textbooks,
including teacher's editions. It has health care and medical videos. It has a good selection of the
Hispiri and health guides. If nobody's familiar with those, those are awesome and always worth a read.
Where's this link at? I'll link it in again.
Now, that is an install of Rachel running on the web. You can also get a copy of that for the
pie or a copy of that for a Windows computer. Frankly, if you put the files up directly on an
HTTP server, it works fine. It just doesn't have the functionality for search.
There's an extra stash at the end by going to that and then I'll go on to the page.
Yeah, I put another link in there without the slash.
Actually, I should get a hold of 3.30 and see if he doesn't want to help me with this.
Frankly, I think there are a lot of areas and communities where this would be
rather handy. Places where people may have a cell phone that can access over Wi-Fi and most
of the videos are in H-264. Almost any phone made in the last three years can access H-264
directly and play any of the videos and they're available for direct download as well.
I'm having a look at this. I don't know, it's like why am I going to just go on to sort of two pages
there, but it matches the UK school curriculum. Is that correct? How many tests are on the page?
I got up. See you next. Are you talking about the Wikipedia for schools?
Yeah, yeah, that was actually done by a non-profit organization. They took a lot of Wikipedia articles
paired them down, put in a decent set of censorship and categorize them according to actual
school curriculum categories. Yes, and it's done on the UK, is that one that's interesting?
It's essentially made to interact with a school curriculum so that it can be used throughout
a school. Even if there's no internet connection, you still have most of Wikipedia,
minus the important things like the references. Yeah, it's like Wikipedia, isn't it? I mean,
I'm just starting to have a look at this. If you look down further on the original page, I think
you'll also find the K-12 STEM textbooks. They also include packages of scratch for windows,
linux, or while a boom to at least, and macOS. So I don't know what we saw in the IRC.
Somebody said, what's the world record for the world's longest podcast? Apparently it's 70 hours.
So I've suggested maybe this year we do a podcast that starts on Christmas Eve and goes all the way
through New Year's Day. Are you serious? Although, yeah, that'll be a very long podcast.
That would smash the record. I mean, that's over a week. But does it count with, like the guy
said earlier, would it matter that you've got different people coming on ships or whatever?
But I guess it's a podcast either way, isn't it?
Jaylindsey's comment. That's going to end up like those Korean guys who play a game so long,
they die. Well, we still die doing what I love.
You can have a whole week of podcasting. You better get done a computer in case you don't have
enough space for all those gigabytes. I have recordings. I wonder if that would come close to a
terabyte. Fans, I want format. Well, we're like over 36 hours and I've only used 11 gig of space.
Inflac. Inflac. Man, if we did that, that'd be enough HPR for a year. Ken would be so happy.
And HPR would have so few listeners. It would actually have to come out on a separate channel.
It would actually be a separate release cycle. Oh, yeah, yeah, it would be so much of that.
It sounds like you're serious and you weren't just joking there.
Sounds crazy. Well, there's so many to suggest earlier. We could do three days, 72 hours,
which sounds a bit more normal. But, um,
if you're serious about a week, I'm sure we'd actually work on this on HPR because there's so many
different people that you could probably actually do it. I mean, look at this one.
Well, the record is 70 hours. So if we just did three days,
if it's a question of when it's podcasted, is it long enough doing three days might end up
being too short. You might lose over two hours. So I just chose a week to say, let's make sure
that we get enough material. Sound chaser is in charge of next year's show officially.
You haven't got the idea about how I work, do you? And I just kind of like toss things out there
and up the Andy every now and then for the fun of it. Yeah, but yeah, but this sounds like an idea
that could seriously work with HPR. Not just as a joke, but I mean, seriously, because there
is enough people and there would be enough contents. You know, you just make up as you go on, isn't it?
That they could probably actually work there. So there's crazy as it sounds realistically.
Well, it's certainly beat the heck out of Leo's 24 hour little piddly thing.
Yes, but next year we need video. Oh, geez, that means I'm going to have to put on pants.
I'm not. Mum will can do a video, can't it? I don't think it can. Or maybe it can, but I don't think it can.
Not supposed to do this. Well, what can it all count? It's not supposed to. It's supposed to be
like game chat, wasn't it? And then turns out to be useful podcasts as well. I didn't do video
as far as I know. There's this jitsy skype alternative, which we talked about before, didn't we?
Which is supposed to be about still at all the stuff. So
video was on the future list for mumble. Was that future or future? Future?
As in, not in the current and not in the next version that's in development. Well, past that.
Well, yeah, that's what I like with a lot of open source projects, really. Things will get pushed
forward or the idea will it's like, no, not next release, but maybe they won't have to or maybe
the one after that. It will be interesting. I jitsy would not be a bad way to go if you do
enough of a conference call with it, but I think it does support that and be interesting if
enough people actually had it and could use it. But then again, it's actually pretty much open
standard. So you wouldn't have to use jitsy itself. Yes, I don't need to be in distros like that.
I don't, well, it's not in all distros in the repo, which is, which I know, at least not certain
distros. I think it's, I think I don't know. I think it's only been around probably a few years
actually, because I don't think it's as popular as it should be in a way. It's like, but I don't
really have, like I said before, I actually used it yet. I just know about it because of
this, people were mentioning it and actually I think I've read the article about
probably before that anyway, but anyway, yeah, but yeah, it needs something open source, obviously,
to do whatever. Otherwise, it wouldn't really be in the, what's it saying? It wouldn't really
be in the spirit of the podcast. I think that's the same type thing. I think the spirit of the
podcast involves using whatever you can get your hands on, especially if it's not supposed to do
that. Well, we don't want to do on Skype, do we? Let's see. Using Linux to run on a mic
Microsoft service to bash Microsoft. Why not? Well, not just the Microsoft thing. I mean,
I was thinking more because it's closed source program, but sure, there's now the whole
that belongs to Microsoft thing as well on top of that more recently, for those who care
enough about that. Now, we could do it over him radio, but we'd have to watch our language.
So for video, it supports SIP and xmpp and codex audio wise, it supports opus, silk, speaks g722,
PCMU, PCMA, ILBC, GSM, G729, and XC. Then video, it supports H264, H263-1998 slash H263 plus,
and they claim VP8 coming soon. And yes, great, great beard, RTP for audio and video.
Well, good, Bernie, somebody to package it in from it into your idea, because it hasn't happened,
I thought I started explaining this discussion about that, but it didn't happen. It's kind of
shame, really, because well, maybe the next release or something. But that's the thing with
community distro as well, is you really do have to find, you know, you have all these packages
out there, but you really have to find the volunteer, because that one's a volunteer, so that means
all the packages as well. You need somebody who's going to volunteer and say, I want that package
in the distro. And although it has most of the packages you would expect in general, it's just
just, and the repose is missing, which is kind of a shame, because of, yeah.
Well, they actually, they support just looking at their list here. They've actually got
Ubuntu, Debian, RPM packages, and arch packages supplied by default.
Yeah, and I got installed out of my, my Sabian repositories, which means it's in Gen 2 as well.
Well, excuse me to do another bug report, or whatever, and try and get into Medea 5 repose now,
because it's too late before, because it's, well, I was trying to get it in, trying to get
interest before the version, but for new packages, but that's passed that, so I have to try again
for the next one. Well, but, but your materials are PM based, right?
Well, yeah, well, yeah, I mean, when I just try one for, when I just try one, or you can
install it from source or whatever, but, you know, I'm talking about the repose, it's nice to have
these kind of packages in the repo itself for easy install, but obviously, there's so many packages
out there that this, they're not all districts are going to have a exactly the same packages
at that one time, because they're so much stuff out there, and you need packages to put that in.
And I'm not a packageer, and I'm not really telling anyone going through the whole
mentoring process and putting in packages for the distro, but, you know, but for people who want
to do something like that, it's, it's quite nice distro to get involved with in that sense as well,
because they have a very nice mentoring process, I mean, you could go to a mentor and go for the
mentoring process before you can even, before you can get accepted as a proper packageer and so on,
but always looking for volunteers for that as well. And I would love to, you know, I wouldn't
want somebody to put it through in, and be honest, I think I said this on the other new,
I think I said this in some other podcast, probably before actually, I personally actually,
I couldn't have any bunty people here now, really, but maybe somebody's listening to this, but
with something like unity actually, I would like to personally actually see that in more distros,
but I think it's going to be even harder now, because of the whole, it's going to alarm the
thing and most distros are going to go to Wayland as of this year, I believe, but, you know,
it would be nice to kind of see something like unity actually in more distros available,
like cinnamon and, and mate now are as well, they're in more distros and, yeah, those are in
the material, well, they're going to be in the material for their in development in the repose of
what will become at the moment as well, so that's good. But yeah, unity is a good one, because,
I mean, unity is an interesting one with a band faces, because if you want unity, if anyone
wants unity, they're putting that stuck to a bunty now, or maybe a distro based on it, and this
kind of a shame, even, although somebody did try and package it for Fedora and somebody tried
for open sushi, but I hope it's used, but they gave up for the technical reasons, I think it was,
and now they'll murder thing, like I was saying, which is probably going to make even harder to
actually get into any other distros when they'll go in Wayland, but I assume, but yeah,
that's how it is, I guess. Well, back at the point, there are RPM packages already out here,
which should be easily buildable against magia, especially because it's pretty much a Java-based
application, so it shouldn't be that big of a deal to actually get it set up and rebuild it for
magia. It shouldn't be that hard. Actually, I'm going to apply to a great
made here in the podcast quickly, which distros are going to Wayland, and the whole bunty talking
about Wayland first. Well, yeah, I suppose they did talk mainly about Wayland first, but Wayland is
from the actual actual developers, and I think some people thought Fedora was probably one of the
first to have a Wayland idea, actually, but bunty did say a lot about it, and now they're doing
Mer instead based on that. So that's that one. As for which distros are going Wayland, I believe
it's going to be pretty much every other distro because of ups, because we're also because of
ups, we can project such as GNOME3, which has, I believe, only really poor, it is, yeah, for GNOME
3.10 they have experimental Wayland support already, that was part of their goals, and then for GNOME
3.12, which will come out at the end of March, the goals have full Wayland support, so that's going
Wayland, and I think they haven't really supported Mer at all, which is also why both is also partly
why bunty is on GNOME 3.8 and for you to hear the movement and things like that.
Well, I think most distros other than Fedora haven't actually announced yet, when and if they're
going Wayland, I mean most of them are assumed to be going Wayland, but most of them haven't announced
it yet. Well, yeah, it's assumed to go to Wayland, but I agree with that, but I think a lot of
probably to be honest, they're going to be waiting for ups, dreams, who first will have
poppers and full support for Wayland, and then quite a few will probably be having a look at
a distro such as Vidora, which tends to make these bigger switches sooner than a lot of other
distros, and then they'll pulleak and follow a lot of them, but that's what I believe will happen,
I think it's kind of all happening this year, really.
And the whole X or 12 has one people go Wayland, obviously, because they're not,
they're not going to be doing X anymore, X or anymore, so yeah, and also the X or community
are the people who actually started Wayland, it's their project as well, you know.
As for Mer, I guess it's really just because, well, I guess really the main reason is because they
want to have all control over Mother Unity, so it can run on phones, TV, the computers and all
the rest of it, and so they need to Mer, because apparently Wayland wants to do a different
direction, and so yeah Mer. And that's another point, actually. Some people don't like the idea
that Bunt2 is kind of like, it's the same platform now, but yeah, but I think that's kind of good
that they're doing three different as well, because because they'll get more people into
desktop Linux over time, or should do as long as things don't go too wrong over time, is that.
You have been listening to HackerPublic Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show,
like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself. If you ever consider
recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is. HackerPublic Radio
was founded by the DigitalDarkPound and the Infonomicum Computer Club. HPR is funded by the
Binary Revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are crowd-sponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share a like, lead us our license.
