Episode: 1108
Title: HPR1108: What's In my Bag?
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1108/hpr1108.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 19:03:52

---

And,
Hello, welcome to Hucka Public Radio. In this episode, I'm going to be talking about
what's in my bag. It's not some sort of weird game show where I have a bag for the things
you have to guess what I've got in my bag. It's the bag I take to work with me every day,
all of my gadgety gear and kit that I take with me. I thought I'd just tell you about what I
look around with me. So I have a set of show notes with pictures of everything I take,
and they'll be in the show on this episode. So every day I take to work a quick silver backpack
with the Hucka Public Radio badge. That Ken gave me, that's our camp. So that's what I take
with me every day to work, especially putting the message of HPR out there, and in that backpack I have
my little netbook. So it's an Acerous Spine netbook. I can't remember the one,
a little bit now, ZG5 I believe. It originated, it ran a really rubbishy Linux distro, which I
can't remember what it was called, but it was, it just wasn't very good. So I put a bunch of
one there, and it's now quite happy running, I think, 1204. That's really nice, I use that quite a bit.
In fact, I've recorded a couple of episodes of HPR on it.
I've also got my Kindle. I've got a Kindle 2. It was a present from my wife, and I've got loads
of little books on there for my Riley. So that's always quite useful to carry your reference
live with you. And it's got a few little proof of concept ebooks that I've been putting together
on it as well. So I've been writing ebooks on Ubuntu, and then publishing them onto my Kindle
2. So they look like, so I've got some of those on as well.
I have my car pod, iPod. It's a little green, four gig iPod mini. I used to have a KSCED,
the car, that's a KSC, and it's probably my most favourite car I've ever driven.
Because it was just amazing, and to add to the amazement, it had like a USB socket,
so you could take a USB key, put your podcasts on it, plug your USB key into the seed, into the
care, and you could control and listen to your podcasts, and you know, skip to the next one,
pause, mute it, all that kind of stuff, it was great. But we change cars to a CET, and it doesn't
have that option, or at least the model we have, doesn't have that option. So again, my wife
brought me this from computer exchanges, and I've replaced the firmware on it with Rockbox,
which is an open source alternative to Apple's horrible firmware. I believe it sort of sits on
top of Apple's firmware. I don't know, huge, I don't know a lot of Bayotid, but it certainly feels
a lot nicer to use, a piece of software that I know I've got the freedom to go into the source,
and see how it works rather than just hoping that it works the way I think it's going to work.
And I've also got another iPod. The other one is a, I think it's a 30 gig iPod,
used to belong to my wife, but the screen got a little bit broken, just started to get some black
lines on it and stuff. So she decided she was going to get a new one, because she had it for
some time, and to get it repaired was going to be pricey. So I acquired a second hand partly broken
iPod. Again, that's now running Rockbox, and that's quite good. So a lot of songs on there as well.
I've also got a 2 gig USB key. It's a Buffalo key. It came with a one terabyte driver bought from
Argos, I believe. Just one of those things, I decided I needed some storage. Argos haven't
had some one gig drives that I'll do. So it's empty, apart from two files. It has a file called
LD Linux.sys, which I think is left over from the previous Linux install, and a picture of a cake
that I was going to make when I left my last job. It's basically a riff on the keep calm and
carry on. It's keep calm and Google it. So that was that's the USB key. It's only 2 gig, as I say,
I don't really use it for a lot, but it's always nice to have it, particularly if you've got a
a netbook with not a lot of storage on it. I also have a conference folio. It's an A4 conference.
I think it's a kind of plastic leathery. I'm going to go with pleather folio that I picked up
from some conference some time ages ago. It features the sort of decal and logo of a company called
Opal Telecom. Telecoms transformed. Now Opal Telecoms was bought by Talk Talk and
currently the old web address Opal.co.uk seems to redirect OpalSolutions.com, which apparently
should be redirecting to Talk Talk. I need that actually doesn't work. So at the moment that
website and the history of it seems obscured somehow, you can find it on the way back machine.
So you can find their wonderful website from like 2003 or whatever. It's not very good.
Inside that to folio, I have an Oxford pad. I just like the paper because it works well with the
pen that I use, which is an azda pen. I found these pens in azda. I think there's six in a pack,
two black, two blue, one red, one green, something like that. And they're amazing. I went through and
I bought like 10 quids worth of them. So you never short of a pen in my house and they're always
these pens. I find them really easy to use. And usually in addition to all that junk I also have
a mouse for my money book, which is one side buckets, which when I was taking these photos originally,
I forgot because I took it out to use it with my Raspberry Pi. So obviously if I can get a photo
of that and put that on the other side, a little Microsoft USB wireless mouse. It's a lot easier to use
than the track pad on the little net book. So that's what I carry around in my bag. Not much in
there really. Not a huge amount of technology. It's pretty old, but I like reusing it because
it's still got some some life in it. Okay, well thanks for listening and I'll see you later. Bye bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, or take a public radio does our?
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday and Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the economical and computer club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com or binref projects across the sponsor
by LinoPages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinoPages.com for all your hosting
needs. Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released on the creative commons,
attribution, share a lot, because our license is low.
