Episode: 1849
Title: HPR1849: LinuxLugCast Episode-004 Outtakes
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1849/hpr1849.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 10:06:47

---

This in HPR episode 1,849 entitled Linux Logcast episode 0-0-4 out of takes, it is hosted
by Kevin Wischer and is about 9 minutes long, the summary is, pre-show and after show
banter that does not get published through our normal feeds.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com, get 15% discount on all shared
hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Make a web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello all, this is Kay Wischer from the Linux Logcast podcast.
I'm submitting our show out takes for episode number 4 for HPR community.
If you've heard the previous three episodes here on HPR, it's the same format, you'll
hear our normal outro music, the first part of the show where we're getting things ready
and bantering, then you'll hear the intro outro music again, you'll hear the end part
of the full recording and then you'll hear the outro music again and so without further
ado, here we go.
Just so you know, I've started recording.
Yeah I noticed that, you think I should start recording also or you think yours is reliable
enough that we don't need a second one?
Couldn't hurt.
Okay, I'll start then.
That sucks.
We're toleranceless tonight.
Yeah, I think he knows about it.
We've got other things going on, don't know.
I've enjoyed having them in the last couple of shows.
Yeah, it's nice to have somebody that we're not just talking to ourselves, you're right
about that.
I know I think it'd be the first one when we had Tony Beemiss and a dude man on.
Right.
Hey, I meant to ask you, are you going to Nelson this year?
I'll be there right now tomorrow morning.
You know, Bruce and Jonathan were on the pod nuts meetup the latest episode and Bruce expressed
a lot of gratitude for your volunteering work at the last one.
Yeah, but if you remember actually listening to the Linux basics episode we did right after
it, I didn't really do anything.
I actually just kind of hung back and because I didn't know anybody really, I just kind
of hung back and I stayed out of people's way.
I mean, I introduced myself to Bruce because I actually had some interaction with Bruce
before, but I actually didn't help last year.
I plan on getting there early this year to actually try and help and now that they called
me out on it, I'm really going to have to go up there early and help.
I'm like crap, what the hell you doing saying that I didn't do crap last year.
You know, I, from a couple of times, I've kind of complained about it not seeming to be
any contact information on the NELF website, but it turns out, Jay Lindsay pointed it out
to me today that there's actually an icon up at the top of the homepage that is an email
contact link and I didn't, I didn't notice it partly because it's all Facebook, Twitter,
things like that, but also that the, the icon that displays in Firefox is very late gray
on white and I had to stare at it for a moment to notice, oh yeah, that's an on, that's an envelope
and when I mouseed over it, I saw that it was a mail-to link, so I was suitably corrected.
Yeah, I should probably actually figure out where exactly I'm going tomorrow.
I know, I know whereabouts, I just, you know, I know I need to, for me, I got to drive up the
brain tree and then I got to take the teon and tour to Boston and I think they said it was like
Coply Center, something like that and I think Coply Center is the stop in between
MIT and where they did it last year in Cambridge, so I think I know where I'm going, but I should
probably actually figure it out. I have no idea how to get around Boston, I was, I've been in Boston,
I went to Boston once in my whole life and that was back in the late 60s or early 70s for like two
days. It's not a bad place. I really don't remember much about it to be honest and I would be
completely lost if I had to try and find my way around anywhere there. I've been there a lot
and I'd still probably be lost trying to find my own way around. I have a general idea and that's
about it, sadly I know how to go to, how to go to Fenway and that's really about it, oh and maybe
South Station and Logan, so I can know how to get out of there. During your two days there, did you
go to Fenway at all or go buy it or see it or anything? No, I'm trying to remember if I remember
anything. I went to Fenol Hall, is that how you say it? Is that the pronunciation? Fenol? Fenol.
Fenol Hall, right. So if you give any more thought to what type of desktop environment you want to
run if what Mayor or Wailand take over? No, when I thought about it, it seems to be that either
KDE or Enlightenment are going to be what I choose between. I've followed some of the activity,
the announcements about Enlightenment through the different blogs that the project runs
and it seems like E19 is going to have some Wailand support. I believe KDE's window manager
is going to have Wailand support, I might be wrong about that and both of them are pretty configurable,
so I might be able to carry over the preferences that I have right now. It's just a matter of learning
that what the jargon is for KDE or for Enlightenment and setting them up. I haven't spent any time
lately within the past couple of weeks fooling around with either KDE or Enlightenment, so I don't
have any more experience or more familiarity with how those things operate. But I expect that it's
not anything that's going to be needed even within a year or two, maybe after two years, it'll
get to a point where X is not supported really anymore and everybody's going to have to be migrated
to Wailand, so it's not a real urgent thing, it's just a thing that at some point I'm really going
to have to deal with. Well, 50 can back me up that Enlightenment is a wonderful desktop.
I can't at that. I'm not using on anything currently, but I have used it quite well. No, I guess
scratch that. I do have it on my netbook, so and yeah, I think I still usually come back to
LHD, but...
And I stopped recording.
How do you think that went? I think it went pretty well.
Yeah, I wish I'd had a topic I was more prepared on, but I think I was looking for solutions in
a place that they didn't exist. Well, that's that's mostly how I learn. You know, I do the wrong
thing and then somebody points me in a different direction or I figure out that, hey, that's not the
that's not the path to follow. Try something else. And
you've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and is part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
