Episode: 1699
Title: HPR1699: FOSDEM 2015 Part 3 of 5
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1699/hpr1699.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 07:56:40

---

This is HDR Episode 1699 and titled FATSIM 2015 Part 3 of 5 and is part of the series interviews.
It is hosted by Ken Fallon and is about 48 minutes long.
The summary is Wikimedia, Hack the Knit, Jitsi, XMMP, Colab, Dowdlinux.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An honest host.com.
I'm here at the Wikimedia, but you have Wikideza and I'm talking to you.
My name is Kim Jil. I work at the Wikimedia Foundation.
Can you tell us a little bit about Wikimedia what it is and why you're here?
Well, Wikimedia is the organization. It's the movement that takes care of Wikipedia.
All this is the projects. That's more than 800 different Wikis.
We also have basically free knowledge. This is our job to distribute free knowledge for everybody.
So you're the software that's behind Wikimedia, I guess.
We take care of the software that is behind Wikimedia. We take care of Wikimedia itself.
We have the organization that try to help editors bringing whatever they need,
communicating to the world what's Wikimedia, what is our mission,
defending editors when someone wants to sue them, whatever it's needed. That's why we exist.
Can you also help with development of the software and running of the service as well?
We are the main developers of Media Weekend and the main extensions that provide all the functionality you can find in Wikipedia.
Also, there's more than that. There's also the software for running Wikidata, Wikinary, Wikimedia Commons.
There's also the Wikipedia app for Android, iOS. We're literally running hundreds of software projects.
Okay, very good. Are you aware of what the infrastructure behind Wikimedia is?
Well, we maintain that. So yes, we are aware we maintain that.
Could you share a little overview with our audience of what that takes, what that involves?
We run everything on our own data centers because we want to assure to our readers and to our editors that we take care of that data and with the integrity of that data.
This means that we have different data centers in different parts of the world.
And we take care of literally everything from the parity system of the boxes, all the caching, all the load balance, everything basically.
If Wikipedia goes down into our fold and is a job to bring it up, the size of this project is phenomenal.
Even on the Google ads where they're pushing Google services and the type of Google the first three hits I've noticed on all of them have been Wikipedia entries.
Did you notice that? Well, of course we noticed that. I think there's a combination of two factors.
One factor is that Wikipedia is popular and this should bring, I don't know, I'm not the one who wrote the algorithm that Google is using, but apparently that helps.
But also is because, well, Google knows what people are looking for and basically for at least the type of searches that you're searching for some term.
Probably what you want to know, it's in the first paragraph of a Wikipedia page and the image is there and et cetera.
So basically, yeah, they use the data. We produce free data for everybody, so they perfectly, I mean, they can do that when we are happy that they do that.
So, yeah, I guess that's the reason why. Very good. Amadi, what's your purpose for being here this week?
Well, for them is the main event for free software, free knowledge lovers and we want to contribute a little bit to all these big parties.
We have big, as you said before, we have big open source projects, there's about 500 regular contributors and even more sporadic.
But also we really connect free software with free knowledge, open data. For us, it's all part of the same concept.
So I can actually go and download the Wikipedia database and store it on my own machine if I wanted.
We have the data and the documentation, so you could clone, you could clone English Wikipedia right now if you have the time and the willingness to do that.
I could also do that for the images and all that and stuff.
You can do it, yes. So we offer data dams. Basically, it just depends on your bandwidth and your servers.
But technically, there's no impediment for you to fork the whole Wikimedia installation. Everything is free and we have instructions to do whatever you want to do.
I guess for people who want to help out, there's anybody can start by just editing a page and it's as simple as that.
Do you find it hard to get people to just go and make that first data?
Well, yes, it is. So I think in the earlier days, people were more aware of Wikipedia, something that didn't exist before and something that was made by people and something that needs the help of the people.
There's a lot of people that still are aware of this, but actually for a lot of younger generations, Wikipedia is there, it was always there, it's useful.
You know, they have a different concept, these are interesting. And actually, while the use of Wikimedia projects keeps growing steadily, actually the line of contributions is more flat.
So this is a problem we are looking at. It has many different implications. It has to do, I don't know, that people using now more mobile than desktop, etc.
So yes, we were looking at, this is actually one of the main priorities of the Wikimedia Foundation, seeing how we can increase and diversify the ways that people can contribute.
We have a problem with HPR because we have this saying if you listen to HPR, you're supposed to contribute to show.
So that is two side effects, meaning as soon as somebody contributes to show, we can't make a Wikipedia page about HPR, so we have no page on Wikipedia about HPR.
But what I've seen a lot in the past is some of our sister podcasts have been taken down because they're not novel enough. Can you tell us what the uniqueness requirements are, why they're there?
Well, when you put up a article about something and then the article gets taken down because it's not considered to be important enough to be maintained.
What happens to those articles? Are they archive somewhere? Is there like Wikipedia, delete the article place that I can get those interesting articles?
Well, technically, when an article is deleted, it can be undeleted, so it's not completely destroyed.
But the interesting part of the question is why pages get deleted? And actually, there's this concept of relevance, and you have to put things in context.
Yes, everybody wants to have a page in Wikipedia, and this goes from whatever your neighbor, from companies, and there's a lot of pressure to bring irrelevant or biased commercial information there.
Well, editors, they're just humans, so it is a bit of a problem, but actually, usually, it's also a matter of people not knowing what are the principles of Wikipedia.
So, for instance, if an article is well-sourced with, you know, third party sources just saying, hacker news is great, or I don't know, something that it's not just, I write this article and it's great, then it has a lot more better chances to just stay up.
Also, like Wikipedia has, and that's also a project, a problem, especially in the few big projects, you know, English, Wikipedia, German, Wikipedia.
It is less of a project in smaller Wikipedia, it's just for the reason that there's also less pressure to get biased information, et cetera, et cetera.
So, English Wikipedia, for instance, has a stage area where you can write a draft, and then you will get advice from experienced editors telling you, well, you know, you might want to source this information because you're claiming this, but, I mean, is it true?
I mean, true, you know, but is there a newspaper or another website of someone that actually can just, that you can check that this is actually referenced and is said by someone else?
And I think that, actually, if you do a bit of the homework of what editors expect, the chances that a listed piece of content stays in Wikipedia, they are a lot higher.
And how do you, there's no advertisements on Wikipedia at all. How do you pay for yourselves?
Everything, absolutely everything relies on five to twenty dollar euro donations from thousands of people in different countries.
We have some major donors, so there's some companies or some public institutions that they bring more money, but really, we don't rely on them at all.
We do rely on those thousands of people, and in the day, those thousands of people find that it's not worth giving at the nation to Wikipedia, then we are in trouble.
Do you find that content delivery networks start caching your stuff, Barb? Is that something that you...
So, you know, our mission is to bring free knowledge for everybody, so we are happy when anybody just takes our information and brings us forward.
Of course, we, we prefer when people respect the license, and at least they, they have the credit that this comes from Wikipedia.
I think it's everybody's interest to note that, because, of course, the information, yeah, this is how we get the source alive and, you know, and updated.
But, you know, we're doing the work, the work that we're doing is exactly for others to reuse it, expand it, do whatever they want with it.
Cool stuff. Are you going to be given talks here, or are you still here on the booth the whole day?
I'm quite stuck in the booth, but actually, no.
Tomorrow, I'm giving a session with Andrew Clapper. We are going to explain our experience moving from Baxilla to Fabricator.
73,000 bucks, move to a new project. We are going to explain why we did that, how it went, and why the community didn't cut our heads.
Okay, very good. If I can find it, I'll put a link into the show notes, and if not, people can just go to the first-hand side and find that video will be on there.
Thank you very much for this. It is one of the projects that gives me, restores my faith in humanity.
Yeah. If you're not a contributor to...
I think he's restoring it, like, if so much, but he has given you the mobile list.
If you're not a contributor like I am to Wikipedia, please consider doing it. It's relatively painless.
What's your project called?
A project is called IUP, all yarns are beautiful.
Okay, and I see here a knitting machine.
Yeah, it's an old knitting machine from the 70s and early 80s.
They got produced to the middle of the 90s.
Okay, and who are you guys? What's your name?
My name is Ants, and I'm a hacker from Munich, from the case-bitter club in Munich.
And you are?
My name is Chris. I'm also from Munich, and yeah, we started this project two years ago.
And got pretty popular, and so we're here in Brussels and show it to the people, yeah?
So it's a... I'm going to have photos in the show notes.
So you've got different colors of yarn, and it goes over and back, and you can basically knit a scarf or something.
Okay, and then on top of that, I see some sort of electronic device. What's that?
Originally, the machine worked with a kind of punch card, all myler sheets,
in which you can draw your picture on it and do it in a very easy scanner unit.
What we did, we replaced the whole electronics of the machine with an Arduino and custom shield to control the machine.
And now you can plug it in with your USB. Knit any picture you want, two or up to four colors.
All right, so you take a picture and you digitize the picture, and it decides which type of yarn is going to be woven.
Each pixel is one stitch, and where you can choose a color, you can use any color you want.
Yeah, you can knit any black and white picture, or whatever, to a scarf, shirts.
Hello, what do you want?
And you need to go... you still need to do the over and back thing, unfortunately.
Yeah, you have to move the carriage, left to the right by your hand.
But what we do is you set automatically the needle to the right position, so the right color is chosen.
Ah, fantastic. And who decided that you would do this? Where did the idea come from?
And the idea was from, yeah, about two years ago, some friends of us, they started knitting by hands and hats and whatever.
And then we started knitting a bit, but it really did work out, and so we thought about how it must be any kind of automaticized.
Yeah, then we came to this old machines, and then we found some similar hacks from the newer one of the machines, and we found this cheapest one,
because the leg of the scanner unit, and then we started. We thought we were engineered, and now it works.
So what sort of licenses is covered by this? I can't even imagine to guess.
Our software and the Arduino Shield is completely free and open.
Under what license? The software is GPL, and the open hardware license are possible.
Okay, and I can just go to the website and download that and build that.
You can download everything we have, a bill of materials on it, what you need, where if the software is completely written mostly in Python, and the Arduino software is written in C.
Well, when you can produce by yourself, or if you're not able to solar it, we have produced a small batch by hand, where you can buy it for small money.
We've already done shows on how to solder here, so that should be no problem.
And how much is the device itself usually? Where would you pick them up?
Yeah, you can find it on eBay or on some local small stores who repair them, and you get these machines in a good shape between 200 and 300 euros.
And then you can, they're about a meter wide, so you can do jumpers. It was a lot of people hacked already.
You can knit about 200 stitches on it, and the length is infinite.
So you could make like a big banner.
On the case, communication congress in December last year, we made a rail warmer for stairs, and it was about 10, 11 meters long.
It was about 3,000 or 4,000 lines of knitting, but it was done in like half an hour or something.
It's not too bad, it's not too bad.
And there seems to be an awful lot of interest in it here. Has many people done their own projects?
Have you found other people have taken this and contributed back code?
Yeah, we have some hackerspaces in Germany, we have some people from all over the world who adapted our hack to their machines and worked fine for everyone, and many people are happy with it.
Okay, guys, thank you very much for the interview and good luck with the next hack.
I've met my way over to the Libra Graphics, and I'm talking to you.
Ginger Coons.
And we spoke last year, I believe.
Sorry, say again.
We spoke last year, so what has happened? What's new and improved in the Libra?
First of all, tell us what the Libra Graphics is for people who haven't listened to last year's show.
Yeah, absolutely. So Libra Graphics Magazine is a publication.
We've been around for five years now, actually, which is terrifying, and we're devoted to showcasing really good art and design work done with free and open-source software.
100% free and open-source software.
With the exception of the firmware on our cameras, which we need to fix.
Ah, yes, so. But I heard from the Linux format, guys, that it wasn't possible to do 100% Libra Graphic Magazine, so you couldn't possibly be doing this 100% in open-source software dig dig.
I love the way you say that. Well, we exactly exist for that purpose because we heard that for years.
We all want to design school. We all have backgrounds in Graphic Design.
And for ever, people have been saying, both on the free software side and on the design side, it's not possible to do professional quality work in Graphic Design with free and open-source software.
So we proved that wrong.
So, when you're going to the printers, you're not going to get any kickback that you're presenting in weird formats.
That they're not, you're not compatible, that the whole world is going to end, that you'll ruin their printing process.
We give them a PDF, and they're perfectly happy.
No issue with this.
You know, we have a very good relationship with our printer.
We print in Portugal at...
What's the name of our printer?
Chromotema.
It's called Chromotema, and they love RPDFs.
They love your PDFs.
So it is possible to produce a Leaf Graphics magazine.
How has the sales of your magazine been doing?
Pretty decent so far.
We've sold quite a few of the issue we had out last year, which is gendering flaws.
Still a hot seller, and we have a new issue that is doing very nicely.
And it's a, you produce one magazine years?
No, we're supposed to be quarterly.
We're not doing very well on that count.
So our long-suffering subscribers put up with the fact that our quarterly magazine comes out maybe twice a year if we're lucky.
But we try to be faster.
You know, life gets in the way. It is a hobby for all of us.
So it's got the problem of all good free software projects, which is, you know, it's slow.
So all messing aside, then if the guys from the podcast who have released a magazine, who I can't remember now,
were to get in touch with you, would you be able to offer support to them or advice?
Advice definitely support, probably not.
We're terrible at supporting, but things we already do.
You know, we all have too many jobs.
But advice, we're absolutely good.
Fantastic. It was great to see you here.
And again, the quality of your graphics is absolutely fantastic.
And I look forward to talking to you next year.
Thanks very much. We do too.
All right, bye.
I've just moved up to the top of the K building here at Fostem 2015.
And I'm talking to Ingo.
Full name?
Yeah, well, whatever. Ingo Bauer sucks from JT.org.
And what is JT.org for the people who didn't listen to the interview last year?
Well, we're basically two projects.
We have a desktop client for secure audio and video calls and chatting.
And our second lag is WebRTC video conferences.
And so I guess a Skype version would have the close to the mark?
The desktop client is basically a replacement for a guide, but a replacement that you can trust because it's open source.
And the calls are end-to-end encrypted.
So you can be guaranteed that nobody listens in.
Okay, so what do I need to have in place in order for this thing to work if we wanted to have a Skype conversation?
You need to install the client.
And you need to have either a SAP account somewhere or an XMPP account based, say, for example,
that our demo server, which is chates.si.
But if it's going through your demo server, then all the conversations are going through a third party.
I'm just a third party, I guess.
They will be going through a through-hour server if the clients can't establish a direct connection, say, through IPv6 or through the net opening technologies.
But even if it goes through our server, it doesn't matter because it's end-to-end encrypted.
And you can be sure that it is, if it's set our GPS enabled and you see this green lock on the call window.
Okay, and what sort of type of clients do you have for what operating systems?
Well, there's Linux, obviously, but we also do support Windows and Mac.
Okay, so it's on your platform.
And do you have Android clients?
There is an Android client, but we don't actively develop it anymore because we simply don't have to resource it.
So if you want to hack on it, you are welcome to do so.
And what do they call, what license is the code released under?
GPL V2 or upwards.
Okay, sorry, LGPL, actually.
LGPL?
Yeah, okay, that makes it easier.
Do you know how accessible JITC is?
In terms of blind users.
In terms of blind users wanting to use it to communicate just via audio.
I don't think we made specific efforts for it.
So we tried to have a shortcut available, so it's excellent for keyboard and not just the mouse,
but I guess we'd like kind of there.
So I wouldn't say it's very accessible.
Okay, and if some of our blind listeners notice bugs,
is there a particular, we can just lock them in the bug tracking system?
Sorry, coming in.
If we notice that there are some accessibility bugs, will you address them like normal bugs?
I guess we would.
If you can address them, the video after resources for it.
But yeah, lock them and send us an email or a log about it.
Okay, cool.
How would this compare to something like Google Hangouts now?
Well, that is what UFRTC with their conferences are for.
Right now, you open Meet.jit.si and you're new with the conference.
Just distribute the URL you get there to your peers.
And you have with your conference?
Just to simple as that.
As simple as that.
Okay, and you could pipe it out into the pulse audio and stream it on the internet,
and then you can stream it a little.
Well, anyone that has a browser or a Chrome and Chromium at the moment can join in or record it.
Even there's even a SIP gateways, so that someone with a phone can call in.
Okay, and if I wanted to run all this infrastructure myself, could I do that?
Yes, you can.
There's packages for Fabian around right now.
Yeah.
You can use our server to test it, for example, at Meet.jit.si or set up your own.
Okay, perfect.
Well, thank you very much.
I don't think I have anything else.
Anything else that you want to tell our listeners?
Yeah, we need help and contributing.
So if you lazy and evening join us and help us.
So what sort of help do you need coders or documentation?
Everything, basically.
Yeah, if you're a Java developer that helps, most for a desktop client.
If you're with HTML5 JavaScript that helps for WebRTC.
Okay, and is it possible to run it on something low power like Raspberry Pi?
Or is that too much?
Well, the server actually that we're running here is kind of a small Intel box that runs a couple of hundred streams.
So it's very lightweight on the server side because it's just as likely forwarding unit.
I do much processing from server.
So I guess small conferences should actually run in Raspberry Pi.
I don't know if you have binaries for it available, but I think it should be possible.
Okay, cool.
Well, thank you very much for the time.
Are you going to be doing any other talks or are you stuck here on the boot?
There's a talk this afternoon at two o'clock in the Java dev room.
Chit.c. video page in Kryptoland.
And there's a lightning talk.
I don't know the time now, but also today.
Thank you very much for the interview and good luck with the project.
Yeah, thank you.
We're talking to?
XMPP Foundation.
And you are?
You walk in Lindborg.
We spoke last year.
Sorry?
I think we spoke last year.
Yes, we did.
Some same thing as I'm here for this year.
So it's the second year we're talking about the Internet of Things and the XMPP Network.
That's really become a big topic this year.
Very, yes.
It's sort of the hottest thing in the world for the moment.
Say anything with the Internet of Things.
It's the thing.
Yes, it's the thing to put on your CV.
So what have you got here?
What am I looking at?
Well, XMPP is a federated messaging network.
So the idea and the problem we found is that how do you span all these devices?
In your home, you have a refrigerator from Electrolux with an app.
You have a heat pump, and you have a scale, and you have a Fitbit.
So why doesn't the house turn on the heat when you're cold with a Fitbit?
Well, you need to get the information between all these clouds.
And somebody needs to integrate all the APIs.
And if somebody were to integrate all the APIs,
the business models of the bond-doing services would be gone.
So XMPP being a federated messaging network,
we can let the devices be friends to each other,
regardless of which businesses they are in, or with legacy technology they use.
So letting your refrigerator be friends with your Fitbit,
closing the door when you're too heavy.
That service could be possible.
Okay, yes.
That's what we have loose about it, I guess.
Yeah, and the explosion of these services that we see on an iPhone
is because it's open to do access to the devices and the censoring.
And today the censoring is not accessible for third-party developers.
They are hidden in different APIs, different clouds,
and it's impossible to get data between them.
It's a combinatorial explosion of APIs that needs to be integrated.
Yeah, but everybody wants to throw on APIs because they want to keep everything close to themselves
so that they use their service.
Exactly. So how could you create new ones?
Yeah, we need the federated discussion language,
which would be the XML XMPP stands for.
So what we have created is XML stands as that very thoroughly says,
I'm writing a temperature to you, and it is in Celsius.
So you know that it is Celsius, and you can do something with it.
And I read a value from another device, and I know what it is that is coming.
And you trust them because your friends just like instruments from your friends?
Exactly.
So have you got any cool devices here that you can show us?
What we have is that we have the Philips U-lamps locally,
and we have a gateway to that, and we have devices in my office in Sweden
where we have alarm companies, wall plugs, temperature sensors and so on.
So in that environment, they all look the same.
They are kids, people on the XMPP network, and you can be friend to them,
and ask values and write values.
And you're from the XMPP foundation?
Yes, I'm part of the XMPP foundation.
You work for them full time?
No, no, just on the part time.
But I'm very heavily into this IoT part, which is more or less 10 of the extensions,
currently in draft, or experimental.
Are they going to be published as an Internet standard?
They are already published in experimental level on the XMPP.org.
So anyone that would like to use them, it's just to start using them.
And if you have comments, do comment.
Okay, so I'm doing home automation.
Do you like how a cool logo that I could go to a vendor,
and when I'm shopping, say, hey, that's XMPP compatible?
I definitely want to go with your product.
No, not yet.
Okay.
It would be fascinating to do it.
But then you also seem to this having a member group,
paying things for certifying them, doing the logo stamp.
And we hope that it would be per automatic, saying, I have XMPP inside.
And doing it.
Here's the logo.
Here's the logo.
And it's already there.
And so this would be a difference from the organization saying,
I'm sick, be certified.
I'm part of the SIGB.
I pay 50,000 grand a year to be part of this group.
And I don't think we want that.
Really?
Well, you could work in a full time.
Oh, yes.
Of course.
I would be rich on it.
So have you been making any headway in this?
It's been a year.
Has any device manufacturer come out and supported XMPP?
Well, not on the real device level in services.
No.
But we have several interested parties.
So the Universal Plug and Play have now been giving an XMPP spec
for getting Universal Plug and Play local communication
transported over XMPP to other sites.
So you could be in your cabin turning your video on in your home
over UPMP and the XMPP network.
And the next level will be also to go to devices and connect things.
So it's just going to be there as a enabling technology
and nobody thinks about it because that's what it is?
Yes, exactly.
So there's more areas looking at it.
But there's no person just going, I have a service.
I have a wall plug with XMPP.
It's not there yet.
That's strange, but that's actually what I want.
Okay.
Is there anything else that I missed?
Are you going to be given talks?
I have a talk on Sunday at three in the Internet of Things Room
around the technology and where we are today with the standardization.
Okay, thank you very much for the interview.
Thank you very much.
Alrighty, see you next year.
I'm up here as the K-Building here at FastTime 2015
and I've come to the colab.org booth and I'm talking to.
Roman Edgar, hi.
Hi, Robin.
What is your relationship with the colab group?
Well, the colab group is based in Switzerland.
I'm based in the Netherlands and I'm a partner for the implementation
and rollout of colab systems, solutions, nice business peak,
to enterprise customers, but also just a proponent of an open source
and the model that they have.
So what is colab?
The colab is a group-ware solution where basically we do everything Google does
except we allow you to control your own data.
We allow you to connect it to whatever you want.
So we have email calendaring to do lists, file management,
sort of, yeah, file in the cloud type constructions.
But it's all yours and you can access it from your mobile phone,
your tablet, Mac, Mac machine.
Whatever OS is completely agnostic, it plugs into anything.
If you want to use it without look, you use it without look.
If you want to use the web front end, we have round cube.
This is a big ecosystem which you can plug into everything
and allows you to basically, yeah, get away from the prying eyes
of government and big business.
Okay, so is it choosing iMac or is it using Mappy or what's the email?
We use an iMac back end for basically almost as much as we possibly can.
That's almost everything.
Obviously we do use mySQL here and there.
But yeah, it's mainly an iMac database which also means that you can get off it
and come into it very easily because all you need is an iMac sync.
Okay, and the contacts are kept also used in iMac or is that something else?
The contacts are kept in iMac, but we can integrate with all that for you to keep them there.
So you don't need to migrate everything when you move to this system.
And how was the integration without us, for example?
It's very good. There's an active sync integration.
It's an open source, written one, and yeah, basically it works without look.
And you provide support to customers for this or to companies?
Yeah, that's the business model.
The software is completely free, so if you use a hosted version or if you download an enterprise version or a community version,
the code is entirely the same.
Absolutely.
OpenCore or anything like that.
No, there's no freemium, Pollux.
There's, you know, it's...
Oh no, there are calls are...
No, I tune through.
Oh, dude.
No, it doesn't matter, we're all explicit.
No, there's no freemium, crippled type stuff.
It's all the same code and what CoLab systems makes their money on is in implementation and support.
Okay.
So if you want help, if you want the security of someone being on call and ready to help you,
whenever something goes wrong or if you have questions, problems, et cetera, that's the business model.
That's where we make the money.
Okay, and what's your biggest deployment we've got?
Our biggest deployment.
Our biggest, largest customer.
The biggest public deployment at the moment is the municipality of Munich in Germany,
where we have over 20,000 desktops, cross-platforms, so it's all Windows and Linux desktops,
because we have a cross-platform client.
And that particular instance is, I think they have like 190,000 shared forgers in mail calendar, file hosting, and everything.
So you're talking multiple terabytes of data.
I think over 16 physical servers running last.
We have bigger deployments, but we cannot talk about that.
I'm very sorry.
We have to kill me.
This deployment has been running for years now, so it's a stable proven.
I thought there was a new mirror over there, and all that was going to be thrown out.
He's been told to not be so anti-Linux, hasn't he?
He's been told off.
But the integration with iPads and stuff has not been sorted,
or is it just irregular old problems that you have with regular old iPads?
If you have a problem with the mail client that an iPad has, then you're going to have the same problem.
You can always switch to a different mail platform on the iPad.
There are alternatives.
And if that works better for you, then that will work better for you.
We don't mind what your platform you plug into CoLab, because it will work.
Absolutely everything is open.
I can just call them.
What sort of server would I need in order to run that?
Small one.
Everything from a Raspberry Pi to a VPS.
I can run from my laptop, a multi-user implementation without any problem.
It's very low resource usage.
So why would I use this instead of on cloud?
Are you competing with the two?
On cloud only does file storage.
And we have the whole suite.
We have the file storage.
We also have enter-end encryption.
Something that On cloud doesn't have at all.
We have the calendar.
We have the email.
We have the whole group of streets.
And On cloud only does a little bit of file sharing.
So from our perspective, there isn't very much of a functional overlap.
And I could replicate this to various different things on the back end.
Yes.
Do you use database replication?
Did you see what the database was?
We use cybershymer server.
And if you use cybershymer's murder technology, you can run it or scale it horizontally very easily.
In Munich, like I said, we run a multiple server without any custom code.
It's entirely the vanilla upstream cybershymer.
We are a very active contributor to cybershymer.
Fantastic stuff.
Any new stuff coming through this year?
That's what we need to know about?
Well, we are pretty much scaling up the platform because feature-wise, we've got it all.
So basically, we want users to start using it.
We want bigger deployments.
We are doing our first call-up summit this year, which will be in the second and third of May.
In the Hague, the Netherlands.
So we expect a couple of hundred people there, developing, doing talks and stuff like that.
And basically, yeah, just like I said, the software is there.
You can use it.
It's free.
It's entirely 100% open source.
So basically, we are really giving you your privacy back.
Just use it.
Excellent stuff.
Thank you very much for the talk, guys.
And I'll have a link to that event in the show notes for this episode.
Okay.
Talk to you later.
Good to speak to you.
And please do come down to the call-up summit in May.
I'm pretty good to see you there.
Okay.
Your name is?
My name is Xavier Bostras.
I'm a committee manager for Belgium of the Dunonic Associations.
And you're here showing Dudu Linux.
Yes, that sounds public.
This is an operating system for Sheldon.
An operating system for Sheldon from two years to ten years.
And based on the Debian distributions and fully modified.
And we work activity by activity for the Sheldon.
One activity for a game of years.
For example, from two year to three years, we can learn the most, the keyboard and orders.
We can make association with software.
For example, if the most go on the left side, you can view a line on the screen to Google on the left side too.
To learn the movement, the association of the movement and the screen.
If a litus up here on the screen, we have letters on the keyboard.
We much push on the keyboard for however, the litus on the screen.
And the computer grows with the Sheldon to arrive in an entire operating system with all activities and all new activities.
We can make games.
Under the Linux, we can work in the Linux.
We can go on the Internet too.
To go on the Internet.
We have specific protections.
For example, dance guardians and create.
We have specific for the protections.
All is blocked.
For example, Google accounts is blocked.
Facebook accounts is blocked.
And Sheldon is blocked too.
And then this is very an entire operating system, fully secured for the Sheldon from two to ten.
Okay, very good.
And are there many schools running this?
In Belgium, there is only two schools that was running these operating systems.
Two teachers are very, very, very impressive and will light have more a computer with this operating system.
But they don't have any budget for the moment, sorry.
In France, I think there is two schools too.
They are growing with Dudu Linux.
In the other country, I don't know.
I'm sorry.
Okay, that's not a problem.
And how many developers have you working on this?
We are very poor developers.
We have only one or two developers.
One founder and one person for the community management meet.
And how can we help out with the project?
This is very easy.
You can contribute on the website.
Dudu Linux.org.
Or you can come with us for the development.
You can buy goodies.
We sell goodies for sample USB keys or orders.
All contributions are welcome for the Dudu Linux.
For sample, we run with under 140 euros for one years.
This is very poor.
For four persons, this is very, very poor.
This is the time.
The time is very important to give time to Dudu Linux.
That's most important.
Okay, and if I download this and notice that there's some bugs,
can I report those bugs and fixes?
Sorry, I don't.
Is there a way that I can help develop the project?
Reporting bugs?
Of course, of course.
You can report bugs, all products or suggestions too.
All new games or new activity on the forum, on the website.
On the mailing list, we are open for all channels of communication.
Okay, fantastic.
Thank you very much for the interview and good luck with the show.
Thank you.
Thank you.
You've been listening to HackerPublic Radio as HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday
and Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribution
to find out how easy it really is.
HackerPublic Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club, and is part of the binary revolution at BingRef.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under creative comments,
and the contribution share-like digital license.
