Episode: 1722
Title: HPR1722: Kansas Linux Fest 2015, March 21-22, Lawrence KS
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1722/hpr1722.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 08:14:04

---

This is HPR episode 1,722 entitled Kansas Linux Fest 2015. March 21-22, Lawrence, Kansas.
It is hosted by 50 and 50 and is about six minutes long.
The summary is, we wish to announce a new Linux Fest to serve the Midwest.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Greetings HPR listeners. I am both pleased and proud to announce the first annual Kansas
Linux Fest. It will be hosted by the Lawrence Public Library, Lawrence, Kansas on March 21 and 22, 2015.
More information can be located at KansasLinuxFest.org or by following the hashtag KLF15.
KansasLinuxFest is a project of the free, free, open source knowledge association of Kansas.
And more information on that group can be found at www.opencansis.us with participation from other organizations.
I would especially like to give special recognition to hacker public radio contributor Mike DuPont
for taking the point and making a community event in the Central United States.
A reality. Speakers at KLF will include open source advocate Dave Lester,
Hal Gottfried, co-founder of the Open Hardware Evangelist Kansas City Open Hardware Group,
David Stokes, my sequel community manager at Oracle, Ben C. Rooze, technology consultant for
L.I. Performance, Kevin Lane, technical consultant level 4 at HP Enterprise Services, Jonathan George,
CEO at Boxcar, and podcaster and open source evangelist 5150.
Registration for conference tickets may be found on the KLF website.
Fan tickets are free, but supporter level tickets may be purchased with a free will donation,
which will go towards marketing and food. You will find links on the KansasLinuxFest.org homepage.
That will allow you to follow the conference on social and other media, as well as an RSS feed.
There is also information on how to become involved with the free Libre open source and
open knowledge association of Kansas. On a personal note, I would like to take a second to
acknowledge the passing of an actor who portrayed perhaps the best loved character in modern science
fiction, Leonard Neemoy. Godspeed, sir. Godspeed.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is. HackerPublic Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
