Episode: 1437
Title: HPR1437: 2013-2014 HPR New Year Show 2013-2014 After Show 2 of 4
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1437/hpr1437.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 02:33:48

---

What?
Caryon, I'll crap you did start recording in indignia.
Yeah, he did.
Passed?
Was he?
Oh god, Ken Fallon did too.
Yeah, there's someone out there who wants to listen to you for four hours, trying to me.
Huh, one of four hours quite, but yeah, you know what I mean?
There have been people that have been, you know, upset that I'm no longer podcasting as much as I used to, so.
I am.
They better go and listen to this time because there's loads of it.
I'm horribly upset, 330.
Yeah, you sound like it.
Ken Fallon's back on the thing I was doing anyway, in the chat.
I did have somebody send me a message on IRC about a year ago that was like threatening my life if I didn't start podcasting again.
I don't know that I've ever said anything worth hearing ever, but some people wanted it.
I think they just missed Lennox Cranks though.
But yeah, he did another podcast, was it?
Yeah, those were the good, bad times, where I would go pick a fight with random person in the, it wasn't random.
It was always people I thought had done some horrible disservice to the free and open source community.
And then I would get in a big ass fight with them and then everybody on that podcast would, we created memes as what happened.
I would, I would get pissy with somebody.
And then it would go forever on the show as like an inside joke.
Does this count as a show?
I mean, I'm probably doing that.
Hey, if you ever want to have a good, a good waste of time, try to find the old archives of Lennox Cranks, it was bad.
It was funny, but it was bad.
We were doing it as seasons, but the seasons would change randomly.
So it would go from like season one, then there was season two, then it went to like season four.
And there was no season three, but we kept making references to things that were said in season three that never actually happened.
And then like it was, it was strange.
Yeah, I mean, the least podcast felt bad though.
I tried to, I feel like I said earlier, but I tend to just like listen to music when I can be, if I can listen to something normally.
Yeah, I go through faith, like I'll listen to podcasts and phases.
About the only thing I've actually stuck with is some of the stuff on the podcast network.
But it's because I like hearing fat stoners talk.
It speaks to me in a way that no one else can.
I think somebody is like a 24 hour wonderful 48 or apparently, you know, so I guess some people.
I mean, what you like said that all the time for the 24 hours and that's you go for that.
Except for little break something.
Yeah, a site called Fred.com did one.
They do one every year for a thing called red nose.
It's a charity.
They do a 24 hour podcast where they bring.
They bring people on.
Red nose, red nose, red nose, they have.
Yeah, it can be the same thing.
Yeah, it is, it's the same thing.
It's a charity that's not very big here in the US.
Like we just, I don't know what the hell it is.
I know comedians are involved.
And that's it.
But he does a 24 hour podcast, you know, in the acceptance donations during that time.
For the red nose thing.
Yeah.
Twitter did a 24 hour network wide thing this year where the hosts of individual shows had like an hour block.
And they would, you know, they kind of do what we did.
But, you know, on a much more kind of a sane schedule.
But, you know, they copied it from us.
So, you know, once again, Leo Laporte stealing from from the hacker public radio community.
It's time to get dark here now.
It was morning and whatever.
It's time to get dark.
The day has passed you by.
Yeah, but, you know, it's winter.
Like I said, it's just a rain day.
It's not the only way.
But yes, it's gone, it's a bit past four o'clock now.
So it's time to get dark.
So you know, you don't have to take around just because of me.
If you want to bail, you can.
No, no, no, no, I know, I know.
I'm quite happy doing this, and I'm not sure.
You damn English people with your politeness.
Go for it, K-Wisher.
So, 330, are you still located in Indiana?
Unstinking, fortunately.
Down by, uh, uh, uh, Pegwall.
Yeah, we, uh, we're still too close for comfort.
But, uh, he does no longer live with me.
You guys supposed to get a snow tonight?
Uh, I have no idea.
Let me see.
I'll go for a, uh, winter weather.
I'll go for a break for a bit.
But if you're still on, or whatever, then, uh, my car will be a little bit longer.
But I'll be back in a bit, if not anyway.
All right, take it easy.
No, I'll probably be back quite quickly.
I can see the break from the computer, you know.
I got stretcher ass muscles.
It's always important.
K-Wisher can, uh, chat to you in the meantime, I guess, or whatever.
So, you're, are you still working for that monastery?
Yeah.
What, do you, you have a, don't, if I remember correctly,
once you have a mix of, or, or, are you all back there?
Um, we are a mix.
Everything on the server side is Linux, except for two or three things that absolutely had to be windows.
Um, but it's still their servers running desktop versions of windows, even.
So it's not, you know, there are no, yeah, there's no, uh, server infrastructure being served by window servers.
Um, they're, uh, the, the user land is about, about 70% windows and, uh, the rest is Mac.
I'm the only, uh, the only Linux machines in user land are in my office or in the computer lab.
And, uh, of that 30% that are Mac users, do you have any type of centralized management system for those?
No, we don't, we don't do any centralized management of anything.
Um, I was curious because at the school system, I'm working at where slowly, slowly, and I don't know how permanent it's going to be in the future,
but we now have one lab, one student lab of 30 IMAX, and we have a teacher pilot program going on with 25 MacBook errors.
And I'm finding it difficult to, you know, manage those imaging in them and stuff like that.
And, you know, maybe being able to push out apps and stuff like that.
Yeah, we don't do any kind of that.
Um, really, I'm the only person there.
Uh, we have one contractor that does the, uh, that does the infrastructure stuff, but other than that, it's just me.
So, uh, centralized management has never been something that they've even begun to think about.
Our, our main infrastructure is windows server with, you know, active directory, and I, I, you know, I got centralized control over the windows, test tops.
And I use fog for my imaging purposes, but, uh, I just, we're trying to figure out, you know, some type of solution for the Mac side, because I can integrate.
I can join the Macs to AD find so that the users can get to their, you know, windows shares, their server storage, but beyond that, it's, that's about it.
Yeah, we, uh, we kind of do everything backass word at the seminary where I am, because it's always been done that way, and they don't want it changed.
Everyone is the administrator of their machine.
So stuff happens sometimes, and it's like, I can't believe you did that. Okay, let's visit.
Yeah, our, our staff, our admins, but, uh, lab machines and students use, they're not, um, but yeah, that's why I have fog when staff work up their PCs, and well, I hope you got your stuff backed up on the server, because you're getting a fresh image.
I mean, if I can't fix a problem in 10 minutes and it's getting a new image.
Yeah, I'm lucky that, uh, the people who mess with things kind of know what they're doing, and the people who don't know what they're doing are terrified of the computer.
So it totally works out, no one's screwing with stuff.
So do you have some type of imaging system in place where you can just, you know, smoke it and put on a fresh, fresh image?
No, because, uh, the, uh, the end users all have, yeah, they all have different workflows, and they're always doing things completely different from everyone around them.
So a kind of central image is almost impossible.
Well, yeah, I know what you mean, um, because I deal with, because I, I'm like you on the main dude, and, um, we've got elementary staff and high school staff.
So each building, each, you know, type of curriculum has different needs for software, but what I do is build the image with all software on it.
And if teachers, you know, if I get a mass influx of way, I need this, I need that. Well, then I'll add it to the master image and you get what's on that image, whether you use it or not.
I think my predecessors had been doing that at one point, but, um, whatever system they were using was no longer in any kind of working order.
So in the last two years, all I've really been doing is archaeology and putting out fires.
Yeah, I have a look at fog. It's very, very nice imaging system.
Is it, uh, open source? Oh, yeah, it's, uh, it's kind of in a stalemate for development.
They haven't released a new version lately, but I'm still running running it on Ubuntu server 10.04, because that was kind of the last Ubuntu version.
They supported and have no, no problems, you know, smoking and imaging XP, Windows 7 machines.
So how does, how does fog compare to something like clonezilla?
Well, I can fog is more like a centralized management system. I don't have to go to, I've never tried, I know you can build a clonezilla server, but I've never tried that.
But fog's kind of already pre-set up for this purpose, so you don't have to do a lot of back in, work to get it up and running.
And I can fire up the web GUI and pick a machine and say, okay, this image needs to be amaged and I schedule it for an image.
And if, if the machine supports pixie booting, well, it all, I only have to go to the machine and we'll just automatically reboot and start the image process.
So I don't have to do a lot of legwork traveling to each machine. And so that's one of the benefits of it.
I'm pretty slick, pretty slick.
And it's all free. That's even better.
Luckily, we have only, we are all Dell based on our workstations, except for the Macs of course, but I have, the bad thing is about fog is you have to, well, I'm sure you could do it if you really wanted to do the back in.
Work, but to create a, you know, a stock cis prepped image where you didn't have to maintain an image for each hardware style and type of machine, but I just always kept an image for each hardware base.
And, you know, about every three months, I'll have to download that image onto one of my machines in my office and get it updated and then really upload the image.
So that's one drawback of it, but like I say, it's not that difficult to do.
We have a centralized windows update server on, you know, on our land, so that helps with, you know, keeping the machine even though if I blast an image down, it's three months old.
But it will, you know, automatically talks to the update server and does the updates, the windows updates automatically, but if there's any like Firefox updates or stuff like that, then I'd have to mainly do that on an image and then reupload the image.
And you can also push out applications to with it in a route of merit. I mean, I wouldn't want to push out Microsoft Office with it, but I can do small apps I can push out and changes with, I can push out registry changes, but then I've got, you know, an active directory to do some of that stuff also.
That sounds cool. I'm going to check it out.
It's a little bit of legwork to get set up and going, but once you get all your machines registered with the fog server, that's the hard part because you have to manually visit each machine to
when you pixie boot it, you come up with a fog menu and you have to go through a process, you just start the process of registering that workstation with the server and it records, it identifies these machine by MAC address, and then you can give it a unique name.
And you can group machines into groups like a lab so I can multicast the whole lab of 30 machines at one time and stuff like that.
I've got scripts that they call them snap ends and fog that will run after the imaging process to it renames that will rename it, give it the new host, give it its proper host name and then automatically join it to active directory after the imaging process also.
I think the website is fogproject.org is the website where you can get all the information you need to know.
Could you post that in the IRC or in the chat window?
I see on website that looks like their site is going to be down for maintenance, which is, as you can see from the postings there, it's the first post since 2011, so maybe that project is still active, I hope.
It's a very simple install on a base Ubuntu server install. I've even, in the past, I've even virtualized this server on our VM system.
Right now, since we were virtualizing everything, I had a physical server become available that I moved it over to, so now I've got it on a physical box, but it does work in a virtualized environment also.
330, did you fall off your chair? No, no, just being distracted by things.
You coaxed me in here, so I'm here for the stimulating conversation.
We're kind of stimulating you after, big boy. Any and all kinds.
Damn, but damn, I didn't realize that.
Well, we'll have to keep it family friendly, I think.
So he's in any windows?
Hey, man, Kay Wischer, you're a myth TV guy, and I've been off and on with myth TV only because I've been so involved with DevOps type of stuff.
You know, I had started out with not myth a long time ago, and then that project murked over to, to, it left Debian to arch.
And it's now called, I forgot what the project is called now, but I did want to get back into it.
Are you using, you said, I think you're a Comcast subscriber, had you had any experience with you versus anything like that?
No, I haven't, just, I've, my area where I live, I, I can't get you worse, so I've just stuck with Comcast and using antenna.
Oh, so you actually use over the air antenna, huh?
I use both. I've got quite an extensive myth TV setup here. I've got two back ends, one back end,
I have a silicon dust HD home run prime with a cable card in it so that I can get my,
Comcast encrypted crap that they won't allow, they, starting in the middle of December, they just now quit providing free quam signal.
So now everything is encrypted, so, but that isn't the reason I went with the, the prime box, it was because I wanted to quit running their set top box.
So I've switched to that, and that's, so I still have to rent the cable card for for eight bucks a month, and then, so I'm able to get everything except for like the prime movie channels like HBO and the paper view stuff,
which I don't care about anyway, but then I've got a second back end that's connected to an antenna and I might add like the record, the free over the air digital stuff.
So all in all, I've got seven tuners on my network.
That's, that's interesting, you're still talking, I just came back a little bit, I'll be back in a bit again, I'm just, I'm having lunch and I put about two.
But what is all carry on, I guess, if, if he's the one that chat.
I highly recommend the network based tuners, they're, they're quite easy to set up, you don't have to open up a box and put in a physical tuner,
you don't have to worry about firmware, the HD home run series works very well.
The, like I say, the prime is a cable card based unit and it has three tuners in it.
Then for my antenna needs, I just, since, since the Comcast sort of encrypting everything, I was, you know, recording their, their open quam signals from cable into a box that since they switched, I had, I went and purchased a HD, just a standard HD home run unit has two tuners in it.
And so now I have four tuners pulling off my antenna and the three on the cable side.
It's pretty impressive, I had been tolling around with a Pentium for, I think it was an I, I 80 something, I 810 chipset.
This is like, I'm going back like four, four years ago, when I first set up my myth box, it was a myth back in front and combo.
These days, I'm in the process of trying to rebuild and get something a bit more bus, something on the order of a two core dual core machine.
That's all I really need is a back in with some sort of Nvidia card that understands the, the, you know, the GPU understands the processing that I would need to, to take the load off of the, off of this CPU.
I forgot what that, what that VD PAU.
Yeah, that box you just described would, as long as you got plenty of storage, would, would make a perfect back end.
You don't need much as far as, you know, hardware, you know, the beefy system for a back end, the front end, you could also, you know, be a front end also.
As long as you had, as long as you had it, had the correct, you know, Nvidia card.
I, I think in my main box, I'm still using a GeForce 8600 to feed my TV and it works fine.
So you don't think I really need to upgrade my, my, my box, my processor and all that good stuff.
No, because with the, you know, when it since that came out with the VD PAU library, is that offloads all the video processing to the GPU and it detects, you didn't take much as far as, you know, CPU and hardware wise.
For a back end, well, the front ends were a second advantage of the VD PAU because it's what's sending the signal to the, to the TV.
But as far as, if you were just going to be a back end only, yeah, no problem.
And even if you put in a good, put in a, you know, Nvidia card into it, you could use it for a front end also.
So let's talk about front end for a second.
Well, on my back end, I actually have a couple of tools.
I still got the old TV R250s in there, which I can't use anymore because if you, you already know, Comcast is encrypted most of their channels across the country at this point.
I also have, in there, they old, remember the old HD TV, HD TV tuner cars that came out when they, the broadcast flag was real popular or at least they was threatening the broadcast flag.
I got one of those also. I guess HD 3000 is what I have in there.
Who, what's the, who's the manufacturer of it?
PC HD TV is the manufacturer. A guy named Keller or Killer or something like that.
He brought out this hardware right as the broadcast flag was threatening, you know, to wreak havoc.
And it only runs on a Linux box and I have the first, the first generation HD tuner for that one.
I have since picked up a cable card and I do plan to get the HD prime, you know, HD home and prime cable card as a tuner.
So that would give me, you know, I guess the HD prime has three tuner cards, three tuners in it plus the HD 3000 I have that would give me four tuners.
I think, I think that's how HD prime cable card works. Is that correct?
Yes, that's got three onboard tuners. So you can watch live TV and be recording, you know, two other streams with that one unit.
Now, I'm not familiar with the card you mentioned, but is it, it, it can do digital signals?
Yes, it can do digital oil. It also has quam in there too, or cam, or having to pronounce it.
Yeah, but you wouldn't be able to use that with Comcast, you know, if you wanted to hook up an antenna to it, you could use that.
Exactly. Is it just a single tuner or is it a dual?
I think it's single. I have to look at the card. It's been a while.
I even have one of those, those infrared channel changes on that sucker.
I have a TV deal, so I have a very old system.
Yeah, I just use a, I've got a Microsoft media center, a USB IR receiver.
And then I had there the remote that came with it. But since then, I've switched over to a Logitech Harmony that works with that same receiver.
Yeah, I heard a lot about the Logitech Harmony. That's what I'm looking to pick up as well.
They're very nice. I was in my local Sam's Club, one kind of goes about Christmas time last year.
And they were, they had one of the, I can't remember the model number of it, but it's not nothing fancy.
It just has the black and white LCD panel on it. It's nothing fancy, you know.
And it's programmable, which is what I like, because I could, I was able to program it with Linux.
And you also upload your, the programming gets stored on your account on the Logitech site.
So if you ever, happen to lose it, you can plug it in and download your programming right back to it.
Another possibility for a front-end is to use XBMC, because it has a add-in for MythTV that you can actually use XBMC for your front-end purposes.
It's got a really nice interface on it.
So did you build your own front-end, or did you do purchase over-the-counter shrinkwap type of front-end? How did you do that?
The first system is the, my, was a back-end front-end system that I just custom built. I ordered all the parts.
I did all my research. I even talked with Pat DeVille off of TILTS, because he was big, he's a big MythTV.
He advised me on my hardware, which at the time, the tuners were the biggest obstacle about, you know, seven years ago.
So, and I just bought a, it wasn't a real expensive media center type case, and it sits on top of my ancient rear projection TV, and I'm hoping we'll die anytime soon, so I can get a nice flat panel.
MythTV's really come a long way since I started, and then probably about the same time you started, too.
It's really, really quite easy to get set up and going, especially with the network-based tuners, like the silicon dust units.
They are automatically recognized. You don't have to jump through hoops to get the firmware and drivers just working with it. They automatically work, and as long as you've got a, oh, what's the channel guide subscription schedules direct subscription networks real nice for doing all your scheduling and stuff.
Yeah, the Linhes is the distribution I was going to use on my box.
Yeah, I tried that years ago, I think back before this, what was it called before?
It was not Myth.
Yeah, I tried that one when I didn't care for it, but now I just run stock Zubuntu, and then install the MythTV on top of the Zubuntu, on my machines, as much as I, getting the despise, who Ubuntu,
but it's the quickest and easiest setup for me to use their packages for MythTV and the Mythbuntu packages.
Yeah, I think I'll stick around with the Linhes, only because it has Archen. I had never played with Archen before, and I always liked to get an opportunity to broaden my horizons whenever possible.
When are you guys going to grow up and cut the cable?
Well, the only reason I still have it is because I'm married.
Same here, Ditto.
See, you guys got to get rid of the kryptonite.
If it was up to me, I could cut the TV on Far's Comcast goes and keep their internet only, and I could be totally happy with just what's free over the air and what I can stream from the internet.
Yeah, I hate network television. Only time I have a watch is when I'm watching sports or something like that. Everything else can be recorded, as far as I concerned.
Yeah, I don't even watch live TV anymore, with MythTV's commercial skipping. I don't have time to set and watch.
What is it on an hour broadcast, about 15 minutes worth of commercials?
My wife loves reality, she's reality crazy, and Oprah and all this stuff, so it's a tough sell to get rid of the cable altogether.
I'm here, yeah.
See, I did it the easy way. I was just poor for a long time and couldn't afford it.
That's how you got to do it, yeah.
I'm sure, yeah, choosing poverty to get rid of cable would probably not do well for your marriages or anything.
I'd be like starting over again, go poverty, then you lose your wife, you know, that type of deal.
Well, don't think of it as losing a wife, think of it as gaining freedom.
Got you.
Sorry, I killed it with my own bullshit there for a second.
Hey, so at 3.30, I think you're not far from my residence. You're in that wilderness of Michigan, too, aren't you?
No, I am in the best capital of the world, Richmond, Indiana.
Well, that's even worse.
Oh, yeah.
I think I'm closer to you than 3.30, I'm up around the Kokomo, Indiana area.
Oh, yeah, yeah, that's the big time manufacturing facilities out there.
Yeah, that's a plus and a minus.
You're like, yay, there are jobs, crap, the air quality.
Well, we don't have a whole lot of the air quality issues, but the jobs are slowly disappearing because of overseas competition.
Yeah, that's what happened to Richmond in the 70s.
And ever since then, the only thing we could manufacture is sadness and methamphetamines.
So you must be breaking bad all day.
My neighbor, the place I used to live, my neighbors were.
It was actually bad enough that my girlfriend had read online that you could make meth in a two liter bottle.
So then when it exploded, because you didn't do it right, it would only blow up a small portion of something, not, you know, the entire block.
And so we walked around our neighborhood talking loudly about it.
We knew we couldn't stop them from cooking meth, but we were hoping that we could convince them to do it in the smallest container possible so that they only blew off their arms instead of the neighborhood.
I moved up though. I now live in a heroin neighborhood. That's always lovely.
With different clients out altogether. See, you went from bad to worse.
I went from bad to a whole nother kind of bad. I don't know if it's worse, because I mean, meth heads are...
That's just wrong. Heroin addicts, you know, at least they're kind of chilled out.
It's the desperate thing that gets me about heroin addicts, you know, the kind of desperate pleading and begging thing.
Because I'm kind of the soft-hearted person, so I try to help people and you realize you can't help them.
So how did you go from Brooklyn to all their other places to end up in Michigan, of all places?
Oh, damn, that's a long story, man. How much time you got?
I got time. If you only want to hit the highlights of the weird stuff, you can do that too, but...
Let's just say I opted to serve my country.
So after doing so, I ended up going to school down south.
And from there, after spending XMI years in school, they got offers in the Midwest of all places.
So, you know, I left home when I was about 17.
So that's kind of how I worked out. It wasn't like I had a grand...
A clandestine plan to come out to the Midwest, because I didn't know nothing about this type of lifestyle, you know.
So it was that I came out here for like a higher Desperado, you know, for a job offer. That's kind of how I worked out.
Cool. I always like to hear stories of what brought people to different places, because I've lived in Indiana my whole life.
Yeah, I came from a small town. Our first people of color in my town moved in when I was in fifth grade.
And people weren't too happy about it.
And I didn't understand it, because my mom came from a city.
So like I didn't have this concept of racism or anything. It's like I didn't understand what was going on.
Then we moved from there to the west side of Indianapolis, where my nickname was white boy.
And then I moved to Richmond that's somewhere in between, but yeah, I still get creeped out sometimes when I'm around two-minute white people.
You realize white boys are terms of endearment, right?
I was hoping so, but it didn't always feel like one.
Hey, guys.
Wait, who the hell was that?
It was Pokey.
Oh, God.
Here's some stimulating conversation.
You maybe just think 330. We were talking about growing up and meeting your first black person.
I grew up in this city, and my best friend was half black, but I never knew it.
Like my parents never raised us with that.
And it was so funny, because I just remember when I was a young kid, my dad worked in a youth correctional facility.
And all I knew about black people at the time was they didn't get a fair shake.
They couldn't swim, and they laughed at him after they went swimming in the locker room.
So I gather 330 that you did to the history, or maybe you caught some of the gist of my previous conversation when I was on a little earlier.
So I guess you surmised that might be a person of color.
No, I surmised the year from Brooklyn, and the color thing was just a podung middle of the country thing.
Ah, gotcha.
Yeah, Brooklyn is a majority. I always tell people, Brooklyn is one of the few burrows in New York City that have pockets of white people.
Whereas every other burrow has pockets of black folks.
So if you look at it, so Brooklyn is considered the chocolate or black burrow.
Whereas if you go to Manhattan, or some people call mecca, Medina, however you want to pronounce it, or Gotham, you got pockets of black folks.
You know, whether it be Harlem or wherever else you might be talking about, but it's different, it's different.
Michigan's an alright place to live, it's not like terribly racist.
That's polarized, you know, for sure.
You know, of course everybody knows the well-documented situation in Detroit, but it's Detroit unfortunately the city has never come out of transition.
And as many, many years behind, you know, some of the more advanced cities, but you know, it is what it is.
It's not a whole lot you can do.
I have my own theory of my blogs I've written about.
How Detroit can actually resurrect itself and restore itself, but that's a whole not the conversation.
So most of Michigan is far too cold for good proper racism.
You know, getting the sheet with the quilted stuff underneath is difficult.
I don't know, man. I was in Ohio for a couple of years, and there were two sides of town.
And anybody who found themselves on the wrong side of town in either case was a victim.
It was the first time I had ever encountered anything like that, you know, just growing up in Boston, and then moving up to New Hampshire, like I didn't know what racism was.
It was just something I read about in books, and then I got out in Ohio, and I was just stunned at the attitudes of people out there.
It's one of the reasons I'll never go back to Ohio.
I just couldn't, the whole time I was there in college, I just could not stomach the attitude and be in pain.
I'm going to be lumped in with either group, because both groups were haters, you know.
Well, you realize Ohio and New Hampshire are totally different states from a socio-economics standpoint, also a resource standpoint.
I mean, New Hampshire is a very highly technical.
I guess I would gather, eventually guess, an information age, Mecca, versus Ohio, which is really a rough, rough belt type of state.
Or I was, we'd be lucky to see Russ that it was just corn.
So look, Ohio has a fantastic problem.
It's created 23 of our astronauts, which tells you one thing.
Ohio is such a shit hole that 23 people decided it was better to die in space than live in Ohio.
Yeah, I can understand. I lived in Ohio. I would also want to get as far away as possible, and you can't get much farther than that.
Yeah, Ohio is a huge manufacturing base.
And one of the things, you know, coming from New York, coming up here to Michigan, out to the Midwest in general, there's a whole different dichotomy out here.
There's a whole different, I guess, mine state for lack of better words.
And it is that people here have grown up to believe that they will run to the factory for a new way of life.
And that is pretty much a generational thing here.
If you're not working in the auto industry, then you ain't really working.
You know, that's kind of how most people think.
And this is what they grow up here to do, and that's just so far into me.
And I came from a place where transit is mass, you know, as they say, you know, we call it the iron horse.
And, you know, I just never fathom that, you know, I would be running to a factory.
You know, I just, hell, I didn't even have a damn driver's license.
And so that was probably about, you know, 18 years old or so.
Yeah, I worked in a couple of those factories.
Yeah.
Not much good to say about them.
I mean, they're jobs.
They are jobs.
That is one good thing.
But, yeah, I can't say I ever liked going in there.
Oh, hey, guys, I gotta run my daughter.
Just emerged from her cave.
So I gotta run.
Good talking to you guys.
Yeah, later on.
All right, later on, man.
So I've got a buddy that just moved to Indiana like a year ago from Long Island.
And there are some things that like seriously bug him about the Midwest.
And I want to see if these things are in true for you.
He cannot stand how slow everything is.
Yeah, it's pretty slow, man.
It is different out here.
It really is.
Even Detroit has a lot of southern, I guess, influences because the natural migration path is straight, you know, north to south or south to north, whatever the case might be.
So a lot of people from Mississippi and plays like that in Detroit.
So it's very slow kind of thinking and everything, really.
And another thing he can't stand is people in the Midwest actually look at you.
Like, Joe, he's just walking down the street and people look over at him.
Well, people talk, they'll speak to you on, you know, in some cases.
You know, I have found that to be true.
I never, you know, did a whole lot of that when I was growing up in Brooklyn, you know, it just, yeah, people weren't, not the people were in polite.
So, you know, it's not something you want to do is just, you know, ice grill somebody for no particular reason.
Yeah, it just, it drives him nuts because he's like, he's like, what are all these people looking at me for?
And I'm like, I don't know.
He doing something interesting.
He goes, no, I'm just walking.
Funny.
Yeah, it's, it's driving him nuts.
But, yeah, those are like the two, you know, he's like, it's slow.
People look at me and there's nothing to do.
The diversity in things are, or, you know, there's a derp of that, you know, in terms of places where you can all be eaten, stuff like that, restaurants.
I guess you could say, I'm always looking for geeks, man, and highly technical people so I can talk to them and, you know, exchange information.
And then we can share with one another.
That's the challenges I've had.
When I first came out here, I spent a lot of time with the lug.
But, it says, you know, now I'm married and have a child.
It's been difficult.
So, I'm always going to look out for people that I can talk with.
They've even started getting in and trying to figure out things like this, what do you call it, pear programming stuff.
So, I could do more Python, you know, and learn more scripting and do more stuff like that, you know.
But, yeah, it's a challenge.
It really is.
Back again, just to say that.
Alrighty.
His thing is, he's an artist.
And so, like, you know, you move out to the Midwest because his wife is from around here.
And he's like, oh, you know, maybe I can get something going.
And he's just finding that, you know, no one here has the money to pay for, you know, decent art.
And the artists from around here, you know, only, you know, only do art that people will buy.
So, like, his stuff is like way out, you know, it's crazy and like, you know, like, you know what around here gets it.
Because it's so informed by New York.
Yeah, you know, graffiti culture and stuff like that.
Like, people look at it and they're just like, what the hell is going on?
And, you know, and I used to graffiti like, I dig it.
I'm like, dude, where were you all my life?
Yeah, so you see a graphwriter?
You probably like to get into stuff.
You should get online and check some stuff out, man.
When I was growing up, man, you know, you know, you know, the Bronx, you know, that was where most of the graphwriters had originated from.
And they go back in the days that the trains were not graffiti resistant.
You know, they actually, in fact, one of the chemists that decided to innovate for lack of their words with the MTA,
he got into a patent, uh, sharing agreement with those guys and just made a man.
He came from my high school and there, that development made it impossible for graffiti to stick to the metal out there on the subway.
And so then you had a big change in generations, you know, whether it's graffiti just disappeared.
Yeah, I've, uh, anything that I ever get into, I always go back and look at the history of things.
And, uh, a lot of my knowledge of graffiti came from KRS1.
And so, around here, that's like, you know, people are like, oh, who's that?
You know, what's all this about? How do you know all this information?
And it's like, you know, for someone like you, you're like, yeah, KRS1, he's a, he's a dude.
You know, he kicks around here every once in a while and does some shit.
Chris is the teacher for sure.
Yeah, you did check some of his.
Okay, go ahead.
So you're gonna check out some of his, his talks that he's done online.
Um, he gets into the, to the culture and so the history of all that stuff.
He used to be a graphwriter once upon a time too.
Um, you know, BGP, uh, Coke, Coke too, all those guys.
He used to hang out with them.
Go ahead, I need to cut you off, go ahead.
No, no, I don't even remember what I was gonna say.
Must not have been very important.
I mean, I, I, those are some of the things I missed, but you know what?
When you go out to Europe, uh, that, that culture, you know, graphwriting is still alive and well.
Man, it really is.
It's insane, you know, and like the, the stuff they're writing is, you know, in their own language.
So like, it's all like super crazy.
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Graffiti is, is, is starting to get big in Japan.
Um, there's a big, you know, cultural thing about, you know, you know, you, you don't break laws in Japan.
Because it's, it's, uh, it's shameful to, to do things.
And, uh, but yeah, they're, they're starting to dig graffiti now.
And it, you know, that's awesome looking.
I mean, it's wild.
Oh, yeah, definitely an in native language and, and, and, and native script, or, or, or the native, uh,
it's a term I want to use, uh, the, the native handwriting or the native, you know, that, that, that would be definitely interesting to see.
Yeah, I gotta get myself going here.
I got a couple projects, man.
I gotta learn some iOS.
I'm talking about the original iOS, you know, Cisco switching stuff.
I'm trying to get some switches configured here.
And my basement and I gotta install some slackware here on another box so I can get some things going.
Some work I got to do.
Man, working on the first, that's rough.
This is fun stuff.
This is, you know, my wife and I, we, um, we jointly run a clinic, uh, for a special needs children.
So, I'm the, the operations guide, the, the chief geek.
So, my responsibility is to things, you know, all things that unseen for, like, a better words to, to manage your business processes and make sure things work as they're supposed to.
Ah, cool, cool, cool.
Yep, so, you know, that's, that's what I gotta get on here.
I already will, uh, good luck.
Well, thank you, man. Good talking to you, the 30, man.
I didn't know that, I learned a lot of things about you.
Didn't know that you were graph writing, man.
Yeah, I, uh, well, I'm a recovering graph writer.
Yeah, it almost 30 years old getting caught doing graffiti is not, uh, not looked at what very well.
Well, let me just imagine if you could, if you could do it and, you know, get some type of reward for it, whether it be monetary or otherwise, you know.
Yeah, I, I just do it for fun and, you know, get caught, get caught.
It's how it's always been.
So be it, just, just be glad that you're not, you know, in a, in a rail yard somewhere on a train yard where the cops will beat your ass.
Because no one's watching, yeah, for real.
Have a great day, man.
Are you two?
Are you Kevin? Are you?
Uh, he's going. I might go.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I would, uh, K-wisher muted and deafened himself.
Hey, I, I, uh, start trying out this, um, open dyslexic fonts.
And I found out I'm not dyslexic because these are hard as hell to read.
For some reason, I thought it said K-wisher is now muted and defecated.
All right. Yeah.
To, uh, to be things.
Yeah.
Definitely, uh, something I have to change as soon as I get off of here.
Which, the, um, I got to change that font.
It's, it's German nuts.
I don't know. What, what, where's this font?
I don't know. It sounds sort of interesting in a way.
Uh, I think I've found it at opendyslexic.org.
Yeah. Dyslexia is, is an interesting one actually in a way because, um, people think it,
or the used to think it's like this and it's that and it's this and it's that.
But I think actually it's mainly used to about the reading.
Um, if Ken was here, he would probably have his own comments make on this as well,
but I think he's around the scene.
Now, I think he's, uh, working in the shadows.
But I think it's mainly about the reading.
Even though he used to think it was those other things as well in the past in the 90s.
I mean, things like that.
Yeah. I, I to look into it because, um, I transpose numbers a lot.
And I thought, oh, man, you know, maybe this would help.
But, uh, I can't read.
I could, I mean, if I really focus on it, I can read it.
But otherwise, I can't see a damn thing.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's, that's a really cool thing to be able to be like, oh, well,
I wonder if this would help some minor aspect of my life.
I'll just download these free fonts and try them out.
Is that what you did?
Yeah, just, I just downloaded the font pack and installed it and went in and said it as my,
you know, as the, the fonts to use in good home show and just try them out.
Oh, you're, you're using the name for as well, you know?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I should have for these.
Actually, I don't mind you.
I think I was going to have Polly do the like, what a distro using thing.
But I think I forgot what we moved on and what happened.
I'm using Fedora.
Yeah, so they name three.
Okay.
Oh, yes, Theresa Fedora.
And Bastard, you actually as well.
Yeah.
You know, that makes sense.
Although sometimes people who are become a Fedora ambassador or involved with some project,
you know, more properly.
Sometimes they actually either sometimes end up using some other distro as well,
or they kind of, or they move on, of course, in one the other.
Because I think, you know, like we, yeah, some people move on.
But sometimes you get, sometimes, you know, looking at the product in like this distro, for example.
And I've been there and passed a few times and somebody comes along on the mailing list
or on the IC channels, possibly.
And they're like, I'm from OpenSouth or whatever it is, you know.
And they're like, you know, I really like my dear as well.
And I want to get involved.
But I've got my, I've got my position in the third distro sometimes, it's like that.
But really, I mean, you know, you can be involved with more than one distro.
You can have a door ambassador or whatever one distro whilst also contributing to another.
I mean, it's not like you've got to do only one.
But sometimes people, I think, feel that if they have more pop sessions if you like,
if they then suddenly just like, decide, right, I'm going to also contribute to this distro.
I think they think they're kind of like traitors to that distro in a way, you know.
But it's not really the case.
And also battles back community getting on and all that.
But something else that's good is the whole distro collaboration thing,
where distributions was relipers, distros.
And sometimes it's users as well.
What do you kind of work together and, you know, move the whole thing forward to desktop the next.
And that's a nice thing about FOS then as well, actually, because
we have a cost distribution developer, a dead room there.
And I assume it will be, yeah, 50 days at the next time as well.
Where you have got your main fax and then there's these dead rooms where people
had a patch out in charge of drones.
It's casual, so it was a legal issue and so on.
And FOS distros.
And when I went to the first time, there was a guy talking
who used to be involved with Majeris, moved on to the door, I think.
But he did his talk about the system and the administration.
Harry Sarp, the...
Oh, I'm fucked with that, Majeris, things like that.
And then I missed it.
But that was a good panel talk.
There was a video on that talk out on the FOS 2012 videos.
But there was a good panel talk with the guy from one of the people from Majeris
and Majeris and Majeris from Laura.
And my friend, for now, is a last name.
The community lady from above me is very much now.
Laura adds...
Yeah.
And there was some other ones.
And it was all...
What's nice about the cost distribution everywhere?
Because it's all about the stuff that the panel applies to all of the distros.
And that's what the talks are about, you know, which is good.
Are you still there?
Yep.
Yeah, the...
Yeah, the...
Damn it, Ken.
All right.
Oh, it's Harry Sarp.
That's it.
Ken has came back for...
Yeah.
But every time he unmutes himself, I end up hearing myself repeated.
Did he miss the dyslexia tool?
We just had that.
I saw his lips light up, but he didn't talk.
I feel like I'm haunting.
I'm haunting.
Ken, yeah, yeah.
I feel like I'm going through you, Ken.
You're having issues.
I'm going through the...
Nothing's having a bit of fun.
It's like I'm deer hunting.
Yes, sneak up on it.
He's spying on you.
Well, I'm already...
You know, he's the headbutt.
Yeah.
I wouldn't doubt it.
But yeah, the blind allegiances to distros is kind of silly.
Um, you know, I'm a fedora ambassador and community manager for a...
Slacker media.
And those two things don't really have anything to do with each other.
That's the house, Dr. Media, something else, yeah.
Yes, Slacker.
Slacker media is a distribution by text file.
What you do is you take a base slackware install and run through this documentation.
And at the end of it, you get the best of the open source community has to offer for doing video, audio, and 3D.
Editing and rendering.
All right.
Yeah.
Um, my buddy Klotto, uh, developed this whole thing.
And he sells it as a book.
He sells it as a book.
Yeah, he gives the...
He gives the...
Documentation out for free.
Let me screw it with me now.
It's frankly I called him a pikey earlier.
But yeah, it's pretty cool.
You go through this whole thing and you've...
And it talks to you about not just the software, but how you work with it.
So it'll help you develop a workflow.
It'll help you kind of understand what's going on.
So it's not just...
You know, it's not just for computer nerds.
That worked out well.
And it's not just...
That's not...
He's talking to me crazy.
I think he just doesn't want to talk about Slacker Media or Klotto.
For the overdoer and I've been over for the overtalk as well.
But yeah.
He gave up.
He's no longer recording.
But, uh...
But yeah, Slacker, he's pretty good.
And he's...
He's...
He's...
He's recording my boys.
What do you do to get?
Can you hear me or not?
Yeah, no.
No, I can't hear you.
Oh cool.
All right, thanks.
I was editing the audio for the New Year show.
I'm saying PC is this.
So it has messed up with my audio settings and pulse.
What do you mean the first bit of the show?
I mean the 26 hour show that's already started.
Do you realize that now people on the stream...
There's actually more people on the stream now than the was at the end of the New Year show?
Really?
How many on the stream?
Uh...
There are...
26 people listening.
Well, I know.
They've said I bring a crowd.
There you go.
You the man.
Might not be the crowd you want.
But it will be a crowd.
Yeah, they would like...
Uh, listen to free fatties.
Well, you keep off when we'll keep recording.
Talk to you later, guys.
Bye.
Later on.
Yeah, Slacker Media is cool.
If you ever have a spare machine and a couple hours,
it's, uh...
It's not bad.
Yeah, well, what is it?
He said it sounds like a very different disfowl.
Or...
Well, I mean the right dough in as well.
In all reality, it's a document.
It is a how-to that takes you from a default slackware install
and builds all of this stuff up on top of it to be able to do.
Yeah.
Uh, video, audio, and 3D, creation, rendering, editing,
all this stuff that, like, I kind of only peripherally understand.
Oh, right.
Yeah.
I just want to say I'm going to slackware because...
I don't know.
I feel like you can get it out, but I got...
I'm going to try to re-emach and so on, but...
I think it's because you kind of, you know,
it depends on the UI, but you can get used to these distros where you just, you know,
20 minutes install, like, it was longer in the past than 12 minutes.
But then you kind of get used to the kind of distros you use.
Don't you?
Sometimes you don't need to buy these distros,
and then you might not move on to the bit more pump-fitted ones
or not have such depending on the UI and stuff, you know.
That's that where, yeah, I mean, I think I probably ran some distros
from life you need to be based on it, or from she, you know, whatever.
I mean, I don't really go into these kind of distros.
In a way, I should, but it doesn't just happen, you know.
Say, this is only built on top of slackware because that's
Clot 2's preferred distro, and it's a system that once you set it up,
it will never ask for an update.
Because, you know, being behind in software,
when you've got a production machine that has to keep pumping out video,
being behind is better than being ahead and broken.
All right, yeah.
Are you in the updates a bit more stable if I was saying?
Well, you, it will never ask you for an update.
It'll never go, hey, there's new updates to, because you have to, you know,
in slackware, you are the package manager.
So you go and you find the updates, and you do all of the work for it.
So if you've got a system, yeah.
So if you've got an editing system that is perfectly stable and, you know,
isn't really connected to the internet, you, you know, it's a standalone box.
You bring this, you know, you're bringing your material in on a thumb drive,
you plug it in and you get started.
So there's, there's really no need to update it.
It doesn't touch anything.
It stays within, you know, stays within its own little realm there,
and, you know, never gives you any trouble.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, you can use a rolling, really ass.
Or you can do that, or you can do that, or you can do that, or you can do that.
Anything, it's, it's your own package, like you said.
Then you, what about update?
I mean, do you, do you need to kind of know what, so let's say security.
So normally a distro, you know, you kind of rely on your, your dist, the people
who are doing this, yours, you have to face that.
Or that particular distro, you do.
But if you're a own package, like you're kind of saying for that one,
does that mean that for security updates, you have to kind of know what's out there
and then package it yourself, or what?
It depends on how you use Slackware because there are a couple of ways to do it.
There are package managers that take source packages and, you know,
and will build a package out of them and then install it.
Or you can, you know, the updates are released by the Slackware community.
And, you know, you just, you download a, a, you download source code and you compile it.
I mean, in, in that way, you're the package manager because you've had to,
you've had to manually go out, grab this package, compile it and install it.
All right, yeah.
You know, there are, there are a couple of, you know, things that are kind of
package managers, but not really that will, that will kind of do that for,
you know, you're like, I want to install these things and it will go and find those packages
and compile the source code and install it.
But it's, you know, all it then is a script that's doing the thing that you would be doing.
Right.
So, none of it is really entirely automated.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's, that's basically what I meant as well as sort of,
you know, that you kind of, there's not really automated.
So, if you have to sort of do some sort of, you know, what's out there and what needs updating.
Well, don't think of it as you have to do it that way.
You get to do it that way.
They, they see it as a, as a, as a freedom issue.
You have the freedom to update if you so choose.
If you don't choose to, we'll just leave you the hell alone.
That's what, yeah, so it's a bit like, it'll be sort of a bit like if, you know,
this version goes under life, no more updates officially.
You can then, if you haven't tools to maintain that yourself for the update,
you can all and so on.
Is it, is it a little bit like that in a way?
Because we've got the, which is basically what I mean.
Wait, really, it's, you can put a pair of pants on.
They think you're adult enough to be able to handle your own, you know, your own,
your own packaging.
They're like, you're an adult, act like it.
Right, yeah.
But yeah, but what I was going to say as well is actually some people,
they, um, there's a guy, no, no, see, you're talking for a while.
But anyway, I remember him saying, like, no, well, I really like,
for door call one, right?
This guy, I think it was for door call one.
And so it's 2003, that distro version or whatever.
But, you know, saying this in like 2012 or last year or whatever as well.
And, um, the way he does this guy, he actually, he just, he just,
he's decided for web reason that he would run a run, a distribution
version from years ago.
And then something more modern and up to date and all that, you know,
to support it.
And so what he does is quite simply, yeah, he won't, I don't know if he's still
doing this now, but anyway, he, he runs this, um, distribution old version
and he just maintains it himself's kernel and all the rest of it.
And, and people who are like, for, for done to, that's another one,
they've got to do that now as well, really, if they want to carry on running it.
Because, um, because he dropped support and all that.
And, um, actually delete and, uh, need the developer used to do that,
I think.
Cause I, I know him when I see a bit and, um, that is, that he could be any
move on.
But for that, do you know about, do you know about anything about for
done to actually, sure you do?
I know it exists, but beyond that, I never really looked into it.
My distro hopping days are kind of behind me.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, like to say, it existed.
It, it, it, it, they dropped support for it in last, was now last year,
because the idea was to basically, having for door based distro,
that would keep gloom to him, looking at the real gloom to him,
you know, the, the dead project, not, not mate, whatever it's called.
Um, to have the old gloom to maintain for, as long as possible,
whilst, you know, and they were going to, I think they were going to like,
start dropping bits of gloom when they, um, when they couldn't keep up
to date, because of changes, other changes.
Nice idea, and then it would be rolling, and it was rolling release
and all that.
And it was good for netbooks, apparently, as a guy, my love who, um,
he really liked for done to, so, as well, I always knew about it,
and all that, like this guy, when he said, oh, you know, I've done it on my,
on my netbook, I was like, I thought that's interesting.
Yeah, he went for done to, he really liked it.
But, they, the idea was to keep up to date, with gloom to,
for as long as possible, basically, whilst getting the latest,
then it was carrying all and so on.
But, um, but, but this, they also, they also do,
the thing seems to like, um, system D as well.
I think it was as well.
So, they were, and then gloom relying on system D,
and, or, and ask, they ask gloom free, but,
they, they was, they was made for whatever reason,
and I think the, I think the founder was too difficult to keep up to date,
how they wanted it.
So, they, they, they just, just, they got the call.
Um, it seems that this guy's moved on to, I don't think, anyway,
he was, been doing it and so on.
But, I think it was nice idea, but, that's it.
So, I think we're kind of stuck with, um,
today, with gloom to itself, not mate,
I guess there's only really sent their rest left.
Now, there's something on that, isn't there?
These districts have moved on, aren't they?
Even the, the Debian Stables are called gloom free as well,
and, you know, so, yeah, gloom 2 is,
it's pretty much how they are.
The, the proper one, I think.
I mean, yeah, there are only districts left with that,
sent their rest, maybe.
Is there anything else on the note?
Um, no, it may just be sent us.
Yeah, sent, sent us is probably, probably it now, isn't it?
Because Debian Stables got gloom free now, and, yeah.
This reminds me, actually, Steam OS.
The whole, you know, people were all excited about that,
and, um, the whole announcement of how there would be Steam OS,
and it would be based on a bundle, whatever,
and now it's actually been, now they've got their developer,
preview thing, and it's based on Debian Stable,
we've named for you.
I've seen some screenshots,
but then you need to have, like, parent-UFI,
some curable power pair, and you need,
whatever, so, that's quite a lot to give us out.
Um, and then you can't dismantle your machine,
but there was a way to get it work in the rational machine,
and whatever, and, um, that's just kind of interesting,
in a way, it's interesting, and it went with Debian Stable
for the base, I think, but it makes sense,
because of what they're trying to do, I think,
so instead of going with Ubuntu,
whereas they would normally say Ubuntu for Steam otherwise.
Yeah, and, you know, the Debian Project,
when they say stable, they mean stable.
Oh, yeah.
Well, the distribution,
yeah, that they took seven years to do a release,
because, yeah, you know, it's ready when it's ready.
So, yeah, that may be a good base for it.
Oh, yeah, I mean, that Debian Stable's known 3.4,
you know, that's, and they were on the GNOME 3.10.1,
so it's like, it's about two years behind,
or something, isn't it?
Yeah, but I mean, you know,
when you, when you want stable,
you get stable.
Yeah, they, they don't play around about that.
It just as long as they don't do something goofy,
like, mess with, what was it?
Open SSH again.
Well, that will do in my years.
It's all about stability as well.
It's not to the same extent as Debian Stable,
but it's, it's nine months' release schedule.
If Dar delays that hold up the final
when the Milistane releases,
the beaters, asses, or alphas,
then, well, yes, there will be delays.
And there'll be, if delays long enough,
or whatever, they'll, in general, they'll be in announcement.
It's all very open.
They will do a blog post and say,
look, we have delayed this release
because of, or this Milistane release
because of why the release blockers.
Um, but this, you know,
this one's very much so about stability.
That's the whole, that's,
um, one, one reason for the,
well, that's the nine months release cycle
and also because of, I assume,
it's due to the amount of contributors.
It's not, because it's a community distribution,
there isn't, it's all non-profit
and it exists because of donations
and people giving up their free time as well and tears.
There's obviously, there's not quite as many contributors
as certain other distros that, um,
the nine months release cycle,
that, it works, it works quite well.
Obviously, I said that there will be delays,
it needs to be delayed, but, um,
it's just, one, actually the other thing with my dear,
when I, when I decided to join,
um, I will get more poppy and bold.
Obviously, I, once I did that,
I found out certain things about more stuff
about the projects and so on,
and, um, so on.
And it's just, I just think it's,
um, I think it's just awesome
to be involved with something like that,
because when you, when you just use a distribution,
in general, a lot of people, um,
when, if you're just a user of that distribution,
and you don't really follow the distribution,
and what's actually going on in the,
in the, like, development process,
and so on.
Like, the quality show, what's happening there,
and the packages,
somebody says what's happening there,
and all that kind of stuff.
When you, when you, when you,
when you're just a user of it,
or pretty much,
and you don't really know what's going on
in the background,
you, you just kind of use that distro,
and you just, you know,
you just, whatever you might hop off
to another distro even.
But, when you, when you get in bold,
with a distro like I did,
with a distro like I did,
with a distro,
I've, I've, like, real,
I found out certain things,
I've, I've met certain people
now since then as well,
but they're who I'm bold in this project.
You just, you just kind of realize,
you just, you kind of realize how
impressive it is to actually make a distro
in the first place,
especially when it's, like,
a community distribution,
because it's like a jigsaw puzzle in the way,
and you need to have all these
pieces put together,
and that, and, and to kind of make a distro
and make something that's good enough to release.
And that's, and that's, yeah,
the community is very much so about,
um, release quality.
Now, you might think, oh,
an alpha is an alpha,
and nobody deals with suspected
to be used for testing
and, for, for, for bugs and stuff.
But, here's the thing,
even the alphas,
they go basically through the same,
pretty much, the same,
uh, testing,
as the final beliefs will get,
because what happens is,
it's like, uh,
it's like, fight,
it depends, I mean,
depends on what bugs are in there,
what release blockers are in,
these millestones and so on.
But, they can be up to seven or so,
at most, they can be about seven or so,
uh, internal quality insurance ISOs,
or testing, right?
And then, once they've done that
and done some bug reports
and got some bugs fixed and so on,
they'll then come out with the alpha,
so, to the public.
So, before, there's even,
for these millestones,
even come out,
and then the final release at the end,
there's all this testing done internally,
and that's,
and that's impressive,
because, especially when,
the team is,
is actually quite small,
compared to,
compared to probably quite a few other different,
because,
it's just, it's just impressive what people do,
because,
then, some of these people are,
and they really are testing all six ISOs,
or whatever it is,
there's like 32 bit,
and 64 bit,
so,
the classical install ISO,
when installing all these desktops,
and so on,
the live CDs,
live medias,
and, you know,
there are people,
the people in that course show
it's a team,
they actually,
there are, you know,
at least some of them will,
not necessarily everyone,
but most people do,
test most ISOs,
but,
some,
people really do test
every single ISO,
pretty much,
and,
they're going through all this testing
internally,
that's kind of,
it's sort of,
it's sort of there
in the background,
you don't really know about this,
unless you've
followed what's going on,
and so on,
but,
and then they get two
of something that they think is,
good enough to release,
it'd be an alpha,
a decent,
healthy,
and,
and then a final eventually.
So, you know,
we've got a mid-year,
um,
before release,
scheduled for release
on,
the 1st of February,
time for Phosdem,
after nine months
of development,
so,
I'm just,
after all this testing
that's been done
internally,
and so on,
and,
and, you know,
I,
I,
um,
for sample light,
I just kind of,
I think I just kind of
tuck it for granted,
sort of like, you know,
okay,
there's six months
release cycle,
there'll be a,
there'll be a new version,
um,
there'll be a new version
in six months,
and,
you know,
but, when I got involved
with this one,
I,
you know,
I know what's going on
in the background,
and when you know that,
it's kind of,
when you know what's actually
going on in the background,
and you're,
I think,
I think,
I think,
a lot of people would find it,
it's hard to just,
kind of,
take it over granted,
and just think,
oh yeah look,
uh,
the few months will go by,
or,
well, I mean,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah it's,
well,
my point was,
quality assurance teams do, they are like between the packageer or the police managers
who tend to be packages as well, the packageer you can say and the user, the standard user,
and the quality assurance people are the link between them in the middle, they have to,
the packages do their thing and then the quality assurance people test it and do their thing
and then they also release development ISOs to the public and then there's testing
about takes for more bag reports and so on and you know when you know what's going
on in a distro like that it's and then when you know even the issues at times you know
it's like when you know about some of the issues that have been going on in a particular
distro or project and you know the reasons behind that I think I think that's more or
so it makes it interesting as well, it makes it more fun and you realise you're like
part of something and you're doing your thing and yeah it applies to any project that
really but when you know what's going on it's hard to just take something from something
you know that's just software, that's just a distro because that isn't the case because
these distro is most of them have been made by so many different people putting things together
and of course you have team projects as well and it's just it's just yeah it's just amazing
what is done what can be done but what's also what I think also is amazing is the kind
of people who will contribute to these projects at times you know sometimes you get people
who are who are ill really ill for example they could have cancer or something and even
so when they when they're well enough or if you know they they are doing they're still
contributing to that distro a bit packaging or testing or whatever it is and it's kind
of you know some of the people that and you think and you think why and sometimes it's
like why are they doing that why are they doing it and they're doing it because they think
it's a good cause and it's you know it's a good cause and that's why people do and you
know it's kind of impressive people are giving up they're doing things that that I guess
doesn't really wouldn't really happen in the case of closed-door software and normally
because of how it's made but in case of open source it can happen you can get all these
interesting people involved with these projects and that's why I think is it from different
walks of life I think the same goes and that's what I think is is really good about open source
as well. Yeah I've always said that you know a group of dedicated you know dedicated being
a nice way to put the way that some people are fanatic about creating software or just
the kind of general you know they work at like a feverish pace you know like like the software
is going to run away from them if they're not you know if they don't get it done. Oh yeah yeah
that really only happens here because you know in the proprietary world you know people are
working for a check and yeah you'll get some fanatics and you know but but even those people it's
seen as a as a kind of weird thing for them to be that fanatical about it where you know on our
side we're just like hey you gave up 14 hours of sleep to work on this cool beans. Yeah yeah
there's almost like an artisan quality to open source software it's yeah it's it's done by
people who love it you know for you know their own uses and it happens to be useful to others
and things like that. Yeah but not just the development they were packaging but the I'm a good
example in the way of like this I mean it was less technical contributions can or can be can
lead can add up and lead to different things or a result in different things so for sample I
decided like I said earlier I think that but I'm going to join the marketing team and then I got
into it and then I became a definitely the other team I thought wow for emailing list votes
all back and then I got when I went to an event as tall and I went and then we're going to
log eventually and should in the way I can work because to the one earlier but on the other hand
I think I went at the right time to get to the log so I knew about for about two years before I
then went and then the log result it actually the log resulted in binding about this event I
talked about because I was on the mailing list and then something else happened and I am
instead of like meeting actually on that day and then I ended up finding about another group
of like speaking and stuff public speaking and you know and so I'm now going to this other group
and sometimes and it's all linked isn't it it's all linked it's all kind of linked to the whole
tech interest and stuff but it's just it's just kind of it's just sort of like it changed my life
because because it's like could I just I went with you and then that linked to that and then
that thing to this and then I linked to that and yeah and that I think is interesting as well
and it's sort of like fun yeah it is never bad for a for a CV when you walk into the place you say
so I've been working either with or on the open source software and the community that's involved
for x number of years you know employers really kind of look at that like oh that's
pretty big but I think it's we end you're well sure but for the less for the less technical
contributions I think it can be a bit harder because you it's like as I said marketing or
information or whatever it is you know because you can't say look I contribute to this code and
this is my code or something like that maybe you've done a speech or something you can also have
a video of it and or sample and but that's the only thing my other point was make is a lot of
the time I think people kind of ignore the or isn't taking that seriously they think right software
even open source you know you think right software is about codes about packaging in the case of the
notes but what what what people forget at times a lot of time actually is that actually open source
sort of free software is a lot more than just code and packaging and the technical stuff
because as I hope the boss start you kind of need your marketing side because what's the point
having all this great the so-called great software if hardly anyone's using it for a start
so you need somebody's kind of promoting get it out there but if you know for the
otherwise it's kind of like who's going to use the software and then also a lot of projects maybe
not the Linux kernel but as such but you know they need that work you know if we're destroying
the background or branding and icons for the projects need this and that so artwork is part of
it as well there's less technical contribution a good one that gets ignored though a lot of the time
is documentation people ignore documentation or they don't really take I mean they don't really
take it that seriously so what what I say obviously the great example here is what for start you
got a lot of programs you can read a man page you can name the term little but then the website
documentation tends to be lacking for actually mature is a bit of a mature is a bit of an
interesting one for this because now there is a docs team and they they do a really they do a
really a few people whoever is but they're really great they do a really great job of what they
actually do but it's sometimes it's a bit like documentation is still lacking because of
whatever but on the wiki anyway but what actually they're doing a great job of what they actually do
but my point was in in general documentation is sort of ignore people think oh you we don't need
to have we don't need to have all this documentation we call in it over these techniques open source
projects because of whatever or maybe because we think oh we think you can figure out themselves
and all the rest of it but sometimes you do need documentation because poor sample well
somebody whenever it was now early on the new year shows he was talking about a technical
program I think it was something he was going to do something quite technical and he needed
he needed some documentation but they you know it was all lacking you know and yet and he can
yet to figure out things for himself so much and we can we can do is what he wanted because
of the documentation was lacking even when it comes to something basic as I had to figure out
how to remaster magia more recently because of this anyway so I thought no magia is a district
that is it's not really you don't really get remastered so you actually didn't know what a remaster is
when I mean remastered for us you mean like a a respin or a remix that kind of thing yeah well
yeah basically take the official ISO and then add in whatever packages you want so it could be
carried out it could be programs that average people want pre install and so on so so I was like
so they did you know they wanted to remastered for this event so I had to basically figure out
how to remaster otherwise my thing would you know not be in push-all actually as one of the chosen
districts so I spent I got you know I realized pretty much straight away I realized hang on
that I've never actually made a remastered for any district before not even the so-called the
districts that more commonly get remastered or whatever like a bun two and things like that and
so I so I pretty much realize I think you better stand out straight away oh I think think I'm
going to be able to remaster this one or not so easily because there's no so I realized there won't
be the documentation really not so I spent some time in November trying to figure out how to
make a remaster and you know it got it got it got frustrating at times because I could I
because when it came to other districts that will want it and so on that was easy enough you just
typed it in into Google whatever and it came up with info you know they're not for this one
so I had to um so I went to I see you know I went to mailing list so I just get asked if anyone
you have to remaster it I went to I see as well now somebody who replied and he made a
made a nice um guide for remastering it using her program but not the like official program
of any way so I did all I did all that I and um and I made something and so on and and
and that eventually because I had done this discussion and this discussion happened um somebody
decided to uh move though there's an old guide on on one of the Medrieva mangeva sites
and um that was out there I didn't know at the time but anyway it suddenly decided to move that
over so because of the discussion and so that's just one example there was and when I was looking
up actually there was there was nothing really out there nothing came up it was just an old form
prep from 2011 like let me say like I really like magia how do I remaster it and you know
it gets a bit it that's just an example I'm using but this would apply to lots of things
it can be it can get a bit frustrating if the documentation isn't after there isn't isn't
I mean isn't just out there and sometimes it's for things that you kind of think you know what
there should be this documentation it should be easy available but it's not because based
because somebody has because no one has bothered or ever to make a you know a page about how to do
this particular thing and that's you know it can be bits frustrating and that's why documentation
is important and also um I found that I really I found something else less well it's now
less year 2013 I um found out that um the uh those those a guy who came to our um documentation
team mailing list from magia and he basically said um we we actually got an event we got an event
in America somewhere for people who are doing um open source documentation and um you're
invited to come along if you can come along basically and I saw this email and I thought you
know what that is that is pretty interesting that there's actually in a specific event
for open source documentation now you wouldn't expect that would you
be slow yeah absolutely um I don't know that I wouldn't not expect it I mean
seems like uh the kind of thing that that's going on all the time in the open source community
yeah we've got some people coming back here we have verbal verbal I haven't seen before
and I also see I see Popeys back there as well
um but yeah documentation is important in or can be because without because otherwise you
yeah you need documentation of these programs obviously wasn't really what people get problems
and they can't use the program in certain cases even best now one makes that a documentation
then you know and then just to get the essence or if your documentation is out there but it's
not really in a place where people are going to find that in certain cases then they can be
last as well and welcome back Taipei it's a verbal hey hey how's it going doing well uh happy new years
same tea that's still going on so anything exciting coming up in 2014 and that way not too much um
I uh in about another week or so well January the 11th I'm going to take the second part of my
ill-picked test so wish me luck on that oh cool cool so are you doing this for fun or for work
uh mainly mainly just for fun because you know I think I I'm pretty you know I've been
using Linux for a long time but I don't I don't really have like any uh certifications or
anything like that so I says hey well I might as well just go for it because you never know you know
if I uh apply for something you know they might say okay well what do you know and I'll just say hey
here's my certificate I mean it's just easier that way I guess yeah I was uh I was telling
seep seep seep there's three of them um except except seep seep seep seep that uh
yeah just being involved in this community can help you get a job yeah he had made a delineation
between uh or he had made an assumption that I meant that being involved in this uh this
community meant being involved with just coding but yeah when I got my job I told him yeah I've
been involved with the free software community for 10 years and they were like oh cool and I go yeah
and I'm also involved in this project in this project in this project I didn't tell him whether
I could code or not I just told him I was involved and they were you know they were impressed
and it's probably one of the reasons why I got the job so yeah having a certification makes that
even easier oh yeah yeah I've been involved with Linux for about 10 years saying that there's a
place in the lamping kind of possibly well do you if I can do something for them if all of the
smirk if I can do something now because they use Linux at this place and they do some networking
stuff and so it could be interesting to see if I could get involved with that yeah that's I
think that's a lot what a lot of people assume this is okay well if you're gonna be doing Linux
or something you always gonna be like coding but that's that's not really you know that's not
really always the case I mean you know you could be yeah and like a land administrator or something
like that or you know running a mail server I mean there's there's tons of different you know places
where you can fit in we yeah we can do some promotion stuff or whatever you just do as a hobby
but it has lots of kind of what I'm saying yeah there's all these different aspects and you know
there's marketing promotion there's artwork there's translation there's documentation
there's a lot of these different aspects but what I also said earlier basically is that
what happens a lot of the time what seems to happen anyway is that the the other aspects of
an open source contributions contribution or you know the non less technical contributions
they kind of get ignored it's kind of like it's all about the technical stuff at least the job
seems to be you know that that's not really any jobs in marketing of promotions of open source
projects and there's not really going to be no only graphic design jobs when it comes to like
right gonna use gimp and we're gonna make open source graphics or you know all translation or
yeah don't say that to anyone that works at red hat or canonical or anything like that because
those people would be very upset to find out that their jobs don't exist well yeah okay maybe
a conical and red hat sure there will be some of these jobs I'm sure as well but and I mean like in
general it's kind of like that these aren't really these jobs out there it's kind of all
the stuck on the technical the serve admins and the network admins and the and things like that
and that's kind of a shame if you have a you know if your schooling is in marketing because that's
what they're looking for for marketers is do you know yeah did you go to school for marketing then
if you go oh and I've also done marketing for this you know for this Linux distribution for like
five years you know while I was going to school I was also working on this here are some of the
things I did while I was there that will raise you up a bar you know above the other candidates
because you've you've already been doing the thing you want to do well yeah or or sometimes
even if you didn't get saying like even if you didn't get your degree in computer science or
marketing or whatever it is right maybe you've been doing something linked to the interest to do
with open source or whatever and then you still get into the job or whatever it is but you know
depends doesn't it because but yeah you don't necessarily need a degree to get the so-called
dream job or have you want to call it and and the other point actually is to even nowadays even if
you have a degree in whatever it is they're not necessarily going to get a job in that because of
the how many other people are trying to get a job in that and so on you know well it's all about
skills and if you if you've been doing something and you have the product to show you obviously
have a skill someone coming out of at a school they might have a portfolio of assignments they
worked on but it's not you know those assignments really aren't tangible assets yeah if you say
you're doing you're doing you're doing graphic design okay well I yeah yeah I was on the art team
for food distro and I worked with a small team of about five people and came up with this entire
the the the the scheme for this entire user interface here here's some screenshots check this out
that's a portfolio well yeah well yeah you could say but this and that for this distro and put that
in somehow if that's what you mean as well yeah it's you know um we're we're getting to the point
where almost everyone has a degree like there are people flipping burgers and McDonald's that have
a four-year degree they're becoming kind of you know passe everyone has it but it's the same you
know there are certain industries that are going yeah look this degree thing is not that big a deal
IT has kind of always been one but you know working with the open source community you you gain
skills yeah that was my point even as a hobby as well even as a hobbyist though you don't even have to
be involved with a distribution just as a hobbyist there are so many opportunities for you to do
weird things with your computer that you'll start to do this yeah and you'll get help from your
friends so I mean how many Linux nerds you know that have like a like seriously complicated home
network setup yeah they've got they've got a basement full of servers and you know they're they're
running four or five websites off of it all because they needed something to do yeah it's it's not
that you know you know they thought oh I can you know I can turn this into a job someday they were
like man I surely want to run my own mail server because Gmail kind of sucks me anyway that was
my point because it what I certainly I said it earlier basically but um that's the thing with
open source we all three software women and say is that it can it can be you know can it can
open up so many different opportunities to people depending on person you can get involved with
this and that and it just could then lead off to something else and and and this is really
open to anyone really who who wants to get involved which is the the nice thing about the whole
thing as well I mean was you need your skill or whatever and you're going to decide what you're
going to get do what you're going to do but you know it's kind of like open to everyone people including
people who don't have their so-called computer IT degree or whatever it is you know and and those
and it can be from it can be a step for them as well to get involved if they want to do that and do
that thing and that that I think is a great thing and and of course now with the whole internet
thing and all the rest of it you know it's all so it can be really it can be a big global
international thing as well which is interesting as well say the thing that people have to realize is
I'm a third time college dropout the furthest I got was in a degree in psychology
and I got an entry level job I mean it's entry level but I'm I'm being paid fairly well for it
I got a job in the IT industry because I had a certain set of skills that they needed
you know they they needed someone who would look at a problem and hack on it and it's like well
I've been hacking on things for about a decade now cool let's let's do this give me money and I'll
make weird magic happen oh yeah yeah basically what I was saying as well you can drop out and
you can still um then bold and become might you become you know that sort of thing
say now I'm not telling people to drop out of college you know unless that's the thing
unless that was already no one's going to drop out yeah but I'm saying my point was that you
don't necessarily need to agree anyway to become whatever you're going to become when it comes
to open source or or could be other things as well um but yeah it depends do it like who you are
what life opportunities you got and where you are as well but and stuff like that but I know
possibly who you know and things but that's how it isn't it well the important thing is whatever
you want to do later on start doing now you you don't have to be paid for something to do yeah
yeah yeah yeah start doing it yeah that's why you know that's why I do my some of the
media stuff I'm not going to pay to do what I do with it and it's for geostuff but it's what I
want to do so you know that's why I do it here and there but it's yeah uh I have a lot of
friends that are artists and uh I tend to steal things from them because for some reason
standing in a room with paint fumes tends to make people really deep um they you know they always
say you know you don't become a great artist because you hid from life for four years to get a
degree in art you become a great artist by spending four years not having to deal with the real world
and doing whatever your art is all right yeah yeah yeah same with um the a lot of the uh
computer stuff you you you don't really become a great um program or whatever it is if you're
just doing a call so you have to kind of you know have to experiment at home don't you and
high things out for yourself and uh or in general I guess a lot of the big computing breakthroughs
in the last 30 years have come from people who were working on their doctorate in computer science
and thought man if only I could do food and bar easier my my dissertation would almost write
itself and so they worked on food and bar and then went oh my god I could make millions of dollars
doing this screw my degree and they started a company yeah yeah but also um and another kind of
like a side point that is that um the other thing could go with your thing sort of is that um
obviously now would internet and all these uh open source tools out there could be server tools it
could be uh you know whatever is needed really you can you can you can you can pretty much start
your own business and you can start you know there's a software is out there you can you can start
you can use it to um you know start different projects or maybe business and
to help you do that you know it is and it's not that's pretty much what happened with Google wasn't it
all about me yeah say verbal as a uh as a proper adult what do you think of all this
well i think it's true i mean i i think i mean i i think i got i got into Linux because i i
i thought it was interesting i've always liked computers and i i never really got into it's
saying oh wow i'm gonna you know make all this money and um it would just something that i
liked and and uh i mean i've i've been using computers since i don't know about like 85 i think it
was and it just through the course of of you know just using them and learning about them and
people would say well we need somebody that can do this and i'm like yeah i can do that and
it just been you know that's how it's been you know what about uh actually poopy if you're still
here how did you get into the whole like a band two and so on stuff i wonder i um my i i was using
Linux for a few years before when two came along and um i started off with red hat i think
before fedora existed and um one of my i was having trouble with rpms one of the guys in my
local Linux user group say no you should try devian it doesn't have those problems and so i switched
to devian he was right um and then a couple of years later um i was having a problem with devian
and he said oh maybe you should take a look at Ubuntu it looks quite cool and that was just as it
been announced in 2004 um and so i looked at it and i downloaded the iso and installed it
that was it i've used Ubuntu pretty much exclusively since 2004 and then i started i think in 2006
i started doing lots of super answering loads of support questions um on launch pad and it got to
the point where i'd answered so many of these support questions that i'd clocked up more calmer
um the calmer points you get in launch pad for everything um i clocked up more calmer like by an
order of magnitude than any of the developers who've mashing made the product and that was just
through me answering support questions um and um yeah then i got more involved in community and
eventually um two years ago i got a ping from mr shuffleworth and he said would you like to come
and work for us and i said yes so yeah simple as that yeah that's similar to my store well
this will start there because i started off with uh for door or two somebody like introduced me
from uh school install open source thing at in 2003 and then you know i was still in my family
computer i was 17 so 2000 and full and then i got 17 still and um i got the old one old family
computer and then and then pretty much straight away i realized you know what okay it's my computer
now i can do whatever i want so i downloaded the um i the ISOs for door or call full and then sorry
for door or call two i just downloaded the i says this friend this guy just said the new slack
web he never really told me what district he's just said no you have to pick your name this
straight so i picked between debian and for door or call two for door one because it basically
said it was all free on the site and so for free is in price i didn't mean about the software
freedom stuff or i searched just yet so um i downloaded the full ISOs put it on my computer
old computer 128 megabyte ram and you know and it took like four hours to install and i couldn't
use it online because i didn't have this i wouldn't have wired and i had this wireless device
by dad put in and i couldn't get that using working within it so i had to use xp for internet for
a while and then um not uh and denooks for do you like other stuff like open office and so on
and um then i was going to work for somebody possibly and i needed uh uh uh uh uh uh internet
connection so i got hard wired and that meant and then but thing is well because i always knew
and this is the days when the things were a bit more complicated than they are now so if
when grab went wrong that basically meant i had to um be installed the whole thing because i
didn't know how to fix grab i'm sure some of you remember these days as well and um the so i skipped
for door call three put for door call four on and that was on there for while but then
things went wrong again and then i'm thinking oh i don't want to do the whole flower install
thing again and all that but then somebody else from school he basically said to me you know what
because it's 2005 now so he basically said to me you should try out this um a bun to it's uh
it's quite poplar it's quite good and it's so i put on the first bun to uh i'm sorry the
second release for a bun to and i used that quite happily into uh around two thousand
minutes two thousand nine sometimes thousand nine let's say and then things moving and then i
and then things i start looking at why the distrares and so on again and and so on from there really
well about the other two if there's still air oh okay if we're doing the how did we get into
the next thing sort of ended up on that well i started with Linux back in 98 99 with slackware
yeah co-pursons up what happened to free fatty in rebel i killed them i'm still here i'm back from
the dead dang zombies think cover two what are you doing canadian new years for like another three
weeks is it i have a headache i don't know that has to do with time but okay it has nothing to do
with time has to do with what i was uh doing last night while i was on the show ah so do you get
to celebrate two new years you know is your wife okay with that you get to celebrate american
new year and then canadian new year i think they're the same thing and it based on time zone
well you guys screwed up thanksgiving so uh you guys canadians don't know when things giving
is either yeah don't let me in with that stupid group it would be don't lump you in geographically
your canadian now yeah do you speak celsius do i speak who what it's celsius
no i'm a proper american all right this place where i'm going is minus 30 celsius
yesterday so it's freaking cold hey man you're the one that moved to the great white north
if it's this on great and white but i don't know about the new year's thing man i don't really
give a flying float you're like yay another reason to drink in the middle of the week absolutely
keeps you from being an alcoholic i don't have a new year's and a reason to podcast it seems
isn't that first anyway yeah i do about one podcast a year it usually lasts about six hours
i think uh three thirty it's been doing one for about six hours now actually seriously
oh is it five oh when it became one about five six hours yeah it's it's
so as soon as you got to work no no think i'm working on new year's day shame on you
i am i am white middle class that shit ain't happening you should be a money grabbing horror
i tried to be but i just really can't care that much about
paper that has no real value that's why you get hashes that have no real value
and trade them for paper that burns first day back tomorrow yay i go back friday
i have to be back tomorrow although the two weeks between christmas and new years i was
quote-unquote working from home nice get paid for that working from home uh-huh sweet
i i'm salary so they they pay me the same amount just broke up throughout the year so
whether i work or not they pay me back at conical but pay me it's not quite like google
parent google's got all these nice offices isn't it but what's the only one like we mostly work from
home yeah i mean we've got offices but i i almost never go into the office only when you need
from work set an office but he does like 80% of his work from home you only go into the office
when you need human contact i think he only goes in for meetings you're like i'm starting to talk
to myself maybe i should go into the office yeah i already took to the cats too much see it doesn't
work for me my office is in the uh so i work for two seminaries and so all of the administrative
people and all of the the professors are in these two buildings and i work in a completely
separate building that just has a computer lab and classrooms in it so even when i go into the
office i'm completely by myself i've thought about starting like a google plus hang out and just
being like hey people come talk to me for the love of god could be fun maybe so i've got two hard
drives in this laptop and at the moment it boots uh one of them has got um a one two on it the
other one's got windows on it but i i've realized that i never really used the windows partition
no the windows disc so i'm thinking i'll wipe it yeah back up anything i need wipe it and then
i'm not sure what to do with it then
do you can you could put you could do a boot with mana distro no i don't i don't want to i want to
use it as part of the storage of yeah my bounty system i just don't i'm not quite sure what the
best strategy for that is oh right yeah um what did you use lvm to create your are your
partitions part of an lvm no it's just one giant exd4 partition you could you could make
that so you can make a home partition or just resize it or something like that problem with that
is that i've already got home on the first one at least these two drives are both the same size
they're both 240 gig so you could just copy everything that's in your home drive now to
drive and then mount a new drive where home is right i'm okay with actually doing it but i'm not
quite sure i'm the value of doing that given the vast majority of my space is in home
so all i'm doing is moving from one drive to another it's the other way or you could just
keep permanent have you the drive is a an additional data partition or something
yeah i could mount that somewhere under home i guess and put my like work stuff or something in there
i don't know that's that's what i was trying to figure out where would be the best place to mount it
i usually just throw all my extra drives in uh yeah i think sandy finally cut me off
i think there were cool things again for life anyway yeah
well it was a six hour long recording so it was time to actually restart it
yeah six hours
and there was no longer the 26 so this is no longer the 26 hour podcast it's now up to like what
40 some 32 26 plus six why don't we just keep it going like people just keep rotating in and
out and we'll see if we can you know how far into 2014 we can go who has no life i do i do
yay carry on but actually we're all going to die out later on tonight UK time or something like
that or american time because of some of you in different time zones if if something like that
but then they have to stand for another six hours because you set that free free
i don't have to do anything i don't recognize any authority let alone yours
i'm figuring out probably die out sometime tonight but again uh
let me guess right now there's so between six eight or nine hours somewhere in there
yeah it could be if people carry on tagging and stuff
i'm trying to like bring a big enough group in from irc to get them talking so that i can leave
yeah good luck bringing those recluses in here
if you want 50s back in irc yeah i still die yeah
he's had like four and a half hours of sleep at this point i think
yeah but it might it might have just been the computer though just reconnecting or something or
don't quite but no because he he mentioned that he was actually back
all right let's see i've had all of six hours of sleep
so i haven't sleeped well till you people it rudely awakened me at seven a.m.
and with fifty one fifty we apparently let him sleep too late he said
that if he'd stay to sleep the first time he wouldn't have slept late
well six hours ago he was on here drunk as a skunk yeah and that was more than he was asleep
i wouldn't say that was after he passed out the first time going to get a beer
i like having that guy around no matter how out of control my drinking could ever get
i wouldn't be able to beat him makes you feel good about yourself
you could probably handle your drugs a little better
well i got this really nifty carrying case for him
if this lasts another um well make that just under six hours right if it lasts that long
well i'll have the whole of the first of January in um
u t c d m t in the uk so that's kind of something because that's sort of the middle time zone
or okay just fourteen hours ahead and twelve back now but i think that would be something
yeah we could win some kind of award useless we get if we did twelve hours we'd have all the
u.s midwest then one another two hours to finish up to the west coast so another would eight
hours is to finish up all the u.s there's no way i'm sticking around that long these headphones hurt
my head way too bad you'll do eight hours um uh do you say eight hours
it's really small than that isn't it oh i'll be i'm talking about midnight at the end of
lavertime zone but did i say eight hours i mean i'm at fourteen hours
during the fourteen hours seriously i didn't say what i did fourteen hours it is said i'm talking
about fourteen hours to get all the u.s in if it so happened to happen i think it could happen as
long as somebody keeps on at least two people at any one time as long as there's somebody more
interested to talk to you than three thirty i'm game i don't know my milkshake seems to bring
all the boys to the yard yeah it's about it don't bring the girls okay waste and i'm going to
take that back because you have to actually go all the way to six a.m. my time six a.m. central
tomorrow morning to get out of america no no no that leaves out at least though doesn't that
that's eight hours times or yeah that would leave LLL out wouldn't it plus i mean it's closed
no no no no no no because i'm looking at the last time zone that we would just went through
and the last time zone is some small region of the u.s bigger island and howland island so
that's that that was six a.m. in the morning today so that's when i actually got up and left
after we get done oh and you're oh yes and you're time not my time that's right yeah
you're you're time yep my time which would be i mean it'd be basically GMT 1200
well yeah that'd be something actually it'd be like two days
if we really had to fill up two days cobertoon i would have to talk about pegwalls
one shirt oh lf you might need to get 50 on 50 on an intravenous feed of booze or we could talk
about ltm you heard that i actually got a reference to that in okay it's just sad that y'all
laugh at that just from the acronym i can see all the pictures of my head
okay that bet you they look cool on acid okay so what is this ltm ltm
and a dear friend of ours had a had a website dedicated to him by dan washco
um that uh was okay sometimes sometimes sexually suggestive okay i got it now yeah yeah
okay it's that infamous phrase around the the dang soundy go to bed i just got up man
me too i slept for six hours 50 150 just time travel no doubt it was like one minute i'm in
the kitchen the next minute i'm on my face in the living room and six hours passed i've time
travel before why did i did make it to this is pretty much accurate oh my gosh dan updated it
is it back it's bad don't look at it it worked i'm looking at it i'm not even using uh incognito
film mode because i'm a badass that and that'll be on your headstone he was a badass
he looked at lemon tuna mouth and didn't give an s i still have that front picture god that's funny
yeah if you stop there it's still funny other than that it's just scoring man this hasn't been
updated these are all old really because the last one i saw were like psychedelic yeah i'd done all
the psychedelic ones i'm so glad this is back online you have new home page
swine fluid all right actually on to something that has uh substance uh and now for something
completely different yeah absolutely i'm looking for a tool preferably in c++ or something
you need a tool like no further than pig wool biggest tool on the planet
you know stab you in the eye with a sawter and eye so you're looking for something written in c++
yeah that uh just downloads uh rss feed and pulls all the attachments off of them
pissing out there is bash potter actually that's a bash script but i don't want to uh pull down
podcasts and stuff well bash potter work for any attachment any attachment that's an enclosure i'd
think i don't know if it uh would do any like you're talking any reference like uh web page or
anything like that probably not no not necessarily web page but it might just be a link to like a
torrent file or nzb file and uh why does it have to be in c++ because c++ is fast
actually you're limiting factor there is your internet connection more than anything else
no my limiting factor is ram but Mike i just uh to see now yeah there's a the three new
new year's channel just by i kicked out of there just over two hours and a bit ago four o'clock
but that's everyone though so yeah so everyone three new year's but we could carry on them here
but i don't know if anyone went in there probably not it was just kind of like uh um uh kind of
a bit of a very kind of bloody spammy with um text out or basically ssi or whatever it's actually called
um stuff like that um but um but yeah it's still new year's kind of so we can might as well carry on
with this yeah it's new year's day here so yeah i thought this new is day
by the free night one is over that was my point until next year well that sucks
we're still going strong yep like i found out rss reader called newsputer but it doesn't appear to
have any uh auto downloading capabilities it just queues up stuff so i'm trying to run this on a
router so that's that's why pythons not gonna work why you just write one i'm no good with that man
well that'll give you something to do well i'm about to be working 12 and 16 hour days but all i'll
be doing is work sleep eat all right we're up to 8.5 gig of recording now but i still but i still
have 200 gig of available without expanding my file system wow really eight gigabytes
yeah quite a bit 8.5 and that's all in flak
flak flak that sprains it because that's the big the bigger files and odg and mp3 because apparently
the quality is better but um i don't know it doesn't anyone actually notice the difference between
like different file formats or sound seriously because to me music is pretty much music on
whatever i listen to on when it comes to that oh i know the difference from music stuff but
for voice stuff like this and it's a little bit better than a telephone so not really the only
reason to use flak here is because it's easier in terms of editing getting it into audacity and
that because it doesn't have to expand it as much so it doesn't use as much memory all right yeah
yeah it probably makes sense because the files already quite big it's called the quality and that
is that what you mean as well yeah it's only about you know 10 15% smaller than a raw wave file so
it's not that much you know not too small so it doesn't actually have to do as much
um decompression yeah are you putting the thing together or a skender in that or whatever
all bits of average recording has parts i think Ken's doing it right now but as i said keep my
recordings just in case yeah yeah we need the backups when you could go wrong and use all
lethal many keep our recordings even once he's once i see the episode start coming out next week
although when your name here doesn't say recording but you're on another one i assume or something
my name here it says it has the record like turned on
yeah yeah actually does i was looking at the wrong person or whatever
masha looking at myself i looks right but yeah yeah you always just fine
hey speaking of pod catchers what is everybody using now i have been using beyond pod for a while
and i really like it on my phone but i think i want to try something something new just to see
what it's like um instead of distro hopping i'm gonna be uh pod catcher hopping i'm using
g potter best potter all the way i use a man potter i'm not really listening to enough podcast for
special podcast software or not in a moment because i've turned for music this thing on the
computers um but um i will should be playing this in um clementine i expect even though i'm
actually a gloom user so i'd like to know him free but clementines are music or audio player it
seems to be quite nice and then there's yeah i mean there's there's a nice player it's really when
it comes to that but yeah clementine or it's good enough but saying that um i i never really used
goes it would always be kind of like oh no you should go and use am or rock not rhythm box because
am rock is better or all these candy people would say that but with am rock i never really um i
don't i never really go into that i never really liked am rock but i think clementine is based on
am rock as well or something like that or forked from it maybe even if you're gonna be worried about
what people say about your music players you should at least get paraded by people that are doing
something different like if i said am rock you should be using c-mews well see what's that one
g-music browser all the way baby mpd c-mews is a uh incursus uh terminal application for
managing playlists and stuff you don't use beats i don't like beats they're gross you
got someone else in the channel by elixir it some with a little crisp person it seems to have a
less um but yeah come do it oh there you have come doing it yeah but what was that sorry
i'm from jupiter broadcasting calling all right you're volume to a low-bud is that better
not at all a little bit more we're doing 48 hours or something like that apparently
yeah is this um chris from the limits action show no no no not even close by the way my volume is set
up all the way there you i don't like it but we can hit you you're you sound like you're calling from
jupiter well maybe i am well then maybe that's freaking awesome well and you're not really chris
u-s-a are you i'm chris u-s-a in jupiter there's a u-s-a in jupiter yeah do you know that
it's right in the middle that big storm it's right by the big red dot it actually really explains
pebble it does chris actually lives in the east coast chris that does uh minnex action show
i live in the midwest oh yeah what part of the midwest uh Utah okay see i'm i'm from Chicago so i would
i don't know i would just consider for me Utah would be west yeah it's about as west of the midwest
as you can get all right whatever right i don't know i just call it midwest because i don't know
whatever is that in which time zone is that is that in central or mountain mountain
okay definitely west your west mount mount mount switch uh you're talking to a bunch of
so i'm talking to a bunch of people and it's like i just like yeah they're mountain times and what
what's that is like the like seven hour behind uk one or i mean i don't really know about that one
yeah that's gmt minus minus seven more about california what's that one that means it might
miss eight but what's on the other side yeah let's pursue is i got a name is all oh yeah specific cause
eust pacific man on this mountain that i didn't really know about eust central
eust central mountain pacific yeah it's mountain that i didn't know about so it's interesting
oh i mean i need to time them with that but i didn't know the name but yeah
same reality midwestern is more of a feeling than a location as long as you kind of hate yourself
just just a little bit like just the this little bit of self hatred that you can't get rid of
you've got the midwest down well that self hatred and massacres streak you know those two combination
right there just a little bit of both yeah i think slipmots from the midwest
so random persons from uk or canada i canada which which one are you from random
canada you know that country that never does anything well
except supply a buttload of oil into your country every country does that though
cover it earlier you were talking shit about having to live in canada don't be trying to defend
them now you got to choose one side of that border or another oh no dude i straddle that
pounds covered is there still a wild turkey shortage up there what are you talking about i'm
a united states man i don't have to straddle any reporter no he's talking to me bud
and i said crazy wait there was a wild turkey shortage in canada
the both i know there's a shortage in new bronze wake i don't know about out here
is that the bird or the drink the booze that's what i was talking about oh uh they they brought it
back they got the one with the higher proof that doesn't taste as good typical canada
you know my daughter just moved to canada so we were going to send her like a birthday gift and
uh we sent it the um i think it was FedEx yeah FedEx and even the slowest um you know shipment
was like just as gosh awful price and uh we said well don't expect too too many things from us
you know why you're in canada because you know they wanted us to declare everything on the
form and everything i'm like this is too much of a hassle you know it's it's terrible
yeah and don't send any more than what was that what country do you live in
i live in the u.s. in Chicago and she moved to uh winnipeg
and how much does it cost to ship to canada
it's it's it's i don't know it was just the small item like we were going to send her pair boots
and a scarf and something else it's not really a large heavy package but it wound up being like
eighty dollars through FedEx yeah shipping in canada is outrageous uh verbal if you want to send
stuff your best bet is uh postal service us postal service and uh try and send small stuff
at a value less than or at a declared value less than sixty dollars and then she won't ever get
nailed with uh customs fees and stuff um UPS has good rates and FedEx is the fastest it will always
get their own time does amazon have uh stores up in the UK are i mean up in canada
yeah man we got amazon dot c a we even have amazon prime without the streaming
so what i was thinking as if next time you could just order through amazon dot c c a and have amazon
delivered straight to her from there that's a good idea that way you don't have to pay any shipping
well i don't know it still might be a little bit but you still pay outrageous shipping compared to
the us even if you order straight from amazon and have them delivered to her house unless you have
amazon prime if you have to have a uk version of amazon prime or are not uk canada yeah you have
to have the canadian version if you have the us version which i have it doesn't work in canada
so how cover two how long have you been in canada
god just over three years now three and a half and what was your biggest uh shocker uh that
was different from living in the states no white gravy no white what gravy white gravy
oh white gravy i thought you said gravy i'm like what the heck is that
yeah it's all brown up here they don't know how to make white gravy no where i'm from if you see
brown gravy that means it's burnt and it's in it's all runny it's not nice and thick and
like their biscuits are pretty crappy up here too they don't know how to make a good buttermilk
biscuit unless it comes in a can then it's not good right because it's not all made
oh pillsbury's got some pretty good buttermilk biscuits
what about the cost of living in comparison to when you lived in these states was
isn't more expensive this is highly dependent on location depends on where you are and
what you do what about your your location uh i'm in calgary right now cost of living in calgary is
fairly low lower than where you lived in the United States uh no it's more expensive than
where i lived in the u.s higher minimum wage uh minimum wage here in calgary in in Alberta is
9.50 minimum wage back in Georgia's like 7.25 7.50 there's some places in Seattle who's
washing on the news that's raising their minimum wage to $15 an hour yeah how much is a gallon of
milk going to cost there i don't know i don't live there so i just was watching on the news
probably eight bucks nine bucks uh here two liters of milk which is roughly two quarts
will run you right around four bucks is two liters are two quarts is half a gallon right
yeah it's a little more than half a gallon so a gallon of milk would be like eight bucks
there yeah it's about seven seven fifty pound of cheese is around 13 that's Canadian dollars versus
US dollars right which is pretty much on par right now yeah one of the other things that uh she
said that was strange was uh i i think it may be a good idea but um i guess they had to like
pay for their car to be like um immigrate it and um i guess you have to you know winterize your car
and everything and get some special block heater and things like that and it it it would just
going to be like really expensive in the car you know isn't really um you know i didn't think it
was worth it but uh it's not worth it unless you're buying a brand spanking new car okay not worth it
at all yeah but then she finally said she had a friend who would uh do it for for like uh you
know one-third the price basically yeah here in Calgary they don't have uh inspections and stuff
like that so if you buy a car you're good for the first ten years and then you have to get a
safety inspection or if you bring the car in from out of province or if you bring the car in
from across the border in the u.s then you have to get a safety inspection on it and that's
basically a government mandate that says the mechanic can charge you whatever the hell he wants to
and tell you whatever the hell he wants is wrong with the car and you have to pay it within 30 days
oh that that just sounds terrible yeah it's there's pretty much little things like that in each
province and each one's different in New Brunswick you get a safety inspection every year regardless
it's like an eighty dollar tax every year just to have a car this sounds about the same as the U.S
well Georgia we don't have those I know and in Oregon they don't charge taxes for anything
but once you take your car and move to another state they charge you tax on that and well I guess
they also charge really high rates for land tax yeah taxes are different for each
each different part of the country like in Alberta the the only province in Canada that's not
in debt taxes are pretty cheap it's sales tax here is 5 percent property tax is pretty expensive
because everything has oil underneath it and in New Brunswick taxes are 13 percent and property
taxes are cheap income taxes pretty high I think me making around 30 grand a year I was paying 25
tax on that my wife who makes 60-ish she pays 52 percent good gravy socialized health care you
still want it we're trying to switch to screwing this over it's socialized health care is great for
anybody who doesn't have a job and doesn't make money and is below the poverty line everybody else
be food barred I disagree with that statement in the fact that if I don't want health insurance it's
my choice not the governments and you don't have that choice anymore sir well I know I'm just saying
that I don't agree with the bottom line of the democratic party saying that everyone should have it
it's not something that should be forced even though now it is I understand that it is I'm just
saying there should be a choice well I'm not arguing that I'm arguing that in here in Canada where
there is socialized health care everybody pays for it except for the people below poverty and the
people who don't have jobs but they still get health care seeing here in the United States I've
read stuff that says if you're in car if you're in jail like an actual prison you don't you're
exempt from a bomb of care so now not only do we pay for them to live in prison we have to pay
for their health insurance all the more reason to push capital punishment it helped with that
overpopulation and the world thing too I don't think that the world's overpopulated I think that's
a false notion you know there are areas that are more densely populated than others but overall
the world is not overpopulated yeah come to Alberta you'll find out just exactly how unpopulated
the world is you know I heard you could fit everyone in Texas from the United States in Texas give
them like two acres and still have land left over yeah everybody in the world yeah I heard that on
the radio recently so yeah why is why why is everybody talking about an overpopulation especially
in the US you could fit the entire population of the world if you put four people to a house
and give them a quarter acre of land basically turn Rhode Island into a massive subdivision and
everyone in the world will fit in Rhode Island Rhode Island that's hard to believe for person
household quarter acre land it seems like Rhode Island is a lot smaller than that it is small
but you're talking seven billion people divided by four which is
what almost two two hundred fifty million and then divide that by four again that's the acreage you
need divide that by four is almost 70 million right 60 millions I think it's a like 6.1 million
or something like that Rhode Island one could accidentally Rhode Island's approximately 776
thousand acres so how many how many did you need let's see there's seven billion people
and how many acres Rhode Island is seven hundred seventy we'll call it seven seventy seven thousand
multiply that by four oh poke poke is back yeah but not for long my family we're heading out so I
would just pop it into stop the recording and say good day and thank you to everybody good day
we're gonna go for apparently we might be in for 48 acres now apparently well that's only
if we're really crazy enough can be done as long as somebody keeps on chatting at least two people
at any one time that yes quite quite a lot of hours if that's done as long as somebody's still
reporting is really part of the bigger thing and the recording as well of course yeah so it's three
three million one hundred eight thousand yeah yeah you need four hundred thirty seven million acres
and Rhode Island is only less than a million acres so that's not correct it's only seven hundred
seven hundred seventy six thousand was it seven seventy seven yeah if you round up like a few
yeah so you're way short given hundreds of billions of people in the world there's not a hundred
billion there's only seven all right guys I'm gonna stop my recording and log off here but thanks
to everyone for sticking around and being cool yeah see you guys later back soon take care
all right now I'm trying to figure out what numbers I had or where I got their numbers from
seven billion is is uh twelve zeros right yes no seven billion is nine zeros
oh you're suffering the cause of any bokeh yeah already did stop it I was just thinking I heard
the same thing once but it wasn't Rhode Island it was like the um like the Midwest the the great
basin area of the Midwest that's what I thought I heard but I could be wrong too all right I'll see
you guys later so we go left now I think I saw Ken light up as well actually
you hear me yeah loud and clear nope you're still here oh I see where I screwed up it was uh
if you give everybody four square feet to stand you can fit the entire world's population in
Rhode Island no four square feet maybe like tight squeeze tight squeeze everybody move in
verbal my friend how are you doing fine that was uh that was also assuming a world population
of 6.6 billion so I guess you could fit it but they couldn't live I'm wrong you'll never hear that
again never let the truth stand in the way of a good story if it weren't for those dang numbers
I'm pretty sure I could have argued that one into the ground I could have actually gone the other
way on you because I would have said how much land is it actually take to produce the amount of
vegetation or food that would be required to sustain a person depends on what you're eating
there's oh for a single year there's gonna be a minimal amount and it's gonna be in the acres
like I think for each person it's probably around three to five acres of land required to produce
enough food for one year not even close man you can live off of what you can grow in an acre easily
done it before well I guess too it depends on what you're eating are you eating just grains are you
eating meat because then you have to figure out okay how much land do I need to feed this cow or
these chickens if lands at a premium you're you're not gonna be eating meat you might have some
chickens for eggs but that's about as close to meat as you're gonna get then you also had to consider
that the what you're gonna actually grow on the land because you can't grow the same thing all the
time year after year without actually screwing up the vegetation without actually screwing up the
the properties of it so you actually have to rotate things which then means if you're rotating
things that means other people have to grow different things for you so you're gonna have to keep
things going and actually rotating them around and you're gonna have to have more land that way
see they make this awesome stuff now called fertilizer usually get it from somebody that grows cows
and the way you produce fertilizer is you have more land to actually get the cows actually create
that so you're basically scaling yourself up every step you go you guys still go like
yeah you can grow cows now yeah I was just thinking yeah I don't know this one you want
yeah no they're trying to see it now what did you say at the beginning Marcus you go
like still doing this yeah he's still doing this I would have put you at the finish last night
yeah yeah we might turn to 48 hours we're not sure yet but maybe it kind of just like
carried on on and on and yeah I seriously doubt it me and free 30 kept it alive about two hours
early on our own I think but yeah tuning into a proper chip room but you know I didn't
chat to any from one from Australia before but that's you actually isn't it are you from Australia
I'm an easy older yeah what bus really okay way different country oh New Zealand yeah
well sort of the same area kind of from uh well you might know one from wax and maybe
um yeah yeah trying to place it but I'm not being so good I'm not American so yeah no I think
a bit I mean so what are you guys been talking about apart from growing cows
just loads of random sluff I guess really different topics
well you've been very quiet sorry sorry I'll just be the thing hey William you probably can
bro cows now with DNA testing him and they actually done that isn't that called a clone yeah
a clone yeah well they didn't someone come up with a like a um meet from a cow that they can
actually grow which can actually make like 150,000 hand videos of something from one cow
well they have the technology to grow me but the whole point was that the substitution was that
you could actually fit all the people all seven billion people on the earth in a very small space
and that you could actually live and the need that wouldn't actually work because every step you go
you need more space more space more space so by the time you actually get to a reasonable amount
of space to actually grow enough food and have enough resources and you know have everything set
up for people to actually live you would actually I'm guessing you would need at least enough
spaces about the size of the U.S. to actually support all seven billion people in the world
mainly. Yeah, the islands quite self-supporting so I reckon we could have actually survived
actually if um used a nuclear holocaust so we didn't live off the land like um our farms are
quite well seen up and we've got quite a bit of a free space that we don't use and we're quite
self efficient and we also export cost of stuff like the seeds so um like you know as far as um
food is concerned so we've probably one of the few countries in the world I think that would
actually survive on our own if we needed to so our population's not there if they compared to
S.I. because we're really at the size of the UK we've got four million so um it's a lot
different than the UK is 60 odd. Okay so where have my farm? Why'd you think I'm from?
I used to see I'm like Prick and Pung guys so um I'm picking I don't know if some we are
if some we are in the UK so where I'm in the East. Yeah, yeah, England's yeah so that's the answer.
I mean I reckon Australia would struggle because Australia haven't got a lot of food
and they've got hicks of lead but they haven't got a lot of food all that and so I think it's all
depends on how you farm it and Australia have got a habit of just letting things go and just
over a wide range you know a large to sort of have free range animals you know rather than farming
because they can't actually do farming on the land because it's so hot there so um but here we
just farm you're all year round so um you know you have three other cows and one you know one one
lot then you know you also um most of the farmers will have their own garden thing going on and
growing your own food anyway and then you have um you know so I mean I think New Zealand's
probably one of the few countries in the world that actually could survive. Also we are quite isolated
so um you also could live off the ocean as well. Yeah yeah um I guess so
also no one would want to bomb us in any way whether it be a bomb it'd be a place to space.
Is it really hot over at the moment because you go like summer haven't you in the opposite
to us. It doesn't really get hot hot here but even 20 degrees is quite warm because we can um
hide the um you mentally what we have some sort of doing to you it doesn't really
you don't get hot hot but some food. Yeah that sounds like the UK like 20 degrees is 20 something
is kind of hot and if it gets 30 that's like a heat wave. Well we're at a certain
o'clock in the morning now it's probably 13, 14 um we'll get up to um I like to get up a
few days today it depends on um on what sort of day there's and how much one we have so um
because when New Zealand is quite windy overall um and it depends that most of the hot weather comes
from up north so high you are um in the island like um in the Northland they get quite good weather
but the lower you are like if you go down to the portago they get really crappy weather so they
probably never see the sun but um I don't know why you've won them up down there and you why
but um yeah um so um it's all different really uh it all depends on when you are in a country
oh yeah on the west coast of the North Island so um the quite we get the uh we go quite a
wind and we also got mountains next to us about Teranaki so uh we get quite cold here coming off
the mountain um so uh but it can get quite warm and humid you get thunderstorms you should get
many tornadoes here um it's a bit like um somewhere in the west in the middle of the west
where you get those thunderstorms sometimes we don't tend to get any storms here although
that was while it was just kind of stormed best the issue but yeah I don't think there's anything
to you major here oh we get we get really random weather it's like pouring down the rain
for about an hour really heavy thunder and we find the rest of the day um so we get a lot
flooding and stuff like that we don't get really a lot of forest uh fires and stuff like that
because this is not um we get too much rain but this doesn't really uh the rain comes and goes
but um um yeah obviously it's quite quite random weather we never know what what the next
days that are brewing really the weather forecasts get the weather weather wrong all the time here
have you always left New Zealand oh yeah no I've lived around the North Island but um I've always
lived in New Zealand I think it's a great country to live really it's um I'm here mainly I'm quite
isolated very because my wife's family and my wife wanted to move back to where her family is and
she got a job managing a beer king store here so um she wasn't managing one that I'll
I'll pass where we were but um and um she quite she quite she she quite likes it so um it's all
good but um and it's nice scenery we're around like um with the mountains and stuff and
everything's on the fricking home um um I'm used to like something flat it doesn't really
suit me too much but I walk a lot and it's just it's not a big thing I'm not a big fan of it
we've got the ocean though which is quick next to us which is quite good there's a nice beach here
in New Zealand but um yeah it's just I don't know it's just different it's actually like being in
a different country to where it used to be from I'm from a student's city and you know a couple
universities and everyone in there used to be a student in the same population um around 67 000
but most of them were students and I just found it a lot more easy going so also it was a
great city it was just quite flat and um yeah really we really didn't need a lot of chance
for us it was 40 minutes from one you know so down to the other you can just walk everywhere so
I actually felt and the bus was free because with they had a lot of students so I never really
I need a lead to drive mainly because of that so I never really needed to hear some pain
so in 43 so I'm thinking maybe I need to lead to drive yeah you didn't there's I don't know
it's there's one of those places that a lot of people want to go to you know aren't anywhere near
New Zealand so you're up and I assume America comes on as well and then um I'm Australia obviously
as well for that one um actually well this is different living in any of these places that's
supposed to be so interesting to me or to tell me to visit or apparently um we're quite
one of the people think New Zealand's quite substance like dude will but we're a very one encounter
you probably yeah I was wondering that but I was thinking that as well because cinema is all
less to it as well oh yeah I mean if I wanted to go to movies I've got movies to film and buy
an iPad and buy an iPad you know it's talking about modern technology but um like um you know we've
got shopping centers we've got you know we've got big wee houses stuff we've got um yeah the big cities
have the big buildings just um most of the dwellings in New Zealand are really single story houses
like we don't we're not really intellectually quite wealthy um like we're we're in a three bedroom
house um and we're quite happy with the two of us so we've got um we've we've got uh they have
bush surrounding us on top of a hole at the moment so um it's a lot different um yeah it's just
there's nothing poisonous in New Zealand like nothing can kill you I think it's not
there have to worry about snakes or spiders or anything um and I mean there's nothing really
dangerous in uh in the woods either and the the thing that kills most people here is cold um
there's a lot of people die from hyperfinia when they go up to the mountains they just not
appear for the weather so um it's probably my dangerous thing yeah I think yeah uh well yeah
cold could be yeah they're cold for me dangerous snowy mountains really you know you go up and you
get some mad weather and you get to be stuck on the mountain and all the rest of it we get that
amount especially down the staff island like there's a whole big cage mountain range right down
the middle of it and we get people stuck on um you know mountains we get to go up and there
shorts or you know shorts and a t-shirt like all of it for a time no all tourists like they have no
idea just um um um well so everything yeah so it's probably it's probably the most dangerous thing
here it's just people just need to be prepared when they do go out to put out bush and stuff like
that with the weather wise and it's quite hard to pick tracker but with the two
are we going anywhere else here you still look on a bit quiet that's right I'm talking um
the other thing here too it's talking to sneaky lunatics and he was reckoning was going to move
here one day um he was thinking about one year moving moving T2 I mean he goes I'm not moving
here because of the crime rate but down because he watched he read some newspapers they'll use
papers here all they do is just talk about crime like the crime they don't talk about anything
else apart from crime and sports and let's do that so it says a lot worse than what it actually is
it's more than national yeah it's not just what's happening in the city it's like the whole country
so it looks a lot worse than what it actually is that's probably the worst thing with this I mean
I think people just get the wrong impression of these are what sometimes we don't have any gun
problems we don't we have no one no I'm sorry I'm with any guns or anything like that so um oh yeah
but UK's UK is UK is pretty much like that as well as good days you like some people have guns
but you know it's not really an issue it's not it's not like America where they where pretty much
everyone can have a gun or whatever but in fact there was a there was a gunshot earlier on but um
that's been I know well we don't but if anyone wants to know you do get me every now and again
sad not have walking around with a gun but in the handguns here are quite hard to get to but um
what they just send the the thing to squad out who go you know like a well isn't that it's
fly out to be the person is and they're with in the cafe hours and they just deal with it so um
it's just a pricking um what I call those like fat guns you um um are not propagands
I just those those pay things that people can buy um can we what they're called now it's going
off the top of the head this is normally someone that's mucking around you know this isn't doesn't
have a real gun so um yeah that's probably yeah we get murders but the stuff in that makes big news
here actually a lot of people have committed this lately beginning off because of that a lot
of system being so um tainted towards the defense they get a good lawyer and two they don't need
a lot of money for the defense case and they can um does they come up with this pay for it um
basically if the prosecution spends a lot of money on the court case then the defense can
can get that much money as well so what happens with the who are the best defense laws in the
country and they seem to be the only ones making good money at the moment and they'll get them off
on a teak you know teak uh teak carefully or something like that but a place still a very bad job
and um um like the evidence and um that the within a quite a few cases here at the tune lately
people that speak ten fifteen years of jail and they're getting up the term the person's
has got a good lawyer and um they've got them off on a DNA thing or something else
don't you know what i mean it seems to be like if there's probably one we have to get
I think we get for 34 meters a year that's going up right please i'm next over the whole country
what's New York like did they get about that in the night don't they so i didn't hear that
saying somewhere like New York out um what's angiolous it's about have 50 or 60 in the night
oh you're talking about yeah uh gun gun gun crimes are we talking about
I'm still a little bit missing stuff we don't get the gun shooting some stuff like that here
just that just doesn't happen yeah um really get stuff like that here as well
it makes me last though the real thing going on about uh if someone shoots someone they go
oh we can't get a gun to the female self i mean it's just stupid i just don't get the
whole logic it's all coming from the NSA who just go um well basically just it's all
propaganda for them for people to buy more weapons so they can get more richer and more people
die it's like let's don't get the whole thing i despite it quite unbelievable sometimes
when they're talking about putting guns on skulls now with teachers having been out there's the most
i can't believe that and um they see 5150 light up for a second maybe not and we've got a bit
quiet who's here actually who's saying a verbal right i'm still here
on the air so that's me so if people still i just jump back in this because i i'm hearing
things i reckon you can see all the things like you
i reckon you can see all the different in the countries in the world it's right
i really do um what we don't need any violence in order to do with the elections pretty much
if we want a government out if the only last three years so um they will be voted out pretty
quite quickly we have a multi-party system um someone to work in there has um and um you know
it's just mainly we have a wide range of people of parliament as well um and um it's not really a
lot of um things like the members of parliament actually do that the government does a bit of
public doesn't find out about so um but if something happens um normally the public knows
straight away so they can't really do a lot as far as scandals i've been said um like um we
have one thing we don't do here is go into private private lives of the um in the members of parliament
like we don't care if someone's having a fear or someone's gay or someone whatever
one we've actually got eight nine members of parliament they're actually i think i
if i can legally gay and got gay partners but it's not a big thing for us we don't really
care as long as they do their job that's not a big thing the election doesn't come into it here at
at all and basically religion does not mention um at all um so that's not a big thing and one
thing that people they um people can't do like advertising and try and buy a political party
and donate funds they can't donate more than 50,000 dollars to a political party without
people knowing about it and that's what um dot com got on travel where actually or not
dot he got an imperial travel but um he donated 50,000 dollars to and he became a minister and
independent minister and uh for it was only one imperial net party and he was helping popping up
the government um does they have a three four six majority and they found out that dot com donated
50,000 dollars towards campaign light about it and um and um that that's a big scheme then when
he got he lost his job over it so i mean there's nothing really a lot the politicians can actually
do here and get you get away with stuff like they can in the US but i can't be poor and i can't be
you know only if someone's you know if they've been paid by someone to do say some things
people dig into it and they figure out what's going on quite quickly so what would happen if a
member of parliament was caught um smoking crack cocaine sort of like rob four per canter.
That's a straight line. That'd probably be forced to disresign by their own
own menders um that's um if they're quite a few and uh maybe it's resigning from parliament all
the time here but normally the party just cuts them out if they embarrass a party really badly
um and like pub that points out he's making crack because we haven't had that um
other um i'm pretty surprised me though someone is actually on cocaine or something in parliament
um if that didn't happen and the um and it didn't make the news um the party would be so embarrassed
about just asking them to resign and also to that member would know that they'd have no chance
of getting into parliament so they'd probably just quit anyway a lot of them hang on for the
remainder of the term uh we've got a couple of people who have left their parties and this
independence now but they are never get back in so they've got like a year left before
the next election and they can't do much so they just stay up everyone's way so that's not
big a thing really. There's public you know if you're a dependent MP you don't really get in the
parliament in this country so you really have to be you only have to get five percent of like
as a party against parliament so and the parliament the party can can select um half the members
so um their other half gets leaked by the public so um um um um you know it just on one off
one against one type thing a mirror if it does um it's very open by from one day i think it's a
really good system actually i mean the British i think the British should change the field uh
you the London should change the UK should um change the uh local system like the first pass
to post thing doesn't work i think it's a mirror if it's problem too
the first pass to post is uh one person running it's another person two parties and
in parliament and and pretty much that it's running everything and they just do the same thing
you know it doesn't be a hooking so next what sort of happens i think that um if you have a
multi-party system those two parties we don't don't have to do what they used to do
they have to um they have to give them to the the party that's supporting them so we'll give them
some of their you know views and to the party that's supporting them so they can't like sell all
their assets or you know do something they don't want to do so um that kicks them on us i think
yeah i think the case got a sort of um multi-party system going in the first pass to post at the
moment where the government's actually Cameron's actually been popped up by the greens so that
they managed to get like 20% of the vote or something but they only got like
i can hammer in there they've got a huge parliament okay
i don't know if there's a joint government at the moment the conservative party and the
liberal democrats it's just the economy they happen up there yeah i yeah it could be i mean
i didn't blur it that much politics but but yeah probably but pretty much
so if you hit a multi-party system though they would have got a lot more seats in parliament
probably would have been the part um the government under a multi-party system um get the
party to put a popping up the government and that's the thing they would have had to work with
they could have um they could have just worked with someone else they would have had a lot like a
say so um and they wouldn't have been lost in uh you know in uh in the coalition because they
would have had a lot more say in uh and what's what's going on and they're probably another
30 you know 100 MPs so they sell that multi-party system sort of works they would have had
and that's election coming up yeah it's not multi-party like they've got 20 but they
they had got something like 20% of the vote in the last election or something like 15 or
16% so if you if 15 or 16% of 500 MPs is a lot of MPs but if you're trying to just one
seats uh one on one but even if you get that large of percentage of the vote you don't get
those seats because uh you're putting nine times out ten of those against the bigger party
and that's what happens but we only have 120 MPs so um you know it's very it's not I reckon the more
the more members you have the more problems you have although although this is going to be an
interesting year for Scotland because uh I think later on this year they're going to vote for
independence if they want to our independence or not so um if that happens then well the UK will
well it comes from well I guess because there'll be the little kindering country and stuff
but that should that should be interesting yeah but they don't want them to leave because um
they are they have all the oil I guess though this would um it's a bit more than like well yeah
I think that's to do it partly but obviously deals can still get done between countries and all
that anyway and I shouldn't say but but yeah but it's well yeah that's to it it's something sound I
think I actually think they should leave the deal I think it's probably what they um
I mean uh England have treated Scotland really badly over the last 300 years
it's almost like they just just I mean pretty much just used them for their own nates really
pretty much done the same that's mainly um like um I know you know so I mean I just don't
Scotland should just leave it just teach them a least or nothing yeah well some some want to
leave because they um don't like how uh Westminster isn't in control of Scotland basically
others want to obviously other people want to stay part of the UK because just you know
well because we've been British and things like that but obviously it depends on person what
and what people think but I think um but I think in general it wouldn't it probably wouldn't really
affect England that much because um because like I said you can still have your um trade deals
and things like that and um and obviously you know it's about money and stuff at the end of the
day as well so I might actually think um the commonwealth so a lot of countries are going to leave
that um commonwealth eventually they're talking about it here at the moment but we're
probably too new to why we don't wait when Australia goes we go the day the Australia nates
does that live in the commonwealth the next day we go up to the side or if we we're in the
exit Australia will do it the next day because we tend to follow each other and start um what we
do so um um yeah and we have both countries are talking about the moment I wouldn't be
supposed to see they happen in the next 10 years or so it's about 45 to 60 like 60% for the um
world family and 40% against um what either they are dependent on each other yeah yeah they're
commonwealth like if the queen goes to calendar I've achieved that it means something I think it was
I don't mean I think probably the stuff that much to be honest but but yeah
I don't know argument with a Canadian member one day he didn't know idea um he was going on a bit
how the the the the queen wasn't there the the queen of you know Canadian's queen um because she's
actually the queen of um but we we have she's at the top um official typically actually has nothing
really to do with us um in normal terms she can actually sack the prime minister I think if um
I think there's something in the in the history that says it's technically she can actually do that
but um I don't think um that would ever happen that either happened we would leave the um commonwealth
I did have a funny argument with a Canadian one day who didn't realize that Canadian was part of
the commonwealth yeah but it's not only more that's still what America used to be part of
England used to being full or America as well so well left in the last 20 years I was
pretty sure that they they still are let's don't think they pay the raw family much attention
they're just here and they know me tell high school is um they must court like um and I think
it's been changed recently we've got our own um justices of the peace now and stuff we had the um
the highest court in our country isn't they must court like we've got um we've got the
sides of the system the america heads we've had the five of such judges but here we can never
what's a court over there at the top judges are over there they have some of the system now
we've got more americanized like like but with some a lot of stuff uh even our political systems
changing from the British way of doing things to how the americans while doing things
okay sure but um really a really england is is kind of americanized and um on the news I mean
they're always on the news is great sample always saying like what bammers done this or bammers
done that for example wherever the president is at the time but as far as I know in the america
on the other hand they hardly ever get to hear about the british government and british
and what what's happening in Britain you know but that's a difference isn't it we don't really
paid the UK much attention we don't we said they used to be one of the biggest trade partners
up until the 1960s um the european countries didn't like easy on trading with them so I'm pleased
to see how the hates hates the dairy products um and and what their own countries were suffering so
they pretty much kept us out I really stuffed us up so um just with the china and aged and
and we're making more money of their dairy products than we ever have but we've slowly been
grown you know moving away from uh I don't even think a lot of people in the city the UK um UK is
relevant today really a lot of people still love the more family but we're not really into it they
have no say about politics at all that the same for us so I mean I really um it's just one of those
funny things to do with history now you know I don't think it's problem that we'd have this if we
weren't independent we'd have to have a president and and and probably you know they'd probably have
a one-off election so anyone could probably stand with some get some fricking and yet they've
been president um president of the country it's been their name only but still and if Scotland
are independent then many of them have their own currency as well and and then it's like what
they're doing they're going to join the euro or they're going to you know we don't have that issue
we have our own currency so it's not a problem my country's done quite a lot at the moment we've
come out of the recession really well Australia's actually gone down a little bit because um they're
quite funny because our two countries are very very different on how we do stuff like for
naturally um and they've got stakes that sort of matters a lot they're financed is that it gets quite
confusing in Australia um like we want broadband you know high-speed broadband with their country
I would just pay a eight billion dollar contract or someone to go on a high-speed broadband
country they just had a pick of up and it's that in Australia every single state's got a
greed and you have it in Melbourne when you have it in a fricking Sydney it's all over the place
the political system um but they've been relying a lot on mining they were making tons and tons
of money off coal and one thing about their deserts in Australia they've got heaps and heaps of
they can want you know the lines all over Australia now it was applying a lot of people a lot
some people over over here we're over to Australia get jobs at one point but that's just the
collapse um the the coal prices gold prices and all the mining prices for flats Australia's
shit I don't know real they they've lost I think they had a 40 billion dollar deficit or something
last year or something like that and um well I'm sorry I'm just about to set this up so um
because we're we're just we're likely a dairy we're just sporting more of what dairy
we're catching are we looking at a trade deal with the U.S. at the moment so um I like I like that's
interesting too um the main issue with the trade deal with the U.S. that the U.S. want to bring
in there the pharmacy company someone to bring the um prices up yeah does they want to patrol um
the pharmacy products that go into our pharmacy and that's how we'd be paying sky high prices for
um for like um a medication and stuff like that it's one thing it's stopping it I think
yeah yeah globalization stupid I don't agree with that at all come I actually don't agree with
the trade I actually think the country should um then to be self self efficient and actually um
I think that they're a country uh one of the best countries in the world are ones that
export make their own products and then export it don't go and they don't rely on another country
the bring their products in and I um and I think if you get free trade one country normally
outweighs the others whether I free trade deal with China at the moment we've just got so many
crappy Chinese products coming into the country at all you know it's one way it's not um you know
there's not many easy on companies they're based in sales of China um they're actually doing well
so um it's very one way um and it takes away a lot of jobs as well like companies would move
some way up and say as well uh people they get things of China when people or company may move
off to India to get people there and all that kind of stuff it happens there as well
so we're we're losing a lot of jobs at the moment with factories that are phasing down
and moving to um moving to a Chinese factory that based on China and um if they're just um
they're doing they're not exploiting the goods completely on because it's cheaper than
making them so um and and we that's one thing that's been annoying like like just how this right-wing
government doesn't really pay much attention to the worker um yeah I don't know that's one of those
things he's wanting to go uh yeah the uh things to be on that watch slide at the moment
too much low interest rates here too at the moment I think it's like 3.5 percent or something um
housing um you're one of these people who likes to buy their own house um but um the governance
just made a lot harder to buy their own house because um um they've put the mortgage rate up
uh the mortgage deposit rate up to about 20 percent um and it used to be about five
so a lot of people are upset about that too because only people in the houses are trying to
try to try people for um these Chinese million years coming in and buying up all the properties
yeah most people here that you know you can't buy your own house and maybe even the flat would be
too expensive so well yeah flat even the flat is a lot so a lot of young people younger people
will spend or live at home because the the house prices it or will flex even it's crazy the amount
of money they want and you know even with two people in a uh couple you know you might not be able
to just get a house or pay enough off or you know the mortgage is massive I swear I mean
yeah well that's the same here in Auckland the house prices are
literally uh blokes they've got they've got like 300 percent or something in the last three
four years they've done the um but something that would be where I am now like a three-plus house
with you with what hundred and eight hundred nine thousand running at this house in Auckland
would be worth four hundred five hundred thousand just to feed it I come a lot of people
actually live outside Auckland and drive to Auckland to go to work yeah but what's kind of
interesting is if you go to some wealth like well yeah I got second cousins in Finland their
parents I think their house is is actually quite a lot cheaper than like a house would be here
but they also get well you're a lot nicer place but then they're sort of near a small village
or small wish town so it's not really built up area such but they live in quite a nice place
and they've got like the forest then they've got there some uh it wasn't nice wooden house
they've got room to plant their own vegetables they've got their sown up because it's Finland
just fit there the sown to come to Finland they've got a little wood wood bit and then they've got
a lake down the bottom there they share with the neighbours and the nylons and you know they get a nice
place but I think for quite a lot less than a house would would sell here even though but what
they're actually getting is really what they're getting is a lot nicer in many ways than what you
would get here but for less money but that's the difference isn't it yeah I didn't
about assuming it's like this now as well but you know it's the difference between places and um
question um the question truth is quite so I think that people's mind seats over here we're
really badly like um the whole idea of buying a house does mean out the window people aren't
buying anymore they don't want to we've gone off it um um it's like every house and
Christchurch and it was a city of 4,500,000 was damaged pretty much they've had they've had to
blot they've actually had um they've thought we speak something like 40 billion or something
over in Christchurch over to its death plate and um people just leave leaving a city in
drives so it's just booming at the moment because they're building all these new houses but they're
just demolishing everything but in fact they've demolished every single building and just build it
out from scratch yeah here the issue is population to some extent and like a lot of people are
coming to UK or England in particular I assume also in Wales or Scotland or Ireland but
so there's the whole thing about borders to some extent as well like who's going to be
allowed in the countries after but that's another issue that's another topic but they they
don't know they talk about I was just thinking with houses they do they do try and build new houses
here and there but um then the whole price issue and there's a lot of people who who are who can't
really get their own house or their own flat or whatever because of the whole price issue
yeah still you can don't want to check the house to reach here like um
yeah you can't you can't you can't really buy it unless you got you know you've got quite a
lot of money and that's not that much it wouldn't be a lot of difference if we bought this house
uh we've got enough money for the closet at the moment but if we bought this house we'd still be
paying about the same for the mortgage that the rent is so there's not much point um really for us
we're quite happy we don't we've been here three years now we don't we we've never seen
a landlord no it's we're not betraying the place so um it's like um something happens like
where a tree fell down just just about hit out the edge and the storm um and you know they're
able to just come around and pay for it to get removed that would have cost us thousands um we're
quite happy uh we're still going off the whole idea of buying like it's just not a massive thing
for us anymore I mean lots of people used to make make money here of buying a selling house this
is the next where all the money comes from um yeah for me patient it's not big thing for me but my
father father was they've just paid off the house last this year he's been working at the same
job for 40 years and stuff but um they have a very different deal on things and they have a very
different deal but if you get married you spoil your house well my sister has but I'd say here
husband's parents just gave them 50 grand for the deposit because they're quite wealthy so we
can't do that yeah it's just one of those things unless you've got wealthy parents here you're
pretty much start really yeah yeah that's what I was that's what I'm basically saying here as well
the same same thing unless you've got wealthy parents or you're you've somehow got yourself a really
good well-paid job or with somebody else you know relationship or you're pretty much you
pretty much can't really do a mortgage or it all it wouldn't really make sense because you're
you know you don't have enough money you're not earning enough my wife would get probably get
her credit would be fine I don't know I haven't earned enough money so I'm on the date just
zero but here create right she could probably afford to get a house on her own like she should pass
with a criteria it's just coming up with a Whitney what 50 grand 60 grand for a deposit now I can't
just buy a cheap like rental you know rental house like there's not much point and she knows like
every two or three years two with a job she can move to another store or whatever so we can't
we have 20 patients that's not worth it my bad things like um the university do you have to
do you have a tuition fees there well I did a university degree you know it's 33 and I
discussed student loan and that paid for it for four years and I went part-time during this
this before I met my wife actually and um and and I really enjoyed it because I was in the
university town but the government pays about 30 40 percent of it that give us a loan for people
the loan debt the student loan debt is a huge problem here but um the same I think that
you don't pay back a set of amount each week anyway so um thing on what you're earning so uh
there's no big deal it doesn't even worry me it does that's probably one reason I won't be
the banks won't like me if I bought a house because I have a student loan um yes you know it
doesn't worry me at all it's not a big thing um I don't have anyone get a loan here I think I've
stopped people over 3D getting it recently so I think I would struggle now um if you were 18 or
19 or 20 um if you're over 21 here you can just go straight into the university you don't need to
have good qualifications um so a lot of people fail that's not the case now you know different
here um that's quite a spencer looking at five grand six grand a year um for if they're
telling you of course it can be a lot more overseas students pay a lot more they pay 15,000
a year to come to university here but um whatever probably still cheaper in the states though um
the university's making a ton of money off foreign students
they're paying a lot more yeah same yeah same yeah same yeah same yeah in fact really they
well really they they sort of up the attrition fees or set to university you can do 9,000 pounds
um so uh hyper he is probably about a thousand packs to do if you're thinking of Greece 21
papers it's it's probably uh you know looking at and then you've got to pay for a accommodation
and then yeah for the top yeah I think it's yeah for some of the top universities
anywhere they can do like nine thousand pounds for course or whatever it was but
the difference isn't if you go to Scotland on the other hand they actually basically
anyone can do a degree they kind of slamming one do a degree yeah we're doing an 80 year old
but we've to university have gone and sell for um a teaching degree um and you know three years
and you've got a teaching you know you've got a degree in teaching and the grades here are three
years but master's a four and he just got himself a teaching job so I mean it does work I mean
I think it's quite useful um just gives people something to do with my four to I guess um
I felt I didn't find that they they had um I found I was getting seized from my small papers
I was passing them okay um yeah it's quite hard not knowing how it all works when you're going
straight in there and you know you're not used to that sort of stuff um you can get you know
get by if you do go university here you just gotta be but it depends on your personality too
I think a lot of students just feel a drink just don't worry about it too much they put me there
pass a lot yeah um and then we'll and then health care is um yeah NHS England and Scotland
have some things we'll have three here is free here but um you're you're going or if I got injured
today all right I've got my legal either I get free health care I go straight into the hospital
I've made it for I can be a civil store away and I'd be in a hospital for probably a
you know a couple months and you don't need to pay a thing um but um if I had something
chronic or wrong with me then if I needed an operation I felt a waiting list so um you could
be looking at a year's age white it could be the operation no yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah that
will be appropriate there will be a waiting list for the NHS as well if for certain things but
then also that if you've got money there's the option of private health care as well so
you don't want to pay me people can get private health private health insurance has got quite
big here actually because it's not that expensive it's about 20 bucks a month really that's a
monthly release so um yeah people want to pay that they can just go into that and get
probably get health care that way to see that what they go to well they're they're gonna there
was on the news recently actually they're going to um because apparently some people come to England
to kind of take advantage of the NHS and they lose millions of pounds on that so they were going
to charge some a lot of the foreign people uh who come over for health care which is fully fair enough
see we don't have a problem yeah we it's the rice quite a lot so it's so uh that's very
together this right so not like um um it's about 20 percent of the budget did you
see the budget we don't have a defense force and you can we we have a big defense
budget when it we that's been anything on the fence really um and so um yeah that's
put all in the health care and stuff and so um it's the the hospitals are run really badly
because they haven't run stood and they tend to be on on the bed balance there's no I don't
I've been in the year for a corporate corporate player player problem um about six months ago
yeah every single person he was American like all the doctors and nurses were just a
American it was that thing in an American in an American TV show it was quite funny like uh
all these American execs in the um using on the hospital yeah the hospitals are quite good here
I think I mean that I think normally goes hospital at the moment but um as far as I know in general
they're they're quite good and the country as a whole is known to be quite good for health care
with doctors and so on but surgeons etc um medicals and costs and so D&HS are always trying to
kind of find ways to all they've you know there's always talk about I can save money because there's
a lot of a lot of money goes on that from the taxpayer I look I did a stay away from doctors and
stuff that I can help out like see in them they don't really sort problems out they tend to um
just see you for 10 minutes there be 50 minutes you still have to pay to see a pro uh
doctor and that's quite as much of um you know 50 bits of if you want to go to the doctor
you normally want to see your patina for 10 minutes and and they can't do much in 10
of a 10 minutes like um miss a lot of things um it's probably all they do is just give you some
medication like the pain that I want for it can I be profiled or something like that and it's
pretty much what they do so I sort of um I sort of get a bit um I've set for the new
the health system I think the doctors just don't really don't have the time to um look into a
patient like I see all these do these TV shows in a new east like um right graze and then you
not think standing like about four or five days like working out well what's wrong with the
patient let's don't do that yeah it's just like um yeah but um and next probably a one issue with
the health system right here yeah well yeah I mean doctors young well yeah so you've only seen
for 10 15 minutes they didn't do that much I agree with that but depends on what you're there for as
well yeah exactly how you've just got the phone it's half the time it's what they say so it's not
like um they're run teacin stuff and pick some sometimes I find too they they're the hospital
see the tina runs run of blood teacin if there's nothing on the blood teacin you're blood
pre-shed they've seen your home and they miss a lot um people have died from you know um like
you've got proper virus and it hasn't picked up on the blood teacin stuff here and um stuff like
that because this is the stupid system and why it's set up um men are dry this kills quite a few
people here because the hospital's me at my miss it miss it it has flu-like symptoms
men are dry this but it kills you in a couple days two or three days it can be um like you can
um it can be um all the Asian students bring it over um and it can be killed quite easily
with any bornics um yeah the doctor's miss it they think it's flu give you something
the wrong medication send you off your way and the person's dead until three days it's probably
the worst one I think you've got at least one this now because I've been looking at the IC
channel just now I don't know how many we've got now apparently earlier we had apparently earlier
when I was chatting with uh free 30 apparently you get punished with the can this was we had like
26 listening on the stream which apparently was more than at the end of the actual new years
playing the popper one you know I'll put my team in a Google pass it could be someone
on my uh it's one of about three hundred people that followed me a Google pass or a while I
it's probably had to keep trip of my time I changed my um my page locked and everything
every team minutes I don't wonder how many are actually listening to us right now but uh well
and also I wonder how he was actually left if anyone from the people on this
I think I'd like you know they they would I'll get to know yeah don't surprise me if there's
quite a few people in here that I would just keep it up for yes a little bit longer I think I
did that we stood I I um I just really tied I did the first seven hours I mean I'm from Midnight
my time to about eight in the morning and um I got really hyped about three o'clock in the
sky so yeah um I didn't I I was that the road beginning for a little bit then I um got some
sleep not much then I was around sort of the evening until when all that until about 4 a.m. and
then I went to sleep again about five I think and I came back on at what I thought would be the
like end of this but we kind of just like carried on and on and yes well I think if you're
broadcasting them we'll get about 20 people into a room and that I just ran more on like this
you know I'll be like this all the way through I told you to report some of this um not as a
near but um um like a couple months ago when they started off um yeah they they they they
and there's sort of some of the people in here actually are from it right so it's tough for either
time for more green now do the broadcasting member have quite big number see that
it's just out of though yeah and I'm done with podcasting since the last one to be honest
because I've been doing some other stuff like public speaking here and there and things like that
and um so you see because when you haven't done it for a year I was thinking at the end of
the time I was thinking oh yeah the new year's podcast coming out that's gonna be fun and you
know and then you do it and you kind of remember oh yeah yeah podcasting is quite fun
because when you haven't done it for for eight for a year or so you you kind of you maybe
start to forget how fun it really is um I actually would want to do the podcast or someone
the time zone um stats me up a bit like um um it's just hard getting people in from the right
time zone most of the people I talk to are a member of a near case so it's really hard getting
it 12 hour time difference and it's just you know soaring out time when you're 30 at the
moment isn't it what time is it okay and they like to say these comes in from either country
and it can be 19 you know you can even talk about feeling the cool and watch this watch um yeah
I'm like I like one more I must miss a minute I prefer to chat and I do um to like my type
thing skills aren't there at all I think sound tests are like you're willing to have a space
with the recording we think I can do this it's going to like have it like play for the whole year
like they get well originally we're going to go two hour episodes and then I don't know about
this this extra stuff but um we'll see I guess and apparently there's no cure such to release it
so it might take quite a while to release the whole thing out yeah I might start thinking okay
I don't really hang out now I see more actually um I might hit start hanging out in the
um I'll pass a minute my I see room um they seem to be at most the people when he and he
can hang out near any way so yeah it's alright and um I tend to just sort of stick around in
um miles from the Medea channel to obviously and uh and some who's my own one of my own
so you thought I needed to do some agio use that I if it makes so I think it's like up to about
three on destroy watch my next one yeah I mean the it was it was actually number two uh last
year for a lot of last year on destroy watch but it kind of went down a little bit which is
kind of a shame but they could it's sort of they this just on page views and stuff but yeah it was
number two for a bit actually and then it went back to the zero if you've got a page view program
so it's clicking on the page all the time well it's it's it's so good it's nice little
distro but it's the whole if I've had a mandriva before mandrake or maybe use the event
so um a mandriva is a bit like that to me like I can never get past I'm not very good with the
text face of stores um be a graphical store I'm not going to store something but it's sort of
where I come from from much of you yeah mandriva um well how do all these like public company
issues as last few years as a sector and so um in 2010 a group of former developers basically
this lost their job working for mandriva for mandriva company called EdgeIT and so they thought
like we're going to um fork and other computer contributors as well and so they decided they're
going to they were going to fork mandriva because they were worried about what would happen to
as a distro and so they decided to start the um material projects and it was announced
they're like a meeting in Paris and then it they'd like to announce it the next day that they
were going to fork mandriva and stuff like that and then um it takes you know it takes a
well to set up a build infrastructure and all that as well because before you can make this
to the proper focus is not based on mandriva day well okay the first version is quite similar
to what used to the old mandriva 2010 point pretty ten series but it's really booed since then
it's really moving in the same direction I mean it's got the same build structure and all the
rest of it it's not it's not using the repose for some other from some other distribution like
mintes for example you build a good talk earlier with popier about mint and a bun two and
mint and how they and how to use the um take the Ubuntu repose and things like that um you know
this is the proper fork in a sense they talk the packages and they set up doing build infrastructure
and all the rest of it and set up their own non-profit organization and all the rest of it
and got people interested in a lot of the full man mandriva community then followed because
they they were still used mandriva because they were worried about what would happen to mandriva
and to be honest that I I used other distros I was a bunny user for years and stuff like that so
I kind of moved on to mandriva for a bit and then on to this but that's but um yes
it's a good distro but it's I personally I think personally I think it's lost a bit of the interest
in that they're used to kind of seem to have before in the last maybe last year or so and that's
poly poly white's gone down a little bit on distro watch to be honest but distro watch I know
it's a distro watch too it's all the pins if someone has a release I have a DB in this day you have
a DB in the stride it's really like every five minutes I do quite well on distro watch
so although saying that if you mean if distro watch is done if there's a release then sure
because mandriva is on a nine months release cycle so the last release was in May and we've
actually got a idea of fall coming out on the 1st of February so it'll be interesting to see
what happens there but see what kind of what happens with the comments online and all the rest of it
but um I've got I've got I've paused them to go to embassals again there's a big open source event
in that in the Belgium and it's amazing all these projects getting together and stuff
you too I must tell one thing about me people say I'm not as you know everyone but I
also don't know why they get to know anyway why can we don't hit those big events here
we've not well you're not in it's come fair you but that's Australia or I think they had the New Zealand
I'm not paying to grade the guy over to Australia for a reference conference,
it's a massive cost, like $500 each way, but a ton like to pay for a competition would cost it.
I mean if I wasn't at UK I'd be jumping around and you'd be waiting for all those conferences.
Well you can stream online for some of the positives, I mean there's videos up,
and there's old camp in the UK which I've been to twice now as well,
that's a big, just one who like tattooing about on HPR times.
But I think it actually, I think probably, and then you get European events that falls down,
and there's like two in Germany, and there's a Swedish event, and there's, what else is there?
And stuff like that, but I think most of the events are probably actually in America for this, because...
I'm a brown organisers club, but he comes in here quite a lot, quite often.
He organised a couple of favourites, feasts and stuff like that.
I think it's not stopped going, John, but I think we'd accept the conversation anyway.
Well, whatever, you know, carrying on a bit.
Whatever.
It's all good.
These events, yeah, it's just...
You know, when I decided, when I was going to assist my GFA,
so they announced a fork and all that.
In 2010, I was kind of looking for a project to contribute to anyway, and get a bit more involved,
with a bit more official, like everyone say.
And so I thought, like, what can I do?
I'm like, I don't know, I'm not using programming, so what can I do?
I'm not really doing, I'm not really in the graphics design.
So what can I do?
So I kept a nicey channel on top of my GFA, and all that kind of thing.
I followed it properly, and then I joined the marketing team, and I did some stuff to do with that,
since after that and so on.
And so...
But when I went to FOSDEM,
and, you know, some of these people, you know, you know, people, now I see, or whatever, and you think,
oh, yeah, that person was...
well, you think, you know, them, through I see, or whatever.
And when you can go to an event and meet some of these people in person,
it just really changes a bit as well.
And you kind of realise who is really paying the text, or the voice I suppose, in case of podcasting.
What's that?
That wasn't here one day, and he was talking about how he went to this event.
He's not very, he's quite an interviewer, and he's not very good with people.
He doesn't like large crowds and stuff.
He was quite interested in going to this event meeting that we're having.
He goes, I've been invited, and I'm speaking like, how...
A couple of people there, he goes, I'm quite keen, so they want me to speak, or something.
He goes along, and it's like four people in the pub talking about events,
and I was really disappointed.
I think he does in London, I think he just normally doesn't go.
Well, what's that?
Did Bunch release part of it, or the...
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
One of them.
When I'm around, I can't remember how long ago it was,
I was something to do with something for the Bunch, or I think, in London.
There's like four people in the pub, and he's like,
but there's a point in it, in case,
because I was speaking like a huge hall with pictures of people,
yeah, I think it's quite hard to organise those events, isn't it?
A lot of the time.
Yeah, so again,
it's quite hard sometimes to organise that sort of stuff.
See, that's what I'm doing there.
I'm going to like, organising something, or marketing something,
or I'm not really programming.
It's programming, but that sort of person,
so that's probably one different sort of me.
I'm beginning to videoeasing a bit lately, just personally,
I've discovered quite a bit of how to do stuff.
So I like to learn stuff like that.
The next week I come from,
when it's based on software and hardware and that type of stuff.
Yeah, I like people like talking to people,
and I think, you know, I'd love to be able to go to those sort of events.
Yeah, do you might have a Linux user group over there?
Well, yeah, it'll probably be some in New Zealand as well, so.
But, yeah, I mean, with these lugs as well,
it can depend, it can just be a pub beating,
and with a few people, it could be maybe some speeches there,
as well depending on your lug and what happens.
But, yeah, mine's a little bit...
I joined...
It's like I actually went to the BEMP first,
this was then, right?
It's 2012, so I hadn't gone to lug first.
Some people go to lug first,
but I went...
I thought I did the other way around.
Not that it matters, really.
But, yeah, it can be a bit disappointing, I would say,
as well, if you go to one of these so-called
Linux meetings of some sort,
and there's hardly any money left.
But, in this lug, it can be like that as well.
It really does depend on them, like, the meeting,
and how many people are turning up,
and stuff.
It could be eight people, it could be ten,
at most, it could be...
It's been a man a long time,
but I think people move on,
and people lose interest over the years,
and stuff as well.
And then there's...
I find with Linux,
people get really, really involved,
in Linux for about two years,
and I've been a bit late lately,
and then, no, just once I only move away
into the text stuff,
there's no one to have other things.
Yeah, it happens that there's, like,
another group as well,
that, in the city of Dermy,
where they might be, like,
suss-up wireless for cheap wireless organizations,
or whatever they do,
and they had, like, a Christmas thing,
and we were invited along our heart group,
and I went along to that,
and it's like 30,
40 people, or whatever,
all for the evening, I'm thinking,
oh, no, no, one day we don't get many,
we don't get many, that many people
going to the lug,
because it seems quite a lot of them are just going to the southern thing,
or then both with that,
so they come to lug,
even though some of those people
were originally from the lug,
but that's how it can go as well, I suppose.
Like, as long as you guys,
if I like mumble,
just get a small group in here,
even three or four people,
and have a really good conversation.
So, I mean, there's nothing wrong with that.
Okay, three or four people in the group,
and the pub talking about loans.
I mean, I'd love to do that.
They'd be fun for me.
I talk about loans
to anyone in real life,
so it's over though one of those.
Yeah, no, I didn't really either,
because you can go off,
and as people say,
you can talk to like-minded people.
Yeah, and that's one thing
I really enjoy about this project.
You can talk to people who ride the world for free,
and talk about subject that you're quite passionate about,
and I think it's one of the big things for me.
It's a sub,
because normally it's really hard for me.
And I don't, I do get people involved in open sources,
and they're really good online,
really bad offline.
And my personally,
are these quite summer offline.
I'd like to talk to people and stuff as well,
and I just find it likely
I've been quite happy just talking to a mumble,
because I'm actually the people I don't want to talk to.
Oh, yeah, mumble's good as well.
I remember last one, Peter said,
like,
I really like,
no, what did you say?
It's like, it's great having a new year
and having a new year sort of thing,
or if I had to do that,
then why have somebody said less?
My wife was working to about 10-5 at night,
so I couldn't really go anywhere,
and at the only place I'd actually go,
probably be able to hear family,
and they're all new, 60s and stuff,
and really happy for them.
I've just got to the point now, as I've got older,
I'm more than happy.
I've done all the student staffing,
with the needs, drinking and stuff.
I'm more than happy now,
but these are being told that she's quite good.
No, you can have like a non-line new year's nail as well,
which is the whole point of this stuff,
isn't it?
Yeah, it's an idea, I think.
I think I've been doing it for five or six years now, I think, too.
Well, what, five or six years?
What?
I don't know.
I thought it started about three years,
isn't it?
I did last year and this one.
I haven't won five years,
but I think now I'm talking about how long it's been going
for it to be wrong though.
When I did it the first time last year,
I thought great,
but now some food topics.
Food topics have been lacking this year.
Why don't I talk about food topics?
I don't know what someone mentioned there.
I think it's because it kind of got over done last time,
it came up probably about six times
or something all the way through.
Um, Cobra, did you get your mic to extra,
your morning and I see that you can do your mic
with having issues,
probably idling.
I eventually got stuff fixed.
Okay, I feel you sound good.
It sounds like a podcast.
Yeah, right.
I installed Gen2 and built mumble
that didn't work,
so then I installed software and built mumble
and that worked.
It would take a long time
just to install mumble on G2.
No, no, it's like,
are you on even what?
So we're going to use the distro for mumble.
No, it's like, um,
sort of, um, setup for mumble.
This goes into a different community.
You can use it.
It's all the sound settings are all good
and everything.
It's not like, and it's setup to the right version.
So it's pretty easy.
Distroge down, right?
It's only like 600 megabytes.
It's 700.
It's not like,
I mean, it doesn't speak to me anymore.
So, um, um,
it goes to the community,
where it needs to be spectacular things.
Yeah, a lot.
I tend to, I'd rather come in here,
or, um, um, um, yeah.
I mean, if anyone does what,
they'll give help on how to do stuff as well.
So, um, I mean, it's just one point.
I'm not really much of a distro hopper.
There's really only three that I use.
Arch, Gen2 and Slackware.
Um, I really can't follow Neil.
I am.
I was sure of your distro's online.
Oh, I got so frustrated with it,
okay, I got to feel that
the storming your distro refinement, you know,
every day that I just decide I'm discussed at tough organ.
I did, I did the, uh, in 2009,
I went through the whole distro watch.com list basically
and been being selling packaging box as well,
but I went and tried out pretty much
any distro or nearly all the distros as long as it said that they were in
English because why notice a lot of them seem to just be like foreign
distros or maybe a lot of distros out like that and I went down the
lot less than about two days or something and I think how the people have
done similar stuff but yeah that's what I ended up.
I was alive to the French but the distros in it was again can translate the page
to English, of course you're them are like that. I had it come across a distro
section not in English but maybe I'm just sticking to the Buntie base once.
Yeah, sometimes the things that stand out to an distro to me are the
a net system, what a net system it uses whether it's BSD or
whatever system crap and the the package manager
I hate apt, I hate apt with a passion. It's probably the worst package manager
I've ever used.
If you use a jar of apt, apt you said being the worst.
That's kind of less interesting because apparently apt is one of the best
ones. It's the only one I know. No, it works as the best.
Easily. Have you used a jar of old copper?
Will you stay away from it? No, it doesn't sound like one that
I've used. Based on that, they used their own, they
test their repositories before that it's got a graphical installer and everything
it's actually quite nice to look at the stuff. It's got a graphical
package manager but you can use Pacman and all that sort of stuff if you want to
through the terminal.
Actually, when I run Arch, I use Arch like I use Gen2
I build everything from source using the AVS stuff.
Is it one of those people who might talk to me?
Well, I don't need a generic Linux install.
When I install Linux on something, it's only going to be on
that specific hardware. I don't need portable packages because I usually have
different architectures. For example, here I've got
Adam, I've got an i5 and I've got a
Selleron and a couple of ARM units and MIPS.
So, what's going to be beneficial to me to have
a local repository of packages?
I think as all, I think anyone that uses it starts all
what they discover after a couple of months, what they actually like,
whether it's KDE or whether it's a mixed ECU or whatever
and it's far to destroy that's got that they like, that's got that
immunity if they like to learn too, and if they do get into that
I'll think of the building that they're on way,
you know, that's all good, there's nothing wrong with that.
I think that's mainly what's really useful for.
I think if anything needs a bit of conflict in the Linux world,
without people getting quite tight, I've got my system,
you should be doing the same thing. I think everyone's different,
I think a system here, just a great, does a great,
we're not going to talk about your co-groups,
you know, people in their own conflict,
you know, with what to show someone choosing,
it should be completely up to the use of what they use.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I mean,
3.30 earlier, I had a bit of a discussion about that,
how it should be, my, my history is better than your thing is,
well, yeah, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know.
It kind of holds back the whole of Linux back from
getting more popular, because people will get confused
or they'll think it's just the fighting between distrares
or, you know, that kind of stuff as well.
Yeah, that's one of my things, I've got really good feedback with it,
so I've got a really good feedback from the conflict in Linux,
like, oh, you can't do both, you can't do this,
and you can't do this, like, I can't do any more,
like, it's nothing to do with you.
I'm not having to go, what you're using, you know.
I think, yeah, if I want to learn a bit about you,
and that conversation got me interested,
you know, I'd go and have a look, find out some information,
and we all learn about it.
If I want to learn about what progress this does,
and I do that, it's what I like to do.
I just think that people should, you know,
try and take someone, how to use someone,
rather than something, rather than tell them,
that they're, you know, I'm a crappy distro,
because at the time, I've never used it,
this show takes, we know what they're talking about anyway.
But I've never used it, but yeah, I'm not,
say, my dear, it's crap, so I've never used it.
You know, I think that some people just get caught up
in the whole mind-spear than your thing.
I don't understand the warning to install distros
inside a virtual machine, if it's not on the actual hardware,
how do you know what it can do?
Yeah, I must say, like, people, I do understand
people's point of view, and if you're on YouTube reviewing distros,
it's really hard to do it in a story every day,
actually, have a play around with something.
You do get some idea of how distros are going to work,
and which works, and if it's not 100%,
and that's where they are coming from.
But, and say, you know, some people do try
and rip their stuff on a different distro,
and follow the story every day.
But do they just install it?
You just do a five a second lock,
and it's like pointless anyway.
Well, well, for example, if you do a Gen2 install
in a virtual machine, it's going to take you
four, five, six times as long,
unless you have a really good motherboard
that lets you use all the cores on your processor.
Well, yeah, I mean, if you do a different virtual machine,
depending on your hardware, it can be if it's
slower than the built-in install,
and it can be the other way around possibly.
But I think with the virtual machine,
it gives you a taste of distro,
and it gives you an idea of what it's like.
And you said, what's the point during the virtual machine?
Well, I think you're doing it actually,
well, I'm thinking quality assurance here,
because with that idea,
what happens is obviously the distro,
the hardware development versions,
and the final will become the final and all the rest of it,
gets tested out on build hardware,
obviously by certain people, that's important.
But it also gets tested out in virtual box.
And what happens sometimes actually is,
people come along to a QA team,
and they think, they think, right, you know,
I wouldn't get involved with this.
I wouldn't do QA, I wouldn't do some ISO testing,
but I don't have,
I don't know if I want to install on my computer,
or they don't believe in, or they're not really sure.
And so they sometimes they say,
like, what if I download the ISOs and test out
in virtual box, will that be okay?
Can I do quality assurance testing like that?
And in general, the answer to that is, yes, you can,
but my point in trying to make it is,
really, in the case of something like that,
you need to kind of test your distro
and on build hardware importantly,
but also in the virtual machine as well,
because, and in fact, some people,
they will only really try out your distro and the virtual machine.
So if it doesn't really work there,
it doesn't, they might get a bad impression,
but that also brings up something,
that also brings up something else actually.
They, I'm not sure what happened quite,
but that was an idea to have an official image made
for virtual machines of Maria3 and something on made,
but I don't know, it's really happened,
anything, but that's like an appliance or an official image,
and that's good as well to have something like that
for distro than an official image for virtual machines.
So you actually probably tried the G-R in a virtual box,
because I know it's quite hard to install,
so I'd like to know that I can install it.
Wait, what was hard to install at which one?
Well, the G-R, I'm no good with, like,
peaks commands and stuff.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, it's not like that,
all it's got a graphical install there.
I think it's got, never used to, I haven't tried the G-R.
No, I've always had a, I think you've always had,
um, yeah, it's like, you know,
technical install.
So for me, it's nothing with me when the G-R,
it's over, I don't know, it's too, it's quite large.
I'd stay away from anything I have a two-jigger lights normally.
I'd like to light the stripes anyway.
I think you guys have got like a destox,
like all the destox on the G-R.
Now, what is different to install media,
actually, there's a big one called a classical installer,
which is about, uh, to the, about the gigabyte something,
but that's because it also, it gives you sort of everything,
or the, uh, it was all there.
So when you go for install, you can say, like,
I want to have workstation.
I want to have a server.
I want to have, I want to have this in that desktop.
You can then select what you want.
So that's the big one, yes.
But then all the live media is like, uh, um,
quite small.
There's live media.
In fact, there's even a,
in fact, to make things even smaller and so on,
I, so wise, what they did is they, um,
in certain ISOs, they dropped everything except,
think they should make it smaller.
And so there's, there's various, uh, install ISOs.
And she won't really spoil.
You could even do the, um,
you could even go for the dual CD,
which isn't really recommended for new users as such.
But it, it would let you install it,
and you, it would test for your computer 32,
a bit or 64, a bit,
and give you the right one.
And then you can sort whatever else from the repo.
So if you want to go absolutely tiny,
there's even that option that would,
I would recommend one of the, uh,
live medias start,
because then you can get whatever else from the repo.
Is anyway, once it's installed, basically.
Uh, it's definitely, I mean, it's something I'd like to,
I'll be saying a minute,
so it was, was off main drive from that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, no, no, no, no.
Also, these distributes have this graphical control center,
which is quite nice.
And, um, things like that,
so you will use a friendly touch.
But, um, PCLinux OS, I, I, I use that.
I get a good, um, going back to what somebody said, um,
about version machines.
Like, how can you know if you're really running more,
this distro is about if you're doing an
emotional machine?
So I, what I did before actually was,
I was waiting for my year one final to be released.
Back in, um, 2011 or 2010,
well, 2010, 2010, you can say to when you got released.
Um, I, because I'd given PCLinux OS to try here
in their virtual box and I was always looked at and thought like,
or I don't know about how it looks and,
I don't even know if I want the ball.
That's the only thing that I wouldn't be being on.
I wasn't really being fed to PCLinux OS, you know,
I was a guy who, who, who was saying to me,
look, you should be saying it's just,
OS is great because he, he, he,
he was using my dream before and all that.
So I thought, you know what?
I'm going to, um, give PCLinux OS to Fairtry
and I put it on my computer for real in sort of,
I think it was, um, November 2010 to say March,
2011 or something like that.
I gave it a five months,
that was my district, that's what I used
for my computer for five months.
I get a fair try and, well,
yeah, PCLinux OS is, um, is quite a good
distra as well.
Yeah, wait a minute, but, um,
and it was thought from,
I think you're asking me if it's, yeah,
it was thought from, um,
Mandriva back in to, or Mandrake back in,
2003 by a former developer.
So, and then they, they've, um,
a bit like magic, a little bit,
a little bit like my year because then it's gone
all in the same directions,
it's done in infrastructure and packaging
and all the rest of it.
So, yeah, so in that sense,
they were in the same distribution family really,
because, and so you'll find the control center
that I was on about in PCLinux OS as well.
And, um, but when, when I tried that out,
yeah, it was, yeah, it worked well enough,
but I think the only thing with PCLinux OS
is great as it sounds to have a,
or some of the summer as great as it sounds
to have a stable rolling police as in,
a bit like, ah, she's actually a stable rolling police
when the updates are stable enough
and they give you, give you those updates.
Great as that sounds.
I think fine if you're using KDE or something like that,
but I think the thing with PCLinux,
I'm not sure, actually, but I think they're pretty much,
dropped GNOME3, they're not really bothering with anymore.
There is like a GNOME spin, but I think officially,
they don't really support GNOME3 anymore.
I'm not sure, actually, but it's just kind of the impression
I get from the website.
And I see it, and that's the kind of sad thing
as somebody who likes GNOME3,
because, you know, I don't know what I'd want to run that in there,
but yeah, that's a distribution that's worth the look,
actually, as well, if you want to try to ring different.
And surprisingly, actually, with PCLinux OS,
there's a program called the TV program called BPCClick here in the UK,
and it's same that the, um,
million people who have a vague interest in technology
are not particularly interested,
and so we'll get on about Twitter and Facebook
and things like that as well,
and in what sites you can go on,
and some of the stuff going on would take.
But, um, I remember, at one time,
they, um, actually, had an episode where,
they, in part of this,
web-scape at the end, but they're showing new sites,
and mobile apps, and all that kind of stuff.
They actually mentioned PCLinux OS,
and I thought that was really surprising,
because normally, I show like that with only,
if they're going to mention GNOME3,
it's like, oh, there was going to go on about Ubuntu,
and it was just really surprising,
that they mentioned PCLinux OS,
but that happened in one episode.
Yeah, PCLinux, I think, when I'm in the face,
let's just draw a try,
and 2DS came at the same time, you did it.
I think it's been a week to Ubuntu after that,
and I might be around with Ubuntu,
but I found it, I've tried it since,
I just found that software quite outdated,
like, um, they might have done some updates,
I haven't tried it last that day.
Um, yeah, and it's probably washed out of way.
I do think it's quite nice and stable, though,
but yeah, that's made personally,
it's not something I'd use.
Not quite few people recently,
they've switched, though.
Um, it's not my thing.
I'm going to be neutral for a little bit, guys.
Yeah, yeah.
You've got this, I think we've got this and still,
but who is here?
Other, what other than?
Well, I'm still here.
Do you want someone help with your mic, people?
No, I'm okay.
I was just eating,
so I just king up the mic,
so you know, I was still around.
It's true enough.
So I'll just be muted by a bit listening, guys.
I thought we were washing the room.
Which is going off to wake Terry,
in a couple of hours.
I've just kind of been in and out.
It's snowing here and I have been shoveling,
and, uh, you know,
but I've been listening off and on.
Nice to know this guy.
It's, uh, it's dark here,
and has been for about, uh,
yeah, about four hours or so.
I don't know.
Yeah.
It's only eight,
he wasn't at eight p.m.,
but of course it's winter, so yeah.
You must be a,
you know, behind us,
but probably I'll hate it,
so you'll be,
I have no money.
No, no, I said eight,
uh, eight p.m. in the evening.
We'll just be after.
We'll wait 20 in the morning.
Yeah, 13 hours,
time difference.
I'd just be, um,
I'd just feel like I feel a bit stressed.
You're going to wait for a bit.
Yeah, that's fine.
You have been listening to
Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
All binroof projects are proudly sponsored by Luna Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to LunaPages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis,
today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a like,
lead us our license.
