Episode: 1741
Title: HPR1741: HPR Community News for March 2015
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1741/hpr1741.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 08:36:21

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by Ananasthos.com, get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthos.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and I'm joining me tonight on the HBR
Community News for March 2015 is Ahuka.
How are you doing?
I'm doing just great.
Excellent.
Dave is unfortunately unable to be with us this evening and 5150 says it was here last
week so.
As is tradition for those of you who don't know, HBR is a community network of peers
who submit shows to a podcast on any topic that's of interest hackers and we've stretched
that pretty thin over the years.
HBR Community News is a once a month look at what's going on in the community, which really
doesn't deviate more than I look at what shows has been on the last month, which is open
to everybody obviously what's been going on the mailing list and comments on the episodes
all of which are available to each and every one of you.
So anybody can do this show and it's not just us.
We record it.
It's released on the first Monday of the month, which means it comes out on the first
it's recorded the Saturday before the first Monday of the month, which means just throwing
everybody off I think this month.
As is tradition, we welcome you hosts and just so that they can have the names pronounced
properly once before I butcher them.
How about you introduce them?
Well, I'm going to say the first one is TCUC and assume that's an acronym of some kind.
The second one is Finn and the third one is Bee Easy.
I like Bee Easy as a I couldn't see the the the logic in that one until is went through
the text to speech and then I heard it.
I would kindly ask you all hosts regardless of what they're older new to introduce
yourself at the beginning of episodes because I've noticed now that people are yeah
it's it's just don't assume that everybody knows who you are.
It's part of my regular spiel that I introduce myself anyway.
So don't be afraid to introduce yourself indeed.
Okay, 1716 which was released on the second of March April April.
Almost community news for February.
March.
March.
Thank you very much.
No, it was community news for February.
It was the first of March.
Yeah, so release March 2nd.
Yeah, exactly.
About February.
But our first show was TCUC and it was visualizing electricity, which is a request that I have
up there and it was a nice explanation of current bolts and resistance.
And if there are people who want to do more of these type of shows, it would be really appreciated.
Indeed.
Especially with a lot of the hardware hacking stuff that's going on now.
It's pretty cool.
Speaking of hardware, we had 5150s my pickup toolkit.
I guess I pick up is a sort of truck or something.
Yeah, four wheeled vehicles.
Yes.
Very popular in the United States.
And my first topic was this man needs to take out all his tools, clean them and put them back together.
Well, you got to remember 5150s a farmer.
I do.
And yes, I come from that is no excuse.
I've seen plenty of farmer having a nice ordered toolbox.
So yeah, that said, majority don't suffer enough.
But it's quite interesting that I really enjoy that episode.
It's another one of these interest hackers ones, I think.
But some of the stuff he had in there, he was listing it off with the assumption that everybody knew what they, you know, this is a, I don't know, widget of some sort.
And another kind of widgets, but I had no idea what those things were.
I'm sure if Dave has met copious notes about all the things that he didn't, he didn't know being the other side of the Atlantic.
Yeah, I think some of this is another example of two people divided by a common language.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
I love it.
And if you have two, two of us to get something, go through it as well.
I'll be fierce interested in over when you're doing it.
Don't assume.
Yeah, I don't know, taking a Jubilee clip as an example.
For some reason, we call a host Trump, a Jubilee clip in Ireland.
I don't know why I don't know what they're called here, but.
So when you hear him say wrench, just translate it as spanner.
Yeah, wrench, we know here that's, that's, that's okay.
It was just some of the brand names of, you know, sealants and stuff like that.
Right.
The following day, we had JWP with a nice little show on the Linux tree command.
And this one actually was one of the things when I moved from windows to Linux.
This was a very useful command that was in DOS for years, the tree command.
It was very handy to print it off ASCII format and paste it into a document.
And you get a ASCII visualization of a Dres, of a directory structure for people.
Indeed.
So as show topics out there, anybody who's thinking, hey, I don't, I don't know what to do a show about.
So then pick your, your favorite command that you use quite a lot.
And open up the manual page and start reading and start recording.
Yeah, I hope someone will because it sort of looks like Dan Waschko has given up on his Linux in the shell.
No, never.
Now we'll start again on, I hope, I hope you'll reconsider.
Well, I mean, I've been egging him on every time I talk to him and he's just always busy.
Yeah, I know it's a, it's tough, especially with having little ones on everything.
Yeah.
Yeah, he's a family man.
That comes first.
So 15 certificate issues and solutions.
I like this.
I hope this is your show.
And the reason I liked it was because it wasn't just issues.
Quite a, my pet peeve with a lot of the security podcasts is all the sky is falling.
And then this exploit is out and you don't have a natural solution to it.
And I'm quite chuffed with myself that most of the solutions that you mentioned.
I've taken on, I had already taken on board.
One or two of them I actually implemented as well since you were talking.
Well, that's good.
And one of the things I want to emphasize about this is that, you know, I'm not Bruce Schneier.
I am not a world recognized authority on this stuff.
What I'm trying to do is get at basics for the average user.
And so it's really important that there be some solutions there that, you know,
just practical stuff.
If you do this, you'll be safer than if you didn't do it.
Absolutely.
And nothing, I don't know.
I'm quite, as you know, a bit of a fan security both myself or, or like to at least be interested.
It's more as a hobby than anything else.
But it would be, it would be good to get feedback from regular people and the few listening to this.
You know, are you hitting the market with this?
Is it, is it too high?
I personally thought it was a great steps that any one interested in off a listening to HPR could maybe get a grip on.
Anyway, and go from there.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Well, that's what I'm trying to do and I welcome any kind of feedback.
I may or may not agree with you, but as Ken knows, I do listen to every bit of feedback I get.
Yeah, absolutely.
And anything, I think that we've just agreed on.
It's been cordial and I think both of us have learned either side of that.
So that's cool.
The following day we had or the following episode and still happened managed to put in the Monday Tuesday Wednesday thing.
It was cross-compilers part two cross-compiling by Mike Ray on the Raspberry Pi.
And this is just useful stuff in general if you're cross-compiling for any platform.
He's taking the Raspberry, but you don't necessarily need to be using the Raspberry Pi here, but it's super, super useful.
And also excellent show notes as well with HTML and all the rest of it.
As you know, very, very detailed in the show notes.
Very enjoyable to listen to and I thought there's always a balance.
I think you probably know what it will mean, you know, the balance between doing something in audio.
Do you spell out every command or do you, you know, how you describe it and leave the copying pasting of the commands to the listener?
Yeah, that's a tough one, but Mike does a great job.
I'm really glad to see him coming on board and doing these shows.
Absolutely. I'm, you know, by coward to his knowledge and expertise.
The elite has strong in this one.
Then we had Kansas Linux Fest Northwest, a promo Northwest.
Why am I talking about the Norwegian accent, Jesus?
Kansas Linux Fest Northwest.
I don't think there's a Northwest in that.
Well, Southwest, East West, all the rest, all the West, everything, everything over there in Kansas is West to me.
I've seen plenty of West.
Well, there would be Midwest, if anything.
Yeah, I was smack bang in the middle. It's West of me.
Kansas Linux.
Yeah, Kansas Linux Fest.
And we are joined by the man himself, 5150.
Yeah, sorry. I just looked at the clock, realized what time was.
You seem to be cutting in and that was as is traditional with your podcast.
So this was a promotional.
And that's great. In fact, I'm going to try and record one this weekend for Penguin, but 5150.
Why don't you give us a review.
Now that you've had Kansas Linux Fest, tell us about some of the high points and.
No, I'll be wasting a show. How about you give us a short summary of what it was as a teaser to the episode, which you know that will do.
Yeah, it's going to say the same thing.
Plus, you're probably going to hear me on my regular podcast.
Give reviews ad nauseam.
I think it came off very, very well.
You guys hear me okay now.
Yeah, perfect. Yeah, great.
Okay, I just must lift my finger slip off the button before.
Yeah, we had approximately a hundred or maybe a little more attendees each day.
I got the impression just looking at the crowd.
It might not have been the same people every day.
I mean, as you might take from the first episode of a, of a fast that you're getting more local people.
And there's going to be some folks that could afford to come drive up one day and then go home, but not take the time to get a hotel and stay for two days.
Yeah, I think.
I think we had some really great speakers and how, you know, fell HPR contributor Mike Dupont arranged that when he came up with the idea for the fast way told me is he just went through every fast across the United States.
Over the past three years, looked at the speakers and saw which ones lived in the Midwest.
So we had, you know, we had some really great technical talks and some high end stuff.
We had Twitter there.
We, we Oracle.
We, we had rack space, you know, just, just, you know, people from, from big companies and people representing big ideas.
Unfortunately, the organization for recording stuff happened a little, and I should, I should have mentioned earlier, I just assumed, and you know what that did.
And that I mentioned to Mike, maybe a week, week and a half, and he hadn't even thought about recording stuff.
And unfortunately, they bought some cameras, but apparently according to Mike none of the video came out.
So unfortunately, the only talk you're going to hear from Kansas Linux Fest is mine, which I re-recorded once I got home and is coming out Tuesday.
Oh, that's unfortunate.
But I mean, this is the first, the first time we've run this fest.
So I mean, you're going to have TV problems. It was perfect. The first time, you know, there's nothing to strive to the next time on.
I hope I presume there will be a next time, will there?
Oh, yeah, we've had a lot of interest from the three major universities in Kansas. Of course, this time, it was held at the Lawrence Public Library, Lawrence, Kansas, for those who don't know, being the home of Kansas University.
Probably next year, what sounds like it's going to be held on the Kansas University campus. So it won't move towns, but it will move locations.
The year after that, perhaps, Wichita State, and then the year after that, my alma mater, the Kansas State University of Manhattan.
That's a good idea moving around. So what was the venue like, or will we hear this in your show?
Well, briefly, everyone was questioning whether a public library would be adequate. And I think it was perfectly adequate. The main speaking hall was, oh, not the size of a huge university lecture room or like the size of perhaps a high school auditorium for a moderately large high school.
But it was planning big enough for any of the talks we had in there. The other two rooms were like more like small, which we had in college meant a 35 feet, something a lot of people were thinking, those may have been a little, a little intimate for the number of people that attended some of the talks.
But the nice thing about each of those rooms, each had a 90 inch HDTV to put the plug your equipment into for display.
Very good.
Okay, so we move on to the episode 1723, success with students, speaking of universities and students.
And this was a cabbie who had to do, who's a teacher and how to do a filler, filler class, I think, their voluntary class.
And got his kids interested in podcasting, create a commons music and all the rest of it.
Wonderful show. I really liked it.
It was just one of these feel good. Yes. Win for us. Type episode.
Yeah, and I really liked the way he addressed the whole copyright and creative commons and all of that. And that, you know, he worked with the students to just say, here's some things you really want to be aware of.
Exactly. It's come up as well, you know, so very, very, very, very good.
Well, I mean, it's, it, if you, if you change one person's mind, it's worth the effort. And he, you know, he had at least four going for a while and three sticking with it.
You know, we can't expect, you know, whole classes of students to turn their backs on proprietary software immediately, but you got to make these incremental steps.
And you also introduced the concepts and I know myself that my journey involved a switch to Linux and then a switch back.
And then a switch and then a switch back and a switch and then eventually you just wake up one day finding out that you haven't used another operating system for a year or two.
So you just wipe this redundant partition and be done with your life.
Yeah, but you know, even philosophical philosophical concepts to, to kids like what we had civics, I don't know what it's called.
Another classes, you know, where you ponder about the ethics of society.
The whole discussion about copyright and create common sense as a great introduction in itself.
And this is a great example of introducing that to people and if people choose not to use that's all very well, but at least they're aware of it.
Okay, the following day we had Vim hints tips for Vim users part two.
Yeah, great series. I'm really glad Dave is doing this.
And it's thorough. Oh my god, it's thorough.
And was it this one where he explained what's happening with that swap file when yes, it is the don't panic one.
Hey, I've had that so many times where I've edited a file, you know, sessions broke or the VPN has gone down or gone under a tunnel or something and then come back in and then deleted swap file and then only to be told something has gone wrong.
And that that's explains what was going on. Finally, thank you, Dave. Thank you.
Also with most excellent show notes for everybody who is following along, you can copy and paste.
Yeah, Dave's good at that.
And yes, a lot of great glad.
If you ever see a guy back college when I had a system, you're cutting in and out to 150.
That ain't better.
I think so. Give it a try.
So I learned that I can call it.
Now you get two words and then you're off again.
Okay, I'll get out and come back in and see if it makes a difference.
That ain't different.
Sounds like it.
Okay, sometimes Plumble does that to me.
I was going to say between Frank Bell's.
Episode and which I think we ought to roll those all into one series, I think, but.
I used to know V.I. back in college work back working on a on a Unix terminal.
And of course, that skill has atrophied.
And between the two of them, these episodes have encouraged me to, you know, at least think about getting back into V.I.
So, you know, because there's just some things nano doesn't do very well.
And as you were doing that, I added that to the series, the series.
Excellent.
Speaking of long-running series.
Templates recording billable time using styles to illustrate the usage.
Another example of good show notes, good shows.
And this one is good because I have this thing where I'm printing.
Yeah, spreadsheet styles.
And it was annoying me having to change it every time.
I'm never actually pulled of applying a style to some savings with temperatures.
One of those boom moments on my part.
Yeah, and this is what I did something similar with writer.
And I will undoubtedly do something again with impressed to say, you know, after we've discussed all these things theoretically, let's do a project.
And you know, then you can see everything coming together.
Yeah, it's excellent.
And give us a shout reminder before we should really get on to the liberal office people and do something.
Getting these all these episodes onto a DVD or something that we could give out across promotional things.
Sure.
So creative comments.
There you go.
15 excuses not to record a show for HVR inspired by a recent meeting with Ken Valon.
Nightwides presents 15 excuses not to record a show.
I don't have the right gear.
My sounds is not polished.
I don't know how to upload.
I don't have a radio voice.
I don't have time.
I'm too shy.
I don't have anything to say.
The stuff I like is really neat.
What if I get negative comments who would listen to my show anyway?
I've never done this before.
I get around to a someday recorded this show, but I'm too afraid to submit it.
Takes too long to tell it out the ohms and ours.
And I don't know anything about anything audio.
I don't think he missed any there to you.
I'm going to but I was listening to it thinking, you know, I do all kinds of stuff.
I've got a lot of ohms and eyes and you know, it's not really studio recording or anything.
That seems to work okay.
Exactly folks.
Let's take a step back.
This is HVR.
We're just lads, lassies down in the pub.
Share a few stories about the stuff we're into.
Everybody else that you talk to over there won't understand you like we will.
So just press record and send it in.
That's all you have to do.
Yeah.
The following day, Frank Bell.
The Phoenix from the flame returns with more.
And I am dying.
This was this was one of the ones that I actually wanted somebody to do for such a long time.
And this clarified a lot of things for me.
It's also really great to have Frank recording again.
Absolutely.
And I need to set this up.
No, Frank.
I want Frank to know.
What does.
What does 51 51 Frank to know tune in next week folks.
Same time.
Same channel.
No, I just wanted to know we were discussing this.
This episode last night on Linux floodcast because we're talking about setting up.
I asked if anybody anybody had looked at that episode.
And yeah, they were using this as a basic template.
Excellent.
I'm priming and getting myself a Raspberry Pi to operate the Raspberry Pi that I have here.
And then I intend to use centralized nut.
But yeah, we'll see how it goes.
See how it goes.
Jimmy had finna.
I believe finna is a new contributor as well.
Yes indeed.
With favorite browser extensions.
And some nice ones here I added.
At block edge was one I added that I wasn't aware of.
And there was one other one that I had found out about as well.
But also good show.
Like to like the security.
This into the security.
I think it's a fit.
I think so too.
A lot of the extensions that he talked about were security and privacy related.
Shall we do it?
Shall we do it?
Sure.
And one I'd like to.
That I was a session because I keep open.
If you can save the session you leave Firefox and even if the whole thing crashed.
You can always return and tabs.
Yeah, you're going to have to do an episode on that because you're xyloning big time.
Oh yes, David Whitman with a real hack, harder hack in real life.
With a wood stove and the solution he came up with actually.
Really like the look of his wood stove and his solution to be honest.
There's a PDF in the show notes with the photos of what he came up with.
And of course, I'm very envious of all of you guys who have your own shop.
The following day we had 1730 51 shades of beer.
Part five.
The River City Brewing Company revisits.
And the fiber make it over to Kansas.
I will be bringing 50 over there for some hamburgers of beer.
Yeah, he really makes you want to go out there and visit.
Yeah, I'm so I went to Lawrence.
I'm now up to three brew pubs looking looking at visiting a fourth one in the state.
A couple of weeks.
I have a beer in the fridge, which I've been planning on the attacking shortly.
Just a random one I guess at the.
Actually, the beer quality is quite good.
I've done one of the local shops.
So I might do a review of that perhaps.
Anyway, Swift, one one zero.
Told us about upgrading his old Fujitsu lifebook for 215 with new memory,
new hard disk and stuff.
So yeah, this is actually pretty cool.
I don't know if many people think that think of the concept of upgrading laptops.
You assume that you're going to do that.
But with laptops, I think there's more.
Feeling or especially with them that likes to Apple soldering on the memory that you.
The possibilities for upgrading are not as many for the laptop.
Yeah, Apple is not very friendly to.
Upgraders, but many laptops.
You can upgrade the memory.
You need to take a look at the motherboard specs to see what's possible.
And of course, putting it a larger hard drive is almost always an option.
And I can tell you you can.
You could.
You can really wake up an old machine by putting in an SSD.
Now, I've had some stability problems where I wish that had off external backup.
But as far as speed, boom, you would swear you're running a much newer machine.
Yeah, I can see how that would work.
So we had we were quite low on shows there for a lot of folks, quite low on shows.
Not very impressed, but yes, a regular stepped up to the plate.
And we had renovating another public domain counterpart textbook by John Gulp.
And he, yeah, it's.
I actually have a look at this book and very, very professional.
I have me thinking about, you know, if I was doing.
Books for people have been asked to, you know, about ebooks for people.
How to how to go about this.
This will be my first port to go.
I think.
Oh, absolutely.
And he did a really good job of covering the technical details of how to make everything work together.
But the other thing is that I'm really impressed that he's thinking about the implications of.
You know, textbooks for students cost a fortune.
And yeah, exactly.
You know, it's education in this country, at least, is just becoming unaffordable for a lot of people.
I know where you are.
Where you are, Ken, it's a little bit different.
But out here, I think the tuition each year for the University of Michigan is around 40,000.
And then, you know, your books are probably 150 per textbook and so on.
It's.
You graduate with so much debt.
It's hard to see how you ever get out from under.
Yep.
My personal view is all education should be for.
For everybody.
Plus.
Comrades, come join me.
Well, and with the digital version, at least we can start to get away from the concept of of dead tree textbooks.
However, it may be a little harder to go through and and use a highlighter.
I mean, certainly you could do it.
And in markup.
But I remember having a professor who was writing a textbook, we had to go down to kinkos and print the next chapter.
And by the time you were, you were done paying kinkos every week, you, you could have bought two or three textbooks.
So, I mean, by the end of the semester.
But I mean, now, if you look at my episode on CISS printing, continuously supply systems printing, which bring up because after two and a half years of printing a lot, I finally have to refill the charger.
They ink and that was twenty twenty dollars.
That cost me.
So I've been printing hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of pages.
So, yeah, I think even the concept of having to get the price of printing has come down so much now that even if you don't have a good ebook reader, which a lot of them, you can pick up relatively cheap ebook reader.
If you do need to print off stuff, we want to visit the copy. It's relatively easy to print it off yourself and affordable.
I've kind of converted most of my life over to electronic books anyway.
Well, the thing I have, and my wife mentioned as well, that's gone through a textbook.
You sometimes do need to refer back to, you know, a formula on a particular page or something like that.
That's, you know, the blue, blue, blue, blue, blue, that you have different color, you know, posted notes on the, on the side that's related to different particular strands of thought going through the book.
I find ebooks fine for, you know, just reading a book in a novel.
But for a textbook, it does help to be able to go back and refer to that page where the diagram is and then follow on and then go back and just flick between the two.
It seems like a good idea.
Not in surmountable, but there you go.
The following day, we had Kevin Wisher sent in the Linux logcast, episode three outtakes and these outtakes are as good.
I always say there's good issues as they, as the shows and souls, but it's there.
There's very, very good content in there. So I'm happy to have them on HGIR.
But why are they an hour now?
In 10 minutes of a show of banter and then an hour of a show, it's, it's strange to be that you wouldn't press recording, just release the whole thing.
But we were happy to have them as it was very, looking very poor there on the queue for a while.
We were down to actually having no shows.
Then the following day, we had Vim Hins part three, which of course give Dave the excuse to create a series.
A series has, in fact, been created, moving around and he's done the full show notes as a separate page.
And the show notes, in this case, he's using a markup language, which he can produce an EPO, an EPO book, speaking of EPO books and stuff.
So everything is, he's even included, the HGIR style sheet in his show.
Pretty amazing stuff.
Then the next episode was free to, free tutorials for teachers based on the Libra office thing, which I was very happy to see.
The only thing that I was a bit saddened was to see the free of charge that there's a non-standard copyright license, even if it was a CC by a CNC and non-commercial, I would have, would have been happier with that.
Have I lost everybody?
No, we were just making sure you were done with your thought.
But I mean, this is a great thing that's been released by Professor Poole, because I, a lot of the obstacles to getting open source software in the classroom would be documentation.
Because the average teacher is going to be used to open office.
I'm glad to hear there are some that are open to other possibilities.
Every time I try to integrate open source software at school, I work for people to look at and say, what is this?
Why isn't this the same as everything we've always done before?
Yeah, exactly.
I was just dropped off and dropped back again.
So the following day we had be easy with how I use Linux for my business.
And quite a lot of these I had not heard of before and would be a good idea for together individual episodes on some of them.
The pretty much gone all out as much as we can in any event.
Yep, good stuff.
And Frank Spells episode on five steps to Vim, which if you think Dave's series is thorough, then this is a problem.
This should probably be episode zero of the series.
Just getting you started all you need to know to get started and edit some stuff on them.
Yeah, so and it's a good part of the series.
The following day we had credit card pin breach where we exposed a well known was ignored security breach.
This is sent in by anonymous and it was released on the first of April.
And we basically give a very thorough rundown of all the pin codes that were released.
Yes, and it was not an April fool, huh?
Wow, it's it's moved into a into a separate.
It's the series number has been changed.
Theater episode 1739 was the issues of the imagination part seven, which is lost and Bronx went through some of his.
Yeah, the hardware that he's using and.
There had some recommendations for audio clips wireless theater and the lives of harry line.
And just talked about his test cam dr 40 and the zoom h4n.
Good reviews for those of you who are using audio independent audio devices.
It was it was good.
Excellent show, but we've moved into April.
Was that the plan?
No, that was not the plan.
I was not the plan.
So we'll discuss that next month.
As I don't edit shows, I'm asking everybody to rewind the brains and remove that.
Out of them would be fantastic.
So 50 we have here is the link to the episode, which is.
It's in the mobile.
Where you can see the mailing this discussions that's been going on.
Oh, OK, just a minute.
No, please, please go ahead.
I'll take care of it.
OK, so the first was from sig club looking for a high quality image of the logo, which I passed on through.
I think I might do list and need to make that a little bit more.
All the images a little bit more available.
If somebody has any suggestions, I'd love to hear it.
That I can just drop them into a directory without and they appear without too much problem.
So 50 was asking if anyone's attending Lieber planet.
And if not, comes this Linux fest as the next event.
We had Mike Ray.
Fear on.
Lithuanian.
It's a pun or play on words.
The American writer Hunter S Thompson wrote a book.
Fear and loathing.
And so he's making a play on that.
Lothian being Scotland.
Miss that one.
People are too educated around here.
Well, have you ever read the Doonsbury comic strip?
Kind of.
The character Duke is based on Hunter S Thompson.
OK, fair enough.
Then we had Frank Bell was had just uploaded a show.
I was looking for the show synopsis.
But that's been renamed to show summary because she knows.
So synopsis was confusing people.
Fifth.
Poki.
Patrick Jelly sent out a.
Send out an update that's on April 14th at 8 p.m.
Some time.
Poki.
You know, we use UTC.
I presume it's not going to be a piece PM UTC.
There's the recording of the audio book club.
And I couldn't find the RSS feed on the website.
So I contacted them and got the RSS feed.
And then I hacked together a little script using my favorite tool in the world,
which is XML Starless to make it mix the salty and save it.
And I asked for comments and Dave replied with a better version.
Although he should have replied with a new show.
And then in the middle of that,
Platoon replied obviously not having heard the male list etiquette one.
He changed the data reply and changed the title to travel life.
True life travel stories.
So he is.
So this is another topic.
True life travel story.
So if you've been.
If you've had first-hand experience.
So I wanted to compile a hit for your episode of interesting stories about traveling with computers.
Preferably focused on TSA interaction in an attempt to better understand what these fine defenders of the American way of life are looking for when they are expecting computers.
So if you are interested in doing that, can you reply to that one?
We had 50 looking for the banner for HPR for the event.
I made a minor change to the reserve.
I changed the reserve now to upload now as I was confusing people.
It's amazing how much stuff.
How much stuff I think.
Yeah, go ahead.
What was I thinking?
Anyway, that's it.
We had the good old call for shows.
And basically if you don't have 2015 next to your name on the host page, then start recording a show.
This is not a free podcast.
Nobody said this is a free podcast.
It's gratis as maybe.
But you are required to send in one show a year.
That's all we ask.
Thank you very much.
I better go check right now and see if I'm up to date.
I think you're pretty good to 2016.
Well, the rate you send in shows.
Yeah.
I got some from another promotional material.
But this one was a about a podcast interview for somebody who's done the mind changing.
You know, hacking his or his mind seemed to be fairly targeted.
It seems like they at least knew that we were a podcast and not whatever.
So if somebody's interested in following up that really, it's a free book to free ebook at least.
Then you can, you know, your call.
It's not something I particularly want to do myself.
If you want 50 talking about bad email etiquettes, I don't know how we 50.
How did you even become aware of this show because it wasn't released at the time.
Maybe it was uploaded.
Well, it was either between some of our private conversations or it was out on the list that Dave Morse said something about.
There were somehow some, but there was an email client that was deleting the thread parts during replies.
And I replied, no, that's me manually deleting the thread parts because I don't like to scroll through them.
I already, if I already know what's going on, I didn't realize that that was bad etiquette to do that.
So I won't be doing it anymore.
So seems like half your problems, Kenner, when I do do something that's bad etiquette and you have to remind me to do it differently.
Yeah, you heard of the only one or a mind to do stuff 50.
I think that was actually, as I read it, was a misunderstanding.
If you're editing the body of the email to remove stuff that does not cause problems.
What Dave is talking about is changing what's in the headers.
Yeah, if you will discuss that next month on the show.
Because it was Friday's show.
Exactly, although I must say James Tobias, Tobias, reply about bad email etiquette was excellent.
Giving some very good email rules, always use up a case text, always run long sentences together.
Heavy on the sarcasm.
Oh, I know people who live by those rules, believe me.
And then the last one was HBR notice for this show, actually.
We were joined by David Whitman in the meantime. How are you, David?
I'm doing great. It's afternoon here, so we're just about noon, so I'm able to jump on.
Well, very welcome to have you here. It is almost 9 o'clock in the evening here.
Oh, we had a lot of comments this month, a lot of, lot of comments on episodes, which is great, actually.
So let's start by a comment on episode 1178, which I'm sure there are some of you out there who will know what episode that was.
But it actually was an interview with Laura Clarington and a mere regal.
It was a Foscon 2011 of all things and the link to Foscon appears to be broken and it's 2011.
So yes, that happens with a lot of, it's an interview by CT happens with a lot of our episodes that are up so long.
It's a virtue of the fact we're such a long running, long running podcast and actual fact that's it results in.
Yeah, sometimes we, besides we outlive the people we're talking about.
Yeah, my personal feeling is I wish people would leave stuff up and not break the links, but I could make it a full-time job just going through updating my links all the time
and never get around to creating any new content that I've decided that's just not worth it.
That's my pet peeve actually about the internet.
There's the concept I've heard this fallacy that it's always going to be available on the internet.
And that's not actually true. All that's available on the internet is links to the information.
So all we'll have is your short snippets of great works while the works themselves are gone.
I've had it where I've been trying to track down all the episodes of podcasts and things.
Hundreds upon hundreds of links to it, but nobody actually having all pointing back to the same location, which is unavailable.
But if you go to the site that has all of my labor office stuff and you poke around, you will discover that there is a series of tutorials on DOS.
And I did that years ago. And at a certain point, I thought, oh, no one really cares about this anymore and took it down.
And within about a week, I got an email from a computer science prof saying, put that back. I'm using it.
Absolutely excellent. Well, it's such a problem on HVR Dave and I have been thinking about doing a link checker thing where we check all the links that we have.
And if we don't find them and automatically change the link to, you know, a link is down and then put a link to the archive.org link.
I've always thought it hilarious, at least more than once. Cloud 2 has mentioned that he's trying to figure out a problem and he finds just the perfect article on it that solves his problem.
And then he realizes that he wrote the article.
Yes.
By the way, true. Quite often, I'm looking for a solution to the problem and come across his article. So that's also quite good.
Actually, that's pretty cool and happy thing that has happened more than once where I'm just googling for stuff around in New York.
Don't go in. Don't go in. We'll never turn into a no.
And turn off with someone's size that I never to come as no one on in the internet.
So this is tough.
Okay, two comments to my episode of YouTube downloader script person tried to run the script. So I give them some tips on how to run it.
So we had an episode comment on episode wiki on my raspberry pie by Mr X, which was 2014 0 428.
And it was the comment was see our wiki.
I believe that's CI wiki CI wiki. That's correct. Thank you, which is a docu wiki clone and that's pretty cool.
So then that would be quite cool to me.
It was a huge girls.
Are we no one on breadboard, great show, comments by Mary.
A three volt three.
Met a slight distinction there between what a speaker and a buzzer was.
And that actually helped me immensely Michael sent and comment on that as well.
And about what's a the difference between a buzzer and a speaker is and that's writing three B three is is fairly standard way of describing three point three volts.
So pretty cool. Michael, if you could contribute a few shows that would be great, especially on electronics if you're commenting.
And you're listening to listening. It means you also show.
Boston 15 part five of five.
And somebody just saying that they enjoyed listening to the show.
Thank you very much. Did I? It was great shows.
I really I want to.
I really have. It's a pity that's the MP3's half end Gus or the audio files, half end Gus chapter marks on them because I really would like to forward those people.
There's been about three or four different people where I forward some of those interviews to in work.
So what's in my crate, bezra, and responded with a follow up episode and Mike has replied to that.
And he wanted to know from a developer's perspective how Mike tests applications and uses debuggers and box of SD cards, how he knew.
So very cool. More episodes, not that I'm one half of me is going to create more episodes, but the other half is yet create more micro episodes. So that's pretty cool.
Comment on Dave Morris as Vim hints zero zero one episode nice introduction to Vim. This is by zero X F one zero E.
Saying that OS X comes out with the Vim and for anyone using them under server, the three BST package is Vim light and Vim knocks on a bun to.
Good to know. And Dave common stand about full bone Vim on his Raspberry Pi and stuff.
Commenting on HPR community news from February 2015. We had micro Dave Morris, micro and Dave Morris comment.
Parcel of rogues. And yes, actually, he mentions that I should because I was saying this or this tech of his is pretty cool.
And yeah, it is pretty cool. From the point of view, I have the luxury of only wanting to use it. He has the necessity of having to use it.
And I have been thinking about doing my doing a one of those courses and trying to live a day with a blind goggles on, you know, completely see through goggles and sensory deprivation stuff and see how far I got on.
That will be, that will be worth.
We're doing my wife has done it several times, which he also has done it with other people cause of her profession.
But it's pretty, pretty scary when you put on those and you have to tackle the world without the aid of vision.
And he and Mike are talking about Dave and Mike are talking about something Scottish there, which I absolutely have no clue what they're talking about.
Rob, when you start talking about Robert Burns, then you've lost me.
Yeah, Mike had apparently used the phrase parcel of rogues.
And so I don't know if someone took that a miss or thought that he was saying something negative and it was like, no, it's the Robert Burns quote.
I thought you'd have gotten the reference. Dave Morris, I gather is Scottish.
No, he's a sasnach.
He's only pretending to be Scottish.
No, OK.
No, he's a he lives in Scotland. So there you go.
OK. And there it, you know, how many people will know what sasnach means?
Yeah, no, he's a nice fellow, obviously.
Yes.
I comment on 1521, which is yours, 15 search vacant issues.
And the comment was from that they really enjoyed this show.
Keep them coming, which I hope you do.
Yeah, I've got more that I'm working on.
I must admit, I have kind of slowed down over the last couple of months.
What was going for a new job and everything.
You know, there's you've put in your fair share.
So other people want to step up to the place, there's plenty of free slots.
Yeah, well, I certainly have not stopped.
So we had a comment there on cross compilers, part two by Mike Ray.
And Felix said good job and fantastic series.
And he's making a difficult topic understandable, which I think is kind of the point.
Somebody put in the wrong URL 50.
Yeah, I've been saying links fest dot org months, even though I had the,
I've had the page open in my browser.
It's probably why if I had to retype it, had to find the page again,
I would have realized I've been saying it wrong.
So Dave Wars was at least nice enough to fix my show notes for me,
but I couldn't get it recorded fast enough to get it back in and fix it before it went out.
Also, Ken, you skipped over the comment.
Comment by Mike Ray was left for me on 17, 18.
I'm surprised how much response that has got though.
I started to think what you and the hookah said about it before, before I got on,
but Peter 64 also made a comment on that episode telling me I should get my toolbox cleaned out.
Yeah, we happened to that yet.
We did talk about that.
You'll hear it when the episode comes out.
Okay, we did.
Yeah, you skipped over.
That was a great episode.
What's in my toolbox and I have some old permatex around here if you need it.
What's this?
I've got all kinds of old permatex.
It's a basket sealer.
It's this black stuff.
It's kind of like silicon.
And you, when you put it, when you put a gasket on something like a water pump,
you spread that sealer on at least one side of the gasket and it forms a better seal.
Okay, yeah.
They come into us from Mike in a great episode.
It was right there.
All I could do at the end was not to go and wash the oil and grind from his hands.
Yes, I had that feeling myself.
And I'm thinking I could turn that into a series.
I could do it.
What's behind the seat in my pickup?
What's in my what's in my glove box?
What's in the passenger seat?
What's in the bed of my pickup?
Yeah.
Yeah, just on the comment about the episode 1722 Kansas Linux Fest,
you have recorded a show and uploaded it.
But once it hits the midnight or UTC and the show is released,
then it becomes a pain to redistribute it.
So I can, if I know about it, I can change.
Okay, just tell you how the workflow goes.
If, if you upload a show, what I'd prefer is not talking to you 50 on 50,
if one, the community uploads a show, then you can upload a slot.
And once you upload, you're kind of expected to have the show finished.
So the last thing that you do is you go and you upload a show.
So you've recorded the show.
You've done whatever editing that you wanted to do with us.
And then you're ready.
That's when you hit the website and you upload it.
You have the option there to pick a slot and then upload it via FTP
or send it via snail mail or whatever.
If you're uploading it via FTP, I kind of expect in my head
that I will see that coming within an hour of the email coming up from,
to me, that you have finished uploading the show.
And if I don't see it within a day, then I start to worry about
because what's going on.
If you want to reserve a slot, you can also do that,
but slots need to be reserved via the mailing list.
So nothing has changed with that whole process.
We do have an agreed procedure for reserving a slot.
So if you want to reserve a slot on somebody's birthday to commemorate
some event that's happened, then just fire off an email to the mailing list
and say, I would like to reserve the slot for this reason.
And I have yet to see anybody argue with that.
Then you can go and you can pick the days and counter and just simply reserve the slot.
So if you are just uploading a show and you have it already recorded,
then you want to upload a show, but you want to send it via email via the postal service
or you want to send it via URL or you want to send it via in person.
Then you need to make sure that there's enough time between you reserving the slot
and allowing it to get physically to me so that I can upload it and that I have time to do it.
Now we do have a EHPR feed.
So what can happen is a show gets posted and the actual content of the show
needs to be edited or modified for one reason or another.
For example, it might be breaking something needs to be updated.
So it is possible, up until the moment of release, which is UTC,
midnight UTC of the day that you're releasing.
It is possible for me to go in and change that.
Certain people who have subscribed to they give me everything as soon as it's posted
to the website feed will end up missing out the changes.
But that was a part and parcel of subscribing to that feed.
So if you don't want that to happen, then yeah, subscribe to the regular feed.
That was the deal when we put that one up.
If we submit a show once it's been submitted, then it's submitted.
And it has gone down to lots and lots of people.
And I can force another update on the RSS feed by changing the file name
and changing the publication days in the XML that will force another copy of that episode down.
But we don't do that because for start people are paying for bandwidth.
And for a second, it is not my place to send down another show.
The only time we've done it, I think we've done about five times in the in as far as I can remember.
In twice and HPR timeframe.
And all of those times are because the audio files were cropped.
So we had to send down a new file.
So once it's released, I'm afraid it's released.
And what we can do is the next available slot.
We can, as we did with this one, we downloaded this show from the next day.
Added a text to speech.
Should be let the beginning correcting the information.
And hopefully people will get it the day after that's the best we can do.
So that's an explanation of, of basically what happens there.
And but you also need to be aware that I need to be aware of it.
It's not enough to just send uploaded to the FTP server or send an email.
You need to actively make sure that I respond before you can presume that something will happen or you can't take Dave or you can't take Josh or somebody.
Yep, so hopefully that's explained that.
Okay, back to the comments.
We had a lot of comments about success with students.
And, uh, Kevin, uh, Kevin should know I listened to every HPR episode, even the ones from Scotland.
And we had Dave Morris saying that was an excellent show as well.
We had comments on Bim hints, part two.
Great series wants to really get his fingers.
Looks to me like the Emax needs to do a counter play here.
Yeah, yeah.
Oddly enough.
That sounds like a direct challenge to clock two.
Emax was the first unique senator I've ever used, even though at the time I didn't know I was using it.
Of course, it could have been nanow either because they share quite a lot of commands.
You'll have to be started thinking looking more into the eye and the amount of information is vast.
You say he's looking to find out more information.
Some comments on 15 excuses not to record a show for HPR.
UNV laughing at the reminder.
Anonymous going good points.
Maybe I'll do one maybe on basic most.
There were quite a lot of comments.
Great show.
From archer 72, the RC file can be reloaded without restarting most.
Jonas was didn't realize that you could use Bim as a text editor and using a text browser URL view text math line.
Good stuff.
Or a stack house.
Commented automating alias file creation.
And uses Bim auto commands to do some of his automation.
And also points out a link.
And says that there's a points a link to some most tips and tricks.
Next episode was a favorite browser extensions by Finn.
And comment was from Zolster was other youth for browser extensions congratulating on the good episode.
And then there was privacy badger, which I had not heard about.
And SSL slew.
Two of whichever was not aware of and both of which I installed.
So thank you very much for those.
Yeah, privacy badger is relatively new, but I think it's better than ad block.
Good list touches is becoming.
Coming clear.
Sheels up comment on David's show about the heat shield saying junk code was saying it was beautiful and how could his wife possibly think it was ugly.
I personally think it's very, very nice.
I like the wood stove as well.
Thank you.
Also very jealous of your shop.
I mentioned that earlier on in the show.
The bad thing is my wife took over half of the building, so I only really have half what I should know.
Oh, you poor thing.
She uses it for dog training and exercise.
She'll you can tell her both topics of interest hackers.
So you can have her just play some HVR shows in the background.
And then she'll be required to send in the show.
I am not sure that she's in the HPR at all.
She kind of wonders what I'm doing.
Good stuff from the keep them come and keep them come.
I would like to interview her though sometime about dog training because lots of people have dogs.
You can see that you just go down to the supermarket and you can see how much dog foods.
Yeah.
Mike Ray commenting on the episode about arch Linux on the pie.
Good episode about beer and he has a script to post arch images on the pie.
Oh, by the way, 50.
Why are you doing two episodes of one?
Well, sometimes I don't have very much to say on a topic, just something brief.
So I kind of fold it in.
But yeah, some of the stuff from KLF stuff that was going to fold in.
I actually made into a separate podcast.
So we're going to try stretching some stuff out.
Yeah, just so you know everybody, they episodes don't need to be long, long asses.
If you've got a tape and it's like two sentences of a tape, send it in as an episode.
Thank you very much.
So he also, Mike Ray, includes a link to the Dropbox to get arch on to the Raspberry Pi.
That might be a useful link for lots of people.
Yeah, thanks very much for that Mike because I'm going to probably, you know,
I'm going to set up my old pie as a server and reconnected to external drives to it.
And if I decide to find it, arch is going to be my server OS.
I'm definitely going to use your script to put on the bare metal rather than going through noobs.
Excellent.
On John Coates, renovating another public domain countertext book.
We had Robert Stackhouse saying slashes an easy new manic.
At least for me is to remember a slash direction in a way top corner of the slash is pointing.
So forward slash back slash.
So look at the top corner. Yeah, that makes sense.
Almost there folks, almost there.
Running a small business using the next Jonathan Colp says excellent episode wanted to try a ranger two years ago.
And totally forgot about it.
I have no idea what ranger is and I look forward to either his or be easy's episode on it.
Then on the five steps to them episode, we had a comment by soldier two links broken hatred and Dave had them fixed.
And Dave, of course, saying that Frank very enjoyable show and it was a great way to get people who are nervous about them past their first hurdles.
In fact, I think this episode is going to be I'll be giving it out myself as a just call listen to this first.
And last but not least, what's in my pickup toolbox by oh, we've already done this.
Oh, here it came to the end of the list for some reason 50.
We already covered it. Mike Ray, great podcast.
Yeah, I'm seeing it in the normal place from.
No, I opened them up in my tabs. It was on the I had opened up all my tabs.
And I think I clicked it as first and then it went to the end and all the other ones came in between.
Well, I'm I'm flattered and that must that must have been your favorite episode for the month.
This it was actually one of those I mentioned this during the during the show that I really enjoyed.
A lot of the I just don't you need to clean your stuff to get all your tools, put them all in one place.
Being a farmer is not an excuse.
So I think folks, that's pretty much it. Does anyone else have anything else to come to?
Oh, yeah, there was a in the last few days, there was some server moves.
Josh from an honest host calm where we have a 15% discount on shared hosting.
Has moved our server over and there's been a few little hiccups on the back end, which you probably want to have noticed.
Mike has said that there are some issues with the menu and the CSS.
So there's several people working on that.
I hope to get updates soon that I can put into the CSS for the website.
If you have anything that you know, just on the website that I'm working.
Fire us off email or better yet come in with add this line to this file type stuff.
And so long as it obviously doesn't break anything that will get added to the website.
We're all about accessibility and we're all about improving the experience for everyone.
Anyone know of any events coming up that we should tell people about?
Well, there is Pangwakan coming up in three weeks.
Tell us more about that.
Why I thought you'd never ask.
Pangwakan is a convention in the suburbs of Detroit, Michigan in the United States.
That is a combination of a very extensive technology track combined with a science fiction convention.
And I have about a hundred hours of programming.
And in fact, I'm probably going to record a program this afternoon and upload it that will go in great detail on all of this stuff.
But we've got people like Bruce Nyer coming in and talking and folks from a canonical from red hat from Maria DB from Zenos from Docker.
So be a lot of good stuff happening.
Are you going to be hit to your table or at least roving reporters?
Probably not because I'm way too busy to do that.
Okay, anyone going to Pangwakan get in touch and we will send you the stuff that you need to be our roving reporter there.
And Ken Linux fashion Northwest is a 25th and 26th of April to be the same weekend as Pangwakan.
You won't expect to see a hookah there, but I just got the word here this morning that 11 geeks are landing in Portland and getting a van.
Or they're going to 11 geeks are leaving from Portland.
I don't know how many of them are landing at the airport.
They're driving the five and a half hours to belling him.
Washington with the Linux Fest Northwest is held.
We're wondering if I was on the way and I'm actually driving myself.
I'll be seeing those guys up there and I'm taking my zoom with me to get some interviews.
No, I try to get a table there and I waited a little too long and missed out on getting a table.
So I've got a handful of stickers in my zoom.
So be getting some information and some shows there.
And I'm pretty sure door to door geek is the instigator of that van.
Yeah, drinking while driving is not allowed.
Of course in Washington, I'm sure they're not going to do that.
And I don't know who the driver is actually maybe try to get some more info about that.
Yeah, he likes to do that.
Last year he drove from Baltimore out to Ohio Linux Fest and loaded up the car with a bunch of people, including our friend Jonathan NATO.
I hope he was enjoying it.
Well, I wouldn't put it past him.
No, that is true.
And guys, if there's anyone listening as well who have shows coming up, feel free to send us in notifications so that we can put it in to
put little promo shows in into the feed and that we can mention those on community news and stuff.
Can I am also, you know, this isn't about a show, but there's a certain person in Dallas, Texas, who has something interesting to share that he should be sharing with HDR.
Yeah, based down there.
And so he knows who he is.
I'm sure so he needs to get on the stick.
Absolutely.
I don't want to do too much of a housekeeping task here, but I still have HPR's H1 recorder.
Dave is going to Northwest Linux Fest, which I was considering and you're and you're going to be a pincon.
Do you want me to send you the recorder because Dave's going to have his with him?
No, because I don't think I'm going to have any time.
I'm responsible for the whole tech track for this convention and I will probably be running around like a crazy person.
Yeah, we need somebody to volunteer to go who's going to that show to see if they can get a group of people together to organize interviews and stuff.
Yeah, volunteers, step forward.
Okay, well, if there isn't anything else, then I will bid you all a deal and tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker.
I think you just curdled the milk.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Good night.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, Share a Life, 3.0 license.
