Episode: 1582
Title: HPR1582: An Open Source News Break from Opensource.com
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1582/hpr1582.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 05:16:59

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's Aniston Fair at AnanasThost.com.
Good day Hacker Public Radio.
This is Semiotic Robotic bringing you an open source news break from opensource.com.
You may remember that in June Tesla Motors said it was releasing its patent portfolio, particularly
those patents related to its charging station technology.
At the time Tesla CEO Elon Musk claimed the company was doing so, quote, in the spirit
of the open source movement.
In our business channel, writer Travis Keppley takes a look at precisely what Musk might
mean by this statement.
He likens Tesla's move to Microsoft's attempts to contribute code to the Linux kernel.
Both companies, Keppley writes, are trying to exert some influence over the core technologies
that seem critical to their respective futures, even if their actions appear self-serving.
It is more than likely that Microsoft contributed code to the Linux kernel primarily because
it benefited them, Keppley says.
But hasn't that been one of the fundamental arguments as to why open source is better?
If it's not working for you, fix it.
If you work out in the open, others can also improve it, which further benefits you.
What's good for the goose is good for the gander, so to speak, he says.
Ultimately, Keppley writes, Tesla's decision demonstrates the way open source thinking
allows sharing to become a strategic and potentially lucrative business maneuver.
In our life channel, we're featuring another thought-provoking piece by Jumla Community
Manager David Hurley, who writes about what he thinks are the 12 most pressing challenges
for any open source project.
Among these, he says, are establishing a shared vision, reconciling contributors' personal
ethics with the goals of the project, and implementing a fair but expedient peer-review
process.
Hurley also provides ways to overcome these obstacles.
There will always be pain points, an open source, and no community is perfect, Hurley
writes.
However, the argument that open source communities are somehow less ideal than a closed-sourced
corporation is simply untrue.
And finally, in our health channel, opensourths.com Community Manager Jen White offers an update
on GNU Health, a GPL licensed free software tool aimed at assisting healthcare facilities
in rural areas and developing countries.
The project began in 2006, White says, and has since evolved into a health and hospital
system that the United Nations, public hospitals and ministries of health and countries like
Argentina, and even private institutions all over the world continue to use today.
You can examine the code and the project at health.new.org.
That's the end of another open source news break from opensourths.com.
You can read the stories I've discussed via the links in this episode's show notes.
And you can always find more opensourths news at opensourths.com.
Until next time, this is semioticrobotic, wishing you peace, love, and open source.
For more information, visit www.hprlistner.com and visit www.hprlistner.com for more information.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how
easy it really is.
HECCA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the Creative Commons' Attribution
ShareLife 3.0 license.
