Episode: 1471
Title: HPR1471: Encrypt Your Stuff With Blowfish 
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1471/hpr1471.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 03:43:28

---

.
Hello everybody, my name is Sigflup. Sigflups in a slobble. That is welcome to another
episode of Hacker Public Radio in this episode. I'm going to be talking about
encrypting all your stuff with blowfish, which is fun. This is going to be the
easy way to do it. I've been doing this for a while and I've been sitting here
like in my place wondering what to do, kind of bored. I don't feel like doing
anything productive and so I thought I should do something productive. It's just
to force myself to do something productive and like well let's make a radio
show and so I poked around my computer like what could we do and then I noticed
all these files that ended with that BF. I tend to encrypt these files and I
always end them with that BF and those are the files that encrypt just that BF
that blowfish and I could do that. I could talk about that. So this is what I'm
going to talk about. I'm going to talk about encrypting your stuff with blowfish.
Blowfish being a cipher and it's going to be real simple. It's going to be
simple as hell. So this is what you do. If you want to encrypt a file you type
open SSL. You have it. You probably have open SSL. If your computer can
generate, if your computer can generate SSH keys, you probably have it. So I'm
willing to bet you have it. If you just type open SSL, I'm willing to bet that
you have it. Type open SSL, space BF, space-e and then encrypt stuff. Simple as
that. You type that in and you enter in a key and it takes the standard input
and encrypt it to the standard output. So you pipe it in a file and pipe it out
to another file and there you go. It's simple as that. Now to decrypt you use
change it to open SSL, space BF, space-d and then you type in your key and
that decrypts it. So simple as that. Put those in the show notes. I usually
use it to encrypt movie files because I'm just a bit paranoid about people
seeing movies on my computer going, oh well, where do you get all these movies?
So I tend to obfuscate the names and encrypt them. And so it's just a matter of
decrypting them. You can decrypt them too. You can just decrypt it to standard
out. So you can decrypt it to an M-player instance, which is nice, which is
what I like to do. And so, yeah, there you go. Open SSL. You can do a lot more
step with open SSL, like credit SSL search, for instance. That was my
person encounter with open SSL. You can do just all sorts of things. There's
probably a man page for it. So have fun with it. And take care everyone.
Thanks for listening. Bye-bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio. Our Hacker Public Radio does
are. We are a community podcast network that releases shows every week day
on Deathly Friday. Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a
HPR listener like yourself. If you ever considered recording a podcast, then
visit our website to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the Digital.Pound and the Infonomicum Computer Club. HPR is
funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are
sponsored by Lina Pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to
LinaPages.com for all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stazers, today's show
is released under a creative commons, attribution, share a like, three-dose
