Episode: 1608
Title: HPR1608: Interviews at Lincoln LUG
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1608/hpr1608.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 05:47:04

---

It's Wednesday 1 October 2014.
This is an HBR episode 1608 entitled, Interview at Lincoln LG and is part of the series,
Interviews.
It is posted by first time post-colonominal and is about 45 minutes long.
Feedback can be sent to callinominal at callinominal.org or by leaving a comment on this episode.
The summary is a collection on short interviews with Lincoln LG members.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Get your web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello everyone.
This is Hacker Public Radio and my name is Philip Newbora.
This is my first submission to HBR and it consists of a collection of interviews which
I made at the Lincoln Linux user group meeting held on the evening of Wednesday the 17th
of September 2014.
During the meeting I interviewed 10 fellow Lug members and asked them all the same three
simple questions.
The participating Lug members were not given the questions in advance of their interviews
and the resulting answers were quite varied and interesting.
Hopefully this collection of interviews will provide you the listener with a good understanding
of the broad mix of Linux users who attend Lincoln Lug.
My apologies for any background noises you may hear during the interviews.
Lincoln Lug holds its meeting on the third Wednesday of each month at Lincoln Bowling
Alley.
I conducted the interviews outside of the Alley so you may or may not hear the occasional
bowler leaving the building or chitchatting in the background.
I hope this does not distract too much or ruin your enjoyment of this episode of HBR.
So we have no further ado on to the interviews.
So this is the first interview at Lincoln Lug, I am about to interview, well I will have
me introduce yourself so if you could just state your name for the listeners of Hacker
Mowler Radio please.
And I am Dave Armer, a friend of Phil's from Waybacker of the Days of Gelders.
I have got a feeling nobody is going to know what that is but it is basically Dave and
I worked together for a while so it is still with even therapy for it now.
Okay, so back to the format, I have got a few questions for you Dave, so what was your
first Linux experience?
Ah, crikey.
Several years ago it was a CD or DVD Rob Margoth, Phil, of a very basic version of Linux.
I was sort of running on a Pentium 133 at the time, so I have never really got into
it till recently, so I have now installed Linux Mint, Quiner and going for that sort of
thing at the moment and using it as a sort of software and hardware diagnostics laptop.
Okay, that is great.
So that has answered my first and second questions actually because the second question was
going to be what is your desktop at the moment.
If you fail, I have the desktop at home is Windows 7 but actually my software and testing kit
is my laptop on Linux Mint, okay and that is running Cinnamon?
Ah, yeah, it is running the Cinnamon 32 bit at the moment.
I might go up sort of the next level sort of thing to try and get a bit more out of it
as time goes on, so, okay, cool.
So are there any tools or utilities that you cannot live without?
Wi-Fi.
The main thing at the moment and pretty much the idea of being able to get on the internet
so now the other half of the moment we have something chronic if I can't get access
to the internet as well, so yeah, definitely Wi-Fi, so.
Okay, so for the benefit of the listeners, Dave's got a Broadcom card and we're spending
tonight's Lincoln Log Meeting trying to get it installed for him.
To be fair, it's not going to be a huge issue, we're just waiting for a USB stick, so once
we've got that, we'll be good to go.
So Dave, can the listeners find you anywhere on Twitter or Facebook?
Yep, Twitter is DJ Armor on the score on 5.22 and it's just the picture of the jolly
green giant of all things, so I am and Peter was saved for Facebook, but it is a picture
of what's Cluster's bunny suicide because it was a quite funny book that was out when
I was a young lad and the guy is still drawing a few photos for it and a few images for
it now, so I think if I remember correctly, it's a bunny rabbit held up by two legs.
The rope is attached to palm trees with a tight string between the middle of it and it's
trying to cut the string with its legs.
Excellent, thanks Dave, you lost me somewhere, but yeah brilliant, thank you very much.
Okay, so I'm at Lincoln Log and this is my second interview of the night and this is with
Miles Fess.
Miles, you're a regular log member, you come quite often.
Yeah, you should come quite often, been here for the past two years.
Okay, that's great, so I've got a couple of questions for you, they're pretty basic,
you should be able to answer them.
Sure.
So the first one is, what was your first experience of Linux?
I used a live CD of Nobix that came with PC format, it was just like CD runs boot up
and I like proper work into some environment.
Okay, that's cool, so what Linux distribution are you using at the moment and what desktop
environment or window manager?
I'm using Arch Linux at the moment, I've been doing for the past year and I hadn't
distro'd hopped for ages and at the moment I'm using GNOME3, previously I was using open
box, however though since the latest version of GTK sort of messed up the traditional desktop
lock, so it's sort of normal GTK free app, it looks a bit like crap on it because the
GNOME developers and the GTK developers have just got the heads at their own direction
and seem to be neglecting, people don't use the environment outside GNOME or window managers,
but hopefully I've heard it's going to, I've heard that 3.14 did going to write cloud
side decorations for digital things as well, so that will come handy.
Okay, cool, so that's using GNOME3 at the moment but previous to that you were using open box.
Yeah.
Okay, so the third question, what utilities or tools can you not live without?
DDF disc, because they're pretty useful lately and probably Samba, because we've got windows
computers laying around from the family, so I've got to use that for network shares.
Okay, so on a sort of regular tool you use on a daily basis.
Oh, tools, use the regular basis?
Vim.
So you're a Vim user?
Yeah, it seems to work on an early FV format.
Okay, that's cool.
So that's pretty much it, just finally, can listeners of HBR find you on Twitter or Facebook
or anything like that?
Farming on Facebook and Twitter, whoever they'll update a profile for a while?
That's fine, watch your Twitter handle.
Handle?
User name.
Oh yeah, it's just miles.face.
Okay, cool.
Thank you very much, Miles.
Okay.
So I'm at Lincoln Log, and this is my third interview at the night, and I'm about to interview...
Phil Gobbit.
Okay, brilliant.
So Phil, there's a few questions for you.
The not trick question is just answer honestly, and you know, will be good.
So your first question is, what was your first experience of Linux?
Oh, tiny call, Linux.
Believe it or not.
I don't know.
Yeah, no, I believe it, tiny call.
That's actually, I think we discussed this last month, so it's an interesting distro.
Okay, so second question.
What is your current distro choice, desktop environment or window manager?
Oh, current Linux distro is puppy, and we have experimented with them.
LDE, and open box as well, with tiny call.
But yeah, I haven't done too much in the last month or so since we last chatted about it.
Okay, that's cool.
So open box, that's interesting actually, I think you're the third person.
Yeah, the third person of interview tonight, and nobody said the big main distro at the moment.
So that's a pretty good going, I think.
Final question.
What the next tools, stroke, utilities, can you not live without?
I think the partition manager, other than that, I'm still learning the command line,
which is like so much more powerful than the windows environment, which is really blowing my mind at the moment,
just learning all the commands and what they can do.
And things that used to take me forever, editing binary data in hex editors,
I can do from the command line using in a various functions and tools that I couldn't do before.
So are you a nano, a VIM, EMAX, what floats your boat?
EMAX.
That's enough from Phil.
No brilliant, thank you Phil.
And only EMAX, because years and years ago, it was the first thing I ever encountered when I was working in the Unix world.
Fair enough.
I generally don't do a lot of editing in the terminal, so if I do, I just bang open nano and just do one,
doing gear or so, but all respect you for using EMAX.
And finally, sorry.
If the listeners of HBR wanted to find you on Twitter or Facebook or any social media, can they do that?
They can, it's at Phil Dobbett.
Thanks a lot, thank you very much Phil.
Cheers.
So, I'm at Lincoln Lug.
This is my fourth interview.
And I am interviewing...
Joe, mention. Hello.
Hi, Joe.
So, we're at Linux for the user group.
Lincoln.
Yeah.
You use Linux?
I do.
In fact, I use CrunchBang.
Okay.
We won't dwell on that.
So, the...
So, I've basically got...
I've got three questions for you.
Well, come on, I'll explain why. It's not just because you write it.
Well, yeah.
Okay, so, I've got...
I'm just going to ignore the CrunchBang stuff.
Okay.
So, I've got three questions for you.
First one is, what was your first experience of Linux?
Oh, my lord.
I guess it was probably quite an earlyish Ubuntu before Hardy Heron.
I remember had horrible time trying to get internet access sorted out wirelessly and things like that had to delve into it.
So, it was a bit of a baptism by fire.
Sort of, you know, everything just plugs in and works nowadays.
That's great, but in those days, we had to get a bit dirty.
Yeah, I remember those days.
So, that would have been like a Heron.
It was before Heron.
It was before Heron.
I can't remember what it was before Heron.
It's sort of a crusty canoe or something, I'm not sure.
You know what I was like.
Yeah, those damn pesky code names.
Yeah.
Okay, we're just going to say it's what we all hug and be done with it.
I've never used what we all hug.
I went on to other things.
I think you all hug maybe in the first.
I could be wrong.
No.
Okay.
It wasn't the first one.
Okay, good answer.
Right.
Second question.
Okay.
What distribution are you using at the moment?
And what desktop environment or stroke window manager?
Right, well, I like Debian-based distros and I use quite a lot of old equipment.
So it's got to be quite lean, which is why I use CrunchBang.
So when I use it pretty much out of the box most of the time.
Okay, so I know.
So I know if they're about CrunchBang.
Yeah.
It's basically Debian with open box heavily customized towards providing a good out-of-the-box experience
with an open box.
Yeah.
Okay, let's move on quickly.
Well, I'll just say that the kids will endorse it as well.
Because each one of those who've got experience with Ubuntu, Mint, whatever end up asking me to put CrunchBang on their machines
because it's faster.
And it looks dead cool.
And my daughter who is dating someone who does computing science at Birmingham University is going,
I've got CrunchBang and he's going, oh, wow.
It's cool.
Okay, it's cool.
I'll take your word for it.
Right.
Okay.
Third question.
Yeah.
What tools, stroke utilities, can you not live without?
What on Linux or on other operating systems, I'm asking, just because the most important one to me, I'm afraid, is get-I player.
Which probably puts me in lots of people's bad books.
But that's on Linux.
So, you know, that's why I've always got to have a Linux box with me.
That's a fair answer.
So, I'll take it.
You watch a lot of, what is it you're downloading?
Is it episodes of Doctor Who and stuff like that?
Stuff like that, yeah.
Makes it.
Yeah, I've got a friend in the States who perhaps wants to be able to see it a bit before, then she would otherwise, you know.
Okay, well, no, it's a fair answer.
Get-I player.
I think it's like, is it a pearl script or, it's fairly, it's a shell script or something.
It's a shell script, it hasn't really got a go-e.
I know some people try to put a go-e together for it for a while, but no, you just, you do it in bash.
That's it.
Excellent, great answer.
Okay, so, thanks for the interview.
For the listeners of HPR.
I'm sure who normally breaks computers.
That's my job, I break them.
Someone's got it.
It's my Linux, you don't break it, is that?
Can the listeners find you on Twitter or Facebook or anywhere like that?
Oh, yeah, if they want to shout at me.
If you Google Happy Bun, generally you'll find it.
It's H-A-W-P-I-B-U-N.
Excellent, thank you very much.
Okay.
Thank you.
Bye.
Okay, so I'm at Lincoln Lug, and this is my fourth interview of tonight, and I'm interviewing...
Graham.
...by Graham.
Thanks for taking part.
So, there's going to be a really short interview.
There's like three questions.
The first question is, what was your first experience of Linux?
My first experience of Linux was when I bought it from PC World.
I bought Suis Linux 6.1, and I got it home.
I tried to install it, but by the time I finished installing it, and X, and Window Manager,
it filled up my entire hard drive, so I was stuck after that.
So, not a very positive first experience, but I persevered.
I remember the day.
So, I think mine was probably, it might have been the same box, actually.
It was like a big white Suis box set, and at about six CDs.
Yeah, they all had a geometric construction on the box, and every different version had a different one.
Yeah, I remember the day.
So, that would have been, like, not early internet, in terms of internet, but in the UK,
we're probably talking much before broadband speed.
So, if you wanted to get, like, a full distribution, you get it on a large box set of CDs.
Yeah, I had a 33.6K modem.
So, I was able to download some of the distributions, where you would have one boot disk and one root disk,
but saving up my pocket money and buying it was the only option for me then.
That's sweet.
Right, so, second question.
I think I've got an idea that this one might be interesting for the listeners.
What distribution are you using at the moment?
What desktop environment and or window manager?
The distribution I use on my laptop is Debian.
I tend to use CentOS on service.
I don't have a window manager as such.
I don't have a desktop environment, but I do use the X-Men and a window manager.
And any of the general things that I tend to do,
test that I tend to do, I tend to just use the terminal for,
apart from browsing the web, which I use as a web browser for.
Okay, I've seen Graham's machine, it's pretty epic.
What branch of Debian are you using?
I'm using testing at the minute, and I'm starting to regret that,
because I'm having a few problems.
Life can't seem to shut the machine down.
System D always seems to hang.
So, I think if I were going to reinstall, I'd probably use stable.
I think I've spoken during the past, then, you've been using seed or unstable.
How come you swapped?
Because I found that I was having to use packages that were produced
outside of Debian.
The versions in seed would often advance beyond the constraints
that I was stuck with with these other packages.
Then I'd have to go and get all these other packages and build them
for source just to match exactly what was in seed at the time.
Trying to use packages from outside of seed was too much work.
Okay, good answer.
I think we're pretty much alike then, because I'm using testing at the moment.
I don't know, I think it's looking like it's going to be a pretty good Debian release.
I think it goes into, Jesse's going to go into freeze about November time.
So, probably doesn't matter so much for Graham,
because if you were using X-Mainad,
it doesn't, it's not a, you can't install that as a sort of like
one of the sets, task selector type environments, can you?
You have to basically install it yourself.
It's not like selecting one of the big three, say known KDE or XFCE.
I don't know what the process by, which you get one of those on,
it's started by just with the plane installed without X.
And then I forced just what I wanted to be installed by app to get installing X-Mainad
and just letting that pull X and all the dependencies it needed.
Okay, yeah, that sounds pretty much similar to what I do.
But I think during the installation process in Debian there's like,
it's called task cell and it gives you the option to install various components
such as desktop environment.
And I think, at the moment actually, I think for Debian,
the default environment is XFCE.
So you probably just answered that when you did your basic install, didn't you?
Probably, I think I've just learned about task cell.
And the fact that FCE is the default, I didn't know that.
Well, you do now.
No, I'm only thinking that I think that it's in this concentrated flux,
I think, because when testing was for, I was about to say,
well, what's the current stable? Is it weasy?
I think they, while that was in testing, I think they chose XFCE for that.
And then at the last minute, they switched to the name.
So I think it's one of those things that is not defined until right at the last minute.
So anyway, I'm off of it now.
So the third question, what tools stroke utilities can you not live without?
I need to think about that for a second.
It's OK, take your time. There's no rush.
I couldn't live without iPython, because there's so many little tasks
that I just need an interactive shell with a decent scripting language to be able to do.
OK, that's a good answer.
Brilliant, thanks.
OK, so for the listeners of HDR, can they find you on Twitter or Facebook or anything like that?
You mean there's people going to be listening to me?
Possibly.
OK, they can find me on Twitter. It's G-Marcle.
Excellent. Well, thank you for taking part, great.
Thank you for having me.
You're welcome.
OK, so I'm at Lincoln Log, and this is my fifth interview of the night.
And I'm about to interview Sarah Marcle.
Hello, Sarah. So are you related to my previous interview?
Yes, but not by blood, only by my reach.
OK, so you're his wife.
Yes. OK, so.
It's all legal.
OK, so that's good to know.
Right, so basically I've got three questions for you.
They're super simple. There's no trick questions.
Yeah, just answer honestly and truthfully.
We'll be good.
So the first question is, what was your first experience of Linux?
It was with my lovely husband.
He joined the Linux user group at Imperial, and he introduced me to the weird and wonderful ways
of actually having a computer that works.
Brilliant, excellent answer. Thank you.
You're looking really worried.
So the second question, what is what Linux distribution you're using at the moment
with and what Windows Manager or desktop environment?
I think I've got Fabian at the minute, and I've definitely used an X Moon app and I love it.
That was my love it.
I love it.
That's brilliant. OK, last question.
I have to remember this one.
Tools, applications, utilities to use on the daily basis, which you can't live without.
Is it?
Kind of.
Everything?
Yes.
OK, that's brilliant.
So I mean, there's no, you're looking at me gone out.
It's not a trick question.
So things like, do you use any particular editors or web browsers or any terminal tools,
anything like that?
I think I use Edit Plus.
I think so.
No, I use G-Edit.
I use G-Edit now.
Yeah, and yeah, I like that you can just pseudo-apps install programs that you don't have to worry about
getting them. It's really simple.
Yeah, OK, so that's pretty good.
It sounds like you're just like using it because it works.
Yeah.
So yeah, you've got it at the package management system, so you just use it because it works.
You can install things. You don't have to go searching the internet for tools and stuff.
You can just install things and use them and not have to worry about it.
Yeah.
OK, that's brilliant.
Like I said, there's no trick.
There's no trick questions here.
OK, so finally, for the HPL listeners, can they find you on Twitter or Facebook or anything like that?
Yes, you can find me on Twitter and I am at the actual service.
Brilliant, thank you.
The actual service.
You're welcome.
OK, so I'm at Lincoln Lug again.
This is my sixth interview of the night and I'm interviewing Becky Nubra, saved the best till last.
Who said you were last? I might have some luck.
But I'm the best.
OK, I'll give you that.
So I'm going to ask you three simple questions.
There's no trick questions here.
Try to answer as honestly as you can.
Factually, as well, please.
So the first question is, what was your first experience of Linux?
My first experience of Linux was when I met you and you introduced me to open source computing.
OK, good answer.
Second question.
What Linux distribution are you using at the moment?
What desktop environment or window manager?
So that's more than one question.
Yeah.
OK, I'm using the wife's bin of CrunchBang Linux.
I think...
Oh, you're going to test me on the bloody window, man, if that I'm using now.
Do you want to know if it's openbox or KDE?
What are you going to ask me?
I don't bloody know.
The one where I click on the desktop.
OK, good answer.
So for the benefit of the listeners, it's openbox.
Yeah, you build it. I use it.
Yeah, there's a fair answer.
Last question.
What applications, stroke tools, stroke utilities?
Do you use on daily basis, which you can't live without?
Oh, Christ.
Bloody hell, you could have given me some warning for the question.
Oh, gosh.
I can't live without.
It's not a trick question.
So, for example, we've had answers such as get-i-play web browsers, text evidence.
So, you know, wherever you use on your computer, what's the first thing you open, say,
when you turn your computer on?
Oh, I open up my desktop and open up my browser.
Chrome.
Ah, so web browser.
Yes.
Google Chrome, so you do a lot of web surfing.
Absolutely, yes.
Do you do much programming?
I do no programming apart from the updates that I do on the Lincoln lug page monthly.
Ah, so you run Lincoln lug?
I do run Lincoln lug, yes.
And what does that entail?
Running Lincoln lug.
No.
Would you like to elaborate?
Okay, so I do the monthly updates on the website.
I run the Google Plus page. I run the Twitter account.
So, getting the promotion out there ahead of the lug meetings to let people know when it's on,
what time, the location, and if we're having any special events like we are today,
which is our third birthday this month?
Congratulations.
So, just back to the original question.
So, you edit web pages.
What did you tell the user for that?
Uh, get it, get it.
Get it, or get it.
Whichever one floats you both.
Okay, thank you very much.
And finally, for the benefit of the, if any of the listeners of HPR wanted to find you online,
can you find you on Twitter, Facebook, or any of the various places?
Yeah, I am Boba Bex on Twitter, and I'm Rebecca Nubra on Facebook.
I'm Rebecca Nubra on Google Plus, or you can actually just Google my husband,
Philip Nubra, and you can find my links linked with him.
Okay, brilliant, thank you for the interview.
Thank you very much.
Good luck.
So, Lincoln lug, I think this is my, I've my sixth from my seventh interview of the night,
and I'm interviewing Aaron Scott.
Hello, Aaron.
So, you're a Lincoln lug member, you've been regular?
Yes.
Okay, good question.
Good answer.
So, um, some of the first question, that was not it.
This is it.
Um, what, um, was your first experience of the Linux?
Oh, played about with a Raspberry Pi.
It was what you call it.
The first thing that needs to start and learn Linux is another operating system.
Okay, that's a great answer.
I'm not having a Raspberry Pi brought into, into any of the interviews so far.
So, you know, it's always good to get the Raspberry Pi, you know, advertising out there.
So, thanks for that, Aaron.
So, um, that would be, uh, if the Raspberry Pi uses a version of Debian?
Yes.
That was one of the first distributions I've tried, yes.
So, by Ubuntu soon after, when I tried that on a PC.
Okay, brilliant.
So, what, uh, Linux distribution are you using at the moment?
Uh, Mint, Ubuntu, and the Debian on the Raspberry Pi's, as well as some of its more native ones like Python.
Okay, brilliant.
So, that's, uh, well, I lost count of how many distributions are known there.
So, if you had to choose one of them as your daily driver, say, for example, which one would it be?
Probably Mint, it seems to work on, uh, things out of the box.
Because I'd get through an awful lot of PCs playing about with things,
and that's the one that seemed to work first time.
Like I brilliant.
So, that's the wireless operating parts for connecting up to the internet.
Okay, so, I think that seems to be a running theme tonight.
People wanting a Linux distribution that just works out of the box with wireless support.
Yeah.
A great answer.
Um, what, um, when you're using Linux Mint, are you going for the, uh, cinema desktop,
or are you choosing mate, or Marta, or XFCE, or?
Uh, it depends for what it's been used for, you know, because some machines,
you're looking for something that is lightweight.
You know, if it's an older machine, some of them, you know, it doesn't particularly matter.
So, you look for something that looks a little bit more pretty and everything else,
and more what the person is used to.
Okay, so, sounds like you go for functionality over how pretty it looks.
Yeah.
Okay, good answer.
Um, there's no right or wrong answers in this, by the way.
So, the last question.
What, um, tools do you use on a regular basis?
You can't live without.
Now, I'm going to, uh, prefix that question we've stating.
I know Darren does a lot of hardware hacking.
So, and for that, he uses, um, he's not just a Linux owner guy.
He uses Windows as well and various operating systems.
So, he's probably going to come up with a tool that, or one or two tools,
which we may never have heard of.
Is that right?
Am I right in thinking that?
Oh, you've probably heard of them because you use them every day.
Uh, let's say the slider programs for the 3D printing.
They're, uh, what you call it, program that I'm using more and more,
as well as obviously the 3D design software, you know, from solid edge,
uh, to moment of inspiration to solid works.
And, uh, God wants to see.
There's a Linux program for controlling the CNCs that we also use quite a lot.
Oh, cool.
What's that called?
I'm trying to remember.
It's the initials.
Is it EMC?
Oh, I don't know.
Probably.
You'll see.
Yeah.
I mean, my guess will be useless.
I don't know nothing about that sort of thing.
I just, it's that one.
So, I'm sure it's EMC.
Okay, cool.
So, do you do much, uh, programming or editing or anything like that?
Uh, I don't get time to do a lot of that type of thing.
It's normally getting things working and, you know,
working out what's gone wrong.
You know, when you're playing about with the Adreno code and things like that,
that's probably the time that I get into the code most.
All right.
So, is that, um,
is the C language?
All right.
Yeah.
I think I've, um, I've played about with Arduino itself a bit.
So, it's, um, it's all good fun.
Um, I could brilliant.
That was it.
Um, just finally for the HGAR listeners, can they find you on Twitter or Facebook?
I'm afraid not.
I don't do the, um, the, uh, Facebook side of things or Twitter or anything like that.
Yeah, that's fine.
Not everybody does.
So, you're, um, basically what you're saying is you're, you like to be invisible, incognito.
No, they say most of the people that are coming to contact, you know,
get me email address and I find that's enough.
Okay, brilliant.
Well, thank you for taking part.
Darren, it's, um, it's been epic.
Cheers.
Okay.
So, I'm at Lincoln Log and I am interviewing...
Adrian Farrow.
And I, Adrian.
Thank you for taking part.
Um, I've got three simple questions for you tonight.
So, the first question is, what was your first experience over Linux?
Linux.
Oh, when I went into a shop and, uh, saw a Linux magazine.
And that peach or interest?
Okay, good answer.
That's, uh, sure.
The magazine vendors will find that interesting.
Okay, so second question.
What Linux distribution are you using at the moment?
What, um, desktop environment or window manager?
Uh, mainly, uh, Mint.
And I also use Nopix as a live operating system.
Okay, brilliant.
So, what, um, Mint does various different versions.
Which version, do you know which version is that you're using?
Is it the standard Cinnamon Desktop?
Yes, the Cinnamon Desktop I use, yeah.
Okay, so, um, that seems to be a fairly popular answer tonight.
I think we've got a few Linux Mint uses in our user groups.
And there must be something that's working for them.
It says it's the most widely used, uh, operating system.
One of the most widely used operating systems in the world.
Do you find it fairly easy to install in the operating?
Yeah.
And I prefer it to Ubuntu.
Because, um, I find that it's difficult to watch movies on Ubuntu.
Uh, whereas on Linux, it's already there.
On Mint, it's already there.
All right, so things like the video codecs and whatnot are already installed.
Whereas in Ubuntu, you have to download them separately.
Okay, it's the same with Linux, uh, nox for a live, uh, operating system.
It has everything already on, on the live disk.
So, again, you don't have to download anything.
Okay, so that sounds like it's fairly important that you want something that just works out of the box.
Yeah, and that's what, that's what's good about nox, I find, anyway.
Okay, brilliant.
Um, so the final question, um, what applications or tools do you use on a regular basis that you cannot live without?
Now, I know you're, um, you're into your karaoke and, uh, you've already said that you like watching films.
So, are there any particular tools that you associated with those, which you use on a regular basis?
Uh, yes, as I say, karaoke use.
And, uh, I use, um, the, uh, virtual DJ.
And, uh, and, uh, I use that on, uh, the, uh, my Windows 8.1.
Okay, that's cheating, but we'll let you off.
No, just kidding. We're not, we're not a, uh, we don't discriminate against Windows users at all.
Oh, well, I'm not, I'm not a preferable, preferably window, uh, Windows user.
I'm, uh, prefer to use nox, but there are some, uh, applications that you can't use on Linux.
Yeah, it's fair point.
Okay, so, um, for the, um, HPL listeners out there, can they find you on the internet?
Um, do you use Twitter or Facebook?
Yes, I use Facebook.
And, can I, can I, can I listen and find you on Facebook?
What, what's your Facebook handle?
Because it's just popping your own name, can I?
Well, I'm just on, uh, my email.
Fasins. Fasins.
Hotmail.co.uk
Okay, I might cut that one out, but that's probably a peg of take of that, Adrian.
Okay, thank you very much, Jim.
Okay, so I'm at Lincoln Lake, and I think this is 748th interview of the night,
and I'm interviewing...
Emma Martin.
Okay, Emma, so we're at Lincoln Lake.
What do you laugh for?
Okay, we're not going to start, we're just going to carry on, because this is good stuff.
So, what was your first introduction to Linux?
Um, when you moved in, so when Philip moved into the house, us.
Okay, it's good answer.
There's no, there's no trick questions here, Emma.
So, can you remember, have you used the Linux before?
Um...
No, I think I used Ubuntu, but I didn't like it, so I went back to Windows.
That's a good answer.
As in, have you used Linux before?
No, I think I've used Ubuntu.
Okay.
Um, I think some people might find that amusing.
Uh, second question.
What operating system are you using at the moment?
Uh, Windows 7.
Okay, and what applications...
This is the third question, by the way.
What applications or tools do you use on a daily basis, which you can't live without?
What do you mean, is it like...
Well, when you pick your computer up and you turn it on,
what do you use on a daily basis, which if it wasn't there tomorrow,
would you think, oh, that's not there anymore?
The internet and word.
The internet and word.
Okay, for the sake of the HPR listeners, can we just...
Mainly to explain what's going on here.
So, Emma, how old are you?
17.
Okay, so typical teenage girl.
Um, might get her to elaborate a bit more on the internet.
What, um, what parts of the internet, what websites,
web services do you use on a regular basis?
Google and Facebook.
And the internet programs, um, websites, I really use.
Okay, there's no trick questions. That's a good answer.
You spend a lot of time searching the internet on Google
and, um, socialising on Facebook.
Okay, um, the final question.
That's not really a question.
It's not, you know, in the sense of, it's not computer related.
Well, it kind of is.
If, um, for the HPR listeners, can they find you on Twitter or on Facebook?
Yes.
Help, help them out a bit.
What's your username or handle on Twitter?
Um,
Madman with a box.
Is that your display name or?
Yes, I can't remember what my Twitter name is, I think.
It's...
Is it something like Elm?
Yeah, Elm 97 or Emma Law 97.
Something along those lines.
Brilliant, thank you Emma.
Thank you.
And that concludes the interviews.
I hope you enjoyed this episode of HPR
and found it to be of some interest.
I've been Philip Newborer
and you've been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio or Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday on Deathly Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever considered recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the infonomicum computer club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution
at binref.com.
All binref projects are proudly sponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis,
today's show is released
under a creative comments,
attribution, share a like,
lead us our lives.
