Episode: 1483
Title: HPR1483: HPR Community News for March 2014
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1483/hpr1483.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 03:58:55

---

Peace.
Peace.
Hello everybody, my name is Cam Fallon, and you're listening to Hacker Public Radio
Community News for March 2014.
If you're new to the show, this is an opportunity for us to review some updates, ask to what's
been going on in the community that you might not know about.
Joining me to this evening is Dave, I'm living in Scotland, but I'm English Morris.
That's me, that's me.
I live from Nortie's Linux Fest.
Is it Nortie's Linux Fest?
Yes, it's the Nortie's GNU Linux Fest.
Mr. Pooh!
Oh, Tee!
Thanks, thanks Ken, I appreciate the intro.
And also here is NY Bill, we're on the same mic though, and it's very directional, but
I'll chip in here in there.
Super, super, super.
Hello Mr. Morris.
Hi NY Bill, how are you doing?
Doing good man.
Did you guys actually miss that when you were over?
I'll cast, yeah, I'll camp, I mean.
Oh yes, I'm the one I couldn't make.
Yeah, he was on the table with us.
I'm not sure what that means.
Okay, very good.
As we normally do though, we will start off going through some of the shows that were
on in the last month, giving a quick commentary rundown, and bringing you up to date on those.
The first one up, we didn't just, we normally introduced new hosts, but as there was no new
hosts this month, hello people, hello, those of you with guilty consciences who haven't
contributed to HPR before, now is an ideal time.
If you go to the contribute or a calendar page, you will see a lovely diagram that's like
a like a upturned saw wood saw that goes up and then down and then goes up and then slowly
down and up and slowly down and it's now very, very, very sloping down.
We could very much do with episodes in the next two weeks or so.
So new hosts, please get your finger out and start doing some recordings, even they
how I got into Linux show would be an excellent, excellent way to start.
I'd like to request a topic here, Ken, if you don't mind.
Prior to Dave, can you email this to me?
That's all right.
Secretary, I'd love to hear a show from anyone on like how much they like New Zealand.
That would be cool, wouldn't it?
Yeah, anyone at all, no one in particular, anyone in New Zealand would be fine.
Randomly down there about life, things they've noticed, that sort of thing, the ideal
time.
Yeah, yeah, especially if the person is new to New Zealand, that's, but no, no one in
particular.
Exactly.
Anyone at all, any of our listeners in New Zealand, come on down on the prices, right?
Actually, I have a topic as well, Dave, now that you're taking, typing, anyway, I want
to put a call out there to any ham radio enthusiasts on the network and I know there are.
I am interested in doing some study for my ham radio license and I've been listening
to lots of podcasts and lots of the podcasts, either I don't know the correct podcasts to
listen to in which case I'm requesting a show of ham radio podcasts, a rundown of them,
or I'm looking for some ham radio professional people to come on and we do a series where
I'm the noob and you can do, you can be my elmer and see if we can't figure out some
of the ham radio stuff because as I'm listening to the books, a lot of this will be very much
of interest tackers.
We had a request for a live show, or a live request here at the fest too.
Somebody requested a, how do I record a show for HPR like Tag Team where you have the
teacher student type scenario?
Okay, that'll be a good one.
I think Dave and I we've done one of those, the pearl thing where you were the teacher
obviously and I was the dumb student.
I think the answer is simply come on mumble and if you don't have a technical expert with
you then find one on the mailing list and if you are the technical expert and you're
looking for a noob then again come on the mailing list and then just try and agree
a time beforehand and come on the HPR mumble list.
Okay, but anyway no harm to add that into the list of shows.
So quickly gone through the episodes, 1456 was released on the third of March and it was
HPR community news for January 24th and an entire month later obviously.
Then we had bento with Zubuntu, Kylie, EPC, Mark, down stuff, Pogo plug for a more and
the only thing, only problem I have with this episode was stop, stop releasing all these
on the same episode, two hundreds of different little episodes for me.
But that was me with my admin hat on it was very interesting to sit down on just here
somebody chatting about various different topics.
Yeah, that's a whole week's worth of shows.
There you go, that's what I was thinking.
The only thing I would, I would, about his Pogo plug for thing, I would be reluctant to
advise Pogo plug to anyone due to the fact I bricked four of them so well not bricked
four of them but for the same price you can get a Raspberry Pi or there's plenty of other
little devices that you can, that are a lot easier, a lot more open and from not talking
from a RMS point of view I'm just mean a lot less hassle to get stuff on and you have
a more standard distro output.
I think I'd be willing a bit that Pogo plug is just as hesitant to recommend you.
Well, the feeling is mutual.
Anyways, free culture and open animation by CT and again I love CT's episodes, large
because of his Hitch Himal.
No, who doesn't love CT?
This was actually quite cool, he did a whole series of them up there and this was where
they wanted to put together a state of a collection of the various different open source movies
and stuff together and I think that's something as I had a main news case for myself.
Where I work we use test videos a lot and having this creative, common stuff that we can
use that for encoding is really helpful because you can just give the movies to somebody
and say here go check and make sure that works with those videos so it's really cool,
nice to have a larger selection of stuff like that.
Okay, the following day was 1459, deep geek, locational privacy and retro with retro check,
the lowly pager, fantastic, never thought of this old premise of the episode for those
that didn't hear it was that you obviously your phone is tracking you the whole time because
there's a transmission receive and you're contacting the tower.
So deep geek had the idea while go back to carrying a one way pager and the only thing
they know is that you're in a particular region and it's a broadcast mechanism without
a return path.
So therefore nobody can track you, but I don't know, I had a quick look here in the Netherlands
and it was very hard to get a service.
Yeah, I was going to say I'd be surprised to hear that anyone's still using one just
because I didn't think any services still existed.
And they do have one of my previous jobs this war by pagers because of the guarantee that
you were going to get the message sooner or later, so yeah, that makes sense.
But then again, I imagine that would be a two-way sort of thing, so hard to know.
But an interesting, interesting thought on the whole thing.
And did I have, looks like I've got a HTML bug in that episode as well, Dave, can you make
note?
14, 15, 15, 15, what's the problem?
There's missing a closing HTML, a slash a tag, 15, 15, right?
And for those of you who don't know, Dave has written a tool to check all this before
I posted, but I still haven't heard.
I still haven't done it yet.
Then we had 1460, the Road Warrior Command line combat life.
And this is nightwise again, doing SSH server on Ubuntu, IRSSI, Centinium, Alpine Connect
Boss, BotSync, Potty Secure Shell, and Nightwise.com.
Wait a minute, you're saying that the command line is powerful enough to use in the road?
I don't know if I can buy that.
Well, there you go.
You heard it here for first folks, but it is, it's also a very good list.
And items for the requested topic would be setting up, I mean, we have setting up SSH server.
We've done this a few of those.
Like a nice one on IRSSI, and like a nice one on setting up IMAP mail, and also setting
up something like Gmail via IMAP on a command line, command line mail program that you could
run and put it for requested topics.
Then we had Dave with the FostM key signing event, which was very, very interesting actually
from the point of view of how complex it is.
And perhaps they should have thought a little bit more about how they were going to do it.
Yes, they did accept all the criticisms from the community, and I'd been in touch with
the guy who organized it.
I pointed him to my episode slightly cheekily, I said, oh yeah, yeah, you've got a few things
wrong, by the way, so he got his own back.
But yeah, so he's going to do quite a lot of changes for next year's thing.
I think that's something that definitely needs to be done.
It would be nice to be able to go in for like half an hour or something, and just get
it done, but I imagine it's having a look at the CA server, there is a amount of time
that's required to give the level of trust that you need in order to do something like
that.
And it's a function of the number of people as well, which is where things get really
unwieldy.
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
I want to get the majority, the majority of the signatures you can.
It would be fun.
Yeah, I was just thinking it might be something to be doing around lunchtime so that people
got to eat, and it'll be doing that sort of thing at the same time.
Yeah, yeah, that's true, that's true.
It'd be quite nice to have somewhere to sit down, actually, to have a shopling around
in a circle, in a corridor, a bit uncomfortable, especially when you get a little bit longer
in the tooth.
Yeah, also when it's a bit dark and stuff as well, and special pleading on my top.
And the following day, we had a 1462 encryption and email with Thunderbird, and as you all
will doubt, have noticed, because I fixed it about 20 minutes ago, the series information
is fixed and back on the website, so this is in the Privacy and Security section.
And make a note, Dave, I want to talk about that later on in the episode about series
and stuff, if you wouldn't mind reminding me.
Yep, okay, we'll do.
This was a hookah about how to set up a encryption email with Thunderbird, which is actually one
I listened to, broke my own rule, because this was something that was in the queue that
I actually needed to do.
Yeah, I learned a few things from this, I have to say, but I knew how to use Thunderbird
and encryption, but covered it in a lot of depth, that was very good.
Yep.
The following day, 1463 code is a life-sucking abyss, also my story.
Now given this was Sigflop, and we all know her history of sending in interesting episodes,
I was hoping that this would be a positive one, and it turns out to be a very positive
one, and I'm very happy for Sigflop.
And yes, I think we've all been here at this to some level of another basically four
o'clock in the morning, and just one more book to fix.
Or for example, why won't this script run exactly, when it won't even give me a damn error.
In the next day, 1464, HPR Audio Book Club with is revived from the depth, from the depth
is Space Casey featuring the HPR Audio Book Club members, and featuring the author herself,
who was on the show.
Yeah, Cristiano Ellis, that was a lot of fun.
It went down very well, I must say.
Oh, thank you.
It's funny too, you say it rose from the dead, and I think the previous two before that
were the zombie ones.
Maybe this should have been another zombie one.
Yeah, very good, very good.
The one thing about the book club thing is, I think it's hitting with the international
aspect of HPR that the community uses, and that is, I think a lot of people, namely,
I would have liked to give some feedback onto this episode, because my feedback was that
I found it a very, after the last book club, I had listened to this book and reviewed it,
and ended up having a memory of the book as something just a horrible, horrible book
that I never wanted to listen to again.
And then when it came up again, I thought, okay, well, I better listen to it again for
this episode.
And as I was listening to it, the whole way through was going, hey, this is actually a
good book.
Why did I hate this book so much?
And then at the last chapter, that's when I realized why I hated the book so much at
the very end.
So if you have to listen to this episode, listen to the discussion about this, but I would
have liked to give that feedback, but it's not possible with the timing, it's simply
not possible with all our people.
So I wonder, would there be a way that we could do a two minutes, the people could send
in the reviews that you could add them to the show in between the preview and the beverage
thing?
We've done it before.
Well, so I invite everybody to do that.
The next book is going to be Sean Montaill's number one, South Coast, which I have read
and he's a brilliant book.
I do think I have to delay the recording of that show by about a week just because all
the NELF stuff is going to have me busy.
Absolutely, but you should put the put out a list, yes, I keep meaning to know, but what
I mean to say is put out a request for the people who cannot turn up to send in their
recordings by then because you want to at least a week or two to play them on the show.
Yeah, yeah, no, that's a good idea.
I appreciate it.
So cool.
All right, moving on.
The following day we had, Librofus, right, a brochure project and this is a hookah doing
the brochure for HPR and if you want to have a look at that, it's downloadable from the
website.
Dave, if you could make a note that I put this somewhere for actually on the website, there
needs to be a festival going to a festival link or something.
His Librofus series has made me a hero to my life again.
There is a while where she didn't think I could do much with computers anymore, but this
saved me.
Excellent, excellent.
Okay, I could go so many ways with that, but I'm not.
Yeah, feel free, Ken, it's probably true, whatever you're thinking.
Anyway, the following day we had you with you, Poké, with thoughts on GPSes.
Oh, yeah, that was an old recording actually that was recorded from last summer and I took
me a long time to edit it just to get off my ass and do it, which I'm a little embarrassed
about, but I hope you liked the episode.
Yes, I did, actually, I liked it very much and you had some comments about to the show
about from Ron, who owned an N900, and this was the one where you were talking about
the Tom Tom and that sort of thing.
Yes, sir.
And I also, Dave, I know you just keyed up, but we didn't hear anything you said.
Sorry, I think my sounds a little bit funny here.
I was just going to say thanks for the hints about the Tom Tom, because I've been thinking
about buying one of those, I think I'm not going to do it.
Yeah, oh, like I've said it before and I'll say it again, if you can find one used for
half price, go for it, don't pay full price.
While you have another episode in the mix and I want to just hold off my comments on this
on so the following day, I just, I did want to say one more thing about it, sorry.
Go ahead, of course, of course.
Yeah, the episode that David Whitman and I did together, he did all the recording and
editing, so I insisted that he got the credit for it.
But he wanted to do that on Osmond and it was, I wanted this one, this GPS one out before
the Osmond one, so he was the real motivation for me getting those two or three shows out.
Yeah, sometimes it's no harm to have somebody reminding you of new under pressure.
If anyone wants to do that, just, very simply just send an email to the mail list asking
for a particular day to be bugged about something and we'll happily do that.
Nice.
And you come on with how to win, find the difference games.
This is actually pretty cool, so I like a nice five minute show.
Yeah, it was a silly one.
I didn't know if people would be amused.
He had me like making my eyes out of focus while I'm driving, trying to practice it.
Yeah, someone, someone, I forget who it was now.
Someone had been jazz or made the comment on status net that he liked the show.
He said, I liked your HPR show and I said, which one I just did, too.
He said, the one that you had your eyes crossed and I'm thinking, well, no, it's actually,
I uncrashed my eyes to just the opposite is how you make those things work.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, that's pretty cool.
Did you get it to work?
Did it work for you?
For me, yeah, yeah, I do.
I have done that, yes.
And have you found one of those games and given it a try?
Nope.
Oh, all right, then.
Did your show notes lacked any reference to any games?
Well, there's one for Android called Find the Difference.
So I didn't want to name anything particular, but I figured if you did that search, it'd
come up at least that one, but yeah, if anyone tries this and it works, I'd love to hear
about it.
Go ahead and use the feedback system on the website, which, oh, I don't know if I said
it already, but also here today.
So when we made the suggestion that we should, can't ask your wife to record a little bit
that we can add to the outro that just says, you know, please leave feedback on the page
for the episode, because I think a lot of people don't know that we have a feedback system
at all.
Yeah, that's, yeah, I haven't been publicizing the feedback system largely because it is
a nightmare to administer and it actually logs every person who comes to the website
with their IP address, with their browser type, which is just a horrible, horrible piece
of code, which I'm going through today trying to.
So if anyone has any good suggestions for how we can migrate to a common system that's
simple to use and that respects people's privacy, then I'm open to suggestions on the mailing
list, of course.
I don't know about privacy, but a forum would take care of the rest of the parts, but that's
you know, another thing.
But as long as we do have the common system that we do have, could we put the link back
on the, the P in the, you know, Hacker Public Radio in the, in the website title, where
you could click on the P and see all the comments.
Yeah, sure.
Yes.
Email me a reminder, of course.
Sure.
I'll do that right now.
And also there was a disc, you asked about forums, but there is a over on bin rev, every
episode has a forum link.
So if we could, we could put that in there.
Okay.
You can discuss it over there, but it's, there's kind of no link, a quick and easy link
over to that.
Actually, that's something we could probably do.
I'll have a think about that, but you know, I don't know if people, people mentioned
Discuss before, that seems to be a nice one.
But yeah, whatever, whatever, I'm in the, I'm in the market for getting rid of this discourse
cannot discuss discourse and why they'll say, thanks, thanks to, okay, let's move on.
A whole lot of nothing, Chromebook, end of life, CentOS, WTF, non-mainstream, GNU, Linux
distros and more, by Bento, another one, Bento that you should have cut up into little
episodes and put them in.
And that's the only thing that's the only criticism I have with this topic.
I'm currently struggling with Chromebook myself, so I would, there may be an episode about
that later on.
The following day, we had community news for February and more on that and on and on.
And then we had one of my backup shows which were released into the main queue more on
that and the non called learning to read the time with CC clock.
Haven't had a chance to listen to this one yet, but I'm looking forward to it.
It needs to go ahead of the rest of my queue.
Nostal.
So then the next day, we had Encrypture stuff with Blowfish by Siegflop, nice little short
episode, filed it under Privacy and Security.
And again, I'm glad to be here and more from Siegflop.
And then we had to see prompt with a backup show released how we got into Linux, which
was kind of interesting, actually, always, always nice to hear.
And then Dave Morris with also an interesting discussion with Tom, who I only very briefly
met as a fast M. I feel really quite guilty about that, actually.
We're a busy guy, it's no problem.
Yeah, we'd we'd been trying to, I thought, wouldn't be great when we get back from
closing.
We have a little chat about our experiences and record it.
It took that a month or something before we got to it is just time and general failures
on my part.
So got there in the end.
Yeah, exactly.
It was very good, very good.
Then we had 1474 behind the curtain look at OSM and OSM automation, automated navigation
directions with Poké and David Whitman, who I hate it because I already have a episode
on my recorder that has not been edited about OSM Android and you went ahead and did
a far better show than I did.
So I hate you, Poké.
Oh, man, you should have put yours out first.
No, no, no, that this would be embarrassing.
You know, the thing, this is real kick in the pants, too, because that episode was not,
it was not live for an entire week before Osmond revved the whole you, well, a good portion
of the UI.
So we might have to do an update.
Yeah, no, let's say that is an absolutely brilliant piece of software and I can probably
say here what my episode was all about.
I was driving back in Ireland and so I had all the map downloaded on OSM Android and
was the for in OSM and was Osmond.
I always called it OSM Android and my head, but only Osmond and I had no clue, I hadn't
used it at all.
I didn't know anything about it because I was relying on Google maps and that was fine
around where we were, but then we started going in between the hills and stuff.
And suddenly, all I was hearing was recalculating direction and, you know, a cache for I left
the very detailed page into like a big zoomed out bitmap of huge roads where it had
been downloaded at the, it couldn't keep up with the, with where I was.
And then there was a roadblock and trying to contact the server, contact the server.
So I couldn't, it couldn't, I'd not knew where I was.
So then I opened up for Osmond and I went recalculating, boom, go this way, fine, probably
directly there.
So since then, I'm a big believer in this.
I've been a big advocate of offline computing since probably 1996 when I couldn't afford
to pay for dial-up service anymore and had to just rely on whatever I already had on
my computer desk and on CD.
So it's, I fell right in with Osmond.
And you know, people think that, yeah, that's just because, you know, you're out in the
sticks in, in Ireland and, you know, in a part of the country where you're going through
hills and valleys and there's no, no transmitters and stuff.
But every day, I travel to the most, you know, some of the most densely populated part
of the Netherlands and through the financial district to get to work.
And every time you approach there, you have zero coverage, zero coverage and half my
train journey is zero coverage.
And then there's a little bit of coverage and then we go through a, the train travels
from there around to a public, you know, national park type area or a, you know, nature reserve.
And of course, there's no coverage there either.
So you go from, they're not being enough transmitters to being loads and loads of transmitters
but because there's so much congestion you're not getting through.
So OSM and Osmond is really from mapping and navigation is just very useful.
Yeah, I need to probably submit a bug to them because with this rev, they changed the
routing algorithms and they're not as good as they were a week ago and I find that very
upsetting.
So I, I don't know what they are going to do but I'm very sad that they're not working
as well as they were but I did use it to get here today.
I used it, you know, I found the, the good parking lots around here, the free one, I put
them on the map so they're ready for just anybody to be able to find them and a couple of
people have already asked me, hey, where's the free parking for an elf today?
So I've been able to just, oh, hey, pull up Osmond, there it is.
Yeah, the cool thing about it is you really need to use the favourites because the street
intersections don't really work that well.
So I normally just go find for where I want to be and then put that in, you know, before
I leave the house and then you're good.
Yes, definitely.
If you're using Osmond on short notice, that's the way to do it.
If you've got more time, if your trip is in a month from now or more, so that there's
time for Osmond to rev its map data, you can put the building on there and put the street
number and then it pulls right up all the time but that does take some time for them to,
I've talked about all this already, sorry.
No, cool.
I happen to like it and enjoy this sort of topic.
So we're good.
The following day, we had Ahuka with his introduction to spreadsheet, so he moved
from word to calc and again, starts that's really nice history about what a spreadsheet
is and yet again, I'm surprised by a story which I thought I had a fairly good understanding
of and has been completely explained and I like Ahuka's way of doing stuff and I guarantee
you that there put this stuff on a DVD and print out a little brochure with some screenshots
of what he's talking about, basically they, his blog posts and he has, you know, something
that he could sell and people would buy.
Yeah, for sure.
And then for the last one for this review is 1477T6 Sega Genesis Music Driver, another
one by Sigplub and this was a brilliant interview, I have no, it's good to know that Sigplub
has some people that she can talk to on her own level because that gave me, that's for sure.
Have either of you guys had a look at the demo that she did the interview on a few months
ago, several months ago now, no, no, I still have to do that, it's the way they described
the thing was so amazing, I keep forgetting, it's on my to-do list but once it's on my
to-do list that usually gets filed behind other things, so I'm terrible at that.
Not a problem, send a mail to the mail list Dave, can you send a mail to the mail list
to remind Paul King to review that?
Nice.
It's delegation for you Ken, that's good.
So just go over the comments on some of these shows, the deep geek commented on the
HPR community news that their original set points were thought to be human body temperature
and then we had an ongoing reply from in relation to your episode with Jono and Sly, Sly, Sly.
Sly, Sly, Sly, Sly, Sly.
Sly, Sly, Sly, Sly.
Sgyld, Sly, Sly, Sly, Sly.
Sly, Sly, Sly, Sly, Sly, Sly, Sly, Sly, Sly, Sly, Sly, Sly, Sly.
basically have an ongoing discussion about who's rising to his wrong.
Well, okay, I'm not going to, I'm not going to do him the disservice of misquoting him
here, but he did leave a comment on there, and I'll paraphrase and then he'll say,
no, no, no.
Okay, please.
Yeah, because I was just trying to look it up.
Go ahead.
Yes, yes.
This is a bug.
If there's no, not a gooey way to do thing, do a thing that a user wants to do, I am of
the opinion that the advantage of Ubuntu being widely popular all around the world
are advantages that I want to see.
Much better hardware support, much better software support, no longer being a second-class
system in many things.
And the most people are not interested in using this CLI and teaching them to do so is
the wrong approach.
Emphasis is mine.
As you say, it is perfectly possible to win with free software, to love free software,
to be passionate, advocates, without caring that somebody else loves proprietary software,
but not everybody does.
And the people who castigate you make the environment so unpleasant that they're what drive you
out, it seems that the quote advocate open source quote model has become for some people
that quote chat ties, those who are insufficiently dedicated to the open source model quote model.
And hearing that all the time is very, very tiring.
It doesn't matter if there are a hundred nice people for every one nasty person because
you never get to hear from the nice people, just the nasty ones.
And there is no culture of nice people calling you out, calling out the nasty ones and stopping
them doing it because there is nice people looking insufficiently dedicated.
And so it becomes a target of the zealous IR2, to which you replied, shall I read it?
I can do this.
My reply was, Sil, I cannot disagree with you more.
At the time of this writing, and I didn't disagree with everything, I should have specified
here, but didn't, I didn't disagree with everything he said.
But at the time of this writing, HPR has almost 1,500 episodes.
Almost all of them are dedicated to advocating free and open source software, GNU Linux,
open standards, and or free culture, and almost all of them, I cannot think of any exceptions,
are hosted by nice people, being nice.
I'm familiar with the attitude that you're describing, but I think it is the exception
these days.
I'm somewhat of a late comeer to Linux and free software, 2007-ish, so maybe I'm not
an acceptable measuring stick, but I don't even remember a time when that attitude was
the rule.
Agreed.
So, there was an anonymous commenter here today who stated that the Arch Linux forum
may be what Sil is talking about.
Okay, I can quote him, it was x1101, he's saying I can quote him.
Okay, fair enough, but I personally haven't seen that, and I would also say that they,
when people point you to the command line, if you have somebody in your neighborhood who
is running Ubuntu, and there's somebody else who's running some other distro, and the
somebody running Ubuntu has a problem, and the other person is running another distro
and doesn't know how to do it via Ubuntu's specific way of doing it.
Oh, then they're wrong, because it should be the archway.
But listen, then I'm kidding, obviously, sorry, I'm not an arch user, I'm kidding.
The person running Fedora, for example, does not have a way to install will, or to install
not will, but to install their display manager, because it's not packaged or whatever, to
find out how to do it, do Ubuntu way, because the Ubuntu way is not the generic, everybody
else in Linux way is, if Ubuntu had installed all their tools and pushed them upstream to
all the distribution, all the desktop environments, so that they were standard on the desktop environments,
if Ubuntu had done more work on the free desktop standard, then there would be more chance
that the way that they're describing to do stuff would be available on all the distributions,
therefore allowing person who is running X distribution that is not Ubuntu to help the
person who is running Ubuntu, because that has not occurred, the only way that person
running a distribution that is not Ubuntu can help somebody who is running Ubuntu is
by doing it on the command line.
That is not being nasty, that is not being on user friendly, that is helping your neighbor.
That's a good point.
Okay, that's all I'll say about that.
Sorry, and we were talking about this today here at NELF.
This is when it came up that, again, that I thought that a forum would be really nice
to have.
A lot faster, because I think when did Stuart leave that comment, it was, geez, back in
early February maybe, and I think I didn't reply until April, because I just didn't know
it was there.
It doesn't get bumped.
It doesn't get moved to the top, whereas if it was a forum and each show had its own
forum entry, its own thread, that would have gotten bumped, and people would have had
the opportunity to comment on it and reply to that.
Yeah, there is an RSS feed for those comments, did you know that?
No, I didn't.
Okay, and go into the feed section, there's a live RSS feed, so you can get that information
out.
That's something we need to look at anyway, but there's also a delay, because everything
is moderated.
For every comment, one comment we get, we get about 10 spam comments as well, so I moderate
everything.
So there's a delay there as well.
But again, suggestions for how we can improve the commenting system would be a good thing.
Then we had a Claudio M was commenting on the Siegflux episode, and we had an all-comment
on your episode, Dave, actually, as it's no one, Chaskriven's Templar, Static HML Generator,
by what appears to be a somebody Steve Kemp, who seems to be involved in the project.
We had Delta Rake, given another heads-up to a good shout-out to Siegflux on her episode.
We had Ron talking to you about the N900, and we've already discussed that.
We had a, on the whole lot of nothing, Chromebook, End of Life, CentOS, Mainstream, and Extradistials
by Ben Top.
We had about...
I think I should beat Orbato, I don't think it's Ben, I don't think there's an end in
there.
Oh, sorry, Beto.
Sorry, apologies, you know, no new host this month, and I still end up butchering people's
names.
Anyway, wouldn't we be able to use if I didn't butcher somebody's name?
Anyway, Bedrock Linux, yes, the lead developer of Bedrock Linux was on about the Bedrock
Linux design, and basically wanted to point out that the Bedrock, while Bedrock uses
Changes with behind the scenes, is completely abstracted away.
So I have a read to those comments, David L. Winston commented on episode 1463, which
is, again, Siegflux code is life-sucking-a-base, also my story, and my, I have moment, I have
a problem, moment was 4am, shivering in the garage, thinking I really should go to bed
soon.
I have to work in a couple of hours, yes, I think we've all been there.
And then the discussion about the N900 from about you and adventure boy was commenting
on episode 1434, why I made in a free count Android, which we had on the 30th of January,
like Togeet, and he is also planning setting up his Nexus 7 in a similar way.
Valegdurnaald posted on 1469, which was the community news episode, that we could do,
we could get more people involved in the community news, and we'll be talking about that later.
He also commented on a Libra office brochure project, giving a shout out to Aruka, of
course.
And then Jonas commented on 1479, asking Siegflux some questions about Blowfish, and she replied.
And then you were going to the commons to the OSILAR 3, which we'll talk about in a while,
and then we had Poké, yes, making the comment about the update, so that's basically the
comments.
We have to wait to talk about that one, huh?
Yeah, that's next month.
Okay, did anybody ever get back with that poor fellow who got tricked?
I feel bad about it now.
No, no, he tweaked this as well, he tweaked this as well.
I just don't think he had enough coffee.
I got fooled by an April Fool's this year, too.
Anybody else get one?
No.
We're getting comments in the room.
Somebody else got...
Okay, so someone else got tricked this April.
I got one in a podcast where they replaced one of the hosts and filled in a new guy, and
I totally believed it.
Was very sad, too.
Did you guys hear what she said?
No.
Sorry, there's a young lady here from HP, and when I asked that, she's across the room,
she piped up that she logged into IRC on Monday, and somebody asked her, did you hear
they're relicensing the Linux kernel under GPLV3, and she was pretty stunned.
Yeah, that's pretty...
So, yes, sorry, the community news if we can.
Sorry, sorry, sorry, the community news, that's what we're doing.
Sorry, the mailing list, if we can.
Yeah, Sue.
Well, a little bit of community news on that note while you're looking that up, is the
hacker public radio community-owned Zoom H1 showed up at my house, I think last week or
the week before, doing interviews with it today, so that is now part of the official
HPR conference kit.
Sorry, the which?
Zoom H1 handheld stereo recorder.
That is very nice.
Very nice.
How do we manage to afford that?
Mostly, David Whitman, a little bit of 5150, and a little bit of myself, I think.
Oh, well done.
Thanks, guys.
Big shots.
That is a really, I have a Zoom H2, which I'm using right now, and anything that the
reason my voice sounds as good as it does is because of this, it really works very well.
Yeah, I was just playing around with it earlier this week, and just recording as I walked
around the house and played back, and was experimenting with the stereo effect, and
the noise, the sound quality and reproduction and the stereo effect is so good that when
you listen to it, played back, it's uncanny.
You almost get vertigo or deja vu from it.
It's really, really stunning.
And if you want to play with this Zoom H1 at no cost to you, all you have to do is be
the conference guy in your area, or conference lady, and get the HPR conference kit.
It doesn't take a lot.
All you need is people are more than happy to put on tables, and you just surround except
for Fostem, which is a completely different level of commitment to learning.
So let's quickly go through some of the stuff that was in the mailing list, very busy
month, actually, on the mailing list.
It kind of comes and goes like that.
Months does nothing, and then some months does massive, massive discussions.
This month happened to be a massive discussion month.
Oops, and it centred around.
We had basically three topics for discussion during the last community news.
The first thing that we discussed was releasing the backup shows.
We do have, if you go to the HPR website, one second, one second.
Yeah, if you go to the HPR website, then at the bottom you see a list of backup shows
that we have, and we're now calling these emergency shows.
So the discussion was that there was some shows in there, for example, your best eggs in
the world has been in there nearly two years now, so nearly three years ago.
The discussion was should we release them or what should we do?
What is the backup show?
Go ahead.
I think I've said it before, and I don't feel super strongly about it, but I like
having the backup queue.
I like having shows in there in case we run low.
And I don't mind if someone, if we want to put a limit on the number of shows in the
queue, and when someone submits a new one, then the oldest in that queue gets filtered
into the regular queue.
Something like that is fine with me, but I don't feel so strongly that I'm willing
to argue about it if someone doesn't like the backup queue and doesn't want it there.
So I kind of tend to remain silent on such topics.
So that was one, your side of the argument, my side of the argument was that the backup
shows are used as a crutch to people.
That's when the CDQ list goes down, they will go, oh, it's fine, I still have some time
to prepare a show and send it in, and invariably people forget the urgency, and then it's left
to some old regulars to put in shows.
And if we look at the number of shows that there have been for the last few months, it's
been basically the old regulars with a few exceptions.
So people stop having us fill in shows and send them more shows.
But the discussion went to and fro, I think, Dave, do you want to give a summary of what
happened in the end?
Not sure, I remember, and you probably remember it better than I did.
Okay.
It's a long time ago.
So the discussions went, I think some people wanted to, we're okay with the idea of releasing
the shows.
Basically, I was also saying that some of the shows were going to stay like, for example,
what's on my podcast player?
A lot of the shows, a lot of the stuff that's on your podcast player will not be as relevant
in two years' time.
And to contract that, Tlatu says, you have the stuff that he's putting in as timeless,
and then, therefore, should be only used in an emergency, which is good because Tlatu
has an opinion as well.
He's been the person who's been putting out shows as well when we've been low.
So he also knows what it's like to not have a show.
So essentially, what we kind of agreed, I think, is that the emergency show is, the emergency
queue is intended only to be in use when there is still a gap in the 24 hours prior to release.
So we will use that, those shows, if there is a slot available, not filled within 24 hours
of release.
So, for example, on a Monday, that they wednesday slot, isn't available or they are something
like that.
So I'll just give you the exact text from the contribute page.
The emergency queue.
The emergency queue is intended only to be used in cases where there is still a gap in
the schedule, 24 hours prior to release.
The shows will be by their very nature, sorry again, the shows will, by their very nature,
need to be timeless, i.e. your topic should still be relevant in four years or more.
People will be able to hear the show on the website, but they will not be included in
any feeds until release.
Please begin all shows with text similar to, I'm talking about emergency shows here.
This is an emergency show.
If you are hearing this, then HPR needs shows ASA plea.
Please consider a contribution show, email admin at hackapublicradio.org for more information.
So if you can put that at the beginning, that would be great.
Continuing on, we expect that we need at least 10 shows in the emergency queue in order
to give people time to record and submit shows.
Remember that once all the emergency shows have been used up and there are no more shows
in the queue, HPR as a project will stop.
Comments?
Bill keeps getting up and walking away, but before he left, I'm warning you Bill, am I?
No, no, I'm just walking around talking to people.
I always thought that was like a first and first out 10 show queues, so I.
Yes, but it was, that's what I call it.
That's what I thought as well, but sentiment on the list seemed to change that.
So that is why we're contacted each of the hosts with a show in that queue and got clarification
from them exactly what it was they wanted to happen with their shows.
And now anybody in that queue is, is there for the very reason that they wanted their
show?
Okay.
Gotcha.
And just one other thing, hold on.
When you said that the show should include the text there, is that going to be like a text
to speech and we're going to add that audio to the six shows that are in that queue?
No, I think I'll leave the six shows.
I don't know, might add that to the, I had intended whoever's recording the show seen as
you do in a foreign emergency show, you put that in.
So might edit those shows and add it to them.
So the only person who hasn't come back to me with a date that they wanted their show
released on was Jezra, how I use Linux.
And by the way, if it wasn't for all these shows been released this month, we wouldn't,
we would have already ran out of shows, by the way.
Just saying folks, just saying.
And I still need to make it so that those shows will be playable from the website, but
I might get to that tomorrow, perhaps.
Cool.
Bruce Patterson's just come in.
The room wants to say hi to you guys.
If you don't mind.
Here, it's pushed to talk, Bruce.
Hit alt and shift for you.
Hey, Can, what's going on?
Not too bad.
How are you?
Long time no here.
I'm doing okay.
It's taking me a little while to master the keys here.
I know.
I'm been struggling with that myself.
So when are we going to hear you back on the airwaves?
I'm semi-retired, actually.
I decided that, you know, like anything else, once something turns into a job, it doesn't
become really fun anymore.
So I think it'll be a little while before I come back.
Yes, you see, what you need to do is just farm off all these jobs to other people.
But I guess you did that, actually.
You're correct about that.
In fact, I've been running around Cambridge today, getting pictures of awful, Frank Geary
designs.
Okay, cool.
Thanks.
Well, if you ever want to come on and do a show, there's always a slot available here for
you.
No pressure.
One show a year.
Anybody could do that?
You know, it's really funny you say that because one of the things I was thinking about
is that at the very minimum, you're right, actually could do something like that.
Because now, if anything, that's kind of what I have now is a little more time.
Yep.
It's easy, easy, lemon, squeezy.
And besides, I think if anything, one of the things I want to plug on top of you find folks
actually, you know, showing up at our Linux Fest every year, I mean, a big round of
thanks to, you know, Pokey and NY Bill and you and for all of the, you know, support
that.
I mean, you guys were here at the very beginning, even before I was.
So, you know, a huge thanks, I mean, it's, it's support like this that actually makes
everything go well.
This is actually what I consider sort of the best of the community, if you will.
Oh, thanks very much.
They're good guys.
I must say.
I always enjoy getting these episodes in because there's no way I can attend much though
I'd like to.
I, sorry, can I forgot to key up?
You missed that.
I said, you're the poll.com.
Yeah.
He said, no, it's security weekly.
Is poll there?
Yes, he is.
Drag him over.
Okay.
Hold on one second.
Can you want to say hi?
Yeah.
Hello, computer.
Hello, Paul.
Paul, I've been this.
Hello.
Hi, this is Ken from the Netherlands or Ireland, depending on your point of view.
Hi, Ken.
How are you?
I've been hearing your pimping that you're going to this Fest for ages on your, what do we
call them now?
Paul Security Weekly?
Paul Security Weekly.
That's right.
So, how is life?
Life is good.
We've moved into a studio in Rhode Island, so our broadcasts are larger than life now,
and we're doing full internet and radio production in our studio.
It's been a lot of fun.
Have you given your talk yet?
I'll be giving my talk in about a half an hour or so.
Okay, very good.
Two things.
I've done an episode on how to give up smoking, so if you ever want to refer to that,
you can.
Okay, yeah, no thanks, but thanks for offering.
You also do Stogie Geeks as well, so yeah, that chance there.
Yeah, the Stogie Geeks show is a lot of fun.
You know, have that show be in studio and be in a place where you can actually have a
cigar and do a show is pretty epic.
We actually had all four members of the Stogie Geeks in studio as well as in North Carolina,
but he made the trip up, so that was a very interesting and entertaining episode.
Cool stuff.
Well, good luck with your talk.
Thank you very much.
Security weekly.
Say it with me now.
Security weekly.
Thank you.
Here's a weekly.
Yes, it's going to take me a while to get that into my brain.
I have to say.
Anyone else over there?
I'm sorry, Ken.
Is there anyone else wants to talk?
Or shall I continue on with the mailing list?
Yeah, X-1101's on his way over.
Oh, cool.
And, and Ken, if you could, could you please email me Richard Quirin's email address,
because Paul's asking about the design of our, our banner and that was him, I believe.
Oh, yes.
You're going to have to email me to remind me about that, of course.
Yeah, okay.
Hello, everyone.
This is X-1101.
How's it going?
X-1101, go ahead over.
What's happening over there?
What have you been doing?
I made a trip down, about a three hour trip down to spend the day at the Hacker Public Radio
table.
So you're a hacker, you're a hacker public radio listener then, would you be?
Yeah, for about nine, ten months now.
Very good.
So then.
And so I figured I owed you a show.
And so I've made one today.
Excellent.
I was going there.
I was going there.
So what's your show on?
The obligatory, how I got into Linux.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
I do, do like those.
I just realized we're going through the, I wanted to clean up the website.
I wanted to clean up the number of series and there's definitely a lot more how I got
into Linux shows than assigned that.
So I would appreciate anybody listening who's got some time on their hands to help us clean
out the episodes to put the shows in the right episodes, so to be fresh.
So you've been on the booth the whole time.
You haven't been in town.
You talk to them.
Not yet.
I am planning on going to Paul's talk, but I haven't been any other talks.
I'm sitting at the table with the, with the gang here and how have you been finding
it?
It's everything I thought it would be and more.
Yeah, cool.
That is a nice banner, as has to be said.
Yeah, it's wicked nice.
That banner is awesome.
Still smell, still has that new vinyl smell.
Yeah, the only thing is people were asking me about, you know, are you a radio show?
So I would possibly, if I was doing it again, just put a community driven internet radio.
Yeah, actually, that works, internet radio.
That's actually that works very well.
So if you don't mind, I'll continue on with the mailing list right on.
We had someone asking about the mobile server and that was March.
Yes.
Yeah, Sigflop was asking about the mobile server and details for that are on the contribute
page.
David Whitman was talking about the, yeah, the backup shows and that sort of thing.
Yeah, he also requested that we reserve a slot for the 8th of July and obviously nobody
had a problem with that.
Then I posted the question, how useful the community news show was.
Very.
And, yeah, unfortunately, everybody seemed to think very, so we'll continue doing it.
But if people have suggestions for us, please send them along, this one's going to be
very long.
Also, if you like the community news show, you join it every once in a while.
You don't have to be here every month, but, you know, help out.
Yes, exactly.
And if you are in a time zone or it's a time that doesn't suit you, then, then, you know,
you can switch the times.
I don't need to be on it every month, not at all, or if you wish, you can send in your
contribution, be email, and also send us a recording, which we can include in if you want
that sort of thing.
If you want to pimp something that's coming up, send that in.
This is the show that I'd like to get all that stuff on.
If you have any comments or, you know, you can send in a recording and we'll edit in
whatever is in that recording happens there, all right, I'm actually shutting down now.
So, we've ever finished this thing off.
But if you have any suggestions for how we can improve the community news or what we
should do with the community news, give us a shout out.
Then we had a loss about, actually, that was the rest is referring to more or less April.
So that's pretty much it from the mailing list this month.
Yeah, next month's new show is going to be fun, April's been fun so far.
There was one other thing, which was, yeah, should we fix a slot for the community news
and that, that I think has been, yes, as well, so let's do that.
So yeah, if anyone also has some ideas on how we can improve things, you know, feel free
to give us a shout out.
That is the point you are the community.
Yeah, that's a really good point that sometimes I think might not be made enough is that you,
the listener, are the community and we, the community, are the producers of HPR.
So if you're listening, you're involved and we just need you to be involved a little
more or just slightly differently and, you know, help to produce the content.
Yeah, exactly.
And it's you over there.
And it's not, you know, there's no guarantee I'm going to jump on.
I don't jump on everybody like I do, like I did poor Dave.
So don't worry about that.
But even something like feedback on whether people listen to me and you know, new show,
that is very helpful.
And you know what the most helpful thing is to contact the people who have done the shows
and just say, hey, I like your show because there is no bigger buzz you can get and it
just makes, cheers you up.
It cheers you up.
No end.
Just getting an email and email box from somebody across the other side of the world going,
hey, thanks very much for that episode.
Absolutely.
Well, Poké, anything else that you want to say?
No, I think I'm good.
Just North East Linux Fest is a lot of fun.
Conferences are a lot of fun.
Hosts in the HPR table is a lot of fun and you should give it a try.
Want to know what East Linux Fest next to you?
Yes, I think it will.
I think it will.
Somebody wants to send me the money.
I actually don't because it's the better uses for the money than sending my big fat
arse over across to the America.
Can you should build a money making machine out of a Raspberry Pi that will just, you know,
generate pennies for a while until you get it?
Yeah, Bitcoin.
We need a can coin.
We'll generate those.
Yeah, I'm right on that.
Okay, guys, if there's nothing else, Dave, are you still around?
I'm still here.
Can you want to mention something about series?
You said, oh, yeah, I do kind of mentioned this.
I'd like the series to be cleaned up.
It's an absolute mess.
If you look on the series page, there's basically loads of series with one episode in
it.
And then there are other shows that should be in particular series like the how I got
into Linux series and they're not there.
If there's somebody who has a brain for that sort of thing, go to the HPR website.
And go to the complete episode guide.
And then on another window, go to the episode, you know, the mini series page and do a little
bit of matching and just send me an email going, this episode should be in this series.
This series should be gone.
This should be changed to this.
The spelling is wrong and any sorts of corrections at all on the series that would really help
because it's a mess.
You have just reminded me, Ken, another thing that we sort of need for the conference
kit is, and I do not remember how we got the QR code books printed out, but the latest
show in the QR code book that we send around to the conferences is like 700 something.
So we're missing about half the shows.
So that's available on the, that's a PHP page that's available on the website.
So you're dropping an email about that, what you actually want with that.
Okay.
And also the book, the booklet that a hooker did, if somebody wants to give that some
love and attention, maybe some stats and stuff in there will be handy because we do have
a stats page that could be integrated into that in some way.
Just make that a PDF that you could go to forward slash something or other and download
the latest PDF with all the stats and the number of hours and that sort of thing, number
of hosts.
Yeah.
And number of downloads, if we could have that, you know, like our average downloads handy
for conference time because people always ask.
Yeah.
So there's a complete zip file report.tgz on the website.
I haven't run it in a while.
I'll update it now for this episode.
Yeah.
That'd be cool.
Not that it's too much use now, but for the next one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
I'm good.
We know I'm having like a checklist as well for going to the shows.
I know I kind of have it in my head while I need to bring, but it's kind of useful to
have a checklist.
And if there's always people who can print off stickers and stuff that would be cool
and mugs with my face in it, heart, heart, heart, heart.
Okay.
If you don't have a drinking problem now, you will.
Okay.
Guys, unless there's anything else, I think we'll call it a day.
Okay.
See you later.
All right.
Goodbye, everybody.
And remember, it's now traditional to sing the free song.
I'm not singing goodbye, everybody.
Join us now and share the soul where you'll be free hackers, you'll be free.
I can hear you dancing.
If you didn't dance, we could sing.
Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicum Computer
Club.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Binary Revolution at BinRef.com.
All BinRef projects are crowd-responsive by Linner Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinnerPages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments, attribution,
share a line, read out our license.
