Episode: 1211
Title: HPR1211: NELF Wrapup
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1211/hpr1211.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 21:45:23

---

Hello Hacker Public Radio, I'm John Fennato, I'm one of the many co-hosts for this episode.
We are currently in Cambridge, Massachusetts, it's 2013, and it is March 17th.
That means that NELF has just ended, and we're here to talk about it.
We have Pokey, Hello, we have Cody Cooper, Hello, Russ winner, Hello, the Bruce Patterson,
Ola, Steve McLaughlin in the door-to-door geek, and we also have Little Pokey, Jacob.
He actually, he was, he likes mad dog and awful lot, he wants to be bad wolf.
Bad wolf, that's official now, it's gonna be in the ether, so bad wolf it is, all right?
All I gotta say is you guys, eventually have to have your own 80s buddy cop drama.
Mad dog and bad wolf, that's my taste.
I think it's just, I think it's, he's my son, it's my responsibility to teach him things,
and this is the gentlest way that I can teach him that nothing can be erased from the internet.
That's right.
So I guess I'll start off, give the comments as you go.
Me, myself, I thought overall it was a great success, there were a little issues in the background,
and no one was really aware of, but everything went well, there was a great turnout,
the sponsors were happy, which was a good thing.
A lot of great talks, we had Ted Chow from the, he maintains the EXT 4 filing system,
we had John Maddog Hall, we had John Sullivan, the executive director from the FSF,
we had Matt Lee, formerly of the FSF, we had Thomas Gideon, we had lots of people,
you miss a lot of great talks, but Bruce has four DVDs in his hand,
not at this very moment, but within the next 24 to 36 hours, there will be some audio already up.
That's right, so I guess we'll kind of go around the Horn toity,
what were some of the things you've taken away from, from NELF?
Wow, so, so much.
First of all, the hospitality as far as everybody involved with the fest has been great.
I will say that any, any hiccups, much like Jonathan addressed that did happen,
so we're corrected immediately, mostly I would say, on the part of Bruce's Madison's calm demeanor.
Yes, he, it's like he had a magic button in his pocket and he just clicked it and everything was fine again,
so that was good.
Yeah, the food, the beer, all the beer, all the beers have been parked taking it right now.
Yeah, yeah, thanks for us, winter brought some home brews, thank you very much, Russ.
I don't think we mentioned you were on a Patrick's Day, right?
They did say Patrick's Day.
Yes, so we're picking some style in Guinness tradition.
To Russ.
To Russ.
To Russ, to Russ.
Here here.
Very, very much.
Little bogey.
How do you like this?
Have you sold it so much?
So much.
That was a bad old bagel.
That was a bad old music store.
Now, don't open it.
Yes, for the record beer, not contributing to the liquidity of a minor.
Why the hell?
Yeah, actually we are, we're just not giving any alcohol.
So yeah, let's go here.
I mean, I'll have more to contribute later, but I gotta say, I'm going to thank you to all
the fans that actually came up and talked to me at the, at the, at the fest.
All one of you?
No, no, no, no.
There were quite a few, and it's always very good to meet the people that listen to our shows,
and I requested that if you were at the fest to come up and talk to me,
like I say, I had at least 10 to 15 people.
So thank you for not only supporting the fest, but helping me put a name to the face
as far as who is benefiting from the content that we put out.
There was a big, big honor.
Tell me about your first health, Harvard University.
How is everything for you?
Well, it was awesome.
I came in Friday night.
I had a great time here, and then Saturday.
I think, you know, it was your first time at Harvard University.
So there were some hiccups, but overall, I think things went pretty smoothly.
The lineups, those speakers were great.
Like Cody mentioned, listeners coming up to say hi was just awesome experience.
I really enjoy talking, like to marry from Google.
I gave her a heck of a Google reader.
I think a lot of people did.
A guy from HP and Red Hat Fedora, they were great.
And some of the talks I sat in, I did sat in Oracle.
My sequel, talk that was really good.
As you mentioned, Ted Soes, talk on the ET4 file system.
I caught part of a collatuse talk.
It was really good.
This town is great.
So it was overall a great experience.
I'm sure I'll chime in a few more times before this episode's over.
You went a little tip, I like to throw in about HP.
I was talking on today, and I thought this was really cool.
And one thing I never even knew, they offer HPCloud.com,
which is like their version of Amazon, which I never knew existed.
But apparently, they do a lot of development with OpenStack,
and stay very, very close to the source code.
And they make everything available that they run HPCloud.com with,
is freely available to download and implement yourself.
They're the third highest contributor to OpenStack.
So I thought that was pretty cool.
Well, I would say I'm happy to hear you say the word cloud twice.
Yeah, there you go.
You know I've had enough beers now.
I thought you had to say cloudy if you were going to say cloudy.
But actually, one thing I want to throw in about HP as well,
one of the great things is they sent us laptops for the event
where you can find a lot really.
And more importantly, one of the great things about it is
I installed Fedora 18 on all of them.
And it's funny, because for whatever
all of the bad follow we've heard about Fedora 18 in general
had no issue with this.
More importantly though, we've heard about issues with machines
that had windows on it running into the UEFI issue.
Not at all a problem.
Not at all.
Yeah, from start to finish, wasn't bothered once by any of this.
And I got the Fedora install in under maybe 20 minutes.
It's really hard to use.
Yes, good news to HP, I didn't realize that.
Yeah, they were fantastic supporters.
Were the laptops loaders or does the
Yeah, unfortunately, I think they were alone.
So at first I was like, they did the same thing about us
in the back zone.
But then I went closer at the subject line
and I said, like, loan, and that was a bunch of numbers.
I was like, oh, me.
What I like about HP, I get a chime in,
you're talking about HP, they had a blade server just hanging out
there and they had it all pulled out for me to look at.
And I'll tell you, when that guy went into the talks,
watch the talks, and left the booth on, man.
All those little half-terabyte say to drives an F8.
Everybody looked at them like it was a candy dish.
Yeah, I felt bad for them because their shipping department
clearly wasn't on the same page.
They were because half of the server display showed up.
The other half is actually in a locked office.
It's being held hostage.
Yeah, and I'll say, I helped with those HPs getting them set up.
If people out there has not touched and felt business class HP products,
this is nothing like the stuff you see in Best Buy.
Like the $500 job.
Right, right.
This was an extremely solid laptop.
Very adorable it felt like.
Yeah.
And I was amazed at how smooth everything
moved up and quick.
Oh, yeah.
And one of them turns out it wasn't plugged in for over three hours.
It was recording the talk.
Yeah, and I went to like close everything and shut down.
And I said to the guy, can you please unplug this?
He said, and he didn't even plugged in.
Oh, that's the battery guy.
Yeah, those were the HP Elite books,
which are their enterprise level laptops.
And I was speaking to the rep about it.
And whether this is true or not, I had no reason to doubt it.
But he said he actually purchased them for his own family.
And because the first time I held it,
I was setting a mumble on one of them.
And I just kind of took a couple of minutes for myself,
closes it, like held it, looked at it,
and they kind of, you know, tested out the keys.
And it reminded me of some mid and high level,
like Lenovo builds.
Yeah.
This is something, you know, very, very solid.
I've spoken about it before.
Like you could use a ThinkPad to, like,
beat a Cougar to death.
Mm-hmm.
Not the way you force that.
No, no, no.
In self-defense.
Not a ThinkPad Edge.
Yeah, there you go.
Yeah, no, no.
It's a great laptop.
It don't go swinging it in.
No, no, no, no, no.
Well, and his kit was to not buy them new,
buy them refurbished from HP.
Because they have quite a few deals on them.
It's very good deals, yeah.
Yes.
But yeah, it changed my perception of build quality for HP, for sure.
Yeah.
Bruce, do you have anything you want to do?
Yeah, you weren't nearly done.
Yeah, we broke through the HP.
Oh, no.
Oh, absolutely.
Wait, wait, Bruce, were you even at the event?
The biggest, actually, the biggest disappointment for me
about this event was
that Paris Hilton didn't show up.
Yeah, right?
You can do that.
I was lost.
D-plus.
And she had made a comment the other day
about, you know, do you like my puppy?
And I responded, I would love it if you
chose the Northeast Linux press.
No, it doesn't.
Actually, you're in a Kobe Bryant, too.
I hit up everybody, you know.
We just didn't Kathy, although it's not them anymore.
But anyway, no, actually, it's funny.
We actually reached out to a lot of folks this year.
I would still like to have seen a lot more local folks
at the event.
I mean, that's usually one of the tough things.
And this is actually what I spoke to Mary
from Google about as well, because they
run a lot of events.
And the toughest cell is getting kids.
And I think that that's really.
And we're talking about anything from junior high up
even college level, because the idea of this
is that we want to show people there's
more than just simply Windows and Macs.
I mean, these kids have grown up in homes
with around electronics.
But I'm curious how many of them actually
realize that Linux is a really good choice.
So we'll just keep hammering it
until we come up with the magic answer.
Speaking of missing elements, I
spent the first night crying in my hotel room,
because the lamp party did not come to fruition.
Yeah, that was a last minute that literally
will be before.
They're like, yeah, we're not going to come.
We can't make it.
And I was like, oh.
So I think we're going to look into definitely doing it
next year, but we might try and find people within this area
to actually count on and do it.
So that's high up on the list to get that done.
Now, in terms of some of the speakers that we had,
this may have been actually some of the best line of I've
seen.
Yeah, and Matthew Garrett, he talked about secure boot.
We had Wendy Selcer talk about copyright issues.
Again, John Selber from the FSF mad dog.
I mean, well, actually, the key speak at the talk,
I'm going to actually try and push out first was actually
the one by Andrew Lumin of the tour pro.
Oh, yeah, because I heard about five, 10 minutes of it
as I was just testing the audio for.
It's going to be a fantastic talk.
Well, I think it would be hard to end all those flat
files.
Oh, wait.
We're going to say phongy.
Well, I was just going to say, if I get jump in your talk
with the speakers, I only heard one talk, and actually in three
Northeast lineage fest, because I've only heard one talk.
So this is the first one I've been to a talk.
So as far as the talks go, I only know what people told me
who attended the talks or people who gave the talks.
And the people who attended the talks, I loved them.
And the one that I went to, I loved.
And Bad Wolf went and saw Clot 2's talk with me.
What do you think, Clot 2's talk?
I thought Clot 2's talk was really good.
It was about, it was on Git.
I didn't really pay attention to most of it.
Well, there's a reason for that.
Because my mom was texting me about a project that I had to do,
and I already had it settled out when I was going to do it.
So I don't know, I just didn't pay attention to most of it.
Well, give me your number, I'll call you.
Yeah, we'll take care of that.
We sat together, and I took every opportunity
as he was going through it.
Clot 2 doesn't do slides.
He does, I wish I ever been in the neighborhood.
A lot of presentation.
Yeah, he does a lot of presentation.
He's using his desk, he's flipping desktops around,
doing graphics, and everything.
And when he's on the command line doing commands,
I was able to explain to Jacob, OK, that's Cp,
that's the Cp command, that's part tells it where it's coming,
from that part tells it where it's going, where it's going.
OK, now he's done the MV command that's moved,
but it also changes the name, and so on.
So he didn't get nothing out of it, he didn't get something.
Wait, wait, wait, Clot 2 doesn't do slides.
Why did somebody tell me not to look at the screen?
We were trying to point where we were ignoring us.
So yeah, so that talk was great.
And everybody seemed to love all the talks.
But when I talked to some of the presenters,
as much fun as they had here and with the people,
they all seemed to be under the impression
that a little more could have been done to have gotten their bios
correct, to have contacted them ahead of time.
And a lot of the people were talking about,
having the description of the talks in one pamphlet
and the schedule and another, but without the subject,
because it's just the name, that seemed
to create some real problems, some real confusion with people.
So I think it's something that, if we're
going to have such great speakers and expect them to come back,
that's what they said needed to be worked on in order
to treat them right.
Yeah, well, I met an email in November asking for my bio,
and I saw it went to at least 20 people.
And I quickly responded with all the requested information.
And that's actually the most important thing
that has to be made right up front.
Door was maybe the only person that actually responded
because we've got a lot of folks who waited
very last moment.
I would say we had an information.
I think there was communication in both directions.
Needs a little work.
And I think, and I don't mean this in a bad way.
I mean, in a good way.
This is the conference's third year.
And it's a good problem to have when you outgrow the volunteers
that you had.
So I talked to a lot of people.
And a lot of people feel it's everybody
I talked to had the same two thoughts.
Yes, it's time for a committee.
Yes, I went in on it.
We have a lot of people who said,
want to help out and want to be a committee.
And I already got John.
I cornered him.
When John Hall, he agreed to chair the wisdom committee.
All right.
To be somewhat of an advisor, and to help out.
And he gave us some pointers that don't need to be gone over now.
But he gave me some pointers that I felt
worth writing down.
So that was my take of the speaker end of it.
Well, Polki, you are the enough veteran.
This is your third one.
So compared to the last two, how would you think this one would be?
The venue sucks.
I thought that the people were great.
They get greater every year.
The being at the table for agri-public radio,
you guys let us do this.
It's three years in a row.
You haven't charged us.
And it's so it was a we thank you for that.
We thank you for letting us not pay.
Then we would.
We would.
But you guys, let me take that note hand.
I got it.
You guys, I put it in your hand.
Don't be being like that.
It's great being part of North East Sussex Fest.
It's for me personally.
It's as much fun as being part of agri-public radio.
So bringing the two together is terrific fun.
I'd like to do in the interviews up in the hallway.
Kent Fallon style.
It was a blast.
And why Bill was a, he was, I was basically his puppy.
I had the microphone, was the caller, and he was, he was the least, good to see you.
I was chasing interviews.
Yeah, he was talking with his netbook, right?
He's recording on that.
Is that what you guys are doing?
He was running because you're trying to keep up with me.
I'm so excited to talk to everybody.
We chased bad dog off and wanted to do the building to the other floor, he caught up with
it because we were trying to fight through the crowd.
And it was just so much fun.
Bill was so much fun.
I mean, meeting everybody was fun.
Yeah.
You know, all the podcast and people.
I thought that the conference continues to get better every year.
The venue, I'm not a particular fan of the venue.
I didn't think that the school offered anything more than the other school.
And in some respects, I thought it was less.
And I just, I just think it's, it's, I personally, I think it's time for more volunteers.
That's all, you know, double up on tasks so that, you know, all these things that, that
slip-class minute, you know, we need two people on those things so that if it slips, we
got somebody else.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
Backed up on that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This idea has been synced between the two of us so that person can drop out because I know
everything they knew.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The hit by a bus contingency plan.
Yeah.
You know, that kind of thing, it's, it's, it's a real good problem to have that the conference
has grown into that.
I mean, the first year, John, that you put the conference on, with, um, actually my solo,
yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The first year is kind of solo.
I mean, it should have gone as well as it did the first year.
Right.
It gave me too much confidence, you know, because I mean, we only did a half day, there's
four, maybe five speakers.
Yep.
I mean, I was doing it this weekend for door podcasts, so I called some people with
and Red Hat said, hey, I'm thinking of doing this half day event, which is mind sponsoring.
They sponsored that, them just the one sponsor to cover everything I needed.
Yep.
And then just boom, boom, boom, everything lined up and it just went so easy.
I was like, that's the hard thing, you know, but, you know, I think going from last year
from a low day one track, we'll also say year two, you didn't change anything.
Right.
So it was perfect.
It worked just as it was right.
But yeah, all we did was just make the day longer, but yeah, and we extended the track
with stills the same kind of thing.
But this year, four tracks, you know, we had doors for geeking in his classes, we had, you
know, a few other classes going on, open database was doing their own thing.
And so it was exponentially more work.
And we found, Bruce and I found it quickly, you know, like the last two to three weeks,
we're like, yeah, this might not be good.
These next few weeks, but a lot of stuff started piling on.
And, you know, like I said, we made it through it.
It still was a great success, I think.
Nothing.
We're failures.
We all moved through and everyone, you know, all the sponsors and speakers were still,
you know, working with us and just moving forward.
So it went well.
Yeah.
You know, it didn't go well.
I don't think you can do that in practice.
Yeah, no.
I think it's a positive thing that the conference has outgrown two guys right now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But really, we're really one guy.
Bruce Patterson is by far the man.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Yeah.
But you wouldn't even know when he was at the event.
That guy was run around doing so much stuff, going up and down stairs, trying to take
care of stuff.
Yet he, he, did you go to Microsoft or buy someone a hard actor?
Like, dude, you're the man.
Like, someone, I would have been like, no, we don't have one and I can't get you one.
Like, you know, you should have brought it yourself.
But Bruce is like, I'm going to go to Microsoft and get you one.
Like, just stuff like that.
So really, if any time someone sees Bruce Patterson, you owe him a beer or something and dinner,
he did a ton of work.
Thank you very much.
Bruce.
Yeah.
Those are the beers.
I can also follow that up with, I personally saw Jonathan sit down and do a whole lot of
nothing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He, he, he, he, personally told me he was afraid that the single chair was going to
float away.
And then he had to hold it down.
But he, Jonathan's defense, when the lights went out, he saved the day.
That's right.
So, speaking of the door to the repeat door, how were your classes, had that go?
Did you think it was a, um, considering, once again, I was totally unprepared?
No.
Not completely.
No, but wait, I want to, I want to ask this more important question.
Those people that were from the work released program, I don't know.
Thanks Bruce.
Thanks Bruce.
Thanks Bruce.
I wanted to give you that.
Well, first, I was literally unprepared.
I wanted to finish preparation on the bus trip up.
It was a nine hour bus trip.
Didn't have enough physical room to do it.
Their Wi-Fi was pointless to connect to.
It was slower than dial-up speeds.
So I got there, I got my room, and I noticed there's no pro-jector or recorder.
And I'm like, no, that's okay, I don't mind.
And then Bruce says, you don't have a projector.
No, that's okay.
But I can, no, don't really.
Don't give me a projector.
Because people we dissatisfied by what they say, they see on the screen.
So, due to the fact I was unprepared, I think it actually went really good.
I tried to be as interactive as possible.
I literally wanted people to steer what they wanted to hear.
So I let them, basically, suggest things.
I had overarching goals, but not at the end, suggesting that it went really well.
I learned, apparently, some people who like a broadcasting network from the Northwest
also like marijuana, and it was totally unbeknownst to me, but apparently they are.
I had a couple of people in the class that knew of me from podcast, and they were really
nice the whole time, supporting the whole time.
One guy, John, he is really new limits, but he is like powering through learning, and
he has some fantastic questions.
I love those guys, but I still amazement of them.
Yeah.
Such passion.
John McCarthy.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
John McCarthy.
He's super nice.
What did you do during the event on Saturday, too?
He helped out a ton.
Yeah, and as far as the folks from the work release program, we behaved ourselves quite
that way.
Well, and I was supposed to give five classes, because initially there was a little bit
of a delay.
I did not want to override the opening keynote, aka Jonathan, so I purposely waited until
Jonathan was done in another 15 minutes before I got started.
So I took what supposed to be five talks, and I crammed it down to three.
I combined here, a little there, a little here.
I have a recorder, I have the audio done, I had a good interaction, but I always wanted
to share more, talk more.
So I'm going to, on the record, do some follow-up, screencast, audio stuff, and I'm going
to, of course, submit what I can to HPR.
Did you let the folks in the conference know to look for that?
Yeah, multiple times, multiple times.
The one thing I got to say I really liked about this fest was I got to meet Bruce Patterson.
I got to meet Pokey.
I got to meet Bag Wolf.
I got to once again, shake hands with Cody Cooper, Russ Winner, Jonathan, countless other
people.
I'm going to stop now because I will forget people.
Matt John, you met John Solan from the FSF?
First time, John Solan, tall fellow.
Matt Lee.
Matt Lee.
Rubin from Troy.
Yeah, Rubin.
Rubin is cool.
Yeah, I love Rubin.
That's all I have to say.
Yeah, yeah.
I literally want to, like, take out a loan and to, too, so I can help Rubin, become more,
whatever, better, whatever he does.
I want to help publicize what he does, because he's a really smart, nice guy.
Yeah, I got to meet Thomas, command line.
Oh, yeah.
That was cool.
Glad to.
I know.
I almost didn't recognize him.
His hair was almost normal color.
I'm just going to walk.
I looked to the side of it.
You got to kind of look.
That's got to.
You look the same to me.
Well, I did it.
Um, I only got to really sit on, sitting on a couple tops, uh, I got to say, uh, Ted
from Google.
Yeah, Ted Chow.
Dude.
Who can think it is level?
Yeah.
I do.
I want to look at both sides I have to bring up this.
I'd ask him to beảngh his partner from Google again.
Well, that business really works a lot in hand.
lem пост go app on that.
No matter what they are saying it's not made for black or anything else.
Right now.
People are doing it.
You're just going to get them if that they need it.
ishment I'd sit on at his toilet.
Yes.
Casual to see.
I've offered them yet.
the weekend. He's like, I just got back in the town a few hours ago and then he came
to give the talk at the event. Like, that's just cool. Like, a guy with his, you know,
whatever you want to say, his, well, yeah, exactly. He took the time to just come on
down top right now or, you know, who was, who, who said the line at lunch when you can
say, well, Samsung, yeah, should have contacted me before I started this. Yeah, he's
talking about Samsung doing their new file system for Android and he's like, Samsung
should have got a hold of me first before they started doing that. That's when you know
you know your stuff. To rewind on Ted a little bit, before we even knew who he was, he came
up to the table and was just talking with his dad for at least a couple minutes and then
he asked where the certain hall was and he goes, yeah, I'm supposed to give a talk at noon
and then that's what it all clicked, but we found out who he was. I mean, he got the
husher demoted Jonathan. So yeah, it's very, very, very nice guy. Yeah, and I'll say to me,
the best thing about NELF is it felt like I literally had the time to sit down and meet every
bunch. Yes, that's me. That was very cool. And I'll say, I've only been to one other fast
OLF and at OLF, it's like the people and the professionals kind of blend in together and it's
really hard to tell who you're talking to for a couple seconds. With NELF, I knew who the company
people were, but they were normal people most of them too. So I actually enjoy talking to them.
You know, the guy from Openstack, he's sitting back with his soccer shirt on, just talking normal
about stuff. You know, I thought that was great and they had some of the best swag, I'm sorry,
the OpenShit model with their USB key. That was a wristband networks. That was a wristband networks
that has that. No, I know. It's OpenShit. And Poke, I got two, you can have it.
I literally, I literally want to talk to him just to grab a second.
It's a topic I've been meeting to bring up on some podcast at some point is, you know,
what physical format do you prefer your USB keys? But I think you just answered me.
For further record, Russ Whiterick's, the Russ Whiterick was holding Anthony because I'm going to
use this all the time and to store data on it. Yeah, I will say the one thing about the settings,
the university I really, really liked was we were literally in lecture halls, some of us.
Where the speakers did not have to talk loud and people literally 50 feet away can easily hear.
Yes, yeah. I was really, really, really acoustics. Yes, yes.
No, I got two things to say about that. Well, yes, it was awesome that people could be in the hall
speaking at almost a normal speaking voice and be heard through this giant hall. The room was
designed correctly and it was done right. And after seeing Classy's talk, that's really my only
regret of the conference is not giving the talk that I could have given. Because one of the
things I was really afraid of is that my voice wouldn't fill the room. Because I just, for
people who have listened to the Bible, I just had a sinus surgery. I didn't think I could raise my
voice enough. You probably understand a little funny. That was my regret. I think it would have been
really fun to give my talk and we're like that. The other thing I will say about on the other hand,
this is this is one of the reasons why I wasn't really impressed with the venue. I've been in a
couple of other Harvard lecture halls before and they could have given us a more impressive room.
They could have, you know, they've got some rooms there with some real history to them.
And you sit in and you go, oh, these are the halls of knowledge. Now I get it. That's not the
feeling I got in their science. I'll say the best thing about the building was there was a
Winnie the Pooh tree outside. There you go. That was cool. That was cool. But when we went and visited
the tree, someone had already kicked the door in. That was cool. The shingles on there.
Yeah. Okay. But as an active, as an active generosity, they also left a pair of
Skullcandy headphones on the top. Really an ugly one. Yeah, they look like pink purple ladybugs
or something. Right. And I'll say one of the best surprises of the festival was discovering
John Harvard's tavern. Oh, yeah. With the double-duse barley wine. Oh, yeah. And I'll say,
the biggest, to me, disappointment of this fest, I couldn't not have Tracy Holt sit next to me
and describe what this beverage actually was. I don't think you could. Yeah. I just know it was
fantastic. Normally, I don't drink barley wine, but I had to order it simply because of the
Roadhouse reference. And I have to apologize here because I turned my ringer off on my cell phone
when I went into the class who's talking. I didn't turn it back on. And had it been on,
I would have heard you guys calling me and had you there because Thomas C'man, like Gideon,
could have told you everything about everything. Oh, I really did. Tell us everything about
every beer in that restaurant. Told us the true difference between stout supporters.
We'll bring him back next year. Oh, yeah. Yeah, he said he'd be like, he'll definitely be back.
What a great guy. And people who have seen me at other fest might have heard me say this,
but I'm saying it again. This is a really clean city. I'm from the Baltimore area. I'm used to
the scummy underworld where everything is clean city. But paired the Baltimore. I think it's
sparkly. I think it beats the hell out of New York. But it's no DC. You know, it's no
nicer parts of DC beat the hell out of this. There's no city. I'll say DC writes everything.
They have horrible disgusting parts where you really need to wear like metal underwear because
you know what's going to happen. Yeah. But they do have clean socks. There's a bloody part.
He was totally talking about it. What's talking about the people there? Is that way per capita
they have more chastity bills? And I'll say this, even though I don't think he'll ever listen to this,
it was a pleasure to meet Joe. Oh, yeah. Yeah, he knows. Barnacle Joe. This is a new man if he
didn't know this is a shorts. Well, he's just a really nice guy. He tried to hang with us last night
and I will repeat one line from last night and that is it takes a man to have a good time.
And I think he was a little young, but he definitely tried to have a good time.
Nice. But we were just walking around after the fest last night and this guy just followed us.
And we were like, I have a conversation with him on the way. We figured he was walking
like his hotel, but now he just like stayed with us the whole night. And Russ and I and Jonathan were
standing away from the door door, took him to do something quick. And so Russ wanted a nickname
and tag along Joe. And I accepted his name in Barnacle Joe because all of a sudden he's on the
whole of our ship. We know the hell it came from. But he ended up being an indispensable part of our crew.
A door treated him. Door was a gentleman. He was he was feeling under the weather. Gave him a
place to stay. Well, I knew he was going to be horrible the next day. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I didn't want him to lay on the floor, wake up and feel horrible and still.
So for all the horrible emails we get to Lin's sort of as saying how much of a humanitarian
door is not. I mostly agree, but after witnessing that act of kindness, I have to be on his side
just to leave it. Oh, actually, one other thing too. A big thanks to door for helping us out early
crunch time yesterday. Yeah, everyone in the room actually helped out a ton of stuff. Yeah,
greatly appreciated. Yeah, it was fun. I'm sorry, I like crunch time and getting things done.
Yeah, well, like we didn't like that kind of stuff. I kind of relate. I like putting things off
to the last minute. I don't call it hunky frowning. No, one thing I wanted to mention, I was sitting
here thinking I think I've seen John Maddog call seven times and I never get tired to listen to
it. Oh, no, it is. It's not at all. This event was epic. It was really, really good. Yeah,
and he talked for like about an hour and 40 minutes, I believe. Yeah, like an hour and a half
something like that. Yeah, yeah, and the centerpiece of his talk at the end was a raspberry pie-based
solution for San Paulo. Yes, I've heard Latin America. Yeah, do you know Cala project? Well,
it's not Chicago. See, I talked to him about this and this will have already aired on HPR by
the time the list was here and this was okay. I talked to him about this yesterday on HPR and this
idea of his is not for San Paulo and for South America. These are just the pilot programs to show
everybody else how it works. That can be successful. Yeah, exactly. He's putting them in or
is attempting to put them. He's doing this in the places where it's most likely to be successful
first, but these are pilot programs. These are to show people that it can be done, that how to do
it, that it can be done. And I just want to make sure that that bad wolf gets a chance to talk
here because he spent quite a bit of time with Mad Dog. All right. So what did you think of Mad Dog?
I like Mad Dog. He was cool. He's telling me about like how everybody thought the first computer
was in like the 60s, but it was actually in the 40s. Actually, the place was called, but actually far.
Yeah, literally far. And I was astonished how 30,000 people could actually just hold a secret like
that for like 20 years. I did, well, actually, it was 30 years because I didn't release it until
the 70s. Yeah. Mad Dog is pretty cool. I like him a lot. Yeah. His best treat to me is,
besides being just a genuinely nice guy. Yeah. He has the uncanny ability to understand
very complex things, but to describe them in such a way. Yes. Everybody can understand what he's
talking about. Yeah. And he has no ego whatsoever. He will talk to anyone who will talk to him.
What do I hear? He's a good storytellers. What do you hear? He can tell the story. He may tell
you something you already know. But you want to hear his first thing. He tells it better than anyone
else ever told it. Yeah. I heard him say seven times at the same joke about when he was at
Drexel. And with for five hours, you could buy a senator or two. Yeah, it's funny every time.
He just, you know, you just could sit and listen to him talk all on and on. So much wisdom,
so much experience. Well, and obviously to me, the absolute worst part of milk is the fact
that right now it's over. Yeah. Yes. Well, that's not the worst part for me and the
worst part right now. Well, there's still a lot of time tonight to get arrested to do all sorts
of things. Rust, can I tell the story about five guys? Sure. Okay. Let's say one of my favorite
things about this whole trip was taking a rust winner to five guys burgers with fries for the first
time. We we walked by it on the way to the after part. Yeah. And I explained to him what the
place was. And he's like, okay, that sounds good. And then a couple hours later, a few few few beers
into that. I see I suggest, hey, Russ, five guys might still be open. And he goes, yeah.
And then about five minutes later, this hand gripped my shoulder and I heard someone scream burgers.
I look up and it's rust winner. Yeah. Yeah. So I was like, okay, man. So we walked across
the street went to five guys, showed him the menu, explained what the whole deal was. I told him to
get the small fry because it was just for himself. I wasn't going to get one. But he did not, he
did my warning. He got the regular size fries, which is if you guys haven't been to five guys,
they give me a ton of fries. They scoop fries into a into a cup and then put the cup into a bag
and then throw two more scoops of fries on top of the cup in the bag and then put your burger in
there and hand it to you. Well, that's called the ghetto grocery bag. But yes, sitting sitting with
Russ, watching him enjoy his drunk munchy food. There's seven in some Google plus. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
If you follow me, Cody Cooper on Google plus, I got a great photo of him giving me a death stare.
Yeah. Chew chew it on that burger. Well, you got one that goes. Yeah. That was the next morning.
You got one eight there or one. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, that for me is one of the highlights.
And then right before we left, five guys, he had his little tray of peanuts and he looked,
he looked over his shoulder, looked at me, shoved the peanuts in his pocket and said one of my
favorite quotes the whole festival. Wait, you did say pee, not tea nuts. Yes. Yes. Okay.
And then they have free key nuts. Man, I'm holding a pocket. I got two orders of fries.
And a little tray of a half left shoved in his pocket, locked eyes of me and said, let's go be
drunk somewhere else. And we did. And because when Russ winner says something like that, it's more
of a directive than I said. Yeah. It wasn't a suggestion. It wasn't a no no. And I'll say one thing,
I fully forgot. Mad Dog is maybe one of the givingest guys I've seen. Yeah. He gave you Jonathan.
Oh, yeah. Vermont. I think it's an enhancer. Yeah. I was going to say that was probably my highlight.
Mad Dog when he came in. I was like, Hey, Mad Dog, how you doing? She's just hand in,
you know, game is teacher and stuff. And he's like, Jonathan, have you gotten your license
for Linux yet? I was like, no. I'll say no this. He stays into his backpack and he pulls out.
I was like, here, he has been this license plate and it says Linux. And then across the top, it says,
live free or die. And I was like, nice. And if anyone's on a door, door geek with a Google
Plus or a Cody, you've seen the picture. So yeah, holding it up so proudly. Oh, yeah.
This picture came up last night while we were recording a dev random. And if it don't listen to
the dev random, it's not a good thing. That's what I heard. We're working on it. It's not,
we're not satisfied. It's not good. We're working on it. But the one guy on there at the
R is so funny because he does not realize when someone's eating on the joke. And he thought
that somebody was being me. And his reaction was so genuine and so hilarious.
That's awesome. You see the picture? Yeah, you'll find the picture. You'll see.
Yeah, I told a plot too about the picture. And I've never heard him laugh like that before.
He laughs so hard. He's like, oh, man, that's so funny. I have to find that picture.
So, would you all think of the after party at J.J. Foley?
Pretty awesome. Dude, genius beer window. That's all I got to say, genius.
Yeah, for as small as the area was, how many people were in there? You knew they had their stuff
down because not only was it a good bar, they had good food, they had plenty of staff. I mean,
plenty of staff to walk around and take care of every single table. They did it in the
espiniate manner. We're really, really polite. One of the things that impressed me which I've never
seen in a bar ever. I was walking back from five guys and they weren't sure whether or not
someone had paid for several plates of food. And the bartender literally told Jonathan he had as
well, I believe you. And if we can't prove it, we're just going to go ahead and let it go.
Well, yeah, I also knew that guy. I've been there quite a few times. So, he knew me.
Yeah. So, I don't know if he would have been like that everyone. Yeah, but yeah, it was really
cool guys though. Yeah, good. Yeah, the bar was great. I contributed to completely tapping the
beer fund as fast as I could when they got there. But then it was extended, which was nice. So,
we stayed. And I actually had to be extended in a couple times. Yeah, that's fine. I was part of
the problem. If I can say something about the after party, I'll say the same thing I've said
three years in a row. I don't, I know, I know some guys have fun at these places. I don't think
it's a good idea to have an after party at a loud public place. For me, I think an ideal place
would be like a conference room somewhere that either had a bartender who was paid for the hour
and knew we weren't going to buy a ton of beers because some people don't. The number of people
who would go to the after party and not drink is as surprising as the amount of beers you guys drank.
Well, in February of 2011. Yeah, or the other option would be a route, just a room,
that a lot of BYOB. And let anybody take care of that so on. Because there's so many people that
would have rather have just found a place that's quiet that they could talk or to pull out a
couple of board games and just chill. I think a place like that would be a cool after party. And
if it if Ralph continues to be a two-night event, you know, maybe one of the nights could be one
of those and then the other night could be the loud public bar. For people like doing that, you know,
it's none of my agree. Well, I'm not really with you, too. Loud is not good. When we were in Ohio,
there were certain places we could not go into because Jonathan couldn't hear anything.
Yeah, I mean, only went there because I know. And majority of people are going to be there.
And I see the beer bottles coming. Exactly.
And we know so at these times.
Yeah, but that's just a question. And the only reason I don't know how how good it was,
and I believe you guys said it was good, but they they wouldn't let us in.
Right. They wouldn't let the bad wolf in.
They would they knew his reputation. Yeah, it would not let you know.
They said we don't have enough alcohol I got for him, so we're not going to miss it.
Yeah, we weren't going to make a big deal. We made the best of it. We drove our two hours home,
and he went to sleep, but I went to the death random. So I will say another one of the highlights
for me was the bartender outside Foley's. He was 60, he said he was six foot eight. And he was making
jokes about people's IDs on the way in. And I handed him a mind, and I said, if you make a joke
about my chins, I'm not giving you points for originality. And he just goes, all right, Tusha,
hand me your ID, let me in. On our way back out later, he's a referencing really cool films,
like him and another guy just sitting there, saying a title of a movie, and then making a quote from
it. And then one of the guys says Roadhouse, they both chuckle, but they don't say anything.
So I came up and I challenged him. I said, you know, I'm really upset that you didn't,
that you mentioned Roadhouse, but you didn't give any quotes. You know, I'm very, very disappointed in
you. Keep in mind this guy is like way, way taller than me sitting here looking at him dead in the
eyes. He was a big goose guy that wouldn't let us in. Yeah, yeah. And I said, I thought you'd be bigger.
It was a quote from Roadhouse, and then he leans down and looks at me running the face and he said,
pain don't hurt. You got your points back. I think another person that we should mention, thank
you too, is this guy Paul. He really came through with a lot of things last minute, too, because
at the time we were short of projector, and he actually just walked away a block over. He works
at Harvard and came back with one guy to set up, and we were really good to go. So yeah, Paul was pretty
awesome. He just wandered around looking for ways to help. He always kept checking on me, Jonathan,
what do you need me to do? And I fell back, said I always have something for him to do. He's like,
he gladly did it. And he did, you know, yeah. He was, I didn't realize for a while that that's what
he was doing. I just thought that I was lost, because he was wandering around. And a couple of times,
I wanted to say, you're not going to help you find something, but then right when I was about to,
because I was right next to Jonathan. The guy would turn to Jonathan and say, hey, can I help you
with anything, anything? So yeah, the guy was just a really cool guy. He's one of those guys.
Sometimes they exist. He just wants to be helpful. He really was. We really appreciate it.
Yeah. Well, and I know in Southeast, let me express, they always give the award for the person
that climbs the farthest. And no one can compete with Peter 64. I know one guy who flew in from
Israel to be to this fest. Wow. His name's Tom, really nice guy. He came out and he said,
I don't know, more than a couple of talks. And he said, he said, not in front, didn't he? Yeah,
I think I recognize it. He said, and he said, you know, I'm constantly amazed at how people
just give away all this great information. He was here for the tour project, wasn't he?
Yeah. And I was like, dude, that's what Atlantic's fest is really about.
It's about coming, coming, learning. And the thing is, you're never really learning something,
you're learning enough to get interested in stuff. Right. So then when you leave the fest,
you have something to do, you know, and Pokey had the, what was the contraption?
Oh, the wood gasifier. Wood gasifier. I want to hear that HPR episode, because that one's coming
out too. Yeah, I got it, I got to do some experimentation on it so I can, so I can tell you
something that the world doesn't already know about it. I think I have some new ideas about it.
Well, and it will, you know, this is my classic reason why everyone should do it HPR.
I know nothing about it, Pokey. But the, but the reason that I had the wood gasifier
was to make people say, hey, what is that? And that was a good way to start a conversation,
because the, the answer is it's my next HPR show, or it's HPR, or what's it about? And then I
could talk to a little further, but it was just to get conversation started. And it actually worked.
I, I, I thought, I, you know, people were going to go to that crazy guy with the cans,
but everybody actually worked. Yeah, I got to say he was, he was very, very passionate about it.
Just decided about it once he passed it. No, I'll go the extra mile and say passion,
because he was, with his, with his inflection and his actions, he was saying, oh, wait,
there's more, but he didn't actually say, oh, wait, there's more, because just when you thought
you knew everything about it, and then you, you had to like, the cover. And by the way,
here's this accessory, you get this, you know, almost as if he's trying to sell him,
but he's not. He's like, oh, and you get these two codes, he's just very, very, very cool
little project. And the fact that you found the parts which were somehow destined to go together.
If you guys hear this before or after this episode, this will make a lot of sense.
We were talking about this later, I was thinking, what if the people in these manufacturing
factories like made these parts specifically, so they could have this little miniature stove?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Maybe think a lot like Batman begins where you had to order the parts from
like different places so they could eventually construct the helmet. I think that these
stoves are going to be used to like overtake a small nation somehow.
You think so, that's true. Yeah. We had somebody on the internet stumbled upon this.
Well, they're going to stumble on the HDR episode, and you're going to be responsible for all of it.
No, no, no, no, no, this is already out there on YouTube. I found this on YouTube,
I didn't discover the two. But you're the more refined version.
No, I'm just the first guy who's seen one that understands how it works.
It's pure fucking magic.
Well, here's the two things I'll say about HDR about that. One,
poke you wouldn't take my place. The episode should be called How to Survive Zombie Apocalypse,
because if you put that in the title, it's going to get a lot more downloads.
But two, HDR is the smartest thing I've ever seen at a fest.
There a podcast with syndicated content. How many episodes now? A thousand?
12 or five. 12 or three? Is it 12?
Yeah, that's what we saw when we left. You don't question that.
Yeah, you got a point. He said that with authority.
And they had a Mr. Wolf, and they had a binder that you could flip through that had
show numbers, descriptions, and QR code.
Oh, yeah, that was code, crunchier.
So it's an access to that cast. That is fantastic.
Is there somebody saying something? All you got to say is, yeah, they did HDR on that.
Flip, flip, flip, plot your phone.
And I've got to say Bruce has one of the most fantastic Android flip phones.
It's amazing, it's amazing. But that's just genius to give people a seamless way
to get right into the content.
Well, it's very typical of HDR, where if somebody on the mailing list,
or on the back channel, somebody says, I have an idea.
I'd like to do this. What do you think?
Well, the answer so far, I've never seen the answer not be,
I think you're in charge of that.
Go for it. People just do good ideas.
They don't bother bringing them up. There's not good ideas.
You know, and so A, hell yeah, do your good idea.
But B, I'm not in charge of this thing.
Of course, do your idea. Nobody at hacker public radio has the right to tell you,
no, you may not do your idea.
Nobody has that right anyway. Nobody wants to say that anyway.
So when people come up with ideas in hacker public radio, that's what it's
there for us for our community to have those ideas.
And it's kind of self-regulating because the people who enjoy the kind of shows that we have
aren't the kind of people who are going to abuse that system.
Right.
Well, I'll say now, Jonathan, there's good news for you.
You can publish that upgrading from Windows 7 to Windows 8.
Perfect. I've been up there.
I'm trying to find a place to put that.
And speaking of that wood gasifier stove, by the way, guys, I do have it here.
I haven't tested it yet. You think it would make the smoke alarm so loud in this hotel room?
Let's go to your room and find out.
And the only reason I wouldn't take his idea with the zombie name,
I don't like the whole zombie thing. I don't give it any credit. It's what's so
web, right? It's just about the numbers. It's just about the numbers.
Yeah, I don't sell out.
Well, you could say something effective.
When there's no more room in hell, you'll need to cook your food with a paint can.
It could come to that. I don't think it is for hiking.
I like it for backpack and whatever.
Urban survival.
Yeah, there you go.
So does anyone have any closing comments on NELF?
Looking forward to the next one?
Yeah. 2014.
Yes.
Yeah, definitely. If you didn't make it this time, let me tell you.
From what I understand, it's just gotten better every year.
I was really impressed with it.
It was my second to fast, as I went to OLF last year.
The interaction with the community was really great.
Please pre-register.
Yes.
So that way that organizers have an idea of numbers of people coming in because
I can tell you, we've had some kind of group talks as far as ideas of what to do next year,
to make it better and bigger, and a lot of good stuff coming down the pike.
So definitely do what you can to make it next year.
Do you know the dates for next year?
I don't.
Yeah, but I would say roughly the same time.
So some, you know, middle to late March or whatever.
So, you know, as of right now, I would say it's at Harvard again next year.
So until then, you can assume it'll be there.
What about you getting close to thoughts?
Be there next year.
Nice.
All right, everyone. Thank you for joining us.
Bye-bye.
Bye-bye.
See you next year.
Bye-bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday,
Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it
really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dark pound and the
economical and computer cloud.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com,
all binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released on the road.
Creative commons, attribution, share a lot, lead us our lives and see you soon.
