Episode: 1801
Title: HPR1801: How to tell your left earbud from your right
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1801/hpr1801.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 09:26:10

---

This is HPR episode 1801 entitled How to Tell Your Lefty Abund From Your Right.
It is posted by Ken Fallon and is about three minutes long.
The summary is lowering the quality on shows, can provide a life hack tip.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, this is Ken Fallon, recording a show and a sunset clip
using the most unbelievably complicated recording interface
using rock bucks completely unintuitive.
Anyway, this show is directly in response to all the excellent quality
shows that we have had on the network recently.
I have decided that the bar is being set far far far too high
and I call upon myself to lower the bar somewhat.
So that's what I intend to do today.
This is my show.
Here's a tip.
If you want to tell your left earbud from your right earbud,
then I suggest putting a knot in one of the earbud's
leads. That way you can tell by feeling
that the one with the knot is the one that goes on the left side
if you chose to put it on the left side.
And the one without the knot is the one that goes on the right side
if you choose to do it on the right side. Of course the danger of this is
if you are inconsistent and you decide to put knots on one
on one side and knots on another one on the other side that will be entirely
confusing. Also, I would strongly advise against putting
knots on the left and the right hand side.
As that would also be confusing and be slightly redundant.
Okay, having sufficiently lowered the bar, I think
anybody listening can be confident that whatever show this end in
will be more technically proficient, proficient,
proficient will actually probably use real words.
Will be a lot better than this one. So let me include some ums
and as here as well to round off the show.
Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday
Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR
listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the infonomican computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under
Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
