Episode: 1877
Title: HPR1877: Recording HPR on the fly on your Android phone
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1877/hpr1877.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 10:41:53

---

This is HPR Episode 1877 entitled Recording HPR on the fly on your Android phone.
It is hosted by Clacket and is about 6 minutes long.
The summer is.
How quickly can you get an HPR recording done?
10 minutes including app install.
Sort on.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
Better web hosting that is honest and fair at An honesthost.com.
I'm Chucket and this is episode record HPR on the fly on your Android phone.
And I'm recording these HPR episodes on the fly on my Android phone.
I didn't do any notes.
I just looked over the applications available in Android but we found it to my search for record.
And I took the ones that do have anything to do with audio and I checked them all over.
And I'm recording these in new records.
So while I'm recording this.
I'll take a look on my app page where I put these things.
First I tried Dictophon.
I'm on Android 5 and Dictophon says no recordings.
Press record in the menu to record.
I don't have a menu because I'm on Android 5.
I tried it on my gingerbread phone and there it worked nicely.
But I couldn't find any settings for audio quality or anything like that.
So it's not immediately obvious that it's recording at the recommended 44.1 kHz.
The next step I tried was rehearsal assistant.
That's a pretty interesting one if you're not on Android 5.
If you're on gingerbread then rehearsal assistant allows you to create different projects, sessions.
And you can give them names and when you start a session you can record a note and then stop.
And then you can record the note again and you have the timing information and everything.
The idea is you're the director or you're an actor and you go to your theatre session
and you can make these notes on how the performance is going and correlate that with the timing of the play or whatever.
So that's pretty interesting.
So you get a hierarchy.
You can name each note that you record and you can also name the session.
But it's a bit overkill. It took a while to understand exactly how they wanted things.
And the idea here is to record on the fly.
So we want to just install the app, record, go.
Next up is sound recorder. That one works only on Android 5.
And it does only MP4 output.
I don't know if that's a problem, but I wanted wave output because
none of these apps had flat output.
So flat or wave because it's going to be converted to MP3 and to ARM.
And if you have any kind of initial compression, you never know what kind of artifacts upon artifacts you will get.
Even if voice is not that high fidelity, a sounds really cool.
Then you still don't want to get any glitches or whatever could happen when you jump between the formats.
So sound recorder, it looks really slick.
It has this material, you write files.
And you can rename files within the application.
That's really good. None of the others.
No, rehearsal, if this thing can do that.
But none of the others can do that on Android 5.
And then you record.
That's what I'm using because part of this test was also,
OK, I recorded the thing. Now where is my file?
And you record just dumps it in the root of your SD card or on your MP3.
Play the SD card.
So it's really easy to find.
And the others, I still haven't found out where everything is yet.
I'm just doing this on my phone.
If I were on the computer, I'm sure I could click around in the directories and find things.
But on the phone is really important that you can just find it because you want to record on the fly.
I just want to install this thing, record.
Find a file, upload it or copy to your computer to convert it to Slack maybe.
And it's a name, I don't know.
But you just want to touch and go.
Here's another sound recorder.
One, the one that is Android 5 only is a red icon with a microphone.
The other one is a blue cassette tape.
And hey, I lied to you before.
Actually, that one allows you to set names for the audio file.
But it has this really distracting user interface.
And I don't know what quality is recording.
It's a cassette tape.
And it starts rolling when you record.
And then when you stop, it rolls all the way back.
And if that's not distracting enough, actually it rolls the wrong way if you've ever had a...
a physical paper recorder, maybe that would disturb you with that.
And there's direct sticky phone.
And that's an interesting aspect because to click it, it starts recording immediately.
I don't know what the audio quality is.
And by default, it stops after 45 seconds.
And if you're just once again looking to record on the fly, just download and run that thing.
That's no good.
So you're going to have to go into the settings and change things.
And no.
So, you've been listening all this way.
You already know I recommend you record.
And that's what I've been using for this short episode of HPR.
So my name is Klake.
You can find me on Pampio at microcastsmicroca.st slash CLA CKE.
Or you can find me on new social on quitter.se slash CLA CKE.
See you next time.
I get something done.
You've been listening to heckaPublicRadio at heckaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HeckaPublicRadio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative commons,
the inclusion, share, light, freedom, or license.
