Episode: 1955
Title: HPR1955: Install Open Street Map on a Garmin 60CX
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1955/hpr1955.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 11:50:48

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com, get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15, better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com
Hello, this is David Whitman from Oregon and today I'm going to take a Garmin map GPS of 60CX.
I'm going to open street map on that because I need a map for another location. The Garmin came with a map of its own and you can buy an upgraded map or updated map from them for around $125.
But I figured out by using the internet how to put a map on from open street map which is a better map actually it has more detail to it and you're able to add your own points to it and you can contribute then to the open street map project which is what I like about this.
I have the Garmin 60CX in front of me I take the back off of it and remove the batteries from it it's very easy I'm doing this live.
In the bottom underneath the batteries is a micro SD card you move the little slider give it a tap the SD card comes out falls onto the table.
Now I'm using my NY Bill Lenovo ThinkPad X61 computer for this and thank you Bill for suggesting this and I recently got a I think it's a T240 or something that's a little bigger that top of the DVD writer and even with that old technology I want it because I share photographs I take with other people.
So I'm just burdening a quick DVD of the few photos they want since I got a Canon camera DSLR camera.
Anyhow in the sight of mine ThinkPad is a micro SD card adapter so I'll give that a push and pops out for me and I will insert the micro SD card and I've got a little dot marked on mine.
So I don't want to destroy the map that's on it but I'm going to put another map on it and make that one the one I use my GPS uses.
But the SD card adapter into the laptop and I'm going to be jumping around here a little bit.
I let's just close a few things here on the computer computer works really good for I run Linux Mant on it.
I'm simply a desktop computer user when it comes right down to it not a real geek by any means and there's my phone is hooked to it.
And that's another thing I just got a new telephone is actually a lot bigger screener and a Moto X pure works really great for I'm taking it on my trip.
So okay and down now to where I'm going to look at the SD card and mount that telephone there get rid of it so it's not in my way.
And I'm going to look at the try to get that SD card brought back brought up here and mounted so that it's not coming up very well.
Interesting.
I'll be editing this part out of the show.
Sometimes a card reader doesn't work as well as another device does a USB one for some reason so I'm going to give a pause right here and go find that SD card reader.
I'll be taking that with me on my trip now that I think about it so one moment please.
I have these little adapters that go into a USB slot they're very thin just put the micro SD card in there the disadvantage of them is they only have one side on them.
So you've got to make sure that you get the orientation correct when you put it in the slot where the USB thumb drive goes so that the SD card then is the points or the contacts are up.
So I've got that brought up and at the top of the when that comes up at the top there is a folder called garment and I have several GPX files on here too.
I think I'll just grab those while I'm here.
I just select those.
Cut those off there.
I'll paste those onto my into my computer on the desktop so I use that as a stopping place so I can manage them.
I come back to the SD card and they have the root folder the garment root folder now I was confused and I first heard of the root folder.
You know this terminology if you don't know what people are talking about it's very difficult to know what to do and I finally figured it out the root is the top not at the bottom.
So it's a top folder I open it up it has some GPX in there some user data a GP a folder called GPS user data folder and then there are I have three files that are.
.img or two .img files and one of them is g m a p s u p p .img that is the image that the garment will use for the map and then there's another one called test and it is one that it will be used.
I can rename that one and test the original garment map and then for some reason there's a tester dot g db file in there 62 bytes of unknown.
So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to take and change the name on my file that is g map s u p p .img and I'm just going to rename that to something else besides that because that's the one the garment uses.
So I'll just name that dash one and that I know is an osm file in Oregon. I'll just name that so I know what it is so I can rename it later on and so I got that renamed.
Okay so now I would insert my file back into the or my micro SD card back into the garment device it would not pick up a map because the map I it's using is gone or might be a base map already in there but I'm not really sure that.
So the next thing that I want to do is I want to go to the site.
HTTP colon slash slash garment dot open street map dot nl slash and I've got that nishonotes here make a copy of that I have it there open up Firefox and I love using Firefox because of its open nature.
Why use another browser that's closed when you can use an open one and simply put that into the menu bar there to open up and when I come to is something called free maps for garment brand GPS devices for open street map and it says choose your map type.
Now I'm going to make that a little bit smaller by pushing the control minus key you got a generic routeable map generic routeable new style routeable bicycle generic nautical transparent overlay with elevation contours.
So I'm going to want a generic routeable map I don't think I'll choose a new style so it in include a TYP file optional I'm not going to do that.
Choose a predefined country I'm not going to do that and I go down to another section just keep going down shows a map of the world and it says.
Request your map download it directly so that's what I want to do.
And so I'm going to find the tiles I want in my case since by this time tomorrow I will be in the Hawaiian Islands I'm going to find a map of the Hawaiian Islands and they're really difficult to see but on this map but there is two big tiles there I'm going to zoom in by using the plus key.
Just jump over to the site and take a look at it it's really great for some reason the map the tiles that I need there's two of them one of them has part of the Baja Peninsula Mexico and it stretches clear over the Hawaiian Islands and I want to get the two tiles that have the Hawaiian Islands on them for my map.
So let's see it's been a while since I've done this okay make a selection first it says okay so I'm going to go back up here and choose a predefined country.
Okay North America Hawaii and it has selected the two squares with the two map tiles that I need I'm looking down here I think there's VG is there also I think I'm going to select that one also it doesn't come up very easy I think I'd have to go back up to my selection box there.
So I'm going to predefined country I've just clicked on the one two three the fourth box over on the right pick my state Hawaii out and oh and if I go down to the next square I can use enable map tile selection and there and then I can get that VG in there I think too.
Yes so I I think it's VG down there it's a little south quite a bit south into the east of the Hawaiian Islands so now I've got my tile selected and I'm going to have to.
So it says request your map or download it directly so I'm just going to put my email address in and that's the one you can find to contact me on the.
I have a public radio website and I'm going to push build my map and it said come free maps from Garmin bait for Garmin based GPS devices combine map request accepted you receive two emails one email containing a link to the web page where you can track the status of your quest which will be sent immediately one email containing the download location for the windows base camp map source installer map OS X base camp road trip installer and Linux.
Package and GMATSU PB that it dot image IMG where the server and serve process your request there currently one request in the queue the email containing the tracking URL is successfully sent and then go back so I'm just going to jump back and then since I've got Firefox going you do have to have the internet to make this work it looks like and look in my Gmail account which I've already got set up.
In Firefox and Walla and then it so I've got my your Garmin map request tracking ID you successfully question a Garmin map on Garmin open street map dot NL which is the Netherlands thank you can you find a link to the web page shows the current status of your request your map will be available for 60 hours please make sure to check your mail often.
So you won't miss the download window so I'm going to click on the check the status the request cannot be found in the queue it's already most likely the map is already generated and you'll receive another email in your URL where the map can be downloaded where you should receive that email shortly I'm going to close that window again go back to my Gmail inbox sure enough another email is there already because my map is fairly small and your request for a Garmin map on Garmin.
Open street map dot NL is ready the server has generated four different configurations for your maps windows the XE blah blah map OS X dot zip blah blah I'm not interested in g maps s g maps UPP dot zip combine image for director manual placement on the GPS device g map s image and a tile zip.
Okay please browse to the website listed below download the map configurations you're interested in your request will be available on the server for 60 hours before it's deleted.
I have an address there it's a simple matter of taking the mouse clicking on that that is opening up and I've got a list of files there index of map index of Garmin generic and it gives a bunch of numbers there some sort of the key.
The only one I'm interested in is the OSM generic g map UPP dot zip compressed file that contains a single image they can be placed directly under the SD card of the GPS so I'm going to save that link as left click and put that on my desktop or I'm going to work with that.
So two seconds one second my download is going boom it's done now jump over to my desktop there's a zip file right click on it using Linux Mint's wonderful it's just I just extract here.
Distract any archive and where did it go the it has unzipped it the g map S UPP dot IMG is down below file I copy that jump over to my two gigabyte SD card and open my Garmin root file or folder the top one again.
And I'm going to just simply I'm just going to click on the folder and I'm going to put paste into folder now I have the map g map S UPP dot IMG is on her 17.3 megabyte megabytes raw disk image gives the date of it so that is all it takes to get it on to the micro SD card so I'm going to.
Eject my SD card so it unmounts it from the computer by just going to the over to the places menu push and eject now like I said using the card reader in this computer didn't work very good but I have that little USB thumb drive adapter so that's undone now I take my micro SD card out.
And it will drop right into my Garmin device and close a little windows like the locking bar back two batteries are available here check real carefully for the plus and minus and batteries go in.
The back goes on this is a nice GPS unit also have and I will drop on it to also have the Etrex Vista HCX that I have it isn't so good is that so now I'm going to turn on my Garmin device by pushing the button to open to start it up mine says open use open street map on it as the beginning message and I want the light to be on so I can see it.
I'm going to then push the page button and looking for in order for this to work now with what I'm at let me take the micro let me take the recorder with me I'm going to go outside where we can pick up a GPS you can hear the gunfire over next door with about six 800 feet away target practicing today.
And I'm going to press the out button and I keep pressing it until now I'm seeing something in there is the island of Hawaii.
The big islands where I'm going so I've set my cursor over that and I'm jumping down to it.
And as I'm zooming in the I can see the highways on the island come out just a little bit saddle road highway Hawaii 200 is showing here.
This map will be routable when I get to Hawaii then to be able to use when I'm driving a car around looking for some hula girls.
And so that's all there is to it to get a map on to your Garmin GPS open street map on your Garmin GPS.
If I save my points and not I can upload them also to open street map and contribute back if I have anything new to add.
So that's about it today the back inside again and let me check my show notes that I have listed here.
So I have why I like open street map for you so my Garmin 60 cx and Garmin E trex Vista OSM maps have more data for my area than the Garmin supplied maps.
So riding around when I do my mountain bike riding around my area all the logging roads are on there and of course I put my own trails on worldwide maps are available.
You can see where Peter 64 Ken Fallon or even 51 50 lives. It's cheaper than buying a commercial map trell's points and other improvements I put on open street map can be on my map.
And I like the open street map concept and community these olders GPS's can be purchased for bargain prices.
Apparently the suction cup Garmin windshield devices can also be used for open street map or you buy it you get just the with open street map you get just the call it it's a GPS receiver you plug them into your unit.
So there it is for you it's easy to put open street map for really no cost to yourself onto your Garmin open street your Garmin device a 60 cx and a 60.
I'm the E trex Vista now there are ways to build maps and open street map different than I did here but this is the dirt simple easy way to do it doesn't take much knowledge or much geek to do it at all.
And so signing off today for Hacker Public Radio David Whitman from Yankton Oregon thank you and goodbye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HVR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
