Episode: 1276
Title: HPR1276: Two Hacker Public Radio hosts meet face-to-face for the first time
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1276/hpr1276.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 22:47:51

---

This is John Culp here and I have a very special guest here in my dining room.
It's none other than Windigo.
Hello.
What in the world are you doing here?
Windigo.
We are touring the United States, seeing which areas we can agree on.
Me and my girlfriend, that is, and we decided to stop by Lafayette and check out the
Culp Household.
See the Goodwill cluster up front.
Yeah.
So I showed Windigo the Goodwill cluster, which is my bunch of computers and other devices
that I picked up at Goodwill.
So what do you think of that?
Is that impressive?
It is an awesome set up, especially for $13.95.
Yeah.
Many of them, like the Mac Mini up there was $4.99 and it's amazing.
It got good print.
Maybe you guys, before you go out of town, you should stop at the Goodwill.
There you go.
You are loading up on gear.
I'm saying all the sides.
I got to meet Dingle in person.
That's right.
My cat Dingle, who's famous on the status net on account of he posts weather updates periodically
from his own account.
And he's also, I've got another, like, a script that will have Dingle post a password,
a randomly generated password, who will?
So you can type Dingle password space and then an optional length of any number of characters
you want.
You can generate a random password that many characters long and post it to the timeline.
So this, anybody on status net can use this?
No.
Sadly, no.
I don't have it set up like a bot, not, like, what, Nairobi or, what is it, one of the J-Popes
bots.
Yeah.
One of Jeremy's weather bot thing is, I don't know how to do that.
So sadly, I have to just use the local script on my own laptop to do it.
That's cool, though.
Yeah.
So Dingles, I was glad he came back as when I knew that when the go was coming and Dingle
was not here.
I was like, there's no way that I can have, when the go here and not get to meet Dingle.
That would just be too much of a disappointment, but he showed up.
Yeah.
So it's going to be hard for the rest of the trip to top this.
I don't know.
Meeting Jesper will be pretty cool.
So we're all else you guys going to go on this trip.
So we're going to leave here and hit San Antonio, Texas, and then go to Taos, New Mexico,
all up the California coast from San Diego, all the way up to Redwoods.
We're stopping in San Francisco area, Mendocino.
From there, we're going to hit Portland, and then go to Moab, Utah.
And then I think we're stopping in Columbia, Missouri.
And then that would be where J-Pope is in, yeah.
There's a reason for Columbia.
I think we're going to be meeting up with him as well.
That's awesome.
I think I'm going to be meeting up with Fendus, Nathan from StatusNet in Portland sometime.
Excellent.
And I'm meeting up with John Pro in Danville, Illinois, and then it's home to New York.
Man, that's cool.
So are there any other, excuse me, if we can tie this into HBR?
So you and I both posted HBR shows.
Jezra has done at least one show.
Yeah, Jezra, I don't know if he's done a solo one, but yeah.
He did it within White Bill.
And so maybe how can we make this relevant to Hacker Public Radio?
That's a good question.
Let's talk about how hard it is to think of something to talk about on Hacker Public Radio.
Yeah, I think coming up with topics is the part that gets me down.
I'd love to record more and put out a couple more episodes.
But it's hard coming up with those topics.
So I know that they've got a couple recommendations up at the HPR website.
If you'd like to start contributing, you can go and find one of the topics that people
have requested or request your own.
And that you can get an episode out of that.
One of those topics that's on there is music theory.
And I actually have a lot of expertise in this, but I think people might be sorry they
asked for that.
The next one that I'm planning to record is about a script that I just wrote.
I keep talking about scripting and all of these things.
But the latest, excuse me, I've got allergies, but it's bad down here in the deep south.
The latest script I've written is one that will randomly generate a 12-tone row.
And then either play the audio file that's generated through my, like the idea was to write
it to use it with my Raspberry Pi that's hooked up to my clock radio and have this randomly
generated tone row be my alarm.
And be awesome.
So I'm going to do a recording about that also.
So this would be, it's a randomly generated sequence of tones each morning so that you
can't get used to your alarm.
Yeah, it's different every time.
But I've also extended it to where it will create a static HTML page and put it on my
web server every day.
That's awesome.
That's awesome.
So that's the next thing I'm going to be talking about.
But I will get into that a little bit with, get into music theory a little bit to explain
what the heck a 12-tone row is.
Yeah.
And that's where people might like start turning off and droves.
I don't know.
It seems like the more specific certain top you get into certain topics on HPR, the more
interested people are.
So I think, I think people would be interested in it.
We'll see.
We'll see.
You have any idea what your next topic will be?
Anything about this row?
My next video.
Yeah.
I was thinking about doing a podcast with Sarah.
I haven't run it by her yet, so she might be purking up if she can hear us in the other
room.
How much, maybe I should do one with my daughter or my son, like my daughter, for example,
if hacking is about creating and making and reusing and repurposing, there is nobody
better than my daughter, who's eight years old, who has a phenomenal skill with making
Barbie clothes out of anything like God.
If we've got a balloon that somebody blew up and it pops, she will take the popped balloon.
And instead of throwing it away, she will make like a swimsuit for her Barbie out.
Oh, that's brilliant.
And that's, you know, I don't think the hackersphere has ever been applied to Barbie clothes,
but if it has, that's it.
She has it for sure, man.
You give her anything she can make Barbie clothes out of, like tissue paper and just all kinds
of things.
Yeah, just looking around your houses, I bet your kids would make a great HPR.
Yeah, I'll have to think of something for the other, for my son also to talk about.
So we'll see.
Well, any parting shots, or if we recorded enough, I think that's all for me.
All right.
Really glad you came to see me when to go.
No, thanks for having me.
I hope HPR listeners will enjoy hearing this little bit of nonsense from us.
Yeah, make sure to get out your own episode, maybe about your trip.
See y'all.
Yeah.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio, those aren't.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener by yourself.
If you ever considered recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital.Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club.
HPR is funded by the Binary Revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by Lina Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinaPages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments, attribution,
