Episode: 1157
Title: HPR1157: 2012-2013 Hacker Public Radio New Year Show Part 7
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1157/hpr1157.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 20:43:20

---

🎶
Yeah, I could see all the magic eye ones. I was actually pretty good at it. You had to,
people said you had to unfocus your eyes and stuff, but that wasn't really it. You had
to basically do the opposite of crossing them, and it took a lot of relaxation to get
that happening. Yeah, I think that's probably where I've been wrong. It was like you're
supposed to just relax your focus, and I couldn't quite, I mean, I tried that, but I could
never, and it doesn't matter what example I had, you should be able to see that. I can't
see it, what is supposed to be, what is a ship? I can't see a ship, I can't see anything,
you shoot us a ship. It's a ship. It's a shooter. Well, the best example I heard was she had to
look three feet into the picture, and I'll be damned if I could ever look three feet into anything.
Yeah, if you could, that was a way to do it. If you could focus on something three feet behind
the picture, and then have someone move the picture into your line of view without actually
moving your eyes, and you had to really be relaxed for that. It could happen, or you could see it,
but we are coming up on the next New Year's Eve. So we got Mexico, Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador,
Guatemala, and the Central Time Zone of the US and Canada. Happy New Year.
Happy New Year. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. Happy New Year, Verbal. Happy New Year, Coz.
Hey, we have no audio on the OGS teams. 2013, I feel so welcome. And parts of Mexico.
Clock to a done count, because you don't drink anyway. Oh, so I don't get a new year.
No, you get, you get a relived 2012. I'm sorry. Wait, you don't drink? What the hell, man?
I don't drink. I got you covered over here, but you don't drink. You don't eat food.
I know. I like Linux. He just sort of lives in a Linux podrip. That is what it is.
No, I think it's pure, pure coffee drip because he's been on here since 7 a.m.
So as Pokey, I think he was certainly on when I signed on. Yeah, I think I logged in around 530.
Can you guys hear me? That's not coffee, Pokey. That's crack. Well, yep. Not much to mouth,
I mean, somebody doesn't need a whole drink. Man, I thought it was sugar, but that explains a lot.
Yeah, now you guys know why Clock to so skinny. He doesn't eat meat. He doesn't drink.
He's got nothing to get anything out of it. Just swills caffeine. I was gonna say I don't drink either.
He's here on Willpower alone. Hey, I drink, I drink plenty of coffee and I hate no little fella.
Unless you count, unless you count Red Bull.
Speaking of coffee, I love coffee. Hey, my wife said if you cut my wrist, I'd bleed coffee.
I think our neighbors are shooting off guns outside again. Yeah. Oh, wish I was next to your neighbors.
I got lots of coffee for Christmas and that was a good thing. Nice. I got a bag of Cuban coffee for
Christmas. That was pretty awesome. Oh, I got an extreme spike. Is that legal? I got a...
It is in Canada, Clayton. There you go. Oh, man. I got these little catches from my career.
It's just not the packing material. It's Cuban coffee like Cuban cigars. It's not really worth it.
No, it was actually really, really strong coffee. It had a really distinct flavor.
They brew it differently down there too. I've had Cuban coffee. Just like there's Turkish and
great coffee, but I'm talking what I was meaning is the coffee bean itself.
My wife gave me a... it was a 5 kilogram bag of Cuban coffee beans that were vacuum sealed
that she got when she went down to Cuba like in March of this past year and she somehow managed
to hide from me all year long. That was like my big present was this huge bag of coffee beans.
And the first batch of beans that I did, I ground them up and I put them in my French press and
all man. It was just like a kick in the ass. You're reminding me that I need to go get a new grinder.
Right now I'm dealing with my career, which is okay. Actually, my grinder, I have this old grinder
that was made in like 1919. I'm not sitting in front of it right now. It's a hand grinder.
And you grind, you dump all your coffee beans in the top of it and you grind,
you just got a manual crank and you just spin it around.
Cobra 2, you are such a Gentoo user. Yes he is.
You have to grind your own grind it up.
Array for Gentoo users.
Woo-hoo Gentoo.
What is that? I put the grinder in and I turn it on and it grinds the coffee. I don't
have to hand crank it. Yeah, I've got one of those two but it grinds it up too fine. It's like
this little powder that all sticks together. I like to have a little bit of grit to it where it
doesn't tack itself. Well, here's an important thing with a hand crank grinder.
In the morning, when you haven't had that first cup of coffee, it's a whole lot quieter and it
doesn't hurt your head as much. That's why I got a car. It also doesn't wake up your wife.
That too. Well, Cobra 2 is not telling you. He can't use electric grinder because batteries
don't work in Canada because it's too damn cold. He's freaking amish. Okay, I'm done with it.
Yeah, it was pretty cold today right now. Yeah, it got a little crazy in here and everybody thought
it was, you know, was bundled up. Well, hell, man, I'm from Georgia. It's fucking cold up here.
Okay, well, yeah, I'm not too far from Georgia myself. Yeah, it got down, gosh, all the way to,
oh, I don't know, 55 degrees today out here in Southern California. It was terrible.
Shut up. So I thought when I grew up, I grew up in just outside the Los Angeles, you know,
and I thought, you know, it got hot there. And then I came to the, you know, to the southeast,
and I found out what the fuck hot meant. There is nothing like the heat of Florida and the
August man. That's terrible over there. I'll stand that. I don't know. Georgia, South Carolina,
you know, it's worse than Florida. Yeah, I grew up, I grew up down there in Florida,
Georgia, Alabama area. So yeah, I know how that is. Yeah, I lived down in Georgia for
quite a few years, and glad I'm not down there anymore. Of course, I just, right now I miss it like
hell. Of course, I spent like seven years in New Hampshire. I spent seven years in New Hampshire,
and man, it's, it's, it's warm in the winter when it gets up into the single digits above zero.
I went to Florida in August 2008, and yeah, I'm quite hot. I also got a mosquito bite,
so I'm totally unexpected, but I ended up on this, on this trip to an island. And yeah,
anyway, not as hot as, um, uh, Charmel Sheep from what I remember in, uh, October 2005 in Egypt.
But that's a dry heat, man. This is a wet heat. Yeah, it is. It is kind of heat you can cut with your
knife. I've been in Arizona in July. Yeah, I've been in Death Valley in September and August
in September. I've been in freaking South Carolina in Georgia in August, and it, it's worse.
Dude, I'm actually, I've actually taken that, um, that saying, you know, fry, fry an egg.
I've actually taken an egg in, in, in August in Jacksonville, Florida, threw it on the sidewalk and
washed that thing cook in front of my eyes. Oh, definitely. We took an iron skill at one time,
set it out in the, uh, only carport and put an egg in it and fry it up one day.
I don't know. I usually, uh, find my things in a pan on the stove, but, uh, I call, call me crazy.
God, I prefer the stove myself. No, I just wanted to see if it really was back when it worked.
And we're back on food again. Yeah, it comes bro pole circle. You know,
it's what you get for the bunch of fat guys. That's right. I made a flu. Yeah, I mean,
I'm just talking about myself and Gorkhan. Yeah. I made a chicken dip tonight.
I am, I am just over 200 pounds. And that is 200 pounds of muscle, dude. I'm just over 200 pounds
myself, pushing three. I'm talking. I am 201, maybe 202. And it's all muscle. Yeah, but
you're only four one. Um, five nine. I'm 275. Of course, I'm six foot five. So it don't look so bad.
I'm six three and I'm about 250. Oh, that's, that's, that's fine. I don't, you know, my doctor
keeps on saying, you're not fat. You're just a large person, but you're not fat. I like him.
I got real broad shoulders. My wife don't seem to mind too much. That's like saying,
you're not fat. You're pleasantly plump. That's what I tell her.
My wife keeps telling me she wants me to put on a little weight so she can feel better.
You know, before we got married, my wife, uh, my wife was pretty dead gum thin. And then, uh,
I got to cooking with lard and shit happened. Lard. That's almost as good as bacon.
In my wife's case, it was two kids. Oh, speaking of which, my wife is 17 weeks exactly today.
Sweet. Nice. Congratulations. Congratulations.
Oh, thank you very much, y'all. Today is in which day, the 31st December or first January,
also, uh, welcome back, Ken. And did he get, did he get to sleep or something?
As in January 1st. I have been in bed just. Good for you. Oh, my goodness. Is it a real
can fallon? It is. No, it's the fake can fallon. But Jesus, good morning. It's the fake can fellon.
You guys must be well-sourced up because I've been in here for an hour and a half. Oh, dude,
you have no idea. Some of these guys, well, I don't drink anymore. I don't drink any less.
Well, I haven't drank it three years. But I don't. Yeah, I started off this evening with a bottle
of Jack Daniels. And it is gone. And I've moved on to three beers and my second bottle of Jack Daniels.
My best thing about a bottle of Jack Daniels is when it's gone. All these people with the
booze, I tell you, you can never trust people that are a bit on the booze. You ain't got no room to talk,
dude. Hey, what was the Robin Williams said about Jack Daniels? I think he said, if alcohol was
the crutch and Jack Daniels for the wheelchair. That stuff is fairly rough now in fairness.
Yeah, that never grew. I mean, if I want to suck on an oak tree, I'll pick up a stick.
Yeah, it's like the chainsaw inside your mouth. See now, I love my Jack Daniels, but I love my moonshine
much more. A lot smoother. Well, since I can't afford Scotch, just give me a ride.
You know, I've had a small jar of moonshine that have been keeping my fridge for about three or
four years now. Dude, you should drop a peach in that shed and let it sit in the sun on your
windowsill for about six months and then eat the peach and throw away the shine. Yeah, the shine
ain't go to get a better. No, this is really kind of odd stuff. It was actually made from sunflower.
So it's kind of an unusual flavor to it. See, now you don't understand because moonshine is pure
corn. You make it out thick. No, I do understand. This stuff was actually made with sunflower. Don't
ask me how or why exactly, but it was made with sunflower. You can actually taste it in the shine.
Well, I'm going to have to look that up because we do raise sunflower. I don't, but I can always go
in my neighbor's fields and knock a few down. Why is probably that I already had some shine?
Yeah. Dude, I found out it is so illegal to make shine up here. It ain't even funny.
Yeah, I don't think I've talked to him. You can't make hard liquor in Kansas either.
In Georgia, you can make three gallons a year. Yeah, I don't drink, but I never understood why
I never understood why moonshine was illegal. Taxes, man. Tax it. Yeah, that's it. The government can get
their pace out of it. Yeah, it's illegal to make for your own consumption. It's illegal to sell.
That's the fact that a room's family. Yeah, we should get her off. No, I had to drag her back out
because she's keying out. Does she need help? Yeah, probably.
Cooper can't find his way out of the room. I tried to move down there, but it was moderated.
Yeah, I wish I could participate in conversations about liquor and beer and moonshine, but I don't drink.
You're lost. So I have no perspective on the situation.
Yeah, we could. Well, it's dark. It's like this, Neodragon. If you drink enough,
then you really, really, really love dual window paints.
Hang on a minute. That would be split window paints. It was a test, this will web to see if
you could resist and you failed. Yeah, I'm almost at the point I've given up for
the evening, but I just want to make it clear. Split window paints. It's not dual window paints.
Now, if you're my age, you know what window paint was. Yeah, I know what it was. I never,
never experienced it myself, but that's okay. I don't think I mine that too much.
I missed out on that myself. I just like you to know as well. I was just a bit
fall asleep with the headphones on. And I had that as a dual window paints.
Fuck, uh, dual window paints.
I had to make sure I'm back at the bottom. It's like a split window paints. I'm already
clarified by that. Split window paints. Split paint, super.
I think Joel can tell us all about the old school window paint. Can't you, Joel?
Uh, me, me.
Well, you're so cagey about it. I got window paints in my house, of course, but, you know,
hey, I'm missing, am I missing something? Is there some kind of, I think you are.
I'm too on top of what you are. Okay. All right. Cool. Just asking. Yeah.
Don't feel bad, Klaus, too. I'm not sure I get it either.
Now it was an old, it was an acid LSD. Yeah, that's right.
It was a way they made the acid. Right. Yeah.
You, uh, they ended up, you, um, I remember right since I didn't do it,
you, uh, licked it off of the window pane that you, uh, it was the last part of
manufacturing it and ended up on a piece of glass. So you licked it off.
That's like they put it on paper. Yeah, one now on the like, uh, tattoos, like temporary tattoos.
Yet they did, they did that, but there was a method of, uh,
manufacturing it that used glass to crystallize the, uh, the LSD.
I remember like funny postage stamps and stuff.
Well, it goes farther back than, than me. We're talking about the 60s.
By the 70s, which is my era, they were, it was powder and, and then they would liquefy it
and put it on stamps. I was around in the 60s, uh, that was a grade schooler.
Well, Red, you and I are close to the same age, so.
Yeah, I'm so good. I won. I'm so square. I've never even seen acid.
I don't think I've even ever seen anyone on acid.
Well, I grew up in Southern California, so that's all a lot of stuff.
Closest I ever came was one day. It was hanging out with some friends at a skate park
down on, on the beach. And some dude came wandering up to me to say, man,
you know where the trips are at? That's as close as I ever came to it.
It's pretty much invisible, so I hear the only way you can actually see it is under a black light,
but I have no idea if that's true. Shouldn't you be able to identify people on acid
from all the fancy colors, emanating from them or something?
I remember one time when I was down in Cincinnati. I saw a guy, he literally looked purple.
One time in Cincinnati. One time at Bandcamp.
He went down there a few times.
By the way, hi, Rougi. Nice to meet you. Don't mind us.
Yeah, Rougi apparently got your press key to dock or death.
Oh, I guess I did get it to work. Now there's an echo for some reason.
No, that's like what?
Yes, she's on a tablet or something, so she might have some issues with communicating and whatnot,
but we should all welcome her with big arms and wide open faces.
Hey, I figured it out.
It's an Android. It's common Android. Red could tell you about it. If you're on an Android
device and you key it at the same time somebody else does, you will repeat their signals as well.
I'm going to put on a pair of headphones and see if that helps.
That will probably help a lot. I was just going to ask if it would do it even with headphones.
Red could all have headphones.
Okay, cool. I'm assuming you don't see the client list and not the client list, but like the other
people in the chat room on the Android app, or do you? You do see the other people and you
can see them queue up, but on my Android device, it's really hard to time when you queue up and
when you queue down as far as when you're like push the talk because there's no actual button to
just press and hold. She almost, she also may have a problem with Clot 2 because when I was listening
on my phone, I didn't hear Clot 2. I knew somebody was talking, but I didn't hear or see them, so
you may have a different codec or something. Why are you singling me out?
Well, he doesn't have a problem. He hates you, Clot 2.
And why is there a washing machine going on in the background?
Because he's been talking that. To be honest with you, I heard you earlier than in the day, but
tonight, when I was coming home, I couldn't hear you.
He heard us earlier and felt so dirty he had to wash his clothes, that's why.
That's not a laundry mat. He's actually the roving reporters from platform 9
and 3 quarters. That's what it is.
To the web, you need to go to bed, my friends.
If you're on the way home, Red, that's because you're on your Android, and yeah, if you're on
a different codec, you wouldn't hear somebody. Clot 2, are you on the cell or speaks?
I'd have to look. I don't know off the top of my head. I'll check and get back to you.
How do you find that out?
Since settings like audio output or something, it tells you, actually, here, audio input,
audio speaks is what I'm looking.
Yeah, it wasn't there. Some issues. I didn't know it was still an issue, but that Android
doesn't have speaks installed, right?
Yeah, if you drag quality far enough to the right, you will be on a cell, and if you drag it to
the left, you'll be on the speaks.
Oh, isn't this the same issue we had last year?
No, no. This was an issue that we had last year. The big issue that we had last year was that
the Slackware version of Mumble was compiled against the wrong version of Kelt, so we didn't have
any codex we could use. Slackware is perfect, right?
Well, actually, it is, but I saw you queue up so you can go ahead.
Oh, no, I have nothing to say.
Yeah, but I love you anyway, but you didn't, you didn't echo.
Yes, it's a lot improved.
I'm on headphones now.
It's fantastic. I just love the sound of your voice. I'm sorry.
Well, um, thank you. I don't know what to say.
Just consider it the biggest internet crush you've ever had.
You don't have to say anything.
The two words you're looking for is a restraining order.
That's probably about right.
If this is why you ought to consider ending on that, I know.
You must at least 200 feet from the sea block.
You think? Yeah, I'm just at the point where I'm considering whether I should call a night or not.
Now, I'm just going to do more than you say something stupid.
I always see something two hours ago.
Come on. I have heard this a web way more messed up than this.
50. I've heard you more way.
Yeah, it takes less. Tell me about it.
You, yes, yeah, but we have about 15 web quality.
You we have 15. Nobody needs to.
But we do want to hear from Sig Flop because she's just pure awesome.
Um, I have nothing to say.
It turns out that I have no copy of yes, please anymore.
Like, um, on all my servers on my personally email.
Like, I can't find a copy.
So if one of you, one of you guys has a copy, if you can email it to me.
It's in, uh, it's on Kray.
Invar members.
We wrote it. Thank you.
I appreciate it.
Giz, the ultimate backup tool.
Sig Flop, you wrote yes, please, didn't you?
Yeah, I did.
You tend to lose things, you know what I mean?
Yes.
Please.
There was a lot more than I've ever used and absolutely loved.
I'm thinking about updating it.
I have some free time here.
So I'm downloading it now.
No pressure, but that would be so cool.
Because yeah, I've actually missed it a lot as well.
I have missed it so much.
But you didn't you talk about the last time it was pointing at the wrong
folder or something?
Oh, um, I don't know.
I was, I think what happened was I, there were two things that happened like really close together.
And at one point it was, yeah, it was just some weird little
thing that you could fix by doing a patch in the code.
A quick said command or something.
But then at the, like right after that, I updated the, uh,
the thing that was driving unix porn.com.
That's a name drop.
And then it broke.
Yes, please completely.
So, so it was actually irreparable, um, as it stood.
Yeah, if I go ahead, Sig Flop.
I was just saying that's interesting under what it was.
Uh, if I remember correctly, it was, uh,
Klaatu switch servers from he sent something over to,
from one server to another, like switches hosting.
And then, uh, when he switches hosting, it switched the,
the actual path to where the files were uploaded.
And then after that, it's, uh, when he upgraded the, uh, the software,
then it broke everything.
Yeah, sounds correct.
That sounds right.
Hi, Mr. Gadgets.
I mean, the, the hosting thing, the gallery or whatever it's called copper mine,
I think is obviously open source.
So we could, if we need to dig around in the code and,
and get more information for you, Sig Flop, I'm sure, uh, I could do that for you.
If you tell me what to look for.
Oh, it's drunk right now.
But if you need to know anything, uh, I'll be more than happy to dig for it.
Okay, thank you.
I really appreciate it.
Yeah, while we're kind of given claw to the business,
have you seen on, uh, DistroWatch claw to this new
slacks version, Agile Lea Linux that, uh, uh, claims to have, uh,
dependency resolution in, in the, uh, package manager?
No, but I mean, what else is new?
I mean, that's, that's kind of like the whole thing about slap to get, right?
Yeah, it's going to,
I mean, I know a little bit, I mean, I know that slack builds.org recently moved some,
some flags, uh, that they did for listing requirements.
I wonder if this is an offshoot of that.
If someone is parsing that now and doing slack build dependency resolution,
or if it's just using slap to get, I don't know.
But yeah, I think, I think that's not so unusual at this point.
I thought, uh, slack builds removed their, uh, dependency listing.
Now they moved it to the dot info file.
And I thought it used to be in the reading.
I thought slacks was one of those live distros where you dropped in a, uh,
special package and it would run it.
So if it slacks and doing dependency resolution,
it could just be doing full packages.
Yeah, yeah, true, true.
Lord, do your levels low again.
That is also true.
I'm on a phone again.
I'm at work taking a slight break and well,
unfortunately, the mobile client for Android, the volume levels blow.
But the sound quality is pretty good.
Just fine.
Hey, Lordy.
As far as Android goes, there's an app called volume plus plus
that seems to work on any gingerbread,
any gingerbread version of Android and, uh,
any ICS version of Android.
But if you're into jelly bean, it doesn't work so well.
Yeah, I'm up on, uh, 4.2.1 CM 10.1.
Yeah, I'm running latest and greatest signage in mod for the Nexus S,
which is 421, I believe.
And the volume plus plus thing does not work at all.
I just went from ice cream sandwich to jelly bean and too many problems.
It really depends on which phone you're running it on,
as to what problems you are and how you can fix them.
I see, I'm running a Nexus S4G and I haven't quite gone up to jelly bean yet.
I'm still running ice cream sandwich.
When you do upgrade to jelly bean, you will notice a significant battery life increase.
Really, interesting.
And one thing I've noticed, it also depends on if you're running a single core or dual core.
I hit the previous phone I tried to run CM 10 on was a Samsung Galaxy Captivate
and that was a goddamn nightmare, but CM 9 ran perfectly on it.
Oh, see, I'm running the Nexus S and I don't have a problem at all.
And I'm running the latest nightly as of last night.
Yes, I'm running the Nexus S4G, which is a single core.
Yeah, I'm running a Motorola.
I'm jealous.
Well, it was cheaper than anything else.
I'm with AT&T and it was the cheapest phone with the same processor as the S3 and the
HTC one, whatever it is.
Well, I bought one of the Nexus 4's, but the market around here was so profitable for it
that I just sold it as soon as I bought it.
I'm so glad to be not running a Motorola anymore that I can't even tell you all.
Oh, man, I ran Motorola's or my work phones for, I don't know, the last 10 years.
And the company switched us out to some other phone and it's piece of crap.
So I bought a Motorola for myself and sometimes I wish I wouldn't.
I'm going to quickly enter up to you in a second and say that I am wasted,
absolutely wasted.
It's been a good evening to one and all, but I am going to call it a night.
That's now 6.3, I think, in less miles of this evening.
6.3, 6.3.
Good morning.
Go dunk your head and swallow before you lay down.
Yeah, we love you, man.
And split pains for the win.
Yeah, I thought we split pains for the win.
Yeah, it's been a good evening and happy new year to one and all.
I've been very proud.
I shall bid you.
Happy new year.
Take care, happy new year.
Happy new year, happy new year, happy new year, happy new year.
Thanks for coming in.
Good night.
I'm going.
Hey, K5, what are you running now, by the way?
Galaxy S3.
Okay, so that leaves me as the only person left from the UK now.
It seems.
Well, okay, I shouldn't send you a cookie, but I don't have one to give you.
Apparently, you're the only one who can do it as well.
Say that again.
I mean, from the UK, but some else and then something else.
I'm from the UK, but I'm in Croatia.
Shooter.
And it looks like a joke is ran away as well.
And I'm from, oh yeah, I helped out while community side really.
But the Medea Project, the Medea Alerts Distribution,
and I'll help with the quality assurance I so testing a bit now, I will, for Medea 3.
And I've been to, I'd like to pause down last year now, 2012.
Not for some of you, but it still is.
I'll go again soon.
I think and mental camp and yeah.
Hey, I'm speaking of Medea, I'm Medea.
Have they added more to the repos?
I tried it back when it was the first version of Medea and they didn't have a whole lot in
the repos. Obviously, it was the first version.
And I was just wondering how they were and they had they incorporated a lot more things,
or how was that going?
Oh yeah, I mean, there was, I mean, yeah, the repos were a bit lacking to begin with,
it was like, because when they forked for a man, man, man, man, man, river, they,
I mean, they put a lot of packages over, but they'll certain stuff missing.
And so they'll always be like, if this package is a man,
even it's missing, go and report as a bug and we'll probably add it.
But now it's, but now in general, I think it's more, it's more stuff in the repos.
And it's, it's moved in its own, it's also moved in its own direction more since Medea 1,
which actually became under life for on 1st December, saying that 18 months of support.
Medea 2 is more winsome direction, KDE 4.8,
GNOME 3, Medea 1 I GNOME 2, and then,
Medea 3 will be in March 20th, if you're supposed to be.
And yeah, so it's case, it's, I mean, it's better than it was to begin with,
when it comes to repos, as far as I know.
Nice. So by, I understand sort of exciting times from a G,
you're going completely community-supported, or am I thinking of Man Driever?
That's right, Medea is the one that went, it's all one St. community,
because it was focused by former developers, EGIT.
But a lot of Medea, I think, well, it was sort of like three companies that made Medea, I think,
and EGIT was one of them, and that was like all the most European developers,
the French developers, and they became, they got laid off and stuff like that.
And so a group of them and volunteer contributors decided that they would fork
Medea into what would be Medea. And then they were going to fork it off
Medea with 2010.2, and they realised that they did that a bit too old,
the packages in it when it came out, so they'd like developers, developers version,
Cold Run, and then, I mean, cook her for Medea, and forked that, and bet.
So I'm a Medea one, and yeah, it's all one St. community, and everyone is volunteer,
who sold non-profit and all that. And I mean, I found that about early on,
so like September 18th, the announcements of the fork, and I was there, and I thought,
I'm going to start the ISC channel for the UK, hoping that it would become more popular,
and all that. And I did that, and they said, I start my Medea social channel on three nodes,
right? And I had my IC presence, but I spent like a year just keeping now in it,
closely on the blog, on the mailing list, and stuff like that before I decided,
like I'm going to actually get more involved with this more officially, and then I'd
join the documentation team, which I haven't really contributed to,
because I realised I soon after it wasn't really, but I said I'd be on this team,
it wasn't really for me that, but I went and joined the marketing team, the marketing
communications team, and I became the, and how it fuzzed them, in Brussels,
in Belgium to beat some of the contributors and all that. I went and became the,
I won the votes on the mailing list, I'm here in the deputy leader of the marketing team,
and I was like, it was sort of thinking like me really, and so I had that position for a little
while, and I went to a local event in May, and I went and couldn't, I went and tried to
promote it to my local, like the local area in this area, right? And there's a video on YouTube
if anyone's interested, of my five minute lightning talk about magia, and it's just find
a magia lightning talk, and it was first time popper public speaking, and I thought, and it was
like really good, so I did that, hasn't people talking, came up to me, went find out more,
I went off to, so I did that went to old camp as well later, and tried to, I was going to talk
there, but yeah, and so, so yeah, I did, so yeah, well, can you say good morning,
Bigara, I need some bacon and cabbage, please. Who was that to? It was Ken. Would you be the
same thing? Ken Fallon, Bigara, I need some bacon and cabbage this morning. Hey,
thank you, thank you. I think with established K5 is not the fake
Ken Fallon. I should hope not. Now, something I heard about Mandriva was, they were getting ready to
rebase off of magia, is that something I misheard or what's going on there? Yeah, yeah, that's
right. Mandriva, you know, it was the whole idea that they wouldn't be around anymore in all that
kind of thing, and so a guy from Lee Boffis, who was involved with Charles, something, he was involved
with like, but apparently Lee Boffis, he joined Mandriva, but and so Mandriva is, they're not dead,
I mean, apparently there was going to be Mandriva 2012 version, but I haven't seen that, but
Moser, which is, they kind of used Mandriva, a Russian company. Actually, they,
these changes, if anyone's tried Mandriva 2011, the KDE changes like the menu, the Rose menu,
that was Rose, but so there's like Rose, Mandriva, but Mandriva is more, well, yeah, they've
just, they've based, they decided to base the version, a server version on magia, so the,
they've got a server version, which is based, I thought it was magia one, but apparently it's magia two,
so they've got, they've got a server version based on that, and they're more focused on
products now, and the confused thing is a little bit more, what the basically is sort of deciding
is, it seems, I might have had on the blog anyway, so basically deciding that they're going to
focus more on products or companies and stuff, so it could be like an education product, it could
be whatever, and then the community would be renamed to like open Mandriva, possibly it's all
on the blogs, a little bit unclear at the moment, but yeah, they've got, so they're based on Mandriva
before the server, I mean magia on the server, and as a result of this, they're like main security
guy, for example, he's now helping with the security team in magia, so that's good, and another
contributor who, from Mandriva, who does KDE, he's, well, he's helping with magia as well,
a little bit, so that's good again, so yeah there is, so yeah there's that.
Well Seb, I'd understood that the Rosa Desktop Edition was on Mandriva, but the Rosa server
was actually based on Red Hat. I'm not sure about that, but the Bozer is, there was, on the
maneuver blog, I think a while ago, it actually had like a diagram of spreading it bad, and
basically seems that Bozer, they, they've been sort of emboldened Mandriva anyway, they take,
they take packages off Mandriva Cooker, do you like development version, if you like,
derailing release, right? Magia's got Colvern instead, so the Rosa basically take packages off,
Mandriva's called Cooker, which I think must be still being developed, even though there
hasn't been actual Mandriva release recently, I assume so anyway, and they basically base
on Mandriva, so yeah, there's a Rosa, which is very similar, if you, if you download, say,
Mandriva 2011, and, or if there comes a later version, 2012 or whatever, actually nothing
of the tech preview of the Mandriva, of the Rosa 2012, or the Mandriva 2012 or something,
anyway, if you download one of those, compare it against the other one, so Rosa and,
my same Mandriva 2011, you'll see that they're very similar because of how they got the Rosa
changes and things like that, and so also when you compare Magia to another distribution,
and to be fair, he's based to kind of like, compare it against Rosa because
that's back as close as you got at the moment, to a distribution that's similar enough, but different,
and that was a good, that was a good, um, YouTube video that I saw saying that, that this,
did this by some sort of Australian guy, and that, that was a good video, yeah.
Well, I played with, uh, and never got to point of installing, played with the live
CD of Rosa a bit the first, uh, a desktop edition, they had some interesting ideas like, uh,
right now, the desktop, you'd have four desktop icons that might appeal to new users,
you had like your, your internet and your office, and blah, blah, blah, four icons right in the
middle of the desktop with, with some of your major subdivisions of applications, and that was
supposed to be, I think, their main draw, but the, the latest version that I saw, uh, posted
distro watch, looks like they'd, they'd left that part out from the screenshots. Yeah, um, Rosa,
uh, I think they've got two versions that was like one released, and then there was going to be
one for more business, something like that, but I, um, I tried one out from the live CD,
and came from the next magazine, but I tried something out anyway, a bit like that, and I thought,
yeah, this is good. I mean, I don't know that much about Rosa, but I, I do actually know who,
if I want to find out more about Rosa, uh, I know exactly who to go to when I see and talk to
about it, because I met Scott Fosden as well, and he, he's like, he was a guy who, um, who,
he, I think he wanted to like, really continue with Mandarin, uh, but he sort of boobies. I don't
know if he works for Rosa now anyway, or whatever, so, but he's been involved with Mandarin
Van Rosa, and he's, um, I'd say if I want to find out more about Rosa, I can just, I could,
I could just find this guy and I see and, and start chatting about it, and I've done that before,
because actually, when I, I should pull these ads here, I, I, I, I'm not, I'm not a long-term
Mandarin views. I didn't use Mandarin for many years, but I, I didn't go way back to the
Mandarin days. I actually started off with, um, Fidora Cool 2, wasn't he, 2004? And then, uh,
offline, I had a wireless device, it couldn't go online, uh, Fidora Cool 4, again, and then,
and then eventually I could, I got hardwired, and then I got, um, I went, some of you recommended
the bun two, so I was on the bun two since second release, quite happily until about, until 2009,
sort of like 9.04, gloomy patching, and so on, and I, and I tried to move away back to Fidora,
went and stole, and then I ended up on Mandarin, but I knew Batman D'Riva, because of, or Mandrake,
because of somebody I do at college, UK college, a bit different from America. He would say how good
it was at the time, and I would say how good a bunch was, I was 17, and you know, sort of like,
sort of better the distribution I should try out, so I went and tried out, um, and then eventually I
moved on, I did the whole, went down Distro Watch in late 2009, went through loads of distributions
with virtual box. Uh, Mandrake had some issues, but I ended up getting a development version,
working that would be 29, that would be the 2010 point zero release, the October 2009 release,
and I was really like that, so I know you people on, I see who, who were using Mandrake, and then the
whole, um, stuff about that Mandrake was having problems and all that, I knew about that, still
liked it, and then the whole, and then now some of the geofocus on from there, really.
Well I tell you what, Sam, sometimes I'd like an introduction to this, I, you know, from, uh,
that's on the Rosa team, because I don't know if you ever listened to it on Colonel Panic
Oddcast, oh, not a month ago, we had a discussion on Rosa, and whether they're positioned, uh,
to become the Red Hat of Eastern Europe and, uh, the Russian space, because they're, you know,
culturally linked in that area, that they, you know, they, they may have more of, uh,
uh, better some Pateco with the, with the users, so, you know, if you would, if you wouldn't mind
slipping me in address or something sometime, I'd like to set up an interview for KPO.
Possibly, yeah, if I have your details, but he, um, I mean, his accent is very, uh, it's very,
wait, yeah, it's very French and so, and it can be a bit hard to understand this by that way, but,
yeah, he's very knowledgeable, he's very, when he talks, I mean, he's very knowledgeable and, yeah.
So we've heard from, uh, Cornobio about his distro, Crunchbang, we've heard from Seb about Magia.
I happen to know that Reggie has a arch-based distribution that she works on. Are you there?
Reggie, can you tell us about your distribution? Oh, hey, thanks for the plug. Um, yeah, it's
based on a webcomic that I made and, or that I'm still making, I guess, and the distro is called
SadoS, and it's just, uh, the webcomics about like, just a depressed guy and his adventures and stuff,
and so, his operating system is called SadoS, because the operating system is sad, like he is,
and, uh, I started it out based on Exubuntu. So, uh, I'm not really a fan of Ubuntu or Ubuntu
based distros, so the only reason that I started it out based on Exubuntu is that it was really easy
to use the tool RemasterSys for basically cloning and installation, and, um, yeah, RemasterSys is
a really great tool, but it's only available for Ubuntu or Debian-based systems, and so eventually,
I, I found out about arch ISO, which is a sort of a similar tool for arch, uh, to take a pre-existing
distro or like your customized installation of an arch Linux, uh, of arch Linux, and turn it
into a live CD, except it's a little more difficult to use than RemasterSys, because it's all,
it's command line scripts, and I had some trouble with it at first, but I eventually got the hang of it,
and so I turned SadoS into a, an arch-based distro, and I feel like I'm probably missing some
important points here, but that's the, that's the gist of it. Well, what's the goal of the distribution,
because I know I think the thing I heard you were saying it was gonna be like friendly to new users
ish, like it was, it had like some hacking tools in it, and some art tools or something like that,
did that carry over into the arch version? Yeah, I used a lot of the same applications in the
Exubuntu version, as well as in the arch version, um, like, especially fractal graphics tools,
which I'm really into for some reason, so I installed like a whole bunch of those, and just uh,
a lot of tools that I just personally like to use for security or for graphics mostly,
I'm not that much of a security person, actually, like I'm interested in the topic, and so I did
install a bunch of security applications that I haven't used before personally, but that I know
are good, and as far as the goal of the district goes, uh, I mean, it was originally a promotional
tool for my webcomic that I was selling on USB sticks at the Alternative Press Expo on San Francisco,
which is a comics convention, it's an Alternative Comics Convention, and um, yeah, so it started
out as just a promotional tool, but I wanted to make it fun too, like, and so I printed out a whole,
like, some, a little bit of documentation for users to read and get some ideas for projects that
they could do on the operating system. That's pretty cool. How, how, how hard is this? I mean, like,
to me, it sounds really complex to get something to install exactly how you want it to install,
like how, how long do you think it took you or, or whatever gauge you could use to give us an idea
of how, how hard it is, or easy? Um, it took me hours and hours and hours, so I think it probably
took like a week of pretty much non-stop work to get the, the arch version going. The Expo
Intu version was a lot easier, because I just like went ahead and customized the distro and then
ran remastered system, and then it just worked with that, with arch ISO, it didn't just work.
So, uh, I had to, you know, jump through a bunch of hurdles, and eventually I got a success
message when I ran the command and terminal, and I was like, yes, but, uh, it was frustrating.
What's the workflow? Like, do you have to like, sort of install arch on a, you know, a clean
partition or something, and then you kind of clone that, or you just pull certain packages down,
and sort of like wrap that into an ISO or something, which of those are both.
Well, there's two different workflows you can use in arch ISO. One is called Relang. I don't know
if I'm even pronouncing that right, and the other one, I don't remember what it's called, but Relang
is the one that I used, because that's the one where you can copy your existing installation
basically into a new one, and I, uh, I think for a sec, I totally just lost my train of thought,
because I'm on the spot. Oh, you're talking about the two different methods of making the
distribution, either copying what you have installed or something else relaying. Right, yeah.
Wait, what was the question again? That was just curious. Yeah, I was just curious how you,
how you go about it. Like, where do you even start? Okay, well, you start by, oh, right, now I
remember what I was going to say. I installed it in virtual box. So like, yeah, you can start from
an arch installation that's on your hardware, but I don't have arch on my hardware, so
um, I just figured it'd be easier to do it in virtual box. So I ran through the installation,
and then I did what I wanted to the distro, like, I installed the packages that I wanted. I, uh,
changed the desktop. I, well, I added a desktop environment for one thing, and then I customized it,
I changed the themes, stuff like that, and then, um, downloaded the arch ISO scripts, and so
there's a few things you have to do to prepare before actually running the arch ISO command, which is
uh, what is it? I think it's make arch ISO. I don't quite remember what the command was. I,
I sort of just did this in this, like, flurry of a lot of intense time spent on it at once,
but I don't necessarily remember all the specifics of it, but, uh, yeah, totally. So let's see,
what else was there? Um, I guess I, I had to copy. Oh, so you make a, uh, like an overlay,
basically, for the new ISO, so you create, you create a directory for the build, and then you create,
a directory that is going to be mirrored on the new ISO that you're creating, and in that directory,
you can, uh, it's almost like a, like a shirute or something. Okay. Uh, it used to use shirute,
but not anymore, but you add files from like, um, you know, like configuration files of any sort,
you can add them to slash, et cetera, slash scale, and then they stay, or they're preserved when
you create the new ISO, and so after you copy over a bunch of files, then you run the make arch ISO
command, and then it generates an ISO based on that. And you can also, there's a package list file
that you can also edit. It's just a straight up list of packages. You can edit it by hand, or you
can generate it from the packages you already have installed. So I'm not sure what else to say about
that. That sounds cool. I mean, it sounds like it's definitely not trivial. That's really cool that
you, that you figured all that stuff out. I guess the obligatory question would be where can people
find it? Um, let's see. Well, there's a whole section on the arch wiki about arch ISO. Oh,
I mean, you're, you're just your shins, bro. Okay. Uh, it's on source forage. It's, uh, I think if
you Google sad OS like SAD OS source forage, you can find it or, uh, source forage.net slash project
slash sad OS. It's not mature by any means though. So be warned. Don't say that.
It's perfect. And let them find the bugs themselves. Yeah. Anyone's free to, you know, report bugs and
stuff. Don't worry. I would get, I got a quick question. I'm curious. You said you, you designed this
as a, mostly originally as a promotional, um, tool. I'm curious. I've never heard of a respin being
built as a, a promotional tool before. What was the, uh, idea behind that? I guess it's kind of a
weird idea now that I think about it. But, um, I, since I'm into Linux and I have a webcomic,
I put a lot of Linux references in my webcomic. And so like sad OS, the operating system is kind of
a big running theme in it. And I just felt like geeking out one day and I, I wanted to, uh, I was
trying to come up with like ideas for different things. I could sell at the comic convention where I
was also selling my books and USB sticks with the operating system. We're just, that was just one of
the ideas that I came up with. And I thought that would be really cool. And I wasn't sure how that
would go if anyone would actually buy them or not. But I just decided to give it a go. So I bought
like five USB sticks from, I think Amazon or something for pretty cheap. And I installed sad OS
and all of them. And I actually sold all five, which I felt was like pretty big accomplishment.
But, um, yeah, the, I guess the motivation behind making the promotional tool was just a random
geekiness, pretty much. And this wasn't even at a geeky conference, right? This is like a,
this is sort of a, like you said, a comic, well, I guess a comic convention's probably got a
crossover audience. Oh, yeah, I was expecting a really cool audience, for sure. And actually,
if you Google it, uh, sadOS on sourceforge.net is like the third link. You need SEO, Reggie.
Hey, guys, I don't mean to interrupt, but since it's now midnight in the mountain time zone,
and you and the USA and Canada, happy New Year's to those folks. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. Happy New Year.
Happy New Year. Happy New Year's, As. I'm here. Did somebody just say happy New Year's,
As? Happy New Year to you too. It's totally not mountain time. No, As is an Asmuth. So again,
not mountain time. Did I get that wrong? Oh, I'm sorry. I'm drunk. Mountain time is cracked.
Can I just ask a question about sadOS? How do you go about making an operating system sad?
Um, well, sorry, that come out like it's good job. I want to, I'd like to know what, what
you want to include. Live, live depression and live depression develop. That's great. Yeah,
but that's been 4x Ubuntu, and that's now something else. Thanks for the answer. I couldn't
think of anything witty, so that's good. Yeah, when it starts up, it doesn't play the Ubuntu
drums. It plays blues. Oh, nice. And just be real careful about including anything like a lib
razor, just a bad idea. Well, I had started speaking voice.
Does it run razor Qt? SadOS. Yeah, I'm sad. Runs xfc.
Wow, and I thought it would have a voice that sounded like Marvon the Paranoid Android.
It has a voice that goes like, welcome to sadOS, except with a lot of effects applied. That's
the startup sound. Nice. Is there a connection between sadOS and gladOS from portal? No, I did not
know about gladOS until after I made sadOS, and a couple of people pointed out the portal thing,
and I was like, whoa, and that's cool. That's funny. Yeah, it seems like between portal,
I mean, you're sort of the antithesis of gladOS and portal, and actually the Marvon the Paranoid
Android, I hadn't even thought of. So between those two, yeah, you're a pretty good company, I think.
I know there was a package that if you entered something incorrectly, and the insult package
or something that you can install on debut, that if you enter commands correctly, it insults you.
That's awesome. And that Etsy Skell, director, you're talking about that. I've recently learned
about that, and that is a really interesting setup. Yeah, I don't know that much about it,
but I think it seems like a pretty convenient way to customize a distro, and I've seen it in
remastered sys as well. What is it based? Does it just sort of lay out the defaults for config files
or something? Yeah, the default config files get copied into a user's home directory when
when the when their account is created on the system. That's okay. I've got one for you. Suicide
Linux. It's a it's a it's actually an app you can install on any install on any devian based
distro, and I think they may even have RPM versions of it as well. What it does is if you enter a
command, if you do not enter it 100% syntactically correct the first time, it wipes your root file
system. That's a good test for that's what you're going to say. It's a good test for for admins.
That should be the interview right there. Oh, right. Oh, oh. So does this application actually have
a lot of people downloading it and using it? I have no idea, but I know there's a YouTube video.
You can actually watch it in action on YouTube. You just just go to YouTube and do a search.
No, that's cheating. That's called cheating. NeoDragon is the term for that. You have to download it
and install it and live with it. Yeah, move all your kids' photos onto your PC first.
And delete all the backups everywhere else. Let's see, there's one problem. Well, actually,
you know what? I could probably find the source code for it and install it in Gen 2.
We're going to have to use it the hard way. So yeah, it would still work.
So who here is on Gen 2? Me. I'm on Sabia too. Oh, Sabia and I use that on one of my computers too.
Cobra 2 is on Gen 2, but he's maybe not so you lose it right now. I want a large box right now.
So you use Gen 2, Reggie? Yeah, I do. I'm using Gen 2 right now.
I've been using Sabian for maybe two years or something in Gen 2 for a little less than a year,
and I installed it myself for the first time just a few months ago, actually.
Yes, Sabia and I found out about a few years ago and I knew somebody was really into it and I see
it before and I went to the channel and I ran into the study on here, actually.
Anyway, I hide that out from my life, CD or whatever into a virtual scene or something.
The music, the music, and I was like, oh yeah, that's really good. But yes, Sabia is,
some of what's at one day's distro is it's there. I mean, if you went to Gen 2, you probably know about it.
If you're not, then you might know about it, but it's kind of it's there, but it's not really that
knowing it's, and I mean, it's got a lot on the live CDVD as far as I know.
Things got codex and all that as well. They're like mint, but based on Gen 2, I think.
I think it's not just based on Gen 2. The two are basically 100% compatible. You can take Gen 2
and there's a specific how to in the Gen 2 wiki to basically build it up into Sabian and
conversely, you can take Sabian and strip it down into a based Gen 2 install.
I've never quite understood how to mix Echo and Emerge and I know you're not supposed to do that
unless you really know what you're doing, but for various reasons, I've wanted to use Echo and
Emerge and yeah, it always ends up turning into a mess. Typically, you use one or the other.
It's not really a good idea to use both. Can I just, if I, I didn't know that much bad, but
Gen 2, you know, the idea is so complicated. It takes ages to install and all that,
you've got to set this up because you've got to set that up and all that. That's the idea,
general idea. I don't know much bad Gen 2 at all really, but Sabian's, I think, if my understanding
is correct, is basically somebody sort of made their own Gen 2 in the way, but they set things up
and then they then basically released it as Sabian. Is that right? If my understanding is correct.
Yeah, they basically just went ahead and did the extra steps and put it together into a nice install
disk, added a graphical package manager onto it, and just made it, basically ready to go out of the
box, whereas Gen 2, you have to set everything up manually. So they turned it into the same as
all the other districts? Yeah, basically. It's just Gen 2 made easier.
Basically, they took the source repositories from Gen 2 and actually built binary versions of
them and actually basically give you a binary built distribution instead of having to use the source
build version from Gen 2. Now, the thing with Emerge versus Equal, you can mix it to, but you do
it to be very careful and do it in a very limited case. For an example, at one point Emax wasn't
up to date in the Sabian repose, so I actually went ahead and pulled them from the Gen 2 repose using
Emerge, but I eliminated it to only that package because if you mix things across, like if you mix
libraries and stuff, you can have problems because of the date and time stamps on the binary packages
versus the repositories from Gen 2. Yes, that's a nice thing. If there happens to be one or two
packages that you can't find in the Sabian repose, you can still install using Emerge from source
from the Gen 2 repose. My problem is I've never been able to get Gen 2 to work. I always
craps out on some. Really? That's kind of a funny problem. I would almost be willing to bet that
it's your kernel compilation. Or some way you've set up either Xorg or some other, you know,
boot package, because I found, and now I have had issues in the past, but I have found after
doing a little research and reading through the Wiki and the forums, it's usually something I
did to screw it up. I'm sure it's something I've done, but I'll take art from the beginning
and make everything work. It's not the same, but as Gen 2, but in essence it is, you know,
you're doing it as a command. Well, the best equivalent is arch is binary Gen 2. So if you can get
arch to work, you should be able to get Gen 2 to work. The only difference is you have to actually
go in and manually configure your kernel. And once you get your actual kernel up and running,
shoot hell to steal the configuration from the arch kernel and build your kernel based on that,
and then run with Gen 2. Yeah, once you get the kernel configuration out of the way,
even with Xorg, it's just a matter of, I mean, not even anymore. It used to be, yeah, you still
had to manually configure Xorg, but nowadays, Xorg, you know, the latest versions of Xorg,
if you've got, as long as your video card is supported in 99.999999% of the time,
you just install Xorg and you don't even have to mess with the Xorg.config. It just auto
detects everything and gives you all the best settings right out of the box. So it sounds like
Fedora. Crazy thing about, yeah, the Xorg auto configuration is that that's something that I can
remember being developed within the time that I've been using Linux, which is weird to me. It seems
like, I know, right? Yeah. Clutchy, how long have you actually been on Linux? I think it must be,
as long as I've had my GNU World Order august, so like whatever that's been, I'm guessing seven
years maybe. I've been on Linux, now I've been on Gen 2 for four, almost four and a half years now.
I've been on Linux, and this will probably date me. There might be a few people in here who can
date me before that, but my first attempt at installing Linux was Red Hat 6, the original Red Hat 6.
Yeah, mine was Red Hat 4.2. Oh, you didn't.
I knew there was a few people in here who could probably date me, but not too many.
6.0, you're not even a Linux user anymore. You're a net BSD person with your
ugly open box desktop. No, actually, I installed WN on my main lap the other day because
I couldn't get X working on an open BSD on my, on my tough book for whatever reason. I just
could not figure it out, so I installed Debian. I'm really on a tough book.
Yeah, that surprises me. And actually, you're still using Window Maker, aren't you, SIG Club?
I've never really used Window Maker. I'm using it. So that was TWM or something, wasn't it?
Come on. FVWM. Oh, okay. Oh, my, I remember that.
Hey, I remember, I remember last year at OLF, one of the guys that gave, the guy that gave the
presentation on the tickle programming language, TCL programming language. When he was giving his
presentation, I noticed the god awful pink window borders and task bar. And I asked him,
is he running FVWM? And he said yes. Yeah, the default theme is horrible. And in my opinion,
I, I always change it. Richie, how long have you been online? Well, there's a low I would like to
think like four years. Okay, I would like to welcome the silver tongue to buyer brown into the
channel. Hey, hey, what's going on? Hey, what's going on, my man?
The late buyer round.
I'm sorry, gentlemen. Happy new year.
Happy new year to you too. Happy new year, man.
A SPR is rolling along, man. I've been listening on and off as I was going on, you know,
throughout the weekend. But, but anyway, back to what I was saying, when I installed, the first time
I installed red hat six, you could not get it up and running without manually configuring
X-Ort. There was no auto config. There was no nothing. You had to go in and manually configure X-Ort
before you could get a desktop. Period.
Well, I think I actually bought the first box of Mandric.
Nice. I could scare some people here because I actually had a set of infomagic CDs. That was
actually one of my first versions, which you know, the soft landing solutions infomagic CDs where
they took red hat and several different districts like Slackware and that and put them all on one
set of CDs. CD. This was three and a half inch blockies. I was going to save when I was back in
high school. Before I graduated from high school, friend of mine, I went over to his house. That
was when I was first introduced to Linux. His dad was running some one of the first two versions
of red hat at the time. And he had sitting on his desk. It was something like 30, 32, something
like that floppy disks was the original install desk for whatever version of red hat he was running.
It was either one or two. So what did you do after that, Rick?
Okay, my infomagic CDs were from 1995.
Anyone in here run BIOS ever? BIOS? Yes. I did once a while back.
Heard of high two? Yes, actually. I was quite interested in that one. I just haven't
had a chance to ever actually try it out. Okay, versions on the infomagic CDs real quick.
Slackware 3.0, red hat 2.1, Debbie in 1.0. Yeah, it looks like you did us.
Nice. Yeah, BIOS, I always called it. Yeah, that was supposed to be like no popular one or whatever.
And then, Hayaku OS, whatever it's called, there was, I mean, again, somebody I know when I see
he, somebody else, he would be, he was, he's into Linux, but he would always go on about this
Hayaku OS, I might be saying it wrong. And how great it was and all that. And even in the
alpha or the beta, it was, and you can see on the site and stuff. And it was just like quite
feature-complete and it could do quite a lot of apparently. And I'm thinking this is quite
well-go when you started saying this stuff. So I assume now it's pulling and moved quite a
bit since then, actually. But again, it's one of those distributions that, I mean, I'm sorry,
operating systems. It's not a, it's not a Linux. It's a, yeah. And it's more an operating system
that I would want to try out in a virtual box at least, I expect at some stage. I just haven't,
I said I'm done yet. Well, is anybody, did anybody ever run Unix on a, on a desktop?
Not on desktop. I can say yes to that because back when I first started into Linux,
one of the, one of the companies that I went to work for was running SCO Unix. And so to learn the
system, they, I actually installed it on a desktop workstation and played around with it. Yeah.
I've found, a part of Linux was running the old drag.
I think it was a computer that had it all right. Wait, say that again.
Well, part of Unix was running the old drag. It was SCO Unix Five.
What were you doing with it? I think I'm a bit too young to have run Unix on the computers.
And that's size one, B. I mean that can't be. It was SCO Unix Five. It came with the CDE.
Desktop environment and had early KDE one point, whatever apps that you could add in from the CD.
And you're love for it? Yes, no. Well, it was definitely a rock solid system. I can definitely
tell you that. But as far as for the company that, that no created SCO Unix,
yeah, there's not a whole lot of love there because they're the ones that are still trying to
throw lawsuits at companies like Novel and such for supposedly infringing on the Unix
copywriter. Anyway, it's the big long story. You've probably heard about it. Yeah, you don't
like to have any ground? I don't know. It wasn't the first company to ever come out with a version
of Unix, so I don't think they have any ground. Besides that, Novel actually bought the rights to Unix,
so. Well, okay, SCO San Chaser, you say no? Well, I was going to explain with first, let's go back
up here. The company that developed SCO Unix was actually the Santa Cruz operation that is not
the same as the SCO company that started all the lawsuits. It actually changed hands several times,
and it was a whole different set of management and ownership that started all that stuff.
That's Santa Cruz California. Yeah. And in fact, the Santa Cruz company that created the original
version of SCO Unix, they were actually backed by Microsoft. Now, the other thing much to my,
well, in the company that actually started the lawsuits that basically became SCO was actually
Caldera. And much to my shame, I actually had a copy of Open Linux Base 1.1 from 1997.
Yeah, yeah, buyer. If you were to go and install version SCO versions 3, 4, and 5,
when you pop in the install disk and it comes up the boot screen, you know, it comes across SCO version
whatever, 3, 4, or 5. And it says Copyright, Santa Cruz blah blah blah. And right below that,
it says Copyright, Microsoft. Oh, really? Santa Chaser, you said to your shame, explain?
Well, basically Caldera was the company that ended up starting turning around and suing everybody.
That was the company that actually bought out SCO or Santa Cruz operation and then turned around
started suing everybody. Yeah, it wasn't the original company. It was
and needed because it was the original because back by Microsoft, it was
say that again, because back by Microsoft, it had no value or what are you saying?
No, no, no, no, no, but it's the later company that took over it. They started throwing around
those lawsuits so there's no love there. The original company that started SCO.
I have no qualms with them. I mean, like I said, SCO Unix itself is awesome. It's a
rock solid. Never had any problems with it. Some of the clients that we supported with SCO Unix had
been running it for 12 years without issue. Uh, Santa Chaser, your rebuttal? No, there's no rebuttal.
There's no rebate debate here at all. Oh, yeah, no debate. I was completely agreeing with
it. I mean, Linux is not Unix. GNU is not Unix. By definition, by or it's not, nobody
took SCO's code and created Linux from it. Even if they did, the school released it under the
GPL. So what was the problem? Yeah, Linux is, well, yeah, the DPR Unix like us, you know,
as they say, or we say, and then GNU is, yeah, it's the same thing and her didn't.
Herd would have been what we would probably be using right now, really, if almost first, if,
Linux hadn't come along, really, but yeah. Yeah.
Gone. No, no, no, no, you go. I was just going to say around 2003 or 2004, my freshman year at
college, I took a computer science course and we were running some version of Unix on our
computers in the computer lab. And I didn't know the first thing about Unix at the time. So I
don't remember anything about the desktop environment or anything, but I was just wondering if anyone
here knows like what version of Unix might have been used on college campuses at that time.
Well, it could have been no vet. Maybe no virus. Yeah, it could have been
Solaris. Solaris was very popular in college campuses. Yeah, yeah, probably was. It was very
popular with like engineering and stuff like that. So in fact, the college that I finished my
associates degree at Mount Wachusa Community College, for the longest time they ran Solaris servers
until, let's see, until about 2004, 2005-ish, they switched all of the Solaris servers over to
OpenSusa. Well, I remember we first got Unix at K-State back in the 80s,
mid 80s, and I purchased AK&T version and I don't know if they actually got the digital code
files or if they actually got printouts and had to enter everything from scratch. I kind of
get the impression that they got the printouts from other college and spent like a weekend just
typing everything in by hand. They might have used cards. Maybe. Did any of you guys ever
programmed with punch cards? Yes, sir. I missed the whole number and cobalt in 1975. Yep.
With that close, I want to drop off. Have you had a good New Year? Happy New Year and good night.
Happy New Year. Happy New Year. I was born in 1978, so the earliest thing I ever dealt with with
were the five and a quarter inch floppy's. Did any of you punch card guys ever take somebody's
program and shuffle the last four or five cards? Oh, he heard me. Somebody did it to me.
Oh, that's that. That is just mean. We used to program CNC machines with those
and the trick was always to shuffle the last few cards just after you spent four hours
machining something and then boom! Well, we had a guy in one of my earliest programming courses
that I took back in college. He was probably in his, I want to say late 60s,
and he was going back to college just because he wanted to update his knowledge.
He told this story about how back when he was programming, it was on computers that took up
an entire auditorium and he had to walk along and flip the switch on and off for each bit.
You know, and the programs that he was doing were missile trajectory programs that the
military was testing out. And he was in how he was completely finished with one version of this
at one point and he was running across the hall with his notes. He had written down everything
and he had, I mean, this wasn't punch cards, obviously, but he had written down everything on
several sheets of paper and running across the hall, he bumped into one of his colleagues. All
his notes went all of the floor and his colleague picked it up and gave it up to him. He just ran
off not thinking anything. He got there, entered when he read, read off of the sheet and it was
completely wrong. Didn't work the first time until he realized he sat down, shuffled it around
and figured out that he headed in the wrong order. So I can completely understand that.
Not the same as punch cards, but pretty bad, especially when you have to do every single bit
up and down, up and down, up and down, up and down. Well, long as he didn't,
nuke trickle, spockier or something. Fortunately, it was just, you know, a test program. So
no missiles were fired. Yeah, the last program I wrote in that class in high,
that was in high school. The program played music on an AM radio that you sat on top of the computer.
And the instructor, the instructor thought that was the neatest thing he'd ever seen.
What did he set up sitting on a computer? You'd take and put an AM radio, you know,
a little pocket AM radio and set it on top of the processor. Now this processor was an NCR-100,
which was about the size of a chest freezer, which is the equivalent of about half of what's on
your phone. And it would play music because of the circuits within it, the switching and the
different binary switching, it would play, you can make it play music. And I read an article
and figured out how to make it send a signal that would be a higher note, lower note. And I made
it play. If I remember right, it was something like Mary had a little lamb. Why didn't you choose
Daisy? Wow, cool. Because Mary had a little lamb was the first one used by Alexander Graham Bell,
surely. Yeah, but Daisy, come on, how sings it? It was hot even, was that movie even met back then?
Oh, yeah, it was. Yeah, it was. Yeah, so why didn't you use Daisy Daisy?
That's too long ago, Ken, and too many, too many bears ago. Okay, the next time you remember
this story, I wanted modified, so you played Daisy Daisy. Never let the truth stand in the way
of a good story, my friends. That's still a pretty geeky story. I got to tell you.
Of course, now they have, now they have scripts that you can, you can, if you hook up
enough floppy disk drives, you can have it play different types of music using the,
using the frequency at which the floppy disk drive motor is moving.
You guys ever seen that on YouTube? Yeah. Star Wars, something like that.
Yeah, they do the Imperial March. There's one for like the theme song to moral combat.
Somebody else did like, something like the Phantom of the Opera, Ghostbusters.
There's a you name and it's up there.
And I'm more interested in the War One League, quadcopters come in and play instruments.
I was always a fan of Back to the Future done by Art Attack.
So which is the next countries to go? I think it's California.
Yeah, it's, I think it is. Yeah, we can pull it, we blew off mountain time, didn't we?
No, we had no, no, we didn't. Yeah, we still have California and then Alaska.
California, here we come. I might make California, but that's about as far as I can.
Well, I'm gonna be here all night because I'm working. And so,
wait, where are you from? KT Cape, well, everyone name is John. Yeah.
I'm in South Carolina. Yeah, I should have read your name properly. So about that.
That's all right. But I heard the start of it and I worked my normal nine hours and I'm old.
I can't, I can't hang as good as some of y'all can. I've been to bed. I have no, I have no fear.
I was, I stepped out of here yesterday. Yeah.
It's amazing that there's no like Java or sorry, not Java, HTML5 or something that's tracking
the time zones as they go across the world. You would imagine that with all the Google gizmos and
stuff, Google doodles that they do, that the wood have done that one, that this is the time now,
and the next one up is this and the next one up is that. Yeah, I tried real hard. Can you
got my email that we could map the followers of Henry Patrick Riley, but I don't know if that
wouldn't make more people mad than what it was worth. You could map them. Sorry, no, I didn't get
what you said. I sent that to you and okay, oh, we could go. I talked about there was the
Google iMap or the iMap project, whatever, I was going to rent that and then I found out that
there was a site out there that would, I couldn't do it because I'm not hit, you know,
don't have the Henry Patrick Riley, but you could map all the followers. If they provided,
of course, there are real addresses. Yeah, I don't think that's something this HPR would be
would be central to HPR's vision, mapping its followers. Is it really only two Europeans here,
so can myself and then as everyone else from America now, HPR is probably out looking because
we speak. Oh, no, not hardly. We've several, a lot of people from Europe and Australia, so
yeah, I know, but I sort of went in sort of at the moment and last say it last hour, if you like,
or whatever, or however, if you want. There'll be more coming online shortly. Oh yeah, probably.
Happy New Year. Happy New Year, everybody, and then run downstairs to talk to strangers on the internet.
Say that again. They'll all wake up and go, happy New Year, everybody, and then run down
stairs to talk to strangers on the internet. Oh, we're not strangers. Yeah, we're just strange,
but a booch. Oh, man, I can't hurt you. I can't make coffee, folks, because if I do, I wake
everybody up. I want to know how much of a booze crisis thistle web has caused by, you know, being
up and as drunk as he was. Oh, man, he wasn't a patch on how drunk he was last year. Come on.
He was, he was pretty, uh, pretty tamed tonight. Pretty loosened, uh, loosened, but I thought
he was going to boo him. I thought Pokey was going to boo him, but I don't think Pokey had the
heart. Yeah, he wouldn't be in the same without festival web, I'm sure. I mean, this is my first
time, but I've just been to festival web in, in terp bites when he used to do that, and then
cribbing. So I went on that episode with him as well. I should have probably mentioned
doom, uh, but you're a special one. So yeah, I know, I know what festival web is, but, um, he's,
I tend to agree with his stuff, actually, that he doesn't say in those things, but I'm talking about
Linux here. Um, yeah, he was, uh, he's, he wouldn't be in the same on this without him probably.
Oh heavens, no, it wouldn't be. Hey, Fifty, how many times did you pass out in that last
show we record twice? Uh, could possibly be. I think it was two or three times.
Uh, oh, I don't think it was quite that bad, but, uh, I, I jumped in at the end and did my thing.
I don't know. I don't know if I took too much time, uh, you know, Spork said, oh, yeah,
that sounds like a good review. And then I took advantage of it.
No, I'm talking, the Spork wasn't even there. I must have passed out more than I thought.
Well, I'm the last actual recorded show. Do you mean last Friday? Is that one in the show?
Yeah, I'm talking. Well, he was recording it to play it. Uh, I think he was going to put it on
HPR. I'm not sure. Oh, yeah, the impromptu show. Yeah. Who knows?
It was twice for sure. Maybe three times. I didn't know what I didn't do much better last Saturday,
either. We were, you know, we were just hanging, hanging out in the KPO channel. We didn't record
wells, according for a while, but I don't think anything's ever going to come of it. But, uh,
yeah, I was, I was kind of let before we started, because I was sitting around and watching a movie.
And I, you know, I came home strong, I'm going to eat dinner while I'll start the movie first.
And well, open a beer first. And I opened another beer, another beer. And I was, I was okay
when we started, but it was like, it didn't, it didn't take too long after we started,
even though I did eat dinner that, uh, I was like, oh, man, well, I'll just lay down here for,
you know, a couple minutes, nobody'll notice. And man, I was gone.
I just wanted to show that our, our brother across the sea wasn't exactly the only one around here
that drinks a little bit. No, I've heard of you, uh, intoxicated, uh, podcasters.
Well, I have to tell you, I've been keeping up pretty steady this evening, but, uh, if you guys
aren't complaining, I guess I can't be doing too bad. I don't know if we want to go through all
the inebriated podcasters, especially with the last few months. I'm inebriated just to run that out
there. Sweet. I'm going to look at where I would be. Well, I'll throw out there. I'm going to attempt
to make it to the end of the podcast, but, uh, no promises.
Well, uh, it's in, let's see, yeah, four hours in a bit, the end. So, yeah.
Is this all thing going to be released as a podcast from HPR?
Yes. Yeah. The parenting, there's something about how it would be in, in three hour episodes,
this week and next week, so the whole thing, yeah.
Well, I think his original idea is one hour to time. No, no, no. That would be 24 episodes.
That would be a whole month's worth of shows. Actually more than a whole month. That'd be like five weeks.
So you're going to put it out all in one big chunk? No, it'll be three hour chunks.
So it'll be, yeah, it'll be whatever I feel like.
Can't feel free. Yeah, really. No, it's free. Whatever it is, whatever it does.
It comes in a month. There's nothing. There's no new shows in the queue. We'll be,
we'll be 15 minutes of the time. Five. Did someone say something about crashing audacity?
Yeah. How have you had audacity crash on you while you were making podcasts before?
Usually, nonetheless, I'm doing something weird, like with multi-tracks, but these are going to be two gigabyte files, so.
That's not that weird, though. That shouldn't, that shouldn't matter. Or you mean multi-track recording or something?
Yeah, when I'm doing, um, says 8, 9, 10 multi-tracks on the tank, just moving around and stuff.
I've had that many on this fine, that that's not weird.
So it's got to be something else. Consistently.
I've had all the year-alth on. Go ahead. There we go. I've had it go down on me on a P4, just me recording.
Yeah, but I mean, these mysterious crash instances and it's usually like, because when you start,
when you stop recording and then start again, it automatically starts a new track,
so I wonder if that's part of the problem. Yeah, that's what always does it to me.
If I have to hesitate in the middle, if I did it all the way through on the P4, I think it was okay,
but if I stopped and restart, boom, I'd bring it down.
You guys need to stop by the slacker media showroom, and I can set you guys up with a machine that'll just
keep recording and recording and recording. Be like magic. What's the showroom?
It's my brick and mortar store. It doesn't exist.
Oh, it's in some hallway and it's a police can. Yeah, it's in the hallway.
It's in a stairwell somewhere. Yeah, yeah. It's me in a laptop in a stairwell.
Or maybe a locker room. That's why the machine's out of the lab being disappearing.
Yeah, yeah. It's those dang kids, man, they're sneaking out with them in the middle of the night.
Reggie, did you check your temp directory? Because some people were talking earlier about
they realized that their audacity crashes were basically tied to the fact that their
slash TMP was filling up. Oh, that's right. You mentioned that. I didn't check it because
it was in that I realized that I needed to upgrade Audacity. So I've since upgraded it to 2.02,
I believe, whichever version you are running. And I haven't used it to make a podcast since,
so I'm not sure if the issue would be replicated or not. That will be interesting to find out.
Let me know. We'll do. Not that I care about your sat by on distro.
Yeah, I still got to come up with another podcast to even make, and then I'll make it,
and then I'll let you know if it crashes. Perfect. And you'll submit the podcast to HPR.
Yeah, I could submit my podcast on sat OS to HPR. That one's a fairly decent one.
Yeah, I enjoyed that one. Can you pay for your RSS? Your website RSS and today,
Mumble Chat, please. Sorry. Can you paste your podcast details into the Mumble Chat, please?
Just so we have them. Oh, yeah, sure, just a sec. The Mumble Chat is passing for sure,
or you can just read it and we'll write it down. No, we won't.
Paste it into the chat, and then I can copy and paste into the show notes.
Control freak. No, I like show notes. Platoon, unlike some people here. Points.
Hey, I'm getting, I'm getting very good at show notes for my show.
Yes, for your show. There you go, Apple Winxer in the show in the Mumble Chat area.
Thanks for what's on Jesus. Hey, Claud too. I don't know if you ever caught my suggestion,
but what about just putting up a wiki for your old show notes and letting, you know,
your four users contribute to that or your four listeners contribute to it?
My four listeners are lazy. They won't ever do it.
Hey, I got, you know, text to, I mean, speech to text. That's all I do. I just run it through that
when I need something. Do you really? No, I ain't kidding.
Wow, that's interesting. Work sometimes. Sometimes it doesn't.
It's actually, it's like, you're echoing through Red Dwarf droid.
He must not, he's got to be on voice activated, and his speakers are sending off his,
his microphone. I'm using the droid. That's why I didn't plug these earphones back in.
I said, I resemble that remark, Claud too. I'm one of those four listeners.
I'm also one of those four listeners. You know, there are a lot of four listeners
for, you know, more than that. Yeah, but no one's denying the names of four.
I guess. Groups of four. I'm one of those listeners.
It's a fractal. You get, you get more complexes. You reduce a number.
Fractals are cool. They're amazing. I really want to check out some of the tools that you
were talking about. I think it was in possibly that article. Is it Zeyos, or am I making that?
Yeah, Zeyos is one of them. Geno Fract 3D. I don't think I mentioned that being the article,
but that's a really cool one. Sorry, Geno Fract 40, and Fire FY RE for Peter De Jong,
De Young maps, or whatever. I don't know if those count as fractals. I think they do,
but it's a cool program in Cosmic, UOS, M-I-C for making fractal flames like the electric
sheep kind. It's pretty cool too. This is, here's the story of life, more or less. So I wanted a fractal
for this movie project that I was working on. This is like probably five years ago now,
and so we went to this. We were dealing, the company making the film was dealing with this
effects house, and no one had a lot of money, so it was all independent and stuff. So we
went to this effects house. We were like, we want some fractals. We want you to do your computer
magic and generate some fractals, and they kept sort of like trying to pretend like they didn't
know what fractals were. I got to find some computer program to generate fractals for us,
because I knew that it couldn't be that hard. I knew it could be something that computers could
do, and it took me like literally, I mean, that project was long ago finished, and then later I
just happened to get into Linux, and then finally I discovered all these really cool fractal
generators, and I was like, where was this like five years ago? Yeah, totally. Mandel Bulber is
another really cool one. Yeah, Linux is great for fractal art, and evolve a tron. Also, it's not
strictly like a fractal program. I don't know if it really has anything to do with fractals,
but it's a generative art program, and it's really cool. That sounds very cool. I mean, the name
sounds great. Yeah, you click on, like it gives you a selection of different images that have
been randomly generated, and you click on one, and then it generates more based on that image,
so it's really neat. Nice. Yeah, I took an electronics class recently, and we made one of the
projects in the class was to make this little synthesizer, and your touch actually completes the
circuit, and it has this really unstable apparently amplifier chip in it. I forget the serial number.
Apparently, it's a really well-known chip, and it would generate obviously the sounds,
you know, based on you completing the circuit, but every sound was like different, and I asked
the teacher if it was like, were we achieving true randomness, and he said no, but it was really
an interesting way to just, you would play around with this thing, and it would just make these
weird noises. It's basically circuit bending, I guess, but it was, I wish I knew what was going
on inside of that chip to create these variations and sound. That sounds super cool.
Rudy, do you have a link to some of the practical art that you've created?
I haven't created all that much myself. I could post a link to one thing, which is a desktop
background. Why isn't that on Unix port? Well, you also have a POV-grade retrace that you have
out here on your one of your websites. I'm just looking through your websites.
Oh, you saw the POV-grade stuff. Yeah, at least one of them.
Cool. Yeah, I don't know POV-grade very well at all. I'm fascinated by it, but I don't know the
language. I mostly just like take preexisting templates and experiment with them and change
parameters and stuff and see what I get until I get something cool. I'll go ahead and post a link
to that mandal boblor art that I made for a desktop background in a sec when I find it.
I just did a little searching. I had thought that I remember to make a fractal program on Commodore 64
and there was one. Yeah, I mean, it seems like something that would be around forever,
you know, like since they figured out that computers could do math, it seems like someone would be
doing fractal programs. I remember there was one in basic way back because when I worked for
Radio Shack, I remember typing it in to one of the trash 80s. That was the color, color computer.
Nice. So really pretty fractals. Well, I remember one of my friends in college with
Amiga. He was Roy in the Ray Trace, which is a totally separate thing, but I'm he would run it on
the graduate server three beat five overnight and then bring it back into Amiga.
Oh, wow. What's this? So this is done in K, K. Bolber, you said.
So K. Bolber is the name. It was done in mandal boblor. Okay, got it.
This is a nice picture. I like this. Cool, thanks. That looks quite organic, doesn't it?
Yeah, I know. It's like, yeah. Rough is something that's been eroded. So it's kind of looking at
the image that's on KDE look that's in the show notes. Any time for California.
Fireworks are starting here here in Portland, Oregon. Oh, is it your time's there next? Yep.
Six minutes. That's kind of funny that you mentioned fireworks,
as I just now realized that we I didn't hear any fireworks here at all.
I wonder if people missed the new year here. Are you in a suburb?
No, not really. I mean, no. I wouldn't say so.
Yeah, because you're in an industrial estate platoon.
Here's some people do it a bit too early sometimes. Maybe the day before or the night before
a little bit or in the evening, 20, but sometimes, yeah, too early a bit. Wow, that is a
really cool image. Surely they just weren't shooting automatic rifles into the sky.
That's what it sounded like here. Of course, you know, we're in the south. We like to blow stuff up.
Well, here, for some reason, there are some people around here blowing off fireworks like two or
three hours before the midnight hour. Yeah, that's the kind of thing I'm on about.
Basically too early, but for some reason, maybe.
I'm not close enough to Urban to remember any fireworks on New Year's Eve. I have seen a few
from the county fireworks show from the cab of a combine, because we're still cutting wheat at
that time, which is kind of interesting. Is that what those things are called? The cut wheat,
they're called combines. Yeah, because it was a combine of the old header barge,
which would cut the wheat off in a binder, or rather a thrasher, a thrasher.
You've seen the pictures, the old thrasher's tractor was about driving the old thrasher.
So it was a combine of the header barge, and then later it was a binder. Between the two,
there was the header that would just slice everything off, and it would trundle it up to a wagon,
where the guys would standing on the wagon would physically grab bundles of wheat and wrap
twine around them. And then when they got to, at some point, they would stack these bundles into a
shock. And then later you had the binder, which would do all that automatically, usually pull
behind the tractor. The first one's maybe pushed by horses, but ground driven, and it swaffed wheat
off right at the ground, and you'd have all these stalks, and it would make these bundles. And then
you pick up these bundles and put them into shock, and then you would throw the bundles into
into the thrasher. And then you had the combine in the late 20s and early 30s, originally pulled
by a combine, or originally pulled by a tractor, and then by the 40s, late 40s self-repelled,
that you would have the header platform that would just cut the heads off the wheat,
and then do the freshing, you know, all in the street, and then you would pour out
just grain into the truck. Okay, can I interrupt you there just to stop the recording first?
And I would also like to welcome Los Angeles, San Francisco, San Diego, Seattle.
There's two minutes, isn't it?
Isn't it two minutes? No, it's now.
Mike Clark says it's got two minutes and I would do it in two minutes. Fine, fine.
Be stickles. One minute or two minutes.
I think it would have been made for cleaner audio if we'd just all sort of conceded to agree
that Kim Fallon was correct, and then we could have maybe adjusted in post or something, or not
cared. Yeah, nobody won't take me two minutes to finish reading the big line. No, no, you've ruined it. Thank you very much.
30 seconds. No, forget Tijuana. And let's see what what Canadian province is up there before Victoria 40 41 42.
Well, Victoria is not a province in this city.
Are you JIC that I'm sorry are you JIC that net is I've never seen table.
Happy New Year. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. Happy New Year to Los Angeles.
And here goes Seattle. Sad to say Las Vegas Portland Oregon, Canada Vancouver white horse, Tijuana, Mexican and particular.
Yeah. Yeah. Happy New Year to that. And that Pioneer to VUGE formula was better.
Yeah. He's been about it over the fireworks. Some of it. Happy New Year sport.
All in the world that I see you maybe.
Or Hacker Public Radio.org for such,
org will get you the org feed streamed.
48 hours, one minute.
What are you doing with your stuff?
See y'all, ham radio is good for something.
That's nice.
I was listening to, I used to have the shortwave radio,
this grunting shortwave radio that I was listening to one day.
And I was listening to, I think 10, like 10 megahertz
or 10 kilohertz or whatever,
a time station.
And in between the time, people would jump in and talk.
And they'd all silence like cockroaches for the time.
And then they'd talk afterwards.
It was, it was really brilliant, just.
No, it's, that's how they do it.
That's the National Bureau of Standards
and they will give different types of forecast
in between the time signal at the, at the top of every minute.
Yeah, it sounds bloody.
It sounds bloody gorgeous to be honest with you.
I really like the sound of it.
Was that a wind-up radio sickflip or no?
It was three AA batteries.
OK.
I have a wind-up version, or I have a wind-up grunt dig.
But I don't think it takes batteries,
so I could only listen to it and like, you know,
as long as I could charge it from the wind.
Yeah.
Well, what y'all heard, I actually
can run this thing off of solar cell.
That's cool.
I would like to continue my ban on all talk of,
Ham Radio's, please.
What?
Yes, this ban is now in place.
His parents were killed by Ham Radio's.
Well, I think, no, he's sorry, I didn't know.
His parents were killed by amateur radio people.
No, I can't say it's far.
I can't say it's an interesting hobby, I guess.
And I have enough hobbies.
Thank you very much.
I think I can try to save even another topic.
No, actually, what I want is all the Ham Radio's,
like everybody in Hacker Public Radio
seems to be in Ham Radio's, and I still haven't gotten
an episode in from two Ham's either side of the continent
or in two different countries talking to each other.
How awesome would that episode be?
So no talk of Ham Radio's until I get that episode.
Thank you very much.
I'm not up to Ham Radio.
I think you got to wait till Fab figures out how to do Ham.
Have you heard of him?
I'm Lord.
Have you heard of him?
Please, no.
Have you heard of Earth to Moon to?
What is it?
Earth to Moon to Earth communication?
E-M-E-M-E-M-E.
Yeah, that's pretty wicked.
I bounced signals off of, sorry, Ken,
but I bounced signals off of a meteorite.
We interrupt this broadcast to bring you in useful.
Can we talk about number stations?
No, I'm only joking for a head.
No, I bounced signals off.
I have never bounced signals off the moon.
Love to try it, but I don't have the equipment
or the money to do that.
But just one time I need that is such an awesome hobby.
That you're sitting in your room, right?
And you're bouncing signals off the moon.
It's, come on.
Sometime I need to put you guys in touch with her
hands with my buddy, all his, you know,
he doesn't need to do any digital stuff.
All his, you know, all his sets are,
he collects sets from the 40s.
Oh, that's, that's big.
There's some people that just love that stuff.
I'm all modern stuff now.
And we went quite again.
And we go, well, we go, just in the flowers,
absolutely.
Yeah.
Sorry, I'm only quiet because I'm working, so.
Yeah, I'm encoding the first two days, as in Mondays,
as in the New Year's Day show for Hack-A-Poverty Grady.
So my machine is churning away here.
I was in 2012, the first three hours.
Yeah.
So that's the wildfile is 1.1 gigabytes.
Truncated silence from four hours down to three and a half.
The wildfile, do you say?
Wow.
1 gigabyte.
Do you say 1 gigabyte for that?
Yeah, 1.1 gig.
Wow.
Nice.
That's how you don't mean to say,
can you don't mean to say you're going to post it
on the right day?
Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
Wait, when will we?
When people download it, is it going to be 1 gigabyte?
That's hot.
No, no, no.
It's just a ball band now, anyway, yes.
But I mean, it'll have, it's encoded to MP3, Og, and Speaks.
So this might be one for those of you who are short of bandwidth.
You might want to listen to this one on Speaks.
Is it audacity or you're doing it in a lamp forever?
No, if you go to the link that I will be posting shortly
into the chat, there's a, the scripts are all on the tutorials.
OK.
Which we're working on now.
The scripts itself, they've done quite a lot of work.
Corba 2, and it's given a lot of help.
Actually, I can't even remember all the people
who contributed little hacks and stuff.
And it's actually working out pretty nice to be stable.
The only thing that we need to do now
is get the tagging.
So the idea is, regardless of what you send me,
if it's an audio file, then it'll be converted to a temporary web file.
And then from there, it'll be converted into Og, Speaks, and MP3
from no good formats.
So the only thing we need to do now is get the ID3 tagging
from different formats, two different formats.
The two different formats is enough, but the form is a bit more complex.
Just pasted it into the show notes there.
But the script has got a lot of comments at the minute
because it started as one script,
and it's going to be broken off into two.
So the first part will be do a convert, whatever comes in,
when people send in a file to a very, very, very small Speaks
file that can be just, you know, for spam checking.
And then random chunks, three or four random chunks from the file
will be also just taken out and emailed to the team
that just checks for spam.
And then there's also going to be a spectrum spectrum of it done.
So like a JPEG, so as you can see,
whether the intro or not, it has been added.
OK, yeah, OK.
That's a pretty awesome thing of socks, actually,
that you can do that.
Hey, good morning, Leafy.
Going to say hello to everybody.
Say happy new year.
Happy new year.
Happy new year.
What's your name?
Happy new year.
It's Chenade.
Happy, happy new year.
And you will open a little nice.
Can you want to say hello?
Happy new year and Dutch.
Happy new year.
Yeah.
OK, I'm going to have to go and make breakfast, folks.
Happy new year.
Talk to you later.
Can.
Bye.
Take care, Ken.
Take care, Ken.
Later, Ken.
Now I can talk about him radio.
Woo!
Oh!
Yeah, now that all the Ken's out of the building,
we can talk about anything.
Yeah, but still being cool with it.
Yeah, do you think he's going to actually listen
to this whole thing and find out that we talked about it?
Since he listens to everything at like four times,
the correct speed, he just might.
Let's talk about that.
Well, if I could do that, if I could do action, I would go.
If I could do action, so I was going to suggest earlier
in the day, we do an hour as fake Ken Fallon.
Hello.
Oh, somebody mentioned doing a fake down there.
Did that sound noise guy?
Doing a fake, yeah, that was earlier.
Well, the real Dan showed up.
So, I don't know if you were there for that.
Oh, I missed that.
I was there for that.
Yeah, you missed it, dude.
Yeah, he was here.
Well, he did post in G+, he was going to come in.
I was afraid I was going to miss him.
I had to do stuff in town, and then everybody in town
decided their time was more important than my time,
and I never got back.
KT4, KB, John.
I am curious about something about him,
like in terms of if someone wanted to, I don't know,
explore getting started with him.
Maybe they're not going to make a commitment yet,
but they want to look into it.
Where would they look?
And like, what equipment would they be looking at?
Would all this person need, is like a radio?
What do you need to get like a radio and an antenna,
and something else?
Like, what would you start looking at
if you were totally new to him?
Aside from the FCC licensing and stuff.
I mean, just to look at pricing and stuff.
First thing I tell folks to do is go to www.arl.org,
and they'll be a link there that they'll actually send you
some information, and then talk to nuts like me.
I am talking to, and not like you.
I'm talking to you.
Give me something I can look at.
I want to know what I need.
Like, just a radio, is that all I need?
Is software defined radio the way to go these days?
I don't, yes and no.
I would not, if somebody was just interested in taking a listen,
and I'd say a portable radio with something
called a beat frequency oscillator, a BFO,
for the lower priced ones, the more expensive ones
will actually have it setting for USB and LSB,
which is upper and lower sideband.
It's a type of transmission where you'll actually be able
to hear the hands on HF bands,
and hear the long distance communications.
But there are some, and I wish I had them, Clot 2,
and I'll get them to you.
There are some links where you can actually use software
to find radio and listen, and to either get your curiosity
up or quench it if nothing else.
So you're saying that you can access the signals from HAM
radio from a computer without any special equipment?
Yes, and I don't have the, I don't have any of the links,
but there are some folks that have put radios on the internet
that you can listen to, tune around,
and it may either quench your interest
or make you more interested.
But you can't transmit your own signal that way?
No, no, not without a license.
And what do you need for, like if you were going to look
into the licensing and stuff like that,
what would you need to broadcast?
What kind of equipment?
Well, the basic, the beginning license,
which is called the Technician License,
some easiest one to get is basically,
I think it's 50 questions now.
It's a little bit of theory, rules and regulations,
and it's not very difficult.
In fact, I know kids as young as six that have passed it.
Most people can learn what's in that book in a month's time.
At some point, do you still have to pass like Morse code exam?
Not anymore.
Oh, wow.
I still do that when I was in high school.
Yeah, it has changed when I got my license,
which is close to 20 years ago to get on HF band,
which is where you get the long distance stuff
you had to pass Morse code.
Now in the United States, you do not have to pass any Morse code.
And there's a funny story about Morse code
and now that you don't have to have it,
believe it or not, it's gained popularity for some reason.
Probably because they know that all the nubes
aren't listening in on it.
Yeah, would you recommend KT4 that is someone
wanting to utilize and be a good ham that they should know Morse?
It's a personal, you know, it'd be to fully utilize
the privileges that you can get with amateur radio.
Yeah, knowing Morse code is helpful,
but my computer could copy Morse code better than I can
in my head.
But I use Linux.
So, you know, these to have it if you worked in a radio station
and there was a license that you got to work there,
you had to know Morse code and they cut that out.
That's been several years ago.
Yeah, I'm trying to remember when they totally cut it out
of all the amateur licenses.
Well, it's probably been 15 years ago.
Well, it's been quite a while.
Can I interrupt to have two people say good morning to you?
Come.
Certainly.
This is me.
We're talking about him.
Well, she.
I'm Padwick.
Well, you're going to set people happy new year.
You can see it's a Dutch as well if you're happy new year.
Good luck with New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Thanks, folks.
Happy New Year.
It's now a HPR tradition that that has to be done.
And I'd like to welcome God mode into the channel.
Hey, thanks.
I'm God mode.
I'm Vince from...
Well, I'm American, but I live in Malaysia, so happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year, too.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
It's a second view.
This is something I want to know.
I know you exist.
I'm afraid I'm not going to get any of that.
No, it's still the first.
I actually know it's like four clocks for 18 and eight hours ahead of me.
Yeah, it's four and eight hours.
I had to be in the UK.
And then I'm going to...
Yeah.
I'm...
I tuned you into a couple of times.
This is the first time I actually heard somebody speak in.
you know I said something earlier in the day that there are as this 24 hour thing
passes over the globe there's certain certain areas we don't have a lot of
general contact with so I'm relatedly you know for for your new years I'm
I'm glad welcoming welcome you into the channel. What do you do over that? I have
pushed to oh I call me Vince that's just a screen name. I'm a well I'm sort of a
live web developer you know because I have a one-year-old daughter and I've
been focusing focusing on her for this year or so but I probably I'll get
back into it. I have Godmode.com you can find my if you want details you find
my latest blog entry there you can see that's and it's a story so I'll spare you
the glory details if you want to read it it's it's right there at Godmode.com check
an answer blog now. Well I'm a I mean just in general I'm a web developer I'm
an open source enthusiast I use Linux as my primary operating system I
think I'm probably typical hacker public radio listener you know with all the
open source stuff and Linux and you know I focus on just the basic HTML CSS
JavaScript PHP that kind of stuff I know those those I'm a pretty average guy
as far as that technologically concerned. But what version of Linux do you use?
Yeah I was going to actually wish. Well right now right now I'm using Ubuntu
1210 on my main system I have some other like old beat-up laptops that I have
some other other other stuff on but I'm thinking I'm switching away from
Ubuntu because Unity is driving me crazy not because the launcher dash
because I can't stand the darn test switcher because it doesn't work the way
I expect it to it doesn't switch to the more anyway that's and that's another
rant for another time maybe I should do a podcast I was I gonna say yeah
what you're gonna say Ubuntu and I used to use a Ubuntu for years saying that
and then like the empty patching and so on and then I moved on to my
dreamer bit and then to my dear I was talking about earlier on there and then I
helped a bit with my real community side but yeah I mean there's loads of
distrace you can switch to really I mean as user-friendly as a Ubuntu
really all more for some all about the same fact and manages of the man
do my distrace I don't imagine him and dreamer and PC Linux OS all in the same
kind of family is the is of course the control sense of the graphical control
center for setting up the the system to account the hardware why some more
launch trip goes off into other programs for that but that's one advantage it
has those distrace have over over all these other distrace really
sub I have to agree with you on that I was very recently writing an article on
magia to and everything I was doing in the thing I would be like okay how do I do
this on magia I'd go looking around and I'd always find everything I needed in
the control center and it was really really kind of nice because I mean like
everything from setting up somba shares to managing users to changing
groups just everything it was it was pretty nice is the control panel
significantly different from the KDE system settings yeah yeah I mean yeah
it feels I mean it looks different it doesn't call up a KDE panel I don't
know said maybe you know more about like exactly where they get those like
that control panel but it definitely to to the user it looks like a completely
its own thing that control panel is specific to magia and men men driver not
well not exactly I mean it originally comes from man man driver and then old
mandrake if you like the old name 2003 that's what it was something that was
developed on mandrake and then passed on to men driver and now it's on
magia magia how to pronounce it not just my dear to be fair is in any
distribution that is based on mandraeva really so magia has it because the
fault PC Linux OS has has one as well because it was a fault of that's what I
mean that's what I mean though it's specific to it's specific to men
driver evidence yeah yeah rose unity Linux because I ran into it on PC
Linux OS years back yeah PC Linux OS or those kind of distributions they have
it the other distributions will have a reason they seem to lack that kind of
feature I mean yes okay good home has a kind of control sensor and KDE but
it's nothing like the this control sensor we're talking about now this is
like a popper one for the whole operating system think think like the
windows control panel if you like yeah if you've ever used windows XP it's
very familiar it's set up almost like I I I'll tell you the reason I got into
Ubuntu is really I'm just following the community now as far as control
center and settings seems to be a bunch of matter I haven't used magia I'm not
familiar with magia at all actually I'm familiar with the others but the
the you know I get lost between GNOME and KDE settings and sometimes they
conflict or sometimes they act differently depending on whether you're using a
GTK application or a KDE slash QTC application and I used to be I'm very
comfortable in the command line and so I'll often look for the configuration
file if I can like somebody mentioned Samba configuration no problem with
with SMB.com for me but now I used to you be a very faithful Red Hat user and
then even for the first couple versions of Fedora but then I sort of fell in
love with the app well the Debian package management system and then and
yeah did you miss an update could you actually me nap to the commands because I
mean that I used to really I mean I still like an update to this day and that's
actually when I try a piece of that so I was like I guess it got the control
center that we were just talking about but they also have snap they can
maybe it's changed they're gonna get rid of snapped it for some reason because
it was old or whatever but yeah when I was trying I was like control
center and snap they can then all the kind of usual distribution that you
know you've seen kind of programs that was good events are events is it are you
using push the talk I put in the chat if you're not that's what most of us are
doing you hold a key down or double cap tap a key to to talk rather than using
the sound level in the background but I've noticed you seem to be keyed all the
time so yeah yeah if you mean got nobody knows that too you know I know what
you're saying I'm using an Android app to do this because I was walking around
just now and I actually did have it keyed so that's my fault I this I don't
think this Android app which just is mumble for Android beta I don't think it
even has a voice activated mode so I'm gonna just be more careful about how I
use it no no it's okay really it's just we were it just lights up and it's
like it sort of says you want to speak but it's it's really it's working okay
so far anyway yeah it's it's working for you god mode because we're not
here in the background stuff some people are keyed all the time we hear
absolutely everything in the background you're you're not doing anything annoying
I just throw that in there in in in case you want to change your settings but
if you're an Android it may be completely different yeah I heard that five
minute the I'm a little behind on my podcast but I heard that five minute or so
recommendation for all the settings I'm in a very quiet room intentionally
because of the because of that but actually I think I'm sitting at the computer
now I think I'm gonna try to find a mumble mumble app for for for my Ubuntu
here and then I may sign out and sign in with that yeah you should find a mumble
client just in the repositories if you're on Ubuntu yep it install mumble mumble is
well mumble is probably in pretty much all the most distributions now in the
repays really mumble is awesome I was in for due to which which is based on
Fedora and they don't have they don't have it included and if if you're in like
a RPM distro the the mumble people or they don't they don't put out the
RPM image out there because they assume it's got to be in your in your repose
oh if it's not it's not included in for done too well I like and believe you say
so leave the developer I know when I see your chat tomorrow now can you say like
I was probably out mumble into repays fully do it because actually he was
trying to get the option the it was saying to be recently Harry's trying to get
that optional I've mentioned earlier but he was trying to tell me I was trying
to get the optional netflix port the patch wine with the instant export with the
Mozilla Firefox windows and the silver light for windows the official netflix
port we talked about that earlier on here but yeah he was doing that welcome to
welcome the US Anchorage sorry French Polynesia and the Marrakech Islands to
2013 happy new year happy new year
every 30 yeah so I don't know that much I don't know that much I kind of like the
echo like the echo effect cool yeah why so many mentioned for done to what is
for done to I've read some of that yeah yeah yeah what the heck is it yeah it's
gonna be so I want to answer that's why I want to answer the name is a bit
confusing it's because of you think sort of a bunch of whatever but no it's
not it's based on for Dora and the idea is that what's rolling police as well
but it's stable you know you get you get your package it's not gonna break on
you or it's not supposed to break on you but like PC and XRS that's rolling
police as well but it's not like Gen 2 or Arch Linux or whatever where you get
latest and that and something like break but the whole point as well with the
done to is that they're gonna they the ideas they're gonna keep GNOME to as
long as possible the actual proper GNOME to not mate not cinnamon none of that
they're gonna have the actual GNOME to the proper old one from upstream you
know gonna have that as long as possible and then whilst keeping everything
else up to date so the Linux kernel all that and then eventually they might
have to start replacing bits of GNOME because of share other changes but
that's the idea as well and then when you install burnt here it's like I
I install it from being in Linux magazines and you carry now like let's
format let's use it and drive up I think as well I mentioned it as well and
if I don't want to on the TDs with magazine the DVDs with magazine and I
booted up off from some of those and it's you know stolen it's kind of like
you can sort of when I first installed it I can sort of see certain things I
think was docky in there sort of things that you sort of think in the
bunter user made it kind of like somebody who liked the add-on programs that
bunter users tend to like for the old GNOME too so things like docky or
whatever I think you had there in there anyway but I think and then you got
with all the more and more stuff more recently I think but it's a stuff like
that they have some add-on stuff make GNOME too quite good and then they I think
the branding that I've seen is quite good as well and and that's it really as
far as I know and it's quite it's quite a small not really that known I mean
you've got nice e-challens not that many people there it's quite it's there it's
not that known about by it is a good distribution and also it's pretty quite
good on netbooks or low computers with low resources because because well
for example a guy at the log I think probably about three months ago he mentioned
how or on the mailing list is anyway he mentioned how he had put for
Dunch on his netbook and how great it was and that man so well and his low
power net book so there's that side to it as well it's basically goes on on
low-powered computers as well that kind of got the K-Rodoc down at the bottom but
you know for some reason they they're not porting mumble into their repos
and maybe because I specifically looked for mumble and for dune for dune
to but there were though it doesn't the site why doesn't for dune to have
mumble we can't possibly I think I think is I think mumble can probably be added
to sort of like talk to the guy I I know about or I mean I could try but they
would probably add in if I said like that you should probably put mumble in
because we'll have a pully at the end then however I take issue with what you
said about Gentu I've never installed any package on Gentu and had it break my
system yes yes you did well Seb if you if you've got some if you've got a
contacting to tell tell him to you know just do a search on didn't to and and
mumble he will come up with all kinds of sites that this would be a great
distro if we had mumble in there which shows you know I think how many people
rely on mumble for podcasting yeah yeah yeah it was bowling police I that's
what I mean I didn't mean Gentu specifically it's just as I did that if you
have a bowling release that in general that there's this idea it's more for
developers more technical people this idea that things are gonna break
packages because it's not a version distro but if you if you have something like
PC Linux OS or for done to then well they are really released but they're
they're fine or as far as I know it's not things aren't just gonna break but
this is idea the general idea that if you have a bowling release of some sort
distribution that it's gonna be all things are too up to date or things are
gonna break or whatever and compare to a version distro this is a general Linux
community idea it's you know it's pulling up that true really but it will
depends on distribution but that's what I was especially trying to say yeah
I was gonna say Gentu's rolling at least but I've like I said they're pretty
rock solid they've never had anything break they are almost they're their
approval process for getting packages into the repos and and for stabilizing
package they're almost as stringent as Debian well folks time for me to get
some beauty rest it won't help but it's time yeah good night then happy yeah
yeah happy new year thank you enjoy it all
that's not being is yeah that means got a volume lease as well I think oh
partly yeah it'll be been testing is basically a volume lease isn't it is a
Fedora now rolling release or is that just something that's speculated for
the future that that's the idea that Fedora would tower release a bit of a
room but it's not the moment actually that's I believe it's called tumbleweed is
the project name where you can install Fedora or is it Susa that's right
that's right that's Sus okay nevermind yeah Susa has a thing where you can
take any one of their releases and install it and then once you get going on
tumbleweed it essentially turns Susa into a rolling release that's not Fedora
yeah I want to say something similar well I was going to say but I wanted to see
if anyone else had any say about Fedora first which you obviously done but
actually my my dreamer and magia they will they've got very nice as well
really it's just my dreamers is my dream of a cuckoo and my
geos is my geoculverant but that really is the packages playground as it's
called it's for the developers you're going to it's going to have the latest
this and that I mean not even a quality when the quality of shoreline's team do
die so testing which I'm going to be helping it out with a bit for media free
anyway when they get the what happens is they basically given you made a
special like pre-release and only they have access it to to begin with the
quality shoreline's team and then you have a build or two and then one and then
one those bills will become the alpha or the beta or the release candidate
wherever it is at the time that's the next one and obviously the final release
and then if people install that and then do updates they actually end up
running the rolling release with the exception of the final well I suppose
we'll change the repose but but you say even there there is a rolling release
but his version's distro not see a bunch who has done a bit differently for
sample but sim with the whole daily build thing for sample but yeah I guess
you could technically call Debian a rolling release because once you
install Debian if you want to get the latest distro it's just a dist upgrade
well Debian's a rolling release depending on whether you have the
version names in so if you use I don't know easy or whatever then it's not a
rolling release but if you use stable then it is yeah that's what I'm saying all
you all you do is enter one command and automatically installs whatever the
latest packages are for Debian and so it just it's a rolling release because I
know I have I have Debian on my file server broke up pretty bad sick club
would you say oh I said I was gonna I was gonna get going myself okay
bye happy happy happy happy happy happy yeah yeah
bus needs you guys too see you take care bye what was that classic okay I think I'm
gonna take off too yeah well it's any freerun that left I might as well stay
with that well as a few guys are saying goodbye I'd say hello and what's been
happening over the last eight hours or so I've missed oh we could
just try lots of good man you solving all the problems of the Linux world and
the tech world in general it's nice to hear oh we did that I had a car to see
me how do you guys have been here the whole time well I haven't but I've been
there quite a long time oh coming back and then I'm being at the whole time I've
been away from out half an hour a couple of times but that's about it you're
doing better me I was going for like six hours I was here pretty close to
beginning clotter you've been here the whole time haven't you well with the
caveat that the website lied to me and it had like this errant countdown as to
when the show was going to begin so I was here when the website claimed the
show had begun but I found out that other people were already here before that
so since the time since seven o'clock I have been here but I understand that's
not actually the beginning but you also have a mysterious coffee breaks we
always Canada okay I just in front of the computer the whole time no I don't
think any of us could lay claim to that he's got one of those old coffee pots
would you know with a drip yeah yeah I just have it set up and it just drips into
my mouth that's something I could do with uploading the first episode of HPR
just crashed my machine how big is the file are the files I guess it's not that
bad it's just the the upload just took all my bandwidth and knock me out of
everything else here they took the entire internet connection down so this
explains why sometimes it's a couple days no it's just I'm also recording and
all I've got about three or four different streams going in and out of here so
I was also downloading the next two episodes at the same time as uploading so
and I have to use the connection one time I am just giving you the business
here and I mean if occasionally it takes a day and a couple a couple things get
posted you know we understand real life and all that stuff and I mean you're the
guy you know stuck with doing it for right now until it gets automated
Reggie not to bring this back to mumble yet again but you said you wrote an
article on it so I'm curious had you heard of mumble as a gaming chat
client or did you hear of it more of a podcasting tool when you first heard
about it I first heard about it really recently through the Linux
Basics podcast actually wow there's a lot of
right there that was like your punctuation mark but yeah so I didn't realize
until I researched it that it was a gaming thing too yeah I was aware of
mumble back when it was just for gaming I do a lot of gaming so you know I
found out about because of cravings I guess really because I was gonna go on
it and I did so also found that was the gaming so around same time I guess okay
so it's kind of mixed I had heard of it I thought I always thought of it was
like some kind of podcast tool I mean that's what I literally thought it was
designed for people like no it's a gaming thing I was like what do you do for
gaming on mumble I didn't get it till people explained how people talk to
each other during games news to me I'm not an avid gamer now I try to be I want
to be I like the culture I just can't I'm not interested in the games it's
weird I feel like such a geek and posture because yeah exactly that's why I
want to be I'm like I'm supposed to be into this because when you say you're
into computers people like oh if you played you know I don't know darn it what's
a game like one of those
words so here's my short list of games that I play I play Starcraft Starcraft 2
I play all of the Warcraft games that's Warcraft 1 Warcraft 2 Warcraft 3 you
admit to that I have dabbled in world of Warcrafts but I know if I really
get sucked into it there goes six months in my life I have played Call of Duty
all of the Call of Duty that's what I was thinking that's what I was thinking
Call of Duty I have played various modern Warford you know modern Warfare games
the Splinter Cell games the Rainbow Six games let's see what else oh and my wife
got me Black Ops 2 for Christmas but I also have complete I have the complete
command and conquer collection every command and conquer game ever made and their
expansion packs as well as let's see nights of the old Republic
um Lords of the Realm 2 Lords of Magic 2 Duke Nukem Duke Nukem 3D Quake I have
all of the Quake games all four Quake games and Quake Wars so yeah I didn't
understand a thing of that what was all that about as a non-gamer I didn't
understand all the games that I have in my collection you have like a lot oh
oh yes I have like a couple of shelves full of games I was driving awful
out of this industry I mean I'm assuming we're mostly IT folks here
they're definitely worth paying attention to even if we're not so much into games now
now I've played a little War of the Warcraft and that's the only other time I've
ever used mumble was with War of the Warcraft but I'm just and I wouldn't be
this field if I was if it wasn't for video games trying to make them work on an old
dust machine but yeah somehow I didn't carry on with my I didn't I didn't get addicted enough
to fit in with that crowd yeah so I'm addicted to gaming oh but see here's here's the interesting
thing if you if you're into open source games a lot of the first person shooters within the open
source games are based off of either the doom engine one of the doom engines or
the the quake three engine so like next whiz uh q salt q sour bratin sour bratin
um once another one um open arena um urban terror all the I play all those and they're all
based off of either one of the doom engines or or the quake three engine take a pick
welcome peg wall to the channel hey hey I like game well oh I'm a gamer oh yeah totally um tetris
pat man the linux game so there's there's me mate mate what's it called male swam the
ashtray's game I'm serious I like that game box squish I really like that I'm not joking I like it
I play all of the old I play all of the old Atari games that have been ported over to linux
as well so like ex galica um asteroids all those one game when I notice when the guy that does
the voiceover for l breakout stuck saying dammit when the ball falls through the bottom
huh it's an open source breakout clone and the guy that programmed it does a voice for certain
events and one of them is the ball you know what breakout is it's the thing where you that got
the pung at the bottom and you bounce the ball against the bricks at the top so so when you see
that break out isn't that break out that's a good yeah yeah i love that game yes I like that as well
as so I figure some at some point he started getting more attention for his game and he figured
it was politically incorrect for the game to shout dammit when the ball went out of out of the playing
zone there's a cake breakout there's a cake breakout as well so there's actually two
patterns all those recently in my my dear to install and um but yeah i don't like the basic games
also like worm they used to play the 2d worm they used to like play worm's or buy he wants them again
a lot before and of course his head wars and worm's or there's another one now but that's all
talented that's a good that's a certain one of the games you want to talk about politically incorrect
uh i also have the uh age of empires collection uh and age of empires two has a cheat in it you
put in the cheat that's the thing with age of empires you're talking about armies that are on foot
or on horseback and they actually make them go really slow across the map right so if there's
this one cheat that you put in that gives you at the center of wherever your base is your your village
town whatever it gives you literally a streaker and he shows up on there it's not he's not anatomically
correct but he literally shows up on the map completely naked and you point him in direction and he
literally shoots across the map like roadrunner any of you guys ever dabbled in second life
i tried it once and i couldn't figure it out just one for me oh that was such a business balls
about four or five years ago yeah not me yeah really see the appeal i did it just so i could make a
character just because that sounded like the most fun thing ever and it was but i never actually got
into using it i just pretty much did it to design a character has anyone checked out mozilla's banana
bread demo it's uh i haven't actually tried it yet it's entirely written in html5 from what i hear
html5 in javascript and it's the first person shooter really oh banana bread you shoot banana
i have no idea why they named it that but hold on i can tell you the url i'm just going to it now
for the first time i heard about it on a podcast i haven't actually gotten to sit down in front of
the computer it's uh developer dot mozilla dot org uh just search for banana bread it's it's a long url
did you find the one from mozilla who's i think i just accidentally sent everyone a banana bread
gift package for christmas uh searching for this thing sorry there is a game i want to install i just
i just haven't bothered to do it yet but i want to see the video i think oh vast that looks pretty
good and it's a game that's in development it's um it's called greedy car feeds it's a grand
fifth door real time so i don't know if anyone's heard of it here but it um but if anyone's
interested as well uh i mean i also have to look look at apple ever but it's been made for windows
and they're looks and it's in development and they had tech bikes they had an episode with the
developers not that long ago talk about it but it's like that game it's like i gotta try that out
i need to jump in here for a second it looks like we're losing the feeds again i'm guessing the
the the feed connections are actually falling out of the channel they're on the time out again
probably been it almost coming trucking back in then we have to actually do something with them to
actually like put out some text otherwise the little bounce back out again oh so this uh banana
bread looks like um almost like next wizz or uh or open arena speaking of first person shooters
you know quit uh the id software um the makers of the quake series uh what's about
two three years ago now um since quake three was so popular uh even after they open sourced it
because of all the mods everybody had done with it and everything um
um they they they created a uh website uh called quake live and essentially you you
create an account you log in and you can play quake three right from your web browser on any operating
system looks like we lost the feed again who has uh access to get to those machines
i just tried to connect the kevin's machine but it seems like it's unreachable maybe it's
be rebooted itself i'll keep trying and see if i can remote into it
kind of streamer we could move to the main channel again like we did last time
you can also um the uh streamer still the uh streamer still working so hikerpublicradio.org
forward slash org for anyone who can't hear you can hikerpublicradio forward slash org
as long as things are recording i guess as well dude man do you have any idea why your voice sounds
yeah i don't know you know um i don't know if it's a quality settings but what do i need to have
it set that uh i don't know but someone else was just asking me about this issue like two weeks ago
and i i'd never heard it before and now i'm hearing it and i'm wondering how you achieved it
so that you can unachieve it and then i can tell this other person how to unachieve it
well let me quit and see if i come back in this difference seems like it would be something
unhealing in the past uh what's happened uh for me if i you just quit and restart uh you no longer
sound like helium seems like maybe your also setting your sample uh rate might be incorrect i
wonder if you just like restarted pulse or also or whatever is serving your sound if that would
fix it restore it to defaults mine is now oh you still sounding really yeah i think it's it is
a sampling rate you might try checking and seeing what um with the sample rate well hang on let me
check i i tried that i think are you gonna try to see what their car their sound card is set to
is this a sound jacer actually i was gonna look and see what the what the rates are coming across
oh okay okay hi there's connection could the people on the mp3 stream please move to the
aug stream people on the mp3 stream please move to the aug stream thank you but the people on the
mp3 stream can't hear you yes they can if i keep dragging it back in oh okay happy new year
from california by the way everybody happy new year happy new year not precisely the time
happy new year still got about three minutes where in california are you folks the time police will
come down on you if you're off by it i'm actually off by 58 minutes so i'm trying to find
a casino so you know yeah where are you in california i've wished you uh happy new year
sports saver at the appropriate times you have to go back and listen to the apps thanks uh i'm
over in uh sacramental california yeah i'm gonna get back my wife is moving my wife is moving
my wife is moving the sacramental so and if she ever gets figured what she's got to unmute
she'll say hi so what is it so what is it less than two minutes for Alaska at this point
i believe so in Hawaii maybe no
no kawaii kawaii a lot of different time zone
why is one of the last i think how i always wanted last time games i think yeah yeah that's why
what jay rule tells for sure yeah i was gonna say he had no
can you guys hear me yes yes a lady hi happy new year yep i just
praise to the times that we need to uh note now into the channel if somebody wants to read them off
for us in 30 seconds apparently no wants to do that no he said 30 seconds they're waiting
forty three forty four forty five forty six forty seven forty eight forty nine
fifty fifty one
happy new year happy new year happy new year happy new year
happy new year
you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio or Hacker Public Radio does our
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on day through friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by a hbr listener like yourself if you ever
consider recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy it really is
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the economical computer cloud
hbr is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com all binref projects are crowd
sponsored by lunar pages from shared hosting to custom private clouds go to lunarpages.com
for all your hosting needs unless otherwise stasis today's show is released under a creative
commons attribution share a life lead us our lives
