Episode: 1419
Title: HPR1419: 2013-2014 HPR New Year Show Part 4 2014-01-01T04:00:00Z to 2014-01-01T10:00:00Z
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1419/hpr1419.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 02:02:22

---

Now let's start our puntial vlog.
What is it hangs out to the east of Canada feeling isn't right but there's somebody
out there.
It's called the ocean.
Greenland.
Greenland and Iceland are out there.
Jonathan, do you want to do another plug for the Orkup project?
I'll do one more quick.
I believe I can announce this person's name he pledged.
I believe it was public.
I will go ahead and announce it.
If it wasn't public, I apologize profusely.
Patrick Archibald pledged the Indiegogo campaign.
Thank you, Patrick.
Much appreciated.
You've contributed in the past to other projects.
I greatly appreciate your pledge.
I'm 5150.
Did pledge also.
Thank you for that.
If you want to visit the Indiegogo campaign, it's igg.me-at-orca.
I won't go on and on about accessibility.
You'll see everything you need there at the page.
Thank you all for making this possible and helping me bring accessible freedom to
vision impaired users throughout the world.
I did want to point out, Jonathan, if it's usually on these Indiegogo or
other projects, it's not either orb.
It's between the flash drive and the stickers.
I'd much rather have the stickers from my laptop that I contributed.
Okay.
Here's a little update for open dyslexic font.
Looking at another page that it's actually hard to read on.
I don't know why.
I don't know if it's fun or whatever.
There's a server list page on the mumble website.
I don't know if it's because it's underlined or because it's white on a blue background,
but something or other makes it much more difficult to read than a standard font.
The one thing I would say, Poki, is that you can use a user style sheet.
The other option is I believe, especially in Firefox, there's an option that says,
use my font choices and always override what other people specify.
Oh, there you go.
I'll have a look at that.
Gentlemen, I'm going to have to take off for a little while.
I have a sick wife, so I've been on here forever.
I'll possibly pop back in later or so, but thank you all for the good times.
Thanks, HPR for everything that you do in the community and with pushing the ACF and everything.
It's greatly appreciated.
And I hope you all have a safe new year.
And I might be back in later on.
Thank you, everyone.
Thank you, Jonathan.
Happy new year.
Thank you, Jonathan.
Happy new year, Jonathan.
Happy new year if you don't see you before you think about your job.
Happy new year, Jonathan.
Yeah, thanks for everything, Jonathan.
Thanks for being with us and everything.
Oh, Jonathan, did you talk to Peter about doing next Saturday?
joint KPO.
Yeah, I'll be on.
Dev random.
Yeah, I'll be off week.
Yeah, so not this Saturday, but next Saturday's KPO.
Well, no, because Peter pointed out your thing would be over by then.
So next week would technically be Dev random, but he's been after us like me and Pegwall and some of the other guys.
Can we do a joint show?
So he's actually talking about this next Saturday.
Okay.
I will definitely be there.
Awesome.
Thanks, guys.
And I'll talk to you soon.
All right.
See you later, man.
And we won't promise that we won't call people a son of a bitch or, you know, anything because it's going to be Dev random.
Damn straight.
Now, you see, I promised myself I was going to be this a web screwed up by now, but I guess it's my old damn age.
It's dichotomy.
You know, I can only do one or two things.
I can do, you know, I can be the dude who totally ruins a damn show by being off the rails.
Or I can be the guy who, you know, falls asleep by 830.
830 AM, right?
11 out of 10 times, you're the guy that pulls us off the rails, though.
Oh, Pokemon.
Glad to see you're still around because I never got the chance to tell you about the Christmas present I bought myself.
I bet it's a Rossi.
Well, it's all still covered in Cosmoline and I'm going to have to wait till at least for the wood parts.
So I'm going to have to have in Cosmoline, then it's going to be.
It's a Mosin or an SKS.
You're like an M1.
What the hell do you call it?
Mosin's a good guess.
Brom, Brom added it.
It's a Mosin again.
Yeah, and he's good with Rome.
I've shot in it.
I hate the Russian sights.
I really do.
Maybe my wife will jump in at some point here, but it's not looking like it.
We've both shot an SKS and I think I shot the entire mag into the berm because I could not figure out the friggin sights.
Are they the big buckhorn sights?
I forget.
It's the circle with the post in the middle of it.
It's a Russian thing.
No, no, I shot a AK-47 once and its sights were ridiculous.
They were not natural at all, but I forget that they might have been like a semi-buckhorn or something.
You don't use an AK for sharp shooting.
That's for mowing down trees, man.
Yeah, the one I had was a semi-auto, so you're not shooting full-auto anyway.
And it was fairly accurate.
I suppose for open sights at 50 yards.
I hit the paper.
As I understand, the only way to cook the cosmolean out of the wooden parts is to separate them and set them out in a 90-hundred degree day.
So it's going to be the middle of Kansas summer before.
I can do that, but I've bought myself some acetone and some natural spirits and it's the red compound or whatever.
It's like one-quarter natural spirits, one-quarter asthma tone and one-quarter caracene and one-quarter type A transmission fluid that will soak out everything in the metal parts.
I don't know about wood, but my only experience with cosmolean has ever been on buying new brake rotors.
And you usually just take brake clean, spray it on a rag and wipe it off and it comes off very quickly.
It comes right off real quick.
The trouble with brake clean and gun parts is that as soon as you get that whatever you're trying to take off of it,
as soon as you get it off, put some oil on it too, cos brake clean takes everything off.
But you might try powder blaster in the same way, because I know that has a little bit of lubricant in it.
Well, see, I mean, there are all kinds of help sites out there.
There's a lot of them say, get a steamer like you would use to steam out your ironing stuff and run that over the thing and that'll cook everything out of it.
Get a steamer like whatever is available for rent at your local grocery store.
Well, a lot of them say just put it out of really hot water and cook it out.
Huh. Now, if you don't mind me asking, how much did you pay for a Cosmoline Mosin Agon?
Well, see, this whole start right before Christmas.
And I don't know how they got my address, but you didn't answer the question I asked somebody.
Somebody sent me my email, you know, a hundred bucks we have for, you know, for scratched wood parts for a hundred dollars.
And actually that same company, they got down to 90 on, you know, Black Friday for the same good.
Plus, plus 25 to 45 here, FFL, and what did they get you for shipping?
Well, see, I didn't go with them. I started reading the articles about the Black barrels and how hard it was to cook some of those out.
But then, you know, a lot of people said it doesn't matter on, you know, little shoots, it'll shoot the same whether you got a shiny barrel, not.
But I figured, you know, flying rich, he, you know, he would be a good resource on that.
And I talked to him and he said, well, there's this other company you could go with and they're about 30 bucks higher.
And then about 30 bucks higher than that to pick the best out of the, you know, what they have to not have to do all this stuff, shining up arrows.
So that's, that's the way I went. So eventually, you know, I went about 160 bucks to buy the gun.
And then another 80 bucks or 90 bucks to buy 400 rounds of ammo.
Oh, that's cheap ammo.
Well, that's why I think America is.
And I do that cheap right now.
No, that's the thing that's bugging me too is I can't get that ammo cheap because I don't live in America.
And you could because I was surprised.
I thought, well, you wouldn't be able to go hunt with this because it's full, full jacket of ammo, but this Russian ammo isn't.
It's not full, but jacketed.
Huh. That sounds nice.
What's the gun way?
Oh, it's heavy and it's big and got damn long, man. It's almost as tall as I am.
You put the goddamn bay and that came with it. I think it, I think it would be longer than I am.
We'll take the damn bay and that off and tell me what the gun weighs.
Well, I'll tell you once I get the goddamn cosmohing cooked out.
Well, it's a new gun to this very heavy comrade.
It is used for, it is also usable as a plow with the bay and that's still attached.
Yeah, it's used for bludgeoning you.
Well, that's true. They gave out one bullet for every four mose and the gun.
So three out of four of them were used as bludgeons, not rifles.
And you can use it as a plow. I think they used them as rebar. I mean, they're heavy, man.
I haven't noticed I'm joking.
I said, well, yeah, well, a lot of truth.
This is not a light weapon.
I saw a kid at the range one time with one of those and I swear to God, that was the loudest gun I've ever heard go off.
That thing made such a blast. And this kid was manhandling the bolt on that gun.
I couldn't imagine why it would take so much muscle to move the bolt of a gun.
Because it makes you strong when you use it, comrade.
But I've heard, you know, I've talked to people who own these guns and use them.
And I guess if you clean them, you ought to be able to operate that bolt with two fingers.
And this kid had to use his whole friggin arm.
And he wasn't clean.
Yeah, so maybe it was just Christy.
I need to clean my pistol.
Yeah, this is the flex receiver or the hex receiver.
That's what Rich recommended when I see online is stronger than the earlier receiver.
Nice. Hey, I got, I got a gun for Christmas too, comrade.
Cool. You get it.
I got very, very rare. I've got a, um, a Ruger 2245.
But I got the one, one of the original ones that was based on the Mark II,
not the one based on the Mark III.
So there's, there's, I mean, an ass load of Mark III 2245s out there.
But there are, I think somewhere between 2500 and maybe 5000.
I think we're the numbers that I saw that were ever produced of the Mark II based 2245s.
And I got to say, I don't really like it.
So I hope it's actually worth something.
I don't like the, the pistol grip on that thing.
Well, I tell you what, what, what I wish I'd been able to get when I started looking into the, uh,
most negant is the old negant pistol because I saw it 10 years ago and thought it was cool.
In, in a, you know, a history of firearms book.
And that, that's the one that was the positive connection gun where you,
you pulled the trigger and then actually moved the, the, uh,
it, uh, oh, is the one that is the one that pushes the cylinder forward, the revolver.
Yeah. Yeah.
You'll shoot your eye out.
And apparently it will and he'll love it.
Apparently till last year, you could buy these anywhere to, I mean, uh,
they, they produced them from the 20s to almost the 80s in the Soviet Union.
And, and, uh, they're readily available.
And you get them for 90 bucks.
This is the ugliest revolver I've ever seen.
But you could, you could get them for like 90 bucks.
And then last year they ran out of them.
And, and, you know, the best place I found was like 300, 400, uh,
you know, I'd always seen that in the book and I thought,
man, that is the coolest thing.
And apparently it will, they say it will chamber a 32,
but it doesn't make the, uh, 32 long,
but it doesn't make the positive, uh, connection.
And it's a little bit loose in there.
And there are companies that make a 32 long cylinder for it.
But apparently you got to go, a lot of times you got to do a lot of filing and all that
to get that to take it to a gunsmith to make it work.
So once you convert to 32, once you convert to 32,
you can't go back to the original, uh, ammo for it.
For, for anyone who's lost here and doesn't know what we're talking about,
uh, whenever you fire a revolver, the, there's a, there's an air gap
between the cylinder, which is the part that holds all the bullets.
And it, it turns around and puts a new bullet in front of the...
Cartridge is, Pokey.
Cartridge is, thank you.
It, it revolves and puts a new cartridge in front of the hammer and,
and behind the barrel every time you shoot.
There's a small air gap between the front of the cylinder and the rear of the barrel
and a tremendous amount of pressure and heat and hot gas
and sometimes even particulate matter can be expelled from that air gap.
So it's critical that you do not get any soft human tissue
next to that little air gap and pistols revolvers have to be held in a very specific way.
And this pistol is one of, maybe two that I've ever heard of,
where part of the mechanism of firing the weapon pushes the cylinder forward
and seals the gap between the, uh, the cylinder and the barrel
so that none of that gas escapes.
And it's kind of academic, because if you hold the pistol right,
the, the escaping gas doesn't have much of an effect on the velocity of the round
or the accuracy, but it can have some effect on you if you get your hand in there
and it shouldn't, if you hold it right.
But, um, it's, it's kind of a neat thing.
And again, it's academic and we're all about academics around here.
But just looking for a picture of this gun, I found a picture of one
that someone converted into a carbene, which is a semi-short.
It's not technically a short-bound rifle, but semi-short barrel.
And it's, it's one that you can fire as a rifle.
And there are very few revolvers that have ever been made into rifles
because with a rifle, you have to put your support hand in front of the cylinder
and it causes your forearm to get burnt unless there's some kind of deflecting shield.
And this one doesn't need it.
So someone made a carbene out of it and that was kind of neat.
And it reaches a speed of 18.
It reaches a speed of 18.
It reaches a speed of 18.
It reaches a speed of 18.
Wow, three guys at once.
You can, each of you take turns to say that again.
That's going to say first, in most of your media, when a pistol was silencer,
it's a silencer screwed onto a revolver, which is ridiculous.
Because like you said, there's always an air gap between the cylinder and the barrel.
But it's easier to file off the front side on a revolver and thread it.
And for Hollywood revolve, you know, screw a can on there that looks like a suppressor or silencer.
But anybody knows guns knows that you cannot silence a revolver.
And this is one of the things you can't do.
I don't think I've seen a suppressor on a revolver.
It's impossible on this because of the design.
Yeah, and it really does make a difference.
I've seen video of it.
If anybody wants to see a demonstration of what we're talking about here with the gas that escapes from a revolver,
there's a guy who makes a lot of videos on YouTube.
His YouTube handle is Hitcock45, H-I-C-K-O-C-K.
I believe 45.
And he's, I'll have to find a link to the video, but he's got a demonstration where he holds a sheet of paper next to a,
is probably a 38 special.
I think it's a 357 magnum revolver, but that particular...
I don't know. I need to get back on the podcast.
Right on, Rich.
You can replace that with a 38 special.
And I'm pretty sure he puts a 38 special in this 357 magnum, which you can do.
It's perfectly safe.
He holds a sheet of paper folded up several times, so it's, you know, a thick water paper.
Next to this air gap that I'm talking about, and when he pulls the trigger,
you know, I was expecting to see the paper get peppered or maybe torn or something.
You know, it pretty much vaporized three or four inches of this piece of paper.
It annihilated it.
It was, it was pretty surprising the damage that it did.
Well, from the, from the research that I've done, trying to find somebody could still sell me in the gunt,
I've found out, you know, people have experimented with suppressors on the things.
Even without a suppressor, this thing is incredibly silent.
The pistol?
Yeah.
What, now what caliber is it?
Well, like I said, 32 is a little big for it.
What does it come with stock?
Would, would, if you were to buy one?
Seven, six, two.
You don't know the bottom line.
Not mostly not rifle, the, the gunt revolver.
Oh, okay.
Is this the M1895 that I put on the link to?
Is that the one you're talking about?
Yeah, that's it.
M1895.
Yeah, and I posted that with a PDF page to the show notes.
Okay.
Anyway, according to the Wikipedia article, it's 7.62 by 38R.
No, no, no, no, no.
R means rimless.
No, no, no.
R means rimmed.
R means rimmed?
That's correct.
The most negon ammo for the rifle is 762 by 54R.
Okay.
All right, my bad.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, it sounds right to me.
Okay.
It's going to say revolvers for the most part, there's very few exceptions.
Revolvers all use rimmed cartridges, and the rim is the little kind of ear of the rim
that sticks out of the back of it.
And most repeaters don't use rimmed cartridges, and most revolvers do.
Right.
Like most pistols with a magazine have rimless cartridges except what is it?
The, oh gosh.
The PMR 30.
Is it PMR 30?
KELTIP makes a 30 round 22LR.
No, that's a 22 mag, which is your right.
It's got a rim, but it's just a 22 magnum.
PMR 30 is a hell of a gun.
Which I have no idea how that magazine worked correctly.
Oh, you know what?
My buddy just had me buy for him, and he bought it, but he gave it to me to work the kinksaw
and he just bought me a, bought himself a Walter that I've been working on.
And it's really neat the way the magazine staggers in that night.
I have to believe that the KELTECH works similar.
But it's a staggered magazine, but instead of the bullets being, excuse me, the cartridges.
Thank you, bro.
You're welcome.
Instead of the cartridges being staggered in a way that the entire cartridge is side by side,
the bullet is one on top of the other, but the rims are staggered.
So you've got one cartridge is pointed somewhere about...
Kind of an X-patter?
Yes, exactly.
Like five to ten degrees from center, and the one...
I had that idea independently, and I was wondering if anybody did that before.
Yeah, and this gun has it.
It's got a 10-round magazine.
It's a real short magazine.
It fits in a compact sized handle.
You know, where your pinky won't fit on the handle.
It fits in there.
Well, I got...
I went with Pat to a gun show in Pennsylvania, and I picked up an AK-47 M70 AB2.
It's underfolded Yugoslavian.
And I haven't shot it yet.
I've been to the range twice down here, but I haven't gotten to shoot that.
And I also got a most in a gun.
I had to receive her 1890...
Oh wait, not 1890.
I forget where you're...
But it's a Tula, and it looks in great condition.
But I haven't cleaned it yet.
And there's a range over by Okachobi that opens at 10 am.
So I was going to head over there tomorrow morning.
Now that's how you're ringing the new year.
Yeah, Rich, I bought mine on your recommendation.
So let's coordinate on cleaning.
I've heard on the red compound for the metal components,
but it sounds like the wooden components the best thing to do is
until you get 90-100 degree days and separate them out and wait for them to bleed.
Yeah, somebody...
I saw a video.
He actually put them in an oven at like, I think maybe 200 degrees.
But my one rifle...
Electric oven, please, gentlemen.
Yes.
My one rifle, I took the parts out and I was in Florida,
and I just let them lay out in the sun,
and I'd wipe them off every half hour.
But if I shoot 20 rounds through the rifle,
it still sweats out of the hood.
The cosmoling keeps coming out of it.
Huh, that's probably a good sign as far as preservation is concerned.
Well, for the wood, maybe.
But a lot of the stocks, they might be 99% looking real good,
and then there's a hunk taking them out of them randomly somewhere.
So I got a really nice one,
but I might get up like 6 a.m. tomorrow morning and clean it down.
I've got the mineral spirits here.
The motion comes in part with two screws pretty much,
and although I don't have any most ammo here,
I got about 1,000 rounds in New York.
What am I saying?
I got about 2,500 rounds in New York,
but I don't have any here with me.
So how's the motion fit?
Is it like a clip with an internal magazine or what?
Uh, yes, exactly.
Okay, and for those unfamiliar with guns,
a clip is not the thing that everyone on TV calls a clip
that's a magazine, a removable box magazine.
A clip is just a little metal strip
that typically rimmed cartridges will slide into,
and you kind of, you open the bolt of the gun,
and usually press the clip against the real magazine,
and push the bullets down, and the clip falls off.
And the, excuse me, the cartridges,
push the cartridges down into the magazine,
the clip falls off, and the gun is loaded.
Well, it's like a 5 rounds, 5 rounds, stripper clip, though.
You can get 10s looking around.
You can, you can see, you can find alpers that, you know,
unders that have removal clips, you know, 2010, 30 rounds,
whatever, if you want to go that way.
No, no, those are two minutes of magazines.
The clips are the actual little strips
that you use to load a magazine with.
Yeah, the poke is right here.
The whole thing that you need to know about magazine versus clip is,
does it have a spring in it?
If it has a spring, it's a magazine.
Otherwise, it's a clip.
The most in the gun and the SKS have internal magazines,
but you load them with a clip because it's faster.
One of my favorite things.
That's right, you can load them without the clip.
Is that, when you know a little bit more about guns,
and you hear people saying, like, magazine clip,
and they use both terms incorrectly to describe the wrong part.
That's right.
And even my wife and I both like burn notice,
but it's like somebody's holding a gun at somebody,
and they got their finger on the trigger,
and then they rack the slide.
It's like, oh, that's a good way.
It's like, oh, you mean you had your finger on the trigger,
pointing it at the guy that you're going to shoot,
but there's no round in the chamber.
And when you rack the slide, no round came flying out.
But that's a movie thing, you know, to add drama.
Yeah, to me, I'm going, oh, whoops, you didn't load it?
Well, the other point is you keep your finger off the frigging trigger
until you're ready to fire the gun.
Correct.
Not only is it a safety concern,
but even if you're a bad guy and you don't care about safety,
you probably don't want to kill somebody
before you're ready to kill that person.
So keep your finger off the frigging trigger.
Well, my biggest fear is this happens to a lot of cops,
where they would be unholstering the weapon
and they needed it.
And just part of the grip process is they put their finger
in the trigger and shoot themselves in the foot.
Okay.
I'm going to break in here because we have another New Year's
to celebrate.
It's a greeting to Venezuela, Caracas,
Berkus Amito, Marra-Kybo, and Marra-Key.
Did we do the last one on the hour?
Did we do it?
Yes, we did.
I missed it.
All right, thank you, guys.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
So I just got back from the movies with my wife
and if I go to the movies, I carry a full-size nine
and that's the Ruger SR-917 and the Mag and one of the chambers.
Berk.
And on Sound Chaser, I had a little more, I think.
Yes, because we are trying to remember to do our reminder
of the Accessible Computing Foundation's fundraiser
for our ARCA development.
And please visit the Indiegogo Starter for this project
at HTTP colon slash slash IGG.Me slash AT slash ARCA.
Uh-oh.
It doesn't look like anybody donated today.
Oh, yeah.
There's three of them.
There's three of them.
There have been four donations today.
Right.
Mine did not go through Indiegogo because of the way
the 501C3 is the status is currently.
Tax deduction.
Thank you for donating.
I have a redstone.
When you go to the theater, are you hampered by the theater saying
you could not carry here or, you know,
is that something they've learned not to do in your state?
Well, first off, I'm in Florida and when I'm in New York,
the only thing I have is most of it gone.
So I just hope the bad guys a thousand feet away, you know.
If they're that far away with the most and maybe I have a chance.
But the good luck carrying that into a movie theater.
Probably think it's the new projector.
So typically I carry an LC9 in my pocket.
But, you know, after I'm worried about cap copycat issues
just like Aurora Colorado.
So what I do carry is I'll wear a collared shirt, you know,
with buttons in the front and I have this.
Actually, I did a video on it on my YouTube channel.
It's kind of like an ace bandage but with a couple of holsters
and it goes around your midsection and the butt of the gun
is basically in your armpit.
So you just pull open your shirt and reach in and grab it.
But I mean, on the legal situation, if somebody says
you can't carry a piece on our property, do you have to abide by that?
Or you decide, well, you know, somebody's going to shoot at me.
I'll figure out later liability.
That's why it's concealed.
If you're concealing a non-model lawyer,
so don't take my word for this.
But if I were to run into that particular situation,
if they don't know I have it, they shouldn't really say anything about it.
And should the situation arise where that has to be drawn,
I believe that all I am guilty of is trespassing.
So I am not a lawyer, I could be wrong, I probably am, but that's the way out.
No, but you've generally got it right.
Well, it depends on the state.
Some states, there are certain signs and they have to be written a certain way
and blah, blah, blah, blah.
Other states, I think Ohio or North Carolina, I think it's one of those,
where just anything that looks like it's a no-gun symbol is force a law.
Some places, they're just stupid and those signs don't have any force a law.
It just makes people feel better.
And some of them is basically, yeah, the only thing they can do is ask you to leave
and if you don't, you're trespassing.
And I am wholeheartedly behind, it's better to be tried by 12 than carried by six.
Well, people keep saying that, but being tried by 12 is expensive,
but you can buy insurance for the six.
Yeah, and again, I have to repeat, I am completely utterly, thoroughly,
and in all other ways opposed to an intelligent person quoting a bumper sticker.
Don't do that.
Well, no, you know, and some of the...
Some of the...
Some of the...
I came on one of the G-Bus gun enthusiasts saying,
to the day, well, a guy posted, you know, a camouflage, a 45-calb,
or well, actually, actually a 30-calb or 45-power behind it,
you know, sort of like a rifle cartridge that he had.
But, you know, he'd release it all, you know, in the camouflage and said,
you're just asking...
You know, I said, you're asking somebody to look at that if you have to use it
and say, it's your gun nut.
And it's like, you know, you buy a Mossberg or a Remington pump
and, you know, you buy the pistol grip stock
and the, you know, 12-round magazine
and the, you know, the folding shoulder mount.
Let me correct you, it's a nine-round magazine.
You know, okay, I think it's cool.
I think it's great, but you're asking somebody on a jury
to look at you and say, yeah, you're a nut who's looking for a fight.
That's why you get a bright pink one,
because then while everyone's laughing at you, you know.
Like my wife.
Well, yeah.
That's actually a good idea, bro.
That's a really good idea.
Yeah, see, I don't like the whole bird.
But, hello Kitty on the side.
I've seen the Hello Kitty AK-47.
I was thinking of getting like a bright green rifle for home defense.
I mean, I've got an AR. I could have it serocoded.
You know, living in Maryland, I mean, the thing is banned right now.
But, since I bought it before the band,
thank you, Mr. O'Malley.
You know, and the funny thing is all I have is the lower.
And if you look at the thing, you go, how is this a scary black rifle?
And the answer is because I haven't bought all the other parts yet.
But, you know, if you get it camo,
and you get it tactical and stuff like that,
yeah, you deserve to be a little ridiculed and a jury, you know.
I've heard so much crap from gun nuts saying,
oh, well, if you do this, you know,
you want to carry without any modifications to your trigger.
You don't want to do this.
You don't want to reload blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
The prosecution is going to paint you as a gun nut.
No.
The prosecution is going to paint you as a gun nut regardless
if it ever gets to trial.
The whole thing is, if you have a trigger mod,
your defense is because it makes the firearm easy to use in a firearm situation.
I care about my defense.
I care about this.
You have a defense lawyer for this purpose.
Don't be afraid from doing mods that make the firearm easier for you
just because you're scared of getting up, you know, some lawyer after you.
Yeah, but there was one I saw the other day.
Oh, one of our guys got, I should remember it,
but it was there for the law for and the,
the single fire said no pew and the fire said,
pew, pew, pew.
If you go to court with this one, you're fucked.
No, well, let me,
let me hear a fly and reaches about the same,
but I had something to say about your,
your shotgun there.
5150.
Well, if I was going to trade the shotgun today,
I know 5150.
I would, I would trade the Remington for the Mossberg,
because the Mossberg's lighter.
Rich, what were you going to say?
Well, just Florida and probably something I've said before,
if anybody's ever heard of me, I carry around LC9,
which is a single stack 9 mil,
seven in the mag, one in the chamber.
Yeah, we sure that.
I am not that accurate with that gun,
but on a good day with either my SR45 or my SR9 at 30 feet,
I can put all of the rounds within a pie plate or smaller.
Oh, Jesus, at 30 feet, I hope so.
And, well, I'm not saying I'm a great shot,
but I'm saying I'm a better shot with a full-size pistol.
Then at 30 feet even in broad daylight,
you should have a laser on that gun.
You can still see it.
I do have actually one LC9 and the SR9 have lasers.
So the, the point I'm making in Florida,
where they, they've had pretty harsh laws.
It was, I know, a year or two ago,
about not allowing you to imprint,
like if you had a inside the waistband
and you stretched in the gun shown,
you're guilty of a crime.
They've relaxed those laws,
but I really wish they allowed you open carry,
because then I could comfortably carry a full-size 9
or a full-size 45 with me wherever I go.
And everybody would be safer.
Well, that's been my point for years,
screw the, screw the concealed carry on.
And open carry, I can open carry every place in my state,
except the two municipalities where I might get in the trouble.
And that's Wichita and Hutchinson.
You know, we, we, we need to seriously estate law
that says, you know, the state,
the state statutes apply everywhere,
and you do not have state preemption?
No.
No, I'm sorry.
State preemption means local laws
can't supersede state law.
Basically, it's an inversion of what you would expect
from the Constitution, you know,
where the, the Constitution of the United States says that, you know,
state's laws, right, the whole 10th Amendment.
Basically, preemption says, screw your 10th Amendment.
The laws apply everywhere,
which is actually kind of a nice thing
because it means that you have one set of laws to worry about.
Well, on the state level, yes, on the federal level, no.
Right.
I do like the 10th Amendment on the federal level.
I would not like it.
Right, but for gun laws, you're right.
You have so many different localities.
And then you have crap like Massachusetts and New York
where depending on what county you're in, it gets ridiculous.
Well, here's, here's the crazy things.
You have a driver's license and that's honored in every state.
Now, they always tell me driving is the right.
It's a privilege.
But how come that works that way?
Now, my Florida carrier permit is honored in a bunch of states.
But if you're right to bear arms is the right right?
Right.
Necessarily privilege.
You've got a good point.
It's a constitutional right.
And I can go on and on about this.
So if showing ID to vote, which is a right,
is wrong because it's racist to have everybody show an ID,
how is it that I have to?
It's on the class list.
How can I have to be fingerprinted, pay all sorts of fees,
take tests, and training to carry a gun?
Because you don't live in New Hampshire.
Right.
Yeah, that's pretty much it right there.
Now, what I did want to say long ago, about 5150,
talking about buying a Mossberg 500 and putting the shirt
pistol grip on it and a long magazine in the short barrel,
don't do that if you're going to get in trouble for modifying it.
Just by the cruiser model, it comes that way.
And I'm sure the Remington 710 does as well.
And don't worry about the weight.
It's only ounces at that point anyway.
But that said, don't put a pistol grip on a shotgun anyway.
They're much more effective with the full buttstock.
Even if you don't press it into your shoulder,
there is a way to hold the shotgun chest level.
And it's quite accurate enough in a home defense situation.
No, I wouldn't say that.
I wouldn't say that.
It's just a shotgun.
Any shotgun is the best weapon in a host of hits at home defense situation.
No, I have.
In mine.
I have to do a thing.
I got the blanket statement.
Any blanket statement.
I got the last of the 30 grip or 30 inch barrels.
Mine's modified choke.
But mine doesn't have the screw in choke that Remington is famous for.
But I got the last of the 30 inch barrels.
I'm certainly satisfied that that would make a decent home defense weapon.
Should I need it?
Sure.
Great.
I said, why do the pistol grips exist for shotguns in?
Because it takes time to work out kinks and things and to develop techniques.
And I'm guessing that the pistol grip was sold before the technique of holding the buttstock under your elbow was developed.
That's my best guess.
I don't know the real answer to your question.
So is that different from pistol grips on rifles in for example?
Yeah, because the pistol grip on a rifle still has a full buttstock.
A pistol grip on a shotgun doesn't have any buttstock at all.
It's literally a pistol.
Oh, you mean without the buttstock?
Yes.
I see what you're saying.
Yeah.
Now a pistol grip on a shotgun that you were probably envisioning at first where it's a pistol grip underneath a buttstock.
Those are actually nice and ergonomic and they're fun to shoot if you can reach the safety.
And it's real difficult to reach the safety on a Mossberg with a pistol grip under the buttstock.
So I avoided buying one of those.
I like them.
They're wicked comfortable, real ergonomic.
But you can't get to the safety very quickly.
My wife just let me know that I better be kissing the monitor in 15 minutes or find her.
So I'm going to go find her guys.
Happy New Year.
Love you Rich.
Happy New Year Rich.
Happy New Year, guys.
Happy New Year.
Bye.
Bye Rich.
Happy New Year.
No.
I mean, the only reason I like the Mossberg, it's noticeably longer lighter than my Remington if you're going to be walking around the fields all day long hunting game.
Jesus, I have a Mossberg and that thing weighs a ton.
I hate carrying that around all day.
Oh, man.
What should do is try carrying around an old browning, which is actually, you know, what I have is the Remington.
See the original browning automatic specs were were made and sold to Remington, but they'll don't browning.
Yeah, the B.A.
I've got a Remington 11 A, which is, you know, you know, the browning design.
That thing is the field piece that don't have wheels on it.
Yeah.
Wow.
The heaviest gun, the worst gun that I carried around for a day or so, I carried a Winchester Model 100.
And man, you look at that gun and it looks so slender and spelt.
It looks so lightweight and easy to carry.
But for some reason, man, it's got to be 12 and a half, maybe 13 pounds.
And right at the balance point is where this magazine is, the kind of sticks out and tips it on you and digs India.
And there's no comfortable way to carry that gun, which is a crying shame because it's the probably the most accurate gun.
I've ever, or the most accurate I've ever been with a gun shooting just off hand at 100 yards.
I had about a two inch, maybe two and a half inch group fired from the shoulder.
And that was, that's my best group ever at 100 yards.
Well, see, we have the habit in my family of picking up the iconic guns.
My dad hunted for years and years with a Winchester 97.
And you know, it was designed for two and a half inch, 12 gauge shells.
And he actually shot two and three quarter inch.
So that's why they kind of stuck a little bit once in a while.
And of course, you know, when I bought my gun, I bought a 12 gauge Remington Wingmaster.
So it's, it, it's like an eat.
Yeah, in each generation, if you could, well, well, buddy of mine in college, when I told him I had, you know, he called him Biquitous.
And I said, well, yeah, that there's, there's a reason why that is.
So, you know, the most common gun in every generation is what we have.
Yeah, well, if you got an old enough one, then you probably have a Marlin Model 39A.
And that's, that's my favorite gun that I own.
It's an old Marlin 22 lever action shoots shorts, longs, and long rifles.
And it doesn't care if you load all three in the same magazine, it'll still shoot them and, and be swat on.
I love that gun.
Well, I don't have that, but I do have a, I have a Bolt Marlin 410.
Oh, that's neat. I don't think I've ever seen one of those.
I have to get your pictures of it then.
Yeah, I'd love to see that. That, that sounds really cool.
Do you ever get a chance to shoot a Model 39A?
That's a, it's a hefty gun for a 22.
And it's, it's, it's just hefty enough to keep it easy to point, you know, even after a day of walking.
But it's, it's just light enough that you can carry it all day and it, it isn't troubled.
And Brom, did you shoot my lever action rifle? Did you, did you shoot that?
No, I never shot your lever action. I only, you only had the Marlin 60s when I came up.
Okay, so I didn't have that one yet. All right.
Or if I did, it wasn't working yet. A friend of mine gave it to me and it was missing several pieces.
So I had to get it working again.
But yeah, mine's a, I'm very proud of it. I love it. It's a 1946 model.
So it's, it's even older than 5150.
Yeah, it is. Why, I mean, it's antique.
I had, you know, my whole deal.
Ancient, not, not using a weapon that, you know, would make people think,
oh, yeah, you picked up the weapon just to see, you know, how cool it would be to use it.
I avoided the, uh, Taurus, you know, the, the Taurus revolvers that are.
The judges for, for, yeah, the judges and the better ones.
That's the wrap.
The big ones that are getting better.
Yeah, I've heard that. If you, if you shoot a lot, if you shoot a bunch of rounds through it,
they get awful loose.
But the, uh, 45, that, that, uh, there's something in there that I think it's the piece that moves the cylinder,
that rotates the cylinder, a little finger in there.
And yeah, you know, revolvers historically, they've made this piece out of like, you know,
drop forged steel and I guess the, the Taurus has a piece that's made out of stamp steel.
And it wears out in about 2000 rounds, which is a pathetically short time for a revolver.
It's supposed to be, you know, dead on reliable.
Yeah, I've always thought if I was going to, uh, you know, uh, after I found that out,
I knew I was not going to buy used one or have to buy new.
But the, uh, for, the four, the four 1045.
But what came up on that, I always thought, well, you know, it would come back to me.
This thing I had said, I don't want a, uh, to use a firearm and anger that is going to attract attention to myself.
But yeah, here's the guy who just wanted to use this piece and see how it worked.
But shoot the last gun show that I went to, fully half the guns there were Taurus's.
Do you want to know why 5150?
Why have the retours?
Yes, Taurus has a reputation of basically outsourcing their QA to the consumer.
Their, their firearms are very cheap.
But a lot of them have quality issues.
Yeah, but every gun manufacturer nowadays takes, you know, you, you can call it outsourcing your, your QA,
or you can call it accepting customer feedback.
You call it what you like.
No, no, Taurus has it really bad because they, they're occupying a specific price point in the market.
And if you need that price point, I mean, that's why things like Taurus's and high points exist.
Because not everybody has a, a couple thousand dollars they can blow on a firearm for protection.
But those, those Taurus's, I mean, it's like, what is the entire point of having a firearm that can,
use a shotgun shell and a 45 ACP in the same firearm?
I mean, it makes no sense to me.
No, I agree, the only thing I, you know, it seems cool to me, but again, it's,
uh, the Taurus would be a good gun if you expect to get into a bar fight.
Right.
But what are you doing to a bar fight?
Yeah, that's my response.
Sorry, Rich, did it again?
Yeah, I said exactly the same thing.
What are you doing at a bar?
That's not the right situation.
And I don't, I don't agree with the words I just said.
You know, I'm saying, you know, I wouldn't mind having one as a toy, but this would not be the one that I would carry if I was going to carry anything.
So, I got a question and I, I'm kind of new to this, I don't fully understand it.
Why is it a semi-automatic, uh, is always less than a comparable revolver?
There's more parts, more moving parts, more, you know, precisely fitting parts, more complex assembly,
and a semi-automatic pistol, but it always seems like the revolver is more money.
Resale value?
I don't know, revolvers have a reputation of being very reliable, and I think people are paying more for it.
Even though it's, you know, it's a much simpler.
It just might be the materials required.
I don't know.
I, you know, I would think that it would have to be the manufacturer if you're talking, uh, cult Smith and the West,
unless it's Ruger, but no, I, I, I can't think across the board that, uh, revolver should have cost board the Java logo.
I did, uh, I didn't write it down, but I did a little impromptu survey of a gun site just taking a look at all of that.
And, and typically it seems like a comparable revolver to a semi-automatic was more money.
Isn't this so-called Saturday Night Special usually a revolver? The really cheap one?
I don't know. You can get a, you can get an awful cheap automatic, too, these days.
Oh, yeah. I mean, uh, you can get like an LC9 or LCP for, you know, a little bit more than three-order bucks.
Now, Saturday Night Special is typically a 25, and no, it's not a revolver. It's typically a semi.
Saturday Night Special is a Jimenez Arms or Jimenez or Jimenez, whatever you don't call it, uh, in any caliber that they make, it's about $125 gun.
I've got one and, uh, stay away.
And yes, but it actually, the, the Saturday Night Special term is specifically a racial derogatory, uh, of origin.
And...
Oh, really? I didn't know that.
Yeah.
Yeah, just like old gun laws, uh, the, the first gun laws were, uh, racist because they were to prevent the newly freed slaves from defending themselves against the mean white people.
Yes, this is correct, especially in Maryland.
Yeah.
Well, it is. It's also true here in North Carolina, I believe.
I believe here in North Carolina, you still have to get permission from a sheriff or somebody to get a handgun.
I think I don't know any gun myself, but I believe it's whatever it is.
So bring us up to speed. How are either of these things racial?
Okay, it's very simple. Go far enough back into Maryland law.
And this is the one I'm more familiar with, because this is where I live now.
But, um, and you can look at it, MarylandShallissue.org, which is a site trying to make Maryland a shallow issue state, like it used to be.
And the laws basically required you, a man, a land-owning man, to walk around with a firearm where he was going.
I think you were required to have a firearm when you're going to church.
This is like 1700. This is ancient stuff.
And, you know, I haven't looked at this in a little while, but around the time the Civil War, you know, 1846 or so, you know, there's a bunch of, I think that's around the time.
Around the American Civil War started to happen. People started freeing slaves.
You cut out there, bro.
Sorry.
Four minutes.
Effectively, thank you.
You had this whole thing where it's like, oh, look, we have black people ready to own guns.
We can't have this happen, because remember that the people saying this are very racist and very afraid of the idea that, holy crap, we can have these people that we oppress for generations now own firearms.
And remember, if you couldn't enslave them, though, you had to keep them down somehow. This was this whole Jim Crow thing going on.
And so one of the ways to do that was to say, oh, well, may issue is what they call it now when you don't have Shallissue.
So it was like, okay, well, you need a good and substantial reason to have a firearm or a carry permit.
And this law still exists in Maryland as this day.
The police have now reinterpreted what a good and substantial reason is.
But let me tell you, it didn't matter what, you know, it didn't matter what your actual reason were.
If your skin was dark enough, you didn't have a good and substantial reason.
That was why a lot of these gun laws had subjective clauses in it.
It was to keep guns out of the hands of undesirable people.
Sure. Now these days, basically, if you're not white, wealthy and well-connected,
and well-connected means you're basically an elected official at, or, you know, your business owner,
because that's the way it is in Maryland, you're not getting a carry permit.
Two minutes.
Sure. Okay. So now, how about Saturday night special? How was that?
That makes sense.
Wow. I don't even know if I want to go into this because the words and phraseology and everything going into the aren't quite pleasant.
But the trying to think that makes us, as PC as possible.
It's inferring that colored people would get drunk and when they got their paycheck and then buy a Saturday night special to get revenge.
And that's how the term came about.
And it's also where waiting periods came from, right?
Now, minus the part where you said that it was inferred that people of darker skin color would do this.
I always assumed that it was because someone got paid and bought it on a Saturday night.
But I never assumed it had anything to do with rates.
Yeah, for all my life, I didn't know that part either.
But yeah, that's what I assumed it was about is, you know, hey, you're mad and you got your check and you go out and fix things.
But apparently it was a, you know, aimed specifically as a racial issue.
Happy New Year to almost the eastern region of the United States.
Places like, hey, that's me and Canada.
Places like New York, Boston, Rochester, Maryland, Washington, DC, 20,000 feet over Florida, Washington, DC.
Again, I guess, Detroit and Havana, which I don't think is the United States or Canada.
Happy New Year.
Thank you.
I'll be right back.
I have to get my New Year kiss.
And we'll be back.
All right.
Well, you guys are gone.
I will go ahead and remind everybody that one of the main things we are doing this year is talking about the accessible, accessible computing foundation and their fundraiser for the Orca project.
They want to make Orca the best accessibility software available on Linux and actually make it better than almost every commercial product available.
To do this, they need to actually raise a lot of funds.
And they actually have started an Indiegogo campaign to actually do this.
And the website for that for that fundraiser is HTTP colon slash slash IGG dot me slash AT slash Orca.
All right.
My wife gave me my New Year's Eve kiss and said, go away because she's watching the movie.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I know.
All right.
Yeah.
That tells you how much fun that relationship is.
Just kidding.
Well, on New Year's Eve.
And New Year's Day will be different?
Well, it's a holiday.
So we take a little break.
You know, we rest up.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
I shouldn't even go on there.
That was actually kind of wrong.
No, it's not wrong.
That's fine.
Come on with the hell are we here for if it's not to take cheap shots at one another occasionally.
It's not all we do.
I was going to say I've got nothing more lined up in an hour.
So if sound he does, this is time to explain.
All right, guys.
I'm going to slide off for the evening.
Happy New Year.
Take it easy, Rich.
Good to hear from you.
See you later, Rich.
See you guys.
See you, Rich.
Well, we've had a new person join in.
A Neo Dragon is here.
Hi, Neo Dragon.
I didn't call Neo Dragon new.
Well, he's new here.
I don't think he's been on HPR before, but I don't think his audio is working either.
Apparently not.
Well, yeah, I think he should call him new since that's what his name means.
This is true.
Oh, he says he's actually done two episodes already.
Which ones were they?
1432 and 1468.
Oh, you are fast.
It would give me the words.
I don't have any words.
I just know the numbers.
Nice.
Hey, if you can't tell, I'm full of baloney right there.
Nice.
I was just doing just like you earlier when you pull up number out of the air.
I was wondering.
I was really curious.
Like, really?
We have to 1400.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, we are up in the 1400s.
That's why I knew it because when we did the December meeting earlier, I looked at all the
episode numbers.
So I knew we were up in the middle or upper 1400s.
And Neo Dragon, we are seriously in the last couple days.
I wasn't sure it was going to pull off, but talking about doing an all cast planet version
too.
So you're more and welcome to join in if you can with us.
It looks like David Whitman has joined us.
Howdy.
Hey, welcome back, man.
Thank you.
I'm out in Oregon, so it's only 9 o'clock here.
No, I should throw that out there.
I hadn't seen a lot of hype about doing all cast planet version two.
Well, it is last year.
This was something that came out of OCP live, you mean?
Yeah.
OCP live.
And came out of discussions from, you know, like Ohio Linux fast and so on the fact that
self.
Self was when it first came up.
I remember Dan and some of the other guys were sitting around at the restaurant one night and
they were all talking about the idea of having kind of an unconference, you know, call
out.
I don't know if we call it OCP live, but something like that.
No, and I agree, folks, you know, I came in this kind of light after a sort of full fleshed.
But the idea of an uncon where, because a lot of people say, you know, what they got a conference
for is the hallway tracks.
They want to meet up with the other podcaster friends.
And that precludes them from actually a lot of times, lessing to the talks and the scheduled
activities.
But it's in the hallway, it's in going to the restaurants in between, et cetera.
So yeah, this came out of self a year ago.
Let's do a con where, you know, we're just going to hang out.
And we're not going to worry about all that stuff.
We're not going to worry about doing presentations.
And this came to fruition last spring over, you know, the maybe we can.
But last May, and, you know, we hung out around Philly for a weekend for about four days.
And a great time.
And it's going to be the same time.
Memorial Day weekend, you know, this next year, I wasn't sure it was going to come off.
But I've talked about, you know, in the last 24 hours, I've talked to three or four other principles
who were involved last year.
Everybody's up for it.
So I think we're going to do it again this year.
It looks like I'm not familiar with the place, but it's cannobles in the middle of the state of Pennsylvania.
It is like a small amusement park.
So I think that's where the meetup is going to be.
It's not officially yet.
But we're going to, you know, we're going to start making plans.
And everybody who's listening to my voice, if you are having interest in open source, you don't have to be a podcaster.
You don't have to be somebody that we know by name.
But if you would like to come in and hang out, you're more and welcome.
And if you want to be put on the mailing list, you can get a hold of me,
5150 on my email, 5150atleticsbasement.com.
And all that's written out, no numerals.
So it's all written out in words.
So that's a place to start.
And I've been thinking the next two or three days.
I'm going to send out an email to everybody on the old list that we could pile and say, you know, let's get together
and say how many people are interested in doing this again this next year.
And then we've got to decide for sure where we're going to have it because this Knobel's place is not easily accessible for people
who are not driving in, people who are flying in.
We're going to have to work out maybe a ride to get you there as the right place and right time and to get you back out.
So, you know, this, we're in a place where we really need to start planning on this.
So I want to throw it out there.
Hey, not to interrupt, but just real quick.
I want to say happy birthday to someone that's actually listening right now.
I feel sorry for him for doing that, but happy birthday, dad.
You make your dad listen to this happy birthday, Mr. Wurley.
No, no, this is HPR. This isn't the other one.
Yeah, that's true.
Happy birthday, Mr. Wurley.
You can don't, this is Mr. Wurley.
Do you look like in big words?
Does he have a football helmet?
He does have a helmet, but I look more like my mom.
No comment.
No, I'm not even able to tell you the 10 foot hole.
Oh, I'm not even here.
Mr. Wurley, you really need to come out there and get in stakes out of the ceiling.
This is why I'm convinced Pegwall has more freedom to come play with us now
because his erstwhile girlfriend was there.
And she looked up ceiling is framed.
I don't know if I'm going to fail.
Does anybody else have another topic to bring up?
Okay, well, this is one I was going to throw out there.
And I think it's probably a BS topic because I haven't had a lot of confirmation.
But this whole thing, there's been going around that canonical wants to charge derivative distros, a licensing fee.
I think he wish he said before it was like they wanted to charge AFE for access to their repositories.
And then I can see, I mean, you know, I'm not saying it's right.
I'm just saying that, okay, maybe they have a lake to stand on there.
Yeah, you make a derivative distro and you've dropped canonical repository for everything.
And they say, well, no, this is made for our users.
But how do you determine?
I mean, it'd be awful easy to hack that if you're throwing down a derivative distro out there.
I think it'd be real easy to build into your update structure to say, oh yeah, make it look like we're coming from.
You vote too.
Sorry, I was trying to hit my up or my home key and I kept hitting the scroll lock.
Is that your push to talk button?
Yeah, scroll locks my push to talk.
And of course, I was trying to hit the home key right below it.
I will say, I will say I'm not even had actual email for Jono.
I did try late last night because I figured this thing would have been sorted out long before this podcast because it came out early last week.
And apparently everything links back to distrocast article where they're interviewing some guys from Mint.
And they said, yeah, canonical has come and said maybe you guys should be paying us.
But I figured this would have been sorted out long since then.
And I looked last night, late last night, and I couldn't find anything beyond the original distrocast article.
So I did see if I could find an address for Jono.
And it was reference one place, Jono at canonical.com, which is probably BS.
But I sent an email out on that address, which was not rejected.
Hey, can you confirm or deny that canonical is actually going to go around and try to charge Mint and other drisophists?
Okay, well, I found something on this on a distro watch.
And it sounds like it was possibly something of a misunderstanding about the way Mint goes through and handles their security updates.
And somebody from canonical might have made a joking statement that because of Mint's update process that they should charge for access to their repositories.
And that was even then picked up by some other canonical employees and misinterpreted.
And so it kind of spread from there.
At least that's what I'm getting really quick from this article, which I'll pop into the chat and the show notes real quick here.
Yeah, the original source seems to be the distroach article.
It seems to be coming off of this currency a month ago where people from canonical and Ubuntu made the statement.
Well, yeah, you can go for Mint, but Mint doesn't update their security nearly as often as Ubuntu does.
So you're running behind in your security.
That was a whole thing. It was a temp as in a tea pot, wasn't it?
Well, I think this is too, but apparently a Mint developers, you know, has gone on to say, yeah, canonical said, well, maybe you guys should pay us for our work.
And it's been implied maybe for the access to their repositories.
So other derivative Ubuntu works, say, Bode, I think Bode has completely separate repositories.
So they might they might be exempt, whereas Mint, essentially, they use the canonical repositories plus a couple of their own, you know, for the advanced.
Or at least they're, they're using the untested canonical repose, the CID repose, so.
Honestly, the way I read this right now without reading too carefully is it sounds like a couple of flip comments were made and they were basically completely blown out of proportion and misinterpreted.
Well, I think so. It just seems like.
Meaning what else is now? Yeah, well, I mean, it seems like the latest thing from canonical. I mean that they've they've had a history in the last month or two of some severely blown out of proportion, messed up statements.
Now, I, you know, I'd like to hear somebody from canonical refute this that says, oh, this is this is under the sentiment people.
Because I can't I can't imagine this is something that would come out of the head office of canonical, because I can't think of anything that would.
Right. Yeah, that would wreck their public trust as fast as pulling something like this.
This almost sounds like the case and it's actually kind of ties in. What was that earlier, the earlier thing about the canonical, the new canonical employee who was going around trying to enforce their copyright and actually tried to force it on.
I mean, was it fixed fixed on Boutou site or whatever? You know, basically sent them an email saying that they couldn't use the Boutou name and all that.
It sounds like a similar situation, where this all for great work actually made statements that about things that he did not understand and then actually another at least one other employee of canonical.
Benjamin, Karenza, actually made a similar statement based on not understanding what men's update processes.
Well, yeah, that's this is actually a post of last night that that end that new intern certainly seems to get around.
You know, I actually sent if it's an actual email address for for John, I invite him to come on this podcast and, you know, either, you know, say this is not a thing.
This is, you know, this is BS or if it is something that you're trying to do, you know, trying, trying to get redress for for the effort they put into their repositories to come out and explain themselves.
So, you know, by, I didn't really expect a response and, you know, let's say I'm more inclined to think this, this is misinterpretation.
Everybody is inclined to, you know, believe this.
You know, some, some evil conspiracy by canonical rather than just looking at on the face value, well, maybe a little behind and then they're saying what was going on.
Okay, I just got down to another part of this story and this is the part that maybe a little bit more important here.
The third point that was made is a guy wrote the article says, third, and I think this is a point other Linux news websites are ignoring.
Clem claims that he has been asked by canonicals legal department to license the binary packages used by Ubuntu.
That is very different and that is a scarier concept at this point.
Well, see, that's what I was thinking at essentially that Ubuntu would be saying, you know, unless you're, you're, unless you're running Ubuntu, you can't hit our, you know, our repo servers.
And there are derivative pitches like I think I think Bode has their own repo servers, but I do I'm pretty sure a mint and a lot of other other derivative works have a combination of the Ubuntu repos in their own.
I see a thing I think it's scarier about this is there there's another possible scenario where something like this could come up if if this kind of arrangement does happen.
And I think, you know, here's the question then what happens say between Red Hat and Sentos, you know, if that, if that starts becoming a standard, we see, you know, several distributions like this going this route.
Then that's a, I think a potentially dangerous precedent to set, but maybe it won't be a big deal.
Well, I'm is if this was something red has followed because I mean red hat has used, you know, Fedora and red hat has pulled this kind of stuff not to this level.
They have basically changed the way they push their updates to piss off Oracle.
Well, that's a very different thing because Oracle is actually taking the red hat source code and ripping out all the, the labeling and stuff and then turning around and selling it and actually making an almost proprietary version of Linux because as they have a right to do, it is free software.
Yeah, it's a double edged sword here.
It's free software, but it gets a little more questionable when they're basically feeding off the back of another company and then saying our version is better.
I see no difference. I hate to do it, but I really see no difference here.
Mint is a derivative of like Oracle Unbreakable Linux is a derivative of red hat.
Yeah, you can get the company, but remember free software does not discriminate against fields of endeavor. So we don't get to either.
The one difference is marketing, which is not a real difference. It's just how one is described as opposed to the other.
Exactly. We don't get to play those games.
Yeah, I'm not questioning whether canonical has a philosophical right to do this. I mean, they can say, you know, yeah, we're tired of maintaining.
You know, maintaining website repose for everybody else who chooses to use our software and build upon it.
But I think if they do this, I think the backlash is going to be the open source community is going to entirely abandon Ubuntu and they're going to be out there on their own.
I don't know about that. And I do agree with problem. I mean, it is, it is, you know, their right to actually go ahead and charge us.
I mean, I don't disagree with that that, you know, on the simple playing facts and the straightforward understanding of how things work.
Yes, they are perfectly within their rights. However, I think from a standpoint of what this does to the Linux community and what this does to the relationship between different respans.
That could be a bit of a change because it would just be another one of these roadblocks that actually kind of stops the upstream communication and stuff to actually handle things.
If they're going to put up these kind of blocks between different projects, that's where I see a more potential for an issue.
Well, I'm going to say all these crap and bugs that are getting shoved upstream.
Covered to your levels are a bit low.
Not a bit very low.
Yeah, I'm going to say, you know, all these distributions that are based on Ubuntu are going to move themselves to Debian said, which is going to mean they've got to do, you know, somewhat more testing on their own end.
Where they've been relying on canonical to work things.
Wasn't that the whole point of Linux Mint Debian Edition?
No, I disagree because I've run Debian Edition and at least in the last incarnation, maybe not the last, the newest Debian, but I kept running into stuff that if I wanted it, I had to self compile.
I mean, I'd like to say also happy birthday to Harley and body.
Hey, everybody, Harley.
Happy birthday, Harley.
I did not realize he was a New Year's baby.
Neither did I.
I guess I see, I mean, we've seen a number of changes that have moved through the different Linux communities and the different distros and that it's really changed the dynamic of the community overall.
And I just would be concerned that there would be ramifications from this kind of a change or this kind of a situation coming up.
That's what I'd be more concerned about than whether or not logistically or legally or, you know, ethically or morally any of this is right or wrong.
Well, I'll give you my little, you know, Odyssey in the past few weeks because I was actively trying to avoid a Ubuntu derivative setting up on a system I need, I need to rebuild.
This is the kitchen system that I'd set up and eventually gone belly up because of the SSD.
I had had Ubuntu on it and when I went back on the brand new SSD, I want to try something different.
So I went with open scissor tumbleweed as far as their rolling rolling release or semi rolling.
And I don't know if it was probably the open scissor or if tumbleweed or because I'd added in packages that I wanted to have that were not represented directly in tumbleweed and, you know, I'd gone as close as I could in open scissor, but I didn't update one day and it kept coming up with, well, we can't do this package here.
We can do this package in library X. It was all over the place and when I updated and rebooted, nothing worked.
I mean, it would take, oh, 25, 30 minutes, rebooting computer for the X prompt to appear.
And then even after I got that far, most of your X applications wouldn't work.
I finally, you know, copied it. I was able to copper thing off to an external USB hard drive or at least everything in my home directory.
And I said, well, I'm going to, I'm going to go back with something different. I was looking around on to see what the hotness on distra watch and I tried a new open mandrake LX and had some menus from Rosa.
I thought, well, look at that. And I should have, I, I really should have installed that and played with it in a live CD rather just installing it.
That's my fault. But I got into it and the menu where you go in the menu for application and it's just, you know, scroll right, scroll right,
till you get, till you get the application. No, no organization or anything. And, you know, I, I had wanted to look at this Rosa interface.
And if that's it, you know, I've got no use for, you know, I have criticized, I know and unity for a non hierarchical application interface.
And so both of these throw everything just in one place and let's scroll left find the application you're looking for just to stop my thing. So I got out of that.
But, you know, I haven't had time to really mess around with my system last several weeks. I've been using it just like a Chromebook.
I mean, I've been using it as a, you know, pure web interface without installing anything and coming down near to the, you know, the participation in these VR shows, I thought, well, I need to find something to get on.
So, you know, I tried to install last night. Well, I've been looking at them because this whole thing, I've been thinking of, you know, 50 between you and half a bottle of wine I drank. I'm about to fall asleep here. So many need some coffee to continue.
Yeah, I've been kind of bogarting, bogarting the lake, but you sure should have.
Not as bad as some other people today, but, you know, no, no, but I think I've had enough wine that it's really, it's wearing down.
You know, I think 5150 should read like Anna Kareniner or something and we could market it as a sleep air.
I'll tell you what, I'll give you guys five minutes. I'll go get a beer and all.
Oh, that'll help.
As long as I still don't have five minutes of dead air, does that mean I have to come up with a topic again?
Well, maybe we can get Peter 64 to join us.
You see, classic literature.
No, we've already embarrassed you in front of your dad.
No, it'll put pokey to sleep. I'll just start. They were the best of times. They were the worst of times.
All peg will cuddle me again for that one, will you?
How dare.
No, we have somebody new in the room here at Underrunner.
We have quite a few new people in the room.
The Underrunner's been in and out all day. How you doing, man?
I'm doing all right. I had to leave earlier and I didn't want to stay logged in.
Tell us about Christmas lights, will you?
Yeah, I did that episode about a Christmas light synchronization.
I didn't get a lot of feedback on it, so I wasn't sure if people are actually interested in that or not.
I'm a little behind and I can't tell what my MP3 player is doing lately.
Usually they're just alphabetical or numerical, but for some reason they haven't been and I've been getting newer ones and I haven't got to yours yet.
I apologize.
I wanted to rush it in there, too, to try and inspire anyone to get on board with it before the holiday season.
If you start it in January, you get burnt out before December comes round again.
So start in August, you're saying?
That's actually when I did get started. Not knowing anything. It was about August when I did start, yeah.
Cool. Yeah, I'm behind by a bunch of shows. It's my fault, not yours.
Are you a little behind?
I think I'm more than a little behind. I'm probably 15 or 20 shows behind, I guess.
Never mind. I'm trying to dance around you with puns and I'm failing miserably because it's midnight here.
Everybody's dancing around me right now. I've had a little too much to drink.
Oh, and let's put it this way. You're still a little more caught up than I am.
Oh, I'm so behind on listening to podcasts. It's weird. I haven't been involved with HPR a lot recently.
Yeah, I'm at least a good five or six months behind.
Oh, geez.
Yeah. I go on a tour. I'll go through and check out a bunch of episodes and scan through them and see which ones are interesting and try to listen to ones that I like.
But like, especially now with doing my own music show and stuff and doing reviews of music, that's what I'm listening to almost 24 seven.
I got music all the time, especially writing three reviews a week for my site and then trying to write in another review every week or two for another website.
I can understand. You know, I'll do the same thing like I like all of a sudden they'll come up on my MP3 player.
You know, I'll get to that point where there's HPR and I'll hear eight or 10 of them in a row.
And for eight or 10 shows in a row, go, wow, I forgot how good this is.
We see the other thing is that the big 10 that I actually would have to listen to stuff is either when I'm driving to and from work,
which is only about a 15 minute drive anyway or when I'm at work.
And I really can't listen to talk type stuff while I'm trying to work that just doesn't work for me.
Yeah. So anyway, back to Christmas lights.
Actually, I was kind of thinking about my lights, you know, because they're only useful for a couple of weeks out of the year.
So, you know, I actually pulled the Arduino out of the system. I got it sitting here on my desk and I was thinking about investigating and making it into a fireworks launcher.
Nice. What did your lights do? Were they just synchronized with one another? Or did you have them synchronized to music? Or what did yours do?
Is this thing on? Yes, it is. I wasn't talking at all.
No, you were talking to the big red button. Is it like to see it in my workplace?
Well, I used it for ventrilo. I used to use control, but I got this KVM hooked up so I made sure not to use control.
And my finger naturally went there. Got it. Okay, yes. So what are your lights? What did your lights do this year? What did you have to do?
The most amount I was able to get them to do is I got 47 strings together, all knackered up the individual relays and I was able to partially get them to blink the way I wanted them to.
I was still having a lot of issues with getting the, I don't know if you've ever heard of XBs, but I'm using that as a wireless serial emulator, I guess, to connect from the laptop to the Arduino.
And I was having a bunch of dropouts and they didn't really synchronize the best way. So I just kind of had it on a random pattern.
All right, what's neat? Now, what about these relays that you're using? Are these a commercial relay or is there something you made up here?
No, they're commercial. I got them from like Saint Smart before the holidays. They were selling them pretty cheap. You could get like an eight relay module where they all come connected and they got the pin outs on them and you just wire them straight to the Arduino.
And then, but I got those and then I, they made some 16 channel ones and for like 20 bucks, you couldn't beat the price. You couldn't build them for the same cost.
No, 20 bucks for 16 channels. And each channel is 110 volts. Yeah, the channel is 110 volts and the real, you know, they're kind of universal.
So they actually work with on the European, but I think they're rated up to 230 volts. Oh, wow. That's pretty cool. Are the mechanical relays, do you know, or are they?
Yeah, they're mechanical relays. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely. You know, I started off using some instructables to try and learn my way through it.
One guy he had actually written an entire Arduino sketch for jingle bells. And it was only eight channels or something like that. There's the relays would actually click the noise.
So you could tell what was playing without even having lights hooked up. No, did they have clear plastic covers so you can see him throwing great big sparks too or is it just the clacky noise?
Well, it's just a clacky noise or blue nontransparent. You can't see inside of them or anything like that. Right, right. Okay. That's cool, man. I saw some really, really interesting.
Yeah, Christmas lights earlier this year and the guy really should have quit while he was ahead, but he had like a split level house within attached garage and it was kind of set back from the road.
So the picture, you know, was was, you know, a long low rectangle and it was kind of set back and very dark and he had put some like light blue LEDs all across the front of the house.
They must have been the kind of, you know, they hung from the from the eaves all the way to the ground and they were just kind of random.
And it was the only lights he had on there the first day that I went by and they were so dim you could barely see them.
It was just the one color and they were solid and they were dim and barely visible and it was the coolest looking light display I ever saw.
And then he went and ruined it by putting a bunch of white lights on the garage and colored lights on the the bush that he had between the house and the garage.
But that first day it was the simplest and still the most impressive light display I'd seen at Christmas.
My display was kind of opposite. It wasn't, I can't say I overdid it at all because my front yard is about an acre.
So I got tons of room. So I ended up putting up like a 13 foot mega tree and then I got all these pine trees out in the front.
So I was able to string up about, I guess about 20 feet off the ground.
I did these dixie cups. You can get these clear plastic dixie cups and you just take a soldering iron to them and you can make a sphere out of them.
And I would ran all the Christmas lights into those and hung when I had a 13 of them hanging out of the trees and they were all individually connected to the Arduino.
So they all individually controlled.
Cool. Was your wife on board with all this? Are you married or was this all your idea?
Or was it a request from her? How did that go politically?
Yeah. Right on.
Yeah, she was on board with it, but you know, you start a project like this in August and it didn't take long for her to get burnt out on it.
Yeah. So did Peter 64 wants to know if you got any video of your light display?
I got some on my phone. I don't haven't got it uploaded anywhere.
If Peter 64 wanted video, he should have flown over and taken it.
Now he has to come in here to tell you off or making that statement.
Yeah, of course. Did you get any other kind of like pushback from your wife's family?
Once my wife gets fed up with something I'm doing, the rest of her family's got to give me a little jab here and there.
I don't live anywhere near them. We're like originally from the West Coast, but now we're just a two of us living out here on the East Coast.
I don't get very much crap, you know.
Yeah. How far up the East Coast are you?
We're in South Carolina.
Oh, cool. That's a beautiful country down there.
Yeah, originally living up there at a DC and got a job offer down here and came down.
Just never been down here before.
Looked out at once and knew it was instantly better than DC.
Moved immediately.
That's beautiful country. I got to visit there at least once before I'm done.
Yeah.
So the Christmas light thing though is it is extremely expensive.
I tried talking about the way I went where I got a big box, a PVC water type box where I put all the relays in the Arduino and I got it all mounted in there.
Another way you could do it is you could actually put the relay at the Christmas light, but then you would have to run like two wires that have to send five volts all the way out to the end of the wire.
Yeah, yeah.
Which could be cheaper, but I ended up getting like 18.
Yeah, 18 gauge, 18 to gauge a landscaping wire from Home Depot and I came in 500 foot rolls and I think I ended up going through six of those.
Whoa. What else about 150 bucks a piece, too?
There's 90 bucks a piece of cheese.
Yeah, and it's extremely heavy and this is kind of weird looking at the mega tree because I got a star on the top and I got all these lights around it and then I zipped tied this bundle of a 32 individual string, you know, wires all together.
And on those I actually ran the neutrals on them instead of trying to tie them together differently.
Oh right, right, okay.
Because like on the balls that I hung from the tree I actually tied those neutrals together so it saved me, you know, seven extra wires running in there.
Yeah. What did your electric bill look like after a month of display in this?
Well, I haven't got it yet.
Oh yeah, it's coming in a couple days.
I was just about to say you probably haven't got it yet. Oh, we need an update then.
Yeah, I got it all hooked up to my garage because I had some empty, well, my garage is brand new and I don't have hardly anything in that panel.
So I know that I've been spending $33 a month on the garage so I'll easily be able to tell if it costs more.
Oh yeah. Did you, did you pop any circuit breakers? Did you have to reset any circuit breakers?
No, I actually did pretty good.
I got it coming up overhead out of the breaker and I did 20 amp breakers into two GFC outlets and then from there I got it passed through in a trench through the yard out front.
Oh yeah. Well, if you didn't pop any breakers, that's a good sign.
Yeah, like all the old stuff, like all the lights that were hooked up to it were all LEDs.
But all the other stuff that was non-LED, I actually put it on a different circuit.
And if it rains, I mean my wife's got this herd of deer, those white crappy deer.
I think she's probably got about 12 of them that she sticks out on the yard.
And I don't know, it rains, it pops at the circuit every time.
Oh right, because it's GFCI though, it's just popping that GFCI out of it, not the breaker, right?
Yeah, it just pops at GFCI, so not no big deal.
Yeah, no, no, that's actually, that's not bad at all. Well, that's really cool.
Man, you're so lucky I'm not your neighbor because I would have snuck over there and put in one of those flashing bulbs right when you weren't looking.
Yeah, well, do they make them for LEDs?
No, no, I don't know.
Wow, I can imagine the reduction, how much you must have saved in electricity just using LEDs.
But were the light strings, they must have been a lot more expensive to be LED though, right?
Yeah, they're a lot more expensive.
You know, honestly, I don't know what the best way to go is with them because a traditional mini bulb, right, it's this piece of glass.
And it's got two wires coming out of it, and I've only ever seen them be copper wires coming out of it.
But you got these LEDs where they're not using copper wire, they're using, you know, I don't know what it is, galvanized steel.
I don't even think it's galvanized.
And, you know, I got some that I used to hang on the roof back, backups, you know, back up these coasts, and they're dead.
They've all sat there and they've all rusted out.
Did I press scroll again?
No, dude, we're here. I think we've just been on the podcast most of the day, and we're all fading.
I'm fading, Pokey's fading.
Sound chase just faded.
5150, I think still is getting his beer.
It's not that your topic is interesting or not.
Yeah, we're just all dead.
Hey, hey, you break out the stimulants, man.
I might just grab a cat or something.
Make sure you grab it by the tail.
Oh, no, I'd rather keep on my blood.
Yeah, he was running, running on.
I logged in when he was going and it was just slowly coming out.
I've had a hell of a night if you want to change the subject.
Hit me.
I moved a friend today.
It's had four quibs and a dirt bike in the back of a U-Haul that should have only fit three of them.
Oh, and everything in the house was there too.
Sounds like a good die, but you said it was hell.
How much did you have to load into the car or the U-Haul?
Just four quads.
That doesn't sound too bad.
They got wheels, right?
Yeah.
Party's going to begin now.
Yeah, it's Peter 64 is here.
Sorry, man.
You've had a hell of a night, but Peter 64 is here to tell us all about January 2nd.
No, it's not the second half.
He's five o'clock in the hour, but...
Well, how many Peter? It's been a while.
Yeah, it went too long.
You'd be like supposed to be newly talked out of this.
Yeah, so we need some new talkers to talk, so talk.
Well, okay. You're talking about Christmas lights.
I'll tell you a little story about Christmas lights.
When you're playing with LED's, don't always assume they're 12 volts.
Because just quickly I'll tell you what I did this year.
We had a big string out the front and two strings, actually,
that were on two different separate controllers.
And bloody water went down to lead into one of the control boxes and sure to that.
That's a lot of bloody things.
And then I got this smart idea where I thought, okay, what I'll do,
I'll just...
There's three wires coming out each control box.
They're identical.
I thought, well, stuff it.
I'll just hook the wires up to the other control box and run it all up one.
And then I'd like there about 0.2 millimeter wires, tiny little things.
And I thought, I did want to solder them or anything like that.
So I just cut them out off the back control box.
And I got pins and I pushed through the ends of them.
And I thought, I'm just going to insert them and push them through the other wires.
And I'll just bend the pins over and then I'll just tape it all up.
And it'll be easy to get it going.
Because I've been playing with bloody Christmas lights all day.
And of course, guess what?
They weren't 12 volts.
They even crushed my mind because just about every single one I've done all day at 12 volts,
they're bloody 240.
So as I pushed the pins through into the active wire, holy shit,
bloody burn on me finger.
So this bloody pain right at me, right arm.
So just a word of warning, don't assume all bloody Christmas LEDs are 12 volts.
I've got a couple sets of...
Did you wake up?
Sorry, cover up.
I said, did you wake up after that?
Ah, tell you.
A bloody hot set.
And I don't know how many of you'd like to have been electrocuted or electrocuted yourself.
I mean, over the years, I've done it a few times.
But it's funny after you've done it.
And I don't know if it's the thought of you actually thought,
well, you could have just killed yourself.
But you feel a little bit nauseated.
And I don't know if it's the actual electricity guns where your body makes you feel that way.
It's the thought that you nearly just killed yourself to make you a little bit sick.
So how do you bring yourself back from the dead beer?
No, it's livin' them up.
Yeah, I'm livin' them up.
He said he was electrocuted.
Wow.
He said he was electrocuted.
Yeah, but that was down under electrocution.
That doesn't kill people.
That actually brings back to life.
Yeah, that's a lot of time.
Let's start with the Australia jokes.
I'll tell you what, it didn't tickle.
I'm glad he's at me.
That me good.
I keep in mind there are a couple ways to tell what kind of thing.
Just to be a bit of intake.
A electrocute means to execute using electricity.
So in Australia's Frankenstein's monster just a living dude in a land full of zombies?
You're a funny man.
Well, probably then what would you actually say?
Like the typical person would say electrocute themselves.
What was the problem?
Yeah, so what?
What was the problem?
Turned by electric shock.
I mean, not to people who have shocked themselves with electricity.
Oh, yeah.
Well, that makes sense.
Yeah.
Well, that's fair enough.
But anyway, I got a bloody good shock.
I'll tell ya.
Yeah, when I was a kid, I had this metal toy airplane.
I think it was like a fighter plane.
I had a long pointy nose.
And I stuck it in a round outlet once.
And I got a little bit of a jolid like,
no, that was a bad idea.
I shouldn't do that again.
Yeah, I tell you another classic.
And this is going back when I was just a little.
I was at my cousin's house and we hooked up for the electric train.
Now, I don't know how old I was.
I'm probably only about six or seven.
And I had no idea what a bloody transformer was back then.
So there was the wires come off the track.
And I thought, I just plugged these in the bloody power point.
So I stuck them in the power point and turned it on.
And you've never seen an electric train go so fast.
Well, actually, at any, at any speed,
it went straight up as it blew up on the track.
I'll never forget that day.
So the strings of light, you know,
they're on its own from the manufacturer.
Like, I've, I've experienced at the first LED coming off the mail side.
Normally has a resistor soldered on the end of it.
Two minutes.
Go on.
What times are I'm standing?
It'll be central time this time.
Yes, it'll be the midwest central time central region.
Is that you?
Yep.
Is that like ads?
As well, mountain time.
No, mountain.
Mountain times next hour.
Mountain times next hour.
That'd be me too.
So this is the J-man.
So would that be me?
I don't know where J-man's at.
I ran Knoxville.
I mean him or in the same time zone.
So you guys.
Eastern, aren't you?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I guess between they and they.
So you already missed it.
Eastern already went about 59 minutes ago.
Well, since we're kind of at a natural break at this point,
might as well go ahead and wish a happy new year to the people in the midwest
of the United States and in the central time zone.
Some of the and some regions and some regions in Canada.
Some of the cities would include Mexico City, Chicago, Guatemala,
Dallas, Omaha, Nebraska, and so on.
To pick a Kansas.
To pick a Kansas.
There you go.
So how many of your guys?
Are they re-sinking recordings at this point or no?
Yes, we will be re-sinking recordings.
And I think 51.50s in this time zone two.
Yeah.
But I think he time traveled because he's totally late from back from his beer.
Yeah, I can tell.
He's like traveled into the future someplace.
In before we visit the band.
At least quite two.
It's quite two being on a door.
Nope, he hasn't had been here at all.
Conspicuously absent.
I've hardly even seen him in the chat lightly, but I mean,
just every other year he's been on just about non-stop, isn't he?
Yeah, he was actually on more than me last year.
Yeah, I'd say at least 30 of the 36 hours if not more.
I was 24 hours last year.
I'm fading.
So I think I'm going to call it.
Good night, bro.
I'm happy new year.
Good night.
Happy new year, guys.
Happy new year, bro.
I'm great hanging with you.
Yeah.
Well, I'll be on the combined Dev random KPO next week or whatever it is,
but it'll be Dev random standards.
So don't expect much out at me other than bad puns in Australia jokes.
I've been saving them all.
How far has it run?
We did that talk.
Did anyone mention that the Jonathan while I was on?
Yes, we did right before he left and he was all for it.
Yeah, in hours.
I went and bought the shooting in the email and was on the news.
I mean, we were in rare form earlier.
We were ripping on him for being blind, but he took it really well.
We were just joking with him, too.
Ah, he crashed like honestly.
That's not what we'd run.
The best thing was when he came back and he actually told Poki
that he didn't read the ingredients on the bottle or he didn't read the label.
On a bottle.
Yeah, he hit the top left.
That not itself is unbelievable.
Let me get that.
He's a funny man.
And he led to some good natural recording breaks.
You know, you got him going about his project that we probably owe a shout out to.
Yes, we do.
And part of what we are doing the show for this year is the Accessible Computing Foundation
and the funding of their project to transfer or to make Orca
into a world leading and world class accessibility software package for disabled users.
And they have a fundraising effort undergoing right now.
And they're funding it through Indiegogo.
And the website is HTTP colon slash slash IGG.me slash AT slash O-R-C-A.
Please visit the site and please make a donation to them.
They really, really need to do this so they can actually make free software for disabled people available.
And it needs to be the best software they can possibly make.
Yeah, and I donated earlier as did you Sound Chaser.
So, you know, you're in good company if you donate this during this show.
And 5150 donated too.
I missed that.
Hey, Sound Chaser, I thought you were actually stomping under the table while you were saying that
because it was perfectly in time with your speech.
And then I realized it was fireworks.
Yeah, exactly.
It's fireworks.
It's like my window.
Yeah.
I can't believe I never heard them do fireworks here before.
I'm actually stunned by this one.
We had some hair earlier, but it's probably just the neighbor's set and crap off.
Well, that's the thing here.
The only time you're allowed to actually have fireworks is on the 4th of July.
So, the fact that my neighbors are blowing off stuff now,
I would never have guessed that they would have this stuff.
Especially also because by this time of year, we're normally buried in two to, you know,
a couple of feet of snow.
So, going outside and letting off fireworks on New Year's,
it's typically not something you're going to be doing.
You got some new redneck neighbors.
I've had redneck neighbors for quite a while.
This is what I want to get out of this place and move back into the city.
Here, hold my pants.
My pants are hurt.
I'm worried I'm going to have hurt because I'm half redneck.
Well, you actually have to be out in this area to understand why I want out.
It's basically a cross between suburban hell and, well, a couple other factors that I wouldn't get into.
So, you're saying that you need me as a neighbor to show them how it's really done?
No, you can move in after I'm gone and show them how it's really done.
I'll show them how to make meth.
And grilled cheese sandwiches.
Go ahead, cover two.
What is a mutually exclusive?
Damn it.
What is a redneck saying before he does?
How you all watch this?
There you go.
Tonight is the eve of Oregon's juvenile elk season.
Okay.
Is the people pumping gas?
It's not like Oregon's juvenile elk season.
I didn't get that at first.
Did you want to drag out if you got a drag one out?
No, it's when the kids, under 18, they can get a tag for shooting a cow elk starting tomorrow at sunrise.
Does that mean you'll be wearing orange for the rest of the day?
Well, I'm not the rest of the season.
Not 18 and I don't live in Oregon anymore, but growing up, I never celebrated New Year's.
I had to go to bed at eight o'clock because you were getting up early.
Screw that.
Just stay up all night.
That's what we did.
My deer hunting days are beyond me.
I miss mine.
There's some big deer up here that I hadn't been able to shoot and it kills me sometimes.
Get a bow.
I got my first deer this year, but he was talking about elk, so I don't know why you guys are changing the subject.
Because it's close enough and we don't have elk out this far east.
Yeah, I know, I'm kidding.
Yeah, I got my first this year.
Array me.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
What a dress out to.
168, eight pointer.
Nice deer.
That sure was.
Shot him right out of the air.
Virginia law, if you get a deer tag and you happen to see an elk, you can supplement that and you shoot the elk.
And it'll count as one deer.
Really?
Yeah, there's a population close to Virginia and sometimes they do up over them.
Oh, you broke up that last two bits you just said there.
I was saying that on the bus side of Virginia, there's an elk supposedly.
There's an elk herd nearby and they, I guess they cross a border.
And if they happen to cross a border while you're out there, deer hunting, you can harvest that.
You allowed to hunt with dogs out there?
You know, I never really got into it in Virginia or anywhere on these coats.
Is everything you're breaking again?
Hard.
He sounds like 5150.
They must have the same lifespan.
And the same microwave.
You know, those 5150s actually sounded good tonight.
I'm trying to figure out who's ISP he stole.
I think Google finally ran their fiber out there or something.
Everyone down on the ground, we don't want to hurt you.
We just came here for your Wi-Fi.
Wouldn't hurt my feelings of Google or Drone Fiber here.
Wouldn't hurt my feelings if they ran it here too.
I'm sure it would hurt my feelings, but I'm not sure why.
I don't know, man.
I'd let Google view my encrypted crap so that I can have really fast internet speed.
I was going to say that that direct pipeline to the NSA might be a thing.
I think about that, Cobra is.
Remember, they keep that data longer if it's encrypted.
Yeah, but that doesn't mean they'll still have enough time to break it.
He has to be interesting.
That's the whole point of encryption that people miss on Chaser is that a determined enough attacker will get in.
It's just how much can you frustrate them?
He's a podcaster, of course, he's interesting.
Yeah, but it doesn't matter if it takes 50 years to decrypt it.
Nobody will care by then.
Well, A, this is the NSA.
Do you think it would really take 50 years?
And B, this is Cobra 2 we're talking about.
He's not that interesting.
He's not that interesting, fun.
I'm just joking. Do you just give any crap?
Do I sound better at all?
Yes.
Well, Peter 64 is not interesting to the NSA because they can't figure out how to flip all his text upside down.
Thanks so far to my password.
That's why.
That's because they haven't flipped their keyboard upside down.
Oh, that's how it is.
Oh, we have to M now.
And I'm not going to say it because they can't try them words.
Not letters.
Isn't that right, Peggy?
Hey, Peter, I just tried this dyslexic font and the bottoms are heavy.
They couldn't flip them upside down if they tried.
That's good.
What Neil, the other thing is they can't figure out how to break Peter's password because they're looking at their monitors.
I'm not looking at the back of the monitors.
Are you glad you got mine?
Yeah, what they need to do to figure out Peter's password is look at the bottom of his keyboard.
No, they need to look at his lawnmower. That's how it logs in.
He's got the whole alphabet under there and just crosses off whichever one he's already used.
And they think that's some kind of encryption.
What the hell does this mean?
Shit, that was good.
All right, all right.
I'm really done now.
I'll see you guys tomorrow.
Say it back home.
Sleep well.
Hello, I'm happy New Year.
Where's my testing plane, Brian?
I haven't seen anything.
Oh, she actually logged into the server and tested the lounge.
And then, well, I don't know.
She hasn't wanted to log in.
But, you know, I actually got her a headset and got her connected.
I thought you might have been driven off, but that was just a guess.
No, no, she's been, I guess, horribly engrossed in these articles about birth defects for some reason.
I don't know why we're never having children.
That's what you think.
But, now, I should wake up one day with this little look in the eye and then you're going to be in trouble.
No, there will be none of that.
It's all going to start with, we need to talk.
We're a big look in her eye and you'll be a happy man.
No, I'm the one that was like on the fence about being child-free.
She's way over in child freedom.
Yeah, she'll come around.
Why don't you have one, then you wish you had another boy, but tell ya.
Jesus, you know, you think of the last group of people to pick up a group of hackers?
I'm on your side, dude.
Yeah, and you just had a kit.
You have a seven-month hold.
I'm on your side, too, bro.
I'm too tired to stay up anymore.
That's why I live halfway across the country.
Oh, wait, three-quarters of the way.
Wait, wait, that wasn't just a happy accident that you needed the cash for?
Well, I thought it was a plant.
Yeah, there was that.
But it needed work because she got knocked up.
See, I don't have this problem.
I have the exact opposite.
She's on this medication that requires her to sign into some stupid FDA-sponsored website
and promise that she'll use two forms of birth control until she's off the meds.
I was on meds like that one.
Every month.
Oh, and the best part is, like, apparently this site really only works well in Internet Explorer.
Wait, Polka, you actually had to sign into the FDA and tell me you were going to use birth control?
Yeah, I had to swear that I wasn't going to get pregnant.
I pledge, right?
Yeah, it actually was.
Yeah, that's how I know.
See, this is the second time she's been on this meds, but the first time she didn't have to do this craziness.
This must be something.
I think they started it in, like, 2005.
And the pharmacist was like, oh, yeah, we've stopped all these birth defects.
It's like you do realize that the medication is covered in, like, female pregnant patients do not get pregnant.
Like, they have, like, no baby signs over everything.
Like, the little blister packs, every single piece of every single blister pack has, like, a no baby sign over.
Like, if they could smack you any more in the face with seriously people, don't get pregnant.
And, like, they just stand on your forehead.
Yeah, and they give you eight pages of diagrams of, like, the most grotesque birth defects that the Mutter Museum would reject.
It's, it's crazy.
He's speaking of what?
That was fun.
What kind of medication is this?
It's, I swear.
I was the one I was on.
Acutane.
That's the stuff.
Yeah, it's an acne medicine.
Probably going to smack me for saying that, but hey, we're discussing the bitchy side effects.
Well, the weird thing was when they put me on and they're telling me all this stuff.
I said, okay, all right, how does it work?
And they go, we're really not sure, but it seems to change something.
It does some weird things with the texture of your skin.
It causes you to produce less oil.
Apparently, there's some weird side effect about bone structure too, which nobody can figure out what the hell it does.
Well, they literally don't know what it does to you.
They have no idea what, how it works.
They just know that it seems to happen to work if they give you enough of it for a long enough time.
Is this just to stop people's effectively?
Yes, but they're really serious pimples, too.
Well, in my case, it was, they call it cystic acne.
It's the kind that leaves scar and scars and is very painful and covers a lot of your body.
Not bad enough.
Yeah, it's not just, oh, my, you know, my forehead is broken out.
It's like, oh, yeah, 60% of my back kind of hurts when I lean back.
And there's still scars 10 years later.
So, yeah, it's fairly drastic.
But if you want to oversimplify, yeah, it's just to stop some pimples.
Yeah, now it seems to work. It's a little bit more than that.
It can be, but, you know, modern medicine, if you complain loud enough, then they'll give you the medicine for the, you know, first loud as you're complaining.
So it certainly can be.
Now, is that Kavananda Ibamaki?
I don't know. It's only years ago.
I think under Obamacare, if you have to be on it for six months, it's covered.
If you're on it for seven months, you go to the execution panel.
I don't understand about this Obamacare.
Is it not like, you know, midi care, where part of that taxes just go to pay for health care across Australia?
What, what was the big deal?
It wasn't so bad.
The next time I stuffed it upside bad, or really it wasn't stuffed up.
It was supposed to be kind of like that, Peter.
And then the Congress and our Senate get it and fucked it all up.
And the insurance companies got in there with them.
Well, it's a very large complex law with many moving parts.
The devil is in the details, my friend, and the media blitz about how bad it was screwed up was in the bad release of a website.
Yeah, that was at $630 million website that didn't work or whatever.
Well, clearly they didn't pay enough for it.
I'll give it to you in a nutshell of what it's done to the town where I grew up in.
There's a part of it that says, if you're a full-time employee and you're an employee in a company that has more than 50 employees,
the company is required to have a group policy to provide you with health care coverage.
And that policy has put under at least six small businesses back home.
Oh, see, my wife's company is more vigorous than that.
They weren't going to go under just because of Obamacare.
They simply cut everyone back to part time and canceled other health insurance.
The owners and operators of these businesses are full of piss and shit that want to keep their goddamn profits
and don't want to actually be responsible to their employees is what the matter is with them.
Right.
I didn't know it was on tilt.
And now they've been given a perfectly legitimate excuse to do exactly what you just said.
Yeah, jack off and piss on everybody.
Right.
Now they're allowed to do it.
Previously they were not allowed to do it under Obamacare.
It's perfectly legal, moral and ethical to just crap on all their employees.
Now they can.
No, it's not legal.
Well, it's legal, but it's not moral or ethical.
Yeah, but they didn't use to do it.
And now because of Obamacare, they have a damn good reason to do it.
Just looking for it.
No, it's not a damn good reason.
It's bullshit.
It's codified.
It's not.
It's not.
It is legal.
It's not ethical.
It's not ethical.
It's legal, but it's not moral or ethical.
What do you expect them to do?
If it's codified and it's legal and by codifying it, you're basically encouraging it.
You're subsidizing it.
What else would you expect?
I would expect them to actually cover their employees.
Be responsible to the society, to the community, to the people that were working for them.
They have to take their responsibility in order to have an employee above the money-grubbing bullshit.
No, you couldn't possibly expect that, or you're a child.
You can't.
I understand you're upset about it.
We're all upset about it, but to expect anything other than what happened is living in a fantasy world.
I've had my grandfathers responsible to their shareholders or owners.
Right.
Sound chaser, I'm not digging at you.
I'm not saying that.
No, no, you're not.
You should, you should.
No, I'm done.
I'm done.
I'm not seeing another word on this.
Alright.
What's the real term for cold?
It's not a barmer care, is it? What's it really care? Affordable Care Act.
Okay, and the little I read about it, when people ask about a barmer care,
they'd virtually turn their noses upside what a ridiculous idea is never going to work
blah, blah, blah. But then when the same people are questioned on that,
what you just said, Sandy, they think that it's a good idea and well over
that they have a Jew. And a lot of people, it's because basically a certain
political party here has done everything they can do to spin it and make it into
a negative. And because they have made that perception prevalent, they have
actually tainted what the people's opinions are. Now that's that's one side.
That's absolutely the truth. You know it as well as I do. That's the absolute
one that's one side of it. Both political parties are at fault here.
They're both at fault for every problem that we face here because they're both
the ones that are in charge. Now to say that one political party has spun it
is only telling half of the truth. The other political party, the single
payer option to where the government takes care of this. Yes, it's long overdue.
But to say, okay, we're going to do this. Let's invite in the insurance
companies and let them write the law. That was a mistake. And it was an
intentional one. So the other side is at fault as well.
Thank you. The insurance companies should have been just.
I want to identify the truth as well.
Obamacare Affordable Care Act, whatever you want to call it, is it compromise that
like you said, the insurance companies were behind. So it didn't really ever
say it's for anybody. And no, my statement was the spin of Obamacare
and the negative perception of it, not the act itself. You write both parties
screwed up the act big time. But the one party was actually very much
behind the spin on it. One one party was behind the negative spin.
There was another party behind the positive spin and that was all lies
as well. Yeah, don't forget to be about for saying you can keep your insurance.
That was insurance companies screwing up on most of that. They essentially quit
most of the plans that they didn't feel could be adjusted properly to the
requirements of the new law. So they canceled the plans they didn't like anyway.
It gave them an excuse again. The fact it, well, okay, I won't say facts,
but my perception of the entire situation is neither party did what they were
supposed to do. Both parties lied about it and both parties spun their
lies into positive propaganda. I mean, that's others do it. They're both
default. They both lied. We're all suffering. And both parties made a lot for
their shareholders. No doubt. No doubt there was a lot of campaign
finance contributions fueling all of it. Another reason we need the
party going on. One other problem that cropped up the law itself did put
Medicare into effect up to $47,000 of income for a single person.
But many states, including Texas, for example, have decided not to allow
their Medicare to be provided for those who cannot afford insurance otherwise.
It doesn't sound right. No, of course it doesn't, but there was a big
lawsuit just so that they could do that so that they don't have to allow the
federal government to pay out Medicare for those people.
Well, there's got to be, so you know what? I don't even want to know their
justification. Not now. Too tired. Their justification is easy. It's
another little welfare to the insurance company, so to speak. You're now
required to have insurance. Now up to the $47,000 mark, you're not actually
required to have insurance. You will not be penalized for not having it.
But above that, you will. Of course, if you're making more than $40,000 a year,
you can probably afford some sort of insurance. I don't know. $40,000 a year
doesn't go very far in the states these days. I guess it depends where you live,
but it doesn't seem like as much as it used to. It isn't, but you know,
you get a roommate and you do what you have to do. Yeah, but that's
you know, that's become the new American dream. You get a roommate.
You do what you have to do. You just get by. I mean, it used to be the American dream
was working hard and being successful. And that's just no longer the reality
that we're faced with. Now, that's a chicken stuffed with pot.
Did you say chicken stuffed with pot? Yeah, it's a joke on a catchphrase,
political catchphrase.
I was going to say I've heard of brownies that way, but never chicken.
That's actually pretty funny one.
Well, it was an old catchphrase of chicken in every pot.
So I figure, all they've got to be smoking something.
So I figure a pound of weed. You can fit that in the chicken.
Just give me a really nice idea of how to transport illegal narcotics.
Her jealousy says arise chicken.
I'm going to take your word for it. I don't think I have any concept of how much
volume a pound of weed takes up.
If you compress it, not too much.
If you compress it, you can fit into about the size of a loaf pan.
Yeah, but if you have stoners doing it, they're going to eat the chicken before they're done.
Well, I'm going to shut up now before I keep incriminating myself.
I'll tell you what, I'm going to try one day.
That's a ducking thing that you just like always talk about.
You won't either.
I want to try it.
You can't, Peter.
You're in Australia.
It has to be a wallet.
You're ducking.
Wait, wait, wait.
A wallet?
A kangaroo?
Yeah.
A kangaroo?
A wallet?
A plate?
What?
What?
You've got to get him in the floor.
You've got to get him in the right order, Peter.
They got to go from big to small.
They got to be a kangaroo with a wall B stuff in its patch.
Yep.
With a plan of push stuff in that's patch.
No, plan of push is not bigger than a turkey.
No, but it's smaller than a wall B.
Do you have a kangaroo?
No, we've got to eat him.
But there you go.
Eat him.
Right on.
I'm trying to make it easy for me.
Peter, you can eat him in the summer.
Do you have a bottle of petr?
Yeah, we have a bottle of petr.
Okay, so it's a buffalo kangaroo wallet.
Tirt duck panda.
Oh, fail.
Tirt duck panda.
Tirt duck panda.
What was the other one you said?
Plata pussy.
Kedna.
Plata pussy.
Plata pussy.
Chicken in there.
Not here.
Damn.
Ah, you might be hungry.
Come on.
I want to check it on the body now.
Don't forget to cover it in mayonnaise.
You got it, because all of our animals have got patches.
So instead of stuffing them up the bottom, we just put in the pouch.
You've got a big thing not an interesting question on that.
You've got to put it all yourself.
Is that a mucus membrane?
So if you, you know, poured a beer in there,
would you get the kangaroo drunk?
I've never tried.
I can get and try this out if you'd like.
Peter, come here.
Peter, you must have tried beer pouch kangaroo.
Nah, I can't say that.
Nah.
Oh, the luck piece.
I've never tried it on a truck.
See, if you're not going to put a wall
of bee in an emu in there, you've got to put a can of beer
in it, because we always put a can of beer
up the chicken's butt over here.
Oh, the turkey's.
That's kind of what I was thinking.
You know, put some beer in there, get it drunk.
And while it's there, pop the spit through.
What's what's better is if you take some apple juice
and some good whiskey, and then just inject that
straight into the breast.
We do that.
I think the kangaroo would have jacked that one.
I don't know how we've gone totally cyclical
with the food topic.
Well, you're on food when I got on the air,
bloody, what, 20 hours ago?
It's the start of the show where you're on that food.
Peter's been on it the whole time.
Yeah.
And this is the classy food.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
Hey, but how much we paid more for turkey this year
than we did for prawns.
Feel that?
Like, it's about $35 a kilo.
You wouldn't pay that much over there for turkey, which is.
What's a kilo?
I don't know.
Two by two pounds.
Certainly not.
How much you paid per pound per turkey?
Between 59 and 79 cents.
A pound?
Yeah.
A couple of bucks a pound.
That's actually served under.
No, no, no.
Under wholesale price over here.
Well, typically when you go and buy your Christmas food,
that's like the prawns are the most expensive at around $30
a kilo.
But turkey this year was more expensive.
Well, to be imported from the US.
Peter, over here, turkey, it depends
on when and how you buy it.
So like we bought ours probably in maybe like August.
And we just bought it frozen and kept it in the freezer
until we're ready to use it.
And it was really cheap that way.
I can't imagine we paid more than a buck a pound for it.
But if you buy it fresh, you basically
have to order it and kind of contract with a farmer
to have the thing fresh.
And you're going to pay more per pound, maybe
up to three bucks a pound.
Yeah, but shit, that's still only like $78 a kilo.
Yeah, turkey is one of the cheapest meats here.
Yeah, I could walk to the closest woods and shoot a turkey
and have one.
You also have to think that it's sold under wholesale here
in most stores with the expectation
that people are going to buy other things in the stores.
So Peter, how much is a lamb in Australia?
Actually, lamb has gotten really expensive the last 10 years.
A lamb now is probably, and it's not a very big leg.
Up around 30 bucks for a leg now, 12 years ago,
used to buy a side of lamb for around $40 or $50.
Cheers.
Now, I don't know, I haven't bought a side of lamb.
It's so low, I don't buy a leg of lamb anymore.
You know, 30 bucks for a leg of lamb, that's just ridiculous.
They know what side of lamb.
How much?
The last one.
Yeah, I don't know, the width door, right?
But yeah, I don't know, what a side of lamb's worth now.
How many of that?
Sorry.
What a leg.
Well, I don't know, but we have a leg that's three of us
and it's usually a little bit left over
and the more not take the work.
Hey, Peter, get this.
I know someone who works at a farm that only raises chips
and they're disease-free lamb, they say,
and it's the way that they're raised.
They're all birthed with cesarean sections,
so there's no chance of vaginally transmitted diseases
with these sheep and they're just exquisitely cared
for their entire lives.
And when they're ready for slaughter, you pretty much order one up
and it's the only place in the country
that guarantees it to the degree that they do.
And it's run by a veterinarian woman.
And what do you think one of those lamb's is worth
when it comes down to slaughter?
Aren't they mine?
How much?
She said it was between $800 and $1,200.
That's ridiculous, isn't it?
Yeah, isn't it though?
$9.90?
A key life per leg of lamb out of India.
Well, over it.
Jeez, that's wicked sheep.
I wish I could get lambed that sheep.
Well, wait a minute.
See that again, Peter?
$9.90 per kilo.
So, yeah, typically late a bit, 30 bucks.
Two and a half kilos for a leg.
That's under three bucks a pound.
No, it's about 450 a pound.
It's better than what's the conversion rate.
Well, I'm confused because right now I'm looking at...
Right now I'm looking at a so-called boneless leg of lamb
that I took out of my freezer that's $30 US dollars
and it's $5 a pound.
Okay, the boneless one is $12 a kilo.
And it weighs about 2.2 kilos.
Okay.
So, how much per kilo?
Per kilo is $12 bucks.
$11.90, so $12 bucks.
So, per pound.
It's about five bucks.
Five bucks a pound.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, that makes sense.
It especially makes sense since this is from Australia.
I have it right now.
It came from Australia.
Well, isn't that funny that you can buy it as the same price as I can buy it?
Also, you have a conversion rate involved.
Yeah, but they're dollar.
Well, it's not quite parity anymore.
Now, $0.89 US dollars, an Australian dollar, current.
Yeah, it has dropped a fair bit.
It's about 90 cents.
But still, that's wrong that you can buy it for almost the same price as I can buy it.
You know, it kills me.
It kills me that people would pay anything at all for chicken breast.
I hate white meat off a chicken.
Yeah, absolutely.
I have no idea why people pay more chicken breasts than legs because legs are the better part.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
And thighs are better than that.
But I have a theory.
Marketing.
Yes.
I always buy thighs.
Yes, in the early in mid-80s, McDonald's marketed all white meat chicken McNuggets.
And I think that's when the flip over happened.
It's all marketing.
Oh, you have.
So that's the most epic marketing success I've ever heard of, but you could be ready.
I'm not old enough to be able to tell you that, you know, before McDonald's said chicken McNuggets,
everybody preferred dark meat.
But I suspect that that's when it happened because I remember that marketing campaign.
And there was at least five different ways of singing that in a McDonald's commercial.
Hey, guys.
I know it's late, but Happy New Year from the Central Times own New Orleans.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year, Remy.
Oh, thank you.
Yeah, I was.
Wanted to join in on one time, but I was blowing things up.
Right on.
Thanks for checking back in.
Good for you.
Yeah, I got a seven-year-old that's finally getting into the thing.
So I got to do all I can to encourage that.
Homemade rockets.
Mortar shells.
Yeah, I love those.
All right.
I'll let you all get back.
I think we're going to head home soon.
So y'all have a good one.
Cool.
Thanks.
You too, Remy.
Yeah.
It turned out just so wimpy in the U.S. compared to where I grew up.
We could buy mortar shells that were like a couple inches across and giant strings of bangers.
And mortar shells I'm talking about are about as big as your fist.
And they get a fuse on them that's probably, oh, I don't know, foot.
And you light it and run.
Yeah, that sounds pretty good.
I grew fireworks and I was about 12 years old.
And I just don't understand them anymore.
No, not when you got fire out.
I'm saying it's something that fireworks.
Yeah, what would be Duke?
That might be it.
Yeah, there was a big gap between when I lost interest in fireworks and gained any interest at all in fire arms.
For a long time, I didn't care what fire arms either.
Yeah.
I got my first rocket when I was about 12, I think.
No, I probably got a bad eye.
Shit, I got my first rifle and my son was 12.
Mom said my grandparents, back my grandparents had properties.
So mom and dad gave me a slug gun when I was about eight, I think.
And then I got a 22 when I was about 12.
And guess what, I still have both of those.
For this very shot.
Yeah, guns are one thing you just look at after the whole lot, right?
Yeah, if you do it right.
My first gun was a Savage 22 410 over under.
Oh, I'd love to have one of those.
How accurate is the 22 on that?
Oh, that's pretty accurate.
The Mark Fiber gun is a combination gun.
I got a seven millimeter over the top of the 12 gauge.
It's a Bruno ZH304.
It's a great pig gun.
Is that what you choose for pigs?
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, you can shoot anything with a seven millimeter.
It's going to be 57 or seven millimeter more.
It'll kill anything in Australia without any problem.
And when you're putting in the 12 gauge buck shot or a slug or what?
Yeah, other slug or double A buck or something like that.
Yeah.
Now what's the point of putting a slug in underneath a rifled bullet?
Close range.
Yeah, just, yeah.
That's right.
Like, I can bet on the hay plains and take out pigs bloody, you know, 300, 400 meters away.
Or you walk through the bloody, the bracket and ligament or whatever you call it.
And then, you know, take out pigs two foot in front of you.
So run out in front of you.
Now, are your pigs aggressive, Peter?
Oh, yeah.
You know, raise it back.
Everyone talks about the raise it backs in Australia.
We were talking about it before, Pok.
Like, I know you said, I don't know that there's ever been a 500 pan one shot here.
But a 300 pan bore is a big, bloody peak when it's coming at you.
And now we're back to food.
Well, 300 pounds of any living creature is big.
And if it's coming at you, it's at least twice that size.
Yes, right.
Yeah.
Yeah, the trick is just to drop it before it hits you.
Are you better drop it a hell of a lot sooner than that?
They got some momentum.
Yeah, I don't know.
I've ever shot a 300 pan there.
But like, the biggest one I shot was probably about 250 pan, but it's still a bloody peak.
Are you eating them?
Are they still good to eat?
No, I didn't eat them.
We chop them up and give them to the dogs.
But the piglets, if you get the piglets early enough and then they go raise them.
Like, you're taking back to the farmer who's probably you're shooting on and sometimes I'll raise them.
Yeah, I start feeding them wheat and grain and shit like that.
And then they're all right to eat.
But I don't think you need any of the ones you just get at the wild because they're full of worms and shit.
Yeah, all right.
Yes, the same use case.
I would like to have a gun like Cobra 2's, but instead of pigs, I'd love to shoot rabbits with it.
Oh my God, it's great for rabbits and squirrels.
It's definitely a small game gun.
Oh, for sure.
Yeah, I mean, I can hunt squirrels all day with a 22.
I've got really no use for a shotgun, but rabbits on the other hand, they move.
And being real nice to have a shotgun.
Oh, you can hunt squirrels all day with a little pellet gun, even.
Not in New Hampshire, sadly, the law, in the way that it's, it's not intentional.
But the words dance right around pellet guns and do not allow you to hunt with them.
Do they say anything specific about not hunting with pellet guns?
No, it says something specific, a specific about hunting with rimfire cartridges.
It may even say something about center fire as well, but they specify what you can hunt with.
Do they make any sense?
I mean, you can't hunt with an air rifle.
I didn't hear either of you.
I said, does that mean you can't hunt with an air rifle?
To obey the letter of the law and do what it says you can do, then no, you can't hunt, cannot hunt with an air rifle.
Which makes me sad, I'd love to.
I like air rifles.
Does killing rodents and vermin count as hunting?
It depends on the species.
There are, I don't think there's any species of bird that you can hunt, that you can just kill indiscriminately.
There are several small mammals, like a porcupine.
You can kill as many of those as you want in any fashion you like.
Red squirrels, and there's one or two others, but I can't, a possum?
No, not a possum.
Groundhogs.
You can kill as many groundhogs you like, any fashion you like.
Those are fun.
Yeah, I haven't seen, there's not a lot of places that you can shoot them out here without getting specific permission.
And taking some time and setting up and stuff, so I just haven't done that.
I have no interest in killing anything I don't intend to eat either.
Hey, you know, take the skin off.
I'm sure there's something down there.
Yeah, there's a lot of fatty meat on a groundhog.
I mean, it might make a nice roast.
There's so much fat on it, but I just, I don't know.
That's the kind of animal, animal.
It's so specific.
I'd want someone to show me what to do with the thing once it was dead.
You could probably do some really good shish kebabs with it.
I need a porcupine in a minute.
A buddy of mine told me how to skin them somewhat safely, and I've heard they're very tasty.
Getting back to the hog hunting.
Getting back to the hog hunting thing down in the South Georgia when you go hog hunting.
When you get done, we usually have just a big, huge campfire and rotisserie the whole thing.
You have heard a lot about that with hog hunting, or like in places like Pennsylvania, where you get multiple deer tags.
I've heard guys doing that with deer as well.
Big hunting parties.
Hey, Peter, have you got a picture or a model for that gun that you've got?
I'd love to see what that looks like.
Yeah, I find it for you.
I haven't got any pictures of mine on mine, I don't think, but I'll find you one.
Yeah, that's right.
What's the model and the mechanism?
It's a Bruno ZH304, and you get all different barrels for it.
Mine is a 7x57 over a 12-gauge shotgun.
You can also get the 22-savage high-powered over a 20-gauge, obviously a double barrel, 12-gauge.
I can't remember it all.
Anyway, Google, that combination gun, Bruno ZH304.
Back home, you'd have to get a general hunting license to shoot squirrels and stuff like that.
You couldn't shoot them legally unless you had that license.
I think squirrel was about the only thing that that license actually covered everything else you had to get a separate tag for.
So, if you wanted to shoot a grouse and quail, you'd have to get an upland gamebird's tag in conjunction with your general hunting permit.
Yeah, we've got a similar situation here in New Hampshire.
If you buy a hunting license, you get a small game license, you get one deer tag, and I think that's it.
If you want to hunt turkey, you've got to buy separate tags for spring and fall.
If you want a bear, you've got to buy a bear tag.
There's some upland birds that fall under the category of small game, but fesent do not.
You have to buy separate fesentag, and you have to buy duck tags separately, of course, but that's fair.
Yeah, our deer tags don't, you have to buy those separately.
You can't even shoot a deer with just a general hunting license. You've got to get that separate.
And then, also, and I'm talking about the state of Oregon, what they got all their areas broke up.
So long the syscues is considered like the rogue unit, and you can get, like, just go into any places sells tags, and you can get a general deer tag just for that area.
So everyone in the entire state can hunt along that area, just go buy a tag.
But for anywhere else in the state, you've got to do this point saver system.
So you donate another five bucks on top of everything else you've already paid.
And then you, with that five bucks, you're applying for a point, or you're, or you're applying for a specific hunt in a specific unit.
And if you don't get it, you get a point.
So after, say, five years, you can actually go hunt that, that one spot.
Oh, yeah, our moose tags are similar to that when you, when you, you, you don't buy the tag directly, you buy into the lottery.
And if you don't win a tag in the lottery, then the next year, if you buy into the lottery again, you have two entries.
And if you don't get it again, the next year, you have three.
And if you skip a year, you lose all your previous entries.
Yeah, it's just easier to go find Indian and go hunt with them.
So like, my dad, it used to be, before the 90s, like for a pronghorn antelope, you could, every five years, you could apply to buy one and they would give it to you.
They actually tracked you for that five year period.
And now they're doing that point saver thing.
So by the time it came around for my dad's brother to be able to go hunting, he's had to start applying for the points.
So he's almost like 40 something now.
He's only ever got that tag once in his life because of this point system.
But my old man, he's, I don't know how many he's shot. I think he shot about five of them.
He seems to just pick him up every single time.
Not bad if you can get it.
That's a handsome gun, Peter.
Yeah, it's not bad.
That got out of my, probably the 25 years now.
And then the Oregon Hunters Association, you can get a $5 for porcupine nose.
A guy was just telling me that New Hampshire, the tax collector's office at every town was required to give you 25 cents for a porcupine nose.
Yeah, so like all the old growth trees out there, they're all marked up.
You know, they went out and identified them and then they put that stainless steel ribbon around the trunk of the trees.
So the porcupines can't go up there and kill them.
So they got a bounty on them sometimes depending on how bad the coyote population gets.
There's sometimes a bounty on coyote years too.
I wish there were a coyote bounty out here.
The Eastern coyotes are just nasty. They're a bit worse than the Western coyotes.
Yeah, coyotes are a funny one to me.
And my wife, she grew up kind of in the city.
She's scared of them and everyone else seems to be scared of them.
But I grew up around them stupid animals and I scared of them.
I'll walk out to them and scream at them.
Yeah, that's a Western coyote.
The Eastern coyotes have a good bit of, I don't know what kind of wolf, but they've got a good bit of wolf DNA in them.
And they've been known to hunt and packs.
And I think two years ago was the first incident of a lone coyote attacking a human.
Yeah, I can't even imagine a Western coyote doing that.
Because Eastern Orient has no trees, really.
It's all sagebrush and it's all that high mountain desert stuff.
Yeah, so you can see for miles and miles.
And we kind of had a coyote that we actually kind of kept track of because you'd be, you know, pretty far away.
He'd see you and take off and run before you could even get glass on them.
Yeah, they run up here. They're pretty good at evading you.
It takes quite a bit of work to actually put one down.
But I think, and I could get these wrong.
But I think I heard that the Western coyote gets to be about 40 pounds and the Eastern coyote gets to be about 60 pounds.
And the crazy thing is the Eastern coyotes completely not native.
Somebody back in the 30s brought a Western coyote out here because he thought they gave better chase than a fox.
And the fox population was running kind of thin from all the fox hunting.
And just from being out here, they didn't have much competition.
And then they met up with some wolves and gained some of their DNA, which put some weight on them and a little bit of smarts on them.
So they've really flourished out here.
So we've had another person join us in the channel here, the sons of man one.
And he was just coming to you. He's actually never seen a coyote.
Yeah, never seen one.
You got to go out at night and say them.
Yeah, I'm not sure if I've seen one in person. I've seen pictures.
I'm not in Oregon anymore. I used to be in Southern Oregon.
I'm trying to hang him out around Lakeview as much as possible.
We see him all over in here.
They're all over Georgia too. It's open season on coyotes in Georgia.
You can go out and shoot him with night vision scopes. It's awesome.
Oh yeah, the only up here, there's no closed season on coyotes.
The only closed season is when you can't shoot them at night with illumination.
It's perfectly legal in Georgia to do that.
Yeah, and no bag limit per day, per season, whatever that you can kill as many as you want.
And it's weird because you say kill a coyote.
And that's just what you do as you kill a coyote.
There's other animals. You take them. You kill them for the purpose of eating them
or at the very least, skinning them and using their pelts for some purpose.
But coyotes, I've asked a dozen people, what do you do with them once you kill them?
And eight out of twelve people have said nothing.
The tales kind of look neat on your truck.
Hang them off the antenna.
No, usually just skin them.
I'm not that red neck. Do you skin them, you sell the pelts?
No, we don't sell the pelts. We usually keep them to make a rug or something out of them.
Yeah, okay. I've heard most guys say if you can get them in late fall, then the pelts is worth keeping or doing something with but other than that.
They're not worth doing anything with.
And even the guys who like the pelts will say it's got to be a cold day because they stink so bad once you cut them open.
It's not worth the trouble.
Do you belong to get them foxes over there?
Yeah, we go foxes.
And did you used to get money for the fox pelts?
Yeah, probably 30 years ago.
Oh yeah.
Like they're worth $40 or $50.
You used to sell a fox pelts for these days.
I don't think you get two dollars for one.
I'm not sure what you get for them.
There's didn't pelts of any animal aren't worth what they used to be.
That's for sure.
They just stopped hunting in their steak forest over here too.
But it wasn't like anyone could go and hunt in the steak forest.
You had to get what they call a class license.
And then you actually got online and you more or less booked the forest for yourself.
They might allocate that eight people were allowed to hunt in that forest depending on the size of it.
And they just went and stopped it all for some reason, the new government.
We have a couple of small areas that are like that.
We'll give you a certain number of permits for like an island or something.
And then you have to stick to the area of your island that you're in.
But I've talked to a few people who do that.
And I don't know whether they're imagining it or whether it's true.
But a couple of people have all said the same thing as you can hear bullets whizzing over your head.
And they said they just took cover until the time was done.
And they got the hell out and didn't bother trying that again.
I'd say over here, when you book forest, you'd probably have 100 square bloody kilometers to yourself.
You wouldn't have to worry about a bullet whizzing over your head.
Oh Jesus, there's not 100 square kilometers anywhere up here.
Well, that's probably a little exaggeration.
But you're talking about tens of kilometers per person.
Yeah, up here, you're lucky.
You're damn lucky if you find, I'd say, 50 unoccupied acres.
You're damn lucky to find that much in one place.
That isn't already posted for no hunting.
I mean, where I hunt is what's split by a river.
But there's almost a thousand acres above the river and another five or six hundred below the river.
And it's split into, so it's 12 to 1500 acres dependent on whose property you're counting.
Or how far off the trail you're willing to get.
But for most parts of the southern part of the state anyway, you're real lucky to find 50 acres.
There's some parts of Oregon where you won't see anyone for an entire week.
Yeah, there's a lot of states like that.
That's what I don't really care for the East Coast because you can't find a tree to pee behind.
Well, I just stand in the middle of the trail. I'm technically behind all of them.
Oh, where I'm about to go work. There's nothing but trees and frozen swamps.
Yeah, they're okay when they're frozen.
Not when it's minus 30 Celsius.
All right, fellas, I'm drifting away. I don't know if you can hear it or not, but I'm going to have to go.
You better stick around for my new year.
Oh, yeah, all right. Just a couple of me. I can do that.
Yeah, we're almost there.
This makes it 23 hours for me. I think last year I only made it to 22. So I'm still doing better.
How long you just got the game?
What are you into? 22? So probably another or 23. You said what three more hours to get?
Yep.
You're going to do the whole thing sound chaser. You haven't eaten a break, have you?
I took 15 minutes earlier.
That ain't a break.
Yeah, 15 minutes. Glad to yell.
Well, I'm glad I caught the tail end.
What's that?
I'm glad I caught the tail end. Or at least I was able to contribute or participate this year.
Can barely hear you. But yeah, I'm glad you caught the tail end of it too.
Actually, after this break, we still have five hours to go.
Five? Yeah.
Did the...
Is it happy new year to someone? You know, not a couple, not a minute or so.
It's about 30 seconds.
Close enough.
I'm trying to think of the distraught that the lady in the bloke who was on last year for a fair wall.
It's one of those a bunch of...
Court of Renational and...
Yeah, yeah.
Have fun New Year's mountain region.
Yep, the mountain region of the U.S. and Canada.
We've got Calgary, Denver, Edmonton, Phoenix, or some of these cities and locations in this region.
As?
As?
As out there.
Yeah, happy whatever it is.
New year.
Yeah, cool.
Two.
And two.
Happy New Year, Cobra.
Yay.
Anybody else in the room?
On that time?
Yes.
Anyone else?
All right. Well, happy new year, you guys. Thanks so much for being here.
Happy new year.
I'll be over there here soon.
Yeah.
Have a good one, Parkie.
It's like Parkie.
Yeah, I'm going to sleep hard. That's for sure.
Thanks a lot, guys.
This has been...
Just as fun as ever.
Okay.
And a quick announcement that we are doing this show this year for the Accessible Computing
Foundation and their recent fundraiser to take Orca and make it into a world-class piece
of software for the vision impaired.
And they are trying to raise money via a crowd sourcing or yeah, crowd sourcing fundraiser.
And the fundraising campaign is on Indiegogo.
And the URL for that is http colon slash slash IGG.me slash at slash Orca.
Please visit their site and donate to them.
They need a lot of money and they really need to do this so they can make the software just
the absolute best that it can be to actually really help all the visually impaired people
out there.
Yeah, Jonathan does a terrific job, don't he?
You're not wrong on that one.
It's where we got two weeks left.
It's only up to $2,700.
I'm sure we could do a lot better than that.
By having contributed yet, I'm going to contribute live on Devran and KPO, next whatever
it is Sunday or Saturday for you bloats.
Yes, everything there for us.
What's the time, six?
I'm going to go and get bloody my daughter and a friend dinner, Sandy.
So I don't know who's left on here for you to talk to.
Yeah, go ahead, Ken.
Welcome back.
Happy New Year, everyone.
Happy New Year, PG64.
Hey, Ken.
Happy New Year.
It only seems like yesterday I was talking to you.
Indeed, indeed.
But it was a year ago, actually.
Seems like it.
Yeah, so what time you got?
You're about 10 a.m.
It's behind us.
I'm just saying.
You're about midday.
No, not quite.
10 o'clock in the morning.
Something like that.
All right.
I'll just restart my recording.
Just give me one second.
This is not being recorded.
Actually, it's still being recorded because I didn't restart mine.
Haha.
Very good.
Very good.
Cheater.
Right.
I'll have some dinner and I'll jump back on.
I'll hopefully wrap it up with you towards the end there.
Yeah, maybe you won't talk about food there.
Yeah, we will.
Cobra.
I'll betcha.
Happy New Year, Ken.
Good to see you back.
Oh, thank you very much.
It was a very interesting night.
The neighbors set off their works.
They hit a tree and then come exploding into our funk gardens.
So that was interesting.
Oh, wow.
At least they didn't hit your house.
Believe me, I had it happen on the 4th of July.
The hit on the car and we have a paint job thing to do.
I have to admit, one time for our 4th of July here, I was blowing off fireworks.
And I got really scared at one point because I had some of my five rockets or something.
And like more than one of them went into this huge tree right in my neighbor's yard,
right across the street.
And I was just like, my God, please don't start on fire.
Don't spark.
Don't spark it.
Don't start on fire.
That would have been the worst thing to start on fire.
Big, I mean, like 30 foot across tree, you know, it's about about 50 foot high.
Of course, you do that in the middle of the summer.
So there's more of a chance that that's going to happen.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, it was actually fairly dry too.
It wasn't, it was pretty, a pretty dry part of the summer.
So I'm sitting there going home, man, please don't, please don't do this.
Please don't mess this up.
Please don't do this.
I take it as it can go in for.
No, it did not.
But I'm still here because if that tree had caught fire, there's a good chance that I
wouldn't be here because this house would have probably burned down as well as my neighbor's
house and possibly three or four other houses in the neighborhood.
Oh, okay.
Cool.
Yeah, that tree is humongous.
I'm impressed that it's still standing at this point.
Well, if it's that big, that'd be a good reason to still be standing.
Probably has been pretty deep roots.
Yeah, I would imagine it does have some pretty deep roots to be as tall as it is.
I'm amazed that it's actually as close to a house as it is given that it probably has a lot of roots.
I would imagine a tree that big might actually be getting too close to the foundation of my neighbor's house.
Well, it may be going, getting under the foundation of your neighbor's house.
I have seen some trees do that.
Then the house rises slightly over time and they finally realize why.
Yeah, I don't think I've seen any signs of that.
I don't know if they've seen any signs of it either.
I'm not certain how deep or shallow roots are on this tree and be good thinking to kind of maybe
look at and try to figure out.
You have any basements where you live?
Yeah, all our houses are like a split level where we've got like a lower garage and it's typically
that part's actually underground and then the main floor is actually up above ground.
Yeah, that would lead on to it a little bit more.
Yeah.
So does anybody else plan?
God.
No, no, nothing important to say.
I'll talk to it after yesterday.
Does anybody else planning any episodes soon?
Yes.
Which planning?
Oh, loads of stuff.
But I'm very reluctant to say anything because you know, if it's all just an episode until it's actually on the FTP server.
Oh, that is true.
I probably shouldn't say anything about mine, but I am planning one.
I've gotten most of the source work written on it on gaining and upgrading computers through thrift stores.
Oh, very nice.
Oh, cool.
That's one of those topics I actually like.
I've figured out a basic structure for pricing, comparative to retail.
So you could look at a computer, look at the various factors on it and price out what it would be worth for you to get it.
For you to get it over retail.
Yeah, I think I did pretty good a couple of years ago.
I actually was at a pawn shop and I spotted an Acer, like a mini tower.
And I was looking at the thing and it actually had a really good video card in it.
I basically pulled the machine off the shelf and I looked at it and I looked to see what the model of the video card was.
And I pulled up my phone and I actually looked it up to see what the specs were on it.
I was going, ooh, this is a good media center.
It's actually got, you know, full HDMI setup and it's got actually all, you know, for 1080p.
And it actually has a decent sound card on it.
So I ended up buying the thing for like 50 or 75 bucks.
Well, I'm living in Houston right now and from some of these stores around here, you can get a fully refurbished.
Three gigahertz Pentium 4 small form factor with an 80 gig hard drive and a giga ram for about a box.
If you go to the Goodwill computer store, you can get them a little bit cheaper.
I've seen them as cheap as maybe 30 bucks for similar specs.
So I've based a lot of it around that.
Yeah, that's an interesting show.
You know, that's the funny thing. I've lived here for three years and I've never gone to the Goodwill computer store.
I know where it is and everything. I've just never gone in there and looked because I'm making it better.
I could probably find some stuff in there that you wouldn't normally find out in the other stores.
What about you?
I'm in Omaha.
I picked up my router from a Salvation Army store.
Got the RT and 66 U.
Oh, my God. The amount of routers they have at the one over here and most of them are WRTs and similar.
They've got a few of these net gears that can take hard drive over USB and just 25, 30 bucks.
Wow. Now, I was thinking, you know, I could probably find some old sun workstations and stuff.
I'd make any bet or maybe maybe some old HP workstations and stuff because I know these people in that kind of store.
I'm making any bet from around from the business around here.
There's pricing with that older equipment left and they don't know anything about it.
It's possible and I've seen some Cisco's that are here.
But most of the computers that go through there, they may get it in the back and not even think they can sell.
So you want to go to them and tell them that you're looking for this sort of thing so that they can keep an eye out for it.
Over here, you won't see a lot of that.
Most of those stores are stocked with gear from the Dell Trade-In program.
That was actually the initial rush was the Dell trade-ins where you buy a computer and then for very little money or no money at all,
you could send them your computer to be quote unquote recycled.
Ah, okay.
And so that's how those computer stores started.
I need to check them out and see what they've got here.
It's actually really funny because it's right next to the kind of the last chance, good will store.
Where if you actually go into this place, they have like bins of stuff just sorted by like different categories of products.
And you take this big like trolley car and put whatever you want on it.
And basically they charge you, I think it was like 25 cents a pound for whatever you put on the car.
Well, that could get really interesting if you find some CDs and floppies.
Yeah, exactly that.
Or how about furniture?
You know, go buy a sofa or something, you know, a 20 pound sofa.
You're going to pay a couple bucks for it.
Well, I don't know if you could find a 20 pound sofa, but you know, usually looking more around two, three hundred pounds.
Still not about price granted.
Oh, I saw I'm still kicking myself.
I saw like a love seat that was leather covered.
There was a little bit of damage on it and a fair amount of dirt, but it could have been cleaned.
And I was really hurting the day that I saw it because I just come out of the car shop
and I'd spend like 1,200 bucks on my car.
And so I just, I looked at it and I thought, yeah, this is actually kind of nice.
But I just spent $1,200.
So I left it there and I started kicking myself that night and I went back the next day and it was gone.
But that thing must have weighed maybe 30, 35 pounds.
See, that's another thing that occurs to me is a dumpster diving in similar.
And a lot of these, unfortunately, a lot of the thrift stores will have compactors behind the stores.
So anything that doesn't get sold essentially gets destroyed.
But where I grew up myself, we had large community dumpsters paid for through county to Texas.
And any appliances, computers, anything else was set out to the side of the dumpsters.
So things could be recovered from them.
You know, a washing machine belt could really come from just about any brand of washing machine as long as it was the right size.
And many of my computers came from that trash area.
So you really have to learn how to put things together and figure out how to get it to work.
Yeah, unfortunately here they don't have the community dumpsters like that.
So dumpster diving is actually I think a little bit not the shady side,
but I think it's not quite the kind of endeavor that you would like.
But by the same token out here where I live, it's all curbside trash.
So a lot of times if you see furniture or computer or printer or something on the curbside,
as long as the owner doesn't mind, you can go ahead and grab it because otherwise it's just going to go under the trash anyway.
And that's something you have to think about as long as the owner doesn't mind over here in an apartment complex.
I mean, I just grabbed two speakers out of a TV that somebody had ripped apart to get the copper out of it.
So I've got two little two watt speakers. I hooked it up to an amp I built a while ago.
And while I was listening, I was rebuilding speakers to interface with this amp.
Sounds better than the ones I had on it before.
And you'll be no doubt be doing a show on how to build them.
Oh, that's easy. Just go to the store and get a welding kit.
Hey, gentlemen, I'm going to have to crash.
Sorry, my audio wasn't all that great, but hopefully it's a little bit better now.
Yeah, so now it's perfect. Now that you're leaving.
Don't leave me so much better.
Yeah, I know. Man, this is something I wanted to do last year.
I participate and I'm thankful that I had opportunity to all be very late.
Well, make a show.
Well, you know, I've got a few already that I've published.
I know I've got some more that I have in my brain.
But I definitely want to do another show for you guys.
That'd be really awesome.
If nothing else come on here when other people are making the show and help out.
Oh, absolutely. Be happy to do that.
I'm talking about building my own amplifier. That's something I actually want to do.
So I've no clue how to do it. So there you go.
Well, this wasn't so much building my own amplifiers.
More of a solder together kit.
I also have another one downstairs that I built modified added various ports for it for various inputs and outputs.
And put it in a nice transparent case.
In fact, the hang up cases that the welding kits come in make a wonderful case for an amplifier.
I've drilled a couple holes and put in a put in power, put in the inputs and outputs and put a volume knob on it too.
Although, I think I need to put a stop on the volume knob.
This will be the LLMM. Do you have a URL for the kits that you're talking about?
I'll see if I can't get one on there.
That's never occurred to me to actually make any of these, you know.
I'm just going to put together a kit.
So a lot of these will come in a decent put together kit and it's going to cost less.
And in many cases, be higher quality than what you'd get from a store bought amplifier.
Not to mention you can trade out any parts you want to.
Oh, please, please, please do assure about this because I think a lot of people have another clue that this is possible.
And soldering isn't that hard.
This has been, this is kind of one of those things that's been lost in time.
I mean, back in the old days and the late 70s and early 80s and that there used to be like the Heath kit stuff all the time where you could build radios and amplifiers and stuff like that.
And it's that that seems to have actually gone completely by the wayside.
Yeah, perhaps in the US, but I never had any experience with that.
Any opportunity to do that through my culture, look at the whole concept of soldering your own kits.
It's only recently when you hear Gorka and Tiltz about that stuff that I realized it.
This must have been something that has been going on in the States.
Or maybe it's been going on here as well.
It's just I haven't been in my zone of influence, but I just love to see that sort of stuff.
You know, before after photos, that sort of thing if you have them, that's more the merrier.
Great.
I just linked it in the chat and in the US, it's been an ongoing thing for many years.
The idea being ingenuity as opposed to money.
So the idea that you can put something together yourself that you can repair your own car,
that you can do any number of things that goes into a lot of the stuff of the maker community.
And at the same time, it goes into a lot of the other stuff I'm involved with like the ham radio community,
where you could get the parts and build it yourself.
A lot of it actually came from the 50s, the 60s and 70s,
where we were looking more at technological ingenuity.
And getting the kit, you could adjust the kit for your needs so you could add parts that you wanted to change it.
For example, some of these amplifier kits come with volume control, some don't.
Usually the instructions will tell you how to work one in, and then you can buy your own.
You can put different knobs and stuff on it.
As a matter of fact, it's just recently that a larger store over here called RadioShack.
Usually a small store, they used to carry a lot of radio equipment.
They're just now starting to get in the actual solder together kits again.
They didn't carry them for decades.
That's good to hear. They're back to doing that.
That was one of the places I was thinking about along with the old Heathkits stuff.
Oh, they have art. We know now too.
They haven't gotten anything raspberry pie, but they're getting there.
They're finally talking to the people who will buy this stuff.
Some of the Arduino stuff, if you look at it the right time, you can find Arduino's for next to nothing
for some of these various parts that aren't all that popular.
Then you can solder them together as needed, or look in their battery section for old cell phone batteries.
I found old camera and cell phone batteries for as cheap as two cents for an 800 milliamp hour lithium ion battery.
Oh, wow. You've got like in this vellum and they've got like a stereo tube amplifier.
Wow. In vellum when you go into the audio stuff, the K4040 audio stuff on the main page.
Now a few hours ago you were telling me how to unmute.
Now you have to tell me how to navigate a website.
They have a program of boards and a lot of other stuff from vellum.
And much of this stuff, you can solder together yourself and do whatever you need to do with it.
I'm in products.
I don't see any audio adapters, power supplies, batteries, charges, cable accessories, connectors, electronic equipment, LEDs, lamps, lights, light speakers.
Kids.
I don't see kids.
I've been redirected to some other sites.
Low to speaker speaker accessories.
Mixed waste radio, I know.
Right there at the bottom, vellum and kids and oscilloscopes.
Have you go under that and go into kits then there's under the more categories.
There's audio hi-fi applications.
I found a store in here a couple days ago in town in Calgary that has all kinds of awesome little parts.
The website for it is active123.com.
That was a possible. Why would they have a different website for the US and the US?
I seriously do not know.
I'm gonna click the link that you guys had.
They may actually have a different website for different areas.
Many, many, many systems do.
They're triadately from the mumble trip.
Can.
Trying one second.
Yeah, at that I see.
Oh, vellum and kids and oscilloscopes.
Sorry, no, because this book of me know.
It's kind of a funky way to put together.
Once you know the kit you're looking for a lot.
There seems to be a lot of valves.
Of course, valves were something from a holder's age.
Sottering things together was something from your father's age.
That is true.
You know, back before they had kits.
Well, I've got a couple of components to see what they do.
Yeah, when I walked into the store, the first thing that caught my eye.
There was just the raspberry pie board sitting there with a bunch of little parts beside it.
What's, oh, this, wait, what store?
This active tech store that I walked into here in Calgary.
I'll tell you, if you're anywhere around the micro center, that place is,
like Geek Heaven, they've started putting.
So in the gaming section, oddly enough, they have an entire wall of Arduino,
pick just any number of different hobbyist kids.
They've always had some really interesting stuff in their clearance section.
You know, like, like many stores, they'll buy stuff up and just have it in clearance
because it's somewhat minutely involved with the rest of their stuff.
Now they have all this hobbyist, all this hobbyist stuff.
And they're comparable to online prices.
It's amazing.
Oh, I would think there was a shop like that around here.
Boy, here's what I like about this, like the development kits.
You can actually go in and pull down a copy of their assembly instructions as a PDF,
which means you have an opportunity to actually see how complicated the assembly is on something.
They also have stuff rated like level one, level three, level five, whatever.
But at least you can look at the instructions.
You can get a real good idea how much work it's going to be.
And if you really want to have some fun, some of them are detailed enough.
You can just build it from the schematic.
That is, that is awesome.
But of course you don't get the pre-drilled and everything bored to do that.
But you know, you can still see what it is that they do and how they do everything to fit it together.
You can look at the instructions for what they want you to do.
From there, it's just soldering.
And here was I lamenting the passing of upgradable PC.
You know, like I always tell people, I stopped buying an apple when they stopped including the schematic.
Actually, I wonder if that's, is this a, you know, the...
Coherent faults are hard to find right now.
I'm hard to find at the best of times in fairness.
I wonder, is this, you know, there's a lot of hardware hacking going on.
And I'm probably, as a result of the hardware of the Arduino and the Raspberry Pi.
I wonder is that as a direct result of the fact that, you know, PCs are now baked in.
And everybody's got a laptop that's impossible to get at.
And the mobile phone side, you got a phone that's completely glued together and you need a hack on it.
And then life gets into change battery or something.
There's the same, yes.
Okay, ahead.
Around here, there's a group that meets at the community hall down the street every two weeks.
And all they discuss is hardware hacking.
What you're saying, Ken, is that because everything is so hard to take apart,
people are yearning for something that's so much easier to understand and to tinker with.
Yeah, yes.
I don't know the motivation, of course.
Is it, is it, I want to know how to do it or is it just because they're doing this, you know,
I want to go and look and see what it is.
I don't know if it's the character for the horse or, you know, as a result of that happening,
or is this just, by the way, trend?
Well, the parts and everything have always been there.
You know, you've always had these little pick controllers and these little things you can use.
Now, keep in mind a lot of these things are not intended.
Say the Raspberry Pi was not intended to be a full computer necessarily,
but it was intended to be able to be used as a full computer to allow it to make other things
or to allow it to test other things.
A lot of this stuff, in some ways, I think you may be right.
It's inspiration from desperation.
People just trying to get stuff that they can actually handle that actually feels real to them.
And so, you know, these have always been there.
It's just now people are recognizing them.
And of course, they go down in price because the more people recognize them, the more they see them.
Another thing I've seen there at Microsoft that you won't see in most stores,
you'll find the, um,
imitation Arduino boards.
Some of them you have to put together yourself and you can actually solder together the Arduino boards.
You only save a couple dollars, but when that couple dollars counts,
or when you want to leave something off of it?
Yeah, no, I get your point.
I'm just, I probably am thinking that, you know, back in the days of the,
when you had to make your own PC and solder everything together, as you said,
as you stopped putting a Mac when the stuff is shipping and the instructions have to move with yourself.
Oh, they never shipped the schematic with a Mac.
That was Apple II was the last one they did that with.
Yeah, so I guess then, you know, we had the era of people
who might sing is open just making stuff.
And now they, uh, they were at the other end of the cycle where people are starting to,
uh, assemble things again or, you know, think outside of the PC or box.
Hey, let me just jump in here.
Welcome back to Rotten Corps.
Thank you.
Yes, welcome back.
On the periphery, you've always had, at least in the US, the ham radio crowd,
who have been doing this stuff anyway.
If you look at take, for example, one of my radios,
uh, Yazoo 5100FT, I think it is, you look on the Yazoo site and it has instructions
on where to solder to modify it to get a wider band range, for example,
or other modifications that you can make.
In my case, I have the white LED modifications so that looks a lot better on the front
and it doesn't overheat the LCD.
So I'll say, I'll say a link to that.
Who was, who was talking about their, uh, about,
was something else somebody mentioned, uh, as you were chatting?
A little more specific.
Yeah, just before you come on.
Oh, it's gonna bug me now.
Uh, if only there was a recording of this that I could rewind them.
Yeah.
Talking about it.
Oh, I, I could start playing my current segment and try to figure it out,
but, uh, right now I'm at about an hour and a half into this recording.
No, that's not, that's not, that's not mess with the recording that you're very much.
Uh, I will be kicked myself and I will be contacting the person after, uh,
when I do hear the show.
What, what, what was the question again?
Because I mean, I think I'm the only person who's been talking like last five or ten minutes
besides you and, uh, and John Doe.
Okay, so somebody, uh, just had a quick introduction about, uh, about something.
Oh, me?
Yes, go ahead.
Oh, I just said there was a group that made to the community center down here.
That's what I want to talk to you about.
Yes.
Oh, yeah.
They just do, uh, wait 30 minutes to an hour of, uh, hardware hacking.
Wait for folks.
Get your glasses of drink ready.
Uh, can you do a show enough, please?
Bring down a, bring down a microphone and interview the guys.
I will try, but I'm not gonna be in town for the next three to four months.
Well, you've got a year.
No problem, you've got a year or more.
Do you know what I found out that there is, uh, in, in town here?
It's surprising.
When I say town, I am, of course, referring to a small little hamlet.
Uh, as Wikipedia would have it.
But, um, they have a, there's a movement now where you can bring stuff, uh, that's, you know,
appliances and things that are broken to, uh, guys.
And they'll fix it free of charge free.
Just, you know, you'll see if it's, I have a, um, mixer here and it's just broken.
I know it's probably only a diode or something in the form.
So, uh, I, uh, intend to bring it out to those guys and, uh, see if it can fix it.
I'm going to step away for a few minutes.
Sure, no problem.
I will continue talking about camaraderos and, uh, and, uh, solver and stuff.
When it comes to a lot of the hardware radio stuff too, there's a community built around it that will fix it.
Um, and in many cases, if you have a problem with it and you can't figure it out, uh,
many modifications done to mine.
In fact, we're done by a friend after I bought it because it was something that would get me on the air.
Yeah.
Yeah, I can understand that.
The good thing is I work in a, in a, in a, with the loads of guys who are not afraid to wheeled the solver there.
Very, very techy hardware was.
All right, I'm not afraid to wheel the soldering iron myself.
I've been taking a part, uh, spare motherboards for components and parts.
Go ahead, rock and corpse.
Okay, I just want to invite, if anybody in here uses XBMC.
I will.
Yeah.
Okay.
Um, I am building a project called XBMMC.
It's XBMMC.com.
So, two M's.
What it does is Chromecast style sending from your desktop laptop to XBMC.
So you can play like YouTube videos like you can be like browsing YouTube on your computer and then send it to XBMC to play on like a pie or whatever you want.
You have it installed like an old Xbox or whatever.
So it works with every any instance of XBMC.
It doesn't need to be ported to any of them.
And it works right now.
It works with Linux only, but it will eventually be ported.
After the first launch, it'll be Linux.
And then the next release will be BSD and OS10 and then eventually Windows probably.
What license are you going to have on that?
I haven't decided yet, but it's going to be open source.
Super.
And I'd just like to apologize to Poki.
You were on here before as I was flipping your projects, which I'm all in favor of talking to you.
Well, my project is kind of like Chromecast AirPlay style,
but it works with a lot of different things that normally wouldn't work with those kinds of things.
Like you can use magnet links and various websites and live streams and all kinds of crap.
So what's running on the XBMC that will facilitate this?
Nothing.
It uses the built-in APIs for XBMC to work.
There are certain things that like if you want to use YouTube videos,
you'll need a YouTube plug-in for XBMC, but nothing special for my project.
Okay.
Hey, I've had very little results getting any of those additional plug-in players to work on my XBMC box.
I know what you're using.
Well, I have a Raspberry Pi.
You're using Raspberry and Raspberry.
Yeah.
That's interesting.
Yeah, I think more of it is to do with restrictions on IP addresses on the sites that I want to go to.
So there you go.
I've got a original Apple TV running Crystal Bund 2.
I've got an old Dell laptop with an Nvidia card that's got a 30 gig SSD and a couple terabytes on external storage.
And my other box is just a fanless atom board with an Nvidia Ion.
Oh, I'll run the next BMC.
Yep.
Nice.
So you have a multiple host.
What do you mean multiple host?
Sorry.
A host is an XBMC term that applies to each individual install of XBMC on a LAN.
No, actually.
I carry the Apple TV with me when I go out of town to hotels and stuff and plug it into the TV there so I can watch media without freaking commercials.
The laptop sits on the TV upstairs in the house here, runs all the time.
And then the other box is back on the other side of the country with my wife.
Oh, that's cool.
So if they were all in the same place, they would be, but right now they're portable kind of thing.
Yeah.
That's cool.
At one point in time, they were all using the same MySQL database for a back end.
Nice.
An XBMC running MySQL as a back end?
Or am I...
It should be running MySQL as to keeping up with the data for where the files are and what files to push.
And other things like say I'm in the kitchen and I stop watching a show in the kitchen and I go downstairs in the basement.
And I can pick up the show exactly from where I left off with another instance of XBMC.
Nice.
Yeah.
Singtimes.
Oh, that's pretty close.
Yeah.
I have the...
I took it out here just for the kids.
You're really quiet, Ken.
I put this...
How about this?
Much better.
I put the Raspberry Pi out here for the kids with...
I was connected to a monitor, regardless of the recycling center.
You know, the total playing cost was very little.
But I got two little devices.
The DVB receiver for terrestrial video.
There are three public channels, one of which the only time we use this is actually Christmas or New Year countdown,
which is funny enough.
But it's probably still nice to have.
And the other one is a satellite, an external USB satellite receiver, to connect to the satellite dish and the roof.
So theoretically, that all should be able to run from the Raspberry Pi.
So if you're asking what episodes I have coming off, that might be an episode you never know.
I'm using Raspberry Pi for my XBMC.
So I'm also using Raspberry MC.
That's what's kind of made me confused when you said you didn't have good things working.
But if you're talking about like website, you know, region grab, then...
Yeah.
That would probably be an issue.
No, it has no problem at all playing any of the video on my NAS or any of the DVDs or stuff that I have.
But I forgot to mention my project also works with local.
So NAS and local computer stuff.
So I'll tell you what use is this, because if I've got a NAS, can I just connect my Raspberry MC or my XBMC up to my NAS and just play it like this?
So give me a use case where this would be actually useful.
Well, for people like in my case, I'm on my computer, a ridiculous amount of time.
And I'm looking through things and maybe I want to look at, you know, choose what video I want to watch.
And with going through the interface for XBMC, it would take 10 times longer than it would for me to just open the file manager and then go to the like type in the share per section.
And then, you know, right-clicking the video, I want to do it and telling it to play.
So sort of you can throw it at the screen.
Yeah, pretty much.
I get the idea.
I mean, it's cool in many different ways, because some use cases it wouldn't work for me.
If you can't use region issues for YouTube, that wouldn't mean words.
But it can do magnet links for torrents.
It can do local files, NAS or just on your computer.
And it can do like direct media sites, so websites that don't have stupid limitations.
It can do those just fine.
It can also do like live streaming, like it can play this.
You could also do stuff like Algae Zero, or you can play onion videos if you want to.
Yeah, things like that.
Some BBC stuff, but they're also audio.
I'm actually region block from them.
So I can only test a few things to get past it, but yeah, I have a member to test the regular.
Well, that's why you test it from somewhere in that region.
Right, but I don't have a proxy to get to use fast.
Oh, I meant, you know, somewhere, you know, just somewhere in that region,
to make sure to pay for your TV license while you're there.
Oh, or you can be in a region outside of that region by proxy.
I meant license.
You do know that all the BBC and ITV channels are broadcasts free to air over satellite.
That just happens to spill down onto my backyard.
So we have all those channels for free.
Assuming you pay your TV license, of course.
No, don't have to pay a TV license.
Nobody, I've never asked them.
I've never given them permission to start broadcasting weird signals from space into my backyard.
And so absolutely no requirements on me whatsoever to pay anybody anything for.
That's about how the US used to be, but now there's specific blocks of signals that you're somehow not allowed to know are there.
Anything containing a cell phone or other wireless voice signal like cordless phones.
If they're only 2.5 band, yeah.
No, no, 900 megahertz is counted in that too.
So technically, you can pick most of this stuff up with a shortwave radio.
Wow, that's great.
And if it bugs out, you can pick it up on the FM radio.
Interesting.
It can be done, yes.
I know I used to listen to my parents calls all the time on the radio.
Well, that's scary.
And then they're listening to you on this.
So the tides have turned.
Oh, it's all good.
Oh, I would be shocked if my parents listened to this.
Really, I would.
Are you going to enable use net for that stuff, bud?
I do not have an account use net, so I have no idea how it set that up.
But if it uses torrents, it could work.
Use net does not use torrents.
I didn't think it did, but I don't have no idea what it uses.
I know use net is like a group email is an easy way to think about it.
Darn, now I've just remembered what I forgot to mention the green tea use.
Honey, next one.
You're now streaming over use net?
No.
Yes.
The community, the mailing list is now being streamed over calls out over use net.
Oh, really?
What where?
Into game dust org.
I think there's a link on the main on the, on all the pages down at the bottom.
Or if there is a public ecp.
There could be.
Give me two seconds and I'll go free or I'll find out where I put.
I didn't put the link at the bottom, which is very strange, but I'll fix that now.
Is use net pdp?
No use.
Well, it's, it's sort of a hierarchy system, basically.
It's the internet before the internet became the internet.
Right.
I know what it is, but before, I knew what it was when he was doing like actual news stuff.
So what they, what they come up with was this idea that, okay, I guess the concept of news,
that was you send your emails to a new server and then new server peers with other new servers
and distributes the messages around the internet.
Right.
Are the files downloaded from a server?
Yes.
So the thing about it is they have agreed protocols for how these files should be split up with policy.
So.
But of course, you want to have a use net server that tends to retain the files long enough for you to get them.
Right.
Who's writing these services?
What can directly could be possible?
Well, I get most of my use net from my ISP.
They provide a use net server and it has retention of roughly 600 days and they kill most of the pirated stuff after about a year.
Sounds like I think it was giga news that was doing that.
Check with your, check the IP on your new server and see what it comes back as.
It's high water, high river or something like that.
No, the actual new server itself, check what that comes back to or who owns that IP.
And that may tell you who the actual provider of the new service is they're paying for it.
So I'll paste into the into the channel, the link to the hacker public radio.
But, uh, rotten.
What was, uh, who's your ISP?
Charter.
Never mind.
Yeah.
Anything like that.
There's this weird low over here in the Netherlands, because people, uh, when they both,
uh, tapes, the music industry would ballistic about the fact that they happened, uh, you know,
they were going to use them to pirate so that we've been paying taxes for years on blank tapes and, um, you know, iPods.
And stuff like that for years.
So as a result of that, it is legal for us to download, uh, music and media, not software.
And, um, and the reason is that, you know, because we've already paid our tax.
So therefore, while torrenting is illegal, because there's the upload component to it.
And news nets are very, very, very popular here because of the reality of it.
It's the same way you Canada.
And in the US, we pay a tax on CDs as well.
But there's a funny thing on that.
We technically only pay, it's, we only pay it on CDs that are marked for use for music.
Yes.
Same here.
Which hardly went down to music.
We don't pay anything on it.
So in the US, if you see anything marked as a music CD or a music CDR, that just means you're paying an extra tariff on top of that.
Paying a music industry that doesn't pay the people who actually make the music.
Yeah.
Typically, that's how it works.
Troll us, why don't you?
Now if I remember right, do they charge you for internal hard drives also?
Yeah.
Because if they, oh, that's just awful because they didn't charge for internal hard drives and they didn't charge for hard drive cases.
So there is a budding, uh, a lot of the ISPs.
Of course, ISPs love newsness because it means all this stuff is only common once into their network.
If they run a server, then, you know, they, they have no problem whatsoever passing that down.
Because they only pay the appearing costs once for all this stuff coming in rather than with torrents.
If you have, uh, I don't know, 4,000 users downloading a movie over newsness, you're downloading it once.
If you have 4,000 users coming down from your downloadness, uh, 8,000 times because you're beat.
You have the uploads as well going, which is also costly.
Even if they don't provide the server, they can still provide the cash.
Exactly.
So I know perfect.
They will be new servers.
Now that does bring up another interesting project.
I'd like to get involved in, um, I want, I don't know.
Of course, you're all familiar with Raspberry Pi.
How many of you are familiar with Rachel?
No.
Okay.
Rachel is a project to create hotspots or small areas for schools overseas.
Um, the Rachel distro contains.
I think it's somewhere around, um, well, it's, it's supposed to go on a 32 gig card, but it's actually somewhere around like, uh, 20 some gigs of data.
Um, everything from a large selection of the Gutenberg project to a Wikipedia for schools installation.
To, um, medical library, um, to a variety of other things.
Essentially, everything you'd need in a basic library for K through 12 education.
Also a good selection of Khan Academy videos all in that little 21 gig space.
That is a brilliant resource.
Tell us more about this project.
Please.
Um, they do have a version for windows that you can try out.
You have to download it over their FTP or just grab the torrent of it because yeah, 20 gigs over FTP socks.
Um, on the windows version, you can start it up.
I've tried it on Linux.
There are broken things in there because of the system they used.
I want to convert it over to XMPP, but the system they have it integrated into doesn't work well on Linux.
I want that rectified.
Um, you run a web server and you can serve this content out.
They want you to put it on, you know, Ethernet and then serve it out to whatever other computers are in the area.
The idea being that you can have one system, um, the Raspberry Pi, for example,
you can have it with a wireless chipset that then broadcast any other wireless computers in the area and serves out.
Say the videos for Khan Academy.
Everything's in H264 where it can be.
They have a nice music sector to allow the music on there.
It's there's any number of things that can be useful to a growing area for technology.
What I want to look at doing for it is even more interesting though.
Um, I want to look to put a proxy on it.
So for example, if you're going to Wikipedia content,
local content, and then if you thought you needed more information,
it could have a link at the bottom.
Actually, because of the amount of censorship on with.
At that point, you could have certain users that could say go out onto the internet.
But at the same time, if you got a link to Wikipedia,
there's no reason you can't be handed the local Wikipedia page.
Or if you're looking at Khan Academy,
there's no reason you can't be handed the local video.
First and then maybe the remote video as a last resort sort of proxy system.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I've worked on that sort of system for, uh,
one of those working as with the Sassalized ISP.
We had those sort of cash the entire internet devices.
Which seemed like a good idea, but I don't know.
Well, among systems, in some cases, you really have to.
And I returned.
Welcome back, sir. Welcome back.
Yes, welcome back.
But they're all sorts of taking reach to the part.
Well, there are all sorts of things you can do for it up next to the reason
that it really requires a lamp stack.
It looks like is to allow the search functionality.
It has something like a 600 mag MySQL database.
And it looks like it's just for the search functionality on the system.
This is seriously something I would think about putting up in the neighborhood here,
just as, by the way, you know, I was thinking about that myself.
I was also thinking in some, some more rural areas to have this on at a library,
or similar, or even to have it in a hack in the box,
so that you can have a small solar panel, a Raspberry Pi,
and, you know, a wireless chipset hooked up.
And I mean, for a small solar panel, you can serve an area with no problem.
I was also thinking about it for, you know, small schooling areas.
One example is, I don't know if any of you have ever been to Renaissance festivals.
No, not for many years.
In many cases, the people that work Renaissance festivals from one festival to another
as they go seasonally through the different areas of the country.
So in many cases, they take the children with them and the children are homeschooled as part of it.
Are there other various things in that area?
And many of these have to use satellite app, or they have to use internet over their phone.
And so a resource like this, they'd be done with it.
One of the other things I was looking at, there's no reason at all that projects that give old computers to kids.
If they have a 40 gig hard drive, there's no reason they can't put 20 of it toward every textbook
they will ever need throughout their education.
So we say again?
Essentially, this is 20 gigs containing almost any book you would ever need for your education for a standard K-12 education,
including the Wikipedia for schools.
There's no reason a lot of these projects that give a child a computer.
You know, an old refurbished computer, there's no reason if they're using a 40 gig hard drive or an 80 gig hard drive
that they can't dedicate 20 gigs of that to this offline usable resource.
Even if there is no internet available, they have everything they need to do that.
All of the content is viewable, except for, of course, the database features which require minus QL,
just going to the various pages index file on of the various parts of the project.
It's really extraordinary.
That's sorry, that reminds me of the pyrebox device.
That's why I was talking about the hack in the box kind of thing.
Yeah, but it actually reminds me of more a disastrous scenario type thing.
You know, zombie apocalypse does come.
You do want a copy of Wikipedia in order to be able to rebuild the internet.
That's also where it gets rather interesting.
And one of the reasons I was looking at it, I've downloaded it on to a couple of my laptops,
because another couple of the books they have on there are a few books.
I forget the foundation that publishes them that have instructions on basic medical care.
One of which is called, I think it's a village with no dentist,
where it gives basic instructions on tooth care and other basic instructions on sort of basic dental surgery is needed.
It also gives instructions for women's medical care in another separate book.
There's another book for care for disabled children.
And all of these books are included in that project.
And this is part of the Rachel project itself, is it?
This is part of the Rachel project.
It's a World Connect org I believe.
Fantastic.
Going to post a link into the Rachel project itself here real quick.
You're doing that, we will get ready for the Raspberry Pi itself.
We'll get, we'll get ready to welcome in some more regions of the US,
some regions of Canada and two more places which are strange and foreign names as Los Angeles,
San Francisco, Las Vegas and Seattle.
Seattle.
I know I saw the movie.
I think that's also Microsoft country, so maybe it is Seattle.
It's only fair if we've looked at every other country's names, city names that we should do at the US.
I was listening to a show here the other day and they were talking,
I was a show on fast software.
They were talking about a certain project which creates a system.
It was rather odd.
It fills the need that the demise windows, home server sort of left open.
Oddly enough, most of their install base seems to be in this little town called Redmond, Washington.
Yeah.
Pretty best.
That would be the case.
How does the Windows Media Server stopped?
I understand Windows Home Server is kind of flopped all together and I think they stop supporting it overall.
I just can't help thinking that it must be a very difficult thing to do to pick a material that should go on to a device like this.
You know, just purely from the point of view of politically correct and consolidating that with all the people's beliefs and things like that.
Or maybe it's a lot easier than that.
Well, if you look through the Spirit Guides, the one that I was talking about before, like where there is no doctor, a village health care handbook.
If you read through the book, it was written for people in Latin America to go through.
But part of the book says this needs to be adapted to the culture itself.
If you need to use the information here, use the pictures, use whatever.
But don't charge for actually handing somebody a book.
The idea being that you want to put the book in your own language or put the book in their language and adapt it to their customs or allow them to adapt it to their customs.
I'm with you.
Oh, this is brilliant.
Thank you very much.
This is absolutely brilliant.
This is going up and down.
Oh, of course.
You can also look through the Medline Medical Encyclopedia and there it's quite extraordinary.
What all you can fit on just 20 gigs of space?
I've had this idea for ages, like just downloading the entire Wikipedia because it's not that big if you don't take the images in.
But then the question is like, what do you pick out of that?
But this seems to be like a curation.
Let's reboot civilization type type of thing.
I'm definitely putting one of these up for the neighborhood.
That's it.
And Wikipedia for schools has done most of the work for that.
They've taken out the things that probably shouldn't have been taken out.
They've categorized it to be, well, they've categorized it, period.
And that's kind of the point of it is that it's categorized into the various sections that go into science, world politics, etc.
You can search through it and find an article on JK Rowling, for example, in Harry Potter, because that's significant in literature.
You can also find something on the workings of the heart.
At the same time, you can go down to the science articles and look in the Khan Academy Science section about the heart and see how it works.
Go through, see how everything works on there.
Then you can go down to the Medline and Cyclopedia and look at the medical terms and the medical, well, medical information on the heart, on heart conditions, etc.
It's like a library on a pot.
Yes, this is exactly what it is.
Seriously, this is, I'm getting very excited in most of it.
This to me seems a lot more logical thing to give somebody.
Here's a, instead of giving like iPads and things to kids here at JK Rowling.
Well, here's where it gets interesting too.
It integrates with the LLPC and it has a variety of LLPC educational packages on the install.
It also has three different versions of MIT's scratch program.
All right, there's a lesson to be learned here, folks, and that lesson is do not assume that everybody knows about all the stuff that you come across online.
That's what HPR is for.
If the, please, can you imagine how I would never have known about this.
I should have known about this, never have known about this, and yet you didn't do a show about this.
How is this possible? Come on.
I learned about it a few weeks ago myself, and I've been rather busy.
I have been working on getting MP3 players up, and I do happen to have a Sans of Fuse sitting here with an extra 4GIG microSD in it.
And I'm going to have to just, you know, while I'm sitting working on stuff out.
No, I'm getting, I assume that you knew about this for years, and just assumed everybody else knew about this.
So, fantastic, that you thought.
I'm obsessed with these things.
I obsess with these things so much, and then push them out, because you never know what you're going to find that's going to be useful to somebody else.
I must say I do basic math on the academy from time to time, for the kids you understand, not for me.
Well, you can go through calculus. This does include all of the math sections.
And they explain them very well. It's excellent, excellent.
They also have K through 12 STEM text books down below, including all of the math text books.
STEM is science, technology, engineering, and math.
Oh, that is brilliant.
That is brilliant.
They also include teachers' editions.
Oh, that is brilliant.
Seriously, I'm very into the concept.
I've taken a selection, select, look through the World Literature e-book section, essentially Gutenberg Project.
And it does, in fact, include Corey Dockdrow's work.
Okay, I actually want to roll up on the way to my wife, but she would be very unimpressed after the night she had.
So, yes, cool.
She's happy new year, right?
Yeah, that's it.
Dang, look what I found. Look what I found on the internet.
You have a nice music theory area where you can go through and take lessons.
Unfortunately, that's not in H264. That's actually in Shockwave.
So you have to have some Shockwave support on there.
I suspect the power typing is going to be the same thing.
Okay, yeah.
I'd love to see it converted though over to GIFs or similar.
And that will be another project for somebody to work on, because there are some things that just cannot manage Shockwave flash.
Yeah, true enough.
And it's supporting going anyways.
Well, that's the thing when you get down to it, a lot of this stuff was just collected from places that allow it to be out there.
And so not all of it's compatible, but those are some of the few things that are not compatible.
The Khan Academy videos are entirely in H264.
And the page for each video says, you know, if you can't watch it, here's the download link for this video.
And you can just download it and run it.
It's, why not?
Yeah, the Khan Academy is an absolute fantastic resource.
We're going to be having a video shortly on as part of the security series, which I'm just going to basically lift directly from the website, which is allowed under the lessons.
Oh, I forgot entirely.
Sorry about that.
Nothing that's nice about the Khan Academy.
Very little space.
But at the same time, they've kept enough resolution that it can really be used in H264.
That's a lot nicer.
Sorry, I missed the first part.
Sorry about that.
Part of the advantage to the encoding that they have on here is that they've made it extremely small.
So all of these videos can fit within this small space.
They have a pocket Khan Academy version on 16 gigs.
It's a Khan Academy on a stick.
Cool.
And this is all on the Rachel site, isn't it?
All on the what?
Is this all on the Rachel site?
Yeah, that's actually another Rachel product from what I've project from what I've seen.
I go to that worldPossible.org without the .Rachel or without the .py and you can find the same thing with that other part.
You can find the Khan Academy on a stick.
That can fit on a 16 gigs stick, though.
Who?
translensitive.
And of course, they have a web server to go along with it.
Although, of course, windows only so far.
But I'd like to see that changed over so that we have a selection of three different web servers.
All of them.
You know, based on something that can actually be used.
page on world possible and see where their deployments have been.
The entirety of the US is
colored as a deployment.
Okay, very good.
I thought it was kind of funny. I think there are only certain portions of the US that need
to be covered, but perhaps everybody's neighborhood should be.
Yeah, absolutely should be.
Of course, I also think that
you know, various places there should be houses linked together
for wireless links.
I think it would make a lot more sense than some of the internet stuff we have going on now,
and you can bet a lot of the kids will love it for gaming.
Yeah, I've been thinking of running a, you know,
strand of fiber around the back of our neighborhood.
It's funny, I've been forced to walk now and not much to drive or cycle around.
So, it's kind of a lot of time walking around the neighborhood.
And at a certain point, the mind wanders too.
I wonder how I would string fiber off to cable to each house there,
back to my, to put up a local neighborhood in China.
I will say I grew up in a rather small town,
but they had a rather nice telephone company.
So, as it turns out, my mother has fiber directly to her house now.
Well, yeah.
As does everybody in a town of under a thousand.
Oh, we're getting there.
Yeah.
Did I hear about the 9.11 grams sometimes?
No, that was, most of that was put in because the telephone company looks for ways to spend the money they have.
Because if they don't spend it, they have to send it back.
Ah, okay, gotcha.
It's a nice little telephone cooperative.
We had a push here by one of our, well, one of the main telecom providers,
you know, and they had this account marketing campaign that if they,
we wouldn't get fiber optics unless 30% of the entire town signed up for,
signed up for it, you know, which, you know,
about if that's impossible.
I'm surprised probably as we get with any.
That kind of reminds me of another project that I was looking at not too long ago.
Even less a project more company.
There's one in the Spokane area of Washington called Cougar Wireless.
And using various systems, they're putting wireless in a variety of otherwise unserved areas or underserved areas.
From what I understand, they've built out for as little as three,
three customers in an area.
Okay.
But when you look at commercial wireless availability these days,
like microwave towers, et cetera, there's no reason not to have a wireless ISP in most areas.
Yeah, but they're, they're so flaky.
Connections are soft.
Not if you do it right.
And it's, sometimes it's hard to do it right.
If the houses are down in a hollow and surrounded by trees, you know.
If they're down in a hollow and surrounded by trees, then you put something in the trees,
and you put something above the trees.
Yeah.
Not to mention if each person in the area has a wireless system that then transmits to two others,
you mesh everything together, you're good.
I mean, at least if you can get through the three connections coming in.
You'll have a connection, but you're not going to have a, you're going, everybody's got the subset of the overall bandwidth.
Well, you do have that issue.
Of course, you can also pump more bandwidth in.
Now, as far as trees, there are certain frequencies that are not affected by trees.
Yeah, but whether the guys are able to get off the shelf hardware to use those frequencies, that's the only question.
Well, it's not always off the shelf.
I've also been looking at some of this hardware and some of it you have everything from 900 megahertz.
All the way up to 5.4 megahertz and sometimes even higher.
The idea being that you can get around whatever you need to get around.
Some of these devices now can do three or four entirely different bands all at the same time.
So that you can have somebody with a 2.4 gigahertz wireless card in their computer.
And at the same time, you can be retransmitting across the way from say one grain elevator to another.
And serving two different areas at the same time.
The router I just picked up does 2.4 gigahertz and 5 gigahertz at the same time.
And that's known on common because you have N which uses both of them.
You had 802.11 A which used 5 gigahertz or 5.4 gigahertz and 802.11 B which used 2.4 gigahertz.
Part of the advantage too is that to some degree, some loss of power, you can use the same antennas with 5 and 2.4.
Yeah. Okay. Yes. There are certain areas where there's no internet.
It would be everybody's benefit to do this. But if it's only happens to be one or two houses over community that don't have access.
And generally the other neighbors wouldn't see the benefits in this or they just for the one neighbor who does need it.
Well, that's that's where it gets interesting to take Google Wireless for example.
If you look at their form to request internet service.
Part of it is asking, do you have a neighbor that might also want internet service?
Or can you talk to this neighbor and see if they might be interested in internet service?
And frankly, it might be something as simple as saying to an older person, well, you know, you like Dr. Who when it was on TV.
You can't get very good TV reception here because the broadcast tower just, you know, the broadcast repeater doesn't work anymore since they've switched to digital.
And in many cases, that's the case while you can get everything on Netflix for a lot cheaper than satellite.
Yeah, sure enough.
But are you going to be able to stream on Netflix or a connection like that?
A lot of these connections are perfectly fine for doing that. I mean, a connection here in the U.S. clear wire is a YMAX provider.
They do YMAX and 4G connections. It can stream Netflix fine.
Yeah, what quality?
Low quality, but when you're looking at a person that has a tube television set.
But if you're talking about someone who wrote about 1.5 megabits symmetrical.
When you're talking about small embedded devices, usually those are set up for HD and whatnot.
I don't know if many that are set up for low quality.
They can cycle down if you have a lower quality connection.
Yeah, they will do that automatically.
But I'm still not convinced that wireless connections work reliably.
My brother happens to be in an area where he's not served by the local ISP.
And he's tried MMDS, microwave, YMAX. He's now on 4G.
All the connections, the old start off fine, the reliability is fine.
And then, as more people get on the network, then the quality degrades rapidly to a point where in the evening it's completely unusable.
That's how it is overall.
My cousin, more of my wife's cousin is there.
They have two options for internet satellite and YMAX slash 4G.
You have to think that satellite is the same. It's also a wireless connection.
But it's more robust. They've put a lot more work into it.
So when you look at these wireless connection options as well, you have to look at a provider that's going to put more work into it.
And frankly, you know, where I grew up, sometimes you just have to go out there and provide the service yourself.
That's why there's a community telephone company.
Why it's set up that way?
Because sometimes the people have to provide where a company just doesn't see the profit motive.
Yeah, I know. I get that.
I have loads to say in the satellite internet connection, their goal is to put many customers on there as possible,
because they need to over-subscribe it as much as possible.
Again, to make it possible.
It's a very expensive proposition.
Go on, satellite is interesting.
Any of the wireless providers are going to be doing the same thing.
And frankly, satellite internet has been going down lately in price.
Because of a lot of that.
It's going up and bandwidth and down in price, because one of them not put up and actually has been pushing the rest of them down a bit.
So it's getting a little bit nicer.
But at the same time, you have a reliable connection or a relatively reliable connection over satellite.
There's no reason we can't do that on the ground.
Well, the thing that we would use to do when I was commercially working in IC was use a mobile phone back home.
Or the, you know, some of the command to control up and then do a lot of the streaming then directly down over the satellite.
So you have the benefit of like 20 megabits per second to come and down.
And you're using a crappy GSM connection to browse to the web page to initiate the RTSP connection.
And that wasn't an uncommon way.
And it's still not really that uncommon today, especially with the wireless prices in the areas that you can do.
But some areas you can't really afford to do that either.
Yeah, it doesn't mean having two subscriptions, which is a bit of a pain.
Well, it depends.
It can mean having two subscriptions for the customer or it can mean having a subscription for the customer.
And then the rest is covered by the wireless carrier.
There was a device that was set up.
It wasn't really competing with the blackberry.
I think it's still available.
But it was a small embedded device.
They did have a SIM card in them.
But they paid the money for it.
And you could receive just email on the device.
It didn't have phone functions.
It didn't have PDA functions.
It had a small keyboard and the ability to receive email.
And they would push the email through to you.
And you would pay the company itself.
And then they would pay for the data connection on the device.
Similar to the setup that Sprint has with the Amazon Kindle in the US.
Yeah, of course you can trickle it down because they...
Of course, and it's cheaper if you get that in bulk.
So if you look at the device like that, it's going to be in bulk.
So with those satellite connections, you don't really need to have two subscriptions.
You just need to have one subscription that then trickles down the rest.
Yep.
Well, it's going back too much.
We started earlier on today.
It was a wiring connection.
It's a physical connection.
It was a far preferable.
Physical connection is ideal.
That started off with my wiring in my house here.
So is this going to be the bottom topic of next year physical connections?
I don't think so.
I don't think so.
I don't think so.
No, we didn't we didn't harp on it like over like five or six hours,
which was kind of what happened last year.
No, we are going to have an entire show dedicated to it.
Six hours long, thinking about the health and well-being of various food products.
So do you have any links for some of this technology that's our ideas that you have?
Are you planning on doing some shows?
I'm planning on doing so many shows, but it's just it's overwhelming.
It just gets that way.
I need to find somebody I can actually sit down and talk with about some of this stuff.
And as far as the one for salvaging computers,
that one I'm probably just going to do a single person show shoving it out.
Volunteers, please step forward to be a songboard, please.
I'd love to be a soundboard when I'm available.
Now I myself have a few other interests.
And I still owe clatu a show on creating a stealth van.
A stealth van?
Excuse me?
Automobile van?
An automobile van.
A van that you can live and sleep in yet looks like a standard van.
I want to hear that too.
I want to hear that too.
I so want to hear that.
The idea being, of course, that you can play the gypsy lifestyle so to speak.
Yet at the same time, you can sleep in the van.
You can make it look like a standard work van.
If you have a 1-800 number that doesn't follow to anything, then you're good to go on that.
Nobody will ever question having a work van there with no address,
and very basic information that says absolutely nothing.
If you're talking not like a caravan van, you're talking about some dudes' work,
like a painter's van, the trades person's van.
Exactly.
It's easier to hide inside if you look like you're supposed to be there.
Exactly.
Get a reflector of one of those high-visibility jack-up things when you go in and out and you're done.
And everybody's going to question you sitting in the back of the vehicle for a long amount of time.
Ladder rack, cell phone antenna.
Unless, of course...
And you don't even really need to go that far.
I mean, you can literally have, you know, such-and-such painting with a 1-800 number.
You can even have the 1-800 number leading to a calling service or leading to your own cell phone.
But, you know, if you just put it as a painting service, assuming painters don't have to have a special license in the area where you are,
you can set up for that.
Now, if you have something more like utility service or like a contracting utility service,
then you'd have the ability to put cones in front of them behind you and effectively park almost anywhere without anybody questioning it.
What are you calling this thing?
Stealth Founders?
Stealth.
Well, yes.
S-T-E-A-L-T-H.
You can find various information out about stealth vehicles, stealth living arrangements and similar.
There was one man who took an old Ford van and lived out of it on a campus of a significant university.
And just went there, he paid for the parking space, didn't actually pay the living room on campus and just lived out of the van.
He's been looking to write a book on it, but he had quite a good blog on it.
Very excellent.
I want to hear this.
Also, quite a bit less creepy than Clat 2's version of living in the school buildings themselves.
Whoops, for anybody not listening, or not familiar with Clat 2's excellent series of urban camping.
Yeah.
And has affected my perception on a lot of things, actually.
That new question, you know, quite a bit in the mortgage sometimes.
And he made a slight, a slight reference to, you know, food at five to five on a Friday evening.
This piece of produce has a value of five dollars.
And then five minutes later, it shifted, you know, a meter to the other side of the door.
And suddenly it has no value.
It's very, very interesting to be challenged with that sort of show.
I really need to do some more.
It is definitely something to think about.
I think it would be a lot more interesting if a lot of the retailers could understand the idea that it's not a lost sale.
If it's a sale, they would never make.
But when we look at the industry, unfortunately, that's what we get.
And so a lot of these stores end up having compactors behind the stores.
Not even for the ideal of necessarily needing to make their trash a little smaller.
But for the ideal that they don't want somebody picking through their trash and getting things that they could have bought in the store.
Just from my wife actually to this week that one of the biggest, one of the big super market chains here in the Netherlands has a, has put on a, have a policy now that if an item is on, on the, you know, it's on the day or the day before the sell by date that they'll give it free.
You just need to go to the checkout and the fill in the form.
And not a bad idea.
Brilliant idea.
It was some magazine where this guy doesn't have a lot of cash, but loves eating mussels.
So it goes into the shop and makes note of all the dates.
And then comes in on the dates and sometimes there are mussels after over sometimes they're enough, but get some for free.
At the same time around here, they have a shelf for milk.
And now mark the milk half price when it's I think within three to five days of itself by date.
Yep, and that's happening quite a lot as well.
Most of the shops now do like they'll take 50% off as it comes up to it and more.
So you can get some good deals that way.
Oh yeah, in many cases, you can get some good deals and it actually sells before it goes to the, you know, trash heap in the back.
And at the same time, it's amazing what you can find in the trash.
I think we need a few shows on dumpster diving, which means I'm probably also going to have to add that to my list of shows to make.
It's starting to get overwhelming.
No, but you got just a tip on that quick introduction for people who have been overwhelmed by short ideas is get a book and notebook and put the show topic on each of the pages.
And then as time goes on right down, I'm okay, I want to discuss this.
I want to discuss that in the show.
And then you have your show notes ready for when you want to do your show.
I like that and you don't end up with novels because you get a page each.
My notebooks full, Ken.
Okay, then you need to start recording the shows, actually recording them and do it on mumble with somebody that way.
They get to do the editing and you're not procrastinating about whether you're going to take your arms and arms out.
Oh, I don't edit. I just record and post you demand.
Yeah, leave your arms and eyes in.
Nobody's really going to call issue with it.
No, the longer it is, the better.
The longer the arms and arms.
Yeah, the more dead silence, I can get in there.
It looks like I actually put a 30 minute show together in 10 minutes.
Yeah, tell us a couple of people jumping in their phones, listening to it.
But that is a tip.
If you are recording a show and there's, if you can train yourself to do the, just to be quiet instead of doing
ums and ums, truncate silence will take those out.
So if that's something that you can train yourself today, but I seriously suggest everybody get a notebook,
uh, HBR notebook and like top show, show topics.
Oh, that might be an interesting one.
And then how would I explain that?
But I'm also doing a show on how to do a show, which is in my notebook.
No, I'd also like to do a decent show on lot picking.
But that's really more of a visual issue than anything else.
But the lot picking community would make a good, a good show, top it itself.
Yeah, for sure.
You seem to be more like me and having more shows, show ideas than you have shows.
Yeah, I, I don't have any shows except for this and last year's so far.
Oh, come on, dude.
No, I'm going to say, wait, I, I mean, last year's in this year's show.
But you, uh, but this should count for a lot.
I mean, we're talking 24 and 26 hours, between us.
We've done 50 hours worth of shows at this point.
Stop pointing.
Sorry, 50 hours each.
Hey, we're filling the dead silence is you got to give us something for that.
We're making these six hour shows last for something.
Yeah, I do appreciate it.
But unfortunately, I don't, this is all going on up under the title of various artists that you won't have.
You won't have credit for this.
Oh, come on, you're killing me.
Credit is for people who need their dues.
You know, I, I will be the only person who appears in every single hour of this show.
I'm very happy for your attention.
Thanks for bringing this through or really appreciate it.
Yeah, it's never a problem.
I just like to make fun of the soul thing of your shows.
No, no, you're talking about a disaster relief earlier and recovering from a world issue, right?
Yes, I was.
All right.
Have you ever looked at the, uh, IDEN radios?
No.
Link, please.
IDEN was the first digital cell phone service available.
Uh, it was actually developed as a police radio by Motorola.
And the last hours for it were shut down by next tell in the US,
although I think Southern Link does still have it in a few other countries still have it.
Southern Link does still have it.
The funny thing is, uh, this supported a data service up to 128 kilobits per second.
Um, over direct serial out of the bottom of these phones or out of USB.
Uh, it supported actual direct calling and it supported a walkie talkie feature.
It wasn't developed as a phone.
It was developed as a trunk police radio.
But as it happened, they used them as phones because next tell came in and said,
well, this looks nice.
Now funny on that Southern link area, I think Southern Link is going to have them for quite a while because in many areas,
those are the police radios.
And what they would do is go to various police departments and say,
you probably need to do radios and we kind of need a tower, which is that we work together.
Well, not only that, uh, Southern Link provides, uh, radio and phone service to, uh,
Georgia Power utility company back down in Georgia.
But here's where it gets really fun.
Uh, most of the later phones could provide off network usage through direct talk.
That's a 900 megahertz radio that can get roughly a miles range.
And they sell with a lithium ion battery and SIM card, which means with the SIM card,
you get a phone number able to talk encrypted from phone number to phone number over the SIM card,
um, for five bucks on eBay.
Oh, that is interesting.
What's the range?
Uh, so we're around a mile.
That's essentially a one to three watt 900 megahertz radio.
Well, that's interesting.
And you can get these directly off eBay for five bucks a piece.
Some models, the one specifically sold by next tell later on had the direct talk feature built in.
The other ones didn't a lot of the earlier ones didn't have that feature.
But the idea was that in a disaster area or in an off the grid construction site,
even somebody could just, you know, go off tower pick a frequency,
go through it, still had the encryption if you were to talk from one to another.
If you knew the phone number of the other caller, you were both on the same frequency.
You could be encrypted from you to them.
Uh, this is, it's not bad technology.
It just, you know, nobody ever looked at these things.
Oddly enough being a ham operator, I tend to look at a lot of these interesting extra features.
Now at the same time, if you want to get your kids trained to properly use two radios,
at least in the US, they have a GMRS and FRS.
GMRS requires a license, but FRS is entirely available on some frequencies.
And over, there is some overlap.
It actually just a basic radio that you can pick up for anywhere from five to ten dollars.
Sometimes as much as 60 can be used in an emergency circumstance,
as long as the entire neighborhood has them.
Welcome back.
Looks like did you fall out of the channel or did you move out?
I wasn't sure I didn't hear any feedback.
I wasn't sure if anybody else was hearing me.
Uh, I think I heard you, but I kind of lost track of where you were.
So, sorry, I kind of got lost in some other stuff here.
I understand entirely, I was actually talking about a GMRS radios and similar,
a lot of these full handheld radios.
Most people don't chalk them up to anything more than, you know,
a way to find your kids in the mall.
But if everybody in a neighborhood has them in an emergency,
even if all of the cell phone traffic is down,
at least if you have an agreed upon frequency, they have basic batteries,
you know, AA, AAA, even lithium ion if you modify many of them correctly,
and you have a basic radio that you can talk to your neighbors wirelessly and communicate.
If an entire neighborhood is trained to have them, especially in disaster prone areas,
you have a resource when everything else is down to talk from one neighbor to another.
Hmm, okay.
So, basically, I want to say a mesh network, but it's just a basic communication type network.
Basic communication is all you need.
I mean, not everybody can afford to get a hand license and actually get to the further areas.
Oh, yeah.
Getting easier.
Yeah, I'm not suggesting otherwise.
I was saying it's pretty much like a basic, but it's a small area,
but effectively just a large enough area that you can have a decent community interacting.
And that's kind of exactly it.
If you have a close knit neighborhood,
I mean, some of these radios can get some pretty good distance on them.
You can talk to your neighbors.
I mean, aside from the fact that you don't have to call your neighbors, you can call your neighbors.
But for that matter, if something happens, you know, leave a set of alkaline batteries near it
and change them out every once in a while, and you'll have that ability to have some way to call in an emergency.
That's one of the big things most people don't think about as a set of alkaline batteries can kind of save your life there.
Yeah, definitely having any good set of batteries that you can actually use in an emergency
is highly recommended and worthwhile.
That was one of the kind of one of the other topics I brought up right near the start of the show
was I think when I started talking about like some e-six and vaping stuff,
one of the devices I have actually can be used to recharge a cell phone or anything else
that I can hook up through USB cable.
And the whole reason I got it is because it will serve as a backup battery for a lot of different devices.
Oh, that does remind me since I've already raped all of the stores around here for them.
If anybody is near a radio shack any time soon, there is an inner cell, power brick,
that's actually more of a wallet, I suppose.
A adjustable voltage that has an internal 14 volt lithium ion cell or a group of cells
can be adjusted from 3 to 12 volts and charges off of a standard AC outlet.
It does not interrupt charge when it's unplugged, assuming that the battery has turned on
and it can provide five volts to two amps
and includes an end if you buy them.
I think I was picking them up at $10 a piece
for basically a backup battery supply
for any DC device up to 12 volts.
Whoa, do you have a link?
That one they took off of the RadioShack website.
I was ordering them in from other RadioShacks.
If you can find them, catalog number 2, 3, 0, 1, 1, 9, 6.
They've also had the battery powered in burgers sale.
Similarly for, I've seen them as low as $10 or $20.
Once again, a 14 point or 14 volt lithium ion battery
inside of a rechargeable inverter.
91 inverter, you do the math.
Okay, I see it. I've got a link here.
Now keep in mind a lot of these devices
are usually 60, 70 bucks when they first come out.
But even if you get them with a dead battery,
the cells are worth redoing.
When you say redoing a cell, what do you mean?
You can pop out the cells they have in there
and put together a battery pack of your own.
Okay.
They're standard lithium ion cells.
They're 14 point, I forget what voltage,
which is nominal, which is...
14.7...
That's 3.7 cells, three of them, I think.
Oh, you can't do that in Canada.
Why not?
Lithium cells are classified as dangerous material
unless in the manufacturer's case.
So you can't get bare cells?
You can't get bare cells.
And if you happen to get bare cells, say, in the US
and modify your laptop battery,
and they inspect your laptop and find
that the battery's been modified, they will confiscate it.
Oh, that's just absolutely insane.
Yeah, I'm down a laptop battery because of it.
So you have to refurbish in a professional manner?
Well, I upgraded a 6-cell to a 12-cell
and put the case back on,
put a little piece of plastic, some epoxy,
it looked good, fit right,
even raised up the back of the laptop
so that it cooled better.
But, yeah.
That just makes me wonder who's getting paid.
That's very central, no.
Yep, that's the inner cell I was talking about.
And these things are just beautiful.
I have one power in one of my routers right now.
I carry another one with me whenever I go walking
for my phones.
So you just unplug them and away it goes.
It continues with it.
That's it.
If you leave it in the on position for the battery,
it will just keep operating both outputs,
the USB and the cord, which the cord is adjustable,
and you can put any of the little adapter plug
brand plugs into it or really any of the generic ones
you can find that are compatible.
I see the adapter right there.
In my case, many of my things
instead of getting an adapter plug,
I've gotten the micro USB adapter plugs.
And then for anything that isn't micro USB,
because of course micro USB wears out,
it has a certain cycle.
These are actually rather robust.
I haven't had anywhere out yet.
But on the other devices, I tend to just cut off a cord
and wire the cord into this.
We do mark the negative polarity on the plug end itself now,
which is nice.
Yeah.
Good.
So this was intended as UPC was a UPS.
It was intended as a variable voltage UPS.
And it works fine.
I mean, it wasn't really marketed as a UPS.
That's the funny thing is it was just marketed as a power brick,
but the design is of an actual UPS.
And it works great to take it with you.
You can shut off the battery backup feature
so that you can take it with you.
There's no noise.
They don't heat up a lot.
There's just two indicator lights on the front of it.
And they even have a switch for the USB port.
So if you have devices that require a data connection on there
or require the data lines to have something on there,
you can switch over to that mode or switch it off
for devices that require otherwise.
Oh, very nice.
There's no way I'm going to be able to find one of these over here.
I never say never, but it's also something interesting
to think about because it might be something that can be built.
Yeah.
Another one of my projects that I'm working on is,
you know, these things aren't going to last forever.
And granted, I'm going to rebuild them.
If it has screws, it's a lot easier to rebuild.
I'm with it.
And if they don't know it's lithium ion,
it's a lot easier to rebuild and get away with it.
But one of the things to think about on there, too,
is, are either.
The radio does not endorse the illegal activity
taking the part.
No, hacker public radio does not endorse illegal activity
through not mentioning that you've rebuilt things
to the people at the border.
The one thing I've been thinking of,
I've also got a six volt battery.
I was, you know, running by a nice dumpster and my van
and, hey, there's a hot wheels car.
You know, one of these big old child's cars.
Yeah.
When I was at DerbyCon, I saw a lot of the modifications
that can be made to those.
So I figured I'd take a look at it.
Well, it turns out the charger for it was behind the seat
or under the seat.
And it seems like somebody had decided to sit down in it
and broke off the charger plug.
Oh, and the plug was hanging along the work.
Therefore, the car was useless.
Well, there was the charger plug with it broken off.
I could see everything.
So I break out my screwdriver, break it down,
pop out the six volt battery.
I have it sitting right here.
I actually have the charger for it.
I'm kind of worried about continually using this charger
because it states six volts at one amp,
but it puts out somewhere around 11.
Whoa.
The battery itself is a six volt seven amp hour AGM battery.
Now, if you're really lucky,
you can still find a 12 adapter that will take six volts
and still put out a good five volts.
Of course, you're not really lucky
because that's a horribly regulated power supply.
So you probably don't want to use that.
On the other hand, there are devices.
If you have a six volt battery like this,
what else adds up to six volts?
Four AAA batteries or four AA batteries.
And if you can find a pack adapter that takes AA batteries
or AAA batteries to a USB port,
then you have an effective six volt to five volt regulator.
Along with that again?
Okay. If you have a AA batteries,
you can find a pack that will allow you to insert four AA
or AAA batteries and output USB voltage.
It's an emergency system.
So you hook that up to a six volt battery
because essentially that's all it is.
This is a six volt battery.
Not to mention effectively a six volt battery really is
just a series of 1.5 volt or 1.2 volt really cells
that are charged up to a higher degree.
Hook that up and you have a USB port output.
Okay.
So as simple as that,
you take a little cell like this,
which you could carry in most any pocket, frankly.
Put that in your pocket.
It's an AGM cell, so it doesn't leak.
You wire that to the converter
and you have a USB port out on a six volt battery.
Suffice to say it's quite a significant battery
if you need to go say bike riding for a long time.
You can take your phone and keep your phone charged
off of a six volt or 12 volt battery right there.
Right. Yes.
No. The pin is six. Yes.
Yes.
I understand.
Or for that matter,
you could do the 12 volt versions,
the type that you'd usually find in a backup power supply.
And if you would even take,
even to take an older one
and mount it to a bike is not hard,
you can also find the trickle chargers
for 12 volt,
$6 for a...
Are you cracking up for everybody or just me?
Nice cracking up for me too.
Welcome everybody.
Yeah, I'm not on a great connection.
Is that better?
A little bit, but not that much.
All right, let me see if I can connect to a better source here.
Hold on a sec.
Now you sound really good.
See, every time I mention leaving,
yeah, it doesn't want to let you go.
At any rate, as it turns out,
with a 12 volt source,
taking an old AGM battery out of...
Does everybody know what AGM is?
Nope.
I do not.
Okay, does everybody know what a lead acid battery is?
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Okay, an AGM...
Does everybody know what a gel cell is?
Yes.
Someone...
Okay, gel cells have a variety of problems.
I'm not going to go into that.
Suffice to say they're a bad idea
in today's overall outlook.
So most UPSs have switched over to AGMs,
and they can be used in place at any rate.
An AGM is fiberglass mat
holding the electrolyte
with a 20% empty space.
The idea is that the...
Because of the way the battery is designed,
the electrolyte can evaporate
and then recycle into the battery
as it charges and discharges.
So you get better charge and discharge cycles.
You get a longer life on the battery
and you actually get better battery life
even taking away that 20% of charge.
But it's essentially just absorbed glass mats
so that the fiberglass itself
just absorbs the electrolyte.
Which means it's not spillable.
Also, it's a fully sealed battery system.
So you can turn it upside down
and run it upside down or on its side
with absolutely no problem
similar to what you could do on a gel cell
or had a gel electrolyte compound.
Now with the gel cells,
the electrolytic compound,
if you cycle it often,
could separate and in higher heat
from what I understood,
it could separate the gel itself
and so it's like you'd have cracks in gelatin
and they don't conduct very well.
You don't have this problem
with the AGMs as much,
so they're much better-lived battery.
I just posted a link to the Wikipedia article
on the AGMs gel structures.
Now what this also means, though,
is that you can put them on a bike
with very little protection.
You don't need to worry about venting as much.
You can put them inside of a UPS,
just like a gel cell.
So if you were to mount it to a bicycle
and put a small solar panel on a bicycle,
whenever you have it sitting outside,
it can be charging off of the trickle charger.
You can then take a standard 12 volt
to 5 volt adapter for a car
and charge your phone,
say, to use the GPS function while you're biking.
If you're really ingenious,
you can even modify the bike itself
to run to degree off of the cell
or charge the cell from the bike itself.
You can also get rather small 12 volt
and 6 volt cells
and something small enough to say
wear on a belt
or wear inside of a backpack
to have battery power
with you wherever you go.
The thing I'm a bit concerned about with batteries
is that you would wire them wrong
and somewhere I'm...
Is it in the fridge yourself or going fire?
Ah, there's this interesting device.
I'm not sure if you've heard of it.
It's an awesome device called a fuse.
Hardy, hardy, hardy, hardy.
Well, and they've got like...
What was it?
There's like a little like one-dollar fuse
type thing you can use.
I've heard of this
and I haven't actually found one yet.
You can see it in a little more than that.
What?
The cheapest fuse holder you can get
are two blade connectors.
If you look through any standard automotive wiring kit,
you'll find these little blade connectors
that are made to go on two blades.
Oddly enough, the same type of blades
that are found on these AGM batteries
are also found on a standard automotive large size fuse.
And so two blade connectors and you have a fuse holder.
Pop in the fuse and you're good to go.
Okay, cool.
As a matter of fact, I did blow a fuse
not too long ago doing something stupid.
But unfortunately, that fuse just happened
to be in my favorite car charger.
And I had to take apart and rewire that
because I couldn't for the life of me find the size of fuse
that that was using on board.
I may have to take that apart
and send pictures in for that.
But it was quite fun actually finding a fuse
that would fit in there and making the fuse holder
inside the case small enough to actually fit the fuse.
The things we do with little money.
I don't know why you needed to find a fuse
when you could just use a nail.
I could, on the other hand,
this is, as I say, my favorite car adapter.
It's a car adapter made for Verizon.
One of them carries around here.
It has an extra USB port on it.
And I think it's somewhere around the 2.3 amp charge.
I picked it up from the Goodwill computer store for $3.
Okay, I think we're coming up to another time zone.
Can somebody count that one down?
Three minutes.
Here we go talking about fuses.
We've got a small one right here.
Yes, that looks like a very nice one.
There. It's in the mumble chat right now.
Are we going to publish the mumble chat later?
No.
Yes, we are.
I'm going to add it to the show notes.
Keeping the show notes as we're going along
but we'll probably put the roll mumble chat in as well.
Okay, so that's a lithium ion safety fuse there.
So that's rather more specific if you're doing lithium ion applications.
So it will only work with lithium ion batteries then?
Well, it's specifically meant to avoid overvoltage or undervoltage on a lithium ion cell.
Keep in mind that if you get the cells from a store,
many of them will already have that circuitry built in,
depending on the type you get.
Most of your cell phone batteries already have that circuitry built in.
Yeah, I see a lot of these that they're using them for vaping and e-sigs,
where people are using what they call mechanical mods that are completely unregulated.
And they're using sub-owned resistance coils.
So they're wanting to make sure that when you're getting down to that low resistance
that you don't discharge your battery too high.
Yeah, I understand.
I've seen a lot of that stuff done and that's one of the big worries if you charge it too high.
You really should have a good lithium ion charger.
And most people just don't.
I mean, even a cheap, general lithium ion charger will do a better job than some of the things you see out there.
And I think we want to go ahead and say happy new year to Alaska in USA and French Polynesia
and places like Anchorage, Alaska, Fairbanks, Unalaska, Juno.
A variety of species of penguins that just aren't there.
Happy new year.
Happy new year.
And as usual, our reminder that we are doing this show tonight for the affordable, you know, what it looks like.
You're tired, dude, at the Accessible Computing Foundation.
Yeah, Accessible Computing Foundation, who is currently in the fundraising stage
to improve the Orca software, which is used for visually impaired access to computers.
They want to make it the world-leading software for accessing computers.
And they actually have a fundraiser going on right now at Indiegogo.
And the URL is HTTP colon slash slash IGG.me slash AT slash Orca.
Please visit them and make a donation.
They really need all the support they can get at this point.
So they can actually get this project going and really make this software into world-class software.
Yeah, I just pulled a blank on Accessible for some reason.
It went from Accessible to Affordable.
I think it's Affordable.
They used to have-
Affordable Care Act.
Well, no, no, no, not because of that, but because this fuse that I was looking up,
well, it's the two cents fuse for safety.
At some point, they actually had the word affordable, you know, or cheap.
So I kind of got that mixed into the whole thing.
It happens.
And frankly, the acronym, the ACF and ACA are rather similar.
I mean, it's just a few bits away.
Well, I'm supposed I'm working up to the 24-hour mark of being on here.
So I will take the-
I'm slightly tired at this point, line two.
What are you drinking?
I opened this beer I think two hours ago.
Yeah, I don't think I'm really drinking any of it for a while.
I'm currently sitting on Bacardi Dragonberry since midnight.
I'm zone to Duke.
Are you with Central?
That was about three hours ago.
Yeah, I see you and I are in the same time zone.
Yeah, Central.
I think this was-
I think this is where I'm midnight that I opened that beer and it hasn't gone anywhere.
I'm not a big fan of beer except for maybe dark beers.
And there are no dark beers in the house.
So yeah, 35%.
Well, I guess I'll deal with that.
Well, I see I was taking with the, you know, cheap like Bud Light type beers to keep it light so I didn't go overboard with the drinking.
Which hopefully you haven't done and hopefully you have some water there with you, too.
I emptied my bottle of water.
I guess I'm going to have to go refill it.
Shame.
I've had two, maybe three beers the whole night.
Well, I have more beers than I've had this month.
Yeah, but considering one or two drinks of what you're having, you've probably got more alcohol than all the beer I've had all night.
Well, in the middle, I usually don't drink, especially drinking this.
Most of the stuff, speaking of drinking, food.
And we really should have some episodes on that, speaking of that.
Yep, far ahead.
You know, I love cooking with wine and sometimes I even use it in the food.
I'm sorry, I heard cocaine with wine.
No, it was cooking.
Yes, cooking, cooking with wine.
As a matter of fact, if anybody would like to take down a recipe because I love recipes, take equal parts of a liquor called Southern Comfort and Butter in a frying pan.
Okay.
Add pork chops.
As the alcohol proceeds to cook away the flavorings and a lot of the essence of the Southern Comfort, which is a typically sort of caramel flavor, tends to go more to the fats.
So what you end up with is a nice caramel fat sauce.
Now, if, of course, you add flour, a little bit of water or milk, you can get a gravy, a caramel gravy.
But either way, if you cook it right, the butter isn't the only thing with a fat in it.
So as it cooks, it also cooks into the pork and you literally get caramel pork chops.
You can do similar to a lesser degree with Coca-Cola and some other colas with the pork chops, but it doesn't come out nearly as nice.
They're in Comfort, you say.
Alright, but do you do it in grilling?
As a matter of fact, I did some grilling earlier today. I had a couple pounds of potatoes, so I popped them on my modified grill on top of the frying pan and made myself some fries.
Alright, next time you do some foul, any kind of foul, preferably with a skin on, rub it down with mayonnaise, the real stuff.
And try and get some up underneath the skin as well.
Sprinkle some salt and pepper, little paprika on top.
Herbs usually go well with it.
Cook it on high to sear it for maybe five minutes, two and a half, three minutes each side, and then slow cook it the rest of the way you normally cook it.
Enjoy.
Well, I'm going to have to get these parts out of the shit, or I'm going to have to cut these parts out so I can write them down later.
We'll repeat that and I'll write it down in the show notes.
I'll simplify it.
Any bird that you grill, cover it with mayonnaise, real mayonnaise, not miracle whip stuff.
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, sear, and then cook normal.
Most of my grilling doesn't end up having a high or low temperature setting.
So to speak, most of the grilling I do is on a small 10 to $20 depending on the season grill from Walmart, intended for charcoal, oddly enough.
But if you take a three inch stove pipe, ideally the adjustable stove pipe so that you can adjust it to a different angle and bend and everything, and add a computer fan to the end of it,
put a hole through the grill and attach this whole thing to the side.
You end up making a really decent mini smoker and overall grill, and frankly I can cook eggs on this thing.
I actually rather like using it with my frying pan.
Well, actually, but you don't have to sear it. It's just rubbing it down with mayonnaise. You can slow cook it all you want.
What the mayonnaise does is it creates like a crust and it also seals in all of the juices.
Nice. I'm going to have to try that. I wonder how to work with dark meat especially because quite often they'll have the dark meat chicken in 10 pound bags for anywhere from 39 to 59 cents a pound.
I do this when I grill my turkeys and usually the comment I get is how did you get the dry meat to be wet?
Nice. So you actually have wet white meat?
Yeah, I don't eat white meat. I don't eat dry white meat. That's not meat. That's dog food.
And of course, as to the question of why white meat on the McNuggets, it's just so much easier to salvage than the dark meat.
Admittedly, as tasty as dark meat is, you really have to pull it off the bone with your teeth to get it right.
Not if you cook it right. You can just kind of shake it and it falls off.
And I've often done that as well. As a matter of fact, for Christmas, we boil the chicken.
Oh, no. That's not what I mean on the grill, but you boil it and you lose all the fat. It makes great broth, but you can do that with the bones.
Alright, I know I had a great broth and frankly, I used the chicken later on for other dishes, so I wanted it that far falling off.
And like I say, my grill isn't nearly as variable. I have on and off. I need to add a real stat to that fan.
Yeah, you cook with charcoal, don't you?
No, I cook with found wood. Even better.
Unfortunately, pine does not make a very good smoke.
No, it doesn't. If you can get a hold of some hardwood, chip it up and then soak it in some shard and wrap that in a single piece of aluminum foil.
Poke a bunch of holes in it and stick that right on top of your heat source and enjoy.
I usually just burn the wood directly.
Lately, I've been using mostly oak or walnut and mesquite.
Well, the chips are still going to be wet and dripping with wine when you're actually adding them onto the flame.
That's why you want to wrap them up in the tin foil and stuff.
I see what you mean. And yeah, I could probably, a lot of the time what I'll do is just take the mesquite chunks that you can get and similar.
Mesquite is a wonderful smoking wood and it doesn't have the same nut issues with people with nut allergies going to have a problem with stuff like walnut smoking.
But with mesquite, you get a really nice flavor but without all that trouble.
And mesquite is almost a weed in the southern United States.
So it's just brilliant for that.
But you can take it on this small grill.
Part of the reason for adding the fan to the side, it's just a little computer fan.
Part of the reason for adding the computer fan to it on the side with the stove.
So it doesn't overheat the fan and so it points down so that it doesn't allow the smoke to go up and hit the fan and deteriorate the fan.
Is that it gives it a good flavor and it allows you to use a hard wood or similar and just turn on the fan occasionally to sort of fan the flames without upsetting the ash.
And so you get a good hot flame or in some cases a good cool flame depending on how you're doing it.
And a lot of good smoke without having to have a large grill.
You can have a $10 grill with maybe $3, $4 in enhancements and yet have a good compact way to smoke some good meat.
I'm not picturing this. Do you have a photo?
Is it a circular grill or you got one of the squares?
Oh no, this is a small rectangular grill. Not the smallest they have. I've seen smaller since and I've been intrigued.
But no, I'll have to get the photos up here soon.
I picked up a 12 inch circle from Walmart for like 15 bucks.
Charcoal grill had a fold out legs and a detachable top which could also be locked.
This one also has a detachable top. I also ended up making a fire poker because I needed a fire poker and I'll also occasionally stir things.
You see signs all over now for political parties and everything else.
Some of them will buy houses and they have these nice little H patterned metal pieces.
And oddly enough you can bend them in just the right way to make a beautiful beautifully handled forked fire poker for a small grill.
You know when you're driving down the road and you see all these signs for subdivision this way, subdivision that way, political desk, political lamp.
Yeah, I have no idea what happened to those signs.
In Georgia, it's illegal to have those signs up on the road.
So what me and a couple of my buddies did as soon as we got our drivers licenses, we would go, they would only set them up on the weekends.
And so we'd run down when the people are coming around working for them.
Yeah, usually Friday nights more around 12 to a clock in the morning.
So anyways, Saturday afternoon, me and a couple of my buddies, we just drive down the highways and pick up all these signs and take all the free wood.
Oh, yours were on wood. Nowadays they're going a lot cheaper. They have a stainless steel.
Well, they have the signs of corrugated plastic similar to your corrugated cardboard.
And through the corrugation they'll stick these little H shaped steel pieces, three pieces of steel two legs and a cross beam.
Into the corrugation so that they can just push it right down into the ground. No problem. They don't need to use the wood.
Nice, free metal to recycle.
That's exactly it. And the price is still as negligible, but in bulk, it really adds up.
I think it's funny in this, in this area, the homeless will take these signs too.
And they have this nice area right on the back of them that's just keen for writing something on.
I'm not sure why that nobody seems to have gotten the idea of actually putting something on both sides of the sign to avoid this.
You only see it one way when you're driving by.
See, that just doesn't make any sense because you can see the other side of the road.
You can put them in the middle of the road, not that I want to give them any ideas.
It's more expensive to print them on both sides.
That may be, but it might avoid them getting pulled up by homeless people to be used as signs.
Are you calling Cobra to homeless because you used to go steal signs?
No, no, I'm calling the people that pulled them up and right on them homeless.
I didn't tell signs. I picked up litter.
Yes, he was picking litter. I perfectly agree with that. You know, you're picking litter off the side of the road.
You know, somebody leads to this great sofa out on the curb. I'm just picking up litter.
I even locked it with my litter. I even locked the hours as my community service for my anger management.
And on behalf of it's also self-serving because somebody else will be rather angry later on.
What exactly are on these signs?
It's mostly just advertising.
Usually just small advertisements for like subdivisions where I'm from.
So they'll put one up, homes in the 200s, homes in the 300s.
You'll also around here find we buy houses and they will buy houses for extraordinarily low prices.
They'll buy cars for extraordinarily low prices. They'll sell you cable internet and phone service that the cable internet and phone companies don't seem to know anything about.
During the political seasons, they will put out political signs saying vote for such and such.
And some of these name combinations, I'm guessing that they're trying to gain notoriety for being as dirty as possible without saying it because some of them bring some really interesting thoughts to mind.
I'm going to need some fossils of those.
Or I've seen some of them.
There are also dumpsters around here that are marked for donations of clothing and shoes to various non-profit supposedly organizations.
And I came across one they usually say clothing and shoes.
Well, this one said clothing and hose.
Up for the record evidently somebody had had fun and wiped off the ass.
Here for elections and stuff, they're only allowed to put posters up on pre-assemble billboards.
And that's just to some degree that's what these are pre-assemble billboards.
Technically, you're only allowed to put them up in your yard or in certain other areas.
I think there are restrictions on businesses having them technically, but I'm not sure I think it might depend on state to state on that one.
I mean as they town hall will put up a something like five meter by five meter wooden billboard out the roundabouts.
So there will only be about ten of them in town.
And then the political panorists will are only allowed to put the posters up there.
Well, that sounds like a lot of fun.
And I could think of some really interesting things to do when it comes to the pirate party for that.
They're on there as well.
Yeah, I don't know if any of you have been to Texas Linux Vast.
Well, I wouldn't imagine you.
You're too busy with kids, right?
I'm going to be ocean in the middle of the middle.
See now the freeze you can walk on water.
What is a widow?
This is a little stuff.
It's a curial vegetable.
It's for disabling sleep states on Western digital drives.
That's what it is.
That's a widow.
At any rate, Texas Linux Vast had somebody from the German pirate party and a few people from the new Texas pirate party starting up.
And we had a lot of fun discussing all of the various ways that we could go about influencing politics.
Doing like this.
Well, oddly enough, as it happens, we know we're not going to get invited to debates.
On the other hand, the debates aren't really worth anything.
And frankly, we will invite them to ours.
On the other hand, the invitation will have it at the bottom.
If you don't show up, you will be represented by a soundboard and a sock puppet.
I'll be appropriate that sock puppet.
Especially in Texas.
I'll tell you.
And so, if they don't want to show up to our debates, I'm perfectly fine with that.
We have a soundboard.
Thank you, Lexus Nexus, of everything they have ever said in public speaking.
And oddly enough, they can save some of the most awful things.
So, Senator, what do you think about rape in public schools?
Well, I fully support that.
The thing is, he said it.
And, of course, it may not make it on the public media.
And tell it gets on to YouTube and Vimeo.
And eventually gets enough viewers that the local public media sees something bleeding and decides to look at it.
The thing is, we don't need to get to their debates.
We can make better news.
It's interesting the political makeup here.
There are like hundreds of political parties.
Over here, there are particularly only a few.
Yeah, there are two.
Well, no.
In the US, there's really one political party overall called the Republic Rats.
And it's really just one overall party that masquerades is, too.
It is sad, but some people believe it.
No, that's just fair enough.
I would be interested in hearing how the political situation is done in particular across countries.
I've heard it's not much better in, you know, say, Germany.
We're similar being countries.
But I'd like to have the people in those countries just have a non-partisan breakdown on how the government actually works without getting political about it.
Yeah.
This is how it's supposed to work.
Wow, that's really more when it comes down to how it's supposed to work.
Yeah, I suppose that there is an opportunity at least for a...
While I was pondering the idea of like a global government kind of fuel...
appeared to pure global internet fuels government, but that's...
I'm not sure how far that will go.
Well, at the moment, we already have our currency.
I think Dogecoin is what, 17th on the digital currencies?
So, how many digital currencies have we already got for that world government?
It's not Doge, it's Doge.
It's a Dogecoin.
Dogecoin?
Yes.
It doesn't do well on the internet.
Nobody told me it's Doge.
That's why you see the picture of a dog and all of the stuff like that.
It was a Dogecoin.
It was a meme that started off as a joke about how many different virtual currencies there are.
So, somebody went ahead and took the Bitcoin software,
and actually set up another coin software.
Or a Litecoin software.
Okay.
And set up another coin.
They called Dogecoin, D-O-G-E-C-O-I-N.
And they used pictures of a dog to advertise and everything.
And it came out right before one of the big upticks on Bitcoin.
So people started investing in Dogecoin as well.
And it's shot up.
And now it's in 17th place last I heard.
A Litecoin is actually still in 2nd place.
As usual.
It's quite a bit.
It has gone up quite a bit in its time though.
Oh yeah.
I wonder if they had picked Cascoyne how popular it would be now.
You don't know.
It may be out there.
There's 60 something different currencies.
There's 70 something different virtual currencies out there.
So we definitely have our currency of choice or non-choice.
Yeah.
I call Dogecoin the biggest joke ever.
And then I think it's a scam too.
When that thing crashes, I mean, basically whoever started it
is going to buy out everything they can and run.
Or you know, you have to admit the dollars last with a lot longer.
And frankly, it's as much of a joke right now.
Well, it's been as much of a joke for years.
But that's not the point.
The point is I think Dogecoin is just basically a scam.
It started as a joke.
Was it a scam?
How?
Basically.
It's not designed to deceive you.
It's designed as a complete joke.
You'd be a moron if it was a scam.
Well, but it's actually falling for falling for it.
Yes, but people have actually put it on exchanges.
And they're actually going people to exchange fiat into it.
And the originators still hold the majority of it.
So when they figure out the joke is pretty much up,
they'll basically sell off their coin, transfer the money out,
and let the whole thing crash.
There's no exchange that will exchange it for fiat.
That's the thing.
It's so completely worthless at this point.
It would have to get up to at least the level of a different coin.
Oh, so does it crash again?
I guess it has.
No, it's not all that high.
I mean, sitting at seven in place, you have to admit that that's high in terms of how many are out there.
But it's not all that high in terms of something like Bitcoin, which I think
I think it was.
It's like 700 740 less.
I looked, but I thought doggy clean was treating it.
Yeah, see it jumped up.
How high did it get here?
Two cents.
Oh, no, no, no.
What's higher than that?
No, no, no, no.
I'm saying it got much higher.
It shot up over 900% in value for a while.
Yeah, but most of these systems are putting the ruple to shame in how low they can go.
Was the whole point of Bitcoin that it wasn't supposed to be a speculative currency?
No, no, the whole point of Bitcoin is that it could be exchanged, that it could be a fiat currency,
that while it can be speculated, it's not nearly as much of an issue.
And for that matter, it can be exchanged as easily as somebody on the internet,
relatively anonymously, even though it can be packed, of course, there are ways around that.
Whitecoin was the one where it can't be speculated as well.
And the way it's made, it has a proof of effort rather than a proof of work.
No, it's a proof of work.
Yeah, I forget.
I'd have to look it up again.
Can somebody do a show on those?
I was in the version of the different hash function.
Whitecoin uses more memory, Bitcoin uses more processor.
Well, and also there's a number of other things.
There's more actual coins in Litecoin.
Was it the kept at 50 or 60,000 or 60 million coins instead of the 25 million that Bitcoin has?
By the way, this is how open source works.
It's really an open source currency.
And as long as somebody attributes value to it, as long as somebody will exchange it,
that means it is a working fiat currency by definition.
Well, actually I love arbitrage, arbitrage, arbitrating from one currency to another makes me money.
Okay, so the thing about Bitcoin in general is it makes no difference whether we treat it as a currency or not.
The underlying technology is the most incredibly important thing about it.
And that is this is the first time we have actually seen an implementation of a true ledger system that is not reversible.
That's the single most key and critical point to Bitcoin and all of these cryptocurrencies.
That technology and especially the protocol that is built around it is going to survive whether or not the currency actually stays up or goes away.
Now keep in mind there are also people doing other things with it, for example, using some people are signing documents with Bitcoin transactions.
The idea being that even if it's an absolute fraction of a Bitcoin, the ledger system will be current.
The ledger system will continue through things like that where we need digital signing that really does mean something more than entering in for digits.
Well, and the other thing is I like the idea that name coin has come up with.
And that is the idea is that you can actually try, you can actually tie an asset to a virtual currency transaction.
So in their case, they actually are linking it to DNS right now.
So you go to buy domain.
But when you go to buy that domain in the DNS registry, the transaction is actually tied to that.
So you have ownership of that as long as you have the ownership over that transaction which you will because the ledger guarantees it.
Is it easy to verify that stuff though?
All of it's public.
Yeah, right.
Right, it's public.
And all of the crypto systems are public.
But is it actually more so?
You don't reveal the clarity of the ledger.
Is it trivial for fucking John, no?
To go and verify it.
No, but evidently it was trivial for the FBI to verify it when they did.
Oh, okay, that's not trivial.
That's the FBI.
And it's not supposed to be trivial.
The whole point is that it's encrypted.
But here's the point.
So the only way is it can be proven that you actually own something is by the fact that you have your key for it.
And so that means you know that the math doesn't work out.
I really agree that the math works out.
I'm saying, is it trivial today for someone to take Bitcoin software given that they have their key and then be able to sign something again verifying like someone send you a token,
you sign it to verify that you actually do own that asset.
Is that easy for someone who's just arbitrarily downloading the Bitcoin software?
I know I get that you could implement it.
I get that you could implement it with this technology.
And that's the thing is that it can be implemented.
It's not say a series of pages where you have an entire group of people with a second set of books.
You everybody on the entire network for most of these points to go through has to download the entire book, the entire transaction history.
Well, that's going away to they're working on changing that to make sure you don't actually have to go ahead and download the whole ledger.
But no, I mean, the way that it's verified is when a transaction is made, yes, everything gets signed automatically.
I mean, that's actually part of the transaction is that as the coin or the token or the transaction occurs, is that moves into your account?
Yes, that transaction is signed for your account and yes, that is yours at that point.
And the only way somebody can get it is if they can get into your wallet and take it.
Okay, why did I get that?
That's been established.
Well, that's what you asked was if you know what?
No, I asked if it's easy for someone to do it today, not if it's feasible.
It's obviously feasible.
Well, no, it's not necessarily easy for an individual.
Well, it no way it depends.
I mean, okay, so if you can download and install the software, yes and no, the only the complicating factor is how you actually get your coins.
And it's not really a problem of the coin system itself.
It's more of a problem of either A, you have to mind to get the coins or B, you actually have to trade Fiat currency to buy coins.
And the bigger problem is right now is moving Fiat currency in so you can actually buy coins.
And until we get that settled, that could be a bit more of an issue.
Now, similar with the encryption line, you also have a domain system of sorts with the toward network.
Another thing that needs to end up getting on a show.
Oh, speaking of, we actually just missed a new time zone here.
So we wouldn't need to stop and say happy new year to the Marquesis Islands, France, Tai, Taiyaha, Taihei.
And then we also want to have a little reminder here about the accessible computing foundations, fundraisers to improve the orchestra software.
Please visit their website and please visit the website for the fundraiser at HTTP colon slash IGG dot me slash AT slash orca.
They are trying to improve the orchestra software to make it the best software available for visually impaired people to access Linux computer systems.
Only you can help this child here the internet.
So did I actually understand your question well enough at that point did I actually answer it or I mean I guess maybe you were kind of vague on what you were asking is at least from what I heard.
It was kind of an open ended question I thought shouldn't be open ended it's I mean is the software at a current state where any person can actually validate.
You know specific resource given a key because I mean that's okay we get that the crypto works.
Right, but you don't verify transactions that aren't yours.
You don't do any of that you don't actually go out and verify this.
No, you can't because to verify that transaction you have to have somebody else's key.
No, you're missing any transaction that goes to somebody else.
Here's the other problem thing is that the the hashes that are used in the ledger are order dependent.
So if you want to validate a transaction you actually have to validate the transactions that came before it and transactions that came after it that's part of the thing about that.
So how you could actually jump in grab any random transaction and validate it when you don't have if you don't have the key and you don't have the order for the transactions becomes a lot more complicated.
Is anybody else getting dead air?
It is dead now because I guess William didn't want to answer anymore or ask any other questions unless he does.
All right, well moving right on with when it comes to things like encryption and keys being used similarly as anybody else had experience with the tour network.
Oh, you must mean the Silk Road.
No, I mean the tour network.
You mean that's not the Silk Road?
Oh, come on, you can access the Silk Road from not being on tour, which is actually kind of funny when you think about it.
The thing is the domain names, the dot onion addresses that are assigned on tour are also assigned with a type of encryption.
The basic idea being that the domains themselves depend on you having the key for that specific domain.
So the domain itself is a function of the key that you have that links to it.
So I get distracted there for a second. What was the question or the statement?
I simply stating the encryption system that's used on tour is such that for the hidden services the domain systems use the dot onion addresses are linked to a private key that you possess that has a hash function that outputs the domain and you have to possess the key to output that hash function to maintain your status with a domain on the onion network.
Yes, okay.
Yeah, I didn't see a point of discussion.
I didn't see a point of discussion there either.
Cool.
No, I was just planning that was to a very verification system.
So I have my breakfast here ready to rock.
How are you all the fading away?
What are you eating?
Same as every day.
Pop is porridge.
I'm about to go start a pot of coffee and maybe grab something to eat for breakfast.
We'll do that.
I'm tempted to go read the refrigerator.
I know I still have fries left.
While you're doing that, I'll give some people listening to some stats about what's going on in the back out.
Currently there are 28 people listening to the live stream.
We have had approximately about max 70, 65 coming up to 70 people listening to the live stream.
We have a capacity of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, a thousand simultaneous connections.
So we never stressed out our service of all during this.
It's important to remember that those 90 people were probably various different 90 people over a period of time.
You know, I just had an awful idea for an ad for the sonar project.
Go ahead.
Just, you know, have an audio ad.
Do you see this girl?
Well, she can't see you either.
She can't see the internet either.
Because all of these large companies are making it harder for her to ever see the beauty of the internet.
Help this blind girl see more of the world.
Or some similar save the children garbage.
I still love all that save the children stuff anyway.
You know, you have this woman sitting there in a three-piece suit on a tire asking you to feed this child.
Yeah, I have lots of comments about that, but I'm not going to go there.
We've been going for 23 hours, 41 minutes, and we have another two hours, 18 minutes to go.
There's been some quite interesting stuff going on with regards to charities in Ireland as well.
It's a very topical thing at the moment.
Well, that's only when you're actually required or when they're actually required by say the Federal Trade Commission to release stats that you find out that 20% of the money actually ends up going to some of these aid organizations that are actually providing the services in some of these countries.
It's very important to do your research on exactly where the aid is going and who it's going to.
I know my parents have stopped donating to those causes and directly donating to a guy who is running an orphanage in a particular place and the whole neighborhood basically.
Donates this guy comes home once a year, he goes back with basically envelopes full of cash.
You know, he makes every penny kind of stuff.
And even there you find people who are doing that and scamming with that very spiel.
Indeed, where there's money, but in this case, I would know for sure that this guy is a genuine, genuine article.
As long as you can have the people properly vetted, but unfortunately, many people just want that warm and cozy feeling that they're helping in the world without any kind of vetting.
Whereas I know by coming on HPR by contributing to various projects, I know I'm helping as much as I possibly can.
Oh, there you're wrong. HPR is a get rich pyramid scheme.
Oh, I thought it was the get rich quicks and developed by Jesus. I forgot his name now.
Yeah, that's where your annual contributions to HPR goes to 400 $400 membership fees per year.
Stankdog, that's what I was thinking.
I very much doubt that it was costing Stank a lot of money every once to keep HPR going.
Well, nobody ever said his get rich quick scheme had to work.
I mean, it is stank after all.
It gets a get poor quick scheme by the summer.
Well, and I know everybody was talking about Torrance.
I think last time that he was discussed with him about that, his main thing was we have the bandwidth just use it.
But I think the big thing that was disregarded on that was the idea that not everybody else has the bandwidth and the wherewithal to download all of the episodes like that.
Yeah, no, the whole discussion about the Torrance thing is more from, I mean, we now have the download options page, which has got Torrance links in thanks to Duke Geek and all the team over there.
It was never a thing that we don't like Torrance.
It's a fact that we didn't, I don't think we provided a good way to cleanly on one page, get all the previous episodes.
But I don't know how torrenting is going to, if somebody has low bandwidth caps, I don't know how torrenting is going to help without those.
It's not so you're still pulling the same amount of stuff in your pipe.
It's not necessarily the low bandwidth so much as the stable bandwidth.
So while you might have connections dropping all the time, when you're looking at BitTorrent, it's maintaining very short connection times between various peers.
It can re-establish the connection times in sequence and re-download parts that download badly.
Yeah, but you can do the same with the WGET and the dash partial.
We'll download the bottom part of the page or any download manager.
Yes, see, yeah.
On the other hand, it doesn't work as well over certain connections.
Sometimes UTP works where TCP doesn't.
Yeah, but BitTorrent is not casual on the internet and that's where I am, the problem.
This is me personally.
This is Ken.
I do agree.
Technology we're using here.
And if the whole internet is based on HTTP technology, and we can pull episodes down, then if there's anybody else, you know, it's going to be on the cache server via Akmire somewhere somewhere.
What do you mean?
It's your ISP measure.
Then the next person will have it.
You could technically set up some sort of caching with BitTorrent, assuming it's one of those non encrypted types.
So that the cache server could actually see the traffic and say, oh, hey, this guy is requesting a block.
I'm just going to send him back the block I already cached for that specific thing, because it does send out the hash and stuff of the block.
Yeah, yeah.
You could.
It is a rather open protocol.
You just don't think it's a very popular thing, so no one's created the cache for it.
It just doesn't seem like a popular idea for most people.
No, the BitTorrent itself, the company BitTorrent contacted.
It's working as a mobilized to provide their own names.
They contacted us about using BitTorrent on their network.
They had modifications in it so that they would try and get seeds and fears from the local network with priority over going out to external network.
So it was region and network the way.
What I'd like to see on BitTorrent and the BitTorrent protocol when it comes to stuff like HPR and similar would be an allowance for HTTP peers.
Literally a link that everybody would have so that it would download from that HTTP peer and also download parts of it from everybody else.
Oh, I see.
You could start the seed off by using a server instead of having to push it up on some really crappy upstream connection.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that way you could have a server based system, even if it's on a shared server somewhere that would initially push it off.
And frankly, that would allow you to keep it available for longer than you would otherwise because it's simply maintaining an HTTP link file.
But there is that support for within the magnet link.
You can specify a HTTP location and you can specify how trustworthy that is.
If that's the primary source, that is supported pretty good.
Are you talking about serving up the HPR torrents?
Yeah.
We kind of got on to that.
And then the, you know, my personal preference for HTTP downloads for the cache ability of it.
And then there was this question about whether you could point to a web server as part of the download.
And when I was reading up a magnet, how magnets are structured.
And there is a field in there that will allow you, will allow the browser to.
Point to a source of truth or they.
Let me just get the correct terminology for a second to point to a source, a HTTP source as well.
I was going to suggest one of the things that the internet archive now has is the ability to actually serve up over.
Yeah, over a bit torn.
They actually make that available now.
And we're one of the things that's on our list is automation.
They, as part of the automation, make your show notes work thing.
And the other end of that is also feeding directly in Tarkov.org.
We have our own page up there on archive.org.
That's technical review, I think.
And we want to get all the episodes up there as well.
And that's how we want the track files so that we can put them up there directly.
So that seems like it maybe it may even kill two words of one stone.
If you can get your stuff up on there and then get a link to it to a bit torrent through internet archive.
Then then all would be a matter of this back in script actually linked the two together.
And that's not a problem.
It would also be nice to have it set up so that you could say download all of the episodes on BitTorrent from one author or of a specific series.
Yeah, that would be cool.
I am not volunteering to implement this.
No, that's fine.
You can now, as part of the site redesigns, by the way, was I have a lot of ideas for how we can improve other pages.
It's like the site redesign facilitates that and then makes it a little bit simpler.
And then makes it easier to add to the menus and stuff.
One of the things I want to do for the host pages and the series pages is put in the magic link to get the RSS feed.
You know, our RSS feed accepts various different parameters that allow you to specify a series, a host, a number of episodes, all the episodes, explicit tag, not explicit tag, that sort of thing.
And I want to make that kind of public on the host pages and on the series page.
And we missed, oh no, in seven minutes we have the next time.
I can. What would our RSS feed for each of the individual hosts?
How would that be useful?
Because say you're a big fan and this is an actual use case.
The person requested this.
They want to get all tattoo shows from the bad apples and various different places.
Because sometimes tattoo puts a show up on the bad apples or the new world order.
And sometimes puts them up on which we are.
And sometimes he gets himself very good.
So people want to make sure that they have all tattoos shows.
So they subscribe to tattoos feed on which we are.
And the bad apples.
And then there's a tattoo.
And it will be useful to walk around with you.
Yeah, or I can see that you also the use case would be like for a hookah's stuff for all his labor off his things where.
You also want to get all of his stuff because he's done a lot of really good episodes there.
Yeah, they would definitely fall under a series.
Anyway, so you pull down that entire series and you just subscribe to that series.
And for example, a Linux in the shell.
No pressure down pressure.
While he makes his own feeds over on Linux in the shell, there would be no need for you to do that.
You could you could use your you could start a sub series.
For example, I want to do a how Holland works series on HBR.
And just post one of my shows on HBR and then on my own blog.
Or wherever you register how Holland works.com.
And then have the entries in there.
Have the RSS feed pointing back to the HBR feed.
Have they have all the absolute points back to HBR.
And of course you can do that because now you can pick a days in the future when he shows commotion.
You can just nicely coordinate everything to make sure it all works.
So many.
Yeah, I guess my point with hookah as an example is because of his Libra office stuff.
I'd be much more interested in hearing other episodes from him.
Not just not just the stuff that's in the series.
So you know, that way I could get all of his stuff.
Yeah, absolutely.
Is there going to be a limit as to how far back the RSS feed will go to pull episodes like say a couple of years from now.
How many episodes it's glad you're going to have.
They they did a PHP page allows you to specify the number of episodes that you go back other full or 10 or 20 or whatever.
But if you put in full, if you pull them all down.
I mean, we have 62 gigs of stuff here folks.
We're not we're not a creative family.
And that's just on MP3, you know, on the encoded stuff.
We have a lot more on the live files and stuff which we're putting up.
We're not having to put them into the other.
You know, there's the build for that.
But I can't imagine you even I can't imagine that there would be a need to download, you know, the source files, the source one.
But if you want to do that, that's fine.
There's a reason for doing that on archive.org is that as time goes on and they you codex come out.
They can automatically reencode from the best quality audio that we have available to us.
So that makes sense.
On more than that, you look at remix culture.
When you look at wave files, you're better off having the wave files for remixes and similar.
If you want to take somebody's voice or since we're talking about a lot of the stuff where it comes to blind users.
You could take all of the episodes done by a single person and implement that into a voice system based on that person's voice.
And should you find their accent, particularly pleasing, that might be a way to go.
You would need to do the audio transcripts and all of what they're saying.
You would need to, as they're talking, you would need to translate.
So let's take that too, for an example, if you count that you voice a feeling you would need to follow along with him and write exactly all the words down.
So that's something like a very voice thing.
Sorry, scrolling back and showing off your differently.
I'm Mary T.S.
Yes, Mary T.S.
Oasis would be able to understand that and process it.
I understand that, but my point is we don't know what somebody's going to want to do.
But that's the point.
We leave the source there because we don't know what somebody's going to want to do.
Who would have thought 20 years ago that we'd be having remixed or who would have thought, you know, 50 years ago.
Maybe that we'd be having music mixed with other people's music to make new music or any number of other things that could have just happened.
People have been doing that for millennia.
Two minutes.
Time to go.
At the end of that.
I mean, just with the source material here, you could make a really interesting show with just recordings of just the show we've done here today.
Yeah.
Yeah, maybe we should edit this.
Yeah, the source files for this will be quite significant.
Yeah, we're up to like almost six gig from from me so far.
Are you on saving on my phones?
I've gotten saved on my local drive.
I can put them someplace when we get done.
Do not delete them until you've heard the episodes posted.
And even then, don't delete them until you listen to the episodes after they're posted.
Yeah, no, I won't be deleting them for any time to come here.
I'm afraid I'm very afraid.
Five, four, three, two, one.
And we would like to wish a happy new year to another small region of the US.
Honolulu, you may have heard of that one before.
Rera Tonga, Adak, Pepit.
And also while we were at it, we would like to remind people to visit the accessible computing foundations.
Fundraiser to improve the Orca software.
The web address for their Indiegogo.
Fundraiser is HTTP colon slash slash IGG dot me slash at slash orca.
And 51 50 also.
Assist to mention the archive dot org.
Fundraiser project archive dot org.
Session.
Dreser or session.
And Cobra 2 is requesting that Ken Fallon put his mic closer to his mouth.
Yes, can your ear levels are quite a bit low?
Didn't want to say anything.
Please do, please do, please do.
That's the plan.
And we also want to sync our recordings again.
At least once.
I'm at a break.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
Hacker Public Radio does our work.
We are a community podcast network.
The release is shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dot pound and the infonomicum computer cloud.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are proudly sponsored by Lina Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinaPages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
