Episode: 1135
Title: HPR1135: TGTM Newscast for 12/01/2012
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1135/hpr1135.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 19:37:51

---

Hey everybody, this is Poki from Hacker Polic Radio.
We're putting on another party like the New Year's Eve party we had last year.
If you have a computer and you can get mumble working on it, we want you to join us on New
Year's Eve.
When is the party going to be?
It's going to be all day.
It's a 24 hour party, so you have plenty of time to call in and participate.
If you're a podcaster, if you're a podcast listener, come and join us because this is our
thing.
This is our party we're getting together and we're doing it live.
We're going to stream it live and we're going to re-broadcast the recording later in
the show.
Any information is all available at hackerpublicradio.org.
Please come along and join us on New Year's Eve.
You're listening to Tokikumi News, number 83, recorded for Saturday, December 1, 2012.
You're listening to the Tech Only Hacker Public Radio Edition to get the full podcast,
including political, commentary, and other controversial topics.
Please visit www.tokikumi.us.
Here are the vials statistics for this program.
Your feedback matters to me.
Please send your comments to dgatdeepgeek.us.
The webpage for this program is www.tokikumi.us.
You can subscribe to me on Identica as the user name DeepGeek or you could follow me
on Twitter.
My username there is DGTGM as in DeepGeek Tokikumi.
Hello, you may have noticed that last week Tokikumi News, TGGM News, had a guest reader,
Poki from the hacker public radio community.
Of course, I'm just thrilled to welcome his assistance he promised to record once a month
all I have to do is write the dog thing.
I'm very grateful that the community stood up and decided not to let my humble project
falter.
I'm very proud to try to put out 36 newscasts per year or three per month.
So hopefully this new partnership will be very fruitful and beneficial all around.
So far I love it and let's wish it continued success in the future.
Now the tech round up.
From eff.org in November 29th, 2012 by Mark M. Jake Hox and Rainey Wrightman.
Attempt to modernize digital privacy law passes the Senate Judiciary Committee.
AppKa reform moves forward to require a warrant for your email, a amendment to weakened
video piracy protections reigned in.
By today, the Senate Judiciary Committee passed a bill that would require the government
to get a warrant before accessing private electronic communications like emails and Facebook
messages.
The bill could now proceed to the Senate floor for a vote.
The package that passed out of committee included an amendment championed by Senator
Patrick Leehee that would mandate that the government receive a probable cause warrant
before accessing private electronic communications.
This would close a dangerous loophole in the 1986 Electronic Communications Privacy
Act, which the Department of Justice has argued allows them to access private emails that
are more than 180 days old without a warrant.
This runs contrary to the privacy users expect in their digital communications as well as
a fourth amendment as the Washington Post said in an editorial yesterday.
If you left a letter on your desk for 180 days, you wouldn't imagine that the police could
then swoop in and read it without your permission or judges.
According to Lee Tien, EFF, senior staff attorney, with this amendment, Congress is sending
a strong message to the Department of Justice that our digital fourth amendment rights don't
expire after six months.
While there's still much work ahead of us to ensure that these common-sense legal protections
are enshrined in statutory law, today we saw the Senate Judiciary Committee hauling our
K-Claw into alignment with modern technology.
The bill would also amend the strong Video Privacy Protection Act, the VPPA, allowing companies
like Netflix to get blanket consent from consumers before continuously sharing their video,
watching habits with social media accounts, or even data brokers.
While EFF thinks updating the VPPA is unnecessary and potentially harmful for consumers, we
are pleased to see Senator Diane Feinstein and Al Frank and successfully co-sponsored an
amendment that limited the duration of this blanket consent, ensuring that video service
providers have to get consent from consumers once every two years.
We hope others and Congress will share our commitment to safeguarding the privacy rights
of internet users.
To read the rest of the story, follow links in the show notes.
Havana Times.org dated November 28, 2012.
Cuba government creates biotech pharmaceutical conglomerate.
Havana Times, the Cuban government, has approved the creation of a business group that will
bring together 38 state companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries
to fields on which Raul Castro government is placing much hope.
The bio-cuba pharma group joins under one roof all those institutions belong to Polo
Scientific Hope, Scientific Complex, and Quim Efe business group explained the official
grandma newspaper.
The measure which was approved by the Council of Ministers comes out of the hope for a
new industrial conglomerate to boost the quote, Generation of Explorable Goods and Services
Unquote.
The newspaper reported its operation is governed by business principles it added.
The medical and scientific sectors are historically two of the main stakes of the Cuban government.
For decades, former President Fidel Castro promoted the development of the island's healthcare
and scientific systems.
Cuba has also been trying for a number of years to increase its income from medical services
provided aboard form biotechnology production.
Since coming to power in 2006, Raul Castro has launched several market reforms to update
the Cuban economic model.
Along these, it's a restructuring of industries under business principles for decades is for
controlled by the state bureaucracy.
In 2011, Raul Castro announced the demise of the iconic ministry of sugar in order to
create a business group capable of resurrecting sugar industry, one of the oldest major industries
on the island.
The April 2011 sixth Congress of the Communist Party of Cuba institutionalized this reform
process with guidelines that employ emulate economic adjustment models without political
changes such as those implemented by China and Vietnam in past decades.
Wire.com had an article about a student suspended for refusing to wear a school issued RFID
tracker.
While the terms of service of Wire.com to not allow or are in conflict with our creative
common basis for this newscast, the commentary on the article by Thomas Commandman Gideon
of the command line podcast is not.
Therefore, we will link to the original article on show notes, but have instead Mr. Gideon's
excellent commentary.
Enjoy.
David Kravitz, writing for Wire's threat level, had details of a story again that in
this past week, a couple of other sources picked up on.
A student in Texas was suspended for refusing to wear an ID badge, a school ID badge that had
a radio frequency identifier tag or an RFID or RFID tag in it.
She cited both privacy and religious reasons, but it sounds like more of the latter in reading
the details of what Kravitz has put together and perhaps only the former in service of the
latter the religious centrist.
Later in the article, Kravitz quotes the family as identifying the badges as the mark
of the beast from the book of revelations.
I had dearly hoped this was a student more directly inspired by something like Corey
Doctorow's little brother that, in a case of predicting the present, posits an environment
that sounds actually quite a bit like what was at play here in this Texas school.
Kravitz lists several other schools that have tried or are using similar tracking text
so this is not new in the first instance.
In most cases, the desire to do so is based on funding being based in part on student
attendance.
Before using badges and RFIDs, this relied on physical presence during roll call during
home reading.
You may remember that, I certainly do.
Now, with more sophisticated technologies, the school can know if a student is present
whether they are at a particular place at a particular time.
I'm not entirely unsympathetic to the school's position here.
Interestingly, any number of students may be involved with activities that pull them
away from home room.
In many cases, those activities would actually be strongly associated with successful students
like clubs, sports, or student government and shouldn't cause schools to be penalized
for encouraging those additional activities that speak so well of students drive motivation
and ultimate success.
I don't want to feed into demonizing RFID either, which is a legitimate, multiple-use
technology, like many others of which I am an unreserved fan, like Wi-Fi or, well,
the personal computer.
The fact that the students, as a sense, are represented as barcodes on the badge and
that undoubtedly the RFIDs are non-secure and open to any self-built reader, that's
more concerning.
And those are, I think, fixable things and fixable in the sense that not just in the specific
implementation, but in the drivers to make sure that those using this technology are
using it correctly and using it well.
By way of example, I unavoidably possess a US passport that has an RFID in it.
I just had to renew it too late before the option to have one without was concluded was
no longer available.
When it actually works at self-service kiosks, which it doesn't always, and more reliably
at foreign customs and border checks, I'm a fan of how it makes an otherwise slow and
burdensome process, relatively pain-free, more so than with a paper checks or having
to use other identifiers.
I can, however, act to protect my privacy outside of it being actively checked.
That's something that I don't think the passport as delivered is a good job of.
My passport, my personal passport, is an in-sconced in a radio blocking wallet when I'm
not asked to present it for valid reasons.
I wonder if this student or any others could make a case for doing something similar, I suspect
not.
As long as the automated role system still shows a more accurate count than the manual process,
though, I can't see on what basis school administrators would object other than just a
performance.
Even if this student isn't a nascent privacy advocate, the idea of rolling the system
out to all 110 schools in the district is much more likely to catch out such early activist
and hackers with the kinds of questions that I think they should be asking.
At least in this instance, a judge hearing the family's complaint has blocked the suspension
in order to allow the situation to be investigated more thoroughly.
Kids are clever.
Far more than I think we often give them credit.
If the school doesn't find a better balance in using this technology for its ends, which
I've admitted, I think, are too degree valid, but at the same time, respecting the wishes
and desires of the students, then the sort of evasion techniques really offered in little
brother, and at most, one web search away for those that haven't read this young adult
novel, will be deployed.
Have no doubt.
Breaking the system, rather than understanding reactions and working with them, will just
make the situation worse and in the extreme case, lead to a clueless, ratcheting up that
serves no one's agenda.
From torrentfreak.com, date November 28, 2012, by Ernesto, TV Shaq Edmund, Richard O'Dryer
will not be extra to the United States.
Richard O'Dryer, the UK-based ex-administrator of the video linking website TV Shaq, will
not be extra to the U.S. to face copyright infringement charges.
After a long and hard battle, spearhead by his mother and support by Wikipedia found
Jimmy Wales, O'Dryer struck a deal with the U.S. government, instead of being extra
died, the student has signed a deferred prosecution agreement, which means that he keeps his freedom
in exchange for paying compensation to the copyright holders.
To read the RIS's article, follow links in the show notes.
From techdirt.com, by Mike Masnick, dated November 28, 2012, six strikes delayed until early
part of 2013.
We heard rumors of this a couple of weeks ago from people involved in some of the six
strikes program at various ISPs, but the strikes effort already delayed from its original
planned starting date of July until around now has been pushed back again until the early
part of 2013.
The Center for Copyright Information, which is administering the program, claims that
it's due to the unexpected factors largely stemming from Hurricane Sandy, but we've heard
that's mainly an excuse for some other problems that meant the plan was simply not ready
for prime time.
Either way, the program will certainly begin at some point, that which point ISPs and the
entertainment industry will proceed to piss off some of their best customers for no
good reason.
Can't see how it's going to increase sales, but I guess all those MPA lawyers who have
anti-piracy in their titles have to feel like they're contributing something to justify
their salaries.
Other headlines in the news to read these stories, follow links in the show notes.
BitTorrent Site Owners Fear European Domain Name Seizures.
Yes, they're going to have test cases to adopt the American system, a wonderful system
of economy that most people in the know really call fascism.
The marriage between state and corporation.
News from TechDirt.com and these times.com have had times that org and org of.com used
under a range permission.
Or you clip from the command line that net used under permission of the creative commons
by attribution share-like license.
News from torrentfreak.com and eff.org used under permission of the creative commons
by attribution license.
News from wlcentral.org and democracy now.org used under permission of the creative
commons by attribution, non-commercial, no driver's license.
News sources retain the respective copyrights.
Thank you for listening to this episode of Talk Geek To Me.
Here are the vials statistics for this program.
Your feedback matters to me, please send your comments to dg at deepgeek.us.
The web page for this program is at www.talkgeektoMe.us.
You can subscribe to me on identical as the username deepgeek.
Or you could follow me on Twitter.
My username there is dggtm as in deepgeek talk geek to me.
This episode of Talk Geek To Me is licensed under the creative commons attribution share-like
3.0 on port license.
This license allows commercial reuse of the work as well as allowing you to modify the
work as long as you share alike the same rights you have received under this license.
Thank you for listening to this episode of Talk Geek To Me.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on day through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicom Computer
Club.
HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are crowd-responsive
by LUNA pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LUNA pages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons, attribution, share
