Episode: 1025
Title: HPR1025: Infonomicon Episode #51
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1025/hpr1025.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 17:35:55

---

Hey, all you sexy geeks out in Infonomic and Land, this is Infonomic and Radio Episode
51.
Hey, I have a hobby and I want my friends to pay for it.
So before listening to my podcast, you're going to have to listen to a few words from
our sponsors.
Having sponsors is great.
It keeps me from having to pay for bandwidth and it also has the added bonus as it keeps
my hobby from being a true expression of me.
And it makes it more of a job.
This is fun.
Hey, have you ever wanted to insert generic dream?
Well, that's great because with insert generic product, you can be on your way to insert
generic destination with all the insert generic gender checking you out with your new
insert generic product.
Go click on over to insert generic web destination and start living insert generic day.
Info, motherfucking, ass-tastic, Namakon, Radio!
Hey, it is Info and you guys are nom, new icons.
This is Pixel TV.
Let's listen to them, Roman subscribe,con OK?
Roman subscribe,con OK?
Roman subscribe,con OK.
This is not normal time.
This is a normal time.
You can't listen toccion через the hot madness.
It doesn't mean you might wiggle your nose.
Hey, dr placement.
This is Toja, I just watched Amplenomicon TV 6, it's pretty good, I like it, and cool stuff,
and yeah, quite a cute little beard, keep it up, good work.
Well hey everybody, this is Drupes, and this is Emponomicon Radio, Episode 51, and yeah,
51 were almost to the 52, which would have been one year, and that should have been
several months ago, but with our slow production cycle, that's how it goes.
So what the fuck have we been up to if we haven't been putting out radio shows?
Well let me tell you, we have been putting out radio shows of sorts, Mr. Fizzone has
been hard at work, and we're almost done, I believe, with the code for podcast incubator
version 2, and it's going to be a lot of PHP that's going to control a lot of things,
and make the site a lot more automated for everyone, and then he's going to give that
code out to anyone that wants it under the GPL, so people that say, hey podcast incubator
is a good idea, but I don't want to have to do all the code to do it, we'll be able
to have a nice database run site, boom, there you go.
And what we're doing radio shows too, DOS Man and I, we're talking though, they DOS
Man of course is from the packet sniffers, if you haven't, looked at that video, go
to infanomacon.org and click on the link, and we've come up with a system of doing a daily
radio show.
Now who wants to hear me talk every day, that's nobody, I don't even want to hear myself
talk every day, but I do want to hear good tech radio, and a lot of shows infanomacon
included are supposed to be tech shows, but it mainly ends up talking about my poo or what
that had for supper yesterday or what other people thought about something and blah blah blah.
Hardcore tech is very lacking, and you have to listen to a lot of stuff to get tech on
some of these shows.
So we've come up with a daily show that's going to be nothing but tech.
It's going to be like, here is a couple of little steps and then the show's over.
There's no fluff, there's no nothing.
The show will at least be five minutes long every day.
And we're getting together a cast of characters to help host these shows.
So that if we have 14 people, you're only going to have to listen to me once every two
weeks.
And that would really be really nice.
And we're working on ways of recording these things because a lot of people that we want
to get aren't really in the media scene as it would be.
And from the Linux link tech show has actually set up an asterisk box for us to record
stuff on.
So we can have conferences that are all recorded in nice sounding.
And I think that's really cool.
So be looking for this, we've bought it in Maine, we're working on the site.
Believe tomorrow we're going to have our first real episode.
And as soon as we can get a couple episodes recorded, we're going to start the show off.
And podcast feed or you can go to the website, it'll be on hacker media.
And pretty much everyone that's involved is going to tell all their friends to listen
to it.
Because it'd be really nice to have a good hardcore tech show.
Now I'm not going to quit and do an infinomicon to do this, but I mean, I'm infinomicon slow.
And it slowly comes out and I think a daily show would just be awesome.
I'd really like to compete with these people who have ads on their shows and try to sell
you shit everywhere you look and are a lot more popular than infinomicon.
Because I really, really think that the internet should not have ads everywhere.
And I really hate looking at ads.
I try my damnedest not to look at it, if you should look at my computer, run a little
ad block, run in my host file, go out and go into websites that there are ads, I just
don't go to those.
I try not to go to those, I should say.
Anyway, on with the show, well, for those of you all that are worried about Mr.
Ophuscated, let me tell you that he is not a happy camper.
He has electricity, his apartment's still there.
He has internet now, I believe.
And he also has a lot of work to do.
He's been working really hard, the place he works and making sure the people get what
they need.
He's kind of in the supply business as it would be.
So he's out there and he's alive and it's all good.
As soon as we can get him on the show, we're going to get some first hand accounts of
what Ophuscated thinks about the hurricane.
Well, I recently had a magazine that was 66 pages long and 16 of those 66 pages were ads
for one company.
That's fucking awesome, full page ads, one page after the other for 16 pages.
I love seeing that in the magazine.
Bob Denver passed away and you're saying how the hell is that related to tech?
Well, I'll tell you.
How that is related.
The boat that they took and they crashed into the island was named the SS Mino.
Now Mino, it's a fish name, it's a stupid name for a boat ride, whatever.
No, no, Mino was a real guy.
Mino was Newton Mino.
He was the JFK appointed FCC chairman who called at a National Association of Broadcasters
Convention in 1961.
He called television a vast wasteland and then aimed the boat after him.
And that's awesome.
Microsoft is in talks to buy a part of AOL.
Now even with Microsoft's monopoly, Google is still kicking their ass and they don't like
it.
And just a little side note to AOL, remember like five years ago when you were in like really
aggressive competition with Microsoft trying to get dial-ups subscribers and now they like
you because they think they can use you and they're not using you to help you.
They're using you to help themselves.
So if you're going to go with AOL, you need to take full advantage of what they got and
fuck them over because that's exactly what they're going to try to do with you.
Let's see.
Starting article the other day about cyber looting and the hurricane Katrina after math.
Now you've all seen this looting of the people coming out of the stores with televisions
and VCRs and shit because DVD players, no one steals a VCR I guess.
But there's a lot of cyber criminals as they would be who have registered some domain
names.
One of these cyber criminals is a guy named Bob Moneyhan.
And also known as Demon Moon, Florida has filed suit against this guy because he registered
a bunch of domain names like Katrinahelp.com, KatrinaFamilies.com, KatrinaDonations.com.
And he was having all that money donated to his private PayPal account, not any fun to
help anyone.
Katrina, other than himself, and he was not affected.
And of course this is just like they did with the tsunami, I always want to say that
tea.
And scams and cyber crime, supposedly, is dinting public interest in online services such
as shopping and banking because, well, there's crooked people everywhere.
And it's much easier to go to a bank that you've seen like the last 30 years of your life
and it's built out of bricks and everyone goes there as compared to some new branch that
you've never heard of before.
And it's in a shady part of town running out of cardboard box.
You just want to give them your money.
And with the internet, it's really easy for people to put up a front.
Since August, 2,500 storm-related sites have been registered.
On September 3rd alone, 450 domains with the word Katrina were registered.
Now of course some of these are going to be good and some of these are actually really
for helping people.
But I'm going to say most of them are bad and all the enough, most of them are still under
construction.
And I think if I was going to be the scum sucker, they would buy Katrina helpers.com that I
would probably want to have my side up and ready so I could steal my money from people
who are trying to help people and just continue to be a master.
Anyway, how would we fix such a problem?
Well, domain registers, so who they go to do to get these names, don't look and see
the content of the page.
Once you buy the domain name, it's pretty much yours, you can do what you need with it.
And so that's really hard to do.
You could have like an online system for reputations, but I think that would be a logistical
nightmare and it would still be something that you could defraud.
So what do you do about things like this, email us and groups at empanama.org and give us
solutions for how to handle being safe online, but go into a site that you think you can trust.
I think that's kind of an interesting topic.
Now, what's a site that people think they can trust?
Well, that'd be Google.
And Google is a business y'all, Google can do evil.
And what is Google?
Not the actual literal definition, but Google is an internet advertising company.
They're not a search engine company.
They're not an email-providing company.
That's all features that they have for their main business, which is their advertising.
And Google has been quietly buying up miles and miles of dark fiber and getting super
fast connections between major cities like New York and Atlanta.
And what's Google going to do with this, this, all this dark fiber that they're going
to put a light through, and all this high-speed connection, well, they're going to go with
some broadband stuff, baby.
The next thing with the internet is broadband.
I mean, America, I believe now, has more broadband users than dial up users.
And that's awesome.
So what are people doing with this broadband?
And granted, our broadband kind of sucks as compared to other countries broadband.
Some music video, TV, things like that, broadband is well suited for.
Now Google, if they want to do things like this, is going to have to pay a lot more, because
they have to pay for bandwidth themselves.
And they have to go through an ISP, like I have Bell South.
And when I go to Google, my Bell South talks to somebody and talks to somebody and eventually
talks to Google's internet service provider, and Google has to pay for that bandwidth.
And if they were their own ISP with their own little network, that would be a step out
of what they have to pay.
And maybe they could save a little money and make a little money because they're a business.
And making money is what they do.
Not being nice to you, making money is what they do.
Google has Google Earth and Google Maps.
It takes a lot of bandwidth.
They also have a beta video search.
But there's rumors of a Google music, a Google TV, and a Google talk, which would be similar
to like a Skype kind of thing.
And things like that use the bandwidth.
Now Skype really does it because Skype is a peer-to-peer network, and Google's not really
into that.
Google's going to be wanting to be put in ads on the computer.
Now some of us like the blogs and some of us don't.
And Google, I have a complaint with it whenever I'm searching for something that should
be an option to exclude blogs in the search, because a lot of blogs are really irrelevant,
and there's a lot of people like me spouting off their opinion, but in text form.
Well some people really end the blogs, and I guess we're certain things are very handy.
And places like Google are always slow with the blogs.
So the race is on, to become the blog search engine.
There's places like Technoroddy Incorporated Feedster and IceRocket.com, who are seeing
this opportunity and trying to seize on it.
And they're trying to real-time search blogs.
And I think that's really cool, as that's instant content.
Like when I put it up there, if I was a blogger, these places would have it as soon as
like humanly possible.
Or excuse me, as soon as computerly possible, because that's probably a shitload faster
than humanly.
And while Google will take a while to do it, I can see when Google searches my site,
and they're not very often searching my site.
And well how do these blog search engines going to work?
Well let's say I have, well I guess I kind of have a blog on Empanomicon, the front page,
which spouts off our information, well how are they going to know that that's a blog?
I'm not using any blogs software, I mean it's all just straight PHP and HTML.
So how are they going to understand that's a blog?
I mean obviously you can go to blogger.com or well known blog sites that host a bunch
and know that they're blogs.
So I think that's kind of interesting how they're doing that.
If you have ideas about this, remember email me, droopsinphanomicon.org.
I wouldn't know where to begin with things like that.
But I guess if you're on the cutting edge of stuff, you can find out what the unofficial
word is on things by reading the blogs, and you can watch buzz happen.
And y'all I know that says it's been the greatest show ever, but we've been doing a lot
of work with our other show that we're trying to start up, and we're actually recording
it up so tonight.
So I have to go do that, and I think this has been an Empanomicon.
I think this is the shortest one ever, but that's okay, because something new and good
is coming out of the shortness.
Anyway, I've been droops, Mickey Finn.
So I've been droopsinphanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this
has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has
been an Empanomicon.
So I've been droopsinphanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this
has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an
Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon,
and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an
Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon,
and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an
Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon,
and I think this has been a empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon or I think this has been an Empanomicon or I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon or I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this is an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon, and I think this has been an Empanomicon.
Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey
Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey
The sun's coming up and the birds are out singing
Let myself into my pad, when my way up that's far
Oostergacens twitch out eyes on it just a few more
Pit the cantipop is a wreck that's already on the CD player
And I just pushed that remote button to sublimit it
Listen to this sweet sculptural rhythms of Charles Mingus
And G.I.M on the rose and Jackie McLean
But you had unknown sex opponents
And the sound makes its way out the window
Mingling with the traffic glasses outside you know her
All of a sudden a mover coming by
Feeling of brief mortality
Because I'm getting older in the world
Coming up on 41 years
41 stony grey steps towards the grave
You know the box awaits us
Grizzly though now I'm gonna be beautiful words
And just like Charles Mingus wrote that beautiful piece of music
Hepatite but never doff it
I say so long Eric
So long John Coltayne and Charles Mingus
So long G.I.M. didn't list a young
So long Billy Holiday and Ella Fitzgerald
So long G.I.M. really
So long Muddy Waters
And so long Howlin' World
Go for the smokey
Got yourself a gun
I'm always saying you'll be there
Chose on one
Shake it
One in a million
You got to
In the shadows
No matter a bad sound
Blue moon in your eyes
You look a bit smaller than me
I won't let love had gone
Your poppin' never told you about
The right and wrong
But you're king, the good, the baby
I believe that you're a few and fine
You're shitin' nobody
No wonder a bad sound
Blue moon in your eyes
Just sing around
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
So you feel the cup of smokey
The world turns upside down
No other buts things I've been insane
Since they're blues walked in a town
It's what you want in a million
Cause you got that
Shotgun shot
Shake my body
Bone in the room
Bang sound
Blue moon in your eyes
Just sing around
One poppin' never told you about
The right and wrong
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
Oh yeah
Oh yeah
It's all good
It's all good
It's all good
When you woke up this morning here
But then was gone by half past 10
Your head was going tinged out
Ringin' like a bellroom your head down to your toes
Like some boys gonna tell you there's
Nothing you should know, that night keep us lying
But today is so annoying
And time's like days, make sure you want that
If you'll never know what I mean
And there are things that they appear to the others
Wise husband's mother's father's sister
But as long as don't you wish you didn't
Function, don't you wish you didn't
Think we only need to check and a next little thing
Boy I do, so make up
You're meant to go on
Cause when you woke up this morning
Ever then your head was gone
Woke up this morning
When you woke up this morning
Woke up this morning
Woke up this morning
Woke up this morning
You wanna be, you wanna be the children
Don't worry
Yeah, you know it's a
You can't help yourself
Woke up this morning
Woke up this morning
Woke up this morning
Woke up this morning
Woke up this morning
Woke up yourself
Woke up
Woke up yourself
Woke up
Woke up
Woke up
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio is founded by the Digital.Pound and the Infonomicum Computer Club.
HPR is funded by the Binary Revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by LUNAR pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LUNAR pages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share a line, lead us our license.
