Episode: 1332
Title: HPR1332: Jingles
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1332/hpr1332.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 23:39:36

---

music
Hey, this is Stitch, and I just made some jingles for hacker public radio.
I hope you enjoyed them.
I will send them to admin or feedback or some other email address that's posted on your
website.
Well, enjoy, use them freely, and I hope they are good enough for the show.
See you later.
This is the Stitch, signing out from the Netherlands.
Bye.
For more information, contact Stitch at stitch at hack42.nl, that's stitch at hack42.nl.
Enjoy your samples.
See you later.
You are listening to HPR, HPR.
You are listening to HPR, hacker public radio.
You are listening to HPR, hacker public radio.
You are listening to HPR, hacker public radio.
You are listening to HPR, hacker public radio.
The only question you need to answer is, will my show be of interest to hackers?
Hacker public radio.org hacker public radio.org
This is hacker public radio.
Hacker public radio.
Hacker public radio.
Hacker public radio in a world where there's only one radio station.
In a world where only one radio station is dedicated to liberty, internet, culture and
hackers.
This radio station is called hacker public radio hacker public radio.org.org HPR you are listening
to HPR, you are listening to HPR, you my friend are listening to HPR, you are listening to HPR,
you are listening to HPR, hacker public radio, hacker public radio.
You are listening to HPR, www.hacker public radio.org HPR it is ruining my voice as we speak.
This is HPR, this is HPR, hacker public radio.
This is HPR, this is HPR, this, this is HPR, HPR, HPR, HPR, HPR, HPR, HPR, this is HPR,
hacker, hacker public radio, oh my god, it's time to kick ass and chew bubble gum and
I'm all out of gum, you're listening to KTIT playing the breast of best in music.
I have one request, listen to HPR, listen to HPR, listen to HPR, listen to HPR, listen to
HPR
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on the day through Friday
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HBR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicum Computer
Club.
HBR is funded by the Binary Revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are proudly sponsored
by Luna Pages.
For shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunapages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments, attribution, share
a like, lead us our lives.
