Episode: 1140
Title: HPR1140: TGTM Newscast for 12/9/2012
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1140/hpr1140.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 19:40:27

---

Hi everyone, this is Clat2, you may or may not know me from Hacker Public Radio and it
turns out we're throwing a party on New Year's Eve and everyone's invited whether you've
listened to Hacker Public Radio or not, whether you've contributed or not, you should stop
in on the Mumble server, mumble.openspeak.cc, Hort 64747, you can use any username you want,
drop in, say hi, eavesdrop, whatever you want to do, it'll be a lot of fun and it's going
for 24 hours, that's right, UTC minus 12, the whole UTC day will be broadcasting all
day, all night and we want you to join us.
You're listening to TGTM News, number 84 recorded for December the 9th, 2012, you're
listening to the Tech Only Hacker Public Radio Edition, to get the full podcast including
political, commentary and other controversial topics, please visit www.talkeaktme.us.
Here are the vials to six for this program, your feedback matters to me, please send your
comments to dg at deepgeek.us, the web page for this program is at www.talkeaktme.us,
you can subscribe to me on identical as the username deepgeek or you could follow me
on Twitter, my username there is dgtgTM, as an deepgeek talk geek to me.
And now the tech roundup, from torrentfreak.com by Ernesto did November the 30th, 2012, imagine
BitTorrent Piracy Group sysop jail for 40 months, September last year imagine stop distributing
new films via their private BitTorrent tracker, unleash the net.
As imagine, was one of the internet's leading BitTorrent release groups, their absence quickly
led to rumors that the group had been busted by the feds.
A few months later confirmation arrived when the group was indicted by the US government.
In April, Jeremiah Perkins of Port Smouth, Virginia, Gregory Sherwanek of New York, Willie
Lambert of Pennsylvania, and Sean Lovelady of California, were all arrested and charged
with several counts of criminal copyright infringement.
Earlier this month, Lovelady and Lambert received 23 and 30 months prison sentences respectively.
And yesterday, 53 year old Sherwanek was jailed for 40 months by Virginia District Court
judge, Arenda Allen.
In addition, Sherwanek was ordered to pay $15,000 in restitution to the MPAA.
After he serves as prison sentence, Sherwanek will be placed on probation for three years
during which time he'll be forbidden from possessing any electronic device with the capability
of reproducing and distributing copies of copyright materials.
The 40 month jail term is the longest for a file sharing related case in the United States,
according to the US government, Sherwanek deserved a higher sentence than the previously
convicted defendants.
As a sissop, he was higher in rank than Lambert and Lovelady, who were administrator and
moderator respectively.
Despite having a clean slate when it comes to criminal encounters with the law, the prosecution
called for Sherwanek to be harshly punished, not least because he continued his work
at Imagine, for more than a year after his house was first searched.
Arenda used the search of his residence as a reason to reconsider his participation in
the Imagine group and to end his role in the conspiracy to commit copyright crime.
Defint, Sherwanek, and his co-conspirators continued and accelerated their illegal conduct
in defiance of the law, United States Attorney Neil McBride wrote to the court.
McBride further cited a report prepared on behalf of the major movie studios, which states
that Imagine was responsible for 41% of all instances of English language theatrical
audio piracy from September 2009 to September 2011, which amounted to almost five times
more releases than the next leading English language release group.
To read the rest of this article, follow links in the show notes.
From torrentfreak.com, December 1, 2012, by EnigmaX, top big torrent sites have domains
put on hold, pending legal action.
Earlier this week, Homeland Security's ICE unit announced a new round of domain seizures,
unlike previous operations that centered purely on the United States' health domains,
this one was broader in scope.
Dubbed Project Transatlantic, the seizures took place with help from European law enforcement
agencies and Europol, quote, recognizing the global nature of internet crime, this year
the IPR Center partnered with Europol, who, through its member countries, executed coordinate
seizures of foreign based top level domains, such as.eu.be.dk.fr.ro and.uk.
This effort is titled Project Transatlantic, and resulted in 31 domain named seizures,
unquote, ICE announced.
Compted by this new development, torrentfreak spoke with the owners of civil-bit torrent sites
to get their opinion on what this might need for their sites.
The general feeling was that ICE might be sending a message that no TLD is safe, even
those in Europe.
But despite the concern, what we didn't expect was any immediate action to seize domains.
However, although not concrete, activity involving civil-top big torrent and other file-sharing
related.eu domains in the past 24 hours has given course for concern.
Yes, they afternoon the stasis of torrents.eu, phenope.eu, and btcne.eu will all forcibly
changed by your ID, the European registry of internet domain names, rather than being
simply mocked as registered, the domains were flagged as on hold.
Quote, this domain name has been registered and is on hold.
It is active, but may not be traded or transferred, pending the outcome of legal activity, unquote.
Your ID's notes explain, the domains are not seized or taken offline, but the owners
are unable to make any changes while they are on hold.
Simless status changes will also apply to several other related domains, including ddl
linking sites, separate.eu, and downextra.eu, torrentsite, real torrents.eu, and streaming
links sites, watch series.eu, and channelcut.eu.
The changes took place within the space of a few minutes, starring at 1631 and ending
at 1635 Friday afternoon, other domains may have been affected, but so far those listed
above are the only ones that we were able to find.
To read the rest of the article, follow links in the show notes.
From torrentfreak.com, by Ernesto Deidz, December 6, 2012, torrent reactor launches proxy
to circumvent torrentsite censorship.
This week an Italian court ordered all internet providers to block access to the domain names
and IP addresses of both torrentreactor.net and torrents.net.
The worked files of police investigation that was initiated after complaints by the local
music industry, previously courts had already ordered similar blockades against the pirate
bay and kickass torrents.
The torrent reactor team are not amused by the blockade and have quickly taken action
to allow their Italian users to regain access to the site.
Quote, it is really sad to see authorities intervene, with the free and open internet.
Pressure from media conglomerates is not doing any good and people should definitely defend
their rights and freedoms.
The torrent reactor team tells torrentfreak.
Over the past 24 hours, the site's operators have worked hard to get a proxy service operational
and it eventually went live a few hours ago.
The proxy site, com.in, allows people to access torrent reactor when it's blocked and it
also works with three other bit torrentsites that are currently censored in Italy.
The torrent reactor is one of the most popular torrent sites in the country.
According to the Italian prosecution, 600,000 locals visit torrent reactor each month, generating
4 million page views, and total 14% of the site's users come from Italy.
For the time being, these users can still reach the site through com.in and other proxies,
but the torrent reactor crew is encouraging the public to speak out against such censorship
efforts.
Quote, when a ruling like this is made, the public should oppose it and have their voice heard.
We hope those in Italy and other countries can stand up and change the situation for
the better.
They say, the music industry won't be very happy with torrent reactor's move and they
are likely to ask for an injunction against com.in as well.
The same happened last year when the authorities shut down the general purpose proxy site,
proxyatalia.com because it allowed a lot of times to access the pirate bay.
And so, the whack and wool continues.
From TechDard.com by Mike Masnick, did December 5, 2012.
No surprise here.
Congress passes unanimous resolution telling the ITU, hands off the internet.
One thing that's been so universal in the U.S. is pretty much everyone's opposition
to the whole ITU, WCIT, charade, going on to buy right now.
It doesn't matter what political party they belong to or what general views on technology
or even the internet they hold, pretty much everyone recognizes even if there are faults
with the system today, giving the ITU more control will inevitably make things worse.
So it should come as little surprise that Congress has passed another resolution.
They did an earlier one in August that more or less said the same thing.
Unanimously, 397-0, telling the ITU to not even think about trying to take over any
aspect of internet governance.
This resolution first was approved in the Senate and this is just the House concurring.
Quote, resolved by the Senate, the House of Representatives concurring, that it is the
sense of Congress that the Secretary of State and consultation with the Secretary of Commerce
should continue working to implement the position of the United States on internet governance.
They clearly articulate the consistent and unequivocal policy of the United States to
promote a global internet free from government control and preserve and advance the successful
multi-stakeholder model that governs the internet today.
Of course, such resolution is technically meaningless.
It's mostly just a bit of warning that if the ITU does actually lead to significant
changes in internet governance, the US is unlikely to go along with them.
In an age when it's rare to see bipartisan support of anything, it's nice to see pretty
much everyone recognize the ITU process is dangerous and undesirable.
From TechDirt.com by Mike Masnik, they had December the 6th, 2012, Kim.com cleared to pursue
case against New Zealand for illegal spying.
The latest in the saga of New Zealand's government communication security bureau, GCSB, their
version of the NSA, illegally spying on Kim.com, is that he's been cleared to follow lawsuit
against the GCSB for his activities and the GCSB will be told to reveal some of the details
of its secret electronic spying setup.
Quote.
The order for the GCSB to reveal top secret details came as the high court at Auckland
ruled the spy agency would now sit alongside the police in a case probing the unlawful
search warrant used in the raid on.com's North Auckland mansion.
If high court judge Helen Winkelman said the GCSB would have to confirm all entities
to which it gave information swash through its illegal interception of .com's communications.
She said her order included members of echelon, five eyes, including any United States authority.
The echelon network is an international intelligence network to which New Zealand and the United
States are members along with Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.
End.
You have to imagine that New Zealand officials are seriously regretting falling for the
DOJ's version of the mega upload story without bawling to actually check the details, huh?
Other headlines in the news to read these stories follow links in the show notes.
Newly released drone records reveal extensive military flights in the United States.
Update.
A new 25GPU monster devised passwords in seconds.
News from tech.com, TheStand.org, Havana at Times.org, Worstore.com, IndiesTimes.com, and
All of Up.com used under a range permission.
News from Tornfreak.com used under permission of the Creative Commons by Attribution License.
News sources retain their respective copyrights.
Thank you for listening to this episode of Talk Geek to Me.
Here are the vials statistics for this program.
Your feedback matters to me, please send your comments to DG at deepgeek.us.
The web page for this program is at www.talkgeektoMe.us.
You can subscribe to me on Identica as the username DeepGeek or you could follow me on Twitter.
My username there is DGTGM as in DeepGeek Talk Geek to Me.
This episode of Talk Geek to Me is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution
share like 3.0 on Port License.
This license allows commercial reuse of the work, as well as allowing you to modify
the work, so long as you share alike the same rights you have received under this license.
Thank you for listening to this episode of Talk Geek to Me.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio or Tacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital.Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club.
HPR is funded by the Binary Revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are proudly sponsored by Lina Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinaPages.com for all your hosting
needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a Creative Commons Attribution
Share Alive 3.0 on License.
