Episode: 1360
Title: HPR1360: HPR Community News For September2013
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1360/hpr1360.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 00:18:23

---

before.
Hello everybody, my name is Anham and you're very welcome to another episode of Hacker
Public Radio.
This is the community news round-up section where we look back at all the shows that
have happened in the last month and we've discussed them at length marking you on various
different aspects.
The audio quality, your ability to communicate your message, the quality of your show notes
and various other topics.
Joining me this evening from top to bottom is Ahuka.
Hello Mr. Gainmore.
You really are sick if you're going to judge everything.
Apologies, Funko.
Kevin Wischer who is also Ahuka.
Okay, Kevin?
Kevin Wischer is?
No.
Kevin Wischer is now introduced.
Kevin are you around?
No.
And Mr. Pokey.
Oh, hey, hey.
So as always, we have the traditional buttering of the new hosts names which I will not do this
week.
Yes.
So we have a couple of new hosts to welcome.
The first one is Gabriel Evenfire and the second one is James Michael DuPont and we
are very happy to have both of them Hacker Public Radio family.
Indeed we are.
Indeed we are.
So as I said earlier, before we go on, I actually want to make a public service announcement.
Okay.
And should we do the thing, eh, eh, eh, eh, thing, is it like a emergency service now
or is it more like a doo, doo, doo, doo?
I have no idea what you're talking about as I come from a country that is far away from
that sort of thing.
The explanation is required.
He's free associating.
This free associating mean like a little crazy?
Uh, yeah.
Oh yeah.
Right on.
Okay.
Well, I start as many.
Is that like the tune when the public service announcement comes on the TV or something?
Yeah, they used to do, I, they might have only been one station that did it or might have
been all them.
I don't know, but there was a lot of it when I was a kid.
They would do these like the more you know things and they would tell you like how not
to get in trouble with drug dealers or why you should be good to your brother and sister
or something.
And it would always, you know, they would go the more you know and then the music would
go do, do, do, do, and you could kind of almost hear them sing in the more you know,
but they never did.
Huh?
Okay.
Interesting.
Maybe somebody should do a show or not.
And then the other, not even that interesting and then the other thing was the tone that they
play when they're interrupting your show to tell you there's like a weather catastrophe
on its way.
Oh, okay.
They have this thing here, but maybe the first of the month, the test, the nationwide alert
system.
And the first time I heard that, I frock myself like a banana.
Oh, why is it new?
No, I moved to the Netherlands.
So obviously nobody like, and you're way in the coast.
Hello, sorry, you come to the Netherlands for the first time.
Remember the five minutes past 12 on the first Monday of the month, we set off this
siren everywhere without any explanation.
The people continue operating as like they don't hear it.
Yeah.
Heads up.
Oh, it was like a like a PA system, it's like, oh, you know, the air, the air attack warnings
you and your family should say shelter immediately that test system, like a for real like
mechanically spinning device that makes an alarm.
No, I'll, I'll add the sound to the end of this episode.
So you know what it sounds like, and it's ugly, fierce, horrible.
Actually, I need to cover that as well.
But it's this weird air raid sireny type disaster, you know, something, something is gone.
Something's gone wrong and you're supposed to go home, shut the windows and turn on the
radio and listen to the news.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
What their test dress.
It was a whole period there after the cold war ended for the Ditton and Man on the war on Torar started again.
They started up.
And now the test.
Every month.
That's crazy.
The thing we have just comes over the TV and the radio station.
You should call it the emergency broadcast system.
Uh, and when they switch it on,
It can kind of interrupt all of the over-the-air broadcasts and all of the cable
Broadcasts like all the everybody with a license to transmit in any way has
You know this thing hooked up on their input side and when the emergency broadcast
System people throw the switch. It kind of takes over all the stations and it's on every station everywhere at the same time
And they have this like alert sound that they play so you know to pay attention
But they they change the name of it. I forget what they when they change the system they change the name as if you know people
On the end care, you know what the name is, but they did change it and we should welcome
Lander who just joined the room
So we're just going up
You're just about to start going through the shows if that's oh no, I was making a special public service announcement
Thank you, Polky for leading us down this remember I wanted to keep this short because it wasn't feeling that well
Anyways, I just want to reiterate the audio manifesto now a lot of people are getting excited about professional audio quality
Recordings and that's all wedding good and I'm all in favor of that near your problem here
However
Here at HPR we have one rule and that is content is king audio quality doesn't really matter
We do appreciate good audio quality like everybody else, but we will never ever have and we never ever will turn anyone away
Or having bad audio quality
Even dark fader who refuses to go push to talk is allowed on HPR
So let us be clear if you're listening to the door to door key the door to doors
Geeks show on improving audio quality. Please listen to it. Please take notes
But remember that if you want to practice hike above the gritty is a good place to start. Yeah
Just make that clear right here now
Yeah, and I don't think anybody's even ever commented on somebody else's show quality that I can remember people often ask
What did you guys think and how can I improve it?
But I don't think anybody's ever said oh boy that was terrible and and you know step it up a notch
I've never heard that from anyone
Yeah, that is the founding if you go back way way way back
It is the whole purpose of hiker public radio is
As a concept is to get people into podcasting and
There is a learning curve involved in any of this each of us podcasts in a different way
And there's a learning curve to get your get yourself in the zone
There's been a few times where I put on
In fact last month. I was
And I had my audio settings in setting correctly and I sounded very very bad and people kind of offered very helpful suggestions on how to improve that and
So I think any criticism that you get will be constructive criticism or will be will be help
But we will never ever ever refuse the show content is more important than even if
You're doing the topic about widgets and the only person who
Can if the topic is interesting enough for the person they will listen to it. They will listen to your show. Yeah, just make that clear
Yeah, I think we're all in agreement there
Okay, let's run down to the shows starting as uh the first show of the month which was uh done by J Rob what's in my bag
And he went through his uh bag was what appeared to be how does medical cases all so uh that was a
Very nice show. I like the series. I'm gonna repeat what I said last month which
Uh, I'm trying to like to hear someone discuss what's the best bag true for yeah, yeah
Oh, we just got that that was um
Was that last month's show Mr
Yeah, where you talked about the the bag that he bought with the the Molly attachments and all that
That was a really good show too. I don't remember J Rob shows because I know I heard it
But they were so like there was a bunch of them all at once that came in of what is in my bags
And they were all really cool, uh, but I don't remember specifically which one was which at this point
Then the following day we had uh Frank Bell who uh baked a cake
and uh big red
big red
And I'm um all into that I I saved that one a my mv3 player
I've moved it into my save the show folder. Did anyone find that annoying that you couldn't take at the end like you just wanted to taste that bread
No, I could taste it. I
My wife and I buy a lot of like artisanal bread
So I kind of had it in mind what was going on there. It was great
And I'm definitely gonna try to make some bread the way he said I loved his tip about knowing when the the dough is is
dry enough
That was good all right. Yeah, I had this is one of the ones that I forced my wife to listen to so
It's all about maker culture, right? So that's supposed to be tasting his bread. You're supposed to be making your own
Yeah, but that's not all you know, it's like you know hear him doing the bread and here's
Here's the photos that went along with him and then
jizz you know
He has to bring he has to bring some to a linux vest
We keep
Mail it over to me. We keep cutting off land here. Sorry, man
No, that's fine. I just I'll definitely admit to some jealousy
I used to bake a lot in college and have not had as much time to do so anymore
And he did mention that the the amount of time that it takes
I suppose you could as my wife was considering baking the bread for the family
You really need to get into a routine do this in the morning and then leave it overnight and do that
a lot of work
Yeah, it was a good tip about the time there
I knew there was something about time and they had to do with proof in the bread and all that but I'm glad he kind of spelled that out a little better
Okay, moving on to the next day
taking us from
Yes, taking us from one end of the spectrum here in HPR to the other we had a cyclop with hackers perspective on schizophrenia
and
Following after hearing this show, I created a mental health and series here on HPR where I put this and some other of
Horatio's and one that we recorded
The interview Dave and I recorded last month as well
That's good. I just couldn't stop listening to
Fascinating. Yeah, this one was a real eye opener for me
Just love some of sick clubs earlier podcasts about lexers and parsers and compilers and so forth
You know, this really how the level of technical detail she went into on this and as well as her own experience just fabulous
I love her shows. I love the content and at the same time. I'm always frustrated by the not by her
But by the lack of knowledge that the human race has on these topics that we haven't you know figured these things out yet
And we should be the point to oversolven them. It always feels like
Yeah, I think my point on this is schizophrenia sucks. I was
Prior to this episode or prior to the series actually
I but you know, you're only experience of schizophrenia's, you know, Hollywood version of it and this is really especially the art work
As well. I don't know if you if you haven't had a chance to go and see the artwork for this. You really showed she's
Turns out not only can she compile while she taking a raspberry pie apart and making a
Humor interactive compiler
She is also a very very very good artist. She sent me some more of her
Work as well. It is I think brilliant as the only word I can use to describe it
I'd like to hear what she thinks about that old kinks song because I think it you know, it's like the the dark humor thing
We're kind of gives you a little bit of relief. I don't know
Okay, how's uh move on um, I would love to again say every time I hear this I just want to give her a big hug
I don't know if that helps but uh
That's that's life I'm afraid. Yeah, same here. We're all pulling for you. Say flip
The following day we had talked to you to me nukes cast for uh
2013-308 day. Why didn't you pick this one up?
Yeah, the quality control has gone out to under here and I'll be ready
I must have been asleep
What happened?
The uh
I put okay, here's here's a here's a little secret
month
Yes, that too
I
Remember shows this year
All right, the talking to me newscast the day is is 2013-13-08
And as we all know there are 12 months in the year or at least the people you and your fancy Gregorian calendars
No, I just I re-number they all the dates to ISO 8601 because there is only one date format and that is ISO 8601
And the sooner we all start using it the better
You can keep you can keep your Fahrenheit. You can keep your Fahrenheit. That's fine
Let's switch the back-end date system since you mentioned that I have picked that up and I've been using that in real life
I do it 100% of the time and I think it annoys the hell out of people at the doctor's office and and people I write checks to
But I'm still doing it because it only takes two minutes
It's it took me about two weeks to do it and then you get over and then
Use it everywhere and then people go, why did you hate to date this way because it's confusing
0707 what what what is that? Okay, I'll move on
Anyway, that was deep geek and Dan Moshko and at the end of this I have some very sad news about
Tokik to me newscast as well
Okay, moving on we had Garjola with programming languages number three C and he assured me that at the end of this
I would be able to hold into the limits kernel
Actually, no, he warned me that he wasn't but this was
Actually nice because I in college I got dumped for air some C programming assuming that everybody knew how to code
And this was just a very nice introduction into a little bit of basic C
I'd like to help one into the concepts behind C a little bit and you know the advantages and disadvantages
And some of it I knew but some of it was
More of an epiphany so it was pretty good
My my only comment I thought this is really great, but one of the things I find that I do not know
Because I never did computer science and my biologist um is that
It thinks like what's the difference between functional programming and procedural programming
Be great somebody was to explain stuff like this show you can find it and Wikipedia
I'd like somebody who really understands it to explain it to me
Can you email me that as a show topic in case I forget? Yeah, sure
I just say
Seed is one of my favorite languages and I really enjoyed this episode and
Just this series the the show notes have been so thorough. I've really enjoyed that
This is another one that I want to make into a series programming languages
And kind of also want to bring up the point when does a series become a series
It is when it becomes a series. I think it's like well. How do you know what's porn when it's porn
I know what for the series
Um, but usually the general rule of thumb is if somebody does three three things or there's a
A big story arc to it or there's a start middle and end to it
So some things are obviously series and some things are not
What about when someone starts a show just by saying I'd like to
Propose this is a series because that's what I did open other people would jump on with it
Yeah, that's fine and then when three episodes come together and it looks like there's going to be more material
Then we'll make a series but otherwise don't one thing that you want we'll have we have the
Tag hashtag feels so if you want to group something like how I got into Linux then you know
We should be able to search and those and then at a certain point put them into a series
I was just thinking in the in the um template for the text file
There's a space for the series. So it's whenever you put something in that on that line
Yeah, that line can be the if there exists a series then put it in there or if
If there's if you're topics all about something
You know procedural programming and then put your topics about Pascal compiler
But you want to add it to the network and series then you put it into the network and series comma some other series
I don't know. It's it's kind of vague yet. It'll usually if somebody emails me asking any chance of
Gathering these all those series together shows together about lab and we'll put them into a series
But there are so many series now right now in the database that the the term series has kind of
Lost its meaning if there's only two shows in a series then that's not a series
It's a show that has got two hashtag, you know
I'm thinking more switching to hashtags and keeping the term series for something that is actually a series
The following day we had 1331 a tale of see he drew a tale of truth
I can't help but think he was trying to be funnier and my bill is my bill so fun. Uh
Sorry, I came over. I'm sorry. I'm why bill
Um, but this was a I felt his pain. I felt his pain so much
I
Was so happy that this had a happy ending. It was really thrilled that he was able to restore and save this
It's just with all that you just keep beating yourself against all
Overcoming one hurdle and then going on to the next one
But it also tells you folks why you should be using an encrypted disk. I mean, it wouldn't have helped him
Um, I'm sure he's glad he isn't using an encrypted disk
But anybody can get if you're not encrypting your disk pull disk encryption
Anybody can get on to your machine and change the group password and they have complete access to your machine
And it does not slow down performance. Yes, I know I promise to do an episode
Okay, the next day we had stitch calling in some jingles and uh we met up with stitch during the um during the
OHM 2013 thing and
graciously allowed us to set up a booth on a rainbow island and
Because it was absolutely boiling and they had some shade there. So uh, that was really kind of cool
So this is the sort of thing that you could clip into a um, you know, and as an interstitial if you wanted to do that in between your shows
I didn't know these were gonna get put out as a show and I had been
Cutting them up and and stitching them back together for the intros on my own shows
And in fact, I put them in the beginning of one that I haven't uploaded yet. I'm still editing
That's the whole point she sent me something it goes out as a show
And then we had geek dad with the introduction to how I got into Linux and I loved his handle geek dad that is so cool
No, it doesn't but I'm actually surprised at how many Americans come through the mac
The whole mac thing if mac was definitely not as popular over here in Europe or am I wrong Dave?
I never saw many of them of the sort he's talking about personally
Um, we had consultants years ago. He used to lug those in in a in a huge great big backpack
You imagine lugging a you know the you know the mac he was talking about the what was it the the mac to the picture of mac too
Yeah, yeah, I remember a guy had a had a backpack that you could stick that in look fast
But um, yeah, but I never saw many of them we didn't have them in the university. I worked up
My mission is that Apple is really big in the United States
Much less so almost everywhere
back in in
Oh, sorry
Back in in the old days in the you know 80s and and early 90s
You know before it was mac actually back when it was just apple
We had a lot of them in schools. We would have like um
You know like a computer lab in a elementary school might have five or six
Apple twos or apple two ease or some maybe an apple two e
You know among among five or six apple twos and then you might have one
Machine running DOS over in the corner
Uh, and then you know later when windows came in you might have a windows three one machine
somewhere and then
You know people kind of seem to migrate over to that, but it was always a thing back then where it was like
people who
Used computers to to do things and to get things done seem to use max for that or apples for that
Or some of the early max and then like people who just wanted to do with the computer told them to do you'd use
You'd see like windows three one and then you know later on windows 95 came in and it was just
You know more more of that kind of thing people who knew what they were doing
Um or who came from unix maybe would would be on the max
So it was always a smaller market share but more hardcore
Fans of it, you know kind kind of what linux is today. It makes perfect sense to me that people would go from apple machines to linux
You know and skip right over
OS 10, you know, that that kind of thing
Yep in my experience with the apple two there was one of them in the computer room
And I remember if we can give it me out a floppy disk because you had to press that eject thing and it just we can give it out
And that's annoying me
I remember being in a
Computer class and probably like fifth grade or sixth grade and it was the first time I'd ever really been able to
get my hands on a computer um
And you know our introduction to it the teachers said computers can do three things
They can do word processing. They can do spreadsheets and they can do graphs
And that's it other than that. It's just there's there's games
But we're not gonna talk about that here
But these are the three useful things that computers can do
Uh or databases. I'm sorry, which which was um you could make graphs out of out of spreadsheet. Sorry databases
Spreadsheets and and word processors were the three useful things and that stuck with me for years
I had it that was like a crutch that uh or a roadblock that I had to get around
Microsoft made a pretty big business on that premise actually
Yeah, well so did apple we used to turn on those those apple two ease and we'd run you know word processing program where you had to
Um, you know put in all your own your own tags for italics and underlying and that kind of thing and
A database was just a table of relational thing
You know, it was like you pull up a page and put in your own
Your own um fields and fill them in one one entry per field that would really really simple stuff and quick too fast as hell
And um, you know, and then you could make a spreadsheet if you had some math to do
Okay, 1334 open source mental in this with ed thinkler
I actually should have put this down on the ur name david
Well, I don't think so. No, it's fine
Um, yes ed was uh, yeah, essentially he's also this episode is also under the mental illness section uh series
This guy I liked this show and he
Kind of answered a question when I did the the show about campfires and you know said how that related to my social awkwardness
I heard a lot of people say
Boy, I didn't think he'd be a guy who would feel awkward in a social situation
But it's it's exactly like this guy put it um
When I'm with people who I know and who I know are like minded then I'm
Fairly open and outgoing, but when I'm with a bunch of strangers
I don't know those people or I I feel somehow that they may uh
You know, I don't know disapprove of of you know my lifestyle choices or whatever I get kind of introverted
I you know, and I mean and it's
In this guy kind of mentioned then how if you have something to do or something that you know about that you can
that you feel like you can
You know offer to the group and and be appreciated for then it's a little easier to be outgoing
But when you don't have a very firm feeling like you can contribute
um
It that's when the the introversion happens
Oh, okay, you gotta give them a little bit on that because deciding to be a barbecue master is just a weird life
That's fine. It's I didn't decide it. It's just one thing I discovered that I can do
We very much enjoyed that show
Yeah, I got that people see you like it more than I expected anyone to but that's you know
I wasn't bringing it up to discuss that. I just
This guy did a better job of explaining my position than I did is all I was saying yeah
cool
The following day we had Libra of us 11 writer character styles by uhuka
Who come running out of you these series only one more left to be posted
Yeah, there's three already in the queue and there's one about to appear next week. Oh, okay, you're getting quieter and quieter
All right, is this any better? Yes, okay
Yeah, I thought I had enough to go through like the end of November
Yeah, that's about right. There's a three weeks of a forecast out on the on the queue right so
I'm actually starting writing this weekend and uh
So yeah, there's there's more shows coming here. You're you're never gonna run dry and anybody who wants more
Oh, Libra office
Sholes should pray for snowy weather in mid-America
Well, it's it's not snowy, but you know for the last few weeks
I've just been feeling kind of itchy about I haven't done anything on this for a while and I need to get going again
So uh, and I made a few personal changes in my
Lifestyle one of which is I have
stepped down from Ohio Linux fest. Oh
Yeah, yeah, just it was it was time and uh, you know, that was taking up a lot of my
Energy and attention and I've decided that there's other things that really rather be doing and one of them is to
Get more into the Libra office stuff and maybe even get involved with the documentation team for Libra
I heard you mentioned and I think you'll be sorely missed and thanks very much for all your work
Yeah, well, thank you
You know, it's a lot of fun. I did it for you know three years and
You know, let someone else have the fun now, but uh, yeah, I'm really looking forward to getting in there and I'm not just Libra office
But uh, I've got another I'm gonna kick off another series that I hope other people will jump in and join me on
Uh, as well, which I think would be interesting
Cool and by the way, and I've said this before, but I can't go back to Ohio
But if I could I would have gone to Ohio Linux Fest and I would have gone to the Vajama party
But then you would have been one of two people exactly. I would have been the other guy. Yeah. That's right
Kevin Ottie was the uh was the other one and boy did we take a ton of grief over that?
I think you should be applauded for at least trying it
Yeah, I do too. I really do and I um dead serious when I say I would have been there
Yeah, why can't you go back there?
I was like, yeah, can't go back to that county. Sure. Sure, it's gonna take it a minute or two
Yeah, I lived in Ohio for two years and I just um
I've had my fill when I left I swore it off. I wasn't going back
I'll drive around it if I have to get to the other side of it. I just can't
Well, I make ketchup with you at NELF one of these days. I'm actually from Massachusetts originally. So oh cool
Yeah, that would be awesome to catch up. Yeah, I I lived in one of the less
I mean a place you wouldn't want to live, you know, I'm sure all of Ohio is not like the place I lived but
um the people I met there just did not give me a good impression
Uh-huh cool
Lima was the name of the city by the way
Lima, Ohio
Yeah, but in the north of the west
Uh-huh. Yeah, don't go there. Anyway
I'm in Ann Arbor area. So I'm just north of that and if you're from I'm a Ohio and want to
spend it your own episode to HPR you can do that. Yeah. Oh yeah, feel free to tell me off. Tell me why I'm wrong
Right
Yeah, thank you very much. This I liked I did like this
Okay, help me out with this one because I didn't dislike it, but I kind of felt like
uh
Somebody turned two pages at once on me like I didn't like is this was he getting it um like transhumanism? Is that what this was about
Lots of transhumanism
Oh like the next step of evolution including computers and technology
I uploading your brain into uh into the cloud so that you live forever
Yeah, we're at least implanting some sort of
God, he does electronic devices
Looking too deeply into this by the way book review shut up discussing books until you do the book review back
Thank you very much number
Yeah, all right. Well, it's a good story. I don't know what the flow. It was a good story. I liked it
No, it was well written. It was a good story. Yes, I just I kind of
It it seemed like it was supposed to be like directing me
To something that I should go learn about but not really explaining what or why I should
Yeah, that's not the impression I got of it at all
To me, okay, I think that was it was sort of suggested that that's how this society got to that point
But I think more it was just sort of the the irony that um this super advanced civilization that we think we have now
To basically only looks advanced to us because we're in it
Okay
Seems like a massive big extrapolation and he also made reference to
sort of
Our predecessors who had no language at all. At least I think he did
I'm not sure whether I made that up in my own head
But uh, yeah, Dave, I picked up on that as well. Yeah. Yeah, so I thought it was a great idea
I wasn't sure I would necessarily agree with that
Extrapolation, but it's a perfectly valid one to to offer to us. I thought it was really well done
I like this reading style actually. I thought his style was brilliant. I could listen to him a lot
Just you had that and he had it just as sort of listenable to style to appeal to me and he's got links to all the
sound effects that he used
Hey Ken by the way, I think that um julium was was our second new podcaster this month. That's correct
Oh, he didn't mention he didn't mention him up front. Yeah, we had him in from last month's show
Did you release this month? Okay, yeah, I think the way it works is that when Ken gets a show-in and schedules it
It goes up on the new host even if it's like he takes months before it actually broadcasts
Correct. I didn't respond that or whatever it is we do
Did you drop on the ball on this hole? I'm constantly looking for holes here Ken and I'm missing them
What's going on
Don't forget now. No, I'm just hiding them better
Text to that story is up there and I just enjoyed the show and I enjoyed the feeling that they get out here
I'll enjoy the insignificance that just left me at the end
But only I'm not cultured like you folk
Well, I did like it. I didn't mean to imply that I didn't like it. I thought the story
um
It left me feeling very tranquil and and at ease with the world. I will say that
You know what we need to on your book review thing what you need to start up again is
Lost and Bronx new series. Oh, yeah, I know I I need some help with the the book club
I keep asking people if they want to do it and they go uh
Well, maybe yeah, like no one will commit. I can't do it alone. So I need
How about you if this slot an hour before this slot is available then we should do it on every mouse
Maybe Saturdays have been terrible for me. Um
Yeah, let me get back to you on Saturdays
um
And we can talk about after this show if you like and then
Episode number one three three seven lead
Went to Sigflop overdrive purely by accident and this and
Completely appropriate on so many levels. We just could not have picked this better
Of course, I'm coming up for months. Oh god
This thing was so cool. I just
I saw I'd come in
Um, being posted and she had mentioned it and I had really really meant to
Load up an emulator and try this thing out myself
Um before the show came out, but I just never got around to them. I'm just so busy, uh, which is always my excuse
Um, but the show was great. The demo was great. The music. I still really need to watch it because I guess the visuals are as impressive as the music
But the music was was completely fun to listen to totally great and um
Like this thing was done completely electronically completely with uh, what 16-bit audio
And this shows you why so many people don't like electronic music because these guys worked so
Hard and made this thing so well, but then so much the electronic music that you hear that gets popular
Just sounds like nobody put any effort or artistic creation into it all this thing this thing was a 10 out of 10
Well, I couldn't agree with you more absolutely brilliant
She's got a full transcript up there and there's links to a demo in the show notes
So uh if you're not being using the show notes you should do that have a look
Yeah, and the interview was top-notch as well. It was fantastic
I think we got sick club on a good day there
Okay, and I'd like to thank the following day and my bill for being smarter than I am. I'm leaving a gap in the uh in the 13
38 so yeah, it's specified 13 38 and of course dimwitted me never realized that he was jumping over the
1337
But I think your lead to then my bill
Nice
Pompeo server sounds like a north lot of work to me
I actually interested to know how this you know, the was identical
And that seemed like the place where the free software advocates were kind of going to and then that just exploded into this
Pompeo thing and everybody's got their own pods and we still have
you still have got
uh, it's
Identity is still running
And then you've got diaspora. It's all seems very odd and pregnant right now
Yeah, I'm sorry. Go ahead. Okay
No, you guys go first. I'm on my cog
Well, I was just gonna say that
I definitely think Pompeo seems like a step in the right direction. It seems to me much less of a particular implementation and much more about the very
Interoperable way of things messages across the very simple nature the protocols push the post just the json encoding of messages
I'd have to say that um, I really don't quite understand it. I used to be on identical and then
One day there wasn't anything on identical and like what am I supposed to point to the new server or what I just finally stopped you trying to use it
Yeah, I guess we have to look for Bradley wherever Bradley is that's the next big thing
I jumped on
Identica slash laconic a real late and um, I got onto
micro.fragdev.com. I think it's the server. I'm on that
Oh shoot now if you get who runs out my brain just stalled on me
Uh, I missed a shift. Sorry guys. Anyway, I jumped on their kind of late and I'm gonna stay there as long as that servers up
And you're gonna have to drag me away kicking and screaming because it's it's just the right amount of
Social networking for me it you turn it on when you want to see what's going on with the people you're following
And you turn it off when you're too busy to do that kind of stuff or when you gotta go to work and it's it's you post up
When you like and what you like and it just kind of keeps track of everything and it's it's just the right amount
So I'm staying there for a while. I think
I'm more inclined. Sorry again. Oh, sorry
I was just gonna say uh, I definitely nice to find a sweet spot like that
And um, I do like the idea of these federated protocols the pump I owe the identity of the status net
Diaspora, but I think there's just gonna be this for a while yet this keep and smash between
You know the people who want to get down a dirty with the software, you know, set up their own instance and the people
Just want a service that they can sign on to and you know talk to their friends
I'm sometimes thinking it's all getting too complicated. We just go on tiresy
And if I could figure out how logging was done then I could go back and see all the posts
Irish with all the people I want to talk to over day are in our cast planers and if they're looking for me
They'll get me an our cast plan
I'm pretty much Google plus
Newtry day most of the day
Dan is jesr server. I'm pretty sure
Okay, we move it on for jesr on here. Sorry
Yes, some episodes on that whole topic will be appreciated actually how people think it's going to go and explanations or whatever
And why I hate Google plus
To do yeah
Okay, episode 1339
Legacy technology John Culp's Victroller. This was great. This was fantastic. I loved it
Yeah, I had a chance to write to John and tell him how much I liked that
I wrote to John quite a few times about this episode. Yes. Yeah, this was wonderful. And especially
His incorporation of music into it was really a great way to share that Victroller with us
I had two at one point in my life. I had two milk cartons full of
Victrolest isle phonographs and I brought them in I had no use for them and no
tremendous interest in them and I brought them in to be
appraised to see what
What I could get for him and I never heard back from the guy and it just kind of disappeared
So I they're just gone, which is really kind of annoying
but
It was I remembered them all and and and realized only
After here in this episode kind of what a treasure had been lost
In losing these things because it was probably 40 or 50 of these these
I know they're not records, but maybe phonographs is the right word for them. Whatever it is they um
They were pre-vinyl for sure and they were a couple with chip edges that were kind of broken and the material
Shalak was what they were using
So see I thought it was some kind of a creosote derivative because it looked like the crap you break out of your chimney
If it gets all black
It was broken. It's very porous and and creosote like
Yeah, interestingly
With those 78s
About 78 rpm
You can't fit that much on a single disc because it's spinning so fast
So to get a collection of music you would have
Three four five discs that would be put together in kind of like a binder and that's where the word album comes from
Album that that collection of discs that was
Constitute of the package of music and then when they went to 33s
Just in awe of the
Just this year trivia. We've just blown away. Yeah, I am too. I am too
Or maybe I've just been disconnected. No, I think it's cool. I I always love to hear where
Words or phrases comes from I could listen to that all day. Oh, he did disconnect he meant that
Oh, okay, that's why he interrupted a hookah because everything must have gone silent on him
He he thought we were all not listening
Are you back?
Looks like Lane Deer is back. Oh, yeah, I am back
Hey, welcome back glad to have you. Thanks. We heard what you said and we all agreed with it
But uh
Hookah was just starting to say something else and you you um
You must have cut out on you when you started talking because hookah was just starting to say something about 33s
Oh, I'm sorry about that. Just when um when 33s came out instead of having multiple discs
You could get the same amount of music onto one disc, but they kept the name album
Very cool. Instead of an album being three four five six discs and album was now one disc
But that was how the word got in there
That's awesome. That's a yeah
If anyone does want to do something on uh, you know, come and use words and there are original commonly used words
I for one would be interested in that. I think that would be fast
An etymology series
If that's the word yes
Yeah, etymology is is the root of words and it's I always have fun with etymology too
That might be something cool to do like sticking at the end of a show or or something
You know not not doing a separate show on it, but if you set a short one that would be that's an idea
I might start doing there if you could send me a link to
However, you spelled etymology
Uh, then I will put you in a requested topic show notes
It's ety
Oh, land you're just posted it
Thank you. That will be an email. That will be an email with us
As opposed to entymology, which is the study of insects
Or entenminzology, which is the study of those cookies
Or eschatology, which is the study of the antelips
Right
God as a drag myself out of my cave here
Seriously feel uneducated in this
This environment
Anyway, I was in the boss as of whtm 2013 that was really really hot
That show was awesome Ken that was one of my favorite shows this month
I'd love the here I am at the at the linux festival or at the festival shows
I love them just great
Yeah, I think those are always a favorite of my two
They just give you a nice overall flavor of the the atmosphere at the different fest
Did I mention that was hot? I had completely forgotten how many people I had interviewed
Just falling over to the place with heat stuff snap in your mouse pad when you're keyed up
Me I thought was you I don't know this I have a habit of doing that and it always comes off and sounds just like that
Don't have a mouse pad
Okay deep geek and polki doing the talk geek to me newscast
Then we had power tool track racing
by mr. Gadgets
Wow
Wicked cool show. I love that one. I didn't know people raced all variants of power tools
I thought it was just belt sanders
The only thing I was thinking was god americans
What will they think of next
Like both right
It sounds perfectly normal to me to drag race power tools. Yes, I just I thought you only did it with belt sanders
Yeah, that's what I had seen previously. I think they they showed it on a episode of this old house where they did
belt sander races
But some of these things that you know, you know racing a circular saw that
That sounds like a pretty tricky proposition. I'm not sure I'd want to be in the area for that
That's the one that got me that was crazy and I'm just thinking if I was gonna race anything at all
Why not a router those things spin at like 40,000 rpm's there at least 10 times faster than all these other tools
Have you seen how close the people are to this racetrack?
Not close enough can you want to be right on top of that act?
They're right on top of it there
When I was hearing them y'all the people were it started disintegrating the the wood and people were kind of
As a safe distance back, but they're only like five
Not even two meters away from the track
They had to flick wood chips out of their eyes
Oh my god
Anyway, you know for about that Casey uh, wait a minute wait a minute. Can you where else would they stand?
We'd learn how to watch races watching you guys watch rallies
That's different. I mean, that's perfectly safe
Hey, if you're not in the middle of the road, how are you going to get a good camera shot?
Yeah, all right, well
You can go through stones in your glass house. That's all I'm saying
Too far to to yeah, but there's the you know, I will
How did he die Mrs. Falon yeah the way he wanted to hit by a belt sander or the power
Oh, okay, where meanwhile back at the point yes excellent show mr. Gadgets won't take wonder
Amazing amazing amazing amazing
Yeah guide that you can do that fantastic fantastic work
The following day to clever for your own good and oh he was right you it was you
Yes, it was me. Oh fantastic. God you have
You have nothing to do
Boys that ever true
Oh, seriously, I'm like well impressed by this. I really am
Okay, wait refresh my memory because no, I'm it you're gonna
Okay, you remember the show
16 which was on the first video. Oh, yes. This one was fantastic. I'm sorry. Yes. This was decoding your
Morse code which I was really having trouble figuring out how I was gonna do it
I had that one also in my saved folder trying to figure out how I was gonna decode it. Yes. This was awesome
I loved it bravo. Yes
Fantastic actually not not only fantastic from that point of view
But you also introduced me to a whole gold new tools
Great. I'm glad to hear it. I regarded it as sort of the
coding equivalent of a roobgoldberg device
Yeah, that's yes, definitely something like that all those different moving parts
I didn't revisit this a while later and just write up a version and see did just deal directly with the raw audio
Which was a lot simpler and more performant, but it didn't give me that whole
Visual tangible view into what was really going on in the file right and who doesn't love a roobgoldberg machine
No one. Oh, it's the ultimate hacking
You know, it's like let's analyze audio with the text editor
Yes, okay
By the way, you need to do a series on Alc
By the way and Dave Morrison's already done for a series on said
Oh, yeah, I need that one on we see the both
I know you don't want to say this
Goes with instantaneously get a series by the way. I had yeah
I had to write a said script recently and I didn't know how to put two
or more
Commands in the same line so I have it doing several lines and writing out the several files and it's a complete
Wrong way to do it and terrible so I can't wait to hear that one done correctly
I
Use all every day, but I'd never never tweaked with me that it was an actual programming them with you can put on a camera
I always use in the command line and never tweaked with me like but it was full fully
Turing complete. Oh, it's one of my favorites for just quick one-off prototypes
It's has almost as much of the nice dynamic stuff as say javascript
Where it's all the arrays are the had string keys instead of integer keys and it's just really nice to be able to whip stuff up quickly
So when when you wrote all this to decode the um
The Morse code did you did you is this all in like one script that just you hit the button and it runs and you can watch it for
Bosely output all these things or these different steps you're doing manually
Well when I originally built it this was very kind of an iterative thing where I had to get just to the next step
The said command particularly got me to the point where I could actually open the thing up in less and scroll through and see
Okay, there's silence. There's some sound. That's a dot. That's a dash and that gave me I was actually physically counting the lines to to sort of tune the
Augscript that came next
I'd see I would love to see
Like a video output of this you know up on YouTube or something and you know
We could we could link it back to your show notes because it would be great fun to watch this happen
verbosely in real time. I actually is kind of a neat idea but
I actually did the
Various different steps myself to see what you were on about. I should I should upload
I did the same exactly the same thing
We need to actually link them in the show notes
You had no idea that show was going to create so many nerd gasms did you?
No
Now she's sitting here next to me
She thought you were just wasting your time and all of us. It's like the greatest thing we've seen this month
Nerd castle. I'm sure my wife would be laughing too
Sorry, sorry, I need my best
Sorry, Kennedy. I didn't mean to take the show our rated
No
Okay, that's a series that's good because the next show is cans and he won't be able to say much
Ah, this was great
This was great to many levels for a start of uh, eight-year-old or uh, he's seven. He was he turned eight
I released it because he turned eight on his birthday
Uh, sorry, I released it for his birthday a couple of uh you have to remember dutch is not
Dutch is his first language English is his second language
So he just came on and then spoke in English about what he was doing. I'm so proud of it
Oh, yeah, that was no problem. So I was actually really impressed
That he could speak so freely and fluently
But the the idea of of you know running your your pie that way that was I loved this show. This was fantastic
This might be my favorite use for Raspberry Pi that I've heard actually done so far
All of actually with the camera module which they come out with
They have released a little program to control it and it does all this and more you can see you know for slow motion
for professional HD time-lapse stuff
This is a route using Raspberry Pi as the way to go now. They've got their
Developed the own program and set the
Saturation they blah the blah the blah the blah it's
But this is kind of handy, you know, you got any cheap old webcam and you can do this sort of stuff
I love this episode. I do kind of I am curious to ask whether this was the actual filming of it was was your idea or your sons
well, it's kind of
No, he knew you'd have to wait a day. So I said well
We get we have their use of the concept of having a camera a little rewind back
We we have like a camera that we use for taking real photos
But we got a robotized HD zoom
Koda Koda camera for them. It's not it's not it's not my wife and eyes camera. It's their camera
It can you can it's you can drop it you can put it in the water, but we tell them it's not a toy
So they're used to taking photos of stuff
So if they build a complicated train set or something then we'll say okay, you've got it for you can leave it here for
Today and tomorrow, but then we have to clean it up and before the clean it up
The take photos of it and videos of it and he goes and tells the story so there
They're used to the concept of taking pictures and we've done lots of time-lapse stuff with
You know cartoon stuff where we have their
They're a little train go up the wall and stuff
We put it on with blue tech to the wall and then take picture and then put it up again and take a picture and then
Animation so we've done lots of those things. Oh, that is just wonderful and magic shows as well like
My my daughter did well, you know the house is a mess and then
Abra Kadabra and then
We freeze as I go tidy the kitchen and everything and then
She put her back in the same place and then boom and then it's you know the houses thing
No, that's that's fabulous. I have eight-year-old twin boys and anytime they want to
Get into this this real creative stuff my son
One of built a makeshift drum set out of pots and pans and bowls and things
It's just wonderful to see that creativity. So I always try to encourage it. Yeah, that's cool
The fact that the wall really helps us, you know, the eight days somebody gives a present
It's going to take eight days for the thing to hatch
Which is like forever if you're seven-year-old
So haven't been able to go and then
Uh, oh, it hasn't done anything and then you look at all the photos and you see that it is moving and it's growing and stuff
It is you know that takes the edge off that bit
No, this is great. I a hundred percent approve of the idea how you went about it getting your kids involved
I love getting getting families involved in this stuff
It's it's terrific it and uh, you know talk about getting your kids involved and stuff
Reminds me the time we built the hovercraft just to uh to show the kids what that was about
Oh cool
Yeah, it was really simple as a little wooden disk and you hook the vacuum cleaner up on blow and it you know, it's a hovercraft but um
You know yours. I don't know the what
Film in this and and doing the stop motion animation seems like it would be harder than what I did
I'm well impressed. We'll just say that
Yeah, no, that's I think they're uh, it's they get scared they get scared a lot
But I think that thank too much sometimes they get scared a lot with a lot of stuff that they see and then
If you can explain to them how they did it and they can do it themselves on the camera then it takes a lot of the fear away from
Some of the stuff that the C and TV not that, you know, I mean we control what the C and TV and everything but
Okay, moving on 1345 Libra office
Roger list styles introduced
I need to catch up on these and and start listening in because I got to help my daughter with some school reports
And I keep going boy, I wish I'd let's pay more attention and set in front of my computer listening to him
So I think I might have to start from the beginning again
Um, you're welcome to do that bokeh, but uh, I also have
The pretty much all of this stuff written up on my website with screenshots and things. I still need to link those in
So the reason they're not linked in is my calls, but I
Yeah, it's a hooker dot com
So it should be able to find it fairly easily while the link to the website is there
So on the show notes to all of these you will find that link, but I think there's better
We you send me a list of better links, which I thought you asked for it. Yeah, I did say did it
I just didn't get time to do it
There's a fight in the ns at the moment, which is a train company
No, I think actually listening to the shows and sitting in front of the computer and doing what you say is going to work better for me
And it's uh, it's a learning style that a friend of mine introduced me to when I was trying to teach him about computers
Where I would sit there at the computer and and you know show him you click here
You do this you do that and he said you know what just get the hell out of my way
He said I can't see what you do when I don't know what you're talking about none of your words sound like English to me right now
He said so let me sit there and you tell me what to do and I'll figure it out at my speed and
This will work better for us and
Um, and that that seems to work for me and that that you know, I think is the way to go about it for some people
And that's what you've done here and I I really appreciate it and uh, I think that's the way I'm going to do it
Well, thank you
Again required uh, and I will say it from my own point of view we got
One of one of my places of employment we got a two-week training in in office, which I at the time
Way back and it went through how to use styles properly and all this all this stuff is more
um
Rehearsing repetition for review review. Thank you. Thank you my brain such as it is is now shut up
Oh, yeah, but there's a really good thing that time is there's a massive benefit if you start thinking about your document as uh separation
The format from the um
The the data from the presentations that is key so do learn the series folks stop sending me crap word documents
Oh, yeah, and and for sure if you listen to all the episodes in this series and you get good on
With with labor office and with office programs, you know
When your company comes around and says here's a two-week course. We want you to take you can sleep right through it two weeks at nap is really nothing to scoff at
Yep, you paid for
Okay, and the last show
Month even was really good. What yes, and the first-time contributor
Riley hell mix. It's not right. Yeah wicks go wicks. Riley. Riley is the second name. Where I come from Riley is the second name
Yeah, well
Anyways, different strokes for different folks. Yes. No, I've already commented on this episode brilliant brilliant episode
Yeah, basically
What to do not to be like don't be a jerk excellent. Yeah
I generally found that if you tell people they're stupid they stop listening to you. No
Yeah, I know it's hard to do all the time. I'm gonna try to implement that. I'll see how that goes your way
I did I did put in some comments about in the feedback, but it was more about the um
proprietary formats that
Honestly, three years and you know, three years and freedom is a valid argument to use when um
When we're talking about
You know somebody who's got a and the latest version of word and it doesn't open in this version of word
That on the PC that the boat six months ago and then I feel that is a good time to introduce them to the concept of software freedom and
Open formats and that sort of thing
It really does depend on who you're talking to that's the point he was making yeah exactly freezing freedom works great
With a libertarian type, you know, whereas it might not work so good with a get things done kind of a person
Yeah, I was talking at my Linux users group once and I made the comment that
99% of people who use software have no interest in ever even looking at the source code
I thought I was not going to get out of the room alive
No, it's true. It's I mean you take the analogy of a motor vehicle and many people
You know will open the open the car and replace the oil or replace the oil filter
Which at least used to be a relatively simple point to do well that that did come up cat and guy practically yelled at me
You wouldn't buy a car if the hood was welded shut. Yeah, well on the other hand
Colleague
Colleague and work you know brought this car down to the garage to a place a front bulb admittedly they were doing a for free
So yeah, why wouldn't yeah
Yeah, and that in that works with some people for sure
There are people who wouldn't buy a car with the hood welded shut there are a whole but I would argue that a majority of people
Would rather buy the car with the hood welded shut like I'm not expect to do it anything under there
And I don't want to I'll bring it in for service when it needs it and you people can figure out how to
Get at the workings. So it just depends on who you're talking to
Yep
But the ability to do so is certainly advantageous no matter who
Who you're talking to because even the person who would rather never open the hood
Certainly would appreciate that their corner garage can when the
Cost of the dealership gets to be too great
Yes, exactly. I think Stephen probably said it very well in a you know that anniversary episode
Anniversary video he did for free software foundation about
And the analogy of the plumbing in the house the plumbing is in my house. I know it's there
I never ever want to use it for when it goes wrong
I want to be of the call up somebody and know that they can fix it
Yeah, and I think really Riley's point was just if if you are trying to
Encourage someone to try linux for the first time that may not be your strongest argument absolutely couldn't agree with you more
I think there's a there's a good argument to be made that you
Attract people with what they're interested in and then once you've sucked them in you can
Suppose them to some of the other fine featured. You know what's
Oh, by the way, I never said this before I don't think I went on to the local library and got
And asked them about magazines subscriptions for linux and they
They got the Dutch linux magazine to put it on the stand and then they put it in a form and you know
Do people find this interesting? Yes or no and a few people did and now it's there every week and every month
I go in to check and make sure that it's no probably doggy-eared and stuff and it has been read the the thing is
Freed apart. So
Oh, sorry the reason I'm bringing this up is promoting linux. That's one way the other way that I've promoted linux
Has been to have a stack of raspberry pies and just to loan them out to people but
The best way to and Riley put his finger on this is just to use it inward
Not shove it down people's trots with just go can somebody
Get this for me. You do you have a day you have a day. Yeah, you're hoping to set arc grip and you have the answer for them
That's the most powerful time
What was the
It might have been only an online magazine
I'm not sure but the one that that put hacker public radio on is the great linux podcast
linux format that was that's a UK magazine from the talks radar folks. Oh right on. Okay. You got to sneak that onto their shelf
What my hobby is to go into news agents and take the linux magazines from the back side and put them on the front
Right on. Well, if you can find a copy of that one the the hard copy just stick that one on the rack at the library
I mean no, no, we have that no, I have that here. I'm not I'm not losing that I had to
track down that it was very expensive here
Okay, I think that was about us
For the shows shows
So moving
Not simply an hour and 12 minutes
We some updated stats seven we've been running for seven years six months 22 days
As of time of recording
Running us hpr five years three months 29 days total number of shows is 16,000 and 85
100 divided by 10 yes
1600 and last
1600
202 hpr
host there are
Next free slot is in 13 days as of recording
There are nine hosts in the queue and there are 12 shows and queue last month's download figures or we put that that that that that that that that
75,777
74
All that information is available in is zip up RNA
Z2
That's everything there is just astonishing to me the number especially the total number of shows and the number of downloads that those are astonishing numbers
So we talked about that last month and then I had a chance to chat with
Dan washkoe about it that the average a last month at any rate. I haven't found into this month
The average show had
Downloads and I
Dan and I were chatting about you get the feeling sometimes well. I interact with maybe 20 people
Total yeah shows I do and so I think you know
I'm just doing this for a few friends and it's no on average. You're doing this for two thousand six hundred people
That's 30 interesting thought that's that's an average of 3600 and eight downloads per show
Oh, that's okay. Yep
Yeah, it's and it goes up and it goes down and the longer your show is in the queue the more hits it's going to get
All the stats are there in the report of however you want to match it if there's somebody good with charts and stuff
You can even get the role data there. I'm not hiding it from anybody
Yeah, it's just it's it's fascinating and it feels uh
Yeah, like you were just saying it you feel like it's a small community because there's only 20 or so people
You know discussing things on the news
on the mailing list or
You know pop into other podcasts or you know in real life
But that many people it's astonishing being part of something so big and
I mean, I got to assume it's so well loved how often do you hear a negative comment?
Well, I guess I guess we do encourage people if you don't like it
Delegious we want to the next show. There's always going to be something
you know
And that's the most you make it to people some of the time more and people more of the time but not all of the people all the time
That's just being realistic, but yeah, and that's the most negative thing I've ever heard said about HPR
Yeah, but I'm saying is that's the negative thing I've heard about HPR is just the flood of shows that come in
So what I'm saying people is if you don't like them delete and remove all oh no, no, no
I disagree because I have
Twice in as many months now. I've gotten so backed up on
Every podcast, but including HPR where you know, I'd be two or three weeks behind on them and then
The flood of shows hit me and
Take my advice here. Just bay then it. They're so great to hear them one after the other after the other
They and it's just good show after good show. It's it's overwhelming and it's really great
Cool, okay, that's the report. I still think it's amazing like the the forever show
You're talking to more people than you know the biggest room of any Linux Fest or any hacker Fest ever, you know
Any last month
I didn't remove that. Oh, yes, the bad news talking to me news
Talk to me as a general newscast is now
God and email from deep kick and he published talking to me news number one or three in and he just missed last month's
Community news, unfortunately, so it's only now that the message is getting out and the message still won't be getting out for another month
because of the
Delay that we have in
The first company served queuing system
Which I want to talk to you about in a minute
And with your permission. I know the show will get a bit long, but I'd like to put that audio in after this show
Tag it on sure
Yeah, don't see why not
I'm I'm
Sad to see it go and this is the second time I felt this because we thought it was going to die once before which is when deep geek
um, you know, put out the call for help and
You know, I was one of the people who jumped up to help that because I do like talking to me news. I love it
And it's I'm sad to see it end as a podcast, but on the upside he is going to continue to do
um, the tech only
Version of it for hacker public radio once a month, so it's there is a silver lining to the cloud there
Yeah, I got quite a lot of my alternatives of the news from
Deep geek there
I think he
He's very pleased
You know, the reason is that his job is just taking up a lot more of his time and
Anyone who's ever listened to that
Know is that there's a hell of a lot of research that he puts into it
Uh, to find those stories and and source them and all of that so it's
It's understandable that if he's short of time he's got to make some adjustments
I think I'd like to get his rss list. Yeah, yeah
Well, he mentions and and you know listeners will hear it in the part that you tech uh tech in there can
He mentions how it was taking him like four hours every Saturday to compile these things
And I'm astonished that he could do it so quickly. I yeah, I have a hard time believing that that's the full number of of time that he put into that
Okay, um, well yes
Everything must come to an end and uh, I
I'm sad to see this one go. It was one of my I needed to be in a proper frame of mind to listen to it
It wasn't something I would listen to first thing in the morning
But it was definitely something that wouldn't be waiting around very long in my
Q. Yeah, same here. I I always kind of had to listen to it in the afternoon
Yes, but that said uh, he's not going anywhere so uh, that's that's good news
Okay, so some lighter stuff uh on the mailing list and just general mails to the admins
We had the is this spam or not um and I don't know if a lot of people know that you can put comments on the
website
Which is one of the things I wanted to rid of as soon as possible
And not commenting obviously don't go freaking out, but uh
doing the commenting in a
uh
And then other way that because the commenting system that's there is a bit old and I've been trying to get talk to the guy to get a newer version
but
Yeah, it's not exactly the way I wanted it to go but there are comments so people do occasionally make comments and sometimes
Most of the time that comment is spam
But yeah, I'm I'm seeing the same thing. I've got the
Several websites of my own that I manage and I'd say the ratio is about 20 or 30 to one between spam and
Actual comments and that's just the stuff that gets through the filter that I've already got on there
Yeah, exactly this guy was pretty good because he uh he had at least read the show, you know
And it was pretty intense, you know, this sweetie or the Switzerland keyboard that really helped me out and dudes
You know look at the link for and then there's a link in they you know to his whatever thing he's selling
So you have to admire the guy whoever it was
That's right. It's a bummer. Yeah, I mean it was obviously a human. There was no way this could be automated
This was some human being paid to do it. I
I don't know it's the spam is a real bummer because you know right on the web page
That's that's my favorite place to get comments on my episodes
I don't know if if anybody else feels that way, but um
Yeah, that's that's certainly the way I feel about it. I've always been a big
Proponent of the comments. I will bear that in mind
Then there was a mumble HPR meeting about banners stickers his pure tables at vans like Linux fest did that go ahead
Yeah, yeah, it happened. It was recorded and it should be posted as a show at some point
I didn't do the recording of that myself, but I was there. There were two of us. Was it good in in pajamas?
Super
It was good. I enjoyed it. Um, I don't know if we
You know
Nailed everything down, but we we got some uh some decisions made I think
Cool. Sorry I couldn't make it all the time for me
Yeah, no problem. It's the basic thing is that you know, uh
I have to accept responsibility for losing the banner the beautiful banner that um
That got made up for HPR. No, yes, it's on my fault. Uh, I shipped it to the wrong address. Oh
Yeah, do you have any idea what the right wrong the right the wrong address walls? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I um
I shipped it to his old house and
I don't I don't know. Maybe I just didn't see that he had changed his address and he had moved
But the the people who bought his house have an ice HPR banner now, I guess and he gone he tried contact in them about it
And never got any response from them and it it stinks, but
So I'm going to replace the banner and on the upside
We found a I don't know if I'll say a better stand, but certainly a lighter one because that banner cost a fortune to ship
But with the lighter stand, we should be able to ship it back and forth
pretty inexpensively
Yeah, I just shipped the uh
European one over to the UK and I was thinking
How you know, it was nearly half the price of the thing itself to ship it to the UK
Might have been more sense to just buy one for the UK and then uh have one here
Yeah, yeah, well, we found a stand that's um made out of aluminum tubing and it's like 11 bucks on Amazon
So and it weighs like a pound and a half maybe as compared to the other one was probably eight or ten pounds for the the steel base
Adi was um
L.U. Miminimium for our even more foreign audiences
There was a request
Help with medical units if anyone knows about what type of units are used from as
Medical dosages. They should get in touch with
Thank you very much
Yeah, I said he the one that's been doing the math series correct. Yes, but him
Yeah, I can't pronounce people's names at the top. This was a running theme. You people should know this by now
There was a fix for the hb our calendar page. That's the render correctly. So thanks for
Uh, sending that in and then there's uh, uh, I have a topic here about notters. Can you remember what that was?
I think that was on the topic of possibly archiving the mailing list to
Uh, G-Mate. Ah, yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Ah, yes, which I need to do
But I can't make that decision because the hb our community news from last month where we discuss this hasn't been released yet
And I've got no feedback
Yes, which is well, which I'll bring up is should we return to
The reserved slot during this month also our coming month. I can't remember one of the episodes
It was a problem with the audio and the audio was sent in and when I transcoated no pull to the person and I'm not
Bringing this up to to bring out any calls despite my
What were sarcastic remarks at the beginning about those grading episodes nobody grades episodes except the host
because uh, I think
For me, that's you tend to be the most critical about your own shows and if anything we're
People that have been overly supportive about some of the crappy shows that I put up
But anyway, get back to the point which I've now forgotten um when that went out
There was audio silence and now because we have an RSS feed of the future
People might have received that so I used a trick that we have in the database to set the um
To shows to valid or not, but I don't have no idea why it's in the database there
But a lot of the queries it'll stop a going into the RSS feed if it's set to um zero
So um then Dave Morris who has dropped off I think by connection
mentioned that it was still coming up on the calendar page
So then I put in and I think on the calendar page to say it was uh, it was
Um unavailable was the word and then I was thinking well
Therefore we could put in a reservation system
There where there was no audio, but we could reserve the show um
Which means we could put in a reservation at the beginning of the month or next month or whatever for
Community news so that's community news will be coming out on time or any other significant events that would be deemed
Worthy of that by the HPR Parliament, which is the mailing list
Um
Yeah, I mean I suppose you want to discuss that on the mailing list um
That too, yeah, but also um uh
You know in my initial reaction is uh first come first served is a whole lot less work
Yeah, my first thought about I usually keep quiet on these things because I don't
Help implement them. So my my first thought as well if you think that's easy enough to do go for it
I mean the code the code is now implemented by the simple fact that's occasionally we're going to have problems where you know
I noticed the audio or something is incorrect and I'll put I'll have to freeze the show so it's not going down to people
So that's kind of there, but there are other times where during the year where we might want to um
Reserve a particular days for example
Yeah um
I I think if somebody is willing to commit to something that far ahead
Uh
I don't I don't see a problem with that as long as people come through with their shows and and you know
Don't miss it. Maybe we could uh
Oh, I don't know now and now I'm been overcomplicated. So I'll just stop
Well here's here's what I was thinking was the community news is always coming out every month
I mean it always is we have backup shows if the shows don't turn up
We'll just simply put the backup shows in and if somebody requests that particular day
Um that overrules the
The reservation basically
That's not really all that different from what we have what we had because
When we switched over to first come first serve you still could request a specific
Uh show an episode number out into the future. So you're just saying now it's a date
That the system turns into that show number
Yeah, well you could you could you can still post a show anytime
But you need to have a physical audio file available to you
Uh to attach to that so um for example if you wanted to record uh you know
The first man landing on Mars and you wanted to release a special episode on the day
There were the first woman let's say landing on Mars and you wanted to do that the day they arrived
You would need to have the audio ready prior to that event in the queue and queueed up
So the people uh could download the MP3 or the audio files that's associated with that and the in the future RSS feed
You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah I do
So the suggestion would be to create sort of a tentative reserved date
Um for shows that do not yet have the audio completed
Correct, yeah
So it wouldn't be in the feed because there's no show recorded as yet
But we're we're putting a kind of posted beside it to say hey guys
If nobody minds. I'd like to use this day
You know
Can you can do it if you want but it strikes me that we're going back down the road that led to a horrendously complicated system
Yeah previously
I know but then I'm also looking at this from a from our community news point of view
We're three months behind is it
When we do when we normally do a community news we're month behind anyway
And then but some people get to listen to it
It's even when it was coming out on the first of the month
I quite often would only get feedback two or three weeks later
So then for the decision making arm of um this show
Where there are topics that are of interest to the community and the community not just limited to the people who bothered to join the mailing list
um
You know something significant like we're going to say I don't know we're going to change
Put in the put in the mailing list out into the public
That is something that everybody
Uh who listens to this show needs to be aware of because the were people on the mailing list previous to that
Who are now no longer on the mailing list and there
Those people's
Voices need to be heard or at least they need to be given an opportunity to be able to give a comment on that
So now that decision has been recorded a month ago
It'll be released during this week and then
There'll be no comments back and that for at least another three or four weeks
So our you know comments will be coming back and this is under discussion that we've already had on the mailing list now up to three months ago
So I think the delay is kind of unacceptable from that point of view
Yeah
Specific use case certainly does make a strong enough argument for having the reserve slots
um
It sounds like maybe
Uh
What a hookah was saying about it leading down the wrong road um
Could be cut off by just saying okay, we only do it for the community news, but then
You know the question is is that fair is is that what we want to do
Yeah, and then we have since we did this we haven't
I spoke to deep geek about okay, would this be something are you stopping the show
Uh because of the fact that we're not putting the show out on a regular basis
And I said no it was because of the work but you found it interesting that I'd ask
But if he was doing a regular new show and it's a once a month deal then yeah, maybe we should have a slot for that
And then you go back to maybe Dan should have his Tuesday slot as well
But Dan not so much because if Dan starts putting the shows into the queue he can
They're there and
They're available, you know, and he coming to them and they come out on the particular day
But that said since we stopped doing that and I know his life got
Since we switched we haven't had a a Linux in the shell episode
I'm a bit worried that it might be because
Because he hasn't felt the pressure that oh there's a slot coming off
Well, I talked to him and that wasn't he didn't say anything of the sort about that it was like a lot of us
He just you know, he's got a growing family
Just had another child recently
And summer and family activities and all of that he's
And he said you know, yeah, I'm gonna get back and and start recording some more shows when things settle down
So
You know, that's the way he explained it to me
Yeah, okay, so for Dan show, I think yeah, the normal queue would work for community news
I really am being a bit frustrated because we need to start planning for stuff like the upcoming
If we're if we're planning on doing the December
You know 24-hour thing and the new year's Eve show for starting planning for that then
People kind of need to be hearing about it on the community news coming up to that event sure
Yeah, yeah, you got a point. Yeah, I'm not saying I'm opposed to it Ken
I
My sense is we got into a situation before where it was very complicated and it was all falling on you
And over the you know over a two-year period it seemed every other month it was
Well, I've thought about it some more that didn't quite work
Let's jigger it a little bit this way and we'll make this little change and in a couple of months later
Yeah, it's still not quite right. Let's do this other change and it
It seemed like it was creating a lot of work for you frankly
Yeah, it was and what was worse was that nobody was understanding the queue this I think
The first in first-out system people posting themselves is really a godsend as far as the model work. I've had to do
Yeah, everything a lot of the stuff is automated shows just come out people have the choice of when they do their days
So all I'm thinking of doing with this is in the drop-down list
Uh, you don't you don't this the first Monday of the month is just kind of excluded from the drop-down list
If you put it in your in your text file, but you want that date then it'll come out in that date
I might email you to go well, you know, that's kind of the community news, but if you want to do it then you do it
All right
I think that makes sense to me and as in terms of of fairness
I think the only place or the the point at which we're going to start to run into issues of fairness is where we have
Reserved shows that occur more frequently than the average queue length which I don't think we're in danger of that with the community news by any means
Yeah, that's a good point. It's a good bit of analysis
I was trying to put my finger on what what that might be, but I think you I think you nailed it
And I think one thing that they that has happened with the graphs and stuff of you know
When the shows are coming in and going out people are getting a lot more a lot more transparency actually
I'm what's going on. That's my homepage now. I hit that in the morning just to see you. Let's go now
Which let's talk about it right now. There are 13 days to wait until the next queue and what you see is a very much a shark fin type
How way it operates we tend to get a burst of shows and then drops off
Get another one drops off so it's off. Yeah, so it's gone down from a massive peak after the summer where we got a lot of shows in
to
What I would say was a bit of a bit of a I'm not like I'm not actually worried as yet
because this tends to happen and then over the
Autumn period fall period as close you guys would say it's people are recording their second show for you know that quarter
There are plenty of slots you don't have to wait too long the two it's a two week the time right now
When you brought up lag it made me think of one thing and I it's don't mean to derail anything but on the mailing list we discussed the
April 1st show for next year and people said they wanted to participate in that and I was gonna
coordinate those submissions
I haven't got any of those yet and considering the
lag time as to when this particular recording is going to be posted it'll probably be
pretty close to that deadline
For me to get all those things so I can still get them edited
So if you were going to participate in that if you're on the mailing list and know what I'm talking about
Please get me that file to that to that and get that record do your bit of recording and get me that file please
I'll see if I can get that done this weekend
I did not forget it I promise you nor did I know I don't think anybody forgot it
I just you know and the deadline isn't
Isn't
Looming as of the day that we're recording this but it may be a lot closer to looming as of the day that this gets aired
So just a reminder to people exactly. So are we doing a new year show?
Yeah, hell yes, I'd still like to yeah
I've always looked forward to it. I was looking through the logs
And I was wondering you know what the average was and they take download around there is about four times the normal
uh for any particular show it's
Massively peace download
I think it's just always kind of a just a very enjoyable show just for the the sheer breadth of the topics and just a chance to
Hear the host that you grow to love over the year attracting with one another breath of topics
All they talked about was feckin food food food food food food food this type food that type of food
Yeah, I was gonna say this last year there there's need to be only four topics and we just went around and around of them
Oh god, what was the the fellow who was drunk kept bringing up the same thing over and off
Uh two windows in Nautilus that oh, thank you. That was that was hilarious actually
I think that's the real draw of the New Year's Eve show. Yeah
Do you really what see in someone go off like that
He wasn't a bad
Okay, so we're learning here's Ken gets worse on a regular basis. I have been I have been that soldier. Have I say yeah
Oh, I've been that guy too. I did it. I did it once on another podcast and I listened back to it
And I was so embarrassed I swore I wouldn't do it anymore
Yes, and I heard that podcast I found it very enjoyable
Gee, thanks
Anyway, um, yes, can I take a moment here to talk about some plans I have
Uh, first of all the labor office series is gonna continue
Uh, this could continue for several years. All right, uh, what I plan to do is I've got uh, uh, I want to talk about page layout
And then as part of that get into frame styles and page styles and at that point
I'm going to temporarily drop writer and move on to calc
Because there's a ton of stuff there and I know some people have been waiting for that to come around
Woo-hoo spreadsheets. Yeah, you know, it's a useful tool and uh, but the other thing
Aside from one or two one-offs that I'm probably just gonna record and throw up there
Uh, I want to start a
Different series that wouldn't be just me, but here's what I'm thinking
It started Ken was talking to me last month about
In encrypting email and you know how Ken is you talk about anything and he says you should do a show on that
so I started thinking about it and
I've got some ideas and I'm getting together with some folks from the Sunday morning Linux review
Who also were interested in this and and so we're working on
Trying to get some people going and figuring out how all of this stuff works
So I want to start something out of you call it security or privacy or you know
I did a scan through the series names. I did not see encryption privacy or security in my quick scan of titles
Uh as series titles anyway
It sounds like it sounds like
Something you might want to start off as like a Saturday session because I haven't I don't think we've had a Saturday session in a while
But those were those were terrific
How um, you know you come in there with a planned topic and you know one or two interested people would show up
And then maybe another one or two people who just want to be part of the community show up and that sounds like that kind of thing
Um
Yeah, I can also be that I think
It could then it becomes a schedule thing of whether I can do those Saturdays, but
Yeah, I'm doing one a month now for the community news. So it's probably doable, but
Uh, you know, I was thinking that it would be nice to have a kind of a structured
Uh, you know, like I do with the labor office to you know step by step here's how you think about it
Here's how these things work
Uh first and and I would I would think that I would be aiming at least at
People who are not experts that need a little bit of hand holding through it
But I'd like to get other people involved because I don't know all of this stuff
There's some things I do know and some things I'm learning but uh, there's a lot of smart people in the HPR community
That could contribute shows to this I have been thinking about this topic
Doing something similar myself
I have the outline of at least two or three shows
One of two of which are technical and one of which is
In fact, the actual reverse of being technical
Uh, and I would very much like to add them to this series. So when you come up with a name
Give me a shout. Okay
And I have a show request too. I I did a show I don't know feels like a while back now that I did it um
An intro to editing the open street map uh using using pot latch was there online editor
And oh, it's great. Oh, thank you
They've since added a new editor. It's it's now their default and the one they're suggesting um, I forget what it's called
But I was gonna was gonna do another show on their new editor, but I have used the editor. I can't use it
I can't stand it. I can't take it. So I'm not the guy to do
The next is the next episode in that series of open street map editing because I just can't stand their new editor
So if anyone does use that editor and likes it and feels they could do a show on it
I for one would appreciate it at least just to keep it going. I think I'm gonna stick with the old editor as long as I can but um
It you know, but just for for the community. I think it would be very
I think it would be as beneficial if not more beneficial than the show that I did
But I'm just I'm not the guy who can do it
Two things about that is one yes
Can you remember to email me a reminder otherwise I will continue to get to put this in a shot
And secondly, can you please do a screencast of your episode?
Oh, I don't know. I think a screencast would ruin it. I think it was more about
The people doing it on their own, but okay, I'll see what I can do
Well, just a few screenshots or something would would help me because I'm silly that way. Oh, yeah, sure
Okay, I'll see what I can do
Okay, other things we have the audio quality manifesto again
again refers to
Yeah, nobody is grading your shows
um if
A lot of people are saying record and audacity or record and whatever to be honest
I found the easiest thing to do myself was just record on a separate device. I normally record on my zoom h2
Which is a really nice
Piece of kit that I invested in but you can record on your mobile phone on a sense of clip or
Any external device and then you have a wildfire and then bring that into audacity and do whatever you need to do
So keep it simple as well
I think what door was talking about was doing complicated double-enders and trying to improve the other quality of tilts
Which yeah, I think pushed to talk would probably do an awful lot for the other quality of tilts in my own opinion
but
But if you're interested and you have a topic here in H4R
Please don't let pick up the crappier speaker that you have in your house
No, pick up the best speaker you have or best microphone you have in your house
Always try to strive for the best audio quality that you can get
I've heard you to record the moment rather than you know
procrastinating from days and days and days and never
And then I'll send in a show because you don't have the precise microphone that's going to make you sound perfect
Yeah
I can see that
Caption under my own picture
Yes, yes, I believe you can that's I think it was from you that I learned the word procrastination
That may well be I'm sorry about that folks
Okay, the other thing is if you're there is no rule of thumb about using bedding music
Don't use bedding music
Haha here you're free to edit the shows as you like
With no preference from anybody at all
um
So but if you are going to use music in your podcast make sure that you have written permission to do so or
The license
License is a creative commons license
Okay
Yeah, I just I'm not saying
Just moving on from that whole topic
Well, I I will say that if you use bedding music that's your own decision to do so artistically and
You know, I think everybody understands that and respects that but keep in mind that you're
Definitely going to lose listeners by using it because a lot of people
um
Listen to that listen to the episodes at high speed and the music doesn't sound right and it's it's too abrasive
And they just won't listen to that episode
There's also other people who have hearing impairments
Who can't uh decipher your words through the music. It's it's just too muddy
Um for someone with it with a hearing impairment and those are the two comments that I've heard people say
Uh, so so I can I can you know say with a certainty
You you will lose at least those two categories of listeners and it makes me think you will have more listeners
If you don't use music, but it is still an artistic choice and you know, they're that's that's totally up to you and
More freedom and more power to you
It also completely breaks things for people who are trying to programmatically decipher your Morse code
Yeah, if you if you put bedding music behind Morse code, you're just a bastard
Um that said I'm not pointing finger anybody
Um
There have been several people who have done us right and by the way remember as well that your audio will be edited and mononized and
I'm trying we were trying to
Normalize the audio and all that sort of high-tech
Just transcoded sorry transcoded. We will not edit it. Well, yeah, we normalize the audience
I think we had a removed silence thing, but no, maybe I've taken that out
Thank you for that point. We don't edit the shows. We don't review the shows they go out as is
They are we process the audio. That's the word I was trying to use. We do process the audio if you want your audio coming out in
In where you're you're actually playing music or your which is fine or your
Want stereo for annaries then be sure to put that into the show notes or contact me directly and that's perfectly allowed as well
All right
And one last thing is if you're uploading stuff to the FTP server don't
Just don't put into the home directory all your files if there are multiple files put it into a zip file in the in the home directory
Just use a to Z over blur case and zero R9 don't use commas spaces
Whatever just annoys me. Thank you
And did formats are ISO 8601. Thank you very much tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of
hacker hacker public radio
Join us now and share the software
You be free hackers you be free
Join us now and share the software
You'll be free hackers you'll be free
For this can get piles of money that is true hackers that is true
Oh
They cannot help their neighbors that's not good hackers. That's not good
When we have enough free software
Our call hackers at our call
Oh, we don't kick out those dirty licenses ever more hackers ever more
Join us now and share the software you'll be free hackers you'll be free
Hey
Hey
This is DeepGeek. Welcome to TalkGeek to me, a voice of the resistance.
You are listening to TGTM News No. 103 Record for Sunday, September the 8th, 2013.
Here are the vials to fix for this program. Your feedback matters to me. Please send your
comments to DG at deepgeek.us. The web page for this program is at www.talkGeekToMe.us.
You can subscribe to me on Identica as the username DeepGeek or you could follow me on Twitter.
My username there is DGTGM as a deepgeek talk geek to me.
Hey, it's DeepGeek and this is a special show. Why? Because the time has come to close.
DGTM News as a general newscast. Yes, changes the only constant in this world and sometimes that involves moving on.
But if you consider yourself a fan of DGTM News, don't fret. I will still be podcasting. I'm not going away.
Watch from McLuhan once said the medium is the message. In terms of podcasting, that means you want to be heard.
I'm not making a retirement announcement but my life has recently changed and it impacts you dear listener and so far as this show goes.
A few months ago there were some changes at my day job. These include more weekend hours and more travel.
Free time is now in short supply but more on that later. Let's do this in a logical order.
Let's examine why I stored this newscast, how I put it together, why did for so long and why it is now time to end it.
After that I'll tell you about the show's new format going into the future.
All my life I knew there was something wrong with American media, something myopic about it.
When I was a teenager a neighbor named Greg Derso taught me how to use a shortwave radio to get the news.
Throughout my 20s I learned to combat media bias by taking in a variety of sources in order to find some balance.
You see you can't know what's going on without hearing multiple sides to an issue in the old days that meant finding perspectives from different countries using the media sources and sources available.
The internet makes this search easier and more comprehensive today but back then it was difficult.
Several right ring initiatives from the Reagan administration led to narrowing viewpoints within our US news media.
Three years ago I came to realize that the amount of effort I put in to keeping myself informed could not reasonably be expected of all my fellow citizens.
I therefore embarked on a form of journalism where I would take the news of others and make a selection for my own listeners.
The idea was not to replace traditional news but rather to make a compendium of alternate news.
So as to supplement traditional news sources.
To be that other perspective I sought via a shortwave international radio as a child.
Reading and recording the audio presentation of stories was very rewarding but better content always came from increasing the total amount of news stories scanned, giving it a more cream of the crop aspect.
Eventually it would take me about four hours to do this process for episode and this is the reason why work now conflicts with TGTM News.
In the end my choices were either to lower the quality of the show, quit working or stop the project entirely.
I think that stopping is the right choice.
TGTM News always had a small following which is something I did not expect.
I eventually understood that many people were attached to what Robert Anton Wilson called a reality tunnel.
This means that many people only want reinforcement of what they already think.
Reality is not an objective thing in a sense is plastic and for many people getting along means thinking like others.
They simply won't process any viewpoint contrary to the mainstream.
Don't confuse this with people saying that they are independent.
For many this is just another example of the same kind of reinforcement.
They find others who self-identifying this way and reject challenging viewpoints in the same manner as the wider majority.
It takes a certain kind of person to be truly independent and that doesn't involve avoiding challenging viewpoints.
In this sense TGTM News impacted hundreds of listeners in a profound way.
I bring this up to make a broader statement about truth.
People who actually want to know what was going on found out that they were not alone.
They discovered this while they listened to TGTM on their earbuds in a cubicle or on a call audio player or while shoveling snow.
They heard alternate viewpoints and knew that others out there were passionate about the truth
and they came to know their own view of it a bit better by being exposed to challenging viewpoints.
So why did I keep it up for so long?
When the effort involved in putting a show together became greater and greater?
Mainly because of people like you dear listener.
You're at Downloads revealed that there are others out there like me passionate for the truth.
Oh, there were additional benefits of doing the show of course.
Augmented of people in my everyday life who got their views exclusively from TV or radio could not hold a candle to me after I read all those different viewpoints.
I also got to meet and talk with an amazing variety of people through my reputation as the Ultra-Indy News Geek.
I consider myself blessed by the interviews I conducted but I consider myself particularly blessed to have interviewed two people I consider so significant to TGTM News.
Maggie McNeil and Brigida Hansdott here.
Finding all the news required for the show was a part-time job in and of itself.
I hit the wall of time before and three special podcastes came to the rescue, Dan Waschko, Bobobax and Pok.
You might think that their recording of the tech portions of the show were small efforts but saved me vital hours of recording and editing every week.
I owe them a special thanks as partners on the TGTM News team, just as I owe thanks to all the others who made it possible, the people who wrote the articles I read, who published them, and gave me permission to use them in one way or another.
Those whom I've interviewed, those who've record bumpers or let me bounce ideas off of them, TGTM News comes to a rest as a true group effort when I will always be proud of.
And always remember that what I did need not be unique, you can do it too, just challenge your perspectives.
TV and radio, Republican and Democrats, they are all owned by the 1% seek out something different to add to that multi-headed but ultimately singular perspective and you will have a better understanding of the world.
I will continue podcasting, rest assured, starring next month I will be doing one tech show per week for Hacker Public Radio at hackerpublicraer.org.
As for my own site, I will maintain my relationship with you dear listeners, with a monthly opinion piece, or by bringing you an interview.
That will be the new talk geek to me. I hope you continue to invite me into your ears and minds in the future, I'll be at less often.
Thanks for listening, and I'll talk to you soon.
Thank you for listening to this episode of talk geek to me.
Here are the vials statistics for this program.
Your feedback matters to me, please send your comments to DG at deepgeek.us.
The webpage for this program is at www.talkgeekto me.us.
You can subscribe to me on identical as the username deepgeek or you could follow me on Twitter.
My username there is DGTGM, as in deepgeek talk geek to me.
This episode of talk geek to me is licensed under the creative comments attribution share like 3.0 on poor license.
This license allows commercial reuse of the work, as well as allowing you to modify the work, so long as you share alike the same rights you have received under this license.
Thank you for listening to this episode of talk geek to me.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener by yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dark pound and the economical computer cloud.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are crowd- Exponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments attribution share alike 3.0 license.
