Episode: 1184
Title: HPR1184: Installing Linux without a monitor
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1184/hpr1184.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 21:16:26

---

Hi everyone, this is CLAT2 and this is Hacker Public Radio. In this episode you're going
to hear POKY, you know POKY, POKY being led through a, at the install of SONAR Linux,
by SONAR's creator, Jonathan. So SONAR is a Linux distribution designed specifically
for blind users, and in many ways, other users as well, with accessibility needs that just
aren't usually met by an operating system by default. So this is a very cool project. You've
probably already heard about it, so I'm not going to dwell on it, and besides POKY and
Jonathan will discuss it a little bit in what you're about to hear. But I did want to
kind of comment on this episode in general, because it's a topic that is kind of important
I think. It's certainly important to me, but I have a unique, maybe a slightly unique position
in all of this, because I know someone who is blind. I was raised by a blind person. So
it's kind of one of those issues that, yeah, it would be important to me, right? Obviously
it's important. I've got that blind person in my life, and I've got other, I've got
a friend. I've had friends who are blind. I've got friends of friends who are blind. It's
kind of, it's easy for me, as like Klaatu, who had this life experience, to be interested
in this kind of topic. OK, to that end, I want to talk a little bit about, and this is
going to sound like a little bit of a digression, but there's a point here. I want to talk a
little bit about something that I noticed myself, just a couple of weeks ago, I was invited
out to a basketball game of all things at a high school. Someone's younger sister was
playing in a basketball game. Normally, I would not be caught dead at a basketball game.
Please don't misunderstand me. This was an exception I made, because the person inviting
me is a very cute girl that I wanted to hang out with. So we go to this basketball game
to watch this sport, and it turned out that the two teams involved was one one high school
student, group, one high school team versus another high school team, and one of those
high school teams was the high school team of a school for deaf teenagers. And so it
was very interesting to me, because I was watching these people do sports, thinking how
cool would it be if I finally got around to that one thing on my, that's always been
on my list, to go learn sign language, because I know, I know a couple of people who know
sign language, and it always seemed like a really good skill to have. But as usual,
you kind of fall back into your excuse mode, and you're like, well, if I learned sign
language, who would I even talk to? I don't know anyone who's deaf, who would I practice
with? It wouldn't be very easy to really become conversational with it. And so you deprioritize
it almost as quickly as you are inspired to make it a priority. And then I kind of thought
about that for the next week or two, and I thought, well, it might not be that if I learned
sign language, instead of just having this skill that I would never possibly be able
to use, what if in fact I had this skill that would then make it possible and maybe even
inspire me to go meet more deaf people? Might that be the case? And in fact, I think it
would be. I think that if I finally got around to learning sign language, I might actually
be able to, I mean, now I could talk to deaf people, I could meet deaf people. Even if
you're sitting there, or if I'm sitting here, and we're thinking, well, this computer
project sonar is really important. We recognize that we're modern progressive people and we want
people to be able to use computers. That's why a lot of us are using Linux. It's kind of
an important topic for us. So in spirit, we support it. But at the same time, it's not a
huge priority for me. I'm not going to put money towards the Indiegogo project for sonar
to get off the ground, which by the way is located at indiegogo.com slash sonar because
it's not something that I could really use. I'm not blind. I'm not deaf. I don't know
any blind people. I don't know any deaf people. So it's something for other people. But
now think about it. If you think about what would happen if you learned more about sonar,
if you supported sonar and maybe even downloaded a disk image and installed it yourself like
Poki is doing here while Poki is cheating because he has Jonathan helping him. But what
have you did that? And you learned a lot about accessibility. And you learned why audible
tones are annoying for you if you are deaf because you can't hear them and flashing
screen giving you notifications a lot better. Or think about what would happen if you're
sub blind. You have no monitor. It certainly does help to have that screen reader on all
the time. That sort of thing. Think about how many people you could probably meet later
on in life and be able to talk to them in ways that are intelligent about computer usage.
You could tell them, hey, look, I'm not blind. I'm not deaf. I'm not whatever. But this
great distribution called sonar and you can install it from the very moment that you download
it and burn it to a disk. You can pop it into your computer and install it and then start
using it. And it will it will meet all of your needs or it will meet these needs and you might
still have to tweak this or that. That's a whole new level of kind of guruism that we kind of
aren't ignoring. I think at least a lot of us are ignoring. I know I certainly am. I'm ignoring
based on the fact that I'm not blind. I'm not deaf. I don't need this right now. So I'm not going
to bother with it. But who knows, maybe we do need it right now. Maybe it's something that we
should look into. Maybe we'll meet someone really cool later on because we know this kind of
stuff. Maybe we'll be able to talk more intelligently about it later on. If this, if any of this
interests you or kind of makes you think that some of this is more important than you might think,
you know, more important than just have you got someone who's blind in your life. Maybe you don't
need that in order to to prioritize the Sonar Linux project. So think about that. If you want,
also listen to the rest of this episode because Pokey and Jonathan are going to embark on a
journey to get this thing installed. Let's see how it goes. And remember to stop by IndigoGo.com
slash Sonar to show some support. And yes, by support I mean cold hard cash. IndigoGo.com slash
Sonar. All right. You ready to start then? Yes. Okay. I'm going to switch monitors now. So
there'll be the point and no return. Did you already boot the the disk up or you haven't even done
that yet? No, you get to hear it booting up. Everybody does. Now which one did you burn? We're on
now. Actually, I have to hold bunch of them. But the one that that is working for me because I
and it's not your fault. I always have trouble booting Ubuntu. The one that is working for me is
a 1210 the i386 version. Okay. Just so I know what we're dealing with. Yep. I tried 1304 beta that
hung up on some of the boot scripts. Now just to explain to the listener here, you told me that
they're there's sort of a bug where it doesn't like to boot without a monitor plug in. So I just
got to the like the holding page where it would say Ubuntu and then the little graphic goes on
as you wait for something to happen. And I turn my monitor off there. So hopefully you'll
okay. So for the listener, just to explain what's going on here, I'm Koki, you guys know me.
And Jonathan's here. Hey, Jonathan. Hello. Thanks for having me on. Yeah. Well, thanks for having
me on. It's kind of a cool up thing here. So for those who don't know, Jonathan NATO is
a blind Linux user. Yeah. Put it up there. Here comes Orca in a minute or two. This is kind of
a slow computer. Jonathan is a blind Linux user and he's been working with Linux and working to
try and make it more accessible for quite some time now. He's got a lot of his personal time
invested in this and he does a lot of work. Welcome to the podcast. We read the right references.
Push up and there you go. Orca's up early. Okay. And did you understand what it just said there?
Yeah. Orca screen reader preferences button. So right now if you press enter, it would bring you
into the Orca preferences mode where you can change a myriad of things within Orca. You can set
what type of keyboard you're using if you're on a laptop or desktop because depending on if you're
using a desktop or a laptop will it'll matter because certain keys are certain places in either
keyboard configuration. So you can set the keyboard configuration. You know, you can set whether or
not you want to see that work a dialogue box pop up every time you can turn it on or off.
If it turns off, it'll just boot up right into the desktop and you'll see the icons on the desktop
or whatever. Right. And you can you can change just I mean, we can get into it at some other point
or whatever you want, but you can change. Yeah, and everything. Yep. Yeah. No, I want to come back to
it. I want to I want to explain what's going on first though. So yeah, Jonathan does a lot for
the community for the Linux community and for the community that needs accessibility built into
their computers and accessibility. Well, I mostly I think the biggest need is for the blind community
since so much of the computer is done through the monitor that if you can see if you can at least
see the monitor, there's a lot of work around. But if you can't see the monitor, you're kind of
hard up and it kind of puts you in a bad situation in our society completely these days. So,
you know, the big thing is getting the computer the computer to work when you can't see it. Now,
there's a whole bunch of other accessibility that Jonathan's working on. He may be blind to
the light spectrum that the most that most of the rest of us take for granted, but he's not
blind to the fact that there's a lot of other people that have a hard time using computers
besides just folks who can't see. So he does a lot of good work there. I am not blind. I don't have
handicaps other than, you know, my own self-imposed ones, which you see all of them.
But I'm going to try being blind tonight. I'm going to try to install this with no monitor,
with, you know, as if I were a blind user without looking at a screen at all. So I've got my monitor
turned off on this computer now and you just heard the computer boot up. I got my mic right next
to the speakers here. It's a little bit of a kluji setup so that the podcast will work.
But I'm going to see if I can even get through an install and maybe try using the computer
even just a little bit without the use of a screen whatsoever. And, you know, see how difficult
this is. And I really appreciate it. I know a Linux install is not the most exciting podcast,
especially for an experienced user. But if you can stick around just to see what folks
have to go through every day. And the real purpose for this is that Jonathan has got a fundraiser
going right now on a, what's Jonathan wants to fundraise your website? It's Indiegogo.
Okay, Indiegogo. I always think Kickstarter. This is Indiegogo. Yep.
Dotcom. Yes, Indiegogo.com slash sonar. That brings you right to my, you know, fundraising
campaign site. Okay, so Jonathan has put in so much personal time and personal money and
effort into making this work for several years now. And it's time and the rest of us
jumped in and helped out. And Jonathan's looking for a little bit of money on this Indiegogo startup
page. And we got somewhere between four and five thousand downloads a day for hacker public
radio. And if everyone who downloads this podcast and listens this far, well, I'm not listening
to it. But if everyone who downloads this podcast went to Indiegogo.com slash sonar and donated five
bucks, Jonathan's goal would be met. He's trying to get 20 grand up here money to be used towards
development time for himself and for other developers. I mean, this is not all, you know, I don't
because we talked last night, Jonathan, this isn't all money in your pocket. Yeah, no.
I mean, I'm hoping some of it goes in your pocket because I know that you're working hard for
and this and you're developing this from what I can tell. It sounds like you're doing a full time
on top of several other full-time activities. Yeah, it's definitely keeping me busy and, you know,
what I like to add in a couple of things here quickly. I'm pretty much, I think, done almost
everything I can on my own. So that's the need for raising the money is to get people outside of
myself to really bring it the last mile kind of type of thing. And, you know, whatever changes
and advancements are made within sonar, everything will be pushed upstream and every other distribution
will benefit from any advancements that are made with any assistive technology. So I want to
make sure that, you know, people know that sonar isn't going to hoard any of, you know, any changes
that are made. I'm a strong believer in pushing everything back upstream so that way everyone
benefits. So I just want to make sure that's clear too. Right on, right on. So, you know, I think it's
probably safe to assume we're all, you know, everyone listening right now is familiar with the
concept of free software and Jonathan is very much a free software advocate. Yes.
I mean, and I will vouch for that personally. I know I've known Jonathan a couple of years
through the Linux community and through the Northeast GNU Linux Fest and I will vouch for Jonathan
as being a free software advocate. So, you know, I trust him implicitly with my donation that I've
made and I would just like to try to convince the hacker public radio listeners to chip in here.
So that's what the goal of this particular podcast is and if what you've heard so far is enough
and you're ready to go donate and you don't really want to hear me try to install, that's fine.
If you're curious about the install and to hear what it sounds like and you don't want to go
through it yourself, that's what we're about to do or if you want to try and go through it yourself,
but think you might want to, you know, hear a couple of the tips and tricks and pitfalls on our
way there. That's what we're about to do. So, I don't know, you think you think it's enough
a print info there, Jonathan? Oh, yeah, I'm on the edge of my seat. I can't wait to see you go through this.
Yeah, me too. I'm not quite sure. Okay, so the first thing is I can already tell you I'm
going to have a hard time understanding Orca if it keeps talking that fast at me.
You know, you know what, though, that's not even fast. That's at 50% speed.
So I understand. I totally understand that someone who's used to hear in that, that's probably
excruciatingly slow and you're waiting for it to get on with it, but I'm completely unfamiliar with,
you know, operating a system with with no visual inputs here. Yeah, no problem. And just I feel
listed as who that are, you know, that will hear this process. As you hear the voice, one of the things
I want to do with, you know, raising the money for sonar is I really, I'm attempting to get a,
you know, a more real human sounding voice than the, you know, the robot voice you're going to hear.
So that's one of the things I want to do with raising the money is get a free software
implementation of a good sounding voice synthesizer. There are some that exist currently,
but they're proprietary and you have to pay license per user and things like that. So I want to
completely skip that and create a completely free voice synthesizer that can be used by Orca
and even other companies that might be interested in including, you know, voice synthesis and their
devices and hardware, they would have a license free synthesizer that they could use.
Right. So the bottom line is Orca's great. It's fantastic that something like Orca exists and
can make the computer usable, but Orca sucks. It's, it's old. It's very difficult to understand
compared to other modern voice synthesizers and we need a new one. We need a modern one that's
easier to understand. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So basically where you're at Poke is, you know, you
brewed off the live disk. Yep. We heard the little, we heard the little sonar, you know, intro
thing as you boot as you log in. We heard Orca say welcome to Orca and you're on the preferences thing.
Okay. So, so what we're going to want to do is, you could do one of two things. I guess we'll
go with you being a, I need to slow work it down. That's the first thing I need to do.
Okay. All right. So I guess you'll want to press enter.
Orca screen reader, like, references, push button. Okay. Orca screen reader, frame, preferences, push button.
Yeah. I think you might need to push enter one more time.
There you go. Also, references, general page time. Okay. So now you're on the general,
yeah, exactly. So now you'll write arrow. And now, okay. So if I start arrowing around,
am I switching tabs or am I moving around within the tab? Picture. No, you'll be right now,
you're in one tab, but when you write arrow over, you're going to be in another tab. Okay. Okay.
So all right. Okay. So now you're on the voice page. Now you're going to press the tab key.
Okay. And then move me. Okay. Yep. And you'll start moving through the tab. Yep.
And that'll start moving me through the options inside the tab. Exactly. Okay. Yep.
Voice type settings. I don't want to talk about it. So you'll go again, tab again.
What did I couldn't even understand what it said there? Voice page settings. So right now,
you're on default. You want to leave that there. You don't want to you don't want to bother with that.
Okay. What does that change the sound of the voice? No, not there. Okay. It'll change something
different, but you can just leave that there. Speak system. Speak system. So here it's the speech
system. Okay. So the speech system is using speech dispatcher, which is the newest version of
basically Orca needs speech dispatcher to talk to the system. If there is no speech dispatcher,
Orca would it work? Okay. So there was a system before speech dispatcher, which was called
gnome speech. Yep. But they deprecated that and now speech dispatcher took over. Is speech
dispatchers that the voice itself or is that what ties? That's what ties everything together.
That's what ties the visual cues into. Right. Even even mumble uses speech dispatcher.
Okay. So. Speak system. So here's the synthesizer. That's exactly what makes the voice sound
the way it does. Yeah, exactly. So if we had a new one in here in this tab, you would arrow through
to choose like, you know, sonar synthesizer. And then that would give you a better sounding voice.
Oh, this is what we were talking about. We need to work on. Yes.
Yeah. So this is where we need some money folks to get a sexy British voice.
Exactly. Or, or, or we could pay Peter 64 and have a sexy Australian voice.
Good day. Good day. So right here is it's actually the language. So it's on the default is English,
but there's literally if you went through this, there's I'm guessing 30 different languages. Orca
currently can use. So there's Chinese, Vietnamese, Russian, Slavic, Italian, Spanish, you know,
the Scottish. There's all kinds of stuff. Yeah. So yeah, you don't have to try to remember all 30.
If if we got to the new voice that you're talking about, what that have to be written to accept
all the different languages or those at different peace and it would just plug into that naturally.
That I'm not sure. I almost want to say it would have to be completely redone, I think,
unfortunately, just because there's different sounds in different languages in English.
Exactly. Right. Right. We got to get to roll its hours like ruin Rodriguez. Exactly.
That guy was so cool. All right. Right. 65. Okay. That's great. Right here. Now if I
see your left left arrow and all decreases. Sixty four. Sixty three. Sixty two. No,
I might be okay. How do I test it? I guess really you would just kind of tab and see if you
like how it sounds after that. Okay. This side of I come to the other side of 10 come to the other
global voice settings panel. Right. Speak into chunks. It's important. Check object. I think I can
handle that. What was that about breaking pauses? You can set Orca to like you can tell to like
if there's like a space or like a period, it can do its best at reading like a human word.
That's what it is. Or you can tell it. Ignore the spaces. Ignore the paragraph and just read
flat out as fast as you can. No, no. I can't handle it. No. Okay. I think I probably handle
words that speak multiple things with. Okay. So just keep tabbing through and you'll see
you'll see apply changes. Okay. So you just can enter on that when you get to it.
My sentence combo box. I didn't understand a word.
Hell. Okay.
There you go. Orca. Use the settings. Reload with Orca. We leave a thread one on focus night long.
Okay. Okay. So now you can either left click on your mouse. Okay. Do the left click on
the mouse button or on the number pad, you can press what's on the number pad, not the top left
button, but the one to the right of that. That would be a. Okay. Well, five is the center button with
the. So like like on the grid of number pad on the number pad, the top left hand button,
one to the right. That performs a left mouse click. Oh, okay. That's a forward slash on my
number pad. So you can press that. Okay. All right. And then get anything. No, you didn't try
a left mouse click on your mouse. There you go. Okay. I had to move the mouse around a little bit.
Okay. So then now press the down arrow. We hate to use that. Oh, wait. You actually like
right click. There's something. Press the escape button on the keyboard. That's a flame. I can
use it. There we go. Now press the down arrow. Okay. Compute and I can press down again.
So my come. Oh, there you go. Yeah. Press down one more time. I come down two more times.
That's probably messed up. Yeah. One more like I'm installed. So not 12.20. Okay. I'm on my
duration. I like I'm okay. I'm on the desktop. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Okay. I'm right out this
though. So now you're on the install sonar icon. So you can press enter. I did. And I can hear
the CD working. Yeah. It's it's not depending depending on the computer. I can take
her along. It's all right. There you go. Okay. So now right now and you're starting the install
process and you're choosing your language and it's only English by default. Yep. You can press tab
here. Okay. It's push button tab again. What did it say? It said quick. Oh. Continue push
button. Right. There you go. Then just press enter. Okay. So continue push button.
Continue push button. So I'm using the party software to play Flash MP3 under the media.
I'm to work with some graphics. I'm like I hardware. Some of this software is with my
I mean the software is not that I sometimes include it with its documentation. Install this
with party software. Check off. It's not checked. Do not check that box. Right. Right. Right.
Okay. So let me ask you a question. Is there all right. So first thing. How do I get
orchid to repeat what it just said? Is there a key to do that or something? Yeah. I mean
normally what I do is I just like press tab and then press shift tab. Okay. And that goes
back. So I'm using the party software to play Flash MP3 under the media and to work with some
graphics. And why I hardware. Some of this software is with my the software is some
that's the license terms included with its documentation. Install this with party software.
Check off. It's not checked. Right. Okay. So now my next I go ahead. Yeah. My next question is
then. Is it's mostly keyboard driven? Then there's there's not a whole lot of mouse
and going on. It's totally keyboard. No mouse at all. Okay. All right. Now I was my I was under
the impression. I was assuming that when you move the mouse around it would like tell you what's
under the arrow. What's under the pointer? What was on the screen? But no a lot a lot of people
don't realize that with the keyboard you can literally do everything on a mouse with the keyboard.
Like I was telling you with like the numpad on a desktop that to the right one of the top left.
That's a left mouse click. One to the right over is a right mouse click. And if you're using
a laptop you would press the cap slot key and the number seven would be a left click and
cap slot key and the number eight would be a right click. Okay. So here you can press the arrow key
down. All right. Hold on a second. Let me get my bokeh. That was the key. So you really all right.
So you have no idea what's on your screen. Unless you just kind of arrow around and tab around
exactly. Exactly. That's balls. All right. All right. Let me see what I can do without
without being walked through. Let me see what I can do. Okay. Sure.
I use the pop-up software to click push button. Pop up push button. Great. Continue push button.
And is there a way to get it to speak the window title at me? Uh I don't know what you mean.
Just to refresh my memory of what what the hell's in the window already other than the options.
like it seemed like every time I opened a new window it would tell me what the
window is that I'm working with. Yeah I'm not sure how to answer that because
I you know I had the last computer that I saw was a Commodore 64 so I don't
know how to explain I mean I'm so I'm so used to doing this though I can
literally you know go through this like set up menu process in like five
minutes like I just fly through it because I'm used to it. What if I so? What if I
tried to like alt tab would it would that give me that might just bring you
back to the desktop and like you know I'm saying let me bring you back to this
window right all right let me try that and let me hear if it tells me because we
read that. See your back of the desktop.
I've been accessible install. They are back on the continual button. That's what I
wanted. Okay was the install frame. All right. So I'm using the
continual button, continual button. All right.
And so here like most people probably know like what they want to do based
systems however here as you start to fill out the next part of the system it's
really kind of installing stuff in the background as you're going that's why it
sends zero percent. Yeah yep yep you know yeah no this part is actually not hard
to understand as as a newly blind user because the CD makes the sound of a
progress bar. Exactly. That's a joke for anybody. Continue push
button. Continue push button. Continue push button.
They might want to have a better system on it. What would you like to do? Panel
installs are alongside them. Selected radio button. They raise this and
install so up. Selected radio button. Something else. Selected radio
button. Okay space bar. Well let's select it or don't get it enter on that.
You would hit enter. Okay. Panel. Combo Mods.
Sashments, S-S-D-A, scroll pane. Table. The mice column have a Sashments S-S-D-A
table. New partition table not not not push button read.
Create a new partition table on this device. You have selected an entire device
to partition. If you proceed with creating a new partition table on the
device then all current partitions will be removed. Note that you will be able
to undo this operation later if you wish. Go back push button.
Just so everyone understands and gets the warm fuzzies about this this hard drive
has some windows on it. I don't know. This is a computer I found so
I get to wipe out windows and I feel good about that. Well you could you could
just went back. If you go back instead of doing something else the
there is an option that says a race entire disc. Oh yeah I know but I
I like to read partition. Oh okay okay. You know I like to put my home on a separate
partition and I want to see if I can get that done.
Okay yeah no problem. You know if it comes down to be
in you know hampered by you know the lack of my ability to see right now
then there's work to be done and you know that's what people need to understand.
Come to new push button. Install right new partition table not
not push button. It's level pain. All right so scroll pain does that mean
that's where I would scroll around if I was using the mouse?
Right and if I did that would it would or could tell me more?
To be honest I've never tried an error bother because I never use the mouse. I don't
know. Right okay. Table. The mice column have us as
the A table. New partition table not not not push
button. Create a new partition table on this device. You have selected an
entire device to partition. If you proceed with creating a new partition table
on the device then all current partitions will be removed.
Note that you will be able to undo this operation later if you wish. Go back
push button. Continue push button. Install right new partition table not
not not push button. It's level pain. And she's telling me the same thing
over and over again I'm lost in the window. Oh no it was
table. The mice column have us as the A table.
I think you'll click on SDA there to create the partition.
I think so while it didn't enter didn't do it.
It's space bar is not selecting it. But try doing um
using your num key again. Try uh like I said the the top left hand corner
and then go to the right. That would perform a right click. Maybe you need to do
that. New partition table not not not push left
table. It's level pain. Install out push left and
out push left and push left and such as the iCombo mobs
with push left and okay what does it mean when it says a combo box is
there. Options inside that that I need to get
Yeah we can try there on the color box um normally I
hold the space bar down and then press the arrow key down.
Comes installed right click push left and
no click push left and install out push slow pain
table. The mice column have a free case.
Partly go. Okay. Create partition size and be type for the new partition.
Location for the new partition. You have month point
size 250,000 and 59 selected spin button.
Type for the new partition. Type for the new partition.
Plyler with selected radio button. Location for the new partition.
Location for the new partition. Beginning of this case.
Selected radio button. You have x4.9 file system combo mobs.
Month point combo mobs text. Install frame table.
50% 100%. No okay that didn't just do that one. It's
scroll pain. Install out push right and scroll pain
table. The mice column have a such that such as the a
table new partition table not not not push
button. Remember push button brain.
Sashvets as the a combo mobs.
When it is installed frame. Sashvets as the a combo mobs.
Window. Sashvets as the a. Install frame. Sashvets as the a combo mobs.
All right. Window. Sashvets as the a1.
Install frame. Sashvets as the a1 combo mobs.
Click push button. Add push button.
I'm almost there and I can install out push
button. Keep it in the wrong thing I think.
Scroll pain table. New partition table not not not
push button. Create a new empty partition table on this
device. You have selected an entire device to
partition. You receive with creating a new
partition table on the device. Then all current
partition will be removed. Note that you will be
able to undo this operation later if you wish. Go
add push button. Continue push button.
Install frame. New partition table not not not
push button. Zero percent. Scroll pain. Page time.
Table. The mice column pepper sashvets as the a
table. The mice column pepper three days.
Install 100 percent. The mice column pepper sashvets as the a.
Yeah, man. Yeah, I can't help it here. I don't bother
usually setting up my partition. So no, you just do it.
Yeah, yeah, I just don't. Yeah, usually.
Sashvets as the a1. I don't hop around.
Disco hop too much. And what I do, I just back up my
home partition anyways and. Right, yeah.
Blow it away and just start over. Okay. Well, push button.
Read it. If I ever practice doing it, I can play. I mean, I know it is
possible, but I've just never bothered doing it. Yeah, no, that's fine.
Table. Zero percent. I'm not sure what the percentages I don't
ever recall seeing anything about percentage.
Maybe that's the percent of the disc that's I've chosen to use.
Yeah, it might be. All right, because I just chose to revert.
All right, I'm going to give this one more try. And if it doesn't work,
I'm going to back up and do the whole disc.
Just just to not waste any more time with the podcast.
New partition table, not not not push button.
Create a new limited partition table on this device.
You have selected an entire device to put it.
Install frame. New partition table, not push button.
I don't want to do it. Install in a root file system.
Wow. Okay, shit. Install frame.
12 pane table. The mice column.
Hevers. Ashmen.
Ash SDA table.
The mice column.
Hevers. Ashmen.
Ash SDA one size 241, 247 selected.
It's important.
All right. How do I enter text here, do you know?
Well, I think from here, did you tab to get there or
did you arrow to get there? I tab.
I believe here in this box, it's like, you know,
dialogue box, whatever. I believe you can either arrow.
I don't know if it would be either left, right, or up or down.
Because you could just change the numbers.
Because it's already set at like, whatever it's set to.
Yeah, that's 200, 250 gig is.
Right. Yeah. So you could probably just like, like I said,
it's either left or right to decrease it or up and down.
Yeah, it's well, I remember it's up and down from the installer.
So I would guess I would just press down here and you shouldn't.
But this is where I usually, if I'm if I'm doing this with a mouse
in my eyes, this is you at school.
No, I wouldn't even. I just type a new number.
I would you could probably just try type one here and see if it does it.
I'm not on.
To 20. I.
252, 20. I thousand.
All right. That's what I'm looking for. There you go.
You have to not use the partition combo box.
In here with this cancel. You have to not use the partition combo box.
Right now, here in a combo box. And it said,
use the partition as. And the selection you're on right now is
don't use this partition. Okay. So let me try. So I can try type in here.
This sounds like where I should be able to type.
What would you normally type here? Slash. Okay. Go ahead.
All right. So it gives me no confirmation that I've typed.
I would try the arrow key down and see if it gives you an option.
Okay. How about the arrow key up?
Is it a volume for intuition? Try up again.
Swap out. Yeah.
MTFS, FIT. Oh, this is. Oh, this is just a partition type.
Okay. I was thinking it was uh,
start actually moving this believe it or not because we're just said that the
box is not checked that was just a space bar to check the box. Yeah sorry sorry I
know I see doing it pretty quick I was like hey he's getting the hang of
already. This is funny that you can see what I'm doing and I can't. Yeah it's
funny. All right yeah now you know here is where you could just type in the
slash I believe you're already in the box right now. All right so I just hit
slash. I'm talking slash combo box. There you go. Okay so it's a slash combo
box. Is that mean it slashes what's in the combo box? Exactly. Exactly.
Text slash detected. So you're still kind of in that like you're not in the
combo box but it's telling you slash has been selected. Oh yeah I did it a
shift to have to go back to see what it would say if I went forward again I'm
gonna go back one more and then go forward again. Hold on to the position check
object month point combo object slash selected month point slash combo box.
Yeah it's repeating the same thing I'm not sure if it shows that twice or not
on the screen but it's basically telling the same things twice. Okay.
Comes up with nothing. Okay push nothing. All right there's only one thing that I
remember from this box that I'm not here and it's there I guess I'm not seeing
it is what I should say. The one thing I'm not here and it usually asks if I
want to if I want SDA one to be at the beginning of the drive or the end of
the drive. So I'm gonna say. I think that was that you did go by that but I don't
think it was audibly asking you that. I don't think it might not have been
reading a part of the screen maybe because there was that section where you
went from SDA to SDA one and maybe in that area that you might build a position
where it is but again I have no that was that was the where where where I
tabged past SDA to SDA one. I remember from the installer that's a different
window. Okay. And this is like a what do you call a context window. Okay.
That comes up within that. So let me scroll to this one more time. Sorry it's
taking me so long. Not a problem. I'm going to have a view of X4 the format
of the partition. Check out month point, month point, sash from the cancel push
nothing. Okay push nothing. I'm going to have a view of X4 format of the
partition, month point, month point, cancel push nothing, okay push nothing.
Install frame table. Okay. The ice column have a sash then sash SDA two.
But we don't have a table. Sash then sash SDA one. Sash then sash SDA.
Sash then sash SDA one. Sash then sash SDA two. All right. You do not use the
partition combo mods. Physical volume for encryption. Swap area. FAT32
file system. FAT16 file system. XFS donate in file system.
FFS donate in file system. BDRFS. Reiser. FFFX2. FFX3. X4 donate in
file format of the partition. Check what's not checked. Checked. Month point.
combo mod set. Here's where you typed in the slash. Month point.
Sash then combo mods. There you go. Yeah. Okay. Council push nothing.
Okay push nothing. Use X4 donate in file system.
combo mods. Full method of partition. Check what's checked. Month point.
combo mod set. Month point. Sash then combo mods.
Council push nothing. It's not asking me how much
size it should be though. Oh yeah. You're right.
Okay push nothing. Because if I just hit okay now,
I'm going to have a route in a home partition and no swap space.
Yeah. You didn't on the SDA two. I didn't see that same
section where when you're with SDA one where you chose the size.
Yeah. I'm going to try to go back and try that. I'm not sure why that didn't offer.
Or maybe you know arrow through it. Use X4 donate in file format of the partition.
Month point. combo mod set. Sash then selected. I think that's what I think I have to
arrow point. Sash cancel push nothing. Okay push nothing. Use X4
method of partition. Check what's checked. Month point.
combo mod set. Sash then Sash. Month point. Sash then combo mods.
Text. Sash then selected. Blank. No. Yeah. I think it was before you
did this is when you chose the size and then you went to this.
You know, portion of month point. Sash then combo mods.
Console push nothing. You might have to go back in full grain table.
You might still have a Sash then Sash SDA one. Yeah. Sash then Sash SDA.
Sash then Sash SDA one. Sash then Sash SDA two.
Sash then Sash SDA one. That's weird that it's offering me SDA two at this point.
Because usually you have to go to new to create SDA two.
Yeah, it's true. It just kind of automatically did it.
Yeah. Oh, great. Well, I guess once we change their installer for 12, 12, 12 10.
Sash then Sash SDA one. Sash then Sash SDA one.
Oh, man. I wonder if it's going to automatically create Swapspace in there somewhere.
Type column head of path 32. Month point column head of land.
Format column head of checkbox not checked.
Sash column head of eight thousand eight hundred and one. There you go.
Format. No, that's a checkbox not checked.
Sash column head of eighth hundred and one envy.
Insert egg e Friday. Yeah, that's okay. Pushordin use the partition envelope odds.
Council push written took a push Wasn't use that.
do not use a partition tomorrow wise.
Physical volumeろうon question swap area Fat 32 rupees F a statistics кад for
three dot that started passionate system. You can make that 8 gigs the swap.
Yeah, that's true. We don't have to buy two-piles system. We either have a
beston A-line file system. We do have a beston A-line F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-F-A-T-S-T-F-T-F-T-F-T-F-T-S-T-F-F-T-Swap A-We-T.
Yeah, you're right. You're absolutely right. It's what to do with it. I normally wouldn't give it eight
cases.
Yeah, okay, all right.
Okay, push Newton. You have to swap A-We-Cumble Mods.
All right. So swap area.
Cancel push nothing, okay push nothing, cancel push nothing, okay push nothing, install frame table
size column header 241,000. Yeah, there's the remaining remainder of your format column header check
box not checked, month point column header blank format column header check box not checked.
Now I'm, if you'll forgive me, I'm just arrowing around blindly here. I'm not,
there doesn't seem to be any rhyme or reason to, if I hit tab, I seem to be getting a different set of
options every time depending on where I've arrowed to. That's kind of the trick. Once you get used to
the way certain things work, because tabbing an arrow, kind of like they can do similar tasks,
but sometimes those tasks are reversed based on the program in the window. Right, or like sometimes
say if you're like the best way I could describe it is like say if you're in a web page and you're
in a like a particular box in the web page, you could, you would arrow through the box,
but if you tabbed, you'd be tabbing through other boxes on the web page. Right, so that's kind of
like that might be a sort of what's happening here is, you know, you might hit tab, it'll bring
you somewhere you can see before, but if you press arrow in another spot, you might see something
you wouldn't see because you tab over it. All right, so the lesson here for everybody is if you're
going to be blind, learn to use your keyboard without the mouse first. Yes, exactly.
New partition table, not not not not push button, slash, slash SDA combo box.
Okay, so I hit tab and I got to the new partition table and I know from going through this 18 times
now that I can arrow down to the, I can arrow down to the like the SDA three or whatever particular
position. Yeah, yeah, Passwords par row, S or SDA.
I think I might have just deleted the cate!
270ereWon.
Okay, just a tuned to be there.
Mark push button, install nerede Hmm when we're paying table format column header checkup
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check,
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check,
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check,
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check,
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check, check
