Episode: 1962
Title: HPR1962: 2015-2016 HPR New Years Show Episode 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1962/hpr1962.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 12:23:13

---

This is HPR Episode 1962 entitled HPR New Year's Show Episode 2.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and is about 200 minutes long.
The summary is distro's, wearable distro's, RIP and Murdoch, Chromebooks, Samsung, WW-1, Libra Planet, DTS and more.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Oh and I reckon it's time we need to say Happy New Year to Afghanistan.
So which distro is your preferred?
Right now I'm running Kaboom 2 on my stuff just because it's simple to throw on there.
I have a lot of time usually to decarantle stuff.
You know it's funny the thing I don't like about Debian based distros is I'm not really fond of Debian packaging.
It just seems like RPM you can do a lot more and just actually building the packages.
Well going in and doing a make Deb-package might seem easy on the surface.
I don't think it really leads to entirely reproducible builds like you can get with RPM.
I'm not allowed anything so I'm not really concerned with it.
I will say that I like the way that Debian handles networking over the way that Flora and Red Hat handles networking.
In what way?
It's all just in one file so you don't have to jump around and look everywhere.
You can just open up one file and edit that one file and you're done.
What RC car?
Well let me rephrase it.
The way I've seen it done it's all in one file.
Yeah it should be a file called Etsy Network isn't it?
Indeed.
What was the Fedora throw it?
Etsy Sysconfig network dash scripts and then you have a difference network script for every network device.
That sounds mildly confusing.
Hence my saying I prefer the way that Debian does it.
I'm looking at my current Kaboom 2 install.
It's 1510 on my laptop.
I've got an earlier version on my desktop because of my AMD card.
It doesn't look like the network is one specific file.
So we've got a bunch of them.
I haven't played as much with Ubuntu as I have with Debian and Triscoll.
But at least Debian and Triscoll.
Well of course Triscoll is kind of an Ubuntu derivative so now I'm slightly confused.
It could be because of the system DBS that's running here.
I'm not sure.
I've got a gummy.
I've got an Etsy network directory and then there's a if down dot D if post down dot D if pre up dot D if up dot D interfaces interfaces dot D in a run.
I'm not sure what run is but.
It would be so the actual configuration would be in the Etsy network.
Yeah what I'm saying is that Etsy network is actually a directory.
It's not a file.
Okay and well what do you have within that directory?
There's subdirectories if down dot D if post down dot D if pre up dot D if up dot D a file named interfaces.
Another directory called interfaces dot D and run which looks like an executable file.
I'm not sure.
It would be the interfaces file.
If you open that up you would see your basic networking thing.
Now am I correct in assuming that you were working on the arm version of Fedora?
I guess.
Did you do any pie stuff or mostly just with I think I heard you say Chromebooks?
I did a lot of work with Chromebooks for a while there until I dropped my Chromebook and kind of busted it.
Well that'll put a little down front and stuff.
But for various reasons namely the upstream kernel doesn't work on the Raspberry Pi.
Fedora doesn't support it and Fedora won't support it.
And as long as the Raspberry Pi doesn't support the upstream kernel.
What about the distro Pidora?
That's actually done by Seneca College which is up in Canada.
They do it as their own thing.
I did I know that.
Mine it's built off of Fedora and with the newer pies that are based on the R&B 7 chips.
They actually use the Fedora user space but they still ship their own kernel.
Now do you use any of the micro computers?
How do you mean?
Raspberry Pi, banana pie, Arduino.
I recently found one called PC Dweenow.
I have an Arduino.
What are you using it for?
One second guys.
Hey guys what's up I'm back.
Hey Tosh.
Did I miss anything super cool?
Yes.
Lots.
I'm not going to repeat it.
You're going to have to go back and listen to it later.
Well that was going to happen anyways.
I guess no arm novel.
What about you Tosh.
Do you have any of the single board computers?
The only thing that I've played with substantially is the Raspberry Pi.
And I've played with pretty much every single one of them besides the Pi zero.
And that's only because I can't get one right now.
If I had one I'm sure I would be doing things with it.
To be honest most of the stuff I do I can do with Arduino.
So for me a lot of the times I don't see the need for the single board computers because I can just...
If I'm going to put a computer that small but something you probably doesn't need to do that much.
So I usually just go with Arduino because they're easy to program and they're cheap and I can make them myself.
I'm not going where to get them.
Sorry about that y'all I'm back.
So actually project I've been working on with Arduino is making a one handed courting keyboard.
Really?
That sounds cool.
I have four keys and eventually the idea is to have them embedded in the palm of a glove so I can just type one handed and build a habit connected somehow to a device.
I'm not sure how I'm going to do that yet.
I figured that my ability to use touchscreen keyboards is rather lacking so I figured this would be physically easier for me.
For exactly the same reason I thought about trying to come up with some sort of way to do like Morse code in a tactile way because I hate on-screen keyboards.
Just some way to be able to input things pretty quickly without having to deal with that so I like your idea.
So the plan is once I get it functioning really well and get all the kinks worked out I'm going to release all the source code and release any if I release an instruction set to kind of tell how to put it together.
I guess this is motivation to work on it.
Well I would definitely be down for trying to doubt if it was out there so yeah.
If for no other reason than for me to play with it.
Actually what I've been thinking about doing is I've got a 64 bit arm board on the way.
It's a small one and if I can hand on a some sort of small display I could strap say just strap on to form my forearm.
I could definitely do some wearable computing.
I know Adafruit's got a bunch of tiny monitors.
Yeah the only problem with a lot of Adafruit stuff is is they've really standardized on my raspberry pie stuff.
So like they want a certain header layout they definitely want to be consistent with that.
I think that'd be a good thing.
I'm looking forward for a stand alone type monitor.
It's preferably in a weatherproof case.
Get the monitor 3D print.
Did somebody say 3D printer?
Yeah that's a pretty good idea.
It seems like every time I come into this mobile room we get off on the 3D printer day and it's awesome.
Oh we've already been there once since I hopped on here so.
Excellent.
I'm talking about earlier how I 3D print some of my model trains.
Ah that's actually pretty groovy.
Cool.
Speaking of which I need to fire mine up and do something for a project.
I don't know every time I get to the point of where I'm like wearable computers would be cool.
I just look at myself and I'm like oh there it is.
It's just not it's in my pocket none of my wrist or you know arm wrist or like in front of my face.
Yeah I'm kind of the same way.
I mean I'm one who can't I can't even wear a wrist watch because I'm afraid of breaking it's way.
I have one of those little clip watches like hakers got they put on their backpacks.
I have one of those attached to my belt.
How do you worry so much about breaking your watch?
I've got a cheap and big automatic on my wrist right now.
I'm working a machine shop with several thousand pound parts and I don't have a single scratch on the thing.
I don't work in a machine shop I work retail but I play a little bit rough.
I work shoulder check about a stack of banana boxes.
Oh I'm rough believe me.
I went through I don't know at least two watches wrist watches where they just I mean they were.
I've had decent ones and then I bought a cheap one just just because I wanted to have a watch and it just completely shattered.
I mean fell in the pieces on the floor so.
I want to try a G shop.
They're pretty tough.
Oh the heaven though I mean I definitely looked different with a watch attached to my belt but besides that I've I've worn one on my belt since.
I don't know last almost ten years probably so it doesn't bother me and it's it's usually they usually last pretty well.
I mean usually it's the the class be a little strapped it's attached to breaks after a while but other than that that that holds up.
Cool.
I think the question is do you think you can wear what is essentially a cell phone or small computer on your wrist while you work at the machine shop.
Could I or would I be permitted to?
Do you think you can do it without breaking it or harming it in a way where it would make it unusable?
Probably should do it.
I don't know I just kind of feel like I've got enough things squawking in me telling me I have things to do that a wearable computer would just be more of the same.
So I can't want to avoid it if it's all possible.
I find myself more and more just turning my phone off and going and hiding in the cave if I can.
Yeah I'm with you on that.
One of my one of the things I'd like to do is also have some sort of a near field communications type setup with my keyboard glove.
So I can program it to act like various mass transit cards and I just wave my palm over the gate at a safe for instance the in the Boston T and it lets me in.
That would be cool or the NFC is like standardized.
I mean is that something you can get access to?
We have like zero public transportation here so I have no idea how that works.
From what I understand they are they're all very similar although the exact keys and all that will be different from one system to another.
And I'm kind of in the whole opposite spectrum of I would love to have a little bit more flashy lights and things reminding me of things while I'm working.
Because really while I'm working mentally I am just really really bored.
I'm pretty much standing in one spot or another just just stacking stuff or pushing things around with no real other communication or things going on.
It gets really really mentally dull.
My job is not much different.
I used to wire houses and so that was that was mentally dulling as well sitting there putting in receptacles over and over and over again.
Could you listen to like music or something while you're doing it though?
I could I mean most of the time I was on my own on the job site so I could do whatever I wanted to.
See that's cool but when you're working on a sales floor and retail you can't have like a little headphone on.
But I'd love to be able to do that where I can just you know have a podcast going in my ear while I just stand there and work and still be able to you know converse with the customers but no one's going to allow that.
Yeah my line of work if I don't pay attention for two seconds I'll have a ride on my hand so I don't have a leisure listening to anything work.
Oh no no no no.
Where I work where I'd have radius so I went to the thrift store found a hundred watt amp for fifteen dollars hooked it up and I blasted my HPR.
Nice.
Very cool.
You can hear it ever probably no quarter of the shop.
I occasionally get complaints but then I say what are you complaining about the content.
You need to get to those guys over in a corner that are listening to loud how it's turned that they need to turn nerds off first.
They generally leave me alone.
For a while there I listen to well I didn't listen to it but one of my coworkers was a born and bred Republican.
And so that's all I heard all day long was Republican talk radio.
I grew up in a Republican talk radio.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
Of course that being said I also grew up in a Republican household so and this was back when I was in high school.
I didn't object to it at the time.
I listened to a lot of Rush Limbaugh growing up and whatever.
I was always at least smart enough to take the things that I agree with and take those I don't agree with and just kind of roll with things.
Just because you listen to it doesn't mean you have to follow it wholeheartedly.
Yeah this is true.
I don't know.
I feel like anything political.
I'm just going to kind of glaze over after certain amount of time.
It's just me.
I went to phase my life where I was just like everything political was interesting and now I'm just over it.
I can't deal with it anymore.
Yeah that's exactly where I am now.
Go ahead.
I'm just numb because I realized that whatever ID doesn't make up a bit of difference.
Here you there.
See that's why I've been avoiding libertarian for so long.
People keep telling me oh you're throwing your vote away.
Well maybe one day people will wise them up and go look these people are actually getting votes.
Maybe we should actually bring them to I don't know what debate.
That's until you can have more than just the two parties out of debate and a debate.
Well debates are a shame anyway but I agree I'm registered libertarian.
Pennsylvania is odd that way and that you can't be put on about unless you get like a thousand signatures.
If you're one of the major two parties, if you're a third party, you have to have 20,000 signatures.
Oh that's not exactly fair.
Pennsylvania, home of corruption.
Well and it's like I just remember hearing a bunch of stuff about Larry Lessick when he tried to get in the democratic presidential debates.
There was this loophole where none of the media companies would let you be in the debates unless you had 1% of polling numbers.
But all of the polls were run by the media companies and they wouldn't put them in the polls.
So he was just standing there like I'm trying to get in you guys will let me in.
So it seems like a ragged regardless.
It doesn't matter what side you're on.
It's just sort of whoever wants you to be heard is the one that makes the decision whether you get in or not.
So it's a topology you know?
At least your senator is not in the KKK.
So you got that going for you.
And I got a pale golden hockey game.
I'm not sure peeing in the KKK is a going for you.
I'm not sure how classified but I wouldn't classify like that.
I meant the fact you don't have them being the KKK is one thing you got going for you.
And with that happy new year to Russia, Moscow, Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Moscots.
All right guys I got to drop back off in a minute here back to work.
Sounds like fun.
Always.
You know mumble has this weird thing where if you go to another window or another workspace it minimizes.
But on tiling window managers that does weird things.
Now what was the name of the tiling window manager using?
Qtile. It's written in Python.
Was that easy to set up?
Well on Fedora at least you just have to just install it from the package manager.
Just to DNF install a Qtile.
What about configuring?
Well the config file is in Python.
If you know Python then the default config is actually pretty usable though.
So all right out of the box to switch between different workspaces.
You use meta asdf so like your windows key and then a and then windows key s and so on and so forth.
It defaults to maximizing everything but you can configure how it lays out the tiles and all that pretty easily.
And I actually have it set up so that I actually can switch between different tile wet layouts depending on what I'm doing.
And each workspace I have has different tile layouts set up.
So for instance I have a workspace with just Firefox and that's just maximized.
But my terminal workspace I have it set up so it'll it'll do like an x-monad type thing where the left hand side.
The left hand half of the screen is just my one solid terminal and the right hand half can be broken up into different applications.
And they're tiled horizontally on the right hand half of the screen.
Pretty cool.
All right guys I'll be going to jump back in here later on.
I have a good day sir.
I've also got things set up so that for instance I have a workspace that's just dedicated to Firefox I said.
And whenever I whenever I first log in Firefox actually launches on that workspace.
I have another workspace for higher seeing and what happens is I have a actually it launches a terminal window and then which then ssh is into the server that's running my earthy client.
And it does all that automatically.
It starts up a bunch of odds and ends like my mbd client starts up and a lot of automation.
So when I first log in it's ready to go.
I don't even have to think about starting anything.
That's pretty cool.
I'm just a moron and I just start of the same things every day in the same order which you know is not very Linux.
I should have at least a script to do that at this point.
But I don't know.
I just keep on doing the same dumb things.
It took me 15 years I guess to get to this point.
I've also been playing around with some with Wayland and Wayland tiling compositors.
And unfortunately however Wayland is still not quite there if it's usual for every day.
Yeah it would be cool if it was ready to go.
I think it's going to be helpful.
It's actually you know helpful.
But I played with it a little bit.
I don't know.
There's just so much that extra lies on like so much that it's going to be a while to get it straight down.
Well I have found that running Wayland.
If I'm just running pure Wayland applications and nothing that requires X Wayland.
Then my memory footprint is actually somewhat smaller and running X and you know the equivalent X applications.
I mean wasn't that kind of the idea going in is that we would get rid of the behemoth that is X and kind of get something a little more efficient.
Well yeah that's one of the guys.
Since I'm into low-powered devices then that's a definite win.
So which window manager do you use just South Curiosity?
I'm using Nome because that's not always used.
I don't know.
It's usually Nome or Mate just because basically Nome 2.
Well you use Nome 2 for probably the first eight or nine years of my running Linux.
Then I switched to flux box and then here about a year ago I switched to Qtile.
Yeah I keep trying these things you know I'll spin something up in the VM and play with it for a little bit.
I just keep going back to you know this works.
I don't need it to do that much so I do have a love for tyling windows.
That is something that I do appreciate a great deal but I've not gotten to where I just use that as my desktop.
At this point my desktop is it's a very early 90s hacker movie.
Ask if that makes sense.
It sounds awesome is what it sounds like.
So I use different terminal emulators for different things.
Well let me rephrase.
I use one terminal emulator but I use different profiles for different things.
So like for instance the profile I have set up for my IRC the text is green.
But my main hacking on things terminal the text is blue mostly because that's a little easier on the eyes.
I have another profile terminal profile set up.
So once it hits 9 o'clock at night it actually turns everything red and the idea being that red is less likely to keep you awake.
It doesn't work very well. I usually stay up so they're in the morning anyway.
Yeah I've always wondered about that.
Like I keep reading about it and I'm like is that really a thing?
Like is that just something they tell people that is true?
I'm not sure but yeah I've heard some people swear by it and I've heard some people just say no it doesn't do anything.
It's exactly the same as it was before.
Yeah I'm starting to think that's really the way it is.
Hang on a couple minutes I'm going to run over and start it my 3U printer so I can start something I'll be right back.
Hi.
Ahoi.
Anybody up to anything?
Alright I'm back sir about that.
Alright now it's my turn to be right back.
How'd you do that?
So what are you printing?
What are your thoughts all about E and Murdoch?
Yeah what happened?
We just got to watch it go down and I was like what is happening right now.
It's definitely some suspicious shit.
Yeah I just don't even know how to like parse it.
I don't even make it any kind of congruence in my brain.
I don't know.
It's definitely bizarre.
I've never quite seen anything quite like it.
It's one of those things that I hope we find out more about it but it's the same time like if I was part of the family.
I kind of hope that it wouldn't get out if India that was true or you know what happened.
I have no idea.
Things definitely don't quite add up and the thing is it worries me.
You know that could happen to anybody else.
Oh yeah for sure.
I don't know.
It just seems like if he was in that bad of a place.
I don't know.
You figured like there would have been talk about it especially as kind of foundational as he was in the community.
And being part of Docker is no like Docker is the new hotness.
So you figured if there was something going on that it would have probably made the news before things you have out of hand.
I don't know.
It's very the Twitter posts are the most erratic and crazy stuff I've seen.
So I don't know if he just kind of lost it.
And that was what that was or if somebody got a hold of it and knew something was going on or it just seems weird and bizarre.
If it was a case of he just lost it.
I mean the tweets or tweets would sort of follow that pattern you know.
It seems like even the most rational of the tweets is irrational.
So I mean I hope that what he's accusing of had happened didn't happen.
It might not surprise me if it did but I don't know.
That's kind of that's a big leap to take over something like that.
I don't know.
I mean there's been plenty of evidence of similar things happening here in the last couple of years.
Oh yeah that's why I wouldn't be surprised.
If like that came out to be true.
I just think his reaction to it was probably the most troubling.
You know just sort of it started off like he was like yeah I'm in the fight this and stuff.
I kind of like I feel like most people in that situation especially somebody with as much of a outreach as he had.
You know he could actually make life difficult for some people if that's what actually happened.
But it seemed to just go off the rails really fast like ridiculously fast.
Hey especially around the time he says that they followed him home.
Makes you wonder if they saw the first round and was like yeah we got to do something about this now and that's what went down.
Yeah they figured out oh this is who we have and we better make sure that everything goes okay from here on out and it didn't.
So yeah.
But I know one outcome is that no police officers will be fired over this or have their careers.
You know have anything happen to the careers have all the place will get off Scott free as they usually do.
As much as I wish that if it is something that is wrong doing I hope that's not true.
But I don't have much faith that it will not be not true if that makes any sense.
I mean if a cop can get off Scott free for running over the vice president of some company while he is riding his bike just because the cop was looking at his computer and checking his email while driving and can get off Scott free.
I found my next defense when I run over somebody although I don't think it's going to go over as well.
Yeah you're all you're not a cop so.
I was just checking my email I mean come on.
One of my favorites is in Jacksonville North Carolina and Oneslow County Sheriff.
I mean he did there wasn't any death so it's kind of why this is my favorite.
But Oneslow County Sheriff had a bit of road rage and deliberately hit another car and he got off Scott free.
Basically had a week of evocation.
Wow that's kind of terrible.
Like they proved he intentionally hit the person and still got off that's crazy.
Yeah they put them on paid administrative leave which is for a week which is basically you get paid a paycheck but you don't have to show it work.
You're on vacation for a week.
Man that's rough.
That's significantly rough actually.
I'm glad nobody got hurt.
I mean nobody died at least.
I mean somebody might have got hurt but that at least makes it comical.
That's what I'm saying.
As far as I know no one got hurt but still it's not cool.
And it's time to say happy New Year's to Iran.
Tehran.
Eshtahan.
Eshtahan.
Eshtahan.
And Bandar Abbas.
Brother I'm glad you took that one because I would have murdered those words.
Yeah my pronunciation of some languages is not so good.
I definitely grew up in this south.
My pronunciation of all languages including English is suspected best.
Oh you should hear me when I'm drunk.
So you were saying earlier you do arm development for Fedora?
Admittedly not so much now but I used to be heavily involved with the arm team for sure.
I helped with porting Fedora to 64-bit arm for instance.
And that's just probably what I guess three years ago now, four years ago.
And that was a rather involved project.
It took a week just about to do a build of GCC because we were doing it on actual hardware.
Actual hardware didn't exist yet.
It was done entirely within an emulated environment.
So imagine basically building GCC on an Arduino.
Yikes.
Yeah, that surprised me a little week.
Yeah it was definitely involved.
That's cool though.
I mean especially like I kind of feel like arm is the next big thing.
So that work will definitely pay off in the long run.
Well if you think about it in general risk gets you better performance than non-risk architectures.
And that's why Spark and Power give you better performance than Intel.
Yes they're both risk architectures and arm is also risk.
The only the thing is arm has focused on low power consumption which is kind of counter to high performance.
But now that they're starting to go after the higher performance they're definitely going to catch up with Intel pretty quickly.
And in fact 64-bit arm has caught up with Intel pretty quickly.
I can do a kernel build on 64-bit arm.
And about the same time it's like and do a kernel build on similarly sect Z on hardware.
I know just the difference of just on Chromebooks being able to run any sort of Linux on arm.
Five years ago it would have been a joke.
And now it's like respectable other than you know some packages you may have to re-compile because they're not built for arm.
But really I mean most of the stuff that I want when I do that is out there.
So I mean that's that's enough for me most of the time.
It's not like I'm playing and doing anything too strenuous.
But just the power savings alone and to me would be worth it to try to push towards arm.
Well one of the cool things about Fedora is arm is now a primary architecture.
So that means that every package unless it's something weird pretty much every package gets built for arm if you're running Fedora.
That's pretty cool. I never tried to run Fedora in arm.
To be completely honest I've only run Fedora a couple times on anything.
So might be a reason to check it out.
Well what Chromebook have you got?
I've gone through our district.
We're testing a bunch of them now.
I've got I had the Samsung generation.
The first generation Samsung Chromebooks they brought out which were terrible.
And then I've had the the Acer C720.
And now we've got the Dell 13 inches.
I haven't had a chance to hack around on that one.
And I think we've got a Lenovo one that is 11 inches.
I'm not sure which exactly that is.
I haven't got to hack around on that one either.
The first generation Samsung one was the one I used forever.
It actually was run at virtual machine with full hardware acceleration.
So you ran a virtual machine on the Chromebook?
Indeed. I actually demonstrated that at LLF a couple of years ago.
See now you're making me rethink trying to Fedora on that because that's what my I'm a teacher.
So my school district we do one-to-one with Chromebooks and we're getting ready to pull all those back in
because we're going to hand them a new one next year.
And so they're going to turn around selling for like 20 bucks.
You know, if I can get that kind of performance out of it,
I might just take one home myself and have a, you know,
just a little beater Chromebook rig that take around when I don't need something too heavy.
Although, I think I'll run a VM.
That's that's pretty much about as hardcore as I need to be.
I mean, we're not talking about, you know,
don't expect to be playing any hardcore games and set VM.
But, you know, but yeah, it'll run a VM as long as it's an ARM VM.
You can't run an Intel image on the ARM Chromebook and expect high performance.
It has to be native architecture to get KVM.
Right.
Yeah.
I mean, the heaviest gaming that I plan on doing on anything,
anything is probably going to be like net hacks.
So I think we're okay.
I can pretty much play that on, you know,
a couple of sticks that are up together.
Just fair warning.
If you want to,
if you want to do Vert on the Chromebook,
you'll need to run a custom kernel and a,
you'll need to replace the U boot,
the stock kernel and the stock U boot don't have vert support.
To be honest, I don't think I would need it,
but it's impressive that it could do it.
Like, it kind of changes my,
because I ran,
I think Ubuntu on it and I ran Arch on it.
Ubuntu ran okay.
Arch was a dog on it.
And I don't know why I kept trying to figure it out.
And I was like,
man, I don't,
it wasn't a rig that I was,
you know,
it was just kind of goofing around and I ran out of time
and I gave it back and so I never played with another one again.
So I might grab one next week when we go back
and just put the door on it and see what it feels like.
And I'll possibly walk off with one.
When we turn around and sell them.
That would be kind of cool that I have another,
just, you know,
separate to leave around places.
Let me know when you sell them,
because I'd like to get a couple of them again,
just to set up,
I actually want to set up a Vert cluster with them.
Basically, you set them up and integrate them
into an open stack cluster.
So I can spin up VMs on them that will.
Yeah, since we started selling them,
I will definitely hit you up and then,
you know,
since I'm going to be the person in charge of that in my building,
he would definitely be at the front of the line.
That's eight, two or three would be cool.
Like I said, they'd,
they'd basically would sit there in the corner of the room,
just plugged in the leads closed and doing their thing.
Well, I know my,
my building is going to intake about 500 of them.
Now, after the kids are done with them,
there's probably only going to be like a hundred of them.
They're actually usable.
After I part out,
the pieces that they've broken off of each one
to make usable units,
but they're not very sturdy machines.
The kids,
kids trash them quite often.
Well,
usable to me means the USB 2 port works,
the SD card port works,
and the screen works.
As long as those thing,
three are,
you know,
of course, power supply.
I don't even care about the keyboard.
I plug an external keyboard up to it.
Our biggest problems have been with them.
They'll break the screen,
and it's like super easy to fix,
and we'll send it off,
and it'll come back from repairing,
and they'll just have all kinds of problems with it.
Like, the Wi-Fi doesn't work.
So, like somewhere along the line,
when they were putting the screen in,
they ganked out the Wi-Fi cable.
And, you know,
if we open it up,
then we can't claim it on insurance anymore.
So, we can, like,
it's something I could fix in two seconds,
but we can't do that,
because it would be a problem.
Or the batteries,
the charge controller for the batteries
goes dead on them constantly.
That's, that's been a huge problem, too.
Now, I'd like to say they,
they said they plugged in all the time.
So, I mean,
the battery was pretty much at that point,
serving us as kind of a backup.
Let me look around and see what I got.
I might actually have something
that fits your needs before that.
This is just laying around
that we're parting out,
that I've got everything off.
I've got everything off of it that I need,
that, you know,
and do whatever with.
That would be cool.
Actually, as it happens,
I'm sitting in a hardware storage,
at the moment,
because I've killed
most of my hardware in various ways,
or I used to have some servers,
but I sold them.
And now I'm sitting here,
and I want to do a bunch of stuff,
and I don't have enough compute.
I have not enough computes.
Must have more.
Exactly.
Yeah, I've,
I've pointed around with the idea,
just a Chromebook is,
it's a new laptop,
because it's like,
it's, it's,
other than like,
think pads,
it's one of the few things,
it's just like,
guaranteed work most of the time.
You just put Linux on the alert.
Well, um,
that Samsung Chromebook I had,
um,
I went six months,
that was my only laptop,
uh,
I was running for the world on it.
Uh,
this is back when I was still using Fluxbox,
and Fluxbox,
and,
it is slow enough resources
that it,
it did everything I wanted
to do flawlessly.
Uh,
the only thing I did like
about it was,
uh,
internal storage is tiny.
See,
that's why I,
I had that, uh,
the Acer,
let's see,
720 or something,
um,
the SSD on it was so easy to rip off
and put a new one in.
I think it even had a hatch
for it.
So it was like,
if you wanted to,
that was the one of all of them
that I played with.
If I was going to buy one,
that would be the one I bought,
um,
because it was Intel, too.
So you didn't even have to worry
about the ARM thing.
It was, um,
it just ran,
but battery life sucked.
So I'm thinking,
if you could get something
that ran ARM,
uh, you might be able to get,
uh,
at least better battery life,
probably nothing comparable
to actual Chrome OS,
because it's optimized for that,
but, um,
at least a little better.
That,
the Intel would,
I mean,
you're talking,
it was rough.
It was like 45 minutes
to an hour and it was,
it was about done.
Well,
and I was running through
all my Chromebook.
My average battery life
was about eight hours,
or so.
And that was doing things
like listening to,
well,
actually I didn't listen to music,
because the Chrome OS
running didn't have audio support.
That didn't exist yet.
But otherwise,
you know,
doing normal everyday stuff,
uh,
doing the internet,
um,
building packages,
just compiling all kinds of stuff.
Just,
everything I do on a normal laptop,
I do on that thing,
and the battery would last eight hours
Yeah,
see,
that's what I would want.
Because the laptop,
I mean,
my laptop that I'm on right now,
you know,
it's my main computer.
It's what I use most of the time,
but it's plugged into a wall most of the time.
It kind of,
it's,
it's a laptop only in name.
It's not really portable.
I,
having something that has
that kind of battery life
would be much preferable.
Yeah,
now I'm going to,
actually,
it's an AMD based laptop
that, you know,
it's still into architecture.
And it's getting old.
It's hitting the
it's hitting the,
it's
hit the four-year mark.
And the battery in it
is starting to get dodgy.
I get about 30 minutes
battery life out of it.
That's not a bad run
for a laptop battery
if you can blow it off.
It's four,
four years is,
it's long compared
to what most of mine
have always been.
Uh-huh.
I guess I've been
kind of on the careful side
with it.
I'm not.
I just leave a plug
then all the time.
And
basically everything
you're not supposed to do.
I,
I,
I do.
So,
I,
I'm sure I've
all the battery
problems I've ever had.
So,
self-ghost.
Actually,
one of the cool things
about the Samsung Chromebook
is it's actually
possible to replace
the system firmware.
So,
you can actually get it
to be fsf3
if you so desire.
Really?
Is it,
I guess he's
core boot or
how's that work?
You can actually
put your own custom
you boot on it.
And now,
mind you,
this requires
all kinds of stuff
to the motherboard
and doing,
and doing some
tinkering,
and you have a high
probability of breaking it.
But, it's doable.
Sounds like fun.
That's one of the
cool things about ARM
is most of your ARM,
but ARM boards,
actually,
they're,
the bootloader
is the firmware.
So,
if you replace the bootloader
with, you know,
a non-binary,
then you've got a,
an fsf3
device.
Now,
and, like I said,
there are instances
where you can't
quite do that
because,
for,
in order to get the
thing to boots,
you have to use
their proprietary
binary blob.
But,
if you could,
if you didn't need that,
then you could replace
the bootloader
and go
fully free.
Wow.
Yeah.
That's a,
that's super cool, man.
Now,
I won't want to get,
because I just,
every time we get one,
like,
it's kind of a well-known thing
that,
they have everybody
tested,
like, the way a normal
person will use it,
and then they handed to me
and I, you know,
try to break it.
And,
I've got to play
with a lot of devices,
that way.
Nice.
Yeah, it's worked out well
for me.
But, I haven't,
I still not found
anything that I was 100%
happy with.
But,
I have not played,
to be fair,
I've never played
with Fedora on one,
and it sounds as though,
like,
you guys did a lot of work
to get that going.
So, definitely
not going to be a good shot, too.
Yeah, we,
well,
if you're interested,
once did a blog post
about it,
running Fedora on it.
This is,
admittedly,
I'm not quite sure
what the current situation is,
mostly because,
like I said,
I broke mine,
and so I have it
kept up with,
since then.
But,
if you want to run an older
store image on it,
I've got one available
for download.
I can put in the snow notes
right quick.
You just extract
a car of all,
a DDA to an SD card,
and boot off the SD card.
Sweet.
Yeah,
I would definitely,
at least put in the snow notes,
because that's a good
reference point,
regardless.
Kevin, I think
that's the unit we're
talking about.
Um,
I could be wrong,
but,
that looks exactly like
the one we're talking about.
It's very least,
I don't know,
internally,
it's the same.
It says it's got the,
uh, X and those five,
which is,
um,
the same exact thing.
It wouldn't work the same,
uh,
if it's not the same thing,
it wouldn't work the same way.
Yeah,
okay.
They've actually added a model
number to it that didn't seem
to exist before.
When I got mine,
it was just the Samsung
Chromebook.
It didn't have a model
number,
but yeah, this looks like it.
I don't know about
internally,
but I know, um,
they quit making this model
to buy,
so our schools had to
replace them with the,
the next generation,
the Samsung Chromebook 2s,
and, uh,
wow, those are built way
for generation.
Yeah.
That's the one.
So yeah,
when I did a link to,
the image you,
the file system,
image you need to run
through on it.
Now, like I said,
it's pretty old at this point.
And,
what was it?
I,
um,
the kernel I have there is
actually also missing a feature
needed to run something.
I think what it was.
I think it was actually
the wireless,
so yeah,
the internal wireless
doesn't work with that kernel.
Mostly you guys,
it hadn't been upstream yet.
But,
if you use a newer kernel,
you should be able to get it to work.
Um, I've played around
with building a newer kernel,
but I've been able to test it since
I haven't had a Chromebook test done.
If I get my hands on
another one,
I'll do a new kernel build
with, uh,
probably a 4.4 kernel
and give that a shot.
Now,
what I would like to do
is play with one of the newer,
I think there's a
64-bit Chromebook
ARM Chromebook out now.
And I'd like to play with one of them as well.
That would probably be a pretty decent
machine for running everyday Linux on.
This fair in mind that
all the work on 64-bit ARM
will most work on for 64-bit ARM
as far as
every day Linux is concerned
has been targeting the server around.
So I'm not entirely sure
how well the graphics stack would work.
Speaking of Samsung,
the other day that
Samsung single-handedly
accounts for 17%
of South Korea's GDP.
I don't find that surprising at all.
And Samsung is everywhere
in South Korea, man.
And they do everything,
like heavy loaders,
Samsung on the side of it,
refrigerators,
Samsung is just like,
surprise they don't sell cars yet.
Actually, apparently they do make
dark cars,
and they also make tanks.
Wow.
Then I want to say
I'm some tank.
That's, that's,
if it exists,
I have to have one now.
All right.
Guess it'd be about
the same Rome as buying
a new tank.
Well, buying a, say,
an Abrams.
I mean, I guess if you
have enough cash,
you could theoretically
do it.
You think my prime
shipping would count?
If I get on Amazon,
you think they'd
ship it over here for free?
Well, I rather doubt that.
I don't think they're
listening on Amazon.
eBay, however.
I have a seeking suspicion
somebody would put
some pressure on PayPal
to make that not happen.
Yeah, I think the feds
might take offense
to importing tanks.
Now, if you could get them
imported without the guns,
you know,
just call it an
alt terrain off road vehicle.
To be honest,
I'm not even really
thick.
The guns aren't even
the selling point.
It's just an effort
tank.
Just to be able to
mob around town in a tank.
I mean, that sounds awesome.
Yeah, that would be pretty
cool.
Right up until you
tore up other streets
and, you know,
from the dreads
and have to pay the town
and replace them all.
I've got enough money
to buy a tank.
I'm probably
said.
I'm probably okay
with that.
You have a point.
There you have a point.
Just get a piece of
five inch steel pipe
and weld it to the
front of it.
Only if when I press
the button it, like
shoots out a little flag
and says bang,
that would be the best.
That would be pretty
hilarious.
You could go
ski shooting with it.
And happy new year
to Iraq.
Baghdad,
Karloon,
Narobi,
and Addis Ababa.
I think if I'm
shooting skit
with a tank,
somebody is going to have
to fill in like
Volkswagen's in the air
for me to take out.
It's going to have to be
something substantial.
There is a YouTube video
of someone shooting skit
with a sermon tank.
And they are,
the skit are quite
large.
I can imagine when the
shells are like
six times bigger than
actual things you're
trying to shoot.
It seems
terrible.
There are a good
couple of feet in
diameter for sure.
Now mind,
with a sermon,
you know,
I think you're talking
about, well,
they had a range of
guns, but 75
millimeter would be my
guess is probably
what this particular
one had.
So,
large-ish, yes.
A little bit bigger
than your standard
hunting rifle,
but not huge.
They're not
lovin' mortars
and the skit
and stuff like that.
Now, the main gun
on a modern,
main battle tank is
going to be quite
large in comparison.
So, yeah,
if you get one of
the Samsung tanks,
just out of curiosity,
do you know
anything about
naval gunnery?
No, I do not
actually.
So, one of my hobbies
is World War One
Naval Technology
and Naval History.
Sounds worthy.
So, did you know
that your average World War
One battleship had
just as much networking
going on as a modern
office?
Really?
My,
the networks were all
analog.
I don't think
digital, but yes,
they existed.
That's pretty cool,
actually.
Like, it's not what
you would think at that
time would be going on.
But,
it is cool.
Yeah, it was a lot
of data transmission,
but most of it was
voice transmission,
obviously.
So, phone
systems,
and that sort of thing.
But there was also a fairly
substantial amount
of data transmission.
Now, is that
internal to the ship
or, like, ship to ship?
Internal to the ship.
That's cool.
But there were internal
communication network
on board.
I'm just thinking
about that period in time.
It's just, it's
just weird to think about,
yeah, they did have that
stuff.
Like, it's not
as, as fanci as we
think it is.
Like I said,
it was an analog
stuff.
But, you know,
it's not,
it wasn't, you know,
for instance,
I was sorry for this.
It wasn't radio-based
analog.
So, it wasn't, like,
say, a TV signal
that you could
really easily jam.
It was
applying various,
essentially it was amplitude modulation on a standard AC circuit so not
really something with that a lot of interference or really hurt depending on
which way you set it up now there were also there was also direct currents
data transmission depending on which system you're talking about and it was
definitely a mix see now that that kind of thing is very interesting like you're
talking about this and I'm like really now I need to like do some research on
this because that sounds really cool dreadnoughtproject.org I'll go ahead and
drop a link into the show notes so shameless plug I'm one of the editors for
the site I focus on the ultra-hungarian navy but depending on which
nationality you're talking about yeah all kinds of different somewhat
different methods of gunnery fire control for instance the British are
probably the best studied mostly is they're oh they had what is an
arguably one of the more successful systems and their system their
documentation survived that Germans lost a lot of documents during World War
II because well Berlin kind of burned it was gonna say I can't imagine how
that happened the Russians actually also carted off a bunch of surviving
documents and so researching the Germans and the Austrians is difficult as far
as the French as far as I know no one's really looked into them too deeply the
Turks generally bought their ships from other countries so whichever country
built the ship in question is the system that that ship would have wow there's a
lot of information this site man this is crazy we've been working on it for
several years now but like you said my focus has been on the Austrians and the
Austrians use a lot of German technology but they also their their
methodology was homegrown so like they use a lot of Siemens gear for data
transmission and Siemens relied on AC sink rows and I've actually gone and they
were at the Siemens there's kind enough to go and patent all this stuff back in
the early 1900s so you can actually go and look at the US patents for it and
see how it worked wow one time the patent system didn't suck it's probably
the probably the best use for it is actually doing historical research so because
you have to the standards or documentation are extremely high high enough that
you can reproduce whatever it is that's being patented so one of my current
projects and interest is actually taking the database or this wiki and
actually running it through elastic search and seeing how I can apply you know
modern computer science to historical research and I'm gonna probably write
up a few blog posts about that here in the next couple months that's pretty cool
I'm just sitting here looking at like I just want to fire control just to see
like what was there there's like probably a hundred two hundred blanks off
that page like there's a lot to learn I guess it's very it's definitely an
involved topic and I've actually submitted a talk on it at for a
library planet in Boston here in March so if I could select it I'll be giving
a talk on it when in March is that I believe the weekend of the 19th and
20th let me try to go to that fill kind of I don't know fill that empty void
where Nelf used to be feel bad I didn't go to it last year because I want to say
Ken Stark was there that was his last talking appearance I believe at March 19th
and 20th did he ever get something sort of out for his sent voice synthesis
stuff I know he was kind of struggling with it for a while was anybody heard from
I don't know I don't think he is at least nothing open source he might have gone
the proprietary route just because well to be completely honest working in that
sort of world there's nothing in open source they can hold a candle to the
proprietary stuff that's out there right now so I don't actually blame him for
doing so I would stick with e-speak I would make everybody listen to me talk
through e-speak because I can't because I'm a baller you know I can understand
that if you were somebody who had to talk to a lot of people and didn't want to
sound that way that you would have to go proprietary I actually don't mind e-speak
at all I mean I I used to listen to audio books there was a one of the audio
book programs for Android that basically just kind of converted everything to e-speak
and I used to listen to books that way and it was I had no problem with it and I
set up a little thing myself where I would use where I converted e-pub books
into text files and then used e-speak on the text file to create an audio file
and I know problem listening to books that way it just I don't know it doesn't bother me
but I can understand when you're working with children you don't want to frighten the children
you don't want to be the creepy robot guy trying to teach you about computers I don't know
about anybody else but that's exactly who I want to teach me about computers somebody with a
creepy robot voice in the eye patch that sounds awesome I have a silo on teaching my about
computers exactly that I'm down for but yeah I mean it's just until you like eat speak works
for me too but it's not my main mode of communication like there is in speech synthesis there's
whole hot better out there like it's crazy how good some of it is and there's just not enough
I don't know not enough need or not enough interest in doing an open source version that is that
robust I think I think Mary TTS kind of it goes that way there's a lot of work on it but it's so
kind of cumbersome and it doesn't really interface with anything so it makes it kind of hard to use I
mean it's got to be one of those things people try to get to work with things and then the second
they they start to fail they either oh well this doesn't work and then you know move on to
something else and then either move on to just e-speak or move on to something you know proprietary
but there's got to say from everything I've heard about Mary TTS it's it seems to be a very
a system because I remember we it was about two new years of e-speak where we're talking to Jonathan
Nato about working with I forget the program to talk to you have the computer talk to you
that's either way have that work with a new work with Mary TTS and it seems like if the people
have the time and effort then it should be able to get it to work and it seemed very robust and
it seemed like I mean but it's based on Dia Void but you can read if you read into it or whatever
you can actually use a person's voice as something and that's that sounds like a good base for
something in the bowl I mean I guess it's just gonna take time and actual dedication to get
something like that working yeah I mean it's got it's got a lot of things going for it I will give it
that but every time that I've played with it and and Brandon that's not a whole lot and so I'm sure
people have looked at it more depth than I have it's just the fact that it is its own and this is my
Unix brain not I can't pipe Mary TTS to something like I can't write a script to where I can
you know type things in and then it spits out you know audio like I can with festival festivals
awesome you know I can do that all day long I can set up I can take a laptop and set up a kid
who you know has done nothing with computers and I can literally write a script in five minutes
and I can type in stuff and the computer will speak it now it will sound pretty terrible because
it's you know only the engines that are working with it but as far as I know there's no way to
take a Mary TTS voice system like I don't even know what they would call it how they would like a
package of a certain voice and pipe it through something else I'm sure that something that is
is going to happen but I think they're just sort of starting down this path and so the more that
it gets the more traction it gets the better it will be the fact that it's open source makes me
a little happy because it means people can take what they're doing and move on and do it
and stuff um I think one of the big problems that a lot of people kind of are not using it is
it's in Java and I think Java it's just kind of something people don't want to deal with
yeah I'm not a fan of Java myself thing I'm interested in is kind of the opposite speech to text
that's an area that is pretty much utterly lacking in pre-saltware now I heard I forget where it was
I think it was one of the Jupiter broadcasting shows somebody brought up that the myocraft guys
that are doing that have gotten so much backlash from sort of the open source community that
part of their project is now going to be trying to develop some kind of speech to text engine
that is open source that people can self-host because they just don't want to call it out
um but you know it's all fun of games to talk about it but it's like when you actually have to
get down to the code that's where um it might be a problem I wish somebody would come up with a
great open source engine that that would be amazing uh I just don't know what the incentive would be
well supposedly thanks supposedly has had a lot of work done on it but I mean I'm a pretty
units and Linux savvy guy you know and I can't get syncs to work well my understanding is
is to get any kind of speech to text to be functional or at least good as you have to have enough
reference material for the program to parse through and so that's why Google's is so good is
because they spent all those years that everybody was using Google voice every conversation they
had was recorded and put to the computer so the computer could learn language and how it worked and
be able to recognize it I just don't think there's enough data out there to do it reliably I
mean I you could throw anything you want it into it and it would work I guess um but it's just
who's who's gonna do that that's kind of like my uh my historical research or documentation and
applying computer science to it you know the biggest problem I'm running into is a lot of
historical documents are not digitized in a way that's computer readable I mean at the best
you have scans in a lot of cases and you go and try to run OCR on them and well free OCR is not
that great and then when you toss in that it's a hundred plus years old and oh well and even
relatively difficult for a human to read that was uh that really adds to the complication so a lot
of uh filling in a lot of uh doing this project means going in and manually transcribing
historical documents and then and that's a lot of work yeah that's another thing like with OCR
like Google swears that their OCR is Tesseract and I'm like then what special sauce are you using
and why have you not upstream it because your OCR is way better than Tesseract is like because
Tesseract is not it's not that good like what are you doing there's there's some secret sauce they
got going on with it it's all right to bring up the conversation but I got to go on um I just
want to take this moment to um thank you guys for coming on here um when when 50 and I first
decided to kind of push this uh because originally I thought that this was gonna go away this year
that we weren't gonna do a New Year's Eve show but uh 59 kind of pushed for it and even then we've
got together kind of at the late notice so we didn't expect we didn't know what to expect for
people actually showing up so I just want to take this moment and thank you guys for showing up
and participating in this I appreciate a lot and I mean this has been the New Year's Eve show has
always been one of my favorite uh shows to listen to because it's just general conversation so
thank you all for uh coming thank you Taj for your help with the uh etherpad I appreciate a lot
I don't know where's man anytime you know that all right I gotta sign up and good I was gonna say
I was on last year and I'm happy to be on this year so thank you sir I'm just happy I'm
able to do it this year I'm at home I'm like normal thank you
playing hockey actually I've got a hop off for probably about 20 minutes myself I'll I'll be back
here shortly all right I'll catch you there now and I'm returned what's up and so it's time to
say happy New Year's to Greece Cairo and Cairo Athens and Bucharest I'm back oh no so has
there been any need to add spots to the mumble while I've been going oh I believe it's mostly
been handled oh okay I should be around at least until I fall asleep tonight which may be
relatively early apparently during World War One the British used oil marines command and
operate their turrets on their major warships yeah it hurts something like that
major france Francis Harvey saved HMS lion from blowing up by or during the turret be flooded which
killed him but it saved the ship and he got the Victoria cross for that well it's a very
commendable thing to do who's been in since I left a few people yep OCR sucks sorry I didn't
copy that I'll say I was lamenting that OCR is just pretty bad yeah I know they said when we get
we got faster processors then that would take care of it and still hasn't in 20 years and the
problem is when it's actually good enough to be humanoidable but not quite good enough that you're
sure that you know numerical figures for instance are completely accurate and then you have to
manually check everything and by the time you do that you might as well typed it in the first place
exactly however it is interesting reading this stuff chips of the fifth battle squadron
as far as it was far superior in gunpower to the first scouting group and the speed of the
slowest ships was such as to enable it to keep out of range of superior enemy forces the operation
however showed that the ships of the third squadron of the high seas fleet which was the German fleet
possesses an unexpected turn of speed for it any rate a short period the Queen Elizabeth class
are normally 20 knot vessels the official quarterly return of British and foreign war vessels
gives the Konig and Kaiser classes a design speed of 20 and a half knots I have always expected
that they might reach 22 knots for a short distance but the fact that the fifth battle squadron
was unable to increase its distance from the German ships when steaming at their utmost speed
comes as an unpleasant surprise and will give considerable effect on the conduct of future
operations it is quite evident that all German ships possess a speed much an excess of that for
which they are normally designed right and that's why the one the reasons of Bismarck the next
were so much a problem because it was at least as fast as any of the British ships oh this is
rule or one I'm reading this this is I'm reading from the official british longs well I mean
what I learned a little bit about naval history because every time I come across a ship in a book
or a movie or reference someplace I always look it up on Wikipedia see what I can find out about
it but one one interesting thing is the first you know British iron battleships you know
about to build about the same time as we had the main they had a huge problem getting
breach loading cannons to to operate effectively they couldn't get them to work right so they
actually had battleships with muzzle loading cannons in other words they'd have to bring bring
the cannons down over the deck and you know load them by hand with rams and stuff fortunately I
think they had that worked out just before world war one or they would have really been in a
serious disadvantage same thing with planes this is where all my time goes if I come across a plane
mentioned in an article or a reference somewhere then I go look it up on the on Wikipedia and
Wikipedia always says well you know this is a variant of this or this replace this or this other
plane or was replacement for it and it's just a vicious circle of sudden I've got you know 10
Wikipedia pages open on aircraft and coming home from town I encountered one of my pet peeves I
believe I've mentioned this before in a standalone HPR I had to go the only thing I needed in
town was in town was to grab a phone card for you know from my Walmart phone straight talk
to renew it before tomorrow and so there I'm walking across in Walmart and of course you got
to walk across traffic and saw a guy coming you know so I stopped to let him cross like again this
is my pet peeve I always stop for cars we're expecting them to stop for me because you know they
can they can cover the distance almost instantaneously so they don't really bother me walking but of
course would always happen you know I've got eye contact with the driver he can see that I'm not
going to walk out in front of him but instead of continuing the driver stops waves at me and I'm
waving back at him so we're both we're both waving each other and nobody's going anywhere and I
just I just totally sat here talking without pushing push talk yeah that happens once in a while
well it literally happens to the best of us because that's what Dan Washco does about half the time
hey he max is trying to analyze all this text I just piece it into it now I say uh Jay
Rulo sitting down in the lounge has he been there a while um I'm not sure he shouldn't have any
trouble joining the room if he wants to let me drop down there real quick and see if he's
having trouble moving into the room well he's muted so I guess if you'll he'll find a way to let
wave his hand at us and let us know if he needs help with anything indeed he's in Hawaii so he maybe
maybe just just about getting up hanging out on the beach maybe that's where I'd be yeah I've never
been to Hawaii yeah that travels a bit bit of a pinch you know plus accommodations once you get
there that's that's not a cheap destination it's about the same cost to fly to Europe and you can
stay in Europe very cheaply yeah I've gone over that a couple times with the last known god why
I guess I saw it someplace I think some of the northern countries actually from east coast to
like Norway is like 90 bucks but last known god says to think the trouble is everything once you get
there's is ten times the price as it is here what you do is you fly to somewhere where it's cheap
to fly to and then you take the local transportation to a country that's cheaper to hang out in
well I was about to say the same thing take the train wherever you know Europe is all connected
except for England and you certainly get there and welcome Seb Seb Seb Seb are you growing more
Seb's well England is connected by train if you think about it you got the channel well yeah yeah
I was I was thinking of that so yeah I would take train travel in Europe would be relatively cheap
testing hey Seb howdy howdy can anyone hear me okay and I'm doing this without my headset say
well see what happens really now it's not too bad it doesn't sound like too much like feedback
if two of us keyed at the same time it might be a problem oh yeah but I'll try this thing but I'm
not I'm so sure my head says and they believe I'm gonna be looking for it right now but I'm my
later just some like you've got a little bit of buzz going on but it's not too terribly bad we
can understand you easily enough yeah and the listeners will be able to understand you it's not
like you're wrecking the show or anything so yeah I think you're cool uh handsome pirate the other
day you were talking about being able to travel and stuff with your with your new new work so
how how is that going well right now I'm actually at my dad's place you know doing the holiday thing
I'm not quite trolling yet I'm but I'm planning on doing it next year for sure
probably starting around August because there's a store conference in Vienna I'll be going to
oh sweet so uh well no I'm not going with this app it's just to deal with the
server's names and stuff so different names Ellie and I go ahead and I was thinking about trains
right well what am I amidst your opinion it's by train and so is the UK by a channel time too
right we're just saying that would would fountain out earlier that uh I think it's to Norway
or maybe just about all those northern countries up there that the uh you can actually get a flight
if you book it right from the US to Europe for to dole in Europe at least for 90 bucks I would say
but I've been told once you get there it's it's very expensive so I you know first thing I would do
is jump myself on a train and go someplace where it wasn't although the trains uh uh they're not
cheap on the UK that it really isn't and apparently they're going up in price as well and
the service it seems a luxury but really it's not a luxury all you put in all of them first class
either and I've read that they go up again so you spend like just to go two hours you best use
spend they 80 pounds which is not that cheap on the train really yeah that doesn't sound very good
maybe maybe revise my plan to buy an old beater car or something drive across Europe they let
you do that but I think in on England to be able to put on the other hand I think the
my hands are sure but I think the train services are generally better as well and I'm cheaper
I've seen mentioned that taking a train from Vienna to say um I don't know uh Prague for instance
was like eight bucks US yeah probably possibly so I'm just once this kind of get released because
I think I've had the one the archive that it's going to come out if the number shows that right
yeah we couldn't promise anybody at all was going to show up so the way we worked it out with
kids is just they hey we'll just edit it you know we're it's it's I mean we're gonna try to do it
in a timely manner but uh you know we'll get the show edited and released and just
honky and I will release it in the normal in the normal schedule uh you know and in
instead of reserving slots for it actually you know we we haven't broke the server or anything yet
today but so far there's been you know enough to keep the show going for the most part
but yeah it's been done the other years but uh albuming number size as much this year but that's a
car yes well that would be possibly a bit more busy if I had been but at this time as well but um
save it then yeah I kind of dropped the ball on uh getting a promo out this weekend see we
you know everything's kind of been up in the air so it's you know unlike previous years we couldn't
go and make a promo and promo and make announcements two weeks ahead of schedule and know exactly what
was going on so we really didn't know uh exactly what we were going to do until this last weekend
and even then there were some changes that wouldn't if I'd gotten a promo out there were some
changes that wouldn't have been reflected in it because they were made later so um you know
I said we're just recording this and at the end of it I mean definitely we're going to have some
content so we'll see how much it is and break it up into three or four or five shows and just
recorded in the normal uh you know in the normal string because well for one thing I think most
of the people who are interested are probably going to be on the show sometime during the day
uh and you know people and there's probably not going to be a lot of people um to or just miss
the show and are just sitting sitting there with baited breath waiting waiting for us to be released
oh yeah that's true people probably actually come on who um are interested enough
and uh I don't know if anyone's actually listening to this right now as we as we say on this but
if you all come come come on get this off small people a little bit down yeah if you're listening
to this you put I'm sure you know the details but everything you need to know to get on is
on the website hackerpublicradio.org at least on the east coast you guys ought to get about
you ought to be done with the workday there and uh central it's you know it's light enough to
shag off the risks of the workday your boss is probably already left
yeah no here it actually is nearly you're saying that
nearly I've been using a uh we heard I've been using
yeah that quite sure I was going with that um a bunny phone uh a yellow phone um some sort of
crowd funded tech twice but I bought something interesting this year like that some sort of Linux
space something or whatever well I've definitely been using Linux based devices
I actually could play with bs free bsd here lately but I'm not going to give up my fedora
well yeah I've got to go ahead and have some part that was said said said I said why is that why
let me give up for no I fall free bsd I just like the cool flow and the way it works better
because I think the bsd is some some kind of Linux from passability layer for flash which
is luckily um being replaced by well no by opened formats and stuff instead the HTML5 and that
I'm not even referring to them the underlying tool chain you know at the command line I just prefer
you know fedora is better than free bsd's uh well actually the other I've tried a few other
bsd's as well um free bsd would be great for a storage server but running it on a laptop
yeah yes based I haven't really used it or I nearly finished it on a platform chain and
something and then there was some issues or something but it won't look quite all okay
but most people just think Linux and then bsd is there as well but not many people actually
bother with bsd you can hear about Linux in reality at all boss yes probably tried pretty much
I probably heard about bsd about the same time I first learned about Linux because I mean
actually I know why I would have but it was easier to find stuff about Linux even back then
I was being inspired by free bsd logo t-shirt at fos them but they uh
hasn't I mean I've got a event back sure but I can get a t-shirt gone on for another bsd
but then they have a stand there man but yeah there's um fos them coming up saying that next year
again the generally and also there's also um scale self-carol at above it's called um
and I want to mention that one personally because the uh was actually going to be a magia stand
that uh by event the American event this next uh in a few weeks and it's never had a stand in
America at any event so if anyone here is going to that which is probably a lot of listeners
to this actually that something you might be interested in one of our guys is going to be
running a stand there and this is called self self-carol conformier than its annual
experts in their scale it doesn't be so yeah I stepped away to get some uh soda um weird I could
have sworn you know just as I was pouring soda I could hurt somebody knock on the door um maybe
his ice machine making noise or something so I go out go open the door and there's nobody there
and I walk around the garage in a way there either so my imagination I guess however uh put
me just in the right position to to to look up as the uh bald eagle I've been seeing around the
house flew straight overhead so that was cool yeah did you say you were going to scale or just
letting everybody know about it no no there's one of our uh I met him actually it
was done in 2014 there's there's a we'll go out in America and contributor who's done
of our events as well so he's decided he's running a stand there so when it's never actually had
a stand outside so I was in the only way out well I haven't really anywhere outside
France or Belgium or Germany there's never been the magia stand so anywhere so this will be the
first time as well and it's in America had a my especially a lot bigger than fuzz and apparently
so I'm just sort of saying if any birdies go into that who's listening to this that there will
be a stand for that project there as well this time I'd just kind of cool too again and so that's
kind of cool but I'm going to throw there be quite a few people who actually uh listen to this who
would go to that event because it's the reason many Americans and stuff on on HBR well you know Adam
Williams in used to be involved with Manjriva and he's in uh he's in Vancouver Canada
he used to be in Vancouver I knew that now I know him because he does he's basically the
outdoor QA lead and so he's I guess you can say he's my boss within the outdoor project as much as
I have a boss and oh you're for doing best are you amongst other things my yeah okay
so you have to be a seed and going back to earlier that explains that even more
if 50 I'm not finding these cheap flights you mentioned well I know they came up here while back
I can't remember who referenced to to me but somebody had found them and also at scale uh
Lord D Matt Williams he'll be there and uh from eight from several podcasts that you
people like TILTS and uh folks will listen to and uh HPR and uh also Ryan Sypes who is the
chief technical officer for uh mycroft and we were talking about uh crowdfunding
few minutes ago mycroft AI is the home automation and AI uh system that's based on
the Raspberry Pi he'll he'll be there and I'm certain mycroft will have a booth so anybody go
on the scale uh look up Ryan and Matt and say hello for us again that sounds a mistake
and I'll see it full time as well there'll be uh set of known people here and there as well
something pretty much come every year but that's a good thing about these events that actually
as well as you get to meet um sometimes you get to meet some pretty interesting people who
you might have any really heard of from young nine world but then you get to meet them in person
oh yeah uh you know there's a lot of people have been wanting to meet for a long time that I met
at uh oh oh left this year and met other people at uh penguin con which is up there close to
Detroit uh met the cast from sunny morning linux review and so uh yeah now that I have the
opportunity to go I'm gonna try to make it to at least a couple cons a year it was interesting
a lot of the outcast planet folks meet up at oh oh left every year and every time I've gone
and so he's been interesting hanging out with them yeah uh I think it's it's getting more
more people go to self I think which is right mental weed harvest there's no way I'm ever getting
to self uh but you know oh oh left used to be the big one used to be where all the tilt skies would
meet up every year and the only one there this well I won't say that there was Joel and uh
oh one link uh blanking uh oh sorry I'm embarrassing myself by forgetting who I'm talking about just a minute
what so if it sounds like it's an American man I guess linux fest uh but was it
south east linux fest yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah it's had about a
now to call something like kind of new actually it was my first linux fest back when it was
still down in south Carolina mine was actually first then so it was good and I've gone to
a uk one as well and I'll be doing events the last few years well if you can um come August
if you can make it to Vienna come to flock which is the Fdora developers conference
hey come hang out um and I actually can't really do that one little because they pay money for travel
and so on otherwise I'm a bit bit plus maybe uh yeah as Alan Metzler's the other person from
tilts that I met and of course uh door to door geek and a bunch of his crowds so I've I've reviewed
that before but uh on different shows but it was good to meet those uh meet that bunch of people
and what I may do is take in different conferences you know every year and eventually get to meet
everybody I hope well that's interesting Microsoft is a gold sponsor at scale that uh thing
now I think I'm a sponsor uh yeah I think they're both sponsors out in events before the linux
maybe maybe even fuzz them or something like that but yeah I don't say I don't spy with me too much
but although to do Microsoft is apparently more fendy whether there's any way
well I'm matching I want to I want to uh invite everyone uh who's uh listening the show
to uh come to Kansas linux fast this this will be our second year looks like I think it's going to
be an early May this year so uh when it gets closer I'll keep everybody up to date we had a very
successful first year it's kind of under going to be under different management this year a couple of
the uh Wichita well essentially the what yeah other than everyone gets to an American event
so something like the planet event but uh thing is a cult that's that's quite far from the UK
and you know and planes are not cheap and they're loud so it doesn't really happen
yeah I'm pretty sure Klausuke uh went to the Libre planet this year uh he went to um the one in
Raleigh all things open oh okay you're right I've actually submitted a talk to Libre planet although
I don't know if it's been accepted yet or not let's talk about what uh naval gunnery fire control
in world war one and the data networks involved okay now that they have fire directors that early
they did actually and quite a quite an impressive data network in each ship you know transmitting
uh it was all analog it wasn't digital but they had as much in the way of you know big bundles of
network cable if you will as any modern business would and by side you are obviously no more
about this than I do I I guess what it was uh the uh I saw documentary on the hood versus the
Bismarck the other day and uh if you if you notice naval vessels on the sides of the bridge you
usually have these walkways that extend in the open air out you know at least as I add you the
ship is not a little beyond and what that's for is you've got a guy out there with a uh dial
essentially the in other words if you if you want to know your distance uh from another ship
and it's it's speed and it's course so you don't run into it you know you've you've got this
dial thing that's you know the guy on the port side the ship points his dial at the ship
that you're interested in and the guy on the starboard side points his at it and between those
two figures either mechanically or by you know doing the trigonometry uh they can they can figure out
you know where that ship is exactly in in respect to your own ship and you know the distance
and the and the exact direction and then of course by taking multiple readings you get the heading
in the speed of the ship and I think maybe some of the earlier fire control relied on that but uh
you know essentially the modern fire control you've you've got to deal sort of like that but it's
a turret so they can turn the thing all the way around to to uh face the ship that you're trying
to shoot at and it's far more sophisticated well your optical range renders were thinking about
basically a giant pair of binoculars and by adjusting them so that you make here two images
become one image you then get a thick basically you set the focus and when you know that when you're
focused at a certain distance then you're that's how far away you know whatever you're looking at is
and so that's how they did range renders yeah if you watch like the old war movies they'll have a
guide looks like he's looking into this uh funky pair of binoculars because the the tubes go
you know uh the lenses are way up above his head and way further apart than your eyes would be
so yeah they they knew how to line that up on the target and then they would they would uh twist
a knob until like you said the images merge or actually I guess one's the top half of the image
and the other's the bottom half of the image and once once they line up to make a hole they knew
they knew it would they were lined up correctly and from there you'd have the exact distance and
and the exact heading that's pretty much it and then they just did radar but that was World War
2 by that point uh but in World War 1 it was all optical of course the problem with optical is if
you have a bunch of smoke or such in such like in the way you know from battle damage or
what have you or from your own funnels that can make range taking a little difficult
and of course if you've got rolling seas so that your guns are going up and down then they're
I assume they probably had a calculation for that too to tell them when to fire um actually
by World War 1 they had mechanical means of compensating for that so as the ship rolled your guns
stayed steady oh cool um but despite that the way the way gunnery naval gunnery is described is
thing about this way you're trying to hit you're on a move you're moving at 30 miles an hour
and you're trying to hit something that's 20 miles away from you that's also moving at 30 miles an
hour and what might not necessarily be a known direction and you're doing it optically you
would say you're basically trying to hit a thimble that's on the horizon and you're trying to hit it
with a bunch of volts wagons right and that's why they usually try to fire a bracket and then
you know fire for effect once they got the range on them now despite all these issues so
the World War 1 naval fire control is actually reasonably accurate it actually worked fairly well
as evidenced by you know a fair amount of battle damage after jetlands uh I've seen pictures of
SMS satellites which is a German battle cruiser that made it back to port with the wholeness side of
it big enough to you know drive through I mean the other pictures of satellites in you know
steaming back to port after jetland and the bow is pretty much the deck at the bow of the
core castle is pretty much at water level it has it had something like 19,000 tons of water
I admit I think I read it was it was a huge amount of water it had in and state of float right
well they probably closed all the doors and ran the pumps pretty fast too one thing is the Germans
engineered their ships for survivability much more so than the British did and so the German ships
it took more effort for the Germans to build an individual ship but they could survive longer
and if you look at jetland the British had several battle cruisers just blow up while the Germans
both Germans did lose an armored cruiser but they otherwise didn't lose any major ships
well see they explained that's what happened to the hood uh against the Bismarck see the Bismarck
or rather the hood didn't really have any any armor on the deck because they weren't used to
having you know when that ship was built 20 years before nobody had a big enough gun
to fire a parabolic shot you know where it would come down straight in the middle of the deck so
they were they were reinforced against you know side hits on the on the hole in the superstructure
but nothing coming straight down of course you know that would make them vulnerable to aircraft as well
but uh and they talked about the uh you know how the battle was because you know he the commander of
the hood he was truck you know he was where he could shoot at the Bismarck of his front guns
but of course on your battleship you've got one or two turns behind the superstructure
and he was trying to make his turn uh so that you know he could unmask his rear guns as well
whereas the you know the Bismarck was coming perpendicular so to his turn so they could they were
already firing with all their guns and but the thing was the the captain of the hood knew okay if
I get this close then it's too close for a parabolic shot and so he you know there's a you know he
just about made it inside that window he was making that turn just you know just as the Bismarck got
in the lucky shot that blew him up well the thing with hood and it's like it hood suffered from a
design flaw that the British battle cruisers that Jotland also suffered from and that was that
you had an open path you had an open path all the way from the turret down into the ammunition
magazine and so if the turret got took a direct hit and something blew up inside of it that
fire got down to that magazine then your ship is toast and so that's why you had several you know
the British have lost several ships to it was essentially a one hit KO you know a lucky hit to
the turret and boom the ship's gone the Germans however had baffles in their turrets between the
interior of the turret and their magazine so they took a hit to the turret yes that turret was
probably out of commission but the ship wouldn't blow up now what about the fleet that we lost at
Pearl Harbor did they you know they were those battleships were fairly old at the time
did they suffer the same design problems not so much they just got bombed into submission
it was in a case of one lucky hit blowing up the ship they took a lot of hits and I'm always
amazed how they put most of them back in the service by then the war in one capacity or another
well American battleships are pretty well built and we didn't quite but I think I
caused shots of it anyway possibly if we have them quiet oh I was just I wanted to see if we
needed to add anything to the show notes and to do that I had to figure out where I was versus Zulu
time so I can I see that handsome pirates already made a notation in the show notes on the current
topic okay how about one I've been wanting to talk about is anybody seen any really good important
movies lately and I'm not talking about blockbusters where everything blows up but you know a movie
kind of makes you think yeah yeah I get I have actually so we're not talking blockbusters we're not
talking uh bigger effects or anything like that but this is actually on the BBC forever in the UK
there's a few nights ago I watched it the other night it's uh it was actually a nice landic film
so it's all uh a nice landic it's subtitled in English of course I watched it
English names called the deep which sound like for you come and film but anyway that's
you're based on a true story about what if it's a nicer boat topic in a way actually so basically
some guys are going sailing out on a boat off for the islands of Long Island and of course it's
sank and then freezing really cold water and they were biased up for one of them and he apparently
actually swam from where the boat sank back to the islands following like a school in this movie
and it was like in the 80s as well it was based on true story I said or inspired by
um and the reason he survived was basically because he was he wasn't just a fat guy he had some sort of
like uh special there's something that different about him so it was like a little bit like a dolphin
sort of say he survived because he was able to swim in this really cold water about six seven hours
and they weren't and then he knew he was doing so in the movie that goes up to a house and he comes
in and stuff and it was just interesting it makes you think stuff about that survival stories yeah
well that's interesting I assume there probably wasn't a whole lot of dialogue towards the end
in the movie there well they show they show you actually got it the end who does what's happened
to as well like when you want to play this but it was a good film definitely I'm sorry Gordon
sorry good evening a long time no see have it all this evening I was hoping he would join us
tonight nothing like a one-hand of my entrance have it all we were just talking uh movies when
you came in you probably heard that yeah I had the end of that discussion I don't know what movie it was
but yeah I held about that end but uh yeah well we're what we're uh what we're talking about is
anybody seen any movies that really made them thank lately you know movie found interesting and
it wasn't about you know a whole bunch of explosions and stuff I've been watching Archer but
I've been watching it specifically to not think one I just watched last night that totally blew my
mind was gone girl yeah that is a good one what's it about it's um I had to explain that
basically it's um the Ben Affleck his wife goes missing and it looks like he's he gets all the
press attention like he's the one that's killed it or whatever and then as as you go through it
turns out it's not quite as simple as that and Amy isn't dead she organized their own disappearance
and don't know what you got any spoilers but Rosalind Pike is amazing absolutely amazing and
blows some at the same time sorry to interrupt guys uh 30 15 seconds to new years yes in
while most of you're up leaving about any of the UK which is a hustling happy new year's everyone happy
year to Sweden and um yeah miss of well the rest of you up but well next no happy new year y'all
yeah happy new year so what happens to your name good good in your usual name that one uh basically I've
set a lot of up here and my certificate of mumble certificate is somewhere that can't be
bother finding right now I've just sent mumble up at the last minute I tried to sign in with that
woman it says oh that's a registered user okay so I'm going to have to go far for round and get
that certificate or you know what stuff that I'm just going to put a different name on yeah that's
why you're an extra sabre on this name is well basically I guess they're going to miss about
well the certificate's gone that I was on some old laptop all over this so yeah I'm pretty sure
that I know roughly kind of where it is it just can't be bothered I think that just now it's not
that bum right now my home partition is on its third or fourth laptop and of course the
downside of this is I've caught the lot of craft over the years and at some point I need to go
through and just get rid of a bunch of stuff that you know it configs to things I haven't used in
five years you know I would love some love it to some program I thought that you know that you
can probably do this and when it's I just have no idea how to do it the idea that once you remove
a program um for it to be able to say oh you've got uh now you've got a settings folder on that
and say your home partition do you want to remove that as well yes I know but actually that'd be
quite a good idea because I've only tried this program that don't really use any motion that
would be a good idea um or like no I'll come back to it later that would be that that'd be a great
thing I don't know if you can do it unless you probably can um yeah I say again I mean
that I mean no you speak like her for a bunny which let me use a slash now but that
those app get proud but I think that's more for the files not the home stuff but yeah it would be
here if there were like a command or something that just said I think it's what you're saying like
it would let you know um the five thoughts by the file or whatever it is that's in the home file then
the dot folder that's talking about isn't it yeah dot folders and dot files uh thing is I mean it's
one thing if the programs are kind enough to put those those settings folders inside your home
folders or at least you know kind of let it look it's either going to be a dot folder inside
home or it's going to be a folder inside dot config so at least you can go and have a look it's
maybe one of the two places it's just kind of annoying when they're ready to put it somewhere else
or either of that or they decide to call the folder something that you've been not and not connect
with the program uh like dot purple I mean what uh what is dot purple unless you know that was
pigeon it's like what's dot purple but to do anything that's because uh pigeon uses lib purple
yeah I've fair enough that there might be some connection but surely if the end user using pigeon
I'm not using something purple and then look can I make the connection unless they know that
say this is why you should just use arse because the config file is is that arse you can take
you know what and squash that just sounds so so good dot arse I love it arse
arse is great good and bell and gala kick shift the fuzzy was able to be a lot sorry sorry I didn't
catch that right back at you what was it you just said to me a bellic gala kick shift
yeah happy instead of you as well uh I'm not idea what you're saying anyway well I guess not then
well uh so when I was younger I decided to learn some gala you for you know for all for all I know
that could be absolutely perfect gala because I don't understand gala gala so yeah it could be perfect
gala and making congratulations on your on your perfect gala oh I thank you sir right so um
changing the subject of statement reminds me much um but uh yes every year nearly has anyone
has a like kind of interesting chaos of myself I've been buying certain devices this year that are
uh it's actually nice to get something that was cloud funding as well because I I bought the um
remix mini uh which was there like cloud funders android pc a company who was
panning started by three who were employees as well on their Chinese and they cloud fund
with a remix arse tablet so the xrs is basically android but it's been modified to be more like a
desktop pc and with an OTG device you can stick in a mouse and keyboard and things like that
so we're hard to ski or stand on our list and so on but I received this stuff no problem
but I'd also cloud fund the another tablet where um I basically go into the mistake of um when
I couldn't plan it to be in because I wish you were the kind of mistake oh you know well I was uh
not quite sure what what this was I was kind of taking a chance to get sort of cheap
but I want to um I think in the buying patreon possibly ready to get sent to these things
and then the sky is trying to offer me a discount and then I'm like hang on I actually want to buy
this really kind of push me into buying it so I basically got my mate in parenting the pool but
when this particular companion I don't quite trust it either because it lacks certain um
information and for example where is the list of contributors who would pay for patreon
I don't see it on his website and so kind of let me crowdfunding to be a little bit careful as well
and let's put this point in as well is I funded the um your tablet last December and now they've
been having some investor um issues so I'm really wondering if I'm going to actually get that
your tablet or not because some people have it I've had it already but I have I have more
than many who have not so uh there's a bit of fun crowdfunding I think it's better to gamble some
people would say because you can make putting the money out something a bit really know what you're
going to get in return um but I don't have a hair saying that crowdfunding they tech tech devices
so really and what do you think of doing with crowdfunding in general that's kind of a question
to ask now I was going to say just um going on anything that's that's hardware uh like some sort
of computer which phone as a tablet is a pie is anything like that um you're always going to be
for the small start-up I mean canonical are still quite small on the ground schema things but
but decent size but are small on the ground schema things and the problems they are having with
the trying to get hardware um built enough numbers to get it cheap enough to make it a
thought to make it competitive you're in your down any kind of crowdfunding with computer hardware
you're always going to be at the nursery and there'll be much much more down the tune than
canonical is um so you're always kind of going on faith that that company a start-up
can get um any manufacturer has to build 100 devices or 500 devices or whatever because
most of them just won't even look at that they're looking in the and the millions of units
which even canonical couldn't do yeah but um some of these crowdfunding things they work out
fine you actually get your things but as I've learned and now as well as you can get an issue with
people who are those be sending your device out because it's as a I mentioned one tablet I
got no problem from uh the Chinese companies I buy before you give them toys or whatever it was
I've got I've got their thing from last year that was a perk I've got the thing from this year no
problems there but another one that was smooth as I was saying I basically said to this guy oh um
I'm a bit unsure I'm got what I'm buying here but I look at my buy it because
if I see the kind of discussion there's many kind of more disalamy more stuff and I kind of send
to email and said yeah okay I'll actually buy that and I thought hang on there no I don't know
this extra stuff actually try to get out of it and about a month later he when he's supposed to
send me out these devices emails back and then it's like no sorry I won't send anything out
to you at all unless you basically pay up and pay the side of stuff so so I paid something
already for you and you go go and it's just he's just you know I've got nothing for that so far
I've been bit like you know why bother getting to in the go and say something
apparently they don't really help or do I um I mean I don't know you know you know it's like
I've even lost a hundred pounds and got nothing for it or I take or I get back to his emails
and he probably tries to get more money you don't make them and then I have to think of the
actually going to send this thing out that's the kind of situation they're going to or because
they're going to email the station which was a bit so really about you learn from things like that
I mean there's two different issues there there's one that even with the best intentions
companies are they can put together these proposals and then once they actually get their
get their money in this area okay let's go to a factory an owner of a factory so it can you
build these but now you've got the money to pay you and they find it's harder than even the best
intentions they find it's harder to get people even do the stuff for them but that's a separate
completely separate thing from possibly someone trying to change the rules and there might be
a force to change the rules who knows it might be it might be a scam that you've happened to have
been sucked in who knows it's two two sort of separate things I'm just saying it could be the
that it's been harder than they initially thought once they've actually started doing it
and they're trying to find the way around the right it I don't know yeah that's what I mean
that I've started to think this to be that maybe this one wasn't actually genuine it maybe
was a scam because he would do campaign itself was it was like you're going to you pay this you get
cheap tablet you can upgrade and you get a little bit more you get a case you get storage upgrade
and you basically fell 100 so I thought I get it's 100 it's not that much
doing this but the campaign itself lacks certain details some of the red pages were broken
also swiftly said for the patron part but she was offering to me at this counter price he said
like if that you don't have your main part of the website and your company but there's no
bad page of people who will pay the patron okay so that may be things a bit it's a little bit
hmm and then the other thing as well is in the in the daily campaign for the patron
perk it basically said as well if you buy this you get a Google Play gift voucher and
whether it was but then from my email discussion I found out that actually this Google Play gift
voucher was basically useless unless you're in Singapore hence why he's offering a discounted
price apparently because you're basically selling them anywhere since Singapore the campaign
lacks certain detail there was more clear it's like this basically being a different operating system
slightly which apparently is only really an app found or something it was a very very I found
that move from my email so this person but it doesn't seem quite right so it's like you know
so he's got 100 for in the video either just say well okay I've lost that 100
or I get back into email discussion or something and I put a lot of money towards it which is
probably a bit silly really or I go to any day where I'm going I don't even know what to do about
that long all I know is it's been a few months now and yeah right let me get that straight so
this was supposed to be a hundred bones and and return you meant to get a tablet is that right?
yeah so 100 so that's the tablet itself which was quite cheap slight stores upgrades
slight stores upgrade and a case so 100 and then he was supposed to send this out to me back in
say September but because there was an issue claiming it on through his system I got into some
sort of email discussion with him instead and then he's trying and I was silly I said oh I was
going to put you by a patron and there's going to buy more stuff which is a bit silly to do in
email discussion and so on from there and he's trying to offer me a patron and discount and I
sort of said yes eventually and then I tried to get out of it and then he's basically refusing
send anything out to me at all including what I'd already paid for that's the that's the issue
apparently there's a parcel and Singapore that he does not want to open up and send out
need what I pay for basically so what I would look at there is compare the spec of the tablet
that you're getting essentially 400 from a start-up from maybe a two or three personal operation
and think compare that to a company like Amazon or Google or or tell this or extent Tesco or
something like that you know companies that can can get millions and millions and millions of
units to bring the price right down on bulk and compare the price, compare what you're getting
for the money and for me I'm really looking at that and going can they kind of one person or
are you in a two or three person outfit with just a start-up and doing 100 units at a time can
they possibly get that kind of that kind of value and so that kind of price what really
yeah I mean I agree with that as well the reason I crowdfunds it in the first place is
particularly one was because it was apparently different from your standard Android tablet
basically didn't stuff about that I was cheap so but it's not going to be cheap if I don't
get another say another 220 pounds just so you can send me another two of these things cross my
stands plus whatever you're else you're trying to send so it's not cheap no no no like 300
is even 20 pounds and I think even I don't know convinced the home sender this person actually
necessarily send that and you probably would do but now you say they might be a scam my author can
some people at my innards use a group and stuff like this about this one the four as well
and saying this one was like actually this could be a scam and when you think it through I guess
it could be and it's just the internet it's just a crowdfunding site and it could be pretty much
anyone really I mean that's how it works isn't it really in the game kickstarter it can be pretty
much anybody on there really clearly a scam that's how it works for you isn't it I mean the
chunk of that I'm full but now well yeah I'm actually backing my first kickstarter project here it's
if I remember correctly it's a $15 or 64-bit armboard so I'll figure I figure if it crashes and I'm
out 15 bucks so again you look as this cheap but that what you sang though yeah it's a it's a
cheap arm 64-bit armboard yeah but as somebody from my list of shoes a crew of action said to me
when I was saying about this issue he sort of said like all the crowdfunding was a bit like
giving their money to the bookies you don't really know what's going to happen to it and
you know I know I said to him right oh but what about when it's been all funded and all
rest of it and then he was like yeah but then they might get issued with manufacturing and
you know sort of really must try and say here as well right and then with the manufacturer issues
that has been and I know two campaigns who are coming to know because of manufacturing issues
but I'm not too early about those but what I don't like is when some of the basically refuses to send
what you will be paid for just because you basically said to have additional stuff they
tried out of it that but I suppose it's the innocent you can do pretty much whatever you want
for it really I think with kickstarter there's a kind of correlation to spam as well and think
about it the reason that spam still exists is because there's always new people coming on them
and they all the time all the time for for all the people who who are used to spam they've gone
delete it just I know it's spam I'm not even going to click on it there's always somebody new that
says oh well that's well that's interesting they click on that and the thing is it's this I'll
look at the same with crowdfunding there's still quite a new concept to the mainstream that so many
people are not on that for years don't email for years building websites for years but quite new
to the to crowdfunding anything so they don't necessarily know what they're looking for how it
spot a scam and let's face it when there's money if it's an easy sort of gold pot to put there
honey pot to put there to get it to take some money and over the course of a month or whatever
all they need to do is and I think with some of them they don't get the money unless it is fully
funded so they're just a goal that's going to be easily achievable and then just keep
for them people off there's when there's money to be made easy money to be made and they know
that as a it can be at times I can allow us to own the different
different laws and different countries and part of us and all that kind of stuff then hey it pays
while it pays people will go there and when there's money to be made people will go there
I've had pretty good luck somebody mentioned a minute ago 64-bit
armed boards at the remix mini or the pine oh that's the problem that's the one I'm looking at
yeah I I did the Kickstarter for that and several weeks ago I got my remix mini which is
essentially the same processor it's I mean it's really the only difference is that the remix
mini is sealed up inside a case and uh that you know I'm sure you could hack it but by default
and androids the operating system it's billed as the first Android PC which really is entirely
accurate because I remember you know seven eight years ago we had a flood of uh androids laptops
or not laps well it would be laptops but uh you know like many books on on the market so
but it you know for what it is what's supposed to do I reviewed it a few weeks ago on
Linux lugcast I you know I'm I'm more than happy with it for the price I'll probably be the
media PC for the bedroom computer once I get it hung up I miss like I miss some of good stuff
before law that because I was changing room but um I think we're saying how it could be a little
less place and yeah but the remix mini that that's that's why I crowdfunded when I said
out of the I crowd fund the ball and I was made there's no problems I for this one I'm very happy
actually because um okay they're done on the previous year the remix arrest tablet which
um was a per if it said you can get that as well so for like I do not I got the um the
but then I was basically in the survey about the colors of the tablet and having time and
trying to sell what color to have it was a little bit vague and they made them and you know
like oh well supposed to fill in the survey by kickstarter and I haven't done it and they used to
be my back and like oh just some of sort of shipping details and I'll be freeing and did that
have rain mailed some rain mailed we're gonna ship it out it got shipped out very happy um
and those are Chinese company all at the start by three excellent employees the remix
service people to call giant tech um where's another Chinese company I dealt with earlier this year
and that was not crowdfunding I was actually at my zoo for the Ubuntu thing I um was not impressed
with them because I personally I got sent me one I sell on the thing I want the gold colored phone
I've got the silver phone okay it's just a color a bit still I tried to email them about that
and the sponsor sort of like um have you got a tracking number have you got an order number
the English that the scent was pretty much useless because I wasn't even an order number on it
and well I didn't really do a Ubuntu filming or anyway definitely we're just trying to
trying to out see what would happen and get some more sales because they've got their own
um flying the OS based on Android and they were Android and then there's be sure we're
costing your Bentley phones but um I again I wasn't don't have people to compare the OS
leader for another reason because uh I actually unfortunately actually one of the first people
to get an Ubuntu phone can actually be available Ubuntu phone but also one of the first people
if not the first to actually lose the Ubuntu phone because I've been traveling in the summer I've
been over in Sweden I've come back from the airport don't long early back got home back five in
and you know you got your travel timetable now on the drive of the house or something
so without that I didn't know until then yeah that's my beauty of that new phone so I thought
I'll try and see if BQ would help but it was off-shot I mean I don't even think they would
help because they just want you money like paste companies but I contacted them and they were like
how are you doing I didn't do what I'm sure and saying uh or or wanted and was like no but
the interesting thing here actually is that if you have gone through the BQ
wanting to insurance thing that they try and sell as well and your phone gets
violently stolen and you've got so a police report saying that they'll actually give you a free
phone they'll do the new phone full of charge you know from all the things you can be able
canonical I've been to I'm sure that losing your phone isn't one of them that could have
was going to happen regardless of what kind of phone it was but I say that again I'm saying for
all the things you can learn that canonical losing your phone isn't one of them that would have
happened to any phone no it's not for me of course I was just saying yeah I was saying it was
clinical as a BQ felt whatever I'm just saying that it will be I was trying to say it basically
is if you have lost your phone or whether it would be nice if if we were having to come to a network
helped you out a bit more than their team that rarely happens so yeah you basically have to buy it
again or we'll sort of think okay I lost that phone let's get another phone yeah fifth point
fifth point I mean I got a new phone that start them on for as well so I'm quite pleased to
mind it's not a big deal no it's also quite pleased with you so what was family got next is six B
taking part as the neck to be able to put different operating systems on there or
no at the moment I haven't even rooted it yet let alone run but I like the stock I'm right though
so the only thing I'm going to do is a router oh no I'm perfectly happy with that
well we were talking about our crowdfunded projects I also funded the
microft AI because I know Ryan Sipes from Kansas Linux Fest those aren't supposed to be out
till spring or summer sometime and I'm promised Ryan that sometime this fall I would come
go back up to Lawrence Kansas and interview him because I know where they're you know where
they're prototyping them we you know we had one of the events at their maker space so that's
something I guess it'll have to be a resolution yes Ken I owe you a show for that so you know I'll
be headed back up there hopefully this month maybe I'll make time the other one I don't know if
it's ever going to get here I funded the witty board now I'm going I would logically be one the
last people to get one from the funding campaign because it was already fully funded when I got in
they were still selling them through the through the funding in fact the production ones were
actually supposed to have more memory it was kind of going to wait on them and then you know we
had the whole FCC thing come up and we are wondering if we were going to be able to get single board
computers so I went ahead pull the trigger on it but you know as far as the company's communications
it's just strange because the first first that government went out and instead of giving
sending every people every person individual tracking number they put them all in a spreadsheet
and put everybody's name and the tracking number down on there and it came out you know somebody
complain because yeah you could you could put in the tracking number and get the address and then
of course the name was in there so the second batch it came out about three weeks later they said
okay so we've replaced all the vowels in your name with x's so that'll do you know that's our
security but still the same thing everybody in a spreadsheet and then after that last email
I've seen with them was like a personal email from the manager of the project saying hey everybody
has to send me a phone number to my personal email before before you can get your witty board
so I just didn't reply to that if they're not going to they're going to mess around and not send
it to me it just isn't worth it I think the issue here isn't crowdfunding it's about looking at the
being a bit more cautious of the individual sort of people behind a specific thing like if they've
just set the website up just now the website it's like badly thrown together is there a reason for
that what can I background to the people have you need to kind of do a bit more research before saying
yeah it's working out whether you think that they have a realistic plan that they can deliver
what they say they're going to deliver and you know if they can do it on budget and on time and
or something like that they had success before and they if they haven't what was the reasons they
didn't have it before was it a good idea that just didn't take off or do they have that more
kind of homework rather than just being dazzled by the product itself and thinking oh that product
really could be create effort to go off well I've generally been lucky where the crowdfunding there
was actually a a a a actual product associated with now you know a lot of this stuff the the whole
idea of crowdfunding is hey give us give us this money and we'll we'll build this product and
you'll be able to buy the product later and I'm too selfish probably to get in on that I only
do the ones where you know I'm I'm actually going to have something I can hold in my hand or
piece of software or what you know the premium is actually a physical or or digital product of
some kind and like I said I've had and I'm not saying I won't get the witty board I think they
are selling them retail now it's just that mine hasn't ever shown up yet you know for some reason
I thought that I thought you'd say the mitty board has a molten mitty and then I was trying to
think what molten mitty was actually famous for it was a varnishist going I don't know if there's
I don't know if there's a connection or whether I'm just making a connection that doesn't exist
I'm sorry I'm assuming everybody knows what I'm talking about witty board w i t i it's cut it's
kind of like a a banana pie router board which I also have here sitting on my desk and finally
got working but it's got a MIPS processor it's got a couple it's got four radios rather than two
so you can do both two point four and five gigahertz you know both for your own stuff and then you
could have a guest system so it's it's mainly oriented at building your own building your own
router running open wrt but it could you know it's got to say to port and a bunch of other connections
so you could you could turn it in to just about whatever you wanted to and for sake of it what I
figured out I was doing wrong on my banana pie board because everything I'd seen said you know
okay then plug it in your network and it'll show up as a new device and I don't know I would
have thought if I'd plugged it into the LAN port maybe I was just an idiot plugging into the LAN
it would have showed up on my router you know would have tried to grab a IP address off my router
now the video must you know it's also got HDMI which must must be on the open wrt downloads perhaps
that's disabled by default I believe probably can be enabled I've seen a lot of these that they say
okay yeah once you get into it then you can change the configuration file in root that'll that'll
let it you know run the video so I think definitely since I can plug a keyboard in the mouse
directly into it I mean I think that'd be great to have a router that actually you didn't need to
have another computer to get into it but I could digress but I finally figured out that yeah I could
if I plugged the LAN port into my laptop then you know and look at where it's getting IP addresses
from then I could then I can browse to a login page so the the destroy it the open wrt is working at
least the one that I've tried at least as far as getting to that point I've you know I need to
mess with it some more because apparently I don't have the right password I think it one place I've
seen root and root and that didn't work and root and blank didn't work so we'll see but yeah
I'll be able to do some experimenting with using a single board computer as my router and getting
some more security just beyond the regular firewall installed so look forward to that coming from me
in the next month or so yeah you said something there about baked boot to a root that you don't
need another computer to access it surely what else would you be doing with that because I mean
you're looking at something that you need a monitor you need a keyboard and a mouse to power up and
get into it directly I mean for me a router isn't a router meant to be something that you set it
set and forget you just set it up and just you don't need a screen you don't need anything connected
to it just does what it's meant to do and you only need to get into it as and when you need to fix
something or update something or something like that I mean do you only need a keyboard and a mouse
and a monitor all set up or plug it in just for that I would have thought an easier way would be
you know just browse to a web page and that's your config screen well it's not that I would need to
that you know but sometimes you hack around on something and you find out it's the computer you know
it's it's on the end of the computer you're using to get in rather rather than the device so
yeah I think there would be there would be cases that I would like to go directly into the device
it won't be as comfortable I've got some 20-inch monitors that I got here cheap for around cyber
Monday and they have HDMI straight in so I'm thinking yeah I go back to utility room and hang one
of these on the wall and you know and use it use it as I need for either this banana pie router
or you know I'm I'm setting up other network monitoring stuff on an RPI that'll probably
be headless most of the time then I'll be SSH-ing into but you know sometimes things break and you
don't know why and it might it you know I think there might be utility and just being able to get
in there on bare metal to see what you're doing I'm also probably I'm the other thing I want to do
by setting up my own router is to do some traffic monitoring using something like snort
on the same system so I mean what what I'm the goal I set for myself early this fall
and it's it's more education for me than any real utility but you know set to set up my home
network with the same types of security that somebody who you know was a web host or somebody
like that would have you know to go in with using what tools I can open open source for for a more
professional level of security than what you just find on a on a consumer router and plug in
let plug in forget it like you said Gordon you know an interesting sort of thought occurred to me
over and you see at the links I actually show a few weeks ago when they were talking about
a red flag Linux and all the different things that the the North Korean government have done to
red flag I think it was extra sessions that if you tamper with X with whatever files it would
just go into a reboot cycle and it just wouldn't let you tamper with those files there's demons running
that are recording everything and redirecting the search results and things like if you put
any documents with certain words on them it would just delete them from your file system and stuff
and it was just thinking this is again a stuff you would expect from proprietary companies
that this is this is basically open source being used against the people being modified by some
insane regime and used against the people that's that's not right that's not the spirit of open
source but hey legally they ain't doing nothing wrong as long as they're contributing back they ain't
doing nothing wrong well one article that I read for last week's KPO which hasn't been posted yet
but just seems crazy apparently in China they've implemented a program so part of your credit
score is based on whether you say anything bad about the government on social media you know so if
you're if you're in China and you have you know your Facebook page is all full pictures of
Tiananmen Square or whatever you ain't going to be able to to get alone for the you know for
your new toy out or whatever they have yeah and to thank you as well as I say this is this is
as far as I'm aware these are going to build on the open source technology it's just they're being
built I mean just because it's open source doesn't doesn't say anything about the intention of
what the software ads is on how it's used it's just a shame that it's going to use the
against the people what yours well the my experience was something like that and I was never going
to use it for anything you know sensitive anyway or have it on when I was doing anything fine
financial you know trans words credit card number'd be going through but there were some cheap
tablets made for a phone company in Europe and they eventually sold them but they you know but
they were running true Linux however it was reds red flag Linux the Chinese version of you
boom to and of course these things have been out two or three years so when I got it you you
know if you try to do an update the the repositories weren't there anymore so and I never I never
could get deep enough into it on a terminal or whatever to to change anything I couldn't I couldn't
edit the app sources to change to a different server so it was kind of an you know and it was
it wasn't a touchscreen interface it would be like probably what we'd have if that if Apple
been successful in you know using patents to keep anybody else from having a touchscreen it was like
to you know right and left scroll and up and down scroll almost you know you swipe across a bar
on the side of the screen so yeah not on the screen but external to the screen so it was an
interesting little device to play with for a while I didn't spend that much money on it
but on the whole it was kind of disappointing not being able to make anything useful out of it
I think the concept that kind of as an onyx user that kind of spoke me more than anything else was
we are all used to the difference between root and the user we can understand that and we expect
to be root users on our own systems and that you should be able to delete anything with root
even if you don't know what you're doing you end up deleting some system filing a system doesn't
you should at least be able to do it and it's just the idea that even if root there's just some
stuff that's kind of a level above that that you can't even get rid of you can't even modify
which is really sort of scary and I think with this device I did was able to put Bodie on a
USB stick and boot into a live version of Bodie because everybody everybody said that's what
they were using on it but I couldn't I couldn't get in anything that would let me install it over the
the red flag Linux so that you know I was hacking around with that for quite some time trying to
make it work okay was everybody else got for you know new new devices since last year you know
outside of crowdfunding you know what everybody have any cool single board type stuff or anything out
of the ordinary that they've picked up yeah well I want to add two things to the crowdfunding
thing over there and I do have something else outside crowdfunding I'll mention as well so just
quickly also does this like to chip line down a mini PC thing and you get like a pocket chip comes
with that that being then stick into a TV some people have this already went for a may because I've
said to have the additional things so I think that's going to plan the that one we've got that
again that emails I've received so that's nice and but also the Arduino board like a like a game
board for gaming that was a crowdfunding thing for the way into next year again for this film but
that should be interesting your Arduino I don't know if people will do anything with that
and also findable a Firefox OS phone the other month and yes I know that now it's official that
Mozilla are giving up on Firefox OS as a film operating system I think palace comic can we continue
having it on their TVs but that's about it really but it's nice to have Firefox OS
as well that really cheap on Amazon actually Amazon UK yeah fun I came home and found the just
sort of looking around and it's suddenly jumped down this rabbit hole of um I was in
tornt free not saying about either kindle fire TV thing if I code it and I'm like oh that's
actually quite a good resolution for 35 bucks that actually sounds quite good and I would just
started stumbling down that rabbit hole tonight and I thought oh you know what I'll just get a
drink and come on here for a while so I might be I might be keeping my own one of those check out
and see see if it looks quite decent that that as a as a TV box looks quite nice especially the
first place yeah Amazon fire TV with code and apparently there's a tool to break it and put
code on it because Amazon obviously don't want you putting code on there but yeah 25 bucks for that
with the remote and apparently it works rather a treat with code yeah maybe but it's just to
customize and in face I think really Amazon we get used to their apps well it is but that's yeah
what basically if you need the tornt free article that Amazon were apparently selling out and
even retailers here like Curry's and PC world and that they were selling out as well and the article
it says when they've been having their report or event and they're local I think it's Curry's
in London the person behind the counter says oh are you looking for this for code and this is
like a regular Joe just average Joe public working on that in an electronic shop should never have
even heard of code and then she's unprompted asking are you looking for this for code is like how do
you know that code because because everyone's buying this all of a sudden for code I'll really have
to check into that because that gives them at least in a way that gives them a big leg up against
you know oh the chrome thing I'll think of a minute you know because I've got several
those in fact chromecast yeah because the old the old version the the the non five year hurts a
2.4 gigahertz black Friday they were like 20 bucks so I you know I grabbed four of them
because I've you know I'm eventually planning to put TVs almost in every room of the house the
house is wired for since it's a new house but and shamelessly got some really cheap TVs at the same
time but yeah that if to try to get you know if you put code on it you can almost get everything
in there at once because I know Gordon you'll be cross with me I'm using I'm doing Amazon Prime
but I'm doing it on my no name smart TV and I remember you and Kevin a few months ago I think
talked about that and said well that you know why would you let something on your network that
you have no idea what's going on in there well I'll say this much as you know I had never
thought about that the fire any Amazon products at all I just thought it was this kind of
hokey kind of walk down the version of Android I wouldn't touch the tablets for that reason
might be maybe decent but the fact that they block off even they don't install a play store and
just just never really a cut to me and then but yeah check it out turn three one of the last four
or five articles or something on turn three it goes into the that's that's where I got it from
apparently there's this huge rush on everyone's wanting that fire TV Amazon have sold out everyone's
sold out and it's all because the carts out of the bag essentially and that that walks a real
treat by Cordy and yeah so check it out yeah I mean yes believe that I've just for fire
iOS this and that but I pretty much you can all do exactly it's because I just I know
it's just Amazon staying with the customized anger I mean saying that that remix iOS
we were talking about earlier that is okay that's a customized Android thing as well and there's
loads of them out quite a few of them out there but these are really that's something interesting
and different Amazon is just a band and it's just a big company and so yeah Firefox
it fire TV but the fire iOS tablet is quite cheap so my mom kind of needs a tablet so I don't know
maybe she'll get something like that eventually but what I was going to ask Cordy and I will
now for anyone outside UK for any much or probably be like what what what what we were talking about
but I'm good now because of the 90 very because that's where that skies thing to get people on
some of their channels and proper skies description but it could be useful to cut down the
media costs and some of the TV channels and do you have that now to give it all over them
I've heard of don't know I know that much about it to be honest what I've seen not sure of
them impressed but hey I don't know I know that much about it so yeah well the trailer
I think it's called Yard player it's got I see the show but you know let people have sky
Atlantic and actually any cool channels that you can't get otherwise you have to have skype
or release so that's probably the main telling point there but it's also really
the native box is a modified um what's called Bokew every school box pressure calls does
them not allow access to Netflix even though the actual broken box would be able to because
although that's something that's going to release of course as well there's no space but yeah
sky Atlantic um it's just a bit annoying really that a lot of the hitter that would hear
she BO shows in the UK on sky Atlantic and that's tight as guy so anybody else and the other TV
probably cannot have that I think watch as much TV as I used to anyway personally yeah all
these things are put in that they have to keep sort of building their own sandcastles rather than
just building one bigger thing and and just letting people run Netflix on whatever I mean who cares
if you if you've got a Netflix subscription watch it who cares if it's on someone else's box
Amazon should be the same so they really should all be that but that's uh he has business I guess
um but yeah uh yeah a lot of these things it's not so much what um what services they're on it's
like how much of something that you watch if some service has the programs that you really enjoy
then it's sometimes a lot more worth paying for that um you know rather than having
the channels of stuff that you don't really watch well yeah that about a well it's just
game phones on sky Atlantic yeah well I should I should probably have heard that all the
announce TV channels they do they put out on their finger in standard definition and apparently
it can be their bad picture in general because it's all done for you to know but um there's
an option to avoid some of these by mobile media costs and it's shame really that there's a media
um by doing more deals and trying to get more channels and the rest of it because they're quite big
that that's just how it is as far as you know I sure I discovered a couple of months ago and I
absolutely love it but I've now got to the end of it and I'm not the not making it anymore
there's the newsroom where was that about it's I'd like the best way yeah I've heard that's good yeah
well basically the rest of the thing is um sorkin's presidential thing and I sat in the white
house but he's got another show we had another show it's now finished so like and I discovered
that unbeknownst to me it was already finished by the time I discovered it and there's only like
two and a half seasons and it's fantastic it's called the newsroom by um sorkin it's basically it's
set in a um like a kind of fox news or a CNN kind of uh news uh newsroom where they're trying to
figure out what the source is and trying to but did they have confirmation and they're trying to
get interviews and trying to follow things up and um and then having live on your sections and he
keeps cutting back and forth um right and we're coming back to our version three two one and he's
back in and uh they've got the kind of the scenes where the hosts are kind of talking to their
earpieces and talking to the producers you've got all that kind of drama going on um and then sort of
talking to you and the guests are there and then the lights come up on the back the advert break and
that's fantastic it's absolutely fantastic well that's my trouble now we're in the so-called mid-season
hiatus that's another pet peeve for me I think actually it was babble on five it started doing that
just you know they're blaming on well it's a sci-fi show it takes too long to make them so they
would be you know they take off in the middle once they got away with it now every show does it
and we wind up with these 10 10 episode seasons but I'm not bitter but yeah this this is where I
get stuck I I find the show like that that's already over and then I binge watch it and I don't
sleep for three nights I did that the other day with the with the border the the one it's the
Mexican-Texas border one not the one uh set in Europe that uh isn't captioned so I can't understand
it anyway I didn't realize there were two of them but essentially you know essentially one the uh
the one between us in Mexico I think is the it it you know was based on the European one yeah
I found with the newsroom um I watched it was just it was on sky Atlantic by the way if you've got
sky Atlantic you'll find it on that um and I watched it was just on a phone I thought I'll try
that first episode and it was just the the speech he gave right at the start like that opening thing
it just grabbed me and I thought this is exactly my type of thing um and then I look into it I'll
wait a minute there's only three seasons um and then like in at the second season halfway through
the second one I'm going to a bit of slow down here because I've really a bit of slow down because
there's only three seasons and then on the next to me I got told that um oh actually I've done
about three and then they quit and you're kidding me there's okay I'll need to spin this out and then
I realized when I got to start seeing three there's only like six episodes it was cancelled halfway
through the set that third season it's like no please no this isn't fair anyway I know I'm
going to top up before the bells well I've noticed recently I didn't know you could do this
actually haven't tried um the raspberry pie that's attached to the big TV now usually I use it
just in computer mode and fedora but it's also got open elect and when I when I boot into that
and the whole reason I did that was to catch up on the sci-fi stuff I found out I could I could watch
the expanse uh through Cody you know open open elect is a uh a distro for the pie that runs Cody
directly and so I you know I'm and oh the expanse is great I've watched all those so far plus
oh uh childhood's end wasn't so bad I mean well no it was good it's not the expanse but it was good
it was good uh many many series so it's got a beginning and an end just three episodes
so but I noticed having that up and running on my network when I go in my chrome cast app
on my android stuff I can actually cast uh to Cody which I did which I didn't realize now I've
not tried it yet but that's it that's an option so I guess you could you know you you could do
chrome cast stuff with without having known a chrome cast and once again 5150s killed the podcast
Seb where are we no I guess we're we're we're coming up on uh midnight UTC aren't we?
I'm guessing about the fireworks the bells must have welcomed
okay yeah I just realized I'm UTC minus six at six o'clock here so yes dancer my own question
we are we are at uh uh midnight in Great Britain oh yes well unless someone said the
fire works off but I'm assuming it's meant that you yes now I'm I start to look at tv shows now
with the idea of how much time am I going to invest in this if I have to like it because if
you're coming in there show really late on this run that's a lot of our I mean I've heard that
madman is fantastic and I think there's like seven seasons of that now so they've watched
the first one I thought oh that's okay it's not not too bad but you're talking like 24 season
24 episodes in a season times seven that's a long long time to invest in a show especially
in our long that's a long long time yeah that's why I haven't started on something like uh
sons of anarchy yet which I do have all the episodes available to me you just gotta binge watch
it like a pro yeah I do that I won't I won't sleep again till the end of the month
yeah for me I think it takes a special kind of show that I could binge watch because usually I'll
get like two episodes in and then thinking yeah I could maybe I could take a break and do something
else watch something else just whatever then maybe get back to it later on which I'll third
episode later on the day I think the only one that I found that I could sit and watch one
episode after the other was the newsroom and then I cooked and there's only three seasons and I've
got to pace myself and then obviously I'll have to force force it and say right I want to watch it
I do but yeah I need to spread this out so that's only one I find but I could actually binge watch it
well that's the problem when you have the two short of a series only three series is not enough
for binge watching if you've got seven seasons that's pretty good well you know then of course
I'm looking at that seven seasons and thinking you know what is it worth eating starting with that
because that's gonna take a long time you know maybe I won't maybe I'll just watch something else first
and then maybe get back to that later on maybe not because it's just an awful awfully big
investment yeah if it's a good series I've been trying to figure out if I can later this spring
just get Netflix for a month and get all the Marvel stuff you know the two the two seasons
of Daredevil and then and then their new one and and get out well been watching the agents
to shield as well that's not really good as well yeah I've been watching that this season that used
to conflict with something well right now conflicts don't matter to me I don't have an over
to air antenna yet and I just watch everything off Hulu when I want to watch it so but yeah I've
you know I at first it was like yeah I'd rather watch what was on the other channel I think
this last season has been bad of course I'm a little lost with this inhuman and what the heck
all that's about so I'll probably have to go back and watch the previous years to get caught up
but I'm only working the way through that I'm only at the start of season two I think
that's it I'm a stone season one I might be still in season one
not I think I'm I think I've started season two and then I got sidetracked I think it was at that
point I might have and about why I discovered the heroin known as the newsroom and then everything
else got thrown at the side so it's been a while of course you know in February there's another
DC series coming out from the same people would do arrow and flash it's more like a justice league
thing it's gonna have hawkman and hawk woman and and what is it the firestorm from flash and
and the atom and man I don't remember the atom having like an ex flying exosuit I don't remember
the atom ever flying in my day and a couple of couple other heroes that they're gonna throw in
like justice league second string type stuff so that may be interesting coming out and you know
I think the whole thing is somehow tied in the supergirl even though it's a different different
network I think some of the same people are involved let's face it Marvel have hit up on a very
rich vein of gold and they've been effectively print money at this point with tv shows and movies
and everything tying in together and you've got to admire them from a whole organizational thing
it was tying all these movies in together in different ways and linking characters in and
developing characters in one that appear in others and then they get developed and look subquats
and tv series you've got to admire them for that but at this point Marvel looks like they can
do no wrong they can just print money the problem is if you miss a movie or a series you're pretty much
lost yeah I rented Ant Man just the other day but you know it it may be in my opinion the best
the best one so far but man the trailers for Deadpool look like it's just so far and beyond
any of them although I guess it's weird our Deadpool's more of an X-Men tie-in I guess than
an Avengers tie-in I tell you I was I was so impressed with Ant Man Ant Man was fantastic it's just
I think the idea that the hero story or the kind of the the origin story you always expect it to be
the I have no idea who the always people are I don't I'm not really interested in comics I don't
know Marvel or don't want DC and none of that I don't have any baggage when it comes to that I'm
just looking at these is kind of fun action movies essentially so I had no idea what Ant Man was
like what was about just went completely fresh and I just love the idea that the main character
in it well he wasn't the guy that invented the suit fantastic it's someone else I just thought
that was an amazing twist but that could have been something that was always Ant Man anyway or
instead of just the movies reboot spending or whatever I don't know I thought that was genius oh
yeah I really liked that aspect I came from the same point I had no idea about
Ant Man before this this movie I didn't know what to expect but yeah it's a great movie yeah I
was I was real familiar of course with the atom from DC I was more growing up I you know I
followed both but I was more a DC fan than a Marvel fan and you're right I'd never heard
of Ant Man you go around Tiltzins and and say that they said what do you know ever those guys
are comic book nuts they know all these but yeah I like that I knew that Harry well I mean after
I knew that man was looked at I knew Harry Pym was supposed to be the original Ant Man and taking
that in that you know he was secret stealth Ant Man for the government that had never been revealed
and then you know that and yeah the character the in the war or whatever the yeah how do you
come to the background he's the he's the backstory rather than rather than the main story and
you know he's you know he's sort of a Tony Stark rival in a way so or not Tony Stark but Tony
Stark's dad oh yeah and of course we've got Agent Carter starting again the end of the month
the other was going to oddball one I'd never heard of either and I went completely fresh to it
was Guardians of the Galaxy which I thought was quite it was insane enough to be just like what
the wall is going on here but it's entertaining but it's definitely entertaining yeah that's kind
of a back burner one or you know one of the lesser known comics but I guess they do have an
Avengers tie in and see I didn't realize till after it the the enemy in in Guardians of the
Galaxy was the same one as in the first Avengers movie more like the boss of the enemy yeah I think
you've got you've got to hand it to them it's um they managed to create something that works for
people like me who don't know any of the like random stuff they can add it's satisfying enough
at obtaining enough just on its own right without needing to know any of the background
to anything like that but I don't know um how how accurate they all are to for people who do know
the all the background how much they've changed for the movies because they've got to do something
surely that's different because the whole point is like keep them guessing if people already
know of the fans a lot of the fans not me and a lot of the fans if they know what the stories are
then they know what's going to be in the movie because you know it's um or this happens to this
character or whatever I mean yes you went under to them really it's all about three boots now
yeah the way I understand it it's different enough than the comic books did start just you know
everybody sees what sees everything coming that's a comics fan see them the majority of the comics
I consumed growing up I didn't buy new comics I went to the flea market
and bought used omics that were like from the 50s and the 60s and so you know not only were
they 50 pages long sometimes but they were each a self-contained story you know so you didn't
have to get the the next episode uh to you know the next one in in series to to you know you weren't
missing anything and it got you know when it got to the point where you had the only ones that were
there ones you had to subscribe to to stick with the story I quit I quit uh following comic books so
that's why anything that's happened since about 1970 in comics I'm completely ignorant of
I'm sorry I guess we've been talking so much we haven't allowed 2d to jump in he's making a
comment in the show notes so please 2d jump on in hi guys I'm happy listening though I just
realized I forgot to introduce myself earlier at well it does some midnight here anyway
so where is here oh it's in Sweden all right so that's now what you know 20 past one quarter past
one maybe um yeah that's worrying well related happened your year what I'm saying belated
happy new year from like an hour and 15 minutes ago oh thanks yeah I think with the comics um the only
ones that I've I don't know I guess um I started trying to get into the Star Wars ones not because
there were comics but because there were just the Star Wars one then I love all the the expanded
universe stuff um but I don't know even with those even with the even with the content that I was
I was all into comics I've never really never really been my thing I don't know why it's just
there is generally I just I don't think the medium really works for me well fortunately they were
you know popular enough in our youth to uh provide fodder for you know great great TV and uh
and uh movies so I'm don't I'm not sure I would include most of the DC stuff as in great movies it
seems like DC's doing really well on TV and Marvel's really kicking button both places I can
barely tell DC and Marvel apart uh Marvel Marvel's the the stuff that I mean I can't tell the part
either uh other than the fact that Marvel seems to have it's it's um it was really swell
was so weird uh Marvel Marvel seems to have its stuff together um they seem to be the ones
with the big master plan the ones that I've thought everything out and they've got all these like
12 movies ahead all planned out and all until link with each other there's all these little
references to two different things and uh just cross references and characters that appear in
different places and they seem to be very very well it's like it's like they've got one very very
good team that's directing everything uh and keeping everything together as I can assume for
me whereas from what from what I can see um DC seem to be um well I don't know I mean for me
the Batman the Dark Knight trilogy was the only decent thing that I can think of but that was
like three movies at the hands of the Chris Morn and he's done a fantastic job but I love
him now it's kind of hurt and mess I think that's true actually Marvel does have a team
bigel yeah I was amazed at my you know I thought the original movie when they cast Michael Keaton
you know I said Michael Keaton are they nuts and I thought he and Jack Nicholson just really
of course Jack Nicholson just you know tore up the shrubbery during that whole
movie and that but that was definitely the best of the you know they're the original movies and
they kept getting progressively worse and then the second series that's not too bad I'm just uh
I don't know about this whole premise of Batman versus Superman because in the comic books they
all you know maybe they're not in any more in the new 52 or whatever it is or whatever the
retcon thing is but I mean you know throughout my childhood you know Batman and Superman were like
the best buddies always in in super heroes so it's kind of hard to swallow you know okay the first
the first movie with both of them in at their bitter enemies there's one of the animated Batman
movies that has them like as a lot older like Bruce Wayne or Batman as any's maybe in his 60s
something like that and he's as far as I remember it's been a while but as far as I remember it's
the idea that he's essentially given up on Gotham and he's went into retirement he's just a private
citizen he no longer wears the suit anymore and Gotham's just went to hell and then when he comes
back he's showing and he becomes the kind of the vigilante and he's too dangerous to stop and
something like Superman is essentially sent to to stop him to go against him and by the the government
of whether somebody that kind of remember exactly what it was but there is that one of the animated
shows animated movies that's where that is the premise they're building up so it's something
like that for Marvel stuff yeah I think I think DC are looking at Marvel's success and thinking
they're we're on to something they've tapped into a well of like flowing gold we need to do that
with our properties but they just they don't seem to know where to start they've got all this
stuff but they just can't seem to quite get a hand on where they start to even to start doing it
I don't know maybe if they were smart they'd go in and just head on all the all the top Marvel people
and just bring the whole democross on Mars maybe they might have a chance then yeah they should have
coordinated from the beginning I think Marvel had a much better plan going out making movies
well I think with Marvel as soon as they realised that was that Iron Man maybe it was the first one
and they realised hey we've got the technology here that we can do all the effects that we wanted to
we've got the we can attract the right caliber of actors to do it that we could actually turn
something we could actually start planning but as far as I was aware I could be wrong but as far
as I was aware Marvel didn't start with this big huge plan we only realised that after they struck
gold with Iron Man that maybe they should really take advantage of that and turn it in and it's
yeah but they're still owned everything so they could make that plan once they had struck gold
I think yeah I think that the others just sold everything out to all kinds of places
yeah I mean that's true they still had to do it but then again you look at why haven't DC
done the same you could argue the same with them or have they or not had anything that's
considered as and the same sort of caliber as Iron Man I mean for me the Batman the dark night
trilogy is absolutely phenomenal but that came a good bit later on okay it's 2016 and the
world is still here happy yeah good and yeah bad news bug the world is not here we're all
now after life the world indeed exploded you just missed it tell me yeah forget you're in need
if there's a screw though yeah the baddest faggot read to me fireworks yeah I love a good joke you
can always tell it's a good joke but it's made by silence that's that's that's always my my
sign of approval and approval and approving audience laughing to hard to find my key see that's it
there's a mandate gets it exactly so I'm guessing I've missed the whole I'm guessing some some
by someone's been talking about the new style world movie no no I would see that yet I think
that's still off off limits I mean other than in general a lot of people said it's very very
derivative of the of the new hope or episode four or the original first movie and the first
and the prequels never happened whatever you want to say but I've heard some people say they
really liked it and there's some other cynical people saying all you got to do is you're better
off going back and and watching the first movie because it's the same thing so I'm sure I'll go see
it this weekend now I usually don't see and if they have screwed it up then it's their own fault
because I won't watch the next two until they come out on red red box well people wanted the
first movies again yeah I haven't seen myself yet but I have read the book and yeah I mean obviously
I'm guessing it's too new so I don't want any spoilers or anything like that but I'm looking at it
from reading the book from the perspective of I've spent 25 years reading Star Wars books and
I'm my brain is automatically in the mode of how does this fit into the wider can I expand the
universe can I talk history but this time around reading it is a really really surreal experience
it's like a Star Wars but it's a completely different thing it's I mean it's good I think but
it's different it's these the sort of the backstory how they got to there and how the characters
have developed into that and how the the situation is the way it is and a lot of these new characters
and new planets and you it's just very strange it's very very strange but it's like the start
is something new and and so far from judging just by the book and yes it's I'm guessing it's
probably going to be quite good I'm certainly curious and interested it's got me interested for
what they're doing I've got a bit of faith and what doesn't he'll do with it it's yeah it's
I haven't seen only you have the old Star Wars films or years so going off to see the new one was
well yeah it was good and I haven't made the books I do remember seeing a thing on the BBC
when he's fun with you shows and somebody basically said how he grew up with all the Star Wars
course and he was never really down to it but nobody got into it but then we just knew one he
got into it because it it basically yeah I mean definitely it does cater for the old Star Wars
fans as well as the newer generations so it seems to cater for both mostly and and it was kind
of a very successful isn't he very successful for that reason and there's a lot of
mention there's a lot of nice things there but apparently they make a lot more out of the
merchandise actually than they want to be yourself in the summer yeah that's always going to be the
case this is one thing that I now understand see as soon as I heard Harrison Ford have signed on
I thought well it must be it must be a fantastic script because he was always the one that said
I don't handle again that the others were sort of say well if Harrison does it maybe
can come back and he was just always the one that was holding out so I figured it must be something
really really fantastic if Harrison Ford was signing on for it and now that I've read the book
obviously I've must see in the movie I now know why Harrison Ford has signed on for it but if I
say that it would be a spoiler we basically stole it from anybody didn't know but yeah
Harrison Ford has a role in it okay and it only says it's quite okay it's quite a good role
in that film as well come on and film this and film this you see the trailer at home and
chew it and we're home to it you know they're on the trailer so you know he's in it oh yeah
you don't know it or though I guess I'm gonna say what you think I wish it wasn't really
spoilers so all I can say is yeah it should leave you to one more and see another one when you
see this one at the end because our ends as well yeah I would agree with that by the book as well
I would agree with that just for me it was one of these kind of strange things of everything
was different it struggles but it's different it's like it's like they've taken the events of
of the original trilogy and said right where can we go with this just let's throw everything
out of the window where can we go with this imaginary years down the line what happens you know
and it's just something that they went off in some interesting directions in some places and
but some of it does feel derivative I guess maybe but and you can see it being tiniens like getting
that on mods to different parts in the other movies whether that's a kind of homage I'm not sure
whether it's derivative I guess that's on one first opinion I don't know but yeah I would agree
with that it does with the end of the story they're definitely setting it up for more movies and you
do you can know where it's going to go at that point now there's many differences in in this
Star Wars but I mean it's also made by a different company but that's a side thing but it does
I mean like we've seen in the old ones for years anyway but it does probably go quite a
nice he has to do the first six it's like a seventh movie it really is there are a lot of similarities
as you all want sure but there are also quite a few differences so that's why it ends up getting
catering for most people to watch I think so that's fine well I like the idea that George Lucas
hasn't embraced and he when he sold Lucas Arch but he sold the franchise to Disney and they'd
basically said now I'm having none to do the movies and all of a sudden that meant oh these
could actually be really good then if George Lucas hasn't allowed anybody on the other
them these could be really good and he doesn't like the the various things I've been done
and the social vacants and I'm like well okay that could be a good thing that he doesn't like it
that could be a thumbs up for me well again I don't I don't like that they threw out the expanded
universe I can see why essentially they're just too lazy to sit down and read the books
maybe they thought the books paying them into too deep of a corner but you know I would take
surely they could have come up with something compatible I think they're just too lazy to do it I
mean they wouldn't have to read the books they just have to go to convention and find a couple
fanboys and I'm sure they're you know they're there are people at conventions that can give you
the whole history of the expanded universe and act it as a technical advisor so no no you can't
do that because you know this happened in this book and this this character is here yeah I tried
they just refuse my offer honestly I tried yeah I mean as you say for now I actually read that
they've thrown out all the expanded universe I was about gutted because there's a lot of good
stuff in there there's a lot of some gross as well but there's a lot of really good stuff in there
but I can understand why I think it's this time round of done some things that are kind of similar
ish to the to the expanded universe so that was another thing that again I'm watching what I say in
case like a spoilish but that's something that there was similar enough to the old expanded
universe but the bonnet this time round so that's going to take a bit of getting your head round as
well well I mean the one thing I I was just really impressed with the expanded universe because
it seemed like there was never a contradiction you know they of any of the sci-fi universes they
had their stuff together even to the point and I've said I've said this before people heard me
said it between the first two movies there were you know some prequel books with hands alone
Shubaka meant for junior high kids and I was in junior high at the time and you know and you
used to have these book club things where you'd bought you'd order paperbacks every month so I got
all of these and there were about three books written at the time and like I said this is right
after the first movie and in the book they have one of the books they have Han Solo defending
sort of this frontier outpost you know still being the mercenary soldier for higher sort of
deal or anti hero kind of with a harder gold but I'm still flying the Falcon they had you know
that the this outpost has this these Z22s which was like the you know immediate supposed to be the
immediate precursor to the X-Wing you know same company is that the Z-95 head on them okay Z-95
I thank you thank you Z-95 head hunter you're right and I don't know if that was something originally
in Lucas's notes or whatever but you know 10 years later or 15 years later the the games come out
and there you're right there's the Z-95 head hunter yeah that wasn't a Lucas thing that was
and that was done by one of the authors and that this wasn't the adventures of Han Solo or something
like that other cup well you're better up on this than I am but as I said they done in 25 years I've
read most of the Star Wars expanded universe books and not all of them but most of them
multiple times and so my whole headspace when I'm reading a new Star Wars book is how does it fit
into this wider tapestry so reading one that was official Star Wars but it's different it's
something different it's just odd it's just it's a really odd experience and knowing that almost reads
like fan fiction because of that it feels like fan fiction because they've taken a completely
different line up to that point and the characters have went in different ways and yeah it just feels
very different but yeah I mean there's a lot to like and expand the universe actually and
things in the beginning though it wasn't that well tied together but it was only later on
that once they realised that actually we could make something here it was only then that they
started to get a team together and and sort of manage it all and make sure that everyone
all tied together and everyone contradicted each other and Continue was right and the timelines
were right and it was all that and then once you get a handle on that and that the writers know
what they're doing they know where the limits are you know what they're actually doing in that
then it is like building another little each book is like another little section in the huge
tapestry. I just have one question about this new movie does it end? It's like the dark terror
upspiler alert sorry yeah it's actually I mean as far as I know it doesn't have planning for this
to be a huge huge deal so they have no intention they're just starting at one movie they're
just going to keep pumping movies out now as long as they're making money as long as the quality's
up to enough that there's the people that are buying it that are buying the tickets as long to keep
going to see it and getting the DVDs and things like that as long as they keep making the money
they're going to keep pumping this out it's going to be a machine. Well I'm wondering if what
2D means is that it's like the other six movies there's absolutely no denumah it's just an
I'm pronouncing that word wrong I know you know it just stops and you know you go into the
goes right into the music and the weird circle thing that goes into the goes into the credits
you know so that I got you know the other six movies there was you know there was no
coming down to an end it just the the movie just abruptly stops. Well there was the job job
that was kind of an ending. Yeah I think about this even with the
with the original movies the all the threads do you all tie and all the main ones tie in
but there's always background stories and the background stories if you need to expand the
universe you start to pick out more of those and and even with the marble staff you've got
the agent as an agent carter and as a carter and agent's a shield where he's in the movies
and then a sudden appearance goes on show is on TV show where he is the sort of head of the team
and then Samuel Jackson are fury comes in for the odd episodes for the odd scene and things
like that so there's always more stories to be told there even if they tie in all the major
threads to end in like three movies and things like that but as far as I know the idea is
Disney are looking to turn this into like Star Wars movie every year or every couple of years
for the long long time to come yeah if they can keep making money out of it because that's
what they're all about is money. Yeah we did mention that as long as it's not just a cut and you know
there's going to be a movie starting right after that cut maybe let it a year or two go between the
movies or something. Well apparently movie eight has already been uh been uh been signed on
apparently it's the guy that was doing the Godzilla movie that he was signed on for movie eight
and I don't know if that's a spin-off with one of the characters or whether that's um something
carries on from where the social weekends ends I'm not sure um but yeah I mean there's all sorts
I mean you can look it in the visual characters even you forget the quality of the movies you can
even look it back at the prequels and say you could do it like a Yoda spin-off where it's like a
single movie with Yoda or the plans they had for a Boba Fett series or um you know a movie where
Mace Wonder is as the lead character or you know anything like that if if the characters are good
then they can go off and individual stories or like a Han Solo uh special you know or something
like that you know. Isn't there going to be a Star Wars TV series this mere summer? I don't know if
it's like uh you know way way prequel or something you know off on the video games uh like the role
playing one that they had uh something but I thought there were supposed to be some sort of Star
Wars TV series coming and not a cartoon live action. Yeah I think there was meant to be a live
action set between um episode three and four and then a while later than that I didn't hear
anything and then a while later rebels appeared which is not live action but it is still set
between like three and four so maybe they can change the mind on that and just went in the live
action. I'm sorry I went with the cartoon I don't know um well I used to you know uh I think it's
funny you know my dad uh uh they they had reruns well after the series of uh Clone Wars the the
cartoons on uh yeah about noon on Sundays and of course he always wanted to watch football is it
no you watch football all day I'm gonna I'm gonna watch this then you can watch football uh but uh
so but you know at first he was like grumbling and all that but eventually he became a fan you
know because it's it did have this story arc and and everything and such and you know such
incredible animation of course it's all computer generated uh you know it just blows away
anything else like the cartoons we watched as kids and you know he finally admitted to me he's a bit
you know uh it'd been amazing if we had something like this you know when he was a kid of course
they didn't even have TV when he was a kid but uh you know he started really getting into it.
Yeah I've got to say I love the Clone Wars cartoon actually um some of the act things about
hockey some of the writings a bit hockey um but overall I think the Clone Wars cartoon is fantastic
and it took me a while to realize what it is what the elements are like about it and then part of
that I thought it's like it's like Jedi tag team see where you get like one episode and it's Anakin
Anakin and the soccer and then at the end of the episode they get past their path and then the
cavalry arrives and the cavalry comes in the form of like Mace Wind and then he takes a lead for
the next end of the episode and then the cavalry arrives for him to dig him out of the hole
and it turns out to be um you know kit first though in Yoda or something like that and it's basically
Jedi tag team it's fantastic um the lightsaber stuff is mental as well absolutely mental some of
the some of the fight sequences like um Sidious against um survival press and uh Mal is just brilliant
um our uh a surge of interests hard hard jewels are always mental as well that the dual lightsaber
well yeah I've also I mean as much as they're gonna add they're gonna comment their relief
I also love the battle droids as well the three sarcastic things like oh not again
Jedi not again it's like so Jedi of motion oh I hate this job that's one of the good things from
the first movies well the prequels I like those guys actually yeah they they are I used to think
they were quite annoying uh I used to think I suck I suck at animals I'm not in as well and then
in both cases they they can agree on me like the battle droids as the season goes on as the series
goes on the battle droids get funny I'm funny yeah I mean the battle droids actually have a lot more
personality than uh R2D2 and C3PO of but of course you know I guess they probably have less
tightened down controls uh considering they're actually allowed to shoot people yeah and they get
so short uh screen time compared to say R2 so they have to be more expressive yeah I think
what's the technology for the CGI and the storytelling the computers for the storytelling
the action in the Clone Wars there's unbelievably good um whether it's it's all the stuff happening
the background the dog fights the uh the stuff blowing up in the background uh the sort of the Jedi
out in the field and just millions of laser blasts going up here there and everywhere and it actually
feels like as the story builds up it feels like a viol like a war a proper war that's spread
right across the galaxy you go through one planet to the next to the next to the next it just feels
like a this big huge thing rather than um I mean if you just watch the movies yeah I mean the
Clone Wars has begun at the end episode two the Clone Wars has begun does it really it's okay it's
been quite a hefty hefty fright on on Geonosis but really um war is a war no not so sure uh and then
by the start of episode three we've got the assault on Coruscant and it's like yeah it's like
hefty about a little bit uh in the skies over Coruscant but war uh just with the TV series
you get to see that yeah that's a war that's a war and lots of planets and all sorts of beings
and all shapes and sizes are all getting dragged in it as whether they want it or not well one
thing you don't get from the movies that you see in the expanded universe is that you know the
reason the um Empire builds the uh the Death Star it is that they are you know they're actually
spreading really really thin uh that you know the more the the uh more powerful planets still do
have their own navies you know and so they're you know really the Empire is only kind of keeping
control out of all these planets by the skinner their teeth and that's the first and you know
that's sort of the theme of the first few uh of the expanded you expanded universe books you know
the ones that are from the uh the the perspective of uh Han and Leigh and all that that you know
they're the they're the new government and without all these terror you know weapons that they're
they're having a real real time you know pulling all these new planets into order well didn't
didn't you see the end of episode two the G and Oceans were they they they had the plans for the
Death Star that was right at the end that was what you know uh uh uh uh uh Poggle the lesser
was actually showing Duke over the plans but we need to get out of here because if the Republic
get the plans well I'll take them to the master that's that's the plans for the Death Star
eight this Death Star well yeah two and off eight Death Star um yeah and then at the end of
of revenge of the set um Sidious and Tarkin and Beto are looking out of the the blood of the
Star Destroyer and onto the very beginning stages of um of that start to be built with this
for a start to be built yeah so that that's an interesting it takes some you know between the
the prequels and the and the uh and the original was supposed to be you know 15, 20 years
well it looks lifetimes with Lee you know almost 20 years to build the first Death Star
but then they have another one built by the third movie so they're probably I guess building them
in parallel maybe yeah they must have learned all the the criteria to do it for the first time
reuse all the machinery all the production lights just scale up and reuse it
we've already designed it so that's fine boss we need to remember and build a different
obvious form you know with the expanded universe there's a lot of good stuff in there um but there's
a lot of sort of not so good not so good thing is I'd always held held hope that when it was always
it was never going to happen really but um the the Death Kiders thing was going to be done then
eh some something other than just a book um I think he's that's a fascinating story like
as the the Jason saw what the Death Kiders uh the raisin followed the Death Kiders um which is
about the same time actually as uh as the four short weekends but along the different timeline
but here that's not going to harm no yeah I would during the and I I have far less
from cyclopeding knowledge of the uh uh of the expanded universe books but I much preferred say the
first you with Grand Emerald Thrawn then the later ones with the Jedi wonder kids uh you know
hon and laze kids yeah I think that's but it's no it's a different era um I like a lot of these
different eras for all for different reasons the the prequel era was always fascinating because you
you knew what the buildup was going to turn into it was going to be a war that was coming that
was going to engulf the republic and use that as an excuse to become the empire whatever
so you could see all the the sort of the big picture stuff that the characters on the ground couldn't
see um like some border disputes somewhere uh the Anakin and Obi-Wan I've got to go to and they've
got no clue who the Separatists are or the whether that they're a war coming at all they're only
dealing with um one of Buku's like minions you know um so it's that's a whole sort of interesting idea
that the soldiers are that everyone's rooting for and if quite effectively becomes the bad guys
because Sidious flips them round um so yeah it's gonna interest and interest in times at the
depending on the characters um the post of the Jedi stuff the Harman Layers kids that some of
that is quite annoying to be fair um but Darth Qaeda's um his story line is utterly brilliant it's
absolutely brilliant it's one of those already most of the books and the the servant are sort of
the nine book series I think it's a legacy of the force um is probably the best the best Star Wars
stuff I have ever read it's fantastic well I mean in a in a way you can see in in top of times
mind he's the hero because he can look at the republicans see you know there's just way too many
moving parts here in this ain't working and the only way to hold it together is with an iron fist
well there's actually one book of your end Darth Plagueis now I miss that one I need to get back
in actually reading stuff the always stuff I I quote read any more audio books is one of the
the expanded universe books that I am the most disappointed that has been swept under the rug
because it was so good right so um so you you know what I'm gonna say then what that's one of those
Darth Plagueis was one that that it's very very rare that you can that a book can reflect a story
and reflect a movie and reflect what you already think of it but just completely flip on its head
um because I I went into that thinking I want in Darth Plagueis thinking right this this is a guy
that gets referenced by Palpatine or by Sidious Sidious is master okay that I can go with that and
and we'll find out where Sidious started which you do um but the thing that kind of flipped on
its head was the idea that it intersects with episode one so you see different things from different
angles all the way through the build-up to episode one and three episodes one and then you find out
that um mall was never a such lot it was it was never a such because I always thought there's always
one master of one apprentice well Sidious is a master of malls their apprentice uh not really it's
actually Sidious was their apprentice all the way through episode one the Plagueis was the master you
just never saw and then mall never was a Sid um and then once you wrap your head around that you're
thinking whoa but it's mental but that is absolutely never feel never saw that coming and I just
realized that I spoiled that I'm sorry um it's it's a fantastic story but just from that angle
that it can have completely flipped episode one around uh and just completely changed it but
hope that's impressive that's really impressive well that's okay according to Disney it doesn't
exist anymore so I guess you spoiled nothing well yeah it would start trick and all spoiling it
either because everything's new that's one way to kill a Star Wars conversation no I think you just
made it better actually that's okay well I was going to say I was worried about what does
they were going to do they think all this other kind of ideas that were planned originally live
action shows and and all that kind of stuff that was all when Lucas still owned it uh I think
perhaps when Lucas still owned it and then when he sold it to Disney all the stuff that was
currently being done that's in the air all the stuff that was maybe planned or rumored to be planned
possibly at some point in the future all that's in there as well and essentially it's up to Disney to
do whatever they want to do with it um and I did see a lot of ground one about oh Disney kids stuff
what's a kids it's a kid show really um it just so happens that we were all kids when the original
ones came out with kind of growing the adults but it stuck with us but it stuck a kid show it
doesn't change the fact there's a kid show really at a family show um I think from what I've read
at the four-shot weekends uh or the book anyway um I'm I'm very optimistic I think I think we're
on to something that could actually be really good um but time will tell
you've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org we are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows
was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hecka public radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise stated today's show is
released on the creative comments attribution share a light 3.0 license
