Episode: 1344
Title: HPR1344: Filming a Dinosaur egg hatching
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1344/hpr1344.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 23:53:21

---

Music
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Palland and I'm here with say your name.
Podrick.
Okay, Podrick.
What are we doing out here?
We are trying to get a egg open.
What type of an egg is it?
It's a play egg and you have to get it to open.
It's from what type of animal?
A dinosaur.
Ah, a dinosaur egg.
What do you have to do?
We have to put the egg in the water.
Yeah.
And then wait for eight days.
Eight days?
That's a very long time.
Yes.
We're going to make a film with lots and lots and lots of photos.
So we're going to take a photo every minute and then make a big film out of it.
Yes.
Okay.
So what have we got to set up over here?
We have got an egg in the water.
You know?
In a kitchen bowl.
Yes, in a kitchen bowl.
On some boxes.
Yeah.
And there's a camera and a light.
Okay.
It's a USB camera and it goes into what?
A raspberry pie.
Yes.
And the raspberry pie is running a program called FS webcam, which I'll talk more to you more
about.
Okay.
Thanks, Patrick.
I'll finish you some.
So it's hooked up to the raspberry pie via FS webcam and FS webcam, according to the
main page, is a small and simple webcam for Unix.
It can capture images from a multiple of different sources and perform SIPM manipulation
on the capture image.
The image can be saved as one or more PNG or JPEG files.
Well, this is the option to go on the background.
I want to run it for both of these.
So I've just put it into a simple bash loop and I take one shot and then I sleep for a minute
again.
The command that I'm using is FS webcam dash R to get 640x480 to give the size dash S for
15 to skip 15 seconds, dash dash flip H to flip it horizontally.
Dash dash JPEG 95 will give you the quality of JPEG and then the rest is just to put some
text on it and dash dash save and then the file name.
So I'll be taking hopefully a one picture a minute for the next eight days and then I'll
just switch those all together, use an FFM bag or some other tool like that and that
should give us a video.
So which will be available in the show notes for this episode of Works.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio or Hacker Public Radio does our, we are a
community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever considered recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy it
really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are proudly sponsored by Lina Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinaPages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative comments, attribution, share
it, lead us our own lives.
