Episode: 1100
Title: HPR1100: Why Android Tablets Suck Part2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1100/hpr1100.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 18:56:18

---

.
Good morning, good afternoon. Good evening. This is Mr. Gadden.
So, I picked you. I just ran into a cellular hole there and I've been talking a lot for about five minutes.
Then the call got dropped. So, of course, you didn't hear all that and it was eloquent. I'm really sorry for you.
Anyway, you might as other stuff had several things in the queue here on the calendar.
I had noticed that the queue was getting down a bit on shows. So, I called in a couple of them.
Get off this rock. If so, don't worry. There's an episode two coming. I already have a deadline to set to be a little bit of research on some things I read through the years.
And that will be coming to you soon. Also, I did a hemorrhenia show and that was just that distance.
I did not actually even look at the calendar and see that the other show about hemorrhenia was in the queue already.
That one was all that I mentioned in the episode. It was something that I was thinking of because I got to an amateur radio.
The UK, the Golden Rally, right, an amateur radio hamptest here in the campus of the area not too far away from me.
And that is what got me thinking about amateur radio.
So, today we're going to talk about, and this was another one of those things, kind of like get off this rock episode two.
So, to remember, while back, I showed them a show why Android tablets suck.
And I was limiting, you know, the Android tablet marketplace and the problems of someone trying to purchase an Android tablet and knowing what you were getting and all that can fix.
Well, not sure if I'm going to say that Android tablets are great now, but at least Android tablets, finally, there's an Android tablet I can really recommend to people.
So, Android tablets are redeemed, let's call this episode, right?
And this is all because of the lovely little Google Nexus 7.
Something you have heard about, I'm sure there's a lot of interest in this on the internet, a lot of pre-orders and people anxiously awaiting and all that type of thing.
And we'll talk a little bit about the pre-ordering and things like that.
Again, a very successful product for Google.
They're making a tiny bit of money on each one, not CV profit, but they are making profit on each one.
And, of course, it is very good at getting you into the Google marketplace and into the Google ego system.
And that's the real key to the devices, it's getting you into the ecosystem.
This is a series of things that have happened that I've already expressed in the other one, but I'll reiterate, you know, I love the 7X tablets size.
It is definitely something that I feel is very useful, slightly more portable, we'll get into that later.
And also, it's a useful device for me.
And so, I've been casting it out to find the right one.
I have not all of them, but I purchased several and I went through the issues that I had with them.
So, the X7, of course, was kind of follow on to probably the most successful.
First successful 7-inch tablet from my product manager, you know, kind of company, was the controller, right, came along.
Very useful device for book reading and some web browsing, a few apps you can get, but a very limited app store.
But it was very successful out of the box. It also had a little piker left, deep spot, around in the corner.
You know, that little kind of study corner that has the little hole in it, and people used to make fun.
You know, you could put little, you know, do that, hang it from there, you know, little hello kitty, you know, things or something.
Or maybe you can hang it like a little big, big old heavy lager, grand your neck.
There's actually a little piker door there, it's not too secure, but it's kind of not too obvious.
Places that you can open up and put in a microSD card. Very quickly, people were putting the whole operating system on there and getting that to be a more functional machine.
But, you know, you have to be at least so much technically savvy and build the right places to go and figure out how to do all that.
Then, get along the Amazon Kindle Fire. And this one has definitely some advantages over the color.
It out of the box is a very functional machine. It has a very good app store with not quite everything, but most of the things you want.
So you can put on various kinds of apps, launch the machine and get further functionality out of it.
It's probably most important. It is into an ecosystem that I've already invested in in terms of my e-books.
I don't have any e-books from Mark's and Noble, but I do have e-books from, you know, the Kindle e-books from Amazon.
Because the Amazon people are very smart. Now, the Marks and Noble people also have this, but they have an app that you can put on to other devices.
Even though they don't sell you the price, they certainly want to be able to sell you electronic books.
And so they follow on kinds of things to click on to other devices where you can read those books pretty much on any piece of hardware that you have.
Very intelligent, very smart way to do things. And so I already have several gimbal books that I wanted to read.
And I can read those very well. It's got the apps, like I say. They're very, very useful and very, very close to the experience.
Straight on the box, I don't have to do anything to get it to be more functional.
There are a few apps that were available in the store, but I can live without those. And very, very nice.
So then, you will decide to kind of address this whole thing about the fracturing of the market, you know, in terms of Android.
Now, I'm not going to get into it that much on the phones, side of things, but from the tablet perspective, you're pretty much loved in Dollar Lurch.
You, unless you have a tablet that is particularly popular, most of the wronging kinds of things are about phones, less so about tablets.
And unless you have a particularly popular tablet, you're not even ready to be able to, unless you want to go out and get that coded, do it yourself, you're not going to be able to install some other operating system audit.
And you're also not going to get that grade from the manufacturers of that device.
So, whatever you get, quite often it's even older sometimes than the phones are typically shipping with.
Whatever operating system you get, if you're on June 3rd, that's it. That's all you're ever going to get about that sheet.
And so, that has been a problem that might be reaching that in the previous episode.
So, Google didn't want everybody putting on their own, I also mentioned in the previous episode.
I can't tell you what Android would look like on a tablet because you're never actually just seeing Android on the tablet, do you?
You see that manufacturer's particular tweaking of the Android user interface.
So, there isn't any uniformity of, you know, there are certain basic things that are making Android.
But, you know, a lot of those are the things that this whole Samsung Apple, you know, might are over user interface and, you know, look and feel with all this kind of stuff.
That's the stuff that just makes it a mobile device.
So, how do you even know that you've experienced, you know, that's the Android interface when they got in and fucked around with it?
So, this is pure Android, which is a very positive kind of thing.
It has the real Google Play Store, right, which used to be the Google App Store that has all of the good apps.
I expressed, you know, in that previous episode, my frustration that I don't know what or why,
but it probably was because Google was attempting to get everybody to use the Google App Store so that they could get there 30% of those every app that's sold to the App Store.
I don't know why free apps make any sense in that regard, unless there are in-app purchases, I guess, and when they get a percentage of that.
I'm not going to give Google, you're not making money, but this whole idea of not having any availability for your free apps anywhere except the App Store is very frustrating for me,
because I could load a little for a second. I could load an APK, right, but I couldn't get it anywhere except on the App Store, now that Google Play.
I just wanted to work out that later, and I didn't access to that on those other tablets, so I got access to the full App Store.
It is like butter, you know, that was the thing about Jelly Beans. It has the brand new PlayZoom.
PlayZoom. Jelly Beans has Google Deliver set, and it is a state operating system.
It is a very pleasant, intuitive, easy way to use a device, and you can hand this to somebody, and they'll be able to figure it out without a lot of people,
and if smooth, it really is, it is like butter.
So, it is a excellent experience. It is almost a relay, and there is a guy named Andy Anato, who is really the technology guy,
and he writes for the supremacist at times, although he loves it Boston, that's your how that works. But anyway, he is writing about technology all the time, and he is really an Apple guy.
And he uses Apple as this primary system that he uses for all of his computer needs, and has iOS devices for his mobile devices, primarily, and things like that.
And I don't know if you call us, but he is a pretty pro Apple guy, and he made a comment that this is the first device before this in the tablet space.
It really has been a contest between the iPad and Android. It has been a contest between the tablet that works and everything else.
And now finally, here is the tablet that works. I mean, you could have just somebody and not have to be on the phone with them, telling them to do this, do that, and do the other thing constantly.
They are going to be able to have a really good experience. I think it is interesting that Steve Jobs, the many things that I didn't agree with them with, there is something that I didn't agree with.
The one thing I didn't agree with post is Steve that we are not going to make the tablet because we figured out that the 7-inch tablet is not good. You are not going to have a good experience with that smaller space. You need the bigger space, our research system.
I want a 7-inch tablet. You know, they have been selling a 7-inch tablet all these years. I probably would have been invited from them because it is very useful for me. It is more affordable for that later.
And it is a tablet that, you know, as I say for reading, if I can hold it in one hand, in a perfect mode, and let's look through the both of the diagnoses by reading. And it is an excellent, excellent reading experience.
The 10-inch tablets are a little bit too heavy. We might look a little bit better on them, but, you know, it is just what is going to be reading experience as the phoenix tablets.
And the river has it that they are going to come out with one at the fall, so there you go. They seem to have it. They seem to have it, especially at the 007.
The Kibble Fire of the 007 has turned this into a viable marketplace, and so they are going to go in with their offering, and it could keep you in that size marketplace.
So there you go. The Kibble 7, I believe, the next is 7-inch tablet. Well, it does not have the microSD slot. The Kibble Fire doesn't have it, and the next is 7-inch tablet.
And so like you buy is what you get. There are two sizes. 8 and 16 gigabytes have the 16 gigabytes I believe, at least for a while.
They were selling white cupcakes, and they stopped taking online orders for them, because they did not think that they could fulfill those orders in a timely fashion.
So successful device, I think. I'm not sure whether that has started up for 16 gigabytes. I've never seen it in retail.
No, no, that's actually that. Office people at least have one the other day I know this is what I was watching these, so you could buy it real life.
So there are a couple of failures. One of them, I think, a pretty major one, but it's really easily fixed in these situations that you're in, at least to put it online.
But the failures in terms of the Google Nexus 7, in my mind, are the home screen that you get with it will only operate in portrait mode, not in the landscape mode.
Now, one could argue that with the 7-inch tablet, you're holding it in portrait mode a whole lot more often than you are having it set in.
You're holding it in landscape mode, they're sending it on a table in front of you with a little tape stand or with a little stand and having it be in landscape mode.
But your home screen really, really needed to be able to go from portrait to landscape, guys. Come on. Seriously.
But there's a couple of fixes. There is the, you don't need to hack anything, fix. I believe you need some kind of root access or things like that to go in.
And you added a little file that's somewhere very deep, you know, in the system and you could do alter some pixel counts and get it to flip.
So there was a absolutely free, you could do it yourself. There is a free launcher that's available that would be an alternate launcher, but you know, the launcher is really part of the operating system experience.
So at that point, you're really not getting the same user experience on the home screen of the launcher and everything like that that was the out-of-the-box experience.
Whether that was your not, or I think it was three bucks. There was a little app that you could buy on the store. It didn't require you to do anything of the device, right?
And it will allow you to tell the system whether you want the application to be in portrait, any application, including the launcher, to be in portrait mode, to be in landscape mode, or to, you could force it to do that, or you could even force it to auto rotate.
So given the fact that when you online buy, at least you've got a $25 credit for free ordering. I don't know if it's ordering online now, but free ordering.
And so I had myself a $25 credit, so I spent three of my $25 sign the full free dollar app. But it really should've done that out of the box, okay?
Number two failure is there is a magnet kind of similar to the iPads. I don't think there's any other of the tablets that have this.
So you can have these covers, right, that all the iPads that it will have magnets at the end of the cover. And when you open up the cover, it unlocks the screen, so you don't have to do the little little slide to finger thing.
I'm not sure if you have a screen lock this password, what happens with the cover?
But Google has some things to detect them at this also. I think probably they're cover. I didn't purchase they're cover, so you'll be online, but I did purchase another cover, so I'm going quite a bit.
That is a little leather one kind of minimalist. If anybody is out there listening that designs covers for these devices, I want covers that add almost no sickness to the device.
I want the super thin protective cover. That's why I like the smart covers on the front. My Kindle fire, I found the cover that was very minimalist, adds very little sickness to the device.
I don't want a nice leather looking Moistina. It looks like a leather notebook. I want something that is strong and durable and is paper-seared if you could do it.
I know that's asking to be possible, but if I have a nice cover, it's got the magnets on it. When you open it up, it doesn't require you to push the little power button to turn the screen off.
That's one of the accomplishes, but you do have to still swipe. Maybe they thought if we do it exactly the way the Apple device does it, they're going to sue us because we copied exactly what that does.
Maybe that was actually the thought pattern, which tells you something about what's wrong with today's litigious world of these kinds of devices.
But you know, that seems like kind of a fail compared with my expectations from other devices that it's competing with.
And the third one, and I think this is probably a major one for people who are online and listen to hacker public radio and tend to use their devices very actively in terms of audio with things like that.
As far as I can tell, and as far as my experimentation has gone, there's no way to connect any kind of exterior microphone and use that with the Nexus 7.
Most of the Android devices, like other phones, have ways that there's a chip ring ring sleeve. It's like four little connectors on the thing that you plug into the headphone jack.
So if you have a headset that's wired correctly that has not only ear buds, also a microphone, then and it's wired properly for the device, then you can plug that in and use that microphone rather than the microphone that's built in the device or phone.
Or you can use a Bluetooth headset, of course, as a microphone and use that in conjunction with it.
Apparently, that's not the way the Nexus 7 was designed. The devices that, you know, are headsets that would work with other Android phones and things like that, and use external headset, not with the Nexus 7, so there's no way the hardware might give.
And even a Bluetooth headset will not sing properly. I tried this with some Bluetooth headset that I have. I still have another headset or key to try to see if this remains to be true or, in fact, a fact, but, you know, that's a kind of fail for me because I, you know, I'm all about, you know, being on mumble and walking around the house and talking with the guys.
And, you know, that's not as good a situation when I'm using the internal mic as opposed to a headset mic of some type.
So, if you do a lot of skyping or Google hangouting and you, you know, this will work for that. In fact, I did one with Kevin O'Brien, who is the guy who does PR. He's a hookah. Here on HPR, and he is the,
the one I'm searching for, the Public Relations guy, for an iOS test coming up in September. And he was trying to test out some audio and video connection because there's going to be doing lots of skyping and Google hangouting and things like that for being on different shows and promoting the Linux test.
And so, you need somebody to test it out and I was working and I had dealt with the next of seven, but it was the internal microphone. So, that's a fail. And then there is the, well, no three. I really be technological fails.
And then there is just a generalized thing that was a big fail in my mind. And that is, Google doesn't know how to sell me physical goods.
You know, when I order something from Amazon, who's admittedly, I mean, even they have to, they're going right after Amazon with this, okay. They're going after the Kindle Fire. And so, that's who I'm comparing them to. That's one of their big competitors, right?
It's not just Apple. It's also the Amazon buying experience and the ecosystem. And when I buy something on Amazon, then I go to Amazon and I can see about my order right there on Amazon and I can track my package and it will then allow me to track it.
Now, in Amazon's case, the last thing to track the package right there in Amazon, in some cases, you know, you click bad and it goes off to the UPS side or, you know, whatever it is that was shipped with and you can track it there.
So, I'm on going to one space. With Google Play, you pre-ordered it on Google Play, but then when I back to, go back to Google Play, I couldn't find any place to look at my order. She was stateless.
Because there was also kind of a mini-fail that they actually started having things stuck in stores before they actually delivered devices to people pre-ordered. That always bothers me, you know.
If you pre-order, you want to get it before I could walk into the store and buy it, you know. I'm just saying. But, another trying to get a feel for how many items they need to have and what channels and stuff.
So, I went back to the email that I got about my order and it was rounding you over to Google Wallet. Now, technically speaking, yes, I came for it with my Google Wallet.
But, should I really go to Google Wallet? You would think that everything tells me that Google hires people that are smartest people in the room, right?
You take tests to see how smart you are before you could work for Google. Surely a whole bunch of people who are usually the smartest people in the room could figure out a way to integrate their own Google Wallet site with their own Google Play site so that I'm not having to go to a physical, different URL to get to my order.
It just seemed odd to me. And then the whole thing, I mean, literally, I was having to talk to the very pleasant young man and he literally couldn't tell me for sure what the status of my order was.
Whether it was on a truck somewhere, you know, they kind of fell down in the hole. And I'm sure, because it was a long, long wait time in the queue.
And I'm sure that long, long, late time in the queue to talk to a Google representative was because of these types of orders that were supposed to be coming and people were calling about them.
So we all know that, you know, Google, you know, telephone kind of customer care has not been stellar. But in this case, when you start simply physical goods, you got to start thinking about this more.
So anyway, other than that though, Google Nexus 7 is a buy. And I am at my destination. So I am going to bid you a due. And we will talk to you next time about my latest gadgets. And you should call them that appropriate.
And tell us about your latest gadgets, your latest projects, or your latest buying experience of your technologies. And in the meantime, look forward to some future episodes coming from me.
I'm also doing audio booths up there. If you look at Google plus and my Twitter stream, my Mr. gadgets on Twitter. And you can find some things there about what it is that I'm doing with audio booth, which is a little kind of five minutes micro podcast kind of a thing.
And so I'm doing some regular entries there if you're interested on audio. I'm also Mr. gadgets. And I will, as I say, have in Google plus, as well as over on Twitter, different things that I have posted there.
And in the meantime, you'd be careful out here on the technological frontier. And I'll be out here trailblazing for you. And we'll talk to you later. Bye now.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener by yourself. If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club. HBR is funded by the Binary Revolution at binref.com or binref projects across the sponsored by Liner Pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to LinerPages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under creative comments, attribution, share a line, lead us our license.
