Episode: 1456
Title: HPR1456: HPR Community News for January 2014
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1456/hpr1456.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 03:24:37

---

Do you listen to intense music?
When in this camp I'm enjoying what tonight is, it's Dave Morris.
Hi Dave, long time no see.
Yes, yes, it seems like a week since I last saw you.
For those of you who don't know Dave and I were at FOSTEM 2014 and it was fantastic.
It was great, yeah, amazing event.
Anyway, those of you joining HFUR for the first time,
this is a once a month show that we do to kind of go around what news has been happening in the
HPR community in the last month. And as usual we introduced a new host that have uploaded
shows in that interview period. And as usual I try and get somebody else to do it.
So today Dave I'm afraid that's you.
Oh gosh. Yes, since since the last recording we've had Mirwee,
I want to say that in a strange foreign accent, sorry about that, Mirwee, Sian, Tojette,
J.A. Mathis and Bill M.I. Billy Michigan I think that is.
Yes, it could be yes, it could.
Yeah, he appears on or at least he's in the chat for Mintcast, often here his name there.
Good, good, good.
So today what we normally start off doing is reviewing some of the shows that happened in the
previous month, but we just want to rewind a little bit earlier than that to talk about
and media media shows which kind of got overshadowed in the period of December because of the
they were that week straddled at 2013-2014 and we had lots of stuff going on.
So his first one was Pirate Parties which he had a little bit of a coup actually. He went around
OHM 2013 in the Netherlands and gathered up all the members of the Pirate Party that were there
and opened a very interesting discussion which I think we discussed this already.
They been in a shop to everybody about the hopes he had to go through to get a political party
going in the Netherlands. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I really enjoyed. Sorry, go ahead.
On the other hand, there are loads, loads of political parties in the Netherlands.
Probably a few more of the limiting the numbers, probably what they're trying to do.
Yeah, yeah, we've had odd bunch like the Monster Raving Looney party in Britain
which is just like a joke really, I think. But the Pirate Party, although it sounds
joky, is very serious. I think it's, I thought that was, I thought Nido did a fantastic job
and the people talking there had some amazing things to say. Maybe three things.
I was going to say, made me rethink my attitude towards these guys and politics in general, I think.
Yeah, always good. I think the people on HGOR should be away from doing political shows.
That was one of the founding principles of HGOR. If you don't particularly agree with the
Pirate Party or whatever, feel free to send them a show of your own. See how I did that, see how I did.
More shows. And the following day we had another one from OHM, HGOR Live,
which was 1412, advancing local communities. And this was a, this was a, by the way, just in case,
people don't know, these were HGOR shows broadcast live on FM in that region of the Netherlands.
They got a broadcast license and this was going out over FM. And I'm sure there are many
turn-up farmers down there that were very interesting, very interested to hear what was going on,
that's at the big event of the road. Yeah, good stuff.
Was there something weird about the tent or something that NIDA was broadcasting from?
I know there was some tent collapse later on, but there was all sorts of strange noises off.
What was that? Yeah, the following day, which was the power of DNS one, which is important
that what happened was the, it was very hot and there was a lot of wind and it was blowing
the tent apart essentially. Okay. And the creaking ear was the wind blowing the aluminium
frame or aluminum frame from side to side, creating all that noise, which was a bit unfortunate.
But yeah, and it was also a bit unfortunate to say we were discussing, you know,
power DNS with Bert Herbert. To be honest, I could have gone talking to that guy for another
hour or two with a problem. Yeah, absolutely. I think I can imagine that I wanted to do something
important there then. Yes, he was he was just started a really interesting anecdote there.
The day that I forget, I forget who the parties were now, but it was some famous names,
like John Postel or something like that. And then bam, the tent falls down. Yes, it's all
going to cover up. Then we had the operating the lights at OHM and you really want to Google some
of the, are not Google. Do some image searches using your favorite search engine or choice
to have a look at some of the lighting it was, it was actually fantastic. The view.
Yeah, it sounded, it sounded amazing. I have not a chance to do that search that you mentioned,
but just just from the description, it's an amazing amount of work it could go into.
Yes, particularly, and they're also looking for, you know, advancing it, so there's a lot of
all sorts of software could be used and it's important to do still some property stuff, but there
you go. All right. Then Libro Office, OHK, working with page styles. And this is, this is actually
cool. People, I don't know if people use page styles half enough. They are very, very, very handy.
Yeah, yeah, I taught myself how to do that, but hookers stuff is really, you know, when you teach
yourself stuff, you just learn enough maybe to do the job at hand and then you walk away and
don't bother with it again, it's nice to hear somebody covering some of the stuff. Oh, can
you do that as well? Great. And as I've said before, you know, I always, I'm fairly experienced
with all the software having supported it for longer than I care to admit. And yeah, so every time
I hear his topics, I think, God, you know, will I skip this one? And then, you know, two minutes in,
he's like, oh, this and this and then you go, right, okay? I don't know as much as I think I know
about this topic. Yep, that's the way of it. And then 14, 16, the saga begins. That was the New
Year Show. Yes. Why can I say not talking to me after this? It was, yes, a magnum opus if ever there
was one. And it's still not over. We have coming up now next week is all the, sorry, it's all the
end after show stuff. So that's that we've discussed in that next month. Yeah, yeah, I just started
listening to the first of those. So I'll do five, five ads. I'll do a quick scan through what
happened here. I don't know how I'm going to do this. There was loads of stuff. Sorry, we're just
going to have to skip over all the New Year show. The New Year show was the New Year show. Let me see,
one, we retired. Kids were not about microphones. We were talking about Linux distals. Then we went on
to, I was talking about Raspberry Pi. No, I can't do this. It's too thin to live in the memory.
No, I'm lost for words. Still, I didn't. It was just overwhelming, but amazingly good. I enjoyed
I enjoyed them very much. I think the inferno, so they breaking up, you know, introducing the
different time zones did on one hand, it terminated good conversations. And on the other hand,
it encouraged other people to come in and talk. Yeah, yeah. The show notes to help a lot,
I think that was a great, great addition this year, I think. Absolutely. And it was done
on every note, so that was, I was actually fantastic. And we noticed that, I mean, we have brilliant,
these brilliant journals. There are people just filled in what we're talking about. And I missed
that really with the subsequent after show because, you know, I had nothing to go on just,
this is part one of the after show, part two of the after show. So if anyone's listening to the
after show and can make notes, then we can use those, excuse me, we can use those to
fill in the show notes. Yes. That's a good undertaking, yeah. Yeah, good luck with that.
Okay, we'll skip all those and thank everybody again for all the work involved in it. And I
actually like to hear people's comments back on the new year show, is that something that we
should continue to try and do? And I know when I was talking to people about them, they couldn't believe
that we did that. So that was quite funny. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I tell it, the only, the only note I've
got here against it, because I do keep notes on these things, just so I got something to say
if I joined in the community news, was on the part three, there, somebody came up with the idea
of listing interesting packages, that interesting applications and stuff that they recommended.
And I thought that was really good. In fact, there were also noted down was excellent.
In the 2018, 2018. Exactly. Exactly. That was pretty cool as well.
Now I really thought the show notes really added to it. And can somebody remind me next year
that after we stopped the recording, just before we stopped the recording, say what time it is,
and as soon as you start the recording, again, say what time it is in UTC.
That was really, really hard to edit it.
No, so yourself. The more than that went, it went quite swimmingly as well.
Okay, then we had Ahuka with statistics and polling, which I really liked, because
this reminded me of some of the statistical stuff that I set through in college. It was nice to
actually to sit down and re-hear a class from college and have life experience to know why that's
important. Same here, really. I did statistics at uni and never really understood it,
but it's made more sense as I've got older, I think, slightly.
Well, yeah, it's used so many places that it's important for your BS detector to be able to go,
okay, what do I need to look at here? Yeah. Okay, the following day was C-Prompt,
Curtis Hopkins, with setting up and using SSH and Sox. Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant, brilliant,
brilliant, brilliant, brilliant, brilliant, brilliant, brilliant episode.
Absolutely, yeah. I've started putting HBO shows in a listen again, Q, and this is right in there.
When the hell I'm going to listen to them, I don't know, but definitely going to get a re-listen.
None of this. I did a short way back when this was kind of covered in it, except
instead of using the dash D option, instead of using the built-in proxy at the time I used
a squid proxy for one reason or another, I actually needed, I sometimes use it to look at APIs for
some of the various different apps that I'm using, what API calls they're making as well.
So in that case, I already had a Sox proxy working, but this is handy for anybody who's
who wants to use SSH to get out on the internet. And I know his example was getting out from
work, so just one morning is that you need to be sure that your work allows this sort of stuff,
so be careful. But I have used this for work where a machine inside various different levels
of firewalls needed to get a package from the internet or something, then you can do a SSH proxy
like this to be able to do that sort of thing, so that's really cool. Yeah, cool. Then CT
catches us in the act, monty the man, man behind your databases, very, very cool snag interview
for us here on a HGL. Yeah, yeah, very professionally done, I thought.
Yeah, perfectly. I love his show notes every time he sends them in, it's like everything is perfect
and filled in properly and not too much stuff and stuff, so he has it down. Just in case you don't
know, he's got his own podcast as well, so it's aiit.se4 slash review if you're looking for that
yeah, it does mention it occasionally, I have some of his HPR shows, he's mentioned it, I know.
But good stuff, excellent, I really enjoyed that one as well.
Then we had OHM Live Mini censorship and hacking in the Netherlands, so this was a
Brenel, he hijacked Brenel on one officials to talk about hacking and stuff around, and this
you know, they're talking about just in the, they were talking about how big an impact was,
but I know Brenel was well used in the local blog and at the time, every newspaper, every new show
was all about this and then when you come into work, the guys were going, hey, have you heard this,
have you heard this, have you heard this, but we're all on Delix Stream getting, well we weren't
on Delix Stream by and these, these card readers and stuff, so it's pretty good.
Yeah, so it's a significant impact.
Yes, yes, I wasn't sure how to react to this because the aspect to this
made me so angry and in other words, it feels so sad that, you know, biocracy does these things
to people, it's really quite an emotional ride I thought, listening to this.
Yeah, I think it's a, I think we're in a period of, you know, we have a, we have a period of
balance, you know, people don't understand technology, and I think, you know, people have been
using the excuse, oh, we don't understand technology, so we don't need to, we don't need to take
notice of it, but I'm myself, I'm not taking that excuse from anyone anymore, everybody has
computers and everybody needs to know, like, the basics of what's going on in the world,
and I've been talking to some people since this episode, you know, on the train and stuff
about it, and people are very aware of where the information has been a lot more aware of
the privacy and they, you know, I don't think there is gullible about it as they would have been
years, years before the, do you see more knowledge of along the subject?
Yeah, yeah, so gradually, gradually, something will, will change, it will change this,
that the message will get through, oh, the old geysers, who don't understand this stuff will fall off.
Well, I don't know, is it that they don't understand the tape, or is it that they're taking advantage
of the fact that most people don't comprehend it? I don't know, I don't know.
You know, you think that the Metro, they already, apparently, and this is also Stampti,
as you know, just told it by a random ticket inspector on the train, that they sell off the
information to the public oyster card, or the equivalent to the oyster card in the Netherlands,
they sell that off to marketing companies to know how many people come into the train stations
at particular times a day. Yeah, yeah, this, this, yeah, there, there will be data
protection laws in, in Netherlands, as there are in the UK, I'm sure, that, that should be controlling
that sort of stuff, isn't it? I mean, is, is it the fact that it's not personal information,
but is merely numbers, one that allows it to happen? Yeah, but in, in some cases, you can
determine the personal information by, by doing the, the clever statistics on the, on the data
that you have. Yeah, and anonymizing is not as simple as people think. Exactly,
rather than that the, the, the AOL thing where they released the anonymized data, and then they
were able to go back and find out, you know, from people, which was unfortunate, the guys got
sacked for that, and their hearts were in the right places for releasing some clever researchers
went back and were able to determine the algorithm and, and we're basically able to out a lot of
people. So there you go. Anyway, enough about that. The following day was Libra office writer frames,
which clarified frames to me were the most frustrating thing to find in the definite, so this
helped a lot. Absolutely, absolutely, absolutely, go. Just what I wrote down here, I've used frames
and always wanted to do more with them and never been completely able to do it. And this, this
really shed lots of light on, on how to do things with frames. Amazingly powerful feature. So
great, fantastic. And we're going to go and do things with frames soon, so I get a moment.
Then we had David Whitman, who visited Roodlue, which is a recycling electronics legal
Linux user for education. This is nice, because I've been following Ken's blog for years,
and it was really nice for him to catch up. As you mentioned, Ken couldn't really want to come on
himself, so this was a very nice review without putting his friend into the, into the, I don't know,
uncomfortable position of coming on. Yeah, I thought that was great. And the way that David
Whitman did his report that was great, it was a really nice sort of casual informal chat about
what had happened. I have heard Ken on the, I think he's, he's visited Mintcars, I mean,
Custy, he's been on and spoken about what he's been doing. He's definitely been on Tills.
Quite good. Yeah, yeah. Good, but he seems to be doing really, really fantastic stuff.
And the next day we had, decoding HVR 1216, the easy way out of it more. This was, this is cool,
this is just amazing. I just feel so stupid. I never would have thought to do this. I don't know
why. I just, I don't, gone, sorry. Sorry, I, well, just to let people know, just in case they didn't hear
for April Fool, the accreditation of doing an April Fool's thing every year, since HVR started,
it's something wacky. And this year I did one, I just did a Wikipedia article on,
and compared to that to Morse code, and just put it out. And since then we had a,
yeah, two to level three, your own good, 13, 14, three and 12, 16, two, two initial episodes on this.
So it's, it's very good. This one was pretty cool because I'm, I'm actually trying to study
for my, I'm radio license, and not that CW is part of that anymore, but it's still pretty cool.
But it's also handy for the new year show, as that whole way to use Pulse Audio controls to
do a looping. That was interesting for me as well. Yes, yes, that's definitely one of my listen
again, and mess around with FL Digi list. Indeed. And then another, I think, a, a, a, byseti,
another, what do you call that one? What are these paper guys call it when you get an interview?
Scoop him in, I mean, I know the scoop. Thank you, yes. I like the, his show notes he has,
we're actually working on Linux support calls. I don't know if I'm supposed to say that.
Yes. So that's good. And that's another interview in myself, but it's, it's nice to see people
working on some, I'm talking. Oh, absolutely. Yeah, yeah. I'm insane, but I'm not a gamer,
but it's interesting to hear. And then our two favorite people listening on the chat type
conversations is Hongke McGoo and Kevin Whisher discussion, debbieing sources that list by
and sorry to Hongke for putting that out without the, some reason I just forgot the, I
forgot on the copying and pasting over to add some of the show notes, but I got that sort of
in the end. So there you go. That's it. I do actually do some, this app pending work is pretty
cool. If you do need to get a debbie and package from testing or a seed. Yeah, I thought it was
fascinating. I didn't know you could do that. I've not been a debbie and user, although I've just
installed it on my machine I built over Christmas. And so I'm off to, seems like at a moment,
to check that all out and learn how to do it properly. So I should be listening again.
Yep, there's one thing about, yeah, there's one thing about pinning that you need to be aware of
is if you do a distro upgrade, it will upgrade all the packages to the current release. If you do
a pinning and you set the priority of the current release higher than the other ones when you do an
upgrade, you'll need to reinstall the, you know, the packages that you took from the higher
repos. But then again, sometimes if you do a distro upgrade, you've already got it from the higher
repos, so there's no need to. Okay, I could.
Yes, the best of YouTube downloads scripts. This is something, not the best of YouTube downloads,
but this is something I'd like people to, you know, to send in. It was start to buy,
I didn't start to start to buy, who was it? Oh, the name is good to me. Sorry people,
I'm very, very tired. A while back. Can you remember his name? Let me just check.
Sending in bash scripts and, you know, little tips and tricks.
Okay, namescapes me if I don't know. I'll think. I can't think. Yeah, sorry about that.
Everybody's screaming at the microphone. Probably I will be when the hearers are on. So there's been
a few comments to this. Dave, you send in the comments of all of us. Yes, I was just so teasing you
slightly as ways of different ways of doing loops with a, with an iterating value.
There are many ways of, many ways of doing it in bash. Yeah, but you were saying there was a good
reason for doing that. Um, you, you using, yeah, well, you used to see, I was just looking for it.
I can't find it because I've shut down my mail client. Because it was, uh, interrupting me.
Um, uh, yeah, you used the, uh, seek command, SEQ command, which is a way of generating
a sequence of numbers, but bash contains a feature for doing that already. Um, and the pipeline
that you had built had to, to, to, or more processes in it, because each individual element between
the pipes, um, produces an independent process. Um, and I tend not to do that because I used to work
on systems way back in the day, which, um, at that time seemed, wow, we got really powerful
work sessions on our desk, but now they, they, they look incredibly powerless. And we were using
them as multi-use systems. And we had piles of students in there in like 50, 100 people in there
trying to do stuff. And they constantly were constantly running out of processes. So every script
that you ran that needed to generate processes to make pipelines, uh, could fail because there weren't
enough processes left on the system, um, to, uh, to, to complete the pipeline. So I tended to write
scripts as a consequence of that. That, that, that went for the, the maximum efficiency. So I
tend not to do that. It's just, I mean, it's, it's a daft thing in some ways because there, there's no,
there's no constraint like that anymore unless you're running on a very, very tiny machine. Um,
but it's just something that's got ingrained. So, um, so that was, that was my comment to you about this.
I should have put it in the comments, actually. I tend to, tend not to use that comment for
I'm sorry about that. Yeah. Um, you should do if you can. That would be, yeah, I will add that
because then it makes it more, more public. And the, yeah, exactly. There was also a mention that,
which I didn't know, of course, was, uh, that sequence you can actually count down, um,
which Ron said that in sequence first increment last. So you can go seek 100 space minus one,
space one, which is pretty cool, actually. Yep. I don't know. I like sequences. It's,
it's clear to me what's going on when I go back after, but the whole point of this thing,
the whole point of this was if you've got some hacks that, you know, it's more, it's empowering
to be, have a little script to do something. And if you've got a few of those, why not share it with
us? And I'll be first to admit this script is a, is a bit rough.
But it's, I don't think it is really to be honest. I think it's, it's absolutely fine for what,
what you want it to do. It's clear, it's laid out nicely. You can, it's easy to read. You put
things in variables. Um, to me, it looks, it's fine. Just, it's just irritating people who say,
I wouldn't do it that way. If I were you type of thing that come in and make comments. Yeah, I
don't, I don't find that irritating. Oh, that's cool. That's another way to do it. Just good.
Anyway, um, the following day, talking 2014 in my bill in Jezra, and you'll notice Dave,
you'll notice that these two guys made predictions last year and didn't put them in the show notes,
and they made predictions this year and didn't put them in the show notes either.
Do you, do you, that's terrible. I didn't know it's actually to the mention it. Yeah. Yes.
Well, yes. Next year, we'll expect to show now next year where it goes. Yeah, we got them all right.
Our predictions were fine.
So, I enjoyed it. It's good. Next day was, uh, I met an all-fan comment in foreign, um, in
during the New Year show, um, slagging off the Fahrenheit system or, I don't question,
questioning the Fahrenheit system. And, uh, so, um, Sayan, give me a buzz, ask me, uh, to come on and
do a chat about it. So, um, so that was, that actually, I think that annoyed a lot of American
listeners, which, uh, Donald, uh, was kind of miffed about it. And, uh, he, he deported me to, uh, a,
effect that, um, it's, it's based on the soil, water saturation point of water. So, I went
and looked at the, what the US Navy had to say, and they said the freezing port of water is 28.4
degrees Fahrenheit, minus two degrees, sense grid. And then Wikipedia contradicts that. And, uh,
but my whole point is, um, I, I don't know why the arbor eternally picked 32 degrees.
The good news is, some of the answers are doing another show about it. Yes, yes, yes.
I'm looking forward to it more about it. I, I, I agree with you on the, the arbor
eternally. So, I mean, um, when I was a kid, we, we were taught Fahrenheit, um, because I'm old
enough to have, to come from, from that era. And of course, we also had pound shillings and
pens before we decimalized our money. So, so, so I've been through a number of these changes
and send a grape makes, seems to make a lot more sense. Um, but it wasn't an easy transition,
you know, you, you, you say, oh, it's a warm day today. Oh, yeah, it's 80 degrees. Yeah, wow,
that's, that's pretty hot. And what is the hell is that in centigrade? I still struggled slightly.
And all those ridiculous conversion things, nine over five and minus 32 and all that stuff,
was a horrible thing for, for kids to have to play about with. But, um, you know, well, I mean,
Celsius is equally arbitrary. It's that you pick zero, yeah, a freezing and a hundred us, uh,
but it does seem a little more logical that somebody said, you know, it's bloody cold.
Given that the, that the only, that the simple criteria for setting points are freezing point
and boiling point at, at sea level at, you know, the, the, the appropriate air pressure and so forth.
Um, and, uh, so peg those, as, as those points, that seems like a nice logical thing to do,
as opposed to 32 and 212. And it also fits in, it's, it's, it's, it keeps in step with, uh,
the, the Kelvin scale. Yeah, but that came afterwards. So yeah, yeah, yeah.
Anyway, we're cutting all the people's shores here. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, uh, let's continue
this conversation next one. Okay. Although, uh, 50 and 50 did a very good one. The, uh, I just
read the show notes, uh, is common. Zero Fahrenheit is really cold outside. A hundred Fahrenheit is
really hot outside. Zero Celsius is fairly cold outside. A hundred degrees Celsius, you're dead.
Zero Kelvin, you're dead. A hundred degrees, you're dead. Yeah.
Yes, yes, yes. Wait, whatever you used to, I think in, in many ways, it, uh, anyway, right.
Exactly. And, uh, okay, cool. Moving on. We want to, although one thing I will say, I,
I'm, I'm now considering insulting Americans more often so that people will do retribution
skills. I'm about to get more shields in. So if you don't want me to criticize your country or,
whatever, then you better start sending in shields, guys, or I'll start getting desperate.
Conquertral. Conquertral. Uh, boy, no. Oh, boy. I thought we did, do we not have a few,
a few episodes about, uh, uh, muskets, or did I hear that? Yes, yes. Somebody did something about,
about, uh, muscle loading, um, guns and stuff. That was of interest to hackers, I have to say. Okay.
A group of Ubuntu quickly ebook template in this episode, Mike Hingley talks about Ubuntu's
quick ebook template project, which is actually cool. This, uh, this allows authors to, um,
put ebook style pubs, uh, books into the Ubuntu packaging system using, uh, using, um,
PPAs. Yeah. Yeah. I'm juicing this quickly, um, facility Python quickly, facility,
which I remember being discussed way back on, is it something like a log radio or something?
Bill, you're going to answer it here in HR, about it. I'm a little bit. No, you're right. Yeah.
That was on, uh, log radio actually. Yeah. Yeah. It was. It was. I remember because I played around
with it and thought, oh, that's neat. That's a great way to, there's, there's some pearl
equivalents to that as well, actually. Um, but anyway, it's another, another issue altogether.
Cool. Um, so the following day is why I made my account free Android, an account free
Android. This was pretty cool, actually, because, um, I was recently, I don't know, I don't know
what I did. I decided one day, oh, wouldn't it be a good day? Oh, I know what happened. I saw
an article that said that say I was ready for my model of phone, and it was my model of phone,
version, blah, every model, except the actual model that I have. And I've got to do a backup,
like the Nadia, and then just, uh, just, uh, it was a disaster. And then I had to reinstall
everything. And unfortunately, this episode was uploaded afterwards. It was pretty cool.
Yes. Yeah, it was, it was an interesting thing. Um, the prospect of being somewhat more
Google free is something I'd really like to, to achieve as well. Yeah, I just prefer to keep the,
information, you know, under my own backup, uh, under my own control. Um, more probably,
but here's an interesting thing. And I think it was mentioned on the New Year show as well.
That, uh, yeah, you can find everything on the internet, you know, every file is available on
the internet. And my experience has been lately, you know, that's not true. You can find references
to every file on the internet, but the actual files are invariably pointing back to one single
location. And this makes it very easy for people to, you know, either intentionally or unintentionally
take that file off the internet. And it's not available on your own. And you'll notice that.
Yes. Yes. Yes. It's very frustrating if you're particularly looking for a thing, isn't it?
Yeah, exactly. A site, uh, a site goes down. And this has happened to many projects.
For example, the, um, I think everybody remembers the, uh, Gen2 Wiki, when that went down,
people, there was no copy of the thing. It was on one server. That was it.
Yeah. Nasty. So, um, I would, and, you know, to say, okay, Google has a copy of it and the
Google versus everywhere, but, you know, they have, uh, they have a three location policy as well.
So they have it in three different places and they have a three backup servers. But
that's only six places, you know, I would prefer that it might possibly be. I would prefer to have
my own backup strategy where I know where it is. Oh, absolutely. Yes. Yes. Very much so.
No, there's some great ideas that I really want to go and do some of those, those things.
Go on. Sorry. No, no, I have nothing more. Well, I was looking at one of the things that really
annoys me. I'm a recent convert to smartphones. Um, I only got a smartphone a few months ago.
And I really dislike the, uh, the Google, um, whatever you call it, the, the, the, the people thing
or whatever it, the context thing. I'd really like to have something based around something
that I control and being in a bit of an LDAP freak back in my work, work experience. I would
like to have something based around an LDAP structure, which I controlled. So, I'd really like
to build something like that and, and sounded like there are lots of possibilities in that direction.
That, that seems actually pretty cool because I have, I've loads of contacts everywhere and I don't
particularly need that information to be given to anybody. I don't need my parents who have never
been on the internet phone number out there for everybody to see or, um, data birds. It's just
information that nobody other than my family needs to know. Thank you.
Yeah. Exactly. It also, it also gives you the option to go in and do your consolidation and not
have things all over the place and be able to export free cards and all the rest of the goods.
Exactly. So, exactly. So, yeah. Um, I did have a, have a chat with John Culp about this,
sometime last year with a view to put together a show about that subject, not finished yet, but
something. So, got stuck. Not making a list at all.
I hear you, yeah, I'm done to show this year. There's this one, can't. But anyway, yes.
The 14, the last show of the month was a Libra office writer of frames, properties,
completers. And for those of you who are worried, Ahuka has sent in loads of new shows and
they are all available to you on the HBO website, but we'll be released in the fullness of time.
Cool. Yes. Good frames. Yes, yes, I enjoyed that. I didn't know you could chain them together.
Didn't know that. I didn't know. To be honest, I'm still not convinced that they're needed in this
world. No, it's, yeah, I don't know. When I set up my, I was a consultant for a while and I tried
to do a, um, you know, three panel brochure type thing and I tried to do it using frames and
could not get it, get the text to flow between, between the panels and all that sort of stuff.
And that was just because I'm an idiot probably, but I'm sure if I'd understood frames better,
I could have done a better job of it. Okay. Let's have a look at the news and you can find this
ask. Actually, I did some business cards for Foster. They actually went on quite well, I think,
a bit closer perhaps, but they're good. I gave one to my son, the other day, who immediately scanned
the, um, the thingy, what do you call it, code? What's it called? QR code and said, yeah, it works,
yeah, fine. So yeah, so I put up shortcuts to everything. So if you do Hacker Public Radio.org
forward sash feed, we'll bring you to the RSS feed, forward sash IRC, we'll bring you to a
mail client or a web client for free node. G main will bring you to the mail archive,
mail lists will bring you to subscribe to the mail list. There's a bug with the current mail
list software we can't get an archive. So it's now archived at G main anyway. So you can, the
advantage of that is you can use a newsreader to read and I don't know if you can reply to
somebody might want to try that. But anyway, you can read the mail list through that.
forward sash iTunes will bring you to iTunes for such Twitter, Twitter, Google and the plus sign,
LinkedIn or Walmart.org has no spaces. Facebook and archive.org. So all of those are there.
And if we go to G main now, we see that the latest one was, oh yeah, I did a show swap.
So Peter 64, a job of maybe you just swapped a show so that doesn't affect anybody except
those guys. Dave talking about the community news, free node was down, talked about us,
about the FOSTEM table, and David Whitman sent in links north west 2014 HPR table. I have had a
table HPR links fast north west for at least two years was my intention to repeat this in 2014
to apply and promote the AFC and the ARCA screen reader project and do it in so much during the
past. So if you want to talk to him, he's going to be unable to attend this year. So if
there's somebody else willing to come and help please contact Dave Whitman or apply to that
on the website. Kevin O'Brien sent in about the Libra Office updates that he put a brochure
together for so that people going to pass can print off a little brochure that they can fold up
for a HPR spill.
The after show was still running. What potatoes this? Second of January as 850.
That's it. That was that was pretty much all the threads for the new for the
mailing list. Cool. I know coming shows we have John O'Bake in a Stewart language talk to
Pokey. There was a Pokey went into great detail about how John O'crofted Stewart so they got
into a bit of a tizzy about that and we get another show about it. So more of the story is
big controversial folks and you get loads and loads of shows coming in. Then we have Jonathan coming
up with the Google Summer of Code. One to tell you about that right now if I may. And the mentoring
organization application deadline is coming up at the end of next week. So February the 14
that's going to close in between 11 a.m. and 12 p.m. Pacific time. So if you're a mentor for the
Google if you want to be a mentor for the Google Summer of Code you need to get your
act together ASAP. Link will be in the show notes. So if you go to show notes for this episode or
actually there's no point by the time this episode is out it'll be long gone. You're too late. Too
late suckers. Enough about that no point talking about it. Then we have Fahrenheit 0 to 100 which
is Bill in MI. Interesting deal but that's going to be a lot. Then we have a J.A. Mattis. What is
Firefox OS? 22 in the series on Libra Office writer of other frame styles. Following week we have
an interview with the F123 group which is a discussion that come up. It's a project and accessibility
project. I was put in touch with them by the developer of the Orca project. Then we have the first
of the FOSTEM interviews in which I get an interview with the FOSTEM volunteers, the OSG or project,
Geomias, OpenStripMap, LibraGraphics Magazine, OpenSociety, the Devon project,
Herman OS and CA CERT. Then the following day we have Intro to CableCutting by Tracy Holster,
Timelapse Video by Peter64. Thank you again Peter for allowing us to swap. My mobile digital
life by Nightwise and this one I took out of the backup queue. I also took out some of my shows
from the backup queue as well and put them in because we have plenty I think. We still have told
backup shows. Then the next one was an interview with Jeremy Allison from the Samba project. I just
put that out as a separate show because it's completely, we go into great detail. I thought,
why not. Then the following day we're going to have an interview, FOSTEM where I interview the
Thor project, a free software user group inside the European Parliament. Jonathan Randell from
the KDE project is the lead project lead on the Pebuntu. Mozilla, I talked to the project
European Community Builder from Mozilla, Tobias Miller who is on the board of directors of the
GNOME project. We talked to Jim Perons, this is a governing board member of the Sendoass project.
Then we talked to two guys about Foreman, Overt and OpenStack from Red Hat. Then we have the
Jim Ernstmann and Jörg Hoßlav who are Fedora Ambassador steering committee and also Fedora
program manager. That was that's that. Continuing on, we will have several, and then there's
another series of interviews which I haven't posted yet but we'll do shortly. Then some
liberals and some more like most stuff and learning to read the clock.
Yes, your FOSTEM coverage is amazing, I have to say. No wonder you're tired, I need to sleep
for about a week after that. I was with tiredness and the editing has been a lot
now. You don't want much editing, I do chopping off the top front of the back but there was so
many good interviews there with people that you're talking, you're actually talking to project
maintainers or founders of the projects or whatever and it's just very difficult not to continue
talking to them so yeah. Good. Oh, I see you have a photograph here of your interview with Jeremy,
I listen. Yes, I know you got that from. I got a blackmailed fly certain members of the HPR
community. Good. Oh, it's useful. Thanks for that. And yes, as all again, as I was recording that
you'll see me in the picture I'm holding up my Zoom H2 and for some reason the recording went
and resorted to the backup but it actually doesn't come out that bad. So any order is better
than no audio as we say. Oh yeah, absolutely. Yet your backup technique is very impressive.
I've got a lot to learn there. I think full and down is similar whole. I tried to record
I show you yesterday. Anyway, that's another story. It happens to the rest of us Dave,
happens to the rest of us. So I have some stickers and stuff from Foster and if there are people
who want to do stickers, there were some other people who talked to us some really cool
cool people on the sideline and I think if there was any way that we could get a booth at Foster
and that would be fantastic but you would need at least three people full time there on the booth.
Yeah, they stipulate there must be two people at all time don't they? I think the Foster
and Management. I thought that was like a by the by-thing but once you go there there was never a
moment where there wasn't at least you know a queue at every table talking to everybody. It was
absolutely no it's mobbed absolutely mobbed everything every part of it. And that's 5,000.
5,000 plus geeks there. Yeah, they're like project leaders and stuff so they're not there.
Now these are these are powerful powerful people developers.
So I haven't seen any of the videos yet. The links to all all the Foster and videos are in
the show notes as well for this so pretty cool pretty cool. I would love to go I would love to go
there maybe as a you know incorporation with I don't crunch bank clinics where we were thought
thinking about going with phenomenal over and sharing a booth and I'd love to get somebody to
come over as well and do you know help us with the accessible computing foundation. There were
lots of people that there were three people at a table but there was three different projects
at the table. That might be a way to to get a table in as well. Yeah. Good.
That's it Dave, will we finish? Yep, yep I haven't had anything else to add I don't think.
Okay, shall we sing a free song for a song now?
Preferably offline I think in. Thanks everybody for listening and tune in tomorrow for another
exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
Those are we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on
day through Friday. Today's show like all our shows was contributed by a HBR listener like
yourself. If you ever consider recording a podcast then visit our website to find out how easy
it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
computer club. HBR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com. All binref projects are
proudly sponsored by lunar pages. From shared hosting to custom private clouds go to lunar pages.com
for all your hosting needs. Unless otherwise stasis today's show is released under a creative
commons, attribution, share a like, video's own license.
