Episode: 1024
Title: HPR1024: Episode 1024
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1024/hpr1024.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 17:36:47

---

Howdy, everybody. This is 5150 for Hacker Public Radio. This is the episode 1000 and 24, and this is a special episode that we plan to bring back together.
Some of the original hosts from Hacker Public Radio and host from today with the techie are as well represented.
So I'll just go around the room and everybody can say hello and introduce themselves. J-Rulo.
Hello, hello.
Okay. Kla too.
Hi everyone.
Will Jason.
Hey everybody.
And Will Jason is here representing today with the techie. The rest of us are all from Hacker Public Radio and next comes Zoke.
And Mrs. Zoke is with him here today.
Howdy, howdy everyone.
Hello.
And also on the call is Paranoid Shell who was in the Mumble server and I kind of invited him along for moral support because I haven't had as much time as I thought I might to prepare for this episode.
And I thought he might be able to think of a couple of questions to throw out for discussion that I had.
So howdy everyone.
And it's always good to have another country accent in the mix.
I hadn't noticed your accent.
No, everyone's just too obsessed with my night.
Well, I kind of thought we would we would start going around the room and asking everybody why they became a host for HPR or again,
and Will Jason's case.
What made him decide to become a host and how they come up with that for their first episode?
And I'm just going to go down I'm sorry.
I'm just going to go down the list and in order as I see it here in the room on the Mumble server.
So let's start with a rulo and what is it that made you record your first episode for HPR?
Well, I like them and that's what I made my episode on. I only had one episode.
But I use it all the time and I didn't really see anyone else making any shows about it.
So I thought I'd talk about it and that's why I put that one up there.
Okay, and we'll go to claw two, which well everyone knows is the most prolific or public radio host in history.
So I'm sure you'll have a lot to say about his involvement.
Thanks. Now I have to say a lot about my involvement. I was just going to do a one-liner.
Yeah, the first episode that I did was on the codex, I think.
And that was just kind of I heard an episode of a lot of Linux links when Dave Yates was interviewing Stankdog and Enigma.
And I thought, wow, it sounds like a really cool project because it's a community podcast.
I'd never heard of anything like that before.
So I wanted to chip in and do an episode.
And so I decided to do a mini series on codex because that was a big topic that I really, really knew a lot about.
And that was about the only really hardcore technical thing that I did know about at the time.
So that was kind of why I chose the topic that I chose.
And after that, I just kind of kept doing episodes on anything that I wanted to talk about that didn't really fit into my own podcast.
So it was kind of a combination of I think what it sounds like.
J. Rulow's reason was, which was, well, no one else was doing something on this subject.
And I like this subject, you know, kind of scratching your own itch versus just wanting to contribute to a really cool community.
I mean, that to me is one of the biggest and best parts of hacker public radios that it's not just driven by one person.
It's like everyone just making this thing happen.
That's probably really, really one of the more attractive things about it for me.
Okay. Well, Jason, what's your about your experiences back in the old old days with Quattack?
Yeah. So I started listening to bin rev radio way back when I thought it was really cool.
I learned a ton from it and wanted to kind of do the same thing.
So I kind of started my own podcast with a couple of friends in high school and we had a handful of episodes.
But we kind of gave it up. We had other things to do.
And then I heard about Quattack and how everyone could just do an episode anytime they want it.
And it was kind of interested. And at the time I was working with a lot of simple home routers and stuff like that.
You could hack. And I wanted to kind of tell other people about it.
And now we're here from Zoke. And I've got to try and remember all of it.
This was I think back at the end of sort of bin rev and days I got people started talking about some of this.
And I was kind of like, I could do that, you know, but I could do some of this stuff.
And see, I'm a little, oh, I'm not that old really. You know, I'm in my mid 30s.
But, you know, I started off with old, old dust computes and things like that.
And some of the things I learned about people, it's not mentioned anymore.
Like, okay, for example, if you want to do cut copy and paste is, you know, control XCV, yes.
Well, back in, I think it's Windows 3.1. They had a different one for control.
Insert was copy, shift insert was paste and shift delete was cut.
And I'm left handed. So I use the mouse and my left hand. That makes so much more sense.
And those keyboard shortcuts are still around today. But I've not seen since like DOS edit.
Well, they've actually mentioned them. And there's weird stuff like this. And it's like, I could do some of that.
And I didn't do anything much with it. And then, you know, Toyota came through and then it moved into HPR.
And I can't remember who I was talking to. I think it was Stangdog.
And he was sort of hassling everyone say, oh, you know, do episodes. We're doing HPR things.
You got to go do this. And I recorded something on the system terminals.
And wasn't sure it sounded any good. I hate the sound of my own voice.
I think my voice is really cool if you're inside my head. And you hear how I sound to myself.
I then hear myself on recording. And I'm just like, I really, really sound bad.
I, you know, I can't pronounce this. It sounds like fur. And it's just, I just hate the way I sound.
So I really didn't want to record it. And I spoke to Dave Yates and said, look, Dave, can you listen to this and see what you think?
And he looked at that. And he was like, oh, you're an actor. You need to do more. You sound great.
And so I did the first first episode for my first episode for HPR, which I think was number 40.
I looked it up earlier on the current remember now. I think it was number 40.
And I got some very good feedback from it. And everyone seemed to love it. Or they were just being nice to the strange English guy.
And then did several more since. I'm up to, I think, 25 episodes or something. I haven't done any in ages. I need to do some more.
But that's sort of how I sort of fell into it, really. And I still hate the sound of my own voice. But there we go. So I'm going to stop talking now.
I think that's pretty common though. I think a lot of us don't like the sound of our voices once we hear it played back to us.
I know I'm like that every time I hear, well, every time I play one of my few podcasts and I listen, who is that awkward sounding guy?
It doesn't sound anything like the voice inside my head. Or at least, you know, the one voice I talk to people about, not all the other voices.
And on the subject episodes, paranoid shell, since you're hanging here, you, you owe HPR an episode. I'm Chandling Ken here for a minute. And it's one doesn't count.
Damn, failed again.
It has the procedure for since the first, since the first year of HPR and for 12 tech, you know, today, just if somebody wants to become a host,
you can contact admin at hackerpublicradio.org and Ken will provide address and log in for the FTP so you can upload an episode when you're ready.
Technically, it's even easier than that. You could just call the number that they set up and it'll literally record you on the air live and dump your episode into their inbox.
Right. And that's a more recent innovation. I was just, I was just asking, is that the way it's always been or when you guys originally started doing an episode, did you have to email them in or submit them in another way?
As far as I can remember, we, we just dumped it into the FTP box that they gave us. But in order, at least I, I know that I myself, I don't know how other people did it, but I, I wouldn't have emailed them initially. And I was like, pitched my story, you know, like, pitched the idea that I wanted to do an episode on.
You definitely get the feeling pretty quickly speaking to them that they really don't care. I mean, not in a bad way, but like, they're really easy going. Like, whatever you want to do, you, you can do.
So it was, it was like, I emailed them once to pitch the, the initial episodes that I wanted to do. And then after that, it was just go for it, just do whatever you want.
Yeah, the first couple, I think I emailed to Enigma. And then it was just like, no, just stick on the FTP. Here's his name and log in, just do that. It's easier.
And then from then, obviously, I think that I've been around for beforehand. It's just, I didn't know it. So I just, I was emailing him for the first couple, but no, it's, it's not, it's, it's kind of what it really hasn't changed.
I mean, some of the, the names of the people involved has changed, but it's still, if you're that interested and want to put the time into making an episode, someone's going to want to listen to it, we'll take it.
So I don't think it's actually changed that much. Like I said, there's, there's a few different names that are getting involved with, with doing some of this, but it's, it's still, you know, it's open for everyone and still just stick on the FTP.
There are some easy ways now, like I mentioned the phone, but I don't remember it being much different really.
And I think that's one of the things that Stankdog has always said, you know, that HPR should sort of be a living and breathing entity, apart from any one or any, even, even group of people.
You know, it should just kind of be there that is sustained by a community, whoever that, you know, could be rotating members of community.
I mean, I have myself, I've not done an episode in months now. So I mean, the fact that it continues to go on, you know, without enigma, without me, without Stankdog, without, even without kin, I mean, he doesn't really do anything.
I mean, he does everything, but he doesn't do a whole lot, you know, I mean, it's just, it shouldn't matter who's in, who's at the helm that should just keep going.
Okay, I want to throw a few comments in here that I probably should have done at the top. I wonder, my listers, I, of course, we've been talking about for a couple of months in various forms of the lineage of Hacker Public Radio and how it came to be.
And I'm probably the last person to give the definitive explanation of that, but not everybody who would help to be able to join us was able to today.
And, but the Lint, of course, Stankdog started being radio a while back a few years before HPR even came to be.
And at the same time, there was another podcast dealing with sort of phone freaking and security issues and just general events in the open source world, which was radio freak America.
And if you, you really ate all these older podcasts that came before HPR, I think you, anybody who's listening will enjoy going back and grabbing those old episodes.
Of course, Ben Rev is still at www.BenRavBINREV.com and radio freak America. And I'm bringing it up here on the other screen because I had, I just had it open.
Okay, and of course today with a techie, you know, I should really write it down instead of looking for through 50 open windows.
Yes, RFAC Radio Freak America is at www.oldschoolfreak.com. So it's OLDSKOOLPHREAK.com.
And all the, all the old episodes are still there and I had a pretty good day while I was working yesterday listening to some of the back episodes of RFAC that I downloaded random.
And of course, just this week can put up an episode of self into the HPR feed. Just I'm sorry this week is as we're recording this a couple of weeks ago as you folks will be listening to it.
But between our real time and the virtual time when this is going to actually appear in the feed, I believe can have planned several more episodes from the old shows and from the early days of HPR to give everybody a sense of history and homage to what's happening with this network.
But yeah, I had never really spent that much time. Well, I had listened to RFAC before the last couple of days and guys, do yourself a favor, those are hilarious.
So just go point your browser at www.olldskOOLPHREAK.com and we'll have to download all the episodes.
Stankdog had this idea for, well, let me go to the last episode, the last couple episodes of RFAC. They talked about starting a podcast called Hacker Public Radio.
Now, Stankdog can explain it better himself. If you go back to the very first episode of HPR, HPR001 and listen to that, he has the concept or explains the origins of HPR as I understand the way he said it.
He originally meant it as more of a debate series that you would line up people on two sides of an issue, kind of like the great tech debate on another network.
From the way he understands it sounds, that concept sounded fairly similar. That's as it turned out, they actually started the community contributed with no fixed host podcast format with today with a techie.
And that's over to tech.org, TWA, TECK.org, and those episodes are very, very much like if you're a fan of HR.
Go back and grab those because almost all of them eat the tech episodes, it's like going back and listening to Linux reality.
Just about everything in there, even as a tech issue, it's still valid today because we're all still working on the Unix-like operating system and at core, not too many things have changed.
So, go grab those episodes. I'm going to quit rambling now and let somebody else talk a minute. Is anybody else have anything to chime in about the lineage and history of our network?
Just apart from my fairly young upstart kid for considering, you know, I'm coming into HR. And, yeah, I was that fairly early on.
But it's still you've got the radio pre-Germanica and the BIMREV. I don't think you ever said BIMREV stands for binary revolution, but the BIMREV and TWA TECK and all these things.
And I feel that, you know, coming in fairly new to this stuff, when surrounded by all these older people, it was just really young upstart kids and the rest of them are the old timers.
Yeah, I think there's a little bit of, I don't know, I mean, we got a chance with HPR because I think a lot of us are, I mean, certainly you and me, as Oak, apparently, and I know Lord, Drock and Blue, and a few other people that I've talked to were audience members of BIMREV radio and shows like that, where we'd heard this stuff and we just thought it would be so cool to do that, to be one of those people that other people are listening to via podcasting.
You know, and Hacker Public Radio just kind of gave us this platform and said, hey, if you want to be one of us, join in, you know, you're able to do that.
I really think that's cool. I mean, I know that for me, I could have wallowed away and complete just random me talking into a microphone on my own little show that maybe 30 people listen to.
And then suddenly, Hacker Public Radio comes along and it's just like everyone listens to it and I get to be just like Stankdog, you know, talking in every week and doing a show.
It just felt, I don't know, it felt like you get a free level up, you know, it's kind of, it's kind of cool.
I have to agree.
It's going to say it's a bit like the band fan that gets invited up on stage.
Yeah, that's right.
So they're with the band.
Well, the great thing about HPR, or as I've always thought, is you don't have to arrange for your own hosting and set up a website
and hope people are going to come around, start listening to your episodes and you're not under the pressure
to come up with a weekly episode.
And, yeah, Jay Rulo reminded me in the chat that I said the Tualtech address wrong.
I didn't even realize it.
It's TWA TECK.org.
So I apologize on that.
Wait, K? H? Did you say K?
Did I say K again?
TWA TECH.org.
That was well said.
There is no K.
And I should have to have mentioned, of course, also in that history is the Infonomicon Computer Club, which doesn't have a podcast,
but I think it would be, that I know of, but I think it would be fascinating if they did.
There's also hackerimedia.org.
And I thought that was part of the end of DinRev in the beginning of HPR Tualtech, where they put an aggregate.
And now it aggregates all kinds of stuff.
That's a good place to find new shows tech-related.
Yeah, thanks for reminding me of that.
And if you go to the about on the HPR page, you'll find, I think, all those lakes included.
And I'd also want to give a shout out to some of the guys who helped me, at least make sure the message got out to all the people who were involved in those early shows.
Of course, I was able to contact most of the hosts from HPR and Tualtech directly by email, but the guys from our RFA racks and Tual Parallel.
I didn't have the contact information for them, but I understand stankdog did contact them.
I want to thank the stank, because when I'm planning for this episode, I relied on him quite a bit.
Also, Lord Draken Blue, who wasn't able to be here today, he gave me a lot of the history, which I totally messed up in my rambling, and also passed the message along with some people.
And risk-free from Tualtech and, if I'm not mistaken, I think he helped me get the message out to a lot of those people who I didn't have direct addresses for.
And probably everybody else who, since I'm a complete newcomer, well, it's a complete, but as far as a contributor to HPR, my first episode was only a little over a year ago.
So, compared to the rest of these guys, I am a neophyte, and so I wanted to thank all the people and people I didn't forgot to mention or didn't mention that helped me with preparation for the episode.
Okay, my next question was going to be, of course, Caught 2 already had his own series when he started with HR, but does anybody have some interesting or funny stories from sort of the trials and tribulations of getting started as a podcaster?
I kind of have a funny story. My one and only episode that I contributed to HPR was about hacking Sprint Voicemail, and I kind of came across the bug, I guess, that Sprint was doing in the ledship you sent a caller ID to any number that you were calling, that Sprint just interpreted that as you were wanting to access voicemail.
And I thought it was really cool, and I did a podcast and submitted it, and it turned out like three years prior that had already been discovered.
But, you know, I was really, really happy that I found out something on my own, and that's one of the reasons I made that episode 2 begin with.
Well, that's kind of the whole spirit of hacking, and I don't mean, of course, everybody listens to the network and knows we don't mean hacking as in the connotation of looking for an unauthorized access.
But taking software, taking equipment, and looking through it, and seeing what's there that isn't documented.
So, even if that was out there, just because people think that it all invalidates the fact that you were able to find it on your own.
Yeah, and I don't want to condone hacking or any illegal activity. It was something I stumbled across while configuring my own asterisk server at the time.
And it was just kind of cool, no. I think it's since fixed, but at the time, you know, you would think within three years, it would have fixed their problem.
Not necessarily, you know, how some of the same companies are. It's down to whether they get bad publicity, I think. If they do, they'll fix it straight away, if not, they won't.
There was, I can't remember what it was, Microsoft Bug, that had been around for years, and they somewhat have found about it and told them about it.
They hadn't done anything. It wasn't until we went to one of the, I forget which, which convention it was deaf or something.
All the black eye conference and met, did a talk about it. Then they suddenly wanted to fix it.
Well, one of the random RFA's that I picked up yesterday and listened to a stank was a guest. I guess he often was.
And he was talking about how a couple of researchers, I think college kids probably from the way they talk.
Their college was going to the proprietary blackboard software for everything. And it was included.
It was including key coach for the rooms, your meal plan, the snack bar in the commissary or the snack machines.
And how these kids had come up with that they had found what they thought were some security flaws and wanted to bring that to.
They were going to do a project on it or a presentation to bring those flaws to the attention of the university before decision was made on whether just absolutely everything was going to be moved over to the system.
And they were shut down under the digital millennium act that they couldn't, that they couldn't do a presentation, a critic criticizing piece of proprietary software.
And just so the blackboard people, I'm sure you got, if you're out there listing this was years and years ago. So whatever flaws there were, I'm sure been fixed by now.
So it shouldn't be taken as an attack on you guys now. It's just an observation that porting in the same vein has been going on for quite some time.
So if you go back and listen to some of those old thin raves and RFA's and 12 texts, you can see where not a lot of stuff has changed.
Okay, why don't I open it up to the floor? Does anybody have any questions that they would like to address to the panel?
For all the ones who do have a lot, I've already done many. Have you ever got past the nervousness of doing a shower or do y'all still get nervous?
Question for Clatio, I guess, because he's done the most.
I don't think I ever got nervous. For some reason in school, like in film school, they had us do a lot of sort of getting in front of the class and pitching story ideas.
And you know, all these sort of public kind of speaking things. And so I had to do it in school.
And one time I was just like, I'm either going to stop being nervous about this or I'm going to just quit school.
And basically I did both. I stopped getting nervous and I also dropped out of school. But both were great things to do.
And I can talk in front of people as long as it's groups or wide audiences. I can do that without getting nervous.
One on one conversations I get really nervous about. But as long as I think a lot of people are going to hear me, I'll just talk and talk and talk and never get nervous.
So I didn't, yeah, I got past the nervousness. But by the time I started podcasting, I wasn't nervous. I'd already gotten past the nervousness.
I'm a little different. I'm way more nervous in this because it's a free-through talking stuff.
And if I say the wrong words, screw up and it's like, oh no, it's now on like eight different people's recording.
Which is bad. But I was never that worried about recording stuff myself. I would record it and it would be fine when I was recording it.
I'd listen back to it and I'd be fine. And at the moment I was about to hit send on like the first email sent off for the first episode.
And I think that took me about half an hour to actually hit send on that email. I can't really never send.
People are going to hear me, people are going to just... I think most of us have had a similar childhood that we're not necessarily the extroverts.
We're more of the ones that people pick on a little. And it doesn't mean physically beating up and stuff.
But it's always you're the one that sort of... If there's the bus of a joke, you're going to be in the bus with a few of the jokes at school and things.
So I did get a little nervous for the first episode because it was... I'm used to being that one. There's always something about this guy.
When I was a school, for example, I hit puberty early. So I had hairy arms and legs. I still have hairy arms and legs.
Not quite the Robin Williams sort of level, but I'd have hairy arms and legs. And there were some other people who... I mean you're seeing this school system so it's different.
But I guess you would call them jokes over here. We'd be like, oh you know, hey dude, why didn't you shave your arms and legs kind of thing.
And they were... I wouldn't say they made a huge amount of fun on me for it, but it was pointed out that I had hairy legs and other people.
And that was just... Looking back now, it's kind of like what a stupid, retarded thing to make fun of.
Hey, you're growing up faster than me. And I've still got a high-pitched voice, but I'm going to make fun of you for... no.
I don't know. So that was kind of a weird one. But I got... I wouldn't say flashbacks from that, but I got a little nervous from recording it and trying to record some of these things in a lot of...
What if I say something wrong? Am I going to get a bunch... because you've seen the YouTube videos as someone mentioned something wrong.
And there's a billion people saying like, you're an idiot, you're wrong, you're stupid, you're...
And I was more worried about that. And then, like I said, when I...
Again, I thank Dave Hates because I sent him a copy of my first episode I did.
First, and he was just enthralled by it. And at the time, Dave Hates was this.
He's done all these podcasts. And, you know, he was like the man, kind of...
Okay, there's a bunch of other people as well, but he was like the approachable one.
I felt... and he really helped me on that. And I probably end this by saying, well, you know, since I've done all these more episodes,
I stopped rambling on, like, the idiot bringing up school, childhood dreams and issues that I had.
And I'm now the well-rounded example of a podcast that you see before you now.
I think you make a good point, though, so that people in this community are very...
Maybe it's because we all had, like you said, a similar sort of experience in growing up and stuff.
Or maybe it's just because that's how we are. I really don't know.
But it seems like it's a very accepting community. And that might be part of why, for instance, I wasn't nervous when I started submitting episodes.
It just seems like people aren't going to make fun of you. People are like, okay, with whatever you say and how you say it, stuff like that.
So, I don't know. I think... I mean, that's what I want to... many things that I love about the geek community is that we are all very accepting.
We don't... we don't seem like a very judgmental group. You know, it seems like a very sort of, like, come in, do what you want.
Everyone's cool. No one has a problem with anyone else. I like that environment a lot.
Oh, definitely. I mean, part of the thing is, you can make certain judgments about... or your guess is about my voice based on how I talk.
No, you don't know anything about a person apart from their voice. You don't know the color of their skin, their sexual preferences, the religious preferences.
I mean, all these kinds of things. And none of it seems to matter. And, um, 5 to 5,000 have an audio issues, so we may have to recording.
Yeah, good thing the rest of us are recording, which is actually what we said before we started recording that he was... he wanted everyone to record.
But, oh, sorry. So, see, you don't know anything about... I mean, okay, you know, I've got a wife, Mrs. Ok here.
But if I didn't give you that permission to know that, then J. Roolidge says he knew that I was hairy by the sound of my voice.
I think that was a calm moment. I'm not sure.
But it's more of like... it's more... things like, um, Kajari. Yeah, we've been talking to Kajari for months and months in IRC.
And he happened to mention one time, oh, yes, I'm blind. And, you know, we didn't know that.
We didn't treat him any different because of it. He was just a person who we were talking to.
I think that's one of the reasons that we're a lot more accepting because a lot of this stuff, it doesn't matter.
And I do still remember the... I forgot the name of it now, but it's the Hague's Manifesto that's not the Hague's Manifesto.
But everyone calls it the Hague's Manifesto. And it has the line about... we exist without...
I really also find it to quote it correctly.
It was talking about how we avoid all this stuff. Here we go.
We exist without skin color, without nationality, without religious bias.
And I think that's a good thing. And I'm glad to be part of this community that can look beyond all this.
I mean, do we care the class who's an alien? Do we care that I'm English?
Do we care about any of the stuff? Are you a nice guy? Do you know what we're talking about?
Do you have something to input? And do you have something to add to the discussion?
Yes, then come on in. And I think the community is a whole and the podcast Hague Public Radio specifically.
It does exemplify that. I've never... No, actually I had one bad comment on one episode I did.
Which is an episode. We had our power disconnected because they wouldn't let me pay the power bill because it's in my wife's name.
And go figure, it was very bizarre. It's like I've gotten old.
That's not why it was just connected. That's why we couldn't... that's a long story.
I have a stupid male carrier, by the way. Are you dead?
Well, yeah. They said that we'd moved and, anyway, long story. But basically, we'd lost power in it.
It reminded me about being disconnected from the internet and all that. And I didn't have an episode called Being Powerless About It.
And someone put a comment on about how... I forget exactly how they phrased it, but basically saying there was a flood somewhere in a bit.
All the people would love to hear this episode because I was making a choice about being without power.
They didn't, and it was... I was nearly... Basically, I can't remember exactly how they phrased it, but that was the one bad comment I've actually had about an episode I've done.
Okay, your turn, Clotu.
Thinking, thinking.
Are you running on a Mac again?
No, of course not.
No, he's on Slackware, so it's a little bit older than most.
It's not old. He's talking about... Oh, the ceiling distra?
Oh, well, yeah, sure. I thought you meant I was at a date or something.
Now, you just got to download the packages and compile, and then you'll be back up and working.
Well, I think the community actually inherits the unbiased attitude that maybe we inherit from communicating so much via IRC and faceless podcast shows.
Because I mean, the technical conventions that I go to, Southeast Linux Fest, Ohio Linux Fest, B-Sides, all these places, it's like the same spirit.
You know, it's just like people don't really care about what you look like or what you sound like or whether you talk or whether you're really quiet and introverted.
They just don't care.
It's just like they can... people gather around, they know that they all have a common interest, maybe a couple of common goals.
And it's very nonjudgmental.
I mean, paranoid shell was just at Southeast Linux Fest.
How did you feel about the community there?
Yeah, it felt nice. I enjoyed the people. I could get... I talked to some, some seem awkward. I'm not allowed with awkward, so I can't really blame them either.
But it was really fun talking to you and all the other people that were there.
Yeah, I think it's great. I think it's a refreshing thing to be around other people who can be awkward, because it's like, yes, I'm awkward sometimes.
Right now, I'm the one carrying this conversation and feeling confident, and this person is awkward, and we're all okay with that.
We're all okay with our mutual social awkwardness, and I don't know, that's refreshing.
And I guess, I don't know, somehow that's embodied within hacker-public or video as well.
So, come record and let's go to Hubcut Public Radio and be social-do awkward with the rest of us.
Exactly.
That could be the new taglines.
Sorry about that. Welcome back.
In the chat, and while I'm thinking of that, I just wanted to respond to the last thing I heard Zoke say when my system kicked me out a couple of minutes ago.
First, Zoke, I am not editing for content, and if I were to edit this episode for content, I would delete all the parts where I'm speaking and stumbling all over stuff.
And as far as the body here, at least, I knew one guy in college that we called the Hobbit because he had hair on the tops of his feet.
And third, I think.
And the third thing about the social aspect of HPR and the entire community on IRC, or an all-cast candidate on free node, and all other podcasts.
Listing the podcast is just that I think our daily lives, most of us don't have anybody we could talk to about technology that would have the slightest idea what we're talking about.
So, it's just everybody getting together and finding like-minded people, and especially things like using the mumble server where we could actually talk to each other rather than typing messages back and forth and joining a podcast.
And becoming more tightly integrated with the community in that way.
So, I know HPR and the greater open-source community in general is now a big part of what I look forward to being involved with.
So, and where I find a lot of people that I just sit down and rap with.
So, that's kind of my input on that subject.
The topic I was going to end was one to fifty-one fifty leave when he's supposed to be hosting. I didn't think I'd be wanting to come back.
Well, that was- you're still broadcasting, chill.
Yeah, I know. It doesn't seem to want to stop. That's all.
Oh, so- so, you know, when I have a technical- technical glitch, I get scolded for it.
Yes, you do.
Okay, you're off now. Now, what happened?
You know, for some reason my laptop, it used to work great with Fedor about well back first the year.
I used it for the New Year's Eve episode and then an update.
It no longer wants to see my USB headset and everybody tells me I sound terrible on the analog headset.
So, I've got one of my old towers fired up to run mumble and the frontboards on the tower don't really work.
So, I've got an extender cable plugged into my USB so that I don't have to crouch right on down on top of the computer to be able to talk into the headset.
And the junction between the extender cable and the USB cable for the- for the headset's right down there around my feet.
And of course, you would not believe the tangle cables on my desk if you were here to see it.
So, I was kind of flippin' around the cable one way and another way subconsciously because it was kind of hung up to get some more space.
And I think I just jiggled that junction between the two USB cables and suddenly the audio went off.
And that's why I had to go reboot to get to the device back.
Well, I just wanted to say that while I scotted you, my computer must have had a pity on you and wanted to haywire on me.
Yeah, so now I won't even hear the whole show until I get, you know, I'd equip my recording and that's the other thing I should have done.
I should restart recording, but I am going to have to get the whole show from one of you guys who's recording to it so I can edit it.
The remaining four of us that are recording.
Right, well, now I'm glad I mentioned that, so otherwise we would have lost a chunk of the show.
Now someone would have started recording at the end and spliced the device together.
Well, that's kind of how the New Year's Eve after show came to being.
Poke said, oh, I've been up for, you know, for 18 hours, I'm going to bed and then I just hit record and caught that last bit.
So that's perfectly acceptable to catch the end.
I know a lot of shows that have been saved that way.
And for those of you listening, yes, you are.
You are now listening to the tilt's technical glitch that we're trying to fix in progress report.
Speaking of other shows, what are some shows that you guys have found just from listening to Hacker Public Radio?
Oh, yeah, I've just been catching up on that the last week too and they're just incredible.
I've been going through the shows that I've been introduced to by Ken's syndicated Thursday.
You know, Sunday morning, Lennox review, you know, because I've had more time to listen because when I've been to a lot of farm work recently, I just finished harvest.
And that's that's the main time is when I'm moving from one task to another.
I always forget put on my headphones and start listing the podcast and I get way behind.
But when I'm on the farm equipment, just kind of like your 64 on it on his mower.
And I'm there for hours on end. It makes it pretty quick to get caught up because that's what I do is put on headset and listen.
So, yeah, I mean, there's so many to mention. I don't want to slide anybody from the syndicated section.
And of course, you've heard me go on on this podcast.
Yeah, to definitely today with a tacky and for the technical information, all that is still still valid RFA.
A lot of that stuff might be a little dated, but those guys are just hilarious due parallel.
And the bland inquisitor who must have been a frequent guest because I've caught him on two, I've picked it random.
And of course, stank dog. Just go back and listen those guys.
I think I found, well, Sunday, Linux Sunday morning review, I found through HCR, I hadn't known about that.
But then also, like I got reminded of Kriven's like a paranoid shell mentioned.
And then I also got, oh, yeah, Paul.com, believe it or not, I'd never heard of that until I started listening to HPR.
I don't remember who or why that was mentioned, but I'm pretty sure I found out about that through your HPR.
Yeah, I always hear about that. Somebody mentioned security well.
And then somebody says, no, don't bother with that. Go listen to Paul.com instead.
Yeah, I listen to a few of Paul.com's and I don't know quite why I'm whether they just have the ones I happen to listen to,
but the ones I listen to, they spend all their time talking about how ship security now was and not actually doing anything else.
Yeah.
So stop listening to them because it's like, really, can we just, I mean, okay, I get you don't like it.
And, you know, I do listen to security now and yeah, the ads are annoying and sometimes wish they shut the hell up and talk about something else.
But, you know, I don't care about how wonderful you think the new Ford sink is and how it will record where you crashed and died, Leonardo Porto.
Oh, whatever it was anyway, but it was, it was just very, you know, I'd like to get some information from the show.
Oh, and another one I'm going to mention one that I haven't even listened to yet because I listen to HPR.
I've found Krivens and because I've found Krivens, I've, I've found that Kevin is just brilliant, brilliant in finding open source music to play on that show.
They usually do three, usually more rock and roll, but there are some other genres in there as well and just some great music that he picks out.
So, just, when I just yesterday, I set my downloader to get the entire library of TuxJam.
Of course, there's Kevin's podcast on unseen studios. So, I would encourage anybody who likes music to try that out too.
I always like plugging Krivens because last few episodes I've been joining in.
And Lord Drackenblut has just joined us in progress. Hello, Lord D.
Wow.
Well, I think you backed off because he saw Clot 2 trying to talk at the same time. Will, can you hear us, Lord D?
I can hear you fine, but I'm on Android clients, so hopefully there's not causing too many issues.
A little loud and a little loud. It sounds like you're doing a day of yates and driving down the road.
But we, why in fact, I am!
Hence the Android client, but we can hear you if a little loud. I don't know whether there's a setting to turn that down a bit.
Well, hopefully if I just hold the phone a little further away, it'll be a little better.
I was going to say, let's not encourage him to fiddle with his Android phone while he's driving.
Obviously, I'm at a stop sign when he is stopped and yeah, I'm not content too happy about the whole bit where you said I'm going to hold the phone away from me a bit.
Well, I just, I've found with a split clients of any nature on Android phones. It seems that it makes them like a lot more sensitive.
So I've got a headset plugged into my ear and the phone and holding the phone a little bit away.
So hopefully it'll take care of me spiking so a lot of people's ears.
I'm more worried about you spiking into something on the road, but we appreciate it.
Yeah, because I'm glad you stepped in, Lord, because I've made my own board a little attempt what I've found out from talking to you and stank over the past few months.
And some other folks attempting to explain the lineage in the history of hacker public radio and really probably best if I don't ask you to do a dissertation on the history of the network while you're driving.
But do you have any yet little background stories that would be interesting that about the origins of NREV and TWA tech and RFA that, you know, the untold stories sort of thing that we would that we wouldn't know about from actually listening to the podcast.
Well, like you said, RFA is actually a really good place to start.
And for people who may not know, that's Radio Free America spelled with the Greek spelled F-R-E-E-K as in free knowledge.
And they actually got their inspiration from hacker mind, if I remember right, it's been several years.
But that project started, dual parallel started RFA, and then out of RFA came a few shows, some of them still actually running that I'm aware of.
One that people may not even make the connection to is actually games and more entertainment radio and NREV radio were the two shows that kind of spawned off of that.
C4 got the inspiration to do game radio from RFA, and Stank was actually a guest on RFA along with a gentleman who went by the name Wintermute, and they spun off of there and started, Benrev is the start of things.
Okay, I'm glad you got that up because I spent yesterday listening some random RFA episodes that I'd pulled down, and on most of them Stank was a guest, but I didn't realize that he didn't start Benrev concurrently to RFA.
So that's interesting that R, that that's where Stank got his start as a guest on RFA.
And to feel a little bit more story with RFA and HBR, it jumps ahead a little bit, but this is kind of where it fills in at the same time.
Towards the end of the run of RFA, I don't remember if it was Rax who originally proposed the name, but the name for Hackelpop and Radio actually did spawn out of Radiofreak America.
And it was their idea of kind of an homage to National Public Radio, but serving more on tech and hacker views and cultures.
Am I the only one who 5150 is breaking up really bad on, or is it me having the issue?
No, it seems to be everyone. We already confirmed it through tech chat.
Okay. Well, another little piece of the puzzle that kind of needs filled in here is before Tawtech started, and that's today with the techie,
Drinks from the Infinonymicon computer club. It started another little project that was called PODVERT.
And only a few shows came out of that. There were Ninja Night School was one of the graduates of that program.
I had actually done a couple episodes through PODVERT at one time, and PODVERT, the idea was podcast fertilizer.
And if I remember right, it was kind of a joke on things like, Lord, you totally cut off, are you still there? Anybody got suggestions for PODVER?
Uh, not off the top of my head.
I think what 5150 was trying to say is that they went from Tawtech, hacker public radio also, because some of the publishers, I guess, felt that it was not very a very woman-friendly name, which is pretty true, I think.
Sorry about that, guys, where did I drop off?
POD fertilizer, you were talking about the name, and you cut off there, and cut off a game.
Can you guys hear me any better now, or am I still breaking up?
Sound good at the moment.
That podcast fertilizer, because a lot of shows were nothing more than organic fertilizer.
And so it was a place where people could come, create shows, test the waters out, or they kind of, you know, fully invested themselves in the idea.
Well, I think it's arresting, uh, Jay brought up, you know, back into it.
It's doing it again, basically.
And everyone dies on the mic at once.
Yes.
And I think we've mentioned it, but yeah, part of the reason that Tawtech changed its name to HBR had everything to do with.
There were some females who under the TWA Tech name were contributing, but there were more than who expressed an interest in the project that just refused to be involved because of the name.
Yeah, I mean, I'm a, you know, white guy in my, between the age of sort of 18 and 40 or whatever it is.
So, uh, but I just thought it was a best silly name, you know, making fun of the twit people, because hey, we're twit, we're twit, we're twit, sort of thing.
And it was, um, I never thought more about it than that, really.
Um, but I can see where some people could have fun with that.
And just a, and just kind of a weird side note, TWA T name.
There is a podcaster named Violet Blue, who leo Laporte managed to run its mouth about a one time, and she had joked about starting a show called Goet Tech to kind of go against his male oriented twit network.
That is kind of funny, but Leo Laporte does make some mistakes on air, like, like the certain Google chat messages that he shouldn't have released, but he just hadn't have in the background.
But, uh, any other questions, the background in history that I could try to fill in, just kind of from what I know of things?
Uh, at what point did you get started with network or D?
I actually had done, like I said, a couple of shows, a podvert, which you can find on audio.textbiles.com.
So I've kind of been around the whole thing since, you know, a podvert, uh, the inception of HPR for, um, a pretty little while I wasn't admin, but I was having problems in my life.
And so the, uh, mantle got passed over to a nigma, if I remember right.
Okay, I was kind of on the impression that a nigma had been involved, uh, from a very early point.
So I guess she, that's good to know you proceeded him.
Well, he was involved with the project from very, very early on.
It was just I was an admin.
I was the admin for him for a brief moment of time.
And for those listeners who haven't gone back and, or haven't been listening to HPR for a while.
Of course, now it's Ken Fallon, who is, uh, contributing most to the organization of hacker public radio and out there prodding all of us to get our episodes done and in.
But before him, you first mentioned before on this podcast, before Ken, that was kind of a nigma's job.
But, you know, it's been really interesting watching, uh, HPR start out as, you know, back in the TWA, you know, tech days as, you know, just a spin off.
Kind of a goofy spin off in all reality of the Twitter network.
And if you count the TWA tech episodes and the HPR episodes that, you know, we're kind of running neck and neck with a lot of the really old podcast for episodes counts.
One of the ones I'm aware of that has the most episodes is a show called Keith and the girl and they're at 1600 plus episodes.
So, you know, 300 episodes behind them, considering all the problems that had popped up along the way.
We're not too far behind some of the, uh, you know, founders of all this or the pioneers, I guess, would be a better term.
Of course, they might say that we're cheating because we're on a weekday release schedule rather than once a week, I think, when he was doing it.
Keith and the girl is a daily show.
They've only missed in their history about a week or two worth of days.
If you don't encounter, if you don't include their like holiday breaks, they take around Christmas.
Well, then I'm even more impressed with HPR that we can catch up with some of the original podcasts that are on a daily schedule.
And especially considering the fact of shows like Keith and the girl, anything on the Twitter network, there is not a consistent single person on all these shows.
The fact that the community comes out and supports this and drives it so much is really the incredible thing that, you know, it's something that started out as kind of a crank, you know, a prank on Leo Laporte has become something so big.
And that was a question that came to my mind and I don't know if or D might be able to answer it.
I don't think but the else would are we unique in that way in podcasting that this is a series that we anybody can come and contribute to.
You can come in and do one episode and never be heard from again or or like we're sort of unique that way in our open source community.
But just out there and I don't listen to too many podcasts outside that community, but is there anything else out there, anything like Hacker Public Radio?
I've looked, listen to you waiting in and out about 50 shows at any given time and I have never found anything similar to Hacker Public Radio.
And I'd like to take that opportunity to give a shout out to all the contributors, not not just ones in this show who represent first year, but through the entire history of 12 Tech and Hacker Public Radio.
That's what keeps the network going is everyone taking the time to contribute and send in their show.
So this is not just for the folks here in the room or the folks who are invited from the predecessor shows and for the first year of Hacker Public Radio.
This is a big congratulations to all of us for making it to this milestone.
I think it is a wonderful milestone and Lodi's having issues connecting it seems.
I mean, if you have 100 votes when this releases, sorry about that, any better?
Yes, yeah, that is.
Okay.
Well, if you look at it between TWA Tech and HDR, when this episode releases, we're at 1324 episodes.
So that's pretty impressive for people just contributing whenever they feel like or can.
Okay, yeah, that I've been saying 30 episodes of of TWA Tech all day.
And I know that had to be wrong because I've got to page open looking at contributors and there's more contributors than than that.
So it was even 100 episodes.
No, it was 300 episodes before it transitioned to HDR.
Okay, so I lost a zero entirely.
I was going back to your comment on the show 1000.
I should part of the fog in my brain, I guess.
So I apologize if the TWA Tech contributors listening felt slided and hearing me say 30 all afternoon instead of 300.
I doubt anyone feels slided.
Well, and just beating up other shows.
Go ahead 51 50.
Yes, sorry, but I was just going to plant.
Well, for all the folks from other podcasts who are listening and thanks, thanks for listening.
1324 is the mark you have to do that.
And while you're doing that, we're going to start working towards 2324.
We better get 2600.
I wouldn't nominate that set our next milestone at 2600 combined.
Oh, I was just thinking that would be great.
And you guys who are more into the exploit and defense against exploits research.
Well, I'm going to put on you guys instead of on me to come together on that episode.
Just one minute warning and you decide to play 2600 hertz tone.
During that episode, please be careful.
All you probably said in that.
Why? What would that blow up?
Your eardrums.
Well, couldn't that be said for anything of particularly that volume?
Just in my experience with an older show and it was called an Ethical Radio.
They had done an episode where they played the 2600 hertz tone between each little segment they did.
And they played it at the exact same volume level as they recorded themselves at.
And it just comes out far louder for some reason.
It's kind of a piercing resident frequency.
I think we are just releasing an episode of just that tone.
30 seconds of how it needs to be added.
How do you grade?
It's just fantastic.
I don't know if that wasn't anywhere near 2600.
I'm no good at whistling apetite.
Yeah, pitch perfect.
No.
Well, if you want to complete the gag, you'll have to insert the blue note in the middle.
Again, I'm not going to try and whistle that one either.
Not that I was whistling before anyway, but you know.
Okay.
We lost Lord D.
I'm not sure if he's going to be able to come.
He's coming back.
But I just wanted to pass around and see any other finishing or well.
Any other topics that we want to get?
I know.
I'm just here on the panel.
You know, if anyone wants to ask any questions they can.
I didn't think of anything specifically.
Call to any questions or thoughts?
No, neither a question nor thought.
One thing I did want to ask in this part can be brief one.
How has the recording hardware and software changed drastically since 2008?
Or did some of you guys that did it before?
I mean, audacity's been updated, but it's error version.
I've had doctrine play, which is kind of sort of the same.
Back in the old and olden days, was it more of a hassle to get a show recorded?
Did you have a clooge more things or no more about the equipment?
Or is it just about the same as it is today?
I think audio recording has been the same for the past 50 years, probably.
I don't think there's been a substantial change.
And even if there has been, there's that famous, famous example of that one guy who recorded an episode.
Maybe it was of Twa Tech, but he recorded it by plugging his headphones into his microphone jack
and he actually used his earphones as the microphone.
That was pretty brilliant.
So I don't know.
I think it's pretty easy to get an episode out there.
Yeah, and I remember that story now.
And I forget who it was who said they'd get that myself.
I mean, I've used, I haven't used anything quite that exotic, but I mean, I've recorded on lots of different things.
I think I've recorded on my Nokia in 800.
A Samsung fuse, maybe one of Twa ice.
Just a normal USB microphone.
A USB microphone headset, directly into the microphone of the laptop.
You know, it's just, I don't know, early on, I think, stankdog with bin rev.
And even his early HPR episodes, I think I remember one on the Nintendo DS modding cartridges or something like that homebrews.
Like the sound quality on his stuff was always just so marvelously bad and just so compressed.
And I've always really aimed to get that poor of quality of audio for all of my audio work.
I think he was doing 16 bit or something.
He always sounded like he was in a tunnel, which was really neat.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, I don't know how he did it, but it sounded horrible and great.
I think at that time, everybody had a hard time downloading big files.
So he kind of figured he probably had to do that.
I mean, I respect that totally. I think that's great.
Well, the only story I have like that is the episode 1000.
Like I said, I'm recording on this old computer and it's not performing very well since I rebuilt it.
Because it's the one that will recognize my USB headset.
And I tried several times in the crash to record just a little intro that I did for episode 1000.
So I moved back over to the laptop with the analog headset.
But I realized after the show was published when I did it that day, I never plugged in the plug for the boom mic on the headset.
So it must have picked it up from the built-in mic on the laptop itself.
And I had several comments that was the best audio I ever did.
I think that the microphones on laptops are hit or miss.
One kind of interesting or funny moment I can remember popping up from HDR.
I have to look a little bit of background.
But there's a guy who's apart of the ergonomic content here at Love News.
Good, a name, John Doc.
And last I knew he was still a listener as an HDR.
But when the episode with Jane Doc, Jane Howard, about
medical assault, open-source medical software.
And that she was looking for people.
The first thing I got on the home, I did was get on the home to John Doc and say,
and how kind of cool I thought it was to see that he is significant.
And the other head, you know, contributed to HDR and he just kind of fires back.
I don't know who she is.
Just some random woman who popped up and did an episode by the name of Jane Doc.
And Claudia, you were stuck.
Yeah, here. Sorry, I was going to invite you to continue your story and then I walked on you.
Well, that's okay. I think it's better to bounce off of what Lord Drakkenblit just was talking about.
I was going to say that I kind of really enjoy the one-off episodes actually.
I always feel like I want to hear more from that one random person who did that one random show
or those one or two random shows.
But at the same time, it's like it's really nice variety.
And that's what I value about HDR a lot, I think.
It is the fact that you get to kind of encounter different people every week or possibly every day.
And that's kind of fun.
You get to hear viewpoints and kind of thoughts on subjects that from people you never knew existed,
you would have never thought to ask them for their opinion.
And there is. It's in your pod catcher and you get to hear it and you get to hear about a completely different thing.
And that's just cool to me. I like that.
I really think that that has its own appeal.
I mean, sometimes a podcast has an appeal because you get to know the hosts.
You like a way that they talk to each other. You like their chemistry.
You feel comfortable with a certain host.
But HDR, if you're a little bit adventurous, you get to sample all kinds of different ideas.
And it's fun for that, I think.
Definitely one of the more interesting ones that I heard was a couple of Mexican guys.
I think one of them lived in California and one of them was teaching kids in Mexico.
And they were talking about how they didn't have doors on their school house in Mexico where he's helping these kids
and trying to get connectivity and how they're going to record a show next time because of that.
It's pretty interesting just hearing those guys talking what their problems were and how they solved them.
Those were actually the people who I was really actually thinking about when I said that.
Because yeah, I remember those two guys. I think what wasn't their show. They called themselves like,
I forget what they called themselves. It was pretty funny though.
I think I know, but I don't want to say it because I think if I'm wrong, I'd get in trouble.
But yeah, they were really funny. They were good.
And I think they had like two episodes maybe and then they were kind of gone.
But I mean, it was so good.
Yeah, I was on PC name to it too.
That's what I thought. Yeah, I think I do know what it is then.
But again, I'm not going to say it because if I'm wrong, I'm going to sound really bad.
But yeah, they were great.
And there are so many other people like them that just they come in and you're like,
oh, cool. Someone totally different and cool and funny.
And then you never hear from them again. And it's kind of sad because you're like,
but I wanted more. But on the other hand, that's kind of the beauty of it.
You know, I mean, that's life, right?
These passing ships and you get to meet people and you leave.
And it was beautiful for the moment and then it's gone.
So what about the homemade Hooch episode? Someone did.
The what?
There was a moonshine. It would be the word, I think.
Yeah, yeah.
When they're like, find a dead rat just toss his head inside it.
It'll give the bacteria a kickstart.
That was so funny. Oh my gosh.
It was horrible.
I don't think there was anything and just to clarify, you know,
don't try anything from that episode.
You will most likely catch something.
But it wasn't an amusing episode though.
Well, what's the mountain view?
Go ahead.
And some recent episodes you really have to look at.
It's just really eye-opening for a lot of people.
I'm sure it was similar to recent episodes.
Yeah, everything she does is great.
I love all of her stuff.
Yeah, she does some cool stuff.
And it's different as well.
It's not just a kind of, you know, tear shelter installed there
or do that sort of thing.
It's always a little, a little different little out there
and always very interesting.
Well, I was talking specifically for two episodes
where they were voicemails from her stay in a psych ward in the hospital.
If I've got the right turn.
Yeah, yeah.
Those were really powerful episodes.
Yeah, when she was talking about the one,
at least to that hang on.
I don't remember what to think, which one it was,
but at least to one of them recently.
And she was talking about, she had an interview with one guy there
and she was talking about having been diagnosed with this
and you're on that.
And I don't know.
Does anyone else just want to give her a big hug?
Yeah, I think everyone does.
I had a couple of emails with people like,
what could we do for her?
And it's like, I don't know.
What can you do?
Send messages to me.
It also has a shop.
No, it's just really...
Big hug, a giant pile of code in.
Just, you know, hope she keeps doing what she does.
She's one of, to me, she's one of my favorite contributor stage PR.
Always very interesting, very insightful, entertaining,
to say the least.
Given the episode, I think she'd appreciate some hardware to hack
and keep her mind busy.
And also a spare Raspberry Pi?
Yeah, really.
Exactly.
Not by me, sound like cheap, but Raspberry Pi is new there.
Those are so cool.
Yeah, I think so.
But it's just sort of, it's something that's not...
It's fairly cheap, you can get several of them in,
just like send them over there and not have to worry too much
if, you know, one got damaged on the way.
Actually, reference that episode to a friend of mine,
whose daughter had to be checked in.
And I think that helped them a bit.
I think we need a new slogan for HPR, Hack or Public Radio,
we're real people.
Yeah, really.
Well, it kind of floored me because I thought she was one of the more
together people on the network that the way she could explain the demo scene
and hacking the old David machines.
And, of course, I understand that the one has nothing to do with the other,
but her episodes were always some of the ones where I'm just sending,
well, I wish I could accomplish that.
Well, I mean, I think she's together.
She just happens to have a mental condition that is difficult to deal with,
but personally, I mean, she's fantastic.
In some ways, it's wonderful if a contributor is sick,
I have to wonder if her and people like her actually scare some people
sometimes just by, you know, accidentally intimidating with how just fantastic
these people are, and some people feel like what they have to contribute
is just not going to measure up.
And I would have to say you're just legally wrong with that if you're listening.
You know, I would actually love to pose a challenge out there to the HPRF's
audience if you haven't contributed at all.
This year contribute one episode.
And for me, myself personally, because so many things that go on wrong
for me side in the past, I'm going to actually set it both for myself
that before December 24th this year, I'm going to try to
compete in episodes.
I see in the chat that Clotu has to leave.
So before you do, Clotu, you want to tell folks where they can find you?
Sure.
The new world order.info online.
You can always find me in IRC as well.
IRC.frino.net in the channel's August planet or Slackware or a couple of others.
Jabber, not Clotu at Jabber.org.
That's about it.
Thanks for having me on.
Oh, thanks for coming.
And thank you for being able to hear a word you say.
Take it easy, Clotu.
Yeah.
How can you order a bottle if you can't hear you?
And there he goes.
Yeah.
And Jay Rulo mentioned in the chat the dial-in numbers.
So if you're going to meet Lord Dreckingwood's challenge and send in the show,
I said, if you need the FTP server information, send an email to Admin at
hackerpolicradio.org or pick up your phone and if you're in the US,
you can call 206-203-5729.
Or if you're in the UK, you can dial 203-432-5879 and just start talking.
What does that sound like it's missing a digital tool to the UK number?
Well, if you're in the UK, you wouldn't have to dial the number first.
I mean, like it's one here for the US.
I'm not familiar with what it is for the UK, but then I say 203-432.
Yeah, but in the UK that you have local numbers and then if you want to dial,
it's like in the US, you dial a one and then the number to go outside of your local area.
So if you want to start into state sort of thing, you hit a one to dial outside from your area.
In the UK, you hit a zero.
So that I'm just looking at that and that doesn't look like it's got enough numbers.
So it should be at least zero to if nothing else.
Okay, well, I think that's just a cultural convention because over here when it's a long distance number,
we assume the one.
Yeah, in the UK, some reason they always say it,
which if you've ever seen the IT crowd things, it's, you know, if the new number is 0800-911,
double about whatever continues for ages.
But yeah, we'll have to check that, but it's it would stop the zero.
And that that would be a point for folks outside either the United States or the United Kingdom.
Of course, if you still want to dial in on that number, international charges will apply,
even even over Skype at a much reduced rate as I understand,
but it would be called US number B1206, etc. in the UK number 0203.
And what's the, was it 444 plus 444 was the international dining code for the UK
and I can't remember the US one, is it just one?
Okay, I've made that assumption that you said it was zero inside the UK
that it would be zero to call a UK number from the outside.
Yeah, and as I understand it, if you're calling in the United States from outside the United States,
it's you just start with the one just like we would here.
No, it depends on the country.
In the UK, for example, if you want to do international calls at 00 from Australia,
it's something like 00114.
No, 0011, I think for international.
So when I was in Australia and I had to phone England, I had to do 001144
for 0011 to phone international.
And then 444, which is the international dining code for the UK.
And then even more confusing, you drop the initial zero on the phone number.
So it would then be 203 blah, blah, blah.
And you don't have the zero there.
So I think the short answer is you need to look it up for wherever you are in whichever country
because the rules just suck for this.
There's no standard.
Okay, obviously I've never tried attempted to make an international call.
That put me in a mind and it's completely non-sequitur of some of the old promotional materials
from when my grandfather owned a rural filling station.
And you look at him and say, well, wow, that's not enough numbers.
I think it was like two digits.
Yeah, it's just some of these things are weird.
Because each, we keep thinking of ourselves as a global community and a global network thing.
But each British telecom set up the stuff in the UK and then Barbella,
whoever it was in the US.
And so you have, however they decided to set it up, they did it.
And then they've tried to bolt it together so it sort of works internationally now.
So you can make phone calls from one to the other, but you still going on multiple different networks
and there are some more things.
But we need to, we need to ask someone from the UK or nearby who can dial the number and figure out
what number it is and how to do that.
Now, you know, that sounds like a podcast somebody could do.
Yeah, you can phone up one of the numbers and tell us how you dialed into it.
How about that? You just need to make it more than like five minutes long.
Well, that's definitely an idea we've been trying to encourage even more international participation
from sort of the areas, Asian, et cetera, that we don't normally hear from.
Well, on top of that, now I understand you can call Skype to Skype internationally, of course,
or any sit phone.
But if somebody is that I'm sure somebody out there maybe listen to have had that problem
of looking for the cheapest way to call home through an international phone system.
If somebody has little tweaks out there to either do a no-cost call to a plain old,
a pot's telephone service, I think that would be a great and very interesting podcast.
If somebody's got their trick for the cheapest way or free way to do it.
Well, of course, there's always things like mumble that you've got to start recording that.
So, I don't know how, if you could do something there or not.
Well, no, that's what I meant. Of course, we have various VoIP solutions,
but I'm talking about going from VoIP to a regular phone because a lot of places where they call home
they might not have the internet service, but they would have the phone.
Yeah, I do not know. I have been fortunate to be in places where they have got
at least semi-decent internet access.
Okay, I don't know. Somebody has something else.
I think we've come to the point where folks are probably going to need to get the
bed in Zook's case or get to their dinner or whatever they need to do.
It's 3.30 in the afternoon here.
Oh, I'm sorry. I thought, okay, I was thinking you were in Britain,
but you must be on this side of the pond.
Yes, I was born in the UK and lived there for many years, but I now live in Nevada.
So, yes, I am this side of the pond.
Oh, I should have remembered that.
I mean, it was obvious that Mrs. Zook wasn't from Europe.
I thought you were both over on the other side, but no, I should have remembered that.
Now what you mentioned, I knew that.
It's okay, it's a little confusing anyway, because you hear the accents and you make assumptions
and this goes back to the whole.
You don't know much about people unless they decide to tell you that unless I said,
oh, yeah, I'm in Nevada, you might figure out from the I spend too much time on the
internet or the hours in the UK, but unless I said that, you wouldn't know.
Well, and another reason we scheduled it like we did was so that Ken Fallon and Phoenix
could participate, unfortunately, and neither one of them was able to be here today with us.
And it kind of worked.
It's probably the perfect time of day for me, so that was the most important thing.
Yeah, I mean, you're going to find someone come make it because of the time that whenever you do it.
Well, I just want to thank everybody for participating.
We still have Jay Rulo.
I'm sorry, Jay Rulo and Will Jason and Mr. Mrs. Zook on a call and the paranoid shell
who chimed in a couple times, he's muted now, but I want to thank him as well.
And Eric Lorde, who came in and of course clawed too.
Did I forget anybody?
I was just trying to go through this myself and I think you got everyone.
Yes.
Okay, well, let's end up.
I go in around the room and telling everybody where they can find us if you want to and what projects.
You know, podcasts, if you're if you're involved in ones other than HPR, I'm 5150.
You can find my contact information on on my website.
It's the big red switch at DrupalGardons.com.
And my email address is 5150 at LinuxBasement.com.
And they were just kind enough to give me that address.
I like to see every time that I don't have an affiliation with LinuxBasement.
So you can't blame them for my activities.
And you can find me at zook.org.
That's Xray Oscar Kilo Echo.
You should have most of my contact information there.
You can email me at zooksorrywithgmail.com, Xray Oscar Kilo Echo Sierra Oscar Romeo Uniform,
at gmail.com.
That's also on the HPR website.
We've got zook forums at forums.zook.org.
Any of my myths and anything?
I don't think so.
All right, that's about it. That's how you can conduct me.
Okay, Jay Rulo, what working people find you?
Probably just the LinuxBasics forums.
Jay Rulo or Jonas R, I can't remember which.
I believe your Jonas R on the LinuxBasics forum.
But yeah, Jonas is our regular contributor on the LinuxBasics podcast.
So that's another one we need to listen to.
Might even hear me once in a while on there.
Now I will get on it.
Now see, you were supposed to be muted.
I changed my mind.
Geez.
Okay, paranoid shell.
Working people find you other than LinuxBasics.
Hey, paranoid shell at gmail.com.
No one really talks to me there as of yet.
So please email, but it might be a while if I get back to you.
Because I don't have many at the moment, I don't check as much.
Well, I'll send you one this evening so you'll have my address.
And we can get together on me picking up the complete recording
since my system dropped me in the middle.
And that leaves Will Jason working people catch up to you.
You can reach me at WillJason at gmail.com.
And it's wi-l-l-j-a-s-e-n.
And it's same handle for Twitter, Facebook, or whatever is current.
Okay.
Well, unless somebody has an additional comment to insert,
I think we're going to call it a show.
Let's just end episode 1000 and 24.
That's the part 10.
Right, I think if you're listening to the show,
you know the significance of 1024 in the digital world.
I should help.
Unless you're a hard drive manufacturer where you...
You count as a thousand.
Yes.
Well, see, that was probably the best decision they ever made
because it was only a slight variation when we were talking
a 30-meg hard drive.
But when you get into terabytes,
you're saving themselves,
that error compound at time and time and time over.
Otherwise known as, why does my one terabyte hard drive
only actually have 950 gig or something in it?
Right, well, this is 5150.
It's episode 1024 and the other significance of that
is I no longer have an excuse to not to not put up
my own individual HPR podcast.
I'll have to get on that, like I mentioned before,
towards the end of last year.
This whole thing came about.
I put something in the message board that,
hey, are we going to do anything for the 1000's episode?
It was actually Stank's idea.
Well, maybe we should do it on 1024.
And then we had some varying ideas
about what we wanted to do for the episode.
We came up with the call-in congratulations
for the 1000 in today's panel,
which I've really enjoyed participating in.
And I said, since I'm a relative newcomer to HPR,
and I want to thank everybody again,
who was here today.
Well, looking for a way to finish up,
and I should finish up by saying,
I'm sure everybody is tired of hearing me talk right now.
So thanks again, everybody,
and we're going to shoot for 20-600.
What's out of someone falling asleep
because they're bored of you talking?
Yeah, I do tend to go on,
especially when I don't have anything to say.
You and me both.
So you can eat everyone, say an aura.
I'll feed Stank.
Catch you on the flip side.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday on their free Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast,
then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the economical and computer cloud.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution
at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by lunar pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds,
go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis,
today's show is released under a creative comments,
attribution, share a line, lead us our license.
