Episode: 1681
Title: HPR1681: 2014-2015 New Year Show Part 8 of 8
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1681/hpr1681.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 07:41:24

---

This is HPR episode 1681 entitled New Year Show Part 8 on 8.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and in about 218 minutes long.
The summary is New Year Show Part 8 from 8.0.0 to 12.0.0.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Ah, there we go.
It is now 8.04 and I'm starting with a stream.
But that didn't cross.
Thank you very much.
Actually, you probably should have stopped it before I started talking about being a
cross-steer from a park and now we're in underwear, but if, you know, by all means, I don't
judge.
Ken does the stream crash after X time?
No, no, don't think so.
It just makes it easier for me to add to it.
Axel!
Yeah, you know what, Ken needs to hang out.
Like, you showed up, you know, like, let's record, let's hang out, no, come on, Ken.
Let's talk.
He was here earlier.
You talk.
No, you should not have heard me so talk and, like, let's rock.
Come on, Ken, just woke up, man, geez, give him a chance to shake the cobwebs out of
his head and have a cup of coffee.
How are you, Ken?
I'm flying, actually.
We had the first nights where the kids were normally, they'd go to bed and then we wake
them up, but they decided they wanted to stay up.
So that was really nice.
That was the, let's say, here.
Oh, yeah.
You have kids?
How old are you?
They are 10, well, 10 coming out of 11, 9 and 7.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, they're just two.
The doctors, the doctors, the kids always brought his kids on at midnight and they, you
know, at GMT.
And I can only think it's got to be because of you this time.
They were so, so right, they just had to go to bed and we never, ever get to stay up
this late.
So that's, that's the real reason.
So less or pretty, Rex, Ken, that's a good thing you didn't bring him on.
There you go.
So what have I missed?
We've been closer and closer to, not safe work label, but really compared to, compared
to previous years, we've been, we've been detained.
Do we have been talking about, we haven't talked about, we haven't talked about, we haven't
talking about, we haven't talking about, I think you were, I think you blacked out
for a bit.
Compared to Dev random, we were fairly tame for a few minutes.
We, we left the not safe for work designator behind several hours ago and we don't know
where the line is anymore.
Well, the line is, if it's of interest to have, fuck this right now, not safe for work
and it's at W, yeah, yeah, yeah, we can safely look out the shuttle window and see the line
that we crossed.
Yeah, I guess the other way though, I thought we were looking at this, you know, ISS from
the moon or something.
Well, I passed out the first time, you know, so I was talking about, you know, about how
good he was being and he was not going to say anything dirty.
So I, what he did after, you know, and I was gone for, got me two hours and came back
and I was going to go to sleep and no, I didn't want, you know, T, TJ and Pokey and all
that to the fine end of the show.
So I just back in 51, 50, I do want to point out that your story is fantastic because you
started out by saying, when I passed out the first time and whenever anyone starts out
with that story, that's great.
I passed out the first time and follow that.
It's great.
After that.
Oh, good, good Lord.
In previous years, I passed out two or three times during the show and come back.
I, I, I mean, I, I reference 330 who was in, you know, was, was in the, in the chat
least, I think he was in the, uh, uh, uh, recently in the mumble, but last year, it was
like, well, usually I go over and walk across the driveway and, uh, see a movie with my
buddy, you know, you know, and now I'm in town, run music, great actor, you know, so 10
mile drive.
So it's like, you know, no, I'm not going to, I'm not, I'm not home with Eddie.
I'm not going to come over and see a movie this year and get drunk and then try to drive
home.
So, you know, we spoke about this 50 driving and drinking.
We don't do this.
I did not.
I did not.
Very good.
One hand on the penis, one hand on the wheel.
I mean, I, I went home to do work on the farm and I came back and then I started drinking
soul.
You know, very good.
I'm going to go get some coffee, speaking of drinking, talk to them.
I can't.
See you again.
In the normal year, I'm gone and, you know, for a few hours and evening and I come back
and then I snuckered and I passed out and like, last year I came back, you know, I think
I woke up about six o'clock in the morning and was on for a couple hours and, yeah, I was
messed up and, uh, Ken, Ken will tell you he was back on my call and at 3.30 I heard
you, you know, it would, uh, uh, uh, in the screen, it, you know, uh, 3.30 was talking
to Ken, found about 10 o'clock to the next morning and said, yeah, 51.50 in here about
8 o'clock in the morning and he was drunk as a scunk.
Like now.
I am not, no, no, this is, this is not, this here is not a patch on how screwed up I was
because, you know, I got, I got up at 6 o'clock and started drinking again.
So no, I, I am, I don't know where near that.
We have a word for that in the Northeast.
We call that alcoholism.
Well, I should certainly have so.
I would get, there was a reason I keep buying all this alcohol or consumerism, you know,
we go either way.
You know, you know, Pokey, you got the word alcohol, okay, I'm not at all afraid of
saying that.
I, you know, I, I, I would like to think I'm an expert in something.
You know what, 51.50, I think you and I are going to be, uh, great friends.
Well, as long as, as long as you don't give me crap for wearing skirts, I think, uh, I
don't care if you're wearing a skirt, you know, you're, you've got a skirt, I've got
a mouth.
Let's rock and roll.
Look, you can wear a skirt, just don't call it a pocket dungeon.
Let's roll the dice, baby, let's see if it's a skirt or a fucking kill.
Tell you the long she don't call it a hot pocket bag wall.
You know, if it wasn't already, uh, copyrighted, that'd be my million dollar idea.
Hot pocket.
Well, as many as you've consumed shouldn't you shouldn't you have like a, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,
a lifetime security in that?
Dude, I cannot eat those things.
They they, uh, I messed my stomach.
I was up and terrible.
Oh, they burn my mouth.
Oh, you know what, dude?
I'll beat you guys on the hot pocket thing.
I have subsisted on AM, PM food, archeo food for like the last year.
I have not shit right for the past year, so anyone that's had that similar experience by all means kick in.
Are they burning something down over at your place?
Hmm, well, something's burning down in my freaking colon, yeah?
No, it's not working down there.
Why in the background?
Oh, no, actually the girlfriend's watching a Jersey Shore shit, so that might explain it.
You have a girlfriend?
Yeah, sorry.
Oh, yeah, I know.
Yeah, okay.
Yes, he did.
No, that would be the best way.
You know, you see, that would not be my strategy.
The girlfriend is next to me and saying, yeah, sucks to have a girlfriend.
No, she's in the little room.
It's fine.
At least I think she is.
I don't know where the fuck she's at.
Well, she's talking like that.
I know where she'll be packing her shit and leaving.
Or packing your shit and making believe, uh, yeah.
Still a far greater statement like that.
I would swivel my head around.
Nah, you know, good sense of humor and everything.
I hope so, actually.
Holy shit.
Oh, yeah, that's what Pegwall and 330 say, but they're living separately.
How's she doing?
She's single?
Oh, I mean, I mean, no, no, no, it's okay.
It's so hard.
Sorry.
He stopped putting out.
So I had to move.
And now you have ceiling spikes.
It's not one thing.
It's another.
How's the, uh, the frozen pipes this year, Pegwall?
You doing a little better that way?
Yeah, the pipes are good so far and so's the furnace.
So, uh, I'm hoping they hold out.
In other words, Pegwall's keeping the fires burning.
Yeah, she's there.
And they hold out for you, man.
Yeah, we're talking frozen.
You got to start singing the song.
Let's have no, uh, you know, busted pipes in the kitchen this year.
Well, I've been singing a song about the crazy late steals a strawberry.
Fuck, are you high?
What?
Uh, don't you have a crazy late comes over and steal your strawberries?
Yeah, she also yells at squirrels.
And, uh, actually, she did do something new recently.
She, uh, she ever so nicely and politely had some people come over
and like remove some plants in my yard.
She didn't like the look of.
And what of them happen to be a peach tree?
So now I'm deprived of strawberries and peaches.
I'm going to die from like scurvy or something.
You have a crazy lady that comes and steals strawberries.
And praise apparently, man, I think.
Yeah, so I stole my peach tree.
I would be kind of upset in terms of guns in this process.
No, it wasn't in December.
It's actually like closer to fall.
But it like the peach tree wasn't really big enough to get anything good off of.
Is one of those just kind of stare at and go, you know, a couple of years.
That boy's going to be awesome.
So over too, don't forget.
Pig wool is legally sexy.
He can't actually hit her with a gun.
He can if she gets close enough.
He can swing that thing around.
Yeah, you know, pictures like he can.
I think you can probably hit that for just your mass with fire arm.
Until the country has the angels go to use the peaches.
That's enough time.
Copyright.
You're going to get a suit.
And Pig wool has to use a scope just to see the end of his barrel.
Oh, come on.
I played like a freaking five seconds.
So come on.
Is that like a euphidism?
Have you seen his camera?
It's got a scope on it.
I got to use a scope to see the end of mine, too.
But I don't know if we're talking about the same thing.
You can say what you want, Lordy, but at least I'm not a grown man wearing a skirt.
Hey, hey, hey, I'm down with that.
Now, I had this conversation with one of my friends who's a volunteer firefighter and came out to the fire.
And of course, my printer plus rounds of Russian ammunition all fired off.
And I had it in the attic.
You know, if I've been thinking I would have put in the bait.
But it was all pop, pop, pop, pop.
But thanksgiving, I talked to my friends in the fire department.
It says it's not that.
It's, you know, the cans of starting fluid in the pickups, you know,
because they'll take off and fly the ether.
And I said, yeah, my paper, you know, my paper catches all the fire.
You got to, you got to get the one in the seat.
But I left there, you got to get the one behind the seat.
You got to go under the seat.
You know, it's, it is like your pick can burn to the ground, dude.
How much is your retainer, man?
Retainer.
Your retainer for your frickin' attorney.
We don't have those out here.
Son of a bitch.
Fuckin' I hate California.
Now, if you need a retainer, they just haul your grass off to jail.
Like, we need, we actually need that shit out here.
If you're doing anything that might even be considered on the fence,
you need a retainer.
Like I said, the sliders.
It, you know, it, it, it, it, it's a dichotomy.
You know, you, you either got to have enough lawyers or enough guns.
Yeah, that's the show I was trying to think of earlier to mention.
Sliders?
Yeah.
Good call.
Okay, well, it's only six hours later.
Yeah, you know, actually remember that.
Yeah, let's go back to the show notes.
It'll only take you five minutes and carpal tunnel syndrome.
So, you know, is that sliders, sliders like this slimy hammer if you get?
Oh, Jesus.
Now we're, now we're full on Jeopardy here.
Okay.
Okay.
I'm trying to think of a Jeopardy question.
We'll see what's gonna happen.
We'll see if we can have questions.
They have answers.
Oh, Goddamn kudos.
Okay.
All our murder sliders is that the Jeffrey O'Connell or the main character in that.
And he was on a show and he's like, no, you, you, you, you got to use your,
your, your popularity as much tail as you can while you can.
Okay, so we got your wire count.
That's cool.
All right.
So, all right, all right.
Okay.
Here's the Jeopardy question.
Everyone want to chime in here.
This is the artist that's sung in Rocky IV.
Live in America.
Go.
I just had that song playing in my head.
I'm no interested in who the hell did it.
But, but, but you know the song.
That's good.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
I, I, I hear who's changing brown.
Oh, uh, the ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding.
Come on.
Get the, yeah.
It James Brown.
Cape comes out.
Apollo Krieg gets killed.
Rocky IV.
Awesome.
Yeah.
Somebody play that because I can't, I, I want to listen to it, but I can't pipe it through
because I don't have the auto-capal setup.
So, so I'm going to play that.
You don't have the mission to play it either.
Yeah.
You're going to get sued just for YouTube if you want to hear it.
Oh, Jesus Christ.
I freaking hate legality.
So do we.
That's why we don't mess with it.
Well, you're the guy with the retainer.
I'm a retainer, but not over that shit.
retainer in case you get sued for releasing patient information.
Not copyright stuffed out.
See, everybody who's listening to this is already playing that song in their head.
Yeah, no.
So, really, everyone always knows it.
Okay, who wants to say it?
I was saying it live in their spare adventure.
The soul for you.
You'll be free hackers.
You'll be free.
You know, I heard a dog giving birth one time that sounded just like that.
Lost twice.
That was me.
That's twice a day you've made me can do that.
You know how I get paid to sing?
Well, technically, I got paid not to sing.
Get paid to take it up the ass.
Oh, sorry.
I didn't mean to say that.
Oh, it's all fair.
No, no.
I can't sing my dad.
I can't sing.
You know, he used to get paid singing like pupils and stuff.
No, shit, really?
Wow.
Yeah, my mom used to get paid to sing at funerals.
She'd just hang out at the funeral home, hoping somebody was dead, and then go sing for her.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Far wherever you are.
I'm sorry.
I don't know that song.
Yeah.
That felt fucking flat.
That was me drinking and not paying attention.
So what do I do?
I cannot carry two and five gallon bucket, but my dad could.
And I expect, again, he could probably do pretty good if I did not accompany him, but I am too enthusiastic.
I have been known to sing from 10 to 10 this year.
Actually, that's the last line in my resume.
Could you have been known to sing?
Yeah, that way when they complete into HR, I can just refer to that line of the document.
You guys probably don't know this, but I'm a professional wasler.
Do you go wasling?
Yeah, no, I need to hear this.
If you're a professional wasler, no, you have to.
Look, the police said it was public exposure, but I say it's professional wasling.
There's police to say professional exposure in pedophilia.
I don't give a crap.
I want to hear what you have to say right now.
Let's sing it.
If you're that good, or you're a professional wasler, I need to hear it.
Look, what I'm getting at is I'm an alcoholic and I pee on people's trees.
And I want and I want to hear it.
Meanwhile, I'm googling what wasler is.
No, I thought alcoholics for people who went to meetings.
Pegel, I can't see you finding the door to go to a meeting.
What was that wasling?
You sing carols and you go pee on people's trees.
It was an old belief that doing so brought other people good luck.
And people would pay you in beer and food to continue doing it for everybody.
Except the being on trees part that he just made up this minute.
How do you spell wasler?
We're in Sun here.
We come a wasle.
She, oh, G-O-O-G-L-E.
Yeah, we got that.
Yeah, but K-J, you're not supposed to break into people's houses and pee on their trees.
But it's cold outside.
All right, from the urban to baby.
It's additional f-sign and carols door to door.
An ancient tradition that exists of going to door to door for Christmas.
Or wasle.
If you can't provide wasle for humble tattered minstrels,
you've got to turn over your credit cards individually.
Or option three, a refreshing, great tasting beverage that comes in cans.
Enjoy the great taste of wasle in cans.
Does it mention can peeing on people's trees?
There's a distinct lack of that at the moment.
But no doubt somebody is busy editing it as we speak.
Well, I think somebody should, you know,
attach that to, you know, drinking from a can somehow.
I think we all need to sing something.
Yeah, we could do some karaoke.
Who can, I don't want to, like, do audio cable piping through.
Can we do any way you want it?
I don't care.
Come on.
No, we can't do something.
We can't do that.
But we, uh, we can do, uh,
oh my god.
No, I was going to say we should do the hacker song.
We can do that at the end.
Wasle, according to the Oxford dictionaries,
is a spiced ale or mold wine drunk during celebrations
for the 12th night and Christmas Eve.
A mighty bowl of wasle in which the apples were hissing and bubbling.
So that's from the Oxford dictionaries.com.
So TJ, are your apples hissing and bubbling?
I'm not going to lie.
If, uh, if there's like a hot alcoholic drink with like apples and stuff in it,
that sounds pretty fantastic.
Yeah, fair enough.
I'm going to, uh, go serve us the children.
And then I'll probably bring them out here.
So if you could take this from whatever to wherever that will be super.
So we're ever, we're ever.
We're ever.
We're ever.
No, no, no.
If you guys, if you guys screw up in front of kids,
I'm kicking out of the room.
No, no, no.
No, no, no.
Poke, Poke, calm down.
No one's doing that.
That's why I got the word.
What we wanted to do is actually what I kind of want to hear
is Ken has that great voice here.
I kind of want to hear.
Yeah, what kind of what hear Christmas tale from Ken?
Yeah, just just backing up Pokey there.
He's not the only one who can kick people out.
Then he's not the only one with kids.
Yeah, God, God, I'm here.
They're 15.
So, uh, yeah, no.
But I kind of want to hear Ken kind of do the, uh, you know.
Although just on a side note, we're not kicking anyone out.
Cause, uh, this is quite clear.
We don't moderate people.
Yeah.
We do have, you know, consideration.
Consideration.
Yeah.
Not to bring my children into a room where I'm not.
It's my responsibility as a parent.
Yeah.
So, uh,
It's not going to be an issue, guys.
I, but I have no doubt that you will all behave
when they're coming on.
Cause, um, if, uh, if I felt that you were going to go
to respect that, I wouldn't bring them on in the first place.
And that's my, uh, the honest is on me to ensure that that doesn't happen.
Yeah.
Yeah.
My head's off to Ken for being, you know,
a parent in the modern age who is willing to take
responsibility for such things instead of expecting, uh,
I don't know, everyone else to have that responsibility for them.
Well, actually, what I do is I, um, we have this thing where,
I think I probably told you this before, uh, where they, uh,
have to learn to curse properly.
So, um, it's, they're allowed to use certain words in the house, certain words
of them.
But, you know, they have to get the pronunciation.
Blogger.
Is that as bugger one of the words?
No, I don't use bugger myself.
Booger, bugger.
Cuts at it.
Booger.
Are you trying to tell me that I enjoy analogue?
And, of course, are you saying that?
It's too, uh, it's too difficult for me to enunciate.
I think if you're going to curse, you should not have to worry about,
you shouldn't be that concerned about your enunciation.
No, no, correct.
So, uh, what words do you have?
Maybe the advanced course.
Um, uh, I don't know.
What annoys me on the train, actually, is when teenagers are saying,
you know, fluke it.
You fluke it?
You fluke?
Oh, no, it's...
Fuckin'.
It's not fluke.
So.
Thank you.
It's not a double-o.
Come on.
What can you never version know of?
Did you say, I heard you say, what is it?
A sec.
A sec, yes.
A sec, yes.
Facking.
Facking.
Facking.
It comes from, uh, father Ted.
So, that's why I say a sec.
Quite a lot of it.
It's a good, like, uh, the Frack word on, um,
Um, I'll call you later, but I'm sorry, I'd like to get it.
I actually really respect Ken on this moment because the, you know, everyone wants to
say about, oh, we can't say this word that word.
Ken's concerned about like, look, you're mispronouncing this curse word.
Like stop it.
Like, this is how you say the F word, Ken's how you say the F word.
The kids on the train get very embarrassed when I make them repeat it over and over again
and tell them that they have to write it out ten times.
Oh, that is adorable.
Ken, you'll be interested.
No, I've gone from being way too low and now they tell me to wrap my microphone around
the back of my head.
No, I think they're, I think everything's just fine.
Everything's just fine.
Uh, 50, just as a buy the buy, I must say, how, uh, how impressed I am that you were
able to carry, you guys were able to carry the first few hours of the show.
So well done to.
Apparently you haven't listened to the first few hours of the show.
Well, he has done a hell of a job, kudos to 50.
Well, generally, I'd also like to give a big shout out to Kevin Whisher at this point
as well for all the support that he's given all of that.
Well, he's in the channel.
I don't know why, uh, well, he's muted while he's recording.
Okay, he's part of the bed.
He's high.
He's annoying me because I turned off a stream at the beginning.
There's now an official feud between our two families.
Well, gentlemen, I'll catch you all a little later on.
Check, take care, Lord.
Yeah, good, good talk to you, Lord.
Hope that you're going to be better than the last one.
Oh, hell yeah.
Yep, thanks, everyone.
Take it sleazy.
Yeah, man, it's on top of your load, dragon blue.
Happy New Year.
Yeah, you know, keep trucking because the next, you know, the next year is going to be good.
If you're in it, I had her own got to hate that guy.
No, actually, I don't.
I have no idea who he is, but I just wanted to say that when someone leaves.
Lord, he seems like a great guy.
It's the one that's going to be like, I got to hate that guy.
No, you know, he's like an original podcaster.
That's the one guy you do not want to be.
You know, making jokes about now screw it.
It doesn't matter.
If it's if he's a, if he's an original podcaster, he could take a joke on the, like, oh, God, he left.
Okay.
Now we're cracking jokes.
It's fine.
He seems like a great guy here.
Okay.
I'm going to get a coffee refill back in a moment.
Right.
I agree with you all.
I, I, I mean, Dr.
Sus, if it was not for the D and some guys like him, you would not be talking on this channel now.
I appreciate that man.
And I have definite respect there.
Uh, I'm trying to hit up some different, uh, I've actually got my own mumbles stuff going on,
trying to set up a podcast my own, but, you know, and you know how that goes.
It's all about needing talent and, uh, you know, you guys kick ass.
So it's why I'm here.
Well, I mean, the great thing while we're talking about about a PR is, you know, you, you can do a podcast,
but you don't have the pressure to do one every, every single week.
You're not paying for hosting.
Well, I, I mean, it's if people want to go out and say, yeah, I want to do my own thing.
I want to do a podcast.
I want to, uh, you know, uh, build followers, whatever.
If you can do that more, you know, way more power to you, but, you know, this, this,
this is just the excellent thing about PR.
You know, it, well, you know, in a way, it's kind of, uh, one of the, one of those things,
you know, they start a small business in a cubicle or, or, or, or, uh, whatever, you know,
it's kind of like that for podcasters.
And if you, you know, if you want to expand beyond that and do your own podcasts, it's great.
Right.
Incubator.
That's one thing.
Incubator, you know, for businesses, uh, you know, and usually you want to say there are a couple of
years, but, you know, what, uh, with HPR, you know, if you want, you know, if you want to get
your voice out there, but you don't want to just say, oh, I'm going to throw it up there and do
my hosting and hope somebody listens to me.
You know, H, HPR is just the excellent, uh, uh, way to do it.
And I, I would not, but without HPR would not be on other podcasts that I've been, uh,
invited to, you know, the, the, uh, the first place, uh, people heard me what,
as part of a group would, would be the, uh, you know, Hacker Public Radio, the community news
that we do a month.
And, uh, well, you know, uh, a book you'd tell me I'm right, right or wrong, you know, I'm certain
that was why I got invited to Debra, and I was poking, poking was all of me with it,
on those with me and, you know, heard me on there and said, yeah, 50s ago, we could, we could
probably use. So that was that, you know, Debra and I was the, uh, first, more than one host,
uh, well, other community news, podcasts that I was on, and that led to other things like, uh,
those channels, KPO, uh, Colonel Panic, all cast, and, uh, you know, I, I kind of grabbed
an opportunity, uh, you know, P-64. We have an adp, I don't think this, but, uh, P-64 said,
oh man, we don't, we don't have any host, anybody want to jump on. And I took as an opportunity,
it's, you know, and I had been providing stories to, uh, for a while, uh, to Colonel Panic.
So it wasn't like I jumped on, they didn't know who that guy was, but, uh, you know, I, I took
that as an invitation, uh, and proactively and jumped on, and, you know, I'm still on that, uh,
podcast, and I, you know, I was hanging there, hanging around in, uh, Linux basics, and,
you know, and other, uh, uh, R-C channels, and people started to get together and say, yeah,
you know, Linux base is kind of done, we need to do it, you know, we need to re-integrate,
you know, start another podcast, and I said I wound up on, uh, uh, Linux lookcast, and,
and this is kind of a introduction, you know, I need to come up with a more formal idea,
we are going to have, in March, a, uh, a, uh, Kansas, uh, Linux Fest.
Oh, no, no. And I, you know, I do want to do a paper, and it's going to be like, how do you get
your sorry ass on a podcast? And, and so, you know, so we got the title, right? How do you get your
sorry ass on a podcast? I mean, that, that's pretty damn good. I gotta say that, that's like a book,
white paper, we're talking, that, that's good. Pretty, pretty much, I mean, they put that stuff
for papers, but I think, you know, and I, I procrastinate, I need to do something, but, uh,
yeah, I'm, you know, and I'm certainly going to run up there in a few days, and, uh, the conference.
All right, folks, I'm gonna head out and get some sleep. Take care, take care, Shacer, man.
See you, Sandy. Happy New Year, Sam, Shacer. Have a good night, man.
You two, guys, take care. Well, this year has certainly been, uh, deferred, I mean, uh,
early this morning, I was, you know, hoping for participation, because kind of like, you know,
it's only two, well, there's only two people in their room talking, it was like, it's kind of hard
to keep stuff going, it's like, man, I can't step away, because then there'll be dead air, and we've got
three people going, and then, yeah, about mid-morning boom, it took off, and it's, it's like the, uh,
typical New Year's podcast you can't get a word in edgewise.
Well, yeah, well, you're alive right now, man. You're hitting it up here, and, uh, well,
grand, everyone else has, uh, hit up New Year's, except fricking Hawaii, but, uh, you're
live to everyone right now. Well, you got to remember, we hit the international date line, and there's,
you know, there's places on the other side, but, uh, that's still, you know, there are places to jump,
you know, kind of jump to four forever, you know, on the other side, and there's people on this side,
no, we won't be the last, uh, uh, I say, I say, I say, you know what, we got, I'm on the Pacific,
uh, yeah, I got, you know, what is it? 17 minutes left? I should probably go on webcam here,
and we say, yeah, you know what, if you're around in 17 minutes for your New Year, wherever you're
at, uh, I'm taking my shirt off. I'm a guy, I'm an attractive, but let's rock and roll.
I'm confused, you mean you're not naked now? From the waist down, but that's, you know, you can't see it.
That's, you know, that's, that's not the most confidence building thing that you could say.
Oh, I make it from the waist down, but you can't see it. Okay, well, I'm waked, I, uh, waked, oh,
Jesus Christ. Okay, I'm, I'm naked from the shaft up. How about that?
That could work, you know, you, you got to understand the group you're in, uh, you know, like
TJ, he is from pants since 1985. No, I'm allergic. Well, well, to be fair, I mean 1985 was a bad year
for pants. So we're all, we all understand that. We're probably not making
very confident that he can bring his kids on. Oh, shoot. Yeah, I forgot he was going to come on
here. Dang it. Oops. Can if you're listening, we, we, we, we promised to be good, but we can't
guarantee a very wide window. Uh, I can do everything I can and I promise I'm not going to say anything.
Come on, Ken. I can say I won't say anything. Just don't have a look at the bite. My name. That's
all I ask. Probably, Ken's kids have been listening and he's got a peel off the ceiling right now.
Oh, fuck it then. His kids are going, they're not cursing right. Fook it. How many people can say
Kant the right proper way? Like I said, Kant, it sounds like it's dirty. If it's English, it sounds like
like Aristotle, it's like, oh, you can't. This is inappropriate. You're probably not reinforcing
kids, uh, resolved to bring his kids on right now. No, I know I'm not, but he wasn't showing it up
beforehand. So I kind of figured he wasn't paying attention. So TJ, what is, uh, 330 Steve,
you know, I've seen even the IRC and I haven't heard him, uh, this year, I guess, I guess he's got
a crappy band with. Yeah, the internet at his house is not the most solid.
Well, it's too bad because somebody has to be a check for me when I get, you know,
complete out a hand later this morning. Where is he? Is he in the US? Is he in, like, where is he?
He is in the worst possible town in America. Oh, uh, damn it. St. Louis, I knew it. Nope. Boston.
No, me and him live in the same town. Like, I actually met the guy when I started college,
and that's how we became friends. What are the odds of that? Okay, no, okay, give me, okay, no,
I can't give you a reason. Where are you at? Use your words. We both live in Indiana.
Indianapolis is the city. So I'm guessing that's not where you're at. No. So Midwest, Indianapolis,
or Indiana. Oh, you know what? That's all your city. I know. Where are you at?
I gave a nice clue earlier about the high school that Jim Jones went to. Oh, yeah, Jonesville.
Yeah, that's a great city. No, we both live in Richmond. There is a population of, like,
almost 40,000 people. So when you leave, they'd like to change like the brick and signs.
It's 39,000, 939, because you left when you got vacation. There's just one sad old little
shriveled up man going dang it lost another. No, only 20,000 have their teeth left. Oh,
I didn't even go there. That wasn't me. That was like a meth joke. I'm sorry. Oh, thank you.
See, you say thank you for that. That was the meth joke. Yeah, all I thought it was,
why because they're all old or the teeth have fallen out or the bad food. Okay.
Thank you for explaining the joke. No, it wasn't a meth joke. It was a meth joke in bread joke. It was
it was a lot of America joke wrapped into one. Don't don't be started on bread jokes. So
Oh, yeah, and Ken, you know, would probably reject me even saying anything like that. So he's
going to a good good part of your. You'll insult his delicate Welsh sensibilities.
Exactly. Did you? Okay. Oh, okay. Now I do have to ask this question.
Okay. So it's not really Welsh. Okay. Now, okay. We'll then all back off. There we go.
I mean, the man's name is foul. It's not hard to, you know, I'm sorry, Ken,
but you know, that that pretty much is a giveaway to nationality.
Seriously? Yeah. We automatically guess your freaking Indian, Eastern Indian. Like that's,
that's your name. Welsh is dot on the forehead Indian. Yeah, you and Fab. How are you? Yeah. Exactly.
I'm sorry. If I'm not right, but I, you know, if somebody says foul and, you know, I would,
I would immediately flash Irish. If someone says foul and I inherently not funny and everyone else
in this channel should think the same thing. Yeah. And, you know, my name should be without the
English prescriptions. My name should be MacGregor. And, you know, from that, anybody
could be able to pick out nationality. How did you guess MacGregor from 50?
Like, you might be the only one, you know, around here it hasn't crocked my
uh, real name recently or, you know, I, you know, if the NSA wanted to come and find me,
I'm certain they, they, they could have done it without any help.
But the real name is Greer, which is a sect of MacGregor clan.
What's your first name, Bob? Don. Don. Your first name is Don.
Yeah, I, you know, you know, I guess, I think that's accident, but, uh, you, you probably couldn't get
more, uh, Celtic. To the truth, to the truth. Oh, this is freaking me out, it's 50.
You'll always be 50 to me, it'll be at one. And now having totally added myself to the NSA,
okay. Just let me add that to the show notes.
No, are we really? No, no, no, okay, are we recording this?
Yeah, it's going out in the lunch. Oh, bitch. Oh, you gotta be kidding me.
What do you think all the dots are for?
Well, what do you think if you hover over the channel that says, warning, this is all released
under Creative Commons license. So I wanted to go on record. Um, this is Dr. Public Radio, bud.
It's hacker public radio. So I got to give a nice, uh, public announcement here.
This is Dr. Susaporn. We're going to have a nice conversation here.
Um, there's been some jokes made. We've, we've had some good times. We've made pedophilia jokes.
We've made beast reality jokes, but they're all jokes. The catch is Dr. Susaporn is not behind any of
them. We don't, I don't believe in that. Now, everyone else in the channel, everyone else in
HPR, I don't know what they stand behind. They, they, they, they believe in beast reality.
I don't like your announcements at all. Yeah, well, you know, like this, this is why I did
a conception when you, you, you were, you were bagging on, like I said, if it were not for the
bloody English, my name would be MacGregor. But if you do not know the history of the English
clan twice in Scottish history, the English came around. So these MacGregors are making so much
trouble. They are going to make it illegal for them to call themselves MacGregor. And anybody
who goes by the name of Gregor, we are going to hang. That's why my name, that's why my name is
the history of the world. MacGregor is paramount for violence. What we do is we take
axes and we execute people. Now, we don't screw around. We're completely, violently,
brutally honest. And we just shopped people's heads off. Thank you.
Oh, today, this week in horror, I don't just see support.
Actually, he's not typically wrong. No, I did. There were some text man that, you know,
with Gregor's heads back.
I kind of want to do some, if we can do some like public, I need to do some like public radio
announcements here. We can do some like, you know, the more you know announcements, like, hey,
look, you might get your head chopped off. Thank you. Goodbye.
And, you know, the moral enemies of the MacGregors were the campers because the British came in
and they, you know, camels, I think there were some wringling. They said, you know, all these
plates and the Gregors had, they said, no, the British crown said, we're going to give them to the
camels. Oh, buddy. I think that makes us don't even start with the camels. This goes down a bad
path. I mean, anytime you want to bring up hums. So, you know, I'm related to a lot of camels.
I'm a good soup and, you know, and poor Glenn, you know, with his mind all messed up, that, you
know, moral enemies. So, TJ, you're a camel. I'm not like how you send that around. That was good.
That was like out of nowhere. So, son of a bitch, you're a camel. Okay, cool.
Well, I'm not, but my cousins are. Well, you know, long as they don't pull a clay
bore on me, you know, we can get along. Well, I'm going to smoke a camel. So, guys, I'll be back soon.
Give up smoking. I've done an episode that you'll find it on HPR.
Okay, please don't stop smoking. That's, oh, no way. Oh, it can't. Are you the one talking
with your kids there? No, I'm talking to you directly smoking with that and you will die.
If you die, then we have one less hacker in the world.
Okay, but you spoke before, right? Oh, yes. So, we're not faulting someone based on, like,
I enjoy it, right? We're not, we're not going like on a, I don't understand it, correct?
They, there will be a day, probably, where, you know, I'm in the doctor's office and he goes,
Ken, I've got some bad news. You're terminally ill. Just one moment, Dr. One, I'm nipped down to
the canteen and buy a 20 pack of cigarettes. Okay, what would you say? Well, and I've always stood
behind this is, you know, we deal with people at work all the time that have lung cancer and
they're like, we give them the news where it's like you've got two months to live.
And then they'd say, one stop and smoking. And my mind is, you're dying in two months.
Why are you stopping now? That's just freaking go for it. I mean, really, I wouldn't, I wouldn't stop.
So, okay, no, good to know. We're on the same mindset.
But in fairness, I have done an episode. It is difficult to give up smoking. So, uh, basically,
go tune that out. And in relation to all the porn stuff that was done, we have,
there has been a few episodes on porn. Oh, I like that. Uh, from both sides of the fence. So, um,
again, if you're listening to this show and you disagree with anything anyone who said
and would like to offer up another opinion or would like to offer tarifications,
then the whole point of this new year show is to get new people recording episodes and
want a better way to do that. Then start a few just tuning and throwing where you'll be sending
lots of episodes. So, please do that. I'm a smoking. Yes. And if you hate me by any means necessary,
I'm Dr. Susa Porn at Yahoo.com. Feel free to send me emails and I'm going to keep being on the
IRC channel and we're going to keep contributing. Well, let's do this in the public.
No, I kind of wanted to see if anyone sent it.
Well, you know, uh, in the spirit of creating new episodes, if you're, you know,
pegwall, if any of your goddamn, uh,
would, you know, would,
would, you know, God, God, God, God, I would,
would like to contribute an episode, you know, and continue to shoot. I'm, I'm more than
willing. I've actually tried to get them to record things. Like, I was like, look, you speak
into the microphone. I will handle the rest of it. But they just go, I don't want to. I don't
have anything to talk about. I'm like, dude, it's not that hard. I mean, considering I haven't
put up an episode in a long time, yes, I know can go ahead and say it. I don't judge.
I just get very, very disappointed. Just tell him it's fucking Bobby.
Possibly.
Okay, 50 like like, okay, so you know, you got the accent going on. You and I are
sympathico, but let's, let's do a little improv here.
Where are you from, man?
South Central Kansas.
South Central Kansas. Okay, so, you know, guessing you're a little bit on the, uh,
NRA side, correct?
I have guns.
Yeah, guns. Holy shit. Okay, okay, okay, NRA guns, all right.
Well, I mean, you're a very, uh, you're a very, uh,
bullfiled people. You're working for the government.
Oh, Jesus Christ. Come on, I'm trying to improv here.
But by the way, I think Dr. Cicifor is in the end of the day.
Oh, yeah, actually, I'm right if they're a pendulum. You know, we're all, we're all
hitting that up. Uh, damn it. You totally spoiled my improv moment.
Uh, you know what, I had nothing so good.
Uh, my, you know, uh, to understand me, my house, I did it July burned down.
I had gun. Now I have guns.
Understand you didn't have a house. Now you have debris.
Exactly. I could show you debris pictures. Exactly.
No, no, he has large clump art supplies.
See, this is where I'm wondering because I'm kind of new and I kind of want to take
little jabs here, but I want to piss anyone off and, but I think it is kind of funny that I just
heard he got hit by a tornado and there's, he has guns now. There is an interesting aspect
of that. Well, that came about because Black Friday, ballmark had 20% of polar firearms.
Okay, so we are doing full on Larry the cable guy situation here. Okay, no, I just had to make
sure like I, I wanted to make sure we were serious here. Okay, cool.
Yeah, I could, I couldn't resist just one shotgun, so I got two.
Well, no, the old place that burned down, I, I saw it again the other day, I think, but he
goes, I don't have any cats with furry tails, but saw that I'm a skunk and I wasn't afraid of
me appropriately. And I thought, man, I need to rid of this six gunk. So I bought like this
a Mossberg 22, but because of the government, you can't buy any 22 ammo. So I've had this rifle
for two months, I can't buy ammo for. I can't buy ammo? Because the government is buying it all.
No, that, that, that's the, I mean, that's the rumor for a while for the past year, Ken,
uh, here, here, you know, thanks, you couldn't buy ammo for anything.
Pepe, you is now the Secretary of State, by the way, that's why.
Close down, but thank you, Jesus Christ, I tried again to like a nice room job. Oh, God,
did I say room job? I mean, you know, room shot. Room shot, yes. Uh, but 22 ammo is still
scarce all over the United States for some reason. I can't, I can't imagine
why the Obama administration was 22 ammo, but you just can't find the stuff. Other stuff is
finally showing up on the shelf, but I mean, us paranormal people have been blaming Obama for a
year because we haven't been able to get ammo. It's like the, you know, everybody's been, uh,
been saying the, uh, the NSA and the, and always the, uh, administrative for disasters or
whatever has been, has been paying up ammo, so citizens can't. FEMA? FEMA, exactly. Yes.
Seriously? I was, I was saying the CDC, I mean, I had pets on the CDC, so here could us.
I mean, it's the same people say, you know, they're, they're bringing back all these attack trucks
from Iraq, Afghanistan, you know, the big Navistars with the, uh, you know, the holes on the bottom
to deflect bombs and all that, like, like we've been talking about it. They've got running around
down in Missouri now, and it's like, why do the cops have these, you know, have these, uh,
explosion resistant trucks? And it's, you know, it can't, it can't be a gift.
It's the protectors. Oh, yeah, right. It can't be a gift in surgeons. It's, you know, there's,
they're, you know, it can't be a gang members. It's the, you know, the only reason is if they want
to go door to door and, uh, have a new year. Honestly. Yeah. Five minutes late. We miss. Oh, I
don't know. I was fucking yelling shit. I don't know what I'm doing. Who just switched?
Mary Quanza. What the hell? Yeah, we're at, we're at, uh, just past nine o'clock, uh, on, uh, you know,
uh, UTC. Yeah, it's exactly the French Polynesia Anchorage Fairbanks, uh, when Alaska and
cans on top of this one. Well, you know, I, I put that in my spreadsheet, and I still got
off an hour someplace. Uh, I gather, uh, earlier today, I heard you, uh, can reading some of my notes,
so you must have been, you must have been able to import them. Uh, these are the notes on the
spreadsheets. Yeah. They sent them into the, uh, etherpad. Well, must have been, I heard you say
guns, guns, guns. That was mine earlier. Somebody also filled those in on the etherpad. No, no, no.
To be fair, that was Ken trying to assassinate someone in, uh, Britain. Uh, I don't want to say who
it was. I'm not, I'm not, I, I can't say that because he's going to be put in jail if I did say
that, but that was, that was what he sold me earlier. Now if we're going to assassinate anybody,
we're going to throw them into flying riches pool. Okay, so we're just killing fucking everyone.
All right. Okay, cool. I'm down with that. Okay. So we're down over throwing governments.
Okay, cool. That doesn't solve anything. How, how, how are dead people going to be able to submit
chills to HPR? I did not actually do. I have almost 10 episodes in the can that are submitted,
at set intervals over the next couple months. So, and, and so if I die, they will still go. Not
that I plan that out, but, you know, it just happens. If they're not on the FTP server, they're not
chills. And they will, they're going to upload. I have automation done. So they, I have my FTP,
well, my FTP server, but I have certain stuff done at intervals, namely turning off lights and
feeding the cats. Let me just go and reset the FTP password for upload. Oh crap. Well, there I go.
There's my, there's my immortality right there. Like I, I got two episodes. There are three in
now. I'm screwed. Oh, I look forward to hearing your episodes, because as, uh, what you said,
Doctor, you have the, you have the most, uh, handle we've ever heard. No, you know what,
I appreciate that. And the thing is, is, is I actually, I was mild about, I, I always want to do
the podcast, things like that HBR, but then when I start recording them and then I heard that my
handle was recorded and said, well, you got a great handle. I was very surprised because I've
always had it. And it's, uh, it's just a handle. And, uh, you know what, Kudos, do you guys
for loving it? And, uh, Kudos me for being a twisted freak, I guess. So if you lie to Kim
Fallon about the amount of shows you have ready, you owe him twice that.
Well, I have seven in the bank. And, and we love that, you know, and
Kim Fallon will go down and tell his children, you know, I have a friend I'm watching
he's named Dr. Cicapur. Oh, shit. Oh, my God. Yeah. And, okay, okay, come on. I'd love to
listen to each other. Probably in the Netherlands, uh, porn doesn't mean any, you know, it doesn't
mean the same thing. Well, the Netherlands, there is this, there's this view that the Netherlands is
this happy, happy land where everybody does porn and, you know, drinks and smokes weed and
those drugs and all sorts, but in actual fact, it is not that time. That is me once.
Did the government censored him? Yes, exactly. But the Netherlands itself is quite a conservative
country and they're just, I've said it before and I'll say it again, they're just quite pragmatic
about stuff. You will always have prostitution so therefore you control it. You'll always have,
you know, the government said, well, the judiciary said, we're not going to prosecute people
for having whatever grunt and grams of weed because it's a complete waste of money when
there's real crimes out there. And then the police said, well, if you're not going to prosecute them,
we're not going to arrest them. So that's where that law came out of. So, um, but otherwise, like
people follow, a lot of people go to church several times in a Sunday, they observe the holidays,
they're very outstanding citizens and, you know, also would sort of look down their nose
that people do on weed and so on. That's sort of stuff. Just so you know, well, you know, I've got
one on the can. I'm going to re-record, but I mean, my take on what podcast to you list to is
going to be what YouTube channels you listen to. And there's a guy who's interesting, you know,
one thing is, you know, what was the difference between England and Britain and the British
Commonwealth and all that? And then another one he did is, you know, what's the difference between
the Netherlands and Holland? And he explained that, you know, Holland is really, there's a north
and a south, and those are really just provinces. He has done a fantastic, um, I know the guy,
he's also done one on the Vatican Church. The amount of research that goes into one of those
episodes is phenomenal. Brilliant idea for a series and 50 bottles. I need to see it on the
server. Thank you. Yeah, I recorded it once and I, you know, there's probably one to change.
It's going to be easier to re-record and is to edit it. But yeah, that's the same guy. So,
what do you have to do to come the King of England? What do you have to do to become Pope?
Yes, very good. I like it. I like it a lot. By the way, yeah, actually, I do that quite a lot with
some episodes, just recorded roughly once and then re-recorded it again with the recorded as a
walk in somewhere with my sounds that just, then it's down and out and then completely re-recorded
it again. But that's a good episode. If you do have episodes lined up, you can always post them
automatically on the server for future dates, anything out to a year. If you want to do it further
out the next email, add me in as heck a public review of that one. Yeah, there's the calendar and you
know, you know, like I've mentioned, these three episodes I had recorded, I was going to,
yeah, if this one we were right, you know, didn't have anything, I was going to throw them out
there and then my fan, my laptop, laptop, which was actually fortuitous because that gave community
time to step up otherwise, you know, HPR would have become, you know, the 51-50 talking out of his
butt podcast. Now, as a suddenly community news, your episodes were very enjoyable and
both a lot to do. By the way, ignore that guy. That is a Akman, though, who's trying to guess, but
I'm going to mute him, hold on. The, the Akman, I want to do, have e-speak, read out those things
at a particular time, but because the eternal was an hour ahead and in time I put in 100 hours,
it flipped it back to the following day. So what you're getting now is all the stuff that I put
into the VPS 24 hours ago. So apologies for that. In my apologies, I think it back as soon as
I thought I could work on tomorrow, but you know, you were very prophetic, Ken, that you got stuck
with doing the editing on everything. No, that's fine, because I, the editing I don't mind,
I'm doing it now as we speak. So I already have two shows posted. The third one is edited and about
to be converted here as we speak. So they, doing that is not a problem, especially when you put in
the time at the very beginning and at the very end, it really, really makes it a lot easier to
do the editing. So that's not an issue. What I am, what is very difficult is doing the show notes
after the fact, because then you're listening to the show and you need to do in the show notes,
but using the online tool either pad or whatever, then all the show notes are done and it was just
copy and pasted them to the, into the posted episode and just job done, everything's done on the
background. So yeah, I then kept up with that since I got home this evening and started
drinking. I'm sorry. Shock heart. See, you know, I, I, I've been asleep in my very comfortable
desk chair and I got in, you know, that was provided to me and I was going to go to bed and,
you know, on a sudden, you know, I really let TJ and, uh, Polk and I think it was soundly
carrying the podcast. So that raised me like the dead and, uh, sent me back here in the chair,
but, uh, didn't stop me drinking. So, you know, I, you know, I, I hope somebody's kept up the notes
because I probably haven't. Yeah, it's been filled out. As we go, I'll probably, you know,
just start doing it now. They, can you tell me who, um, who is, is the owner of the
Mumble server by the way? Somebody, um, last night somebody went and contacted them and he uploaded
the upgraded from 20 to 40 years. See, I, I, I, I, I always, I'm more than I'm throwing back as we speak,
Kim. Well, if you remember, I put a section called tanks at the bottom and, uh, we can,
we can put that in there as well. Yeah, I didn't get to that. We were talking earlier about the,
uh, you know, who to thank and whatever it is. Like, uh, you know, I started and stopped and, uh,
and a couple hours ago, or no, maybe more, we were talking about what podcast we listened to.
I, uh, I threw the, uh, etherpad, lake in the, in, uh, podcast plans that I'm not gonna, you know,
I'm not gonna eyeball these in. You, you, you guys, you know, throw all these in. I'm not gonna do it.
I wrote a, uh, small script. They're generally weak to, um, convert podcast or SS, uh,
URLs into an OPML file. If you want, I can talk about that. Please do.
Just let me pull it up here. I'm surprised Dr. Seuss of Foreign Hasen come in with a room shot
you up there. This will be up on the, uh, HPR website, uh, our Gatorias page, by the way.
So it's called Convert, Convert Mash Potter to OPML. And it's really a bit of a hack.
Um, so the first thing it does is just checks for two arguments. It's probably a better way of doing that.
Um, there's the infile on the outfile. So mashpotter.conf and the goals to whatever,
something that'll, uh, OPML. So nothing rocket sciencey there. Uh, the other thing it does
is it looks for a program called XML Starlet. Now, if you have to deal with XML and expap,
and you're not using XML Starlet, pause this program right now and go download it or do an
apt guess install or human install or whatever, uh, Pac-Man install of XML Starlet. It is a fantastic too.
And while you're talking about that, I'm going to add some people. Uh, Jay Rula,
uh, uh, just after 35 minutes, past midnight and my time and, and it's probably while I was
taking a little break, but, uh, he said something about all UMC drunkenness yet. Wait till 5150 comes back.
So XML Starlet is a, uh, toolkit is that allows you to do command line utilities for XML.
And from the man page, XML Starlet is a set of command line tools that can be used to transform
query validate and edit XML documents and files using a simple set of shell commands. In a similar
way, that is done for a pin text file using Unix grab, said, alc, dip, patch, join, etc. command.
This set of command line utilities can be used by those who deal with many XML documents on the
Unix shell command prompt, as well as for automating XML processing of the shell scripts.
The main command is options are dash dash version and dash dash help, which will display
version on help, but then you go down into the various different commands after that.
Okay, uh, Ken, it's a busy day and I couldn't scroll back far enough, but it just appeared in my mind.
John Newsteader is the, uh, it is the host of the, uh, uh, of the HR mobile server that you want to
correct it. Perfect. Thank you very much. Can I put that into the notes? How would you spell his
second one? Uh, I get just like it stands in, in EU Steader.
S-T-E-D-D-E-R.
Anyway, it's in the notes, somebody can correct it, that would be great.
Okay, back to XML Starlet, which we all love, of course. So they
uh, XML Starlet, and it's all on some locations, it's just abbreviated to XML. So on Windows,
it might be XML or XML Starlet. It's available from Mac, Windows, and Linux as well,
and the source code is available also. You have various different rough-up commands that you can do
on a file. So you have XML Starlet space, ed, space select, space, XML Starlet, ed, and then
whole-go stuff. XML Starlet select and whole-go stuff. And those commands are ed for edit,
cell, SEL for select, T-R for transform, V-A-L for validate, F-O for format, EL to display
an amount structure of a document, C-14N XML con-ecalization, that word shouldn't exist.
LS list, a directory as an XML file, amazingly useful from times, escape, escape special XML
characters on escape, on escape special XML characters, P-I-X, convert XML to P-I-X format,
which is obviously ISO 8879, and I'm not reading that from the main page at all.
The P-2-X convert P-Y-X into XML. To be honest, a lot of these are new functions that have just
been added in the last few releases. So pretty cool. There's a XML Star-devel at
list.source.net and the bug tracker is also linked in the thing there.
What I tend to use it for is doing selections. So you can take an XML file and then basically
convert it into a delimited text file and then you can use setup and grip on it after that.
You can also use it for validating. So for example, the main core of what I'm doing is I
getting back to this convert-mash-patter to OPML and I know all the bash programmers out there
are going to have heart attacks when they see how ugly this code is. But again, this is all the
clever and cunning plan in my part to write a terrible code so that you can all come in and do
other episodes on how to improve Ken's script. So the first thing is the basic tenant of the thing
is to cast a file that you've got all your URLs in. So you've got a list of URLs that come from
somewhere either from bash-patter or a list on a website or something or other. And you want to
convert those into an OPML file. So for each of those files that come in, it will double
get them from the website and then parse them into the right format to fit into an OPML document.
So probably you should talk to you about what an OPML file is first, I guess. Give me a moment
while I drag up some information on that. So thanks to our, thanks to Wikipedia for the following
information. OPML is the outline processor markup language and that's the next model format
that outlines defined as a tree where each node contains a set of named attributes and string
values. Originally developed by user land as a native file format for outlander application
for its radio user land product since then has been adopted by many different people.
So that doesn't take, tell you a whole lot. Let's see, about XML, just give me one second.
XML is a file format and the intention of XML for people who don't know is to make a file format
that is both human, readable and machine readable at the same time. Whether it is, it's defined by
the W3C's XML1.0 specification, allow a lot of people use the 1.1 specification, which isn't
that's, that's one amazingly different. It's internet media type is application
forward slash XML or sometimes text forward slash XML. And it's basic thing is that you can have
thing, if there's something that you want to display, you can have it within nested tags. So for
example, I could have, well, all documents have to start with the less than question mark XML
and then some other attributes they can be in there and then continue on from that. But let's
go back to the panel as an example. So the first part of the document is that exact string.
What I do is I echo into the outfile the heading header parts of the, that's required by the old
HTML specification. On similar to a webpage, you've got a head section that is got title and
date created. And the day created, I just go out to a shell and get the date in UTC or FC2822 format,
which is the email format that's used for RSS as well. And the dash, the date space,
dash U puts it in UTC format and space dash dash, or CD, or FC, dash 2822 will specify that
the dates are in that format. I'll just give you an example of what exactly that looks like.
So here I've got a test file, which is got to URL zone. One is distrocast, which is got the
podcast and podcast distrocast.org question mark feed equals podcast, apresant format equals
org. Just as we're speaking about this, gender reminder that distrocast podcast is looking for
volunteers to assist in converting their, uh, to in continuing their show. The distrocast is a weekly
newsletter that's sent out by Lassard Father of the distrocast, distrowatch website. The distro
watch is known by many people as a place where you can get information on distros and has been
run and for as long as I can remember. The distrocast podcast takes that, um, feed and makes it
accessible by turning it and using it as a script or a weekly podcast. They're looking for
volunteers and if you're able to volunteer to do that, even as part of a larger team, then feel free
to contact us here and we will pass you on pass on the information to you about that.
So the other podcast is, uh, rude jick podcast, go ahead.
Okay, the other one is podcast.org, you jic.net or such question feed equals rss2 fast
three, which is the mashputter format.
And you picked those two because they presented a, both of those had, um, issues with formatting one
was that there was an upper send and the other was that there was a double call.
So when I convert those in my, the header part becomes, um, the XML line with the encoding,
the open mail version to, it's got a head and under, nested under the head is a title,
uh, bashputter opml export for such, uh, end title tag, opening day created with the
days and then closing the header and then basically the butter, the body.
And the body continues on with lots of lines and each of the lines is one line for the podcast
itself. There are several different, sorry, the district cast of org podcast is not in any way
related to the district watch podcast, the district cast podcast is one where they take episodes
and they run through them and compare them, it hasn't been released in a while, but that doesn't
take away from the fact that the district watch podcast, the district watch podcast is looking for
supporters. So sorry about that. Anyway, making, uh, making this a lot more complicated than
it actually needs to be. So once we get down to the body part of this, which has been outputted
into a file, and then at the end, I have a closing body tag, closing opml tag, and I'll pipe that
into the output file as well. So for each line that's in the incoming file, I create one of those
outline files. And to do that, I, first of all, use WGEST Quiet Mode, with a timeout of five
tries equals one. If you don't put a timeout in their WGEST, we'll attempt to go to the website
and we continue downloading. But in my case, if the website's not up, then we just move on to the
next one. What you see a lot is that websites, podcasts tend to go away after a while, and then
their website becomes unavailable. And so you just skip over those. So WGEST, Dash Esquire,
Space Dash Dash Timeout equals five. Timeout after five seconds. Space Dash Dash tries
equal one, one which I want, and then the URL. And then after the URL, I do, I do have the URL
in quotes, just in case there are any characters like Apersons that will be interpreted by the bash
command line. Then I have a space Dash Capital All. To say, don't save it as a file, I'll put it
somewhere, and I use Space Dash to say, I'll put it to standard. I'll put it to the console.
Ken, I want to break in. You cast me with finding the correct spelling. The gentleman provides us
with the Bumble server, John Newsteader, and I finally found it with my adult brightness.
It's over in Hatch on cast plan for you. Fantastic, thanks.
And I'm going to take this time to say I'm going to bed. I will see you all next new years.
I hope it isn't that long shoot. I've got 20 minutes from, you know, not counting the part I said,
my very comfortable desk chair was out. You know, from doing the whole 24 hours,
at this point, I will, you know, probably do the 26th. And then anything after that mark,
mark us, if you can hear me, that's up to you. Absolutely.
Shall I continue on with this or is it boring me to drive me all to sleep?
No, please, please do. This is probably the most interesting thing. I've been concentrating on
my other tasks, so I haven't actually been listening, but please go on. That's another problem.
So because a lot of these URLs will give errors, I redirect standard output into DevNull,
so taking two and redirect forward slash dev for recessional. So that is going to give me a list
of XML files that are going to be dumped out one after the other. So for each one of the XML files
that comes through, there might be four or four files, there might be something else files,
I don't really know, but I'm going to pipe them into XML Starless. And I'm going to use the select
command. And if you do XML Starless space SEL and then space dash dash help, you'll get more
information about that, which is what I'll do right now. Oh, Ken, why you got it right, guys.
It looks like we have dropped doctors to support that he was involved in, he wouldn't do anything,
if you're looking for an opportunity for your kids on, you say hello, this is probably the time to do it.
Yeah, it's okay, I'll bring them whenever they're ready to plan to your time.
Yes, we've still got another how many hours. Oh, we missed it, not quite the half.
And in the normal podcast, and like I said, I also become a cliche, I fully expect them just to
jump into another like 12 hours after we give up. That is the tradition that we will put in
lives as long as they keep talking. So I'll keep doing this and then I'll bring the kids in,
how about that, because they have actually, you know, whatever I'm just saying, we, you know,
apparently we've run off all the wild folks for the current time.
Yeah, you carry it now, it's back on my shoulders to carry it for the rest of the wild,
it's not a problem.
So back to XML Starless, the select command that allows you to essentially
replicate SSLT or X-Path expressions. And you get various different options like
dash C, copy of, dash feed, print, dash O to output, literal strings, dash end, print, new line.
So it does give you a north lot of the functionality that you would expect if you're using X-S-LT.
But to be honest, I find it a lot easier to use than working with an X-S-LT structure. So
so that's pretty cool. I'm tend to use the following commands quite a lot and not deviate it
really too much from those. So XML Starless space, SEL for select, space, dash, capital T.
And what that does is say I want to output text. You can also use XML Starless to convert
from one XML format into another, which I technically could do. I could use XML Starless
to do this, but I think it would be a lot more complicated. So really what I'm doing now is
producing a list of a line of delimitic characters. So then after the capital T, there's a space
lowercase T. And that says call a template. So I'm making a new X-S-LT template, which is kind of
required. I don't want this to be a discussion on X-S-LT because to be honest, my brain starts
getting a little bit wobbly when I do that. But I need to have a template in order to look for
something and then produce something. So it's just the way X-S-LT works. And the dash M is match.
So I'm going to match the slash RSS slash channel. And what I'm looking for here is the
RSS specification. So that anything coming in, I'm expecting it to be an RSS URL. And they have
an nested XML file. So whereas the OPML starts with OPML, then you have a body and then you have
an outline. With RSS, the header section is actually a channel. And that tells you about what the
channel is. So for HPR, if you ever download the HPR RSS feed, then you will see all the information
about HPR in there, which I can do as well, just give me one second. All the HPR feeds are available
on the website. If you just click the bar button of radio, you'll get all the feeds.
We have several different feeds available. The one that most people use is the HPR underscore
underscore RSS.php, which is our algorithm. So I've opened that up now. And we have another
XML format file. And the first line is RSS version Blah, which tells the parser of what this is.
You also have UTF-8 in there, but that's by the way. Then we have a channel section, which describes
what the particular channel is about. And I think that a think of that as a
as sort of, yeah, it also encompasses this whole thing. So this is a channel. That channel is
a hack of public radio. Within the channel section, you have title links, various different things,
and then you get into an item. And then the items are the actual shows. And then there you also
have title offer and links. So in that, excluding the item sections in the channel sections,
you have all the things are related to this channel, which is hacker public radio, the hacker public
radio channel. So you've got a title in there. You've got a link linking back to the show. You've
got some iTunes stuff. You've got a description. So what I'm looking for is the title and the
description from here, which I can then push into an opml file. So when I get that back,
I look for RSS channels. So with XML Starless, I'm parsing the RSS feed. And I position myself
that I'm under RSS and I'm in channel. So I can refer to everything just as title, meaning I know
where I am. Think of it a bit like changing directly. I've changed directly from the root
into RSS, then into the channel. And now when I'm talking about title and talking about title,
because I happen to be in the channel, I'm not the title that I would need to be if I change
directly into an item and then looked at the title. So the title refers to the title of the channel
from there on it. It's a lot easier if you follow along. So then what I'm doing is I'm producing
a whole list of text. And I use probably a very ugly hack. And I'm sure there's better ways
of doing that. And I'd love to hear episodes about it, obviously. I use placeholder,
hash, placeholder, underscore less than hash, then the word outline, space, text equals.
And basically what I'm doing here is I'm filling up a having XML Starless produce strings.
And within those strings, concasinase in two different items. One is the title of the channel
from the RSS feed and the other is the description of the channel from the RSS feed. So in the case of
hacker public radio, the title will be hacker public radio. And
I'll just continue on because I need to go in a moment or two. And then we have description,
which is hacker public radio is a podcast that releases shows every weekday, Monday to Friday.
Our shows are produced by community. You can be on the talk, that's a bit of interest
factors, etc, etc. So then that produces that string essentially. And it pipses
with a dash end meaning put a new line after each of the lines and sends it out to standard output.
I also redirect any errors into devnal meaning they're just thrown away. And then I use a
set command which I got from gist.github.org, agroboy, who had done that, to escape XML characters.
Because XML is made out of greater than signs, less than signs, codes, double codes,
and appressants, those on and semicolons, those all need to be escaped out, meaning that
you if you want to actually carry an appressant in XML, you need to convert that appressant
into a appressant into the literal string, appressant, AMP, semicolon. So that needs to be done
for all of those. So the set command will take all of those and replace them and it also replaces
the placeholders to gradients and less than, which is an ugly way of doing it. I will be the first to
admit that. But what you end up with is the placeholder for gradients then being converted to
a gradients and less than, and any gradients and less than that have been added or codes or
double codes or appressants that are in the text or the description of the RSS feeds that are being
sent down. They're all correctly escaped and put into this opml file. And then it basically does
that and at the end it just puts the last closing body tag and closing opml tag. That's pretty much it.
That's all I have to say about that. I'm sure it's all very fascinating and I have to admit that
you set me up to find the right spelling of John Newsteader. I was concentrating on that
rather than listening to you and then I was running down to the laundry downstairs to find
pants. He doesn't need it, but I'm sure. I definitely want to listen to this when it comes out
on the podcast. I'm not just dismissing you, but me and drinking this evening and all that I can
honestly come to you and say, well, I've been listening with all the ears to the whole thing.
Now that I'm done and I didn't expect you to. So what I've done is I've just pasted all three
things into the YouTube head, which will put them into the show notes for this. So you get an
exact idea of what exactly I'm trying to do. So the first thing is we're trying to convert
one thing and then into the output format, which you'll see there and then I'll put in the
bash file basically explaining how it's done. And the very last thing I use is XML Starlet Validation
to validate the output call and that's pretty much that. Hey, Andy Valin.
My, this, actually, I believe this is the first time we've ever been in a podcast together.
That would actually be true. And some pirates are lost, matey. How's life?
Ah, right now a bit sleepy, but it's 10 to 5 a.m. here. Uh, actually just got back up from downstairs
was working on model train model trains. See you. Tell us more.
Yeah, I modeled the original Norfolk Southern in end scale. It's specifically a model Edenton
North Carolina in 1948. The original Norfolk Southern ran from Norfolk, Virginia to
Raleigh and then on to Charlotte, North Carolina. And by modeling 1948, I get to have a mixture
of steam and diesel powered as well as passenger trains and I model a late summer. So it's
peanut and potato season in Edenton. So that that adds lots of interesting traffic. And
you know, I do a lot of scratch building and it's a lot of fun. Very cool. Very cool.
Do, uh, do tell us more about this because, uh, I need to just nip out and do some folder time,
something like, you know, I'll be back in a few minutes. Yeah.
Well, I was actually, honestly, thinking about calling it a night. He's okay. No, no.
I don't do, don't do that. Man, you're going to stick me with, I started here
24 hours ago trying to come up with something to say.
Fortunately, I'm actually up at my dad's place until I get, move out west and
he has me doing farm work. So I'm going to be spending tomorrow putting up a bunch of fence and
I need to sleep. I'll be back in, I'll be back in five minutes with the kids. Yeah,
we'll carry it from them. Yeah, that'll be good. You know, I don't know if you, if you heard, Ken,
we just, it's covered this evening that me and TJ are mortal enemies.
Yeah, I heard that. Wait, wait, 51. I missed this part.
I'm a crager and TJ is related to Campbell's.
Ah, I'm, I'm clan McDuffy. So I'm with, well, it's interchangeable McDuffy and McFee,
you know, depending on who's sitting up and who's the clan chiefed and actually right now there's
no one as clan chiefed in. Yeah, although I've never used that kid that wanted to wear a
kilt to his forebow, you know, so I, you know, I signed in as a clan McRager saying, yeah, you
should look, you should let the kid wear a kilt. Yeah, you know, I never went to any high school
dances, but if I had, I'd have probably worn a kilt and I'd have probably gone the command though.
No, you, you see it with the kilt, it's called regimental.
Yeah, I've actually never heard it and called regimental. I just heard it called the commando,
but at any rate, you know, one of my other hobbies is I do SCA and I do late 13th century scott,
you know, someone with it would have been running around with Braveheart and that crowd and
they did not wear kilt's contrary to Braveheart.
No, I mean, the kilt, as we know it, is because the English and sister of the scott's
had at least the top half of a uniform. Before that, the, you know, the pardon was, was a worn
more like a toga. Well, yeah, it's basically they wore their blanket. Yeah, exactly. They wore
the horse blanket. And, you know, going back to era of Braveheart, that was not too common,
especially in what definitely wasn't seen amongst the nobles. The nobles were something called
a lean, which basically looked like a really long dress. Well, see, you know, I've my problems
Braveheart because they have the, oh, I don't think I've seen it since the first time I watched
it. There's seed like here comes the graggers and here's these greasy half dressed people
coming out of the trees, you know, it's like it in joke because, of course, Braveheart, you know,
his uncle's Argyle. And Argyle's a title, the family name was Campbell. Again, these are my
more enemies. So, you know, so the Lord of Argyle is a Campbell. And so in Braveheart, they,
you know, they, they didn't, they, uh, be little to the graggers.
Well, it's, the movie is definitely full of inaccuracies. The first battle that they showed,
they called, they called battle of sterling. It really was the battle of sterling bridge,
and it took place on a bridge. And there is no bridge in that battle in the movie.
Well, yeah, and, uh, well, it was from a contemporary poem, I mean, and they imply that, uh,
oh, Mel Gibson's character was actually the father of the, uh, you know, of the
fish line after thatness. It's like the, uh, uh, the gay prince's wife from France, she didn't even
show up in England until four years after William Wallace was dead. Indeed, I mean, at the time of
the events, the movie, she was like nine years old. And so therefore, not likely to be,
and it's goodly pumping around. Of course, they did do things pretty young back then.
Right, and I mean, all these guys went off to the, uh, to, you know, to, to the, uh,
same position, that's not right, but, uh, to the crusades, it's always been implied. A lot of those
guys, you know, a lot closer to the consul and whatever than they were to their lives.
Well, um, well, yeah, Braveheart, I love Braveheart movie when I was young. And now that I know what
actually went down historically, I can't stand it. Well, I still like this movie, but I don't expect
to be historical at all. Well, I mean, they could have tried a little harder, you know,
like had them wear the right things and, uh, things, you know, they could have worn the right stuff
and they could have had the battle of Sterling Bridge actually be on a bridge. You know,
just stuff like that that wouldn't have been hard to do, but they didn't even bother.
Well, you've got to point that it is, we'll get to the movie.
I mean, to be honest, I was half, last time I saw it, I was half expecting, uh, you know,
a super-parad car, but half the body palette was missing and a bunch of skulls welded on here
and there to come charging over the hill with some bald dude with the machine gun start just
opening up on everybody. Well, you know, to be fair, Rob Boy wasn't much better.
Well, I was thinking, uh, more along the lines of Mad Max.
No, no, but, you know, I think historical movies. I mean, Rob Boy, you know, we were talking about
feuds and stuff most of life because of the prescription. He called himself a Campbell
and, you know, they make him a hero in the movie and Rob Roy pretty much, you know, he was
had a great man, but, you know, he removed himself. He, you know, he didn't do anything himself.
He said, cousins and, uh, such do his farming for him.
Also random aside, by the way, um, and Scott Scalik, which it's debatable as to whether or not
Wallace spoke it. He probably at least knew a little bit, but it's debatable as to whether or not
he spoke it as his native language. But anyway, in Scott Scalik, you have no W sound. So,
and Gallic, his name is William Orless. Yeah, you know, that's one of the things I like to do.
I talked earlier this evening on my bucket list. I would like to see New Zealand and, uh,
caught to confirm there are places in New Zealand that look like all these, uh,
rather picturesque places that we see in the Hobbit movies and the, uh, further
ventures of Hercules and, uh, and, and probably before that on my bucket list would be
go to Scotland and, uh, book the solid of my, uh, forefathers. We are coming up on
another hour. So, let me see where we are, you know, where we ought to be.
I do see, we're, well, it's been 24, I've been up 24 hours. So it's GMT 10 o'clock again
the next day. Let me scroll down. And when I say scroll down on my crappy old computer because my,
laptop, I did something around with, uh, DNS and I shouldn't have, and it's, it's got, you know,
make the connection, but it's flaky on DNS. I mentioned that earlier today.
Okay. Okay. If I have it right out of it, it is, uh, 10 Zulu 2015. It are, uh,
uh, greetings to small reasons of USA must be out there by Hawaii. And, uh, no, since Honolulu,
uh, Ratonga, Ajak, and, uh, Pepit. So, looks like they're celebrating a year out there in Hawaii.
I, I, which I was there, rather in the snow and the 16 degree temperature, what we had today.
So, uh, you know, if it, if, if anybody's out there, why are you listening? Uh, I don't think we've
ever had anybody from Hawaii on the channel. Please, please jump into the, uh, uh, mumble and join us and
tell us what it's like not to freeze your butt this time.
All right. Hi, 50. I've got my kids here. Shall we do that now?
Oh, please do. Uh, just give me one second. I'm gonna switch to
Okay. Who are you? Say hello. Happy New Year to everybody.
Happy New Year. We meet here. I'm lotion.
Okay. Who are you?
Happy New Year. I'm so good.
Okay. Who are you?
Happy New Year. I'm chunnish.
Okay. I'm chunnish.
Happy New Year. I'm Malone.
The boys in page group.
Happy New Year to kids, kids, family.
Happy New Year, y'all.
Okay. So, what did we got here? I came down one morning and found this.
And this.
You know, you're, you're, you're feeding on
strage boxes. This is not translate very well into audio cam.
Shall I tell you what's in those boxes?
Please do. There's a box full of hard disks components.
And it's completely taken apart. Who took these apart?
We love it. It's not a completely, um, some things are stuck together.
Okay. So, what, what did I do? I give you a hard disk.
I'm told you to take it apart.
Yes, only this is not possible.
So, what's this part here? What was the first thing that you have to take, take the part?
And uh, what was this?
Okay. So, we have the outside case. So, you took the case apart.
The first thing you took off was the, what's what, what do we call this?
I don't know why.
It's in what color is it?
Yeah, it's a printed circle board.
I'm, I'm what did I, what did I say that does?
Yeah, I'm what I'm saying.
Yeah, so.
It, it talks, dodge on one side and it talks to the hardest from the other side, yeah?
So, it converts the instructions from one side and the other.
And what's this on the bottom? What do you think that's for?
Um, uh, oh my gosh, that's not it.
You have to say them in English.
To, um, to stick it together.
Yeah, and also?
Um, it's sharp, but then it is, um, thinking.
That's right. It stops it from vibrating.
Okay, so when you took off the printed circle board, what was that?
Uh, uh, oh.
And where the, where you able to find all the screws or were they hidden?
Uh, yes, three, five, yes, two, three.
Well, they didn't go all come out.
So, where, what did you have to take off and together the rest of the screws?
Uh, the stickers.
Yes, stickers, all the stickers.
And then we, we, and then that's clues and then, okay, that's all.
Okay, so what's in the book?
Woo, that is the, your, that is a part.
Do you know what that goes?
Nope.
It's a round thing in the middle.
Now, have a spin of it.
Tell me what you think it does.
Remember we watched it?
We, uh, spin star dish.
Yes, exactly.
Now, you're one.
They, Schneider and Roisin have one that's quite old and it's only got,
uh, it's only got one pattern, but public has a newer one.
It was all 20 megabytes.
And public's one is glued in.
So his motor doesn't come out of the, out of the,
uh, out of the case.
So, what else did you have?
What, what was inside it?
It's sort of, uh, sort of a CD.
CD.
I am.
Yeah, it's a hard disk.
What should we do?
You can remember the name?
The hard disk platter.
And can you tell me something about it?
To make a nice sound?
Wait, you're not supposed to touch the together.
Ooh, the duper.
Nice.
Put that off to the microphone.
I thought they were made very good mirrors.
Yeah, they're made very good mirrors.
I remember we saw the video, the slow mo, the slow mo guys.
It's an also another good YouTube video channel.
They took a hard disk apart.
I'm up there they do.
Um, it's more fun.
Or water on it.
Yes, and then I made you want some blinds.
It was working after that so much.
But did you see how fast it works?
So, what else was there?
So, you have these hard disks on the motor.
You have the motor in the center.
You've got these platters on top.
Poddrich had, when I needed you have?
And they're like pizza bucks.
There's one cup of the other.
Yeah.
And I wish we could only have one.
But it's a very pretty one.
And what else was there?
This.
This would be a...
It's an actuator, it's cold.
Yeah, it's like an arm.
And yours has just got one.
With this.
And this, this doesn't really work very well on radio.
This is a cable that goes into a controller.
And all the instructions that come out of the back of the computer
goes down those little pins and goes through a ribbon cable to the actuator.
And why is the X-Wats on the back of the actuator?
You see that metal there?
It's shaped a bit like a can opener, I guess.
And Poddrich's one has got four different fingers.
Why is that?
Because it has four different fingers.
Very good.
Very unique instructions on on his got one.
Hey Ken Fallon, quick suggestion.
Will we do those show notes for this?
Tossed up a few pictures of all this stuff.
Absolutely, we'll do you.
So what else have we got?
Magnus.
Magnus.
Magnus.
Ooh, that, oh yeah.
Yes, and there.
Can you tell us about the Magnus?
It's really stuck.
It really stuck together, really strong.
Why, uh, what do you think the Magnus, what did the guys say the Magnus were for?
There was another one called the engineer guide.
Can you remember what he said about the...
No, no, um, I'm...
It's a very good video, the engineering guide.
Mm.
He said the Magnus were to make the platter more definitely.
There is a little Magnus in one of the big Magnus I'm going to pull that enough.
Actually, I appreciate the output.
First, I need to...
I'm stuck with it.
Yeah, you need to get a screwdriver and pull them apart.
I'll be careful.
What do we learn about the screwdriver?
A way...
A way from yourself and not to yourself.
So, you don't push it, which, yeah, like this doesn't work on regular scissors.
So, you have to describe it.
So, say you put your hand down on the table.
You have to make sure that you're pushing it away,
so that your hand is behind the screwdriver.
And also, your brother and sister is behind this screwdriver, yeah.
Behind this.
Behind this.
Yeah.
Fine, fantastic.
And what other, what other screws, what other tools did you use?
Did you have funny shaped screws?
And where did you get them?
So, did you get the screws for that?
Where's the two of them?
From...
Here.
And this is our...
Drapper SEC33FFP.
And it's got multiple head tools.
If you don't have one of these, you should definitely guess.
It's got all, uh, I don't know, many, many's in there.
Somebody tell them.
Four times it's...
Four times it is, please.
Here, here, ah.
There you go, and that girl has dyscalculia.
Give her a big round of applause, everybody.
The crowd goes balls.
I can't clap and hold push and talk at the same time, sorry.
Okay, but he's doing a virtual clap.
Now, Roisin has got a piece of...
Ooh, what does it look like a tampon?
A monster bonzer.
It's a filter paper, but it's really small.
It's a size of your fingernail.
What did you say that was for a built-in flip?
Um, uh, for me, um, to...
The dust, to king the little bits of dust on the hardest.
Because this, when a hardest spins, remember how fast it's going?
It's going 60 miles an hour on the head.
That's as fast as they're allowed to go on the motorway, if the car is on the motorway.
One over the hardest.
And what else did you say about the hardest?
Remember how a tufukal thing?
Um, yes, if you stretch half of the disc out,
so the radius of the disc out to make it the size of a football field.
What?
It's so, um...
Last?
Last, um, small hair.
A single strand of hair.
So if you stretch out the radius of a hard disc out to the size of a football field,
it is so flat that from one end to the other end,
it doesn't go up and down from the length of your hair,
which is very, very small.
Pretty impressive, huh?
But now, what are hardest being replaced by?
Other discs, so some other stages, and they're a bit boring.
They don't have anything inside them.
You can take some of them at heart as well.
So, what else, was that fun?
Yeah, I screwed up.
And now, what are you going to do with the bits?
Uh, um, Knutzel?
So Knutzel is called Arts and Crafts.
What do you think they're making?
Uh, I don't know.
That's something.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Oh, we need to...
I don't know.
We need to make a magnet so that it can stick to it.
can find other little magnets and these are the best magnets ever. Yes, I am one of the
smallest magnets I ever seen. That small magnet is used to hold the hardest
in the head in place. So that's when you turn off the hard disk. It doesn't go
sliding at cause and damaging and that's what this is for the other side of it.
It's a really small town. That's to make that stick to that. So that's one is on
the side of the on the side of where the hardest comes in and the other one
pulls in the hardest and the stick together. So that's when you turn off the
it's won't be in the safe place. So you wanted to say something on the
channel? I was going to say if they wind up making something with all these bits
post something with or post that too. Yeah, we'll do. Also, yeah, I'm curious
this to how old they were. How old are you? How old are you? Nearly 11. Nearly 11. Yes,
another three words. So you're seven. You're going to be eight. And you're going to be
11. March. Yes, almost. So good ages to be taking on engineering projects. Absolutely. What else did
you do this year in the front room? Nothing. Yeah, we made a baby. Oh, yeah. Yeah, you put
together. We got a whole goal. Was that hard? No, it's good like doing Lego, wasn't it?
Yes, it is. We got some flat packed furniture from like here. I put one of them
together and they put the rest together. It's child labor. What's going to get you
again is, you know, when you actually have to have to put them to work and you've got some
key instructions and all that to help you do that. You know, pretty, pretty, uh,
pre-made labor force. Exactly. And Lego trains them exactly, you know, from putting Lego
together. No, exactly what to do. What were you saying? By the way, what did I say? First
of all, what did I say about holding tools? When you're finished with them, you put them
down, yeah? Okay. Now, you know what they're magnets for? Now, where it sits. Well, it sits
into that. Into a small enclosure. Yes, enclosure. And I don't know where this is. That
magnet goes in it. That's it. That's our first planet. And the box box. Oh, okay.
Yes. So cool. Clearly, um, clearly you found your own farmer because when you put down
tools, the rule is you, you, uh, put them down where you could not find them again for
25 years. And you, you, you, you find the old rusted tool 40 years later. Yeah. And,
and, and, and wish, you know, you make the wish again that if you could farm by planting
old tools, you would be a billionaire. Yes, I was a farmer. I didn't know exactly what
you mean. Oh, so you know about things like running around, putting in fence posts and
all kind of stuff like that. Yes, I do. My hands are scarce to prove it. Just why I
need to be going to bed because that's not going to be doing here in a few hours. All
right. Say goodbye to him. Some pirates. He's a pirate, an actual pirate. I don't know if
you didn't say he was actually handsome. I'm 5150 as a cowboy. Hi, good job now. Okay, what
else? Did you want to share some Dutch naughty words with people? No? Are there some
useful Dutch words that people can learn? If you folks would like to use some extra
Dutch saying, I think we would enjoy that. The boors sit in the boss. I'm a very funny
daughter. The boors sit in the boss. It literally translates to the farmer sits in the
boss and it's, I think it's funny because it was the first sentence in Dutch I ever learned
because it was the first sentence in a Dutch book that I had. And to this day after 15
years, I have never managed to put a sentence together where I used the boors sit in the
boss. Well, I'll tell you what. Would you say the farmer sits in the boss? That puts me
in mind of a duck blind rifle. You know, taking an old bus body and throwing it in next to
a river or body of water. And the only person that is for hunters to inhabit this old bus
body and job when they see if they have a population of ducks. And I could have done that
to now see the laws in Kansas or that. If I'm hunting on my own property or my father's property,
of course, I do not need a hunting license. However, if I'm hunting up a game, then I have to load
my shotgun or steel shot, which I really need to do. I would have to buy a hunting license
and then purchase a hunting stamp. And I was out there day and met there were a thousand ducks
sitting out there on my property. And I can't touch them. Well, from their point of view,
it's you sitting in their property. Okay, guys, do you want to say goodbye?
Yeah, bye, bye. Bye, bye, kids. We're not going to put in the headset one second.
Look at the whole thing, because it just doesn't rhyme. We have the singing thing.
Hello, Kido, Kido. We're back.
Good morning. We're hopping in here as well.
Good morning. Chalka, Chalk.
Alum. Chalkalam?
It's a crash. It's like a native, spoke like a native.
And, you know, kids, kids, guys, kids up and it's like, oh, we got to talk to the creepy junk guy,
or the creepy guy who's in America who's scoring his words because he's wasted.
No, you're a cowboy. This is the coolest thing on the planet. We get to talk to a cowboy and a pirate.
Well, that reminds me of, uh, he's the big old black hat and I was sort of a customer who was a, uh,
a school. And I went to Dr. Joffice and the, uh, uh, the minister, he had his kids there.
And I walked in and the kids were, you look like a cowboy. I said, it's the hat.
He looks like a wolf cowboy. He sounds like a cowboy. He's a cowboy.
So many more hours are left in this thing. That is the question.
Well, we just left the, uh, the original mark. So, uh, you know, another two hours,
less 20 minutes, uh, by my reckoning. And then, of course, uh, where's Marcus?
Marcus, Marcus, get over for 30 hours. Yeah, that's fine. I mean, it's, uh, it stops at 12.
So that's, that's that basically. So an hour and a half, it's over.
Cool. Well done. Well done. Well done.
Uh, let's, let's have a look and see how many people were on the strings, actually.
At this point, I would wait your not a whole lot.
There are 21 listeners on the, uh, one stream with a peak listeners of 31 people.
And there are, on the second stream, there are zero listeners with a peak listeners of 14.
So total of, uh, 45 max people, at any one time.
But 21 right now, I'm just flabbergasted. We're rockin' the world, rockin' the world.
Well, suppose the Europeans are creeping out of their, um, caves at the Bonwinton,
the Americans are heading off to bed. Celebrate your trip.
Oh, I tell you what, man. I'm, I'm figuring on saying another, uh, on some starts hour and a half.
But, uh, not without will help. You know, see you folks, uh, working on the stream, jump on the
and, uh, you know, keep me awake. One hour or two, three minutes.
It would be interesting, again, to hear about the kind of technology that went into, uh,
the strings and, uh, maybe it's not very complicated. I just don't know how that works.
Yeah, sure. I can run through that for you. Um, there were, one of the, the, we're using mumble.
Uh, and we need to thank again.
Tell you what, you can't, can't save you for podcast.
No, this is a podcast. I mean, we do need to fill an hour and a half with, with stuff, so I have no problem doing, huh?
Um, um, John Newsteader runs the mumble server, which you're all on at the moment. So it's, um,
as I get the window open for a second.
It's, uh, open speak.
And, uh, CH1 dot team speak dot cc port six four seven four seven.
And in there, we all essentially just chat using mumble, uh, mumble is a great little tool for, um,
essentially IRC for audio, I guess, would be the best, um,
would be the best description of, uh, of what it is.
And in there, we have, uh, two, uh, streaming bots.
So they're mumble clients.
One is a HPR streamer bot.
And the other is the ZEC bot from Kevin, wish her.
And, um, I don't know how Kevin is doing his, uh, streaming bots.
I'll run through how I set up my one if you want.
Yeah, this streamer, I don't understand that's why you'll tell us is it client or what is it?
Yeah, sure. I'll tell you just one second.
And all kids getting, uh, associated, uh, I have said we have, uh,
found a couple recent, uh, clients or, or, or members rather, uh, who not find mumble very
accessible. And, um, you know, we'd like to help through that.
So, uh, yeah, absolutely.
It is, uh, turned out to be inaccessible for our, uh, visually impaired listeners.
Um, and that, uh, I really don't understand why there's no command line client for mumble.
There's no reason why it couldn't, we couldn't have a command line client for it,
or at least a, a, um, something that would use, um, what do you call us?
Well, Jonathan told me today that if you had all asked for the settings, uh, then you can,
you know, the, the settings are very accessible, which is strange for a Qt project.
Uh, but the whole thing, I forgot to dismiss when I was trying to help out, uh, by
getting trapped in the first time, you get into mumble if you, if you don't select.
Uh, if you do, or select a server as the first thing, the next thing is it tries to go with a bunch of
dialogues and, uh, and, uh, set your levels for, uh, transmitting.
So I did, I didn't throw in how to get out of that.
And, uh, I'd go around until probably for a lot of people that might, well, be, uh, necessary.
But, uh, I did come up with a basically text, um,
tutorial because, uh, as we discussed, Ken, you know, the, the PDF
mumble tutorial is, you know, it's great visual people.
You know, and, you know, it's got a bunch of screenshots.
But if you want to listen to it as text, you've got about 20 words and a whole thing.
Yeah, I understand, but, you know, people volunteer this stuff and, um, we'll get the translators.
Unfortunately, we don't have the time to do this.
So, uh, we will, uh, it's on the to-do list and we'll get a, um,
a text version of that done for, to have available on the website anyway.
So that's something that we definitely have around the to-to-do list.
And we're also going to see how we can guess, uh,
mumble so it becomes accessible or how we can work around it so it can become accessible.
Unfortunately, that issue only became apparent during the show.
So, uh, we're already locked and, and, and going before we could do anything about it, but, um,
there, I have been looking around for alternatives.
Unfortunately, there's, and I was trying to think of the wording curses.
I see no reason why you couldn't have an incursus version of mumble.
But the mumble developers are games developers and they are, they assume that you are,
have vision and have all of you and that you have complete control of
dexterity and everything. Otherwise, you can be playing the games.
The side effect that we find mumble so useful as a tool for, uh, hosting and, and talking to
communities is a side effect. So, their goal is to focus on the gaming side.
That said, there is a Ruby program out there, which is a command line tool for, uh,
accessing mumble. Now, I've had a little bit of a look at that, but not a lot.
But what I really would like, and I said last year and year before,
is a command line version and failing that a, uh, incursus version of mumble to, um,
uh, you know, to be able to just join a stream and to talk, it shouldn't really be that difficult
to at least do the basic stuff. But I'll get maybe on on on the rest of the meetings.
He gave me a, uh, site that he was using, but I do think it's limited. Like, we, we,
earlier in the day to, uh, uh, uh, 20 connections. I'm not sure if we wasn't
heard to mean why this was so much more accessible, but, uh, you know, uh, probably you'd
compared to, uh, Google, uh, meetup. And I haven't done a meetup, so I don't know why, you know,
I'm sure there's probably, uh, stability issues from Google, this, this solves.
Uh, but, you know, I, I, I did ride back to them. I don't think, I don't think 20 connections
would be enough, uh, for the, uh, 24-hour show. And wow, you know, uh, I'm in the
position to say how great people are. You know, I, I was taking last year, you know, John
Newsteader, he, uh, bumped the connections for the 24-hour show to 100. And that was great.
Uh, to a server, because the virtual server that the PR client is, uh, mobile client is running on.
And, you know, I was saying, well, smoking somebody said there were 10,
and it's, well, it's probably too late to get ahold of John, because he's got to go in and
talk to his provider and say I need more connection. And thankfully, Kevin Washer didn't believe that,
because apparently, uh, he actually talked to John a couple months ago about this and John
probably, you know, you guys have going on, you know, and we got the whole server and everything,
and it's great we got that, but this is one little detail, John, I'm not going to forget.
And that Washer went on and about a new time today, he said, oh, yeah, we've got it fixed,
we've worked, we're up to 40 connections. Uh, so not to, uh, not to book, book,
book, art, podcast, but, uh, for, for the help, you know, and for other things,
definitely, I would like to not, uh, not to Kevin Washer. And, uh, for providing us with this
forum to talk on, uh, the, the whole and entire most server, I, I was a credit, uh,
John News Center at this time. And while we're thanking people, we need to thank, um,
AnanasTos.com, uh, Josh Kult, who is the admin over there, and he supports, he,
without AnanasTos.com, we wouldn't be able to have the HPR site or any of the HPR resources.
So now my little tutorial is basically about, uh, VPS that is running on one of the AnanasTos.com
servers. And then there I'm running, uh, uh, a VNC, you know, a headless X session.
So you've, uh, is everyone familiar with that or do any to explain a little bit more about that?
It's okay. Yeah, I think we're cool. I mean, in earlier, uh, this morning,
when he sent me all the stats, I think probably that it's gone wrong. I, uh, I've been, uh,
totally lost, but we've got an hour and 20 minutes to get through our 26 hour show. So I'm not
really worried about it. Okay, well, I'll continue on with the, uh, request I was given and, uh,
explain basically what's, um, what's happening on the VPS. So this could be a, it doesn't,
doesn't necessarily need to be a cool, fancy VPS like, uh, we happen to have, it could be a laptop
or something on the back end of a reliable, uh, internet connection, but the beauty of this is,
uh, we're running everything on the one machine. So you can treat everything as, uh, a similar
machine. So all I did really, well, get, get this point. Can you tell us which V and C are actually
running? Um, running B and C viewer as the client and tiger V and C is the server. So when I installed,
so we have this HPR VPS, which is running Fedora, essentially, and we normally use that to do
the transcoding. So we don't process anything on the HPR server itself, which is a large server,
and it's got a lot of additional scripts on there. So we have our own machine that's firewalled
off, and we pulled stuff down from the HPR server onto that machine, processed them, and then
send them back, um, again, using our own keys. So the keys are not stored on the VPS either,
uh, which is kind of, yeah, cool. So on that machine, it, uh, it was normally just processing,
uh, processing audio. So, um, when I set this up, it's kind of ground to a hold and, uh,
contacted Josh and, uh, within like a few hours, he was back to me and the machine had been upgraded,
the virtual machine had been upgraded, uh, four gigs of RAM, four processors, uh, everything
hunky-dory and all of a sudden, like, we have, uh, less than, less than five, six seconds lag
between me, um, me talking here and coming out of some of the live stream. So it's,
it's absolutely awesome. So this was before recording the, uh, what live show that you were making
these changes and, uh, yeah, I've been busy with this for about a month. So, uh, we had a lot of,
you've seen headless, there was an email thread going around about the headless server,
and Corba2, and Cloud2 helped me out with that, um, because I already had some, uh, ex stuff
running in there and some settings. And there was a few gotchas, um, about, uh, trying to get a
headless, sort of, headless server running. It actually just wouldn't work for me for ages and ages
and ages. And then I just followed the steps, which was essentially the exact same thing again,
and it worked, uh, clean me out of the box. The main issue that I had was, um, tunneling the
VNC connection. So what I did then was, um, to set the thing up in the first place, I, um,
just installed a, had VNC running and used the firewall to block is on all ports except my own.
And that way I, uh, was able to troubleshoot the connection and was able to get through
without a problem. And then once I had that working, then I knew I could, uh, then try tunneling
with the SSH and that worked also quite well. So, um, if people are familiar with remote desktop
in the Windows environment, this is essentially the same thing that VNC does. VNC is also available
for Windows. So it allows you to simply, um, go VNC and the IP address and then not a port,
but a, a session connection and then you, you get into that. So with system D, I had quite a
lot of issues because, again, not because there were system D issues, but because things had changed
and all the documentation I found on the web referred to, all the ways of doing this and not the
system D way of doing it. But as I said, during the community news, system D now is giving us a
standardized way so that a how-to on Fedora will be the same as a how-to on Debian in a few years.
They will all be based in system D and we will then get the benefits of doing that.
So, um, I have, uh, various different components are a nice cast server is the thing doing the
stream. So, uh, it's your install life cast. I don't know if I need to go into anything about that.
I can if people want me to. Let me just get up the configs with another half to kill anyway.
So, I miss something, Ken. Obviously there's a mumble server and I played myself
installing it locally and that's that's not hard. So, there's a mumble server somewhere.
Then you have your own VPS. So, I'll work, so I'll work back from the streams to the
mumble server if that's okay. It makes more, it actually makes more sense if you do it that way.
All right. Yeah, is that okay? Sure. Um, so we have the, we have a nice cast server running and, um,
the ice cast config is actually quite small. Um, it runs in the background. I've got a log path,
the log file as ISIS.log. And then within that, it's, it's basically an XML file, stream,
hack a public radio, genre, and then, um, basically it pays. It's got a port and then a password for,
administration, but basically that's it. Um, well, actually it doesn't make any sense to do it that
way. I'll do it the other way. Sorry about that.
Well, I can't just see, you know, uh, I do everything thanks to you. Uh, uh, you know, any,
your own volume is true as HFS. And, uh, you know, such an incredible, incredible tool.
So, um, okay, you've got mumble running. We'll do it. We'll do it that way. You've got mumble running.
Or you've got mumble client installs or nothing different about that. So,
what I use is post audio, um, control. So P-A-C-T-R-L. And then there's a module in there that you can
make a sync, uh, and, and null sync. You with me so far are my losing people.
Well, if you have false audio, uh, it's, it's not nearly as, uh, easy if you're, you're stuck on, uh,
okay, about 50. I'm talking, I'm given a explanation of what's on the DPS. So,
I have what I have. So, pulse audio is installed. And then, um, I set up a sync that will,
it's just a place where audio goes to. And I actually have two of those. One for the, um,
for the input and one for the output. Oh, I see. You've got a slot set up where people can
spend and I had you stuff. Yeah. And the command to do that is P-A-C-T-L.
Pulse audio control. Space load-module. And then the module name, which is space module-null-sync
space. And then the sync underscore name equals HBR string. So, that creates a,
a, a dummy place like a dummy audio card where audio can go into the ether, basically.
So, within Mumble, I set, um, while I install the program, P-A-Volume control, which should be
installed in every distro, but isn't. And that allows you to control what goes into where
using Pulse Audio. Oh, I agree. If you have Pulse Audio. And I do. And, uh, most
suspicions do now. Uh, I'm on Debian, but I do have it. But, you know, if you've got
Pulse Audio, the solve so many problems, uh, because I do this nice, you know, I start an
application. It's, it's pulling or listening or broadcasting from the wrong, uh, device. So,
you know, uh, Pulse Audio fixes all that. Okay. So, then the, the next thing is, um, so
Mumble was configured to use Pulse Audio. And then, um, within Pulse Audio, I configure it so that
the Mumble stream goes to this, uh, uh, it goes to this sync. Yeah. And then I use, uh,
two called dark ice, uh, which you can install quite easily. And the only thing you need to change
in there is in the input settings, and you go Pulse Audio Source Name equals HPR Stream. Monitor.
So, what that does is, anything, uh, that goes into that HPR Stream, which is a, a null,
a null sync from Pulse Audio is picked up by dark ice. And then it's, so that's the input for
dark ice. And the output from dark ice goes into the ice cast two section, which is, uh, um,
the Mumble into Stream.org with the name of HPR Live event and the URL and the podcast and whatever,
with the server IP address and port number. And you with me so far? Yeah, this is a bit I
didn't follow, so this is all good stuff. Okay, so, um, the configuration of that, I'll, I can,
I'll take the passwords I was going to put it into the, uh, into the show notes. So, um,
um, dark ice now is hearing the output from Mumble via the, uh, this null device that you created,
is, uh, and the null device has to be called HPR Stream. That was the stream underscore name and
that's the key. And then it pulls that in and then it pushes us out to icecast, uh, to stream.org.
And then icecast config, it's a fairly simple config as well. It's just got a stream.org thing.
And then it's, uh, it plays it. Um, and it's got a password on the, and those passwords need to
match. It's, and then after that, it's just, uh, people connect to the stream and, and that's it,
job done. Oh, come on. So the only other, uh, the only other thing that was a bit tricky and the
dark ice config was the, the sample bit rate. I used org everywhere and to end. So you're,
you need to make sure that your dark ice config and your ISIS config, uh, or sorry, your dark ice
and your icecast config match up. So the sample rate I picked that worked, uh, was 4400,
16 bits per second, uh, two channels stereo. For some reason, I, I wanted it as a model,
but for some reason, it would only work with stereo. So fine, stereo is. And, um, and those then
matched what I had in my icecast config, uh, as well. Well, the icecast wasn't actually that
concerned. It just wanted to know the icecast config is fairly simple. The number of clients,
the Q size, the connection timeout, um, the authentication for the source password, um, which is
obviously the same one that dark ice uses. And then the port and the stream name, which I've
set up as a relay for some reason, but it works. So I didn't bother too much about that.
So then I got a little bit adventurous and I decided, well, if I've got this, um, VPS running,
what I could do is have a screen session, uh, or I could also pipe in,
it's create another sync. And then use that to play music on the HBR, in the screen session on
the VPS. And then I wonder, would that be picked up? And of course, if you, if you connect to the, um,
um, and of course, if you do that, then you will hear this. Actually, you won't, because
it failed to initialize audio. Well, live events, but what, what it means is then you can have an
impulse, uh, audio device as well, into pulse audio. And that's picked up by mumble or it's picked
up by the entire thing. And it's piped into the, uh, mumble channel, which is then picked up by
the output device and sent down to dargais and from dargais into ice cast.
Yeah, sorry about that, uh, uh, can, uh, kind of dropped out there a little and
slowing around in my head. So, uh, I'll probably make another hour and, uh, 10 minutes,
till the end of the normal podcast. And after that is the baby, uh, of, uh, Marcus shows up
to, to, to, to be, uh, in cast. Two. Yeah. I've heard you talk to your kids, uh, uh, you can't
run them off yet. Uh, maybe you want to do that before you get too crazy.
Sorry, what are you saying? I've already, you want me to bring on the kids?
Um, did you do that already? Yeah, I think you did that voluntarily.
They were on for quite a while, 50. You really need to go to sleep, dude.
I, I really probably sure it. But, you know, I would feel better about that if some other
folks might jump in and, uh, carried the podcast for another hour.
That would be a, that would be nice, yeah.
It was interesting your comment, uh, can about, um, mumble being primarily, um, for gaming.
And I had read that in the past. And the thought it struck me as, would we see something mumble
like coming from WebRTC, um, I played around with some of the, the JIT or JIT.si and, um,
various other applications and shows potential. Um, but nowhere near as sophisticated as,
of course, is what mumble does. Well, see, that's the problem, Chuck the Lord. Uh, if I'm
pronouncing your name right now, I'm sorry if I'm not, um, mumble like team speak as I understand it
was originally developed as a proprietary project, uh, for people who are in, in games to talk to each
other. And, uh, if it's proprietary, I can't understand why there's such a huge, uh, QT code base
in, uh, mumble, but unfortunately that, that QT code base keeps a lot of people from jumping in
and participating. Yeah, that was a major pity. I would, um, I would like to get that
resolved, uh, going forward, to be honest with you. Well, I was a Trent, Trenton, you know, he suggested
that one website, not all Mac, but it was, it was like you could only, uh, support eight contributors
at once. So I didn't think that was very realistic. Yeah, we don't need to solve it now on the show.
Well, they do want to go back to that jitsy question because, um, during the, uh, I'm just
pasted into the link there, uh, HPR coverage from fostom 2014 part five, which was episode 14 five
four. I did get a chance to interview some xmmp real-time lounge people. And one of those people
was, um, Emil Evolve, who was a, um, who's part of the jitsy team. Are you familiar with the project
at all? Anyone? Yeah. Played around with jitsy. Yeah. And they're doing some very interesting stuff
with avi and chat communications over the zip protocol. You know, if you're familiar with, uh,
zip communication from days of your and jabber and icq and windows live and Yahoo and formerly
google talk. Uh, so that's a free open source, um, implementation. I think that's also based on, uh,
WebRTC, you know, from the correct, you come up with a mistake. Yeah. It seems like you've been hiding
your light under a bushel until the end of the weekend. So how's that? Well, just, you, uh, this
particular interview, you know, it seems like, uh, well, I'm sure about next year, but, uh, you know,
it seems like maybe something's been parked for a while. Maybe my, uh, gross, uh,
this interpretation. No, it was, it was released back in January, uh, 20, 27th of February,
2014. So there's a whole series of interviews there. And they're also, they're all quite short.
I mean, a talk to open office, elastic search, uh, lever office in that. But the jitsy thing was quite,
yeah, the old thing was, was quite interesting and I'm wondering if that might be the way to go.
If you check out, um, it's interesting just to try it out, jit.si. That's from memories. I hope I'm
right. Um, and that is a video conferencing WebRTC. So multi-party video conferencing, um, solution,
because they have the backend server for this. And this is a routed video solution. So we're not
putting huge horse, you don't require huge horse bar on that video conferencing server. So you
could do audio and video in, in WebRTC. That would be, uh, interesting to play with. I played with it
a little bit. Yeah, something like that would definitely be the, get us around this problem,
I think, because if you have a, a browser that's accessible and is able to play this, these videos,
well, you don't even need the video format, just the audio format, then we, you know,
everybody just plugs into that and then we stream that from summer or from multiple places and
it gives us the, the ability to be redundant as well. With an access, from an accessibility point
of view, perhaps it's, um, it's, it's quite good. No, like accessibility expert, but I'm assuming
browsers are, are, uh, pretty good at that sort of thing. We would hope so. So this is definitely
something that's on the list now because, um, uh, I would not have been promoting a solution, um,
there was an accessible, if I hadn't. And, uh, coming up on, I guess the last announcement, but, uh,
yeah, accessibility, please take the, uh, forefront on that because I am probably not the best
judge, uh, right now, uh, well, my, my screens are really fuzzy. So, uh, you know, please jump in and,
once we're done, unless there's a huge aftercast, uh, I am going to take the opportunity to, uh,
go to bed and, uh, make myself unconscious.
Oh, good for you. Sleep well.
Yep. Um, do I detect an Irish accent over there?
Oh, yes, yes, yes. Um, uh, I, I'm from Northern Ireland.
Do I know your people?
I would, I would doubt it. Now, I, uh, I've lived a long time, many years, um, outside
Northern Ireland. So, um, I'm living, I live in Hungary at the moment.
I'm very good. Are you, uh, going to be able to make it across the false timer now?
Too far. No, a bit too far for me, but, uh, I would love to do that sometime and some of the guys on
the, uh, canoe social, the fediverse, we've been talking with it, um, kind of trying to bum over
how we could get together as a few of us are discussing that. Yeah, it's a good time to say
something about how Ken's always said, you know, if anybody came to look at you, you, you know,
through a sociational Ken, we would get on all kinds of lists.
Yeah, that's true. Um, and it's probably a good time now to welcome him in the second to last,
time zone. And that is America's Samoa, Midway Art Hall, and Pongo, Bogo, Pogo, Pogo.
Happy New Year to all of those one more hour to go, and then we can put 5150 to bed.
So, uh, please do that, that, that, that's my goal.
What was the, uh, what was that website that you were talking about, the new social?
Yeah, it was, as, um, a federation of, uh, what would have been status net in the past now
called the new social. So it was quite a few of us there. Yeah.
Glonkaryon, Karyon. And I tried to encourage a few of them to come on over here, and I saw them
popping in and out just to get a few people on. We thought we could meet up, but apparently not,
apparently I'm the only one that made it. I'm glad you did. Um, how's that taken off? I used to use,
identical quite a lot. And then, um, you know, they switched to Pompayon, they already fragmented
community seemed to dissipate. Yes, well, that's, that's always, always the problem, you know, with
this increased fragmentation. And I'd like, all of them have got their merits, you know, the red
matrix and, um, uh, they aspirate all these different things. I just wish we could federate
them together. But the one that seems to be the most lively or the one that I participate most in
is, is, uh, the GNU social. So that's, uh, quitter.se or quitter.no or frag dev or load average or
there's a whole load of, of large instances. And then there, of course, I personally hosted
instances as well. Yeah, we did have a show this year on how to set up your own, uh, server. And I,
and I do, it's something that I would like to do. I really like to have that, but
it seems like a knoll for a lot of work. And, you know, like setting up your own email server,
technically, it's possible, but you really don't want to be doing it. You know,
is that correct or? No, I don't think for, for GNU social, for a man of your skills can
set an app for them, but it would be a bit of a laugh, really.
No, no, no, no, no, you completely underestimate my, my, my overestimate my skills.
No, lots of, there's lots of personally run instances now and both that's the kind of,
the spirit of the thing that there's a few big ones. The quitter.sse is a very large one.
But the unactive community, we talk about HPR there. Some of the people, um, like, uh,
Andrew McNally have, uh, contributed, uh, on my, on my to do list to contribute. Um,
so I, I, I, I will be doing that at some point because I have listened to many HPR episodes
and it's time to give back a little. That's it. Now that it's up on the website, you know,
you have to, uh, you do have, if you listen one show a year, that's always.
But the debut, a good one there will be just, um, you know, even if it is as simple as
have to get installed GNU social or whatever it is now. Um, if I'm in a show saying,
this is how easy it is to install. You do this, this, this, this, and this and then your life.
That will be a good show. Yeah. Well, what was that of is that a few of us would get together and,
maybe discuss something like that or, or, or any days of tech, you know, so we had
considered this and kicked around a few ideas. But I have to get my finger out. And then,
a certain, um, the love bug has recorded an HPR episode. I'm just going to humiliate him here.
That he has recorded it, but not edited it. So get your finger out, Dave. Yeah.
Yeah, I have a few of those myself. So what's, uh, what's life like in hungry as far as, uh,
tech goals as far as life goes? Well, I guess the, the biggest tech news was the, um,
the supposed internet tax and the funeral that that created. So that was kind of a political
related, uh, technology story. Um, that caused, um, huge fear, floor in, in back in November.
Some of them died down now. Did that get dropped? Well, it, it seems to be. I think the
government, um, positioned it as, uh, they were going to, um, uh, seek responses from
interested parties. But I, I think probably they just, uh, put it away in the back burner because
it was, uh, highly unpopular and they had a highly motivated and mobile, um, group of people
that couldn't be asked to vote before, but were asked to go on the street.
And that, that actually, my friend, sums up the internet for you.
Well, yeah, at least they went on the street, which is a, which is a good step, but, uh,
can't be asked of all, so then you have no right to complain.
Well, yeah, it's like, it's kind of like don't, don't take my torrents away from me or you know,
you could pick your whatever, whatever, but, uh, you try, try interfering with people's internet,
that's, that's dangerous stuff. Speaking of taking people's votes away, um, you're from the north,
so did you, do you can still vote in UK elections, I guess? Well, I could, but I, but I don't live
there. Like I haven't lived in, in, uh, in our, for a long time. So, um, I, I guess like you,
in the Netherlands, I can, I can vote in local elections, I can vote in EU elections, but I can't
vote in national elections here. Yeah, um, I have, uh, funny thing with the republic is the,
you take your vote away once you leave, once you leave outside of the country, so you're no longer
allowed to vote. So, yes, not very pleasant. Well, that's, that's a, that's a bizarre situation,
so you can't vote in a, in a national election in the Netherlands, um, and you can't vote in
the Republic of Ireland, so you're kind of, hmm, true voters. And it, I don't think it's an issue
for most Irish people because, uh, because Irish people can vote in UK elections. And, you know,
the majority of people, well, yeah, I'm going to go into America, you're not going to be able to
vote over there because, you know, you're not registered anyway, or you're, you know, you keep
in a low profile. And so you're officially resident in Ireland, so you could technically vote
there. And a lot of other people immigrate to the UK where, um, the census is based,
UK voting census is based on the 1800, um, census at which time the whole of the, uh,
island of Ireland was, was considered to be eligible to vote. And after, um, partition, then they,
um, the, the south has a reciprocal of arrangement with the UK. So it essentially stops it from
being a problem for anybody else. Yes, yes, well, it does solve that problem. I guess there is
such an enormous Irish community, um, within the UK now. So, Kim, I, I, uh, I don't know,
as an expat, um, it's, it's right word, but you still get to vote in Irish elections.
No, that's the point. In most EU countries, well, the EU countries, uh, have, have agreed to
this freedom of movement thing. So I can vote in local elections here in the Netherlands,
so I can vote for my local town council, I can vote in provincial elections, but I can't vote
for the national parliament in the Netherlands, but I can vote for a European election,
uh, for my local candidate in the European elections. So that all sounds very well and good.
And the logic behind that is because in nearly all other countries in the EU, um, people are
required to vote in their national elections based on their citizenship. So if you're a,
Italian citizen, you actually get fined if you don't vote in Italian elections, and you have
to do that remotely. Now, in Ireland, traditionally, I understand where it came from because the
started issuing passports to as many people as possible. And there are more Irish citizens than
there are, there are, I think three or four times, there's a huge number of people outside of
Ireland who have a passport, and they don't want those people all of a sudden deciding to vote
on local issues. So they took the vote away. Now, I'm interested and probably outside your
problems, where would you have stood on Scottish units had you had to vote? On the sideline.
Well, I think I think it would have been interesting as an interesting political thing.
I think both sides were saying a lot of, I have no issue. It's first start. It doesn't matter to
me, one way or the other. We're all, my view is we're all EU citizens and we should, we should
actually all be global citizens, I guess, and act responsibly towards each other, but, you know, come by.
But from a Scottish point of view, I think it brought up a lot of interesting stuff. I mean,
you could have had a situation where if you're, if you're driving to the Republic from the Netherlands,
you would go through the Euro into the pound up to the Euro as you go to Scotland,
take the ferry over to Northern Ireland, back to the pound, take the, take the, you know,
back down to the Republic and you're using the Euro again. But to be honest, a lot of the stuff
about, oh, you'll have to reapply to go into the EU. That was complete, ford, to be honest,
because they're already EU citizens, so you can't just take citizenship away from five,
five million people, you know. But what will be more important and will be more
interesting is the UK referendum on entry into the EU and that will have severe impacts on everybody.
Well, I think finished to the EU in the United States as far reaching repercussions.
From the point of view of Ireland, if the EU, if the UK leaves the EU, then Ireland has
50% of its exports going to the UK. And the other half is going to the EU and they're in
Ireland's in the, in the Euro and that will be very, very strange. Then there will be this border
and the border will be back. So yeah, we will be odd.
Well, this is something to talk about if they, if there had been discussion appearance, you know,
most of the offshore oils offshore of Scotland, we're getting the same situation we have if I rack,
you know, they're all the sudden the, the, the, the brits have no money at all.
They still retain all the guns, so you'd have to figure that out.
So what do you do for a living? Or is that too personal?
I am a computer software consultant and a farmer. I thought everybody knew that.
I'm talking all of them. I'm an engineer. So what type of engineer?
Well, an electronic engineer. So I don't particularly want to go into who I work for,
but I'm an electronic engineer. Yeah, uh, you know, Ken, if you scroll back about an hour before
you jumped in, we had a rather spirit conversation about Montana.
Yeah, I'll hear it on the, uh, I'll hear it on the thing on the stream.
Yeah, I'm sorry. Since I came back this afternoon, I have not been particularly useful
updating the, uh, the pad or my own schedule. I'm sorry.
No, I'm doing this. That's the time you wouldn't expect you to take responsibility for the whole lot.
So, uh, yeah, I only a few more months.
I never done and I can start posting. I have the third show ready to, I just, just ready to convert it now
and then we'll have the Monday show ready and then we're good to go.
Oh, wait, 45, 45 minutes and we can drop it all in Marcus's lap.
Go ahead, Chuck. Just just thinking, you encode HBR to Speaks CodeX.
I know the Opus CodeX. Anybody have any ways that with you or just watch your thoughts.
Um, my thoughts are, yes, we could encode to Opus.
Uh, I actually have an episode written in, uh, in the note pad on the, on this subject.
The, from the point of view of HBR, the reason we do Speaks is,
Speaks was the codeX was out at the time and a lot of people have org.
They support for audio players for, uh, Opus is not there in physical hardware audio players yet.
So, therefore, we would need to maintain an org stream.
Uh, we also need to maintain the MP3 stream because for, uh, freedom-hating devices.
And we have the Speaks stream for low bandwidth users who wanted that.
But then it becomes, well, we have Opus, which is going to replace org and Speaks,
but we can't replace org because it's built into hardware devices.
And therefore, it's between Speaks and Opus.
So, what do you want to do?
Yes, but does any hardware device support Speaks?
No, but anybody who would be on a low bandwidth connection,
uh, that could download Speaks.
Well, there are, yeah, but Speaks is, uh, is a, is a non-format, so it should be played by anything
that's able to play, uh, in theory. To be honest, I think on the three or four people that
ever download the streams, and I suspect quite a lot of them are me testing it.
Yeah, Opus is very good, you know, we have a, uh, sort of, uh, a cast of our own.
Um, and we encode to Opus. I don't, again, I don't think people downloaded.
Um, but it, it's amazing quality for the, for the size of the file.
Absolutely astounding.
Yeah, we have a, we do have a situation where we're, you know, we've got
half a half a terabyte of files in only a particular format.
So, if we were to do that, then we're, you know, going with cap and hand back to,
and on the souls to again, to Josh, can we have a more disbased approach? Another format,
Opus. Well, while we're talking about the end of this year, and the speaking
chocolate war, if dude man who was, uh, primary on, uh, debt and stuff, it
worked, he just hear me right now. He would probably have a coronary, because
what I've been doing the last couple of days as a bachelor in, you know, in my house and,
you know, I am, I am certainly going to die from, uh, you know, uh,
vegetable problems and scurvy and all that. But since I have this thing set up, I, uh,
I bought a, uh, spiral cam from, uh, uh, Kroger, which is a, you know, you guys won't know that,
but it's, it's a local grocery concern. It, it's not very good. Uh, it doesn't give me the
possibility when, when I do get hungry, I just reach my hand in and, uh, graphical scrolls,
from the, uh, you know, from the spiral cut hand. And I, you know, today I didn't have much time
to do anything else. So this, this is my dinner tonight. And, uh, you know, I, I, I, I welcome any
criticism because this is, this is not a good, this is not a good way to live. But, uh, you know,
doing, doing, doing without any kind of vegetation and, uh, just, uh,
ripping pieces off of a peg is not a good thing.
Yeah, Choke, what, you mentioned a podcast. What's, what podcast is that?
Oh, we do a, a, a little minority podcast called the Duffercast, um, which is basically just
having a laugh, um, amongst a few of us that have met up on the Fediverse. The Duffercast,
God, what else has I heard that? Can you post a URL for that on the ladder to the show note?
Sure, sure. With Duffercast.org. Duffercast.org, this is what the, uh, what do you talk about over there?
Half Danish, half cowboy. King Charles Gustav, trusty testicles. I'm talking about shite tonight.
I'm talking absolute shite tonight. Pretty good.
I, you, you, you, you're discovering if you, if you like nonsense, there's a lot of nonsense.
Um, there's a bit of a tacky angle to it. Um, there's a bit of reminiscing about, um, old technical
things. Uh, to get on the show, you have to be over 40. So if you're not over, over 40, you're not
on the show. That's discrimination, my friend. Yep. Unfortunately, I'm, uh, I'm a little
frequency joy. From the script, it sounds like a golfing podcast almost.
Well, maybe, maybe United States, Duffer tends to be used for, uh, the golfing, uh,
meaning that, um, Duffer is kind of, um, how do we describe it? I know you're bumbling idiot,
but we're, we're, we're, we're, we're poking phone at ourselves.
In that case, I definitely should try to get into it.
Insious is, uh, also part of this. He's, uh, his contributor here as well.
Yes, and McNally, and, uh, the love boat. Yep.
Is you look like, uh, Samuel Beckett or somewhere there?
There's no exact, exactly my real photo. I don't quite look like that yet.
That was classic. Very, very, very good.
Okay. Please go and have a listen. Anyway, I'll eventually own some kind of, you know,
talk absolute shite for the night. As if I could.
I think we need to maintain a list of, um, podcasts and stuff. You should put a,
a sample podcast into the stream, for sure. Take your best work.
No, what I thought about was, um, I don't know what, what, what, what would you guys think?
But, uh, well, we thought of like, reminiscent, do a special podcast just for HPR.
So it's only for HPR and just reminisce about old technology or our first technology.
Because you know, I go back to using TCP IP in the 1980s over radio. So, uh, a whole lot of
old crap we could talk about. Yeah, yeah, please do. That's right up our street.
Absolutely excellent. I like to, uh, get more podcasts.
I'm also quite interested in, uh, radio communications now. So, uh, more about that sort of stuff.
And I also want somebody to step up and do a introduction to electronics, um, segment,
you know, what's a resistor, what's a capacitor, you know, the basic ohms law, that, that whole shabang.
If nothing else, then a refresher course. Uh-huh. If there were only electronic engineers around,
no pressure, no pressure. Am I bill? Am I bill? Am I bill? C-progged.
Um, back off there, back off. How is, uh, how is, uh, purchasing Linux laptops in hungry?
Easy to do or not possible at all?
No, it's quite, it's quite actually easy to purchase a laptop with nothing installed.
Uh, I think they had some Dell, old Dell thing. And when actually when I bought it,
I thought I was buying a PC with no windows installed, but it came as an Ubuntu installed on it.
Um, so it wasn't that hard. So you see lots of them that are advertised with
free-dose installed. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I had in the Netherlands, I wanted to get a new laptop.
So, uh, but I'm making a short story long for if I can. There was a lovely little,
little, I have a very specific requirements. I want a keyboard with, uh, with the page up page
done and arrow keys on it. And I wanted to get a, and that was it pretty much. So I went to,
one of the shops and got a little, little novel thing that falls over. It had a touch screen and
everything, but it had, you couldn't install any other operating system on it than Windows 8.0.
No, it sounds like a challenge then. Oh, no, no, don't go into it. I, so I emailed the company,
Lenovo. Uh, well, first of all, I contacted, uh, Lenovo technical support in the Netherlands.
And they were, they surpassed the reputation of technical support. Technical support
help desks. People are, touch people are known to be rude in general. Um, people will say it's,
if you take a straw poll of people in the Netherlands, there will, touch people will say no,
they're direct. And all foreigners in my straw poll, 100%, I said, no, it's not direct. It's
simply been rude. Um, and these people took us to the limit date where they absolute, most rude
people, uh, on this planet, Lenovo technical support in the Netherlands. That said, one or two,
I call three times what two people were, didn't know one guy was okay, but there was one person
who was absolutely, uh, extremely rude, uh, on the phone and adamant, adamant that, um,
they fault was all mine and that I was, what they had shipped was working correctly.
So I contacted the Lenovo support in the UK and we stepped through what I was trying to do,
installing a UEFI on it and they said, yes, this, you know, the warning that as soon as you
installed another operation system, we're not supporting the operation system, we'll continue
to support the hardware. Yes, except that. Okay, that's fine. But no, the laptop should support it
and it doesn't. Okay, so that was fine. I had that in a piece of paper. I brought it back to the
place where I bought it from and those guys, you know, one of these, it was medium architecturally
in the Netherlands and I was expecting a big ring roll from them, but I explained it to them
and the guys who gone, I said, here's three USB disks. One has got, uh, one has got Windows 90,
Windows 8.1 and the other's got Fedora and the other's got Ubuntu and, uh, here's my laptop,
my Dell laptop and you can see that it's booting UEFI and you see it's not booting these on.
So they said, hey, can we borrow those and they went over to their own laptops, booted UEFI and
go, yep, yep, mine boots, mine boots, mine boots. And then, um, yep, they sent it back to Lenovo
and Lenovo, uh, returned it, saying their battery, they replaced the battery, congratulations,
but it's still looking booted. And then, uh, I eventually got onto, um, Lenovo customer support
and I'll just read what they said. So the UK said, the Lenovo UK does not restrict anything
on the unit, you can install any operating system on the unit. However, we only support the original
configuration of the unit. If you provide, need any thing, please contact us. So I sent, um,
Ms. Bunder planner, who is the, uh, who is the, uh, pure person for Lenovo. And I said,
I'm producing a podcast and associate's blog with my experiences related to the Lenovo
IdeaPad Flex10. And in order to ensure the accuracy of my report, I would like to confirm
the following, uh, the valid is the validity of the following statement. Lenovo have shipped
the IdeaPad Flex10 without the ability to boot other operating systems,
restricting the order to running only the installed Windows 8.0 operating system.
To which they supplied, uh, Dear Ken, I've followed up with your inquiry and I can share the
following with you the first wave of the CPU model from Intel can only support Windows.
This is not a Lenovo design. All our products of this waves were not able to support anything
except Windows OS. After this wave, the Flex10 will support other operating systems.
So that's the official word from Lenovo. So, um, that was enough to get me my money back from
MediaMarked. And then I decided, well, affect this, we need to put our money where our mouth is
and if we're buying laptops, they must be with Linux installed. And then I checked how many laptops.
So I found a laptop in there and I said in the, in the shop, I said, I want to install Linux on this
will you support it just to know. So they contacted, um, uh, they contacted the company and said,
no, we won't, but you can buy another hard disk, swap that hard disk out and bring it back in.
So I said, no, I'm only going to buy laptops with Linux on it. And after contacting
every single supplier, only one which was Dell was able to sell me a laptop with Windows on it.
Or with Linux on it. A sad story. Yes, eventually I was able to get a laptop with
free DOS from Germany, which meant from ASER, which meant I had to get a English keyboard.
And the laptop is designed such that everything is mounted onto the base of the keyboard.
So I had to take this laptop apart, take everything out, disassemble it completely, the screen,
the hard disk, everything, take it out, put it in the new keyboard base and screw everything
back to the base of the laptop. So it was a complete, I've done a video on it. It's not as scary
as it sounds, but it was a complete saga. And the laptop is brilliant except for the fact that
the keyboard is crap. Oh, it's brutal. So that was a Dell that you ended up with?
No, no, no, it's an ASER. So a major trouble. And the Dell is nice, but it doesn't have any arrow keys
for a start. And secondly, I'm not going to shell out four grand for the, you know, big,
essentially the laptop, the cell, Google employees. I'm surprised that you couldn't go into
media mart. If I'm in the media mart here, I can guarantee you the base, I don't know,
20% of the laptops would have free dust. It's very common here.
It could be related to the levels of code piracy on code, you know, the ability for,
yeah, I don't know, maybe there's not enough coverage most of the laptops.
Maybe they expect people to pirate their copy as what I'm trying to say.
Or the sensitivity to price, this being a little bit further east.
They're looking for lower prices, less specs. You know, a lot of very, very low-spec computers are
for sale here. Yeah, yeah. Exactly. But then, maybe on a cheap skate, I don't mind using a low-spec
computer. What does it matter? There's nothing wrong with this laptop, aside from the keyboard,
to be honest with you. And it's running UEFI and my hard disk is encrypted and everything works.
And to be honest, I had a, my Dell laptop and work I had a Ubuntu on that and the whole thing just
of a day, just the whole thing just stopped working. Any X applications were running, you could see
the processes running, but they weren't appearing on the screen and you couldn't restart them.
And it was a resistant problem. So I ended up for the last week running everything on the
small little dinky laptop with two big monitors plugged in via the HDMI connection on us.
Sorry, one big monitor with the HDMI connection on us. And you know, a real keyboard and a real mouse.
And to be honest, the thing is flying. I'm really, really happy, aside from the crappy keyboard.
Well, I had the keyboard problem as well. I wanted to buy an English keyboard, but they said,
okay, that'll be whatever, 10,000 foreign's more. So no, I'll just pretend it's English. So I have
a Hungarian keyboard on this computer and I just pretend my fingers know where the keys are.
But to be honest, after the saga of changing the keyboard, I was very close to getting some
tipex and just tipexing the letters over, you know, I think it would be cool. I don't know why
somebody doesn't, you know, just get a, that you can buy a transparent film of stickers,
that you can stick onto a keyboard. And that would be the problem solved for the majority of people.
Well, you're actually right because there's a lot of people typing in multiple languages.
Have you ever seen a keyboard that's in in Hebrew? You know, there's multiple or Russian keyboard.
There's multiple layers. People want to type in English and Russian.
Yeah, exactly. So for me, I would have been, I would have been happy, you know, just
sticking on the letters, but I thought, well, I'm going to do this as an exercise for HPR as a show
sometimes. And that was as good a time as I know that we're struggling for content here at the end
of 26 hours. So yeah, but you know, when you look at the keyboard, the actual keys are just stuck
on bits of plastic. Anyway, I, I can't imagine it would be that much, that rocket science just to
get a transfer and peel off the stickers. The kids do have those sticker things that you can buy
to decorate Christmas cards and stuff, you know, gold letters. So I was very, very close to just,
you know, sticking them on and be dormant. Well, I just pretend, just pretend that it's, you know,
the hash keys, where the hash keys. Do you still use the pound sign UK keyboard? Have you switched
to the US dollar sign? No, I always, I always use a US. I always, always have used a US, so my
fingers know where the, where the things are. Yeah, and when I did, where in Ireland, we used,
had the UK keyboard for, for the pound. Then that was it back in the day of the panel.
The other interesting thing about keyboards is they're such filthy things.
A laptop keyboard is, must be disgustingly, filthy dirty.
Absolutely, I, every day of work, I take my keyboard and turn it upside down and shake it.
I just found out yesterday that, you know, everybody in the office thinks I'm just
got all this rage during the day, have these several rage fits. No, I just want to clean my keyboard.
Yes, I lost one hero in there somewhere. Yeah, very good. Well, you have a, a sandwich or something.
Well, yes, or an orange juice or something gets in there and you end up with sticky keys. No fun.
One of their chops in work just spilled a coffee over his Dell, you know,
you know, that expensive Dell one that they have to, oh, I can't think of the high-end laptop.
I'm just going to still hold him up. So, I must say, a lot of the fun I've had is playing with
old computers, getting various Linux, you know, puppy Linux or whatever, and you can get it to run
on any old crap hardware. And it's giving me great pleasure over the years to just play with these things.
Yeah, I've done a bit of that actually. I need to do a little bit more. My daughter's laptop
it has, the screen is just certainly stopped working. It comes on bright and then just stops.
I wonder, do I need to take the thing apart? I also have a Chromebook here. It's one of the C7s,
the original ones. And it's got that nice keyboard on as well. It's got a hard disk, a lot of RAM.
Well, the image on it is, it's got that blue image from Google Chrome. And she was using
her for ages. And then one of her friends came in and you know, there's a 22nd wait
where it goes, are you sure you don't want to go into Chrome? And then one of her friends came in
and hit the space key, which reset the laptop back to Google Chrome, wiping out all her work
for the last two months, all her pictures and everything. So it was very, very, very sad day, that day.
Oh, dear, dear, dear. Oh, there's a, oh, I should not say, I was listening to bad voltage and I
infected. Uh, I didn't realize what they're talking about, but they're, they're set of scripts
that you can run in Chromium to do a allow you a Chrome OS that allows you, you know, without
overlaying ChromOS with a whole new Ubuntu operating system, but you're, you're using the kernel
and you can actually access, uh, you know, normal, uh, uh, Linux applications in Chromium.
Yeah, that's, that's correct. And that's what we did. Um, but there's burnt into the bias of the
machine is, uh, in, in later versions, in earlier versions and later versions, there's a physical
switch that you can do either dip switch, a physical switch or a application that you can run that
will turn it off so that it doesn't prompt you to go into, um, Chrome OS. But on this version of
ChromOS, you can go in and you can set it so that it will boot by default into Ubuntu or
Carbuntu as it's called. And that runs Ubuntu and it uses the, uh, it copies over the, the kernel
from Chrome, Chrome OS, everything works, all the Wi-Fi, everything works fine. And that's fine,
but there is one limitation and that's at the beginning as the machine boots up. It gives you
a warning that is you're running in developer mode. And if you want to get rid of that warning,
you need to hold down control and D to go into developer mode or you need to wait 20 seconds.
So my daughter was well used to either waiting or pressing control D and going into her
Linux environment. But one of her friends comes over and they know all about computers and they
want to go on to YouTube and so they saw this message. You're in developer mode, um, to return
out of developer mode, press the space key. So all they read is, and this isn't Dutch, they're reading,
and is they see press the space key and they press the space key and that then does a complete
factory reset of the laptop, restoring it right back to the original Chrome, um, verified
bootchain, wiping out all her system essentially. So then we stopped using a Chrome boot after that
and I switched her over to an old HP laptop, which she was using quite a lot and then the screen
just stopped working on that. Well, I mean, this has been my point. You can buy. Yeah, everybody says,
well, you can buy things for 200, 300 dollars for Chromebook, isn't it? You know, I can buy
a lot of the same size with a multi-core processor. No problem for what they want for Chromebook.
Basically, what I'm saying now to everyone is if you're, if you want to buy a Chromebook,
it's fine. You're buying a Chromebook. You're not buying a GNU Linux system. You're buying a
Linux system that runs Chrome, which is fine. Don't get it wrong. That's what you're doing. But if you
want to support the Linux operation system, then you need to buy a machine that has Linux on us,
or you need to buy a machine that you can put Linux on us that doesn't come with another
operation system. That's the only way that we will get more support for operation systems.
In fact, I think the here in the Netherlands, the whole situation as regards to guessing hardware
has actually gotten worse. There are more people running Ubuntu, running Linux, GNU Linux.
I see them everywhere. As I go through work, a lot of the contractors now are running Linux
on their machines. A lot of the engineers are running some of the machines. So we have more Linux
users, but they're still buying Windows machines and putting Linux on us. So it's time that we need to
say, right, I'm going to take the case, whatever that is, if it's a financial hit, or it's a
inconvenience hit like I took, or it's, it's some other hit where you write to the companies and say,
I want you to explain why you don't have a Linux operation system. I want you write to your
politician and you say, why can't I buy a operation system without Windows? Why is there a monopoly
here? You write to your monopolist commission, you ask why there's a monopoly in this market,
why you're not monitoring this. And you get off your arse, basically, and you do something about it.
Well said. Well said. And Johan V, this place to an HPR episode that Johan V created
maybe a couple of weeks ago on why to use Linux and he dispelled a few myths, but I think having
a delivered, having a Ubuntu or whatever delivered on some kind of laptops that would be a really,
really huge step forward. Absolutely. That was a brilliant episode. I was particularly
annealed that on the head. It's, I think it's a really, his episode personified how I feel about
Linux now. It's, it's not this wonderful thing that is bug free and more secure or whatever.
I mean, you just have to look as hard bleed and shell shock and all the rest of it to, to see that.
But if it's something that we want to run, we are now people who are earning livings
using this operating system or whatever. So we should be able to say the power of the book,
if you live in a capitalist country, then let capitalism work its course and you say, as a consumer,
I'm not going to take, I'm not going to purchase your product unless it comes with what I want.
I'm not going to purchase your phone unless I'm able to get access to the bias.
Very simple. We have to, you can't be, companies will do whatever it is that will sell their
stuff. They don't care. If you ask for it, they will sell it. If enough people ask for it,
they will sell it to you. It's as simple as that. That's why Linux has been shipped on servers and
not been shipped on laptops. That was a, that was a bit of a rant. Well said. Well said.
I actually need to come on to your show and do the ranting over there because I need to be
representing HPR here all the time. So I don't want to try to promote it. The HPR
New Year's show. So we're trying to do our bit. And if you've got a promo, by the way,
give it over to us and I want to put the promos for podcasts at the end of our shows.
So mix it up a little bit. We'll do. I had a similar problem with my generation one
Nexus tablet this week, Nexus 7 tablet. It was booting up and just giving it to the spinning
circles forever. So I tried a few things looking it up and cleared the cache and then nothing
would, nothing would work. It would just spin those circles and until it ran out of battery.
So I did a factory reset or went back to the factory image. But the problem was I lost a whole all
the kind of specific work specific things. I had a whole load of certificates.
So it took a while and trying to get into work by VPN to get certificates back onto it. Those are
right pain in the neck. Yeah, I can completely understand. That's why I store a lot of that stuff now
and then encrypted dig. Well, I have a encrypted disk that is under on the place. And I store
quite a lot of stuff now and get all my configuration files and stuff like that. Stuff that
the thing about my, well, not Linux, but I'm, yeah, let's talk about Linux.
The thing about Linux is when I install it, it just runs and runs and runs for years. So I don't
need to reinstall it. And then all of a sudden you reinstall and you realize there are 4000
applications that you use every day that have weird configuration settings that you need to
copy over. But I really would like a whole phone thing is bugging me, not having a good phone.
Well, there's alternatives coming. Here, here, people don't have access. But, you know, nothing
is very, very, how can you say, how can we put this? Nothing very well developed just or
Ubuntu phone might come early in the new year. Yeah, but they don't have the money to push it.
Firefox don't even have the money to push it the way they need to.
You know, Google were able to do it because they were able to push a free alternative
operation system onto people. And it was in people's interest. They had the code. It was a win-win
situation for everybody and the Google paid a lot of money for that. That's, you know, people
shouldn't underestimate the amount that's costing them doing the Android operation system.
Hello, perhaps I was a bit naive. I kind of had high hopes for Firefox OS. I saw web applications,
HTML5. It might open up a whole range of new things, but didn't really happen.
Yeah, I hope, I hope a will. I don't think it's over yet, but yeah, I really, that's really where I
wanted to go. And I have my hands on one of the, I've lost them last year, lovely little phone.
And I have been doing an audit of all the stuff that I use on my phones. And it's not
a lot. You know, it's it's fairly limited. It's fairly limited. What I want to be able to make
phone calls and you do my calendar and that sort of thing, all which could be within the bounds
of our phone. And it would be cool to be able to run that. It's pity they didn't work with Ubuntu
on that or Ubuntu didn't work with Firefox OS. You know, consolidate some of the work.
I wish we would follow some of the kind of principles in Linux. Have the the variety of
them. I want those managers. I want like open box. I don't want animations. That doesn't matter
to me, getting longer battery life. But to me that the applications I want, but not all this
way is bang zooming windows around. I don't care about that. Absolutely can agree with you more.
But I would, I couldn't, I also couldn't agree with you more on the fact that I don't hate
animations on stuff. I hate animations on stuff anyway. It's because like, look at me, look at me,
a beeping dishwasher or another thing that I can get annoyed at. But I need to finish a point.
But I couldn't agree with you more in that if people do want that, they should be able to turn it
on. That should be their right as well. You know, a variety of windows, a variety of
of customised however you want or, you know, a KDE for a phone or a non desktop or a non-pand
top for a phone. And isn't it horrific to think of all this hardware that's sitting in people's
drawers. Like, I've got just three feet away from it. There's a couple of Android phones and
in a drawer that could be used if they were software suitable, you know, to run on that old hardware.
Yeah, it's, and you know what's scary? I've got a phone that's nearly two years old. I
considered my new phone, right? And I can't run anything on already applications or are starting
to be grayed out on the Eftroid thing that you're not running Android, whatever, whatever, whatever.
And also, I'm Eftroid. Why? And unfortunately, I can't update the phone because it's lucky.
But I'm not going to make that mistake again. My next phone will be open, but I don't know which
way to go because there's no choice either. It's like you need to buy an open phone. The one-to-one
one sounds pretty okay. I think it's the closest thing now. Yeah, I wish there was better choices,
but it just isn't really. But hey, we can do some of it. We can get a little bit,
and it would hate to be locked into the Apple kind of world, because it's bad hardware. I think
that's crap people send. It's good hardware. It's just that I don't want to be locked into their,
their ecosystem to use the cliche. Yeah, yeah, I couldn't believe it anymore. I say you couldn't
agree with it too much. Stop agreeing with me. That's not good. Disagree. Disagree, yeah.
We had Nokia phones at work, and yeah, the choice of, this is Nokia or a PAM or not a PAM,
but a Raspberry. And when the iPhone's come in, she says, yeah, we can also offer you a iPhone.
No, that's okay. I'll just have a embarrassing card in these my own.
You sure you don't want? It's an Apple iPhone. Yeah, I know. Thanks.
Thanks, but no thanks.
I just resurrected Nokia, Nokia 5110, and it still works.
My wife has one of these old Nokia phones, but the battery in it lasts forever,
because she uses it to talk mostly, not like I do, but it was a very good phone with a very
long lasting battery. They never died, and you could drop them from God knows how high,
and they would never die. That was brilliant. It's such a pity what happened to that company in the end.
Especially they, with the N900 and the N800 before it, they had like,
they were so close to having a touch screen smartphone there, but because they wanted to keep
development separate from the mobile division, you know, the mobile guys would come in and
trance all over their thing. They never put a GSM chip in us, and then when the N900
came out, it was too late. So yeah, if in the big knife can look out, you know, yourself.
This sad, sad to think, I'm sure what are the people in Finland think of the situation with Nokia now?
We had a Nokia factory here in Hungary, and it's closed down. Nokia R&D here, I think, but I believe
closed down. Yeah, it's terrible. And it's not like this hole from the horizon, you know.
I think Ubuntu, Canonical, were very ambitious about their phone project, and they, yeah,
I don't know if that's going anywhere either. Now, which of them are the best? I would love to see
that success. Sorry, I should be going against what you're saying here, but no, yeah, I would love,
I would love to see them succeed. I would love to have another option, but I'm afraid.
It is not, it is not looking good. All is not well in the city of Denmark.
So how long has this ago now? Five minutes and we're done. I'll hang in there. My stomach's
beginning to rumble. I have to maintain my swell to figure you understand. I do. It's a requirement.
So do you have any Irish pubs over there that are worth mentioning or do you not do that one?
There are Irish pubs. There are Irish pubs in Budapest. No, actually, just reminded me, I'm thinking of
a BBC News article where they tried to find the most unusual Irish pubs or places with Irish pubs,
and there was one in Ulan Batur in Mongolia. Personally, in Macedonia, that's the weirdest
Irish pub I've found so far. Yeah, how so far is the word?
It was just weird because I came out of the hotel in Scopia, Small City, Macedonia, Southern Balkans,
and I'm going for a walk, just a walk around the city, and I come out of corner and find an Irish
pub in the middle of Scopia. Yeah, there's an Irish pub here in town, and it's like one of
these ones where you can go to buy an Irish pub.com and have them ship it over in the container.
It's just brutal. Yeah, it looks nothing like a pub in Belfast. It looks absolutely nothing like it.
Yeah, but to be honest, I don't know if you've read McCarty's bar at all, but as he says there,
when there's an Irish pub, an Irish pub doesn't need to look like an Irish pub to be an Irish pub,
you know what I mean? If the crack is there, good and well, if it's not, then you can
put as many leprechauns around the place and it'll still not be an Irish pub.
Yeah, well, a lot of pubs and foreign countries, that's what they think. They have to put
lots of signs on the wall and, oh, Nicknecks or whatever, you know, whatever they think an Irish
pub looks like. They've got a plaster in it. Exactly. The best Irish pub in Amsterdam is
McDonald's, and yeah, it just looks like a, yeah, it's got Irish flag outside to give people a hint,
you know what I'm saying? Other than that, it's pretty much designed like a Dutch bar, so
I don't know. Right, we're getting close to the end of this. My friends, let me just connect to
the machine and restart the streams. 50 here, you awake? You whoo, 50? I think we lost 50 and 50
at the end. Oh no, he's a mute. Okay, well, with that, ladies and gentlemen, 26 hours later,
as we welcome Baker Island and Holland Island into 2015, welcoming the entire planet into the
new year. This is the end, my friend, the end. Thank you very much for joining the HPR show,
and I would just like to go down to the list of people that would like to thank,
first of all, for providing services on the mumble server. I'd like to thank
John Newsteader for doing that for us. Big help having the mumble they're available as a service
to the community. For providing the HPR VPS and for the HPR site and for all the upgrades and all
the support, I'd like to thank Josh Knapp from An Honesthost.com, and we do have a 15% discount
there for all HPR listeners, and I just read in the chat that there are quite a few people who
have got VPS services in there, and their experiences with Josh has been as good as mine.
I'd like to thank Kevin Wischer for all the work that he did setting up his stream, and if you want
more about them, go to linuxlogcast.com, and they also do a livestream service, and they have a
logcast where you can come on every month and ask questions. It's also a very good show.
Then I would like to thank Russ Woodman K5Tox for providing the Etherpad instance,
and putting that together for the last moment is really, really handy for doing all the scripts
and stuff. I would like to thank 5150 for making it through the show so far. It has been,
I haven't been able to get on because as long as I would have liked, because of the fact that
I need to work, I think the first 26 hours show that we did will happen to be at a weekend,
so everybody was all fun available, so I think we probably need to pair it down a little bit
next year if we're doing it down to maybe just 12 hours starting from 6 or 1 until 6 in the morning,
and then have a pre-show and after show if that works out. It just takes a little bit of
pressure off people. I would also like to thank my wife for putting up with the amount of hours
that I've been in here doing the stuff for HBO last month. It's been quite a lot of time
on setting up the stuff for the new year show and also doing the uploads, so mostly I would like
to thank everybody who contributed to the show this year and come on, and it's actually really
nice to know that when you put some event like this on, people do step up to the play,
they come in and they share their opinions on the chat and they do stuff, and I know I wasn't a
particular big supporter of putting on this event, but to be honest after listening on the stream
as a participant rather than a host, I really think it's something that does a value and we should
continue to do, albeit maybe a little bit less, just 12 hours instead of 26 hours is a bit madness.
And I would especially like to thank the people who contributed
HBO episodes last year. There were 261 episodes contributed last year, and that's a lot
of episodes, you know, you just, I said it before and I'll say it again, it takes a lot of shows
to keep HBO going, and we produce original content, and that's all we do.
I'd like to thank Dave Morris for stepping up to the plate this year, really, as helps me out
and all the loss with the internet archive stuff, with technical support, and taking over the
comments, and he's done a lot of work on making the community news, scripts there for making the
community news, something that we can just go and sit down and start talking about rather than
having to work an hour or two every Saturday beforehand to make that work through.
I would really also like to thank everybody, especially who has contributed shows and is contributing
shows. It has been, we do have a lot of shows, but the quality of shows this year has been
absolutely excellent, especially our first time hosts have come in with lots of new content and
stuff, and we've got a lot of great interviews from people, and I look forward to another great
year here on HBR, and with that I will thank you all for joining and tune in tomorrow
for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our
shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a
podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club, and it's part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
