Episode: 1056
Title: HPR1056: OggCamp 12 Day 1 Part 1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1056/hpr1056.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-17 18:03:56

---

Hello everybody this is Ken from here at Ogkamp12 and we're walking around the exhibition hall.
The first people we come to is the Linux Liverpool Linux user group.
How are you doing? Who are you and why are you here? I'm Bob Ham.
We're actually Liverpool Linux user group and Manchester free software here today.
Very good and what have you come to do? What do you hope to achieve here?
We're just kind of here to represent, I guess, the local community.
Liverpool Linux user group, we just have meetings and talk about Linux and whatnot and say we're Manchester free software.
We're Manchester free software though, we kind of campaign a bit more for free software, for the principles of free software.
And we're just kind of here to spread the word and make people aware of what we're doing and what we're up to.
Are you hoping to get some people to join your organisations?
Yeah, yeah, I mean we don't have any kind of, or certainly Liverpool lug.
We don't really have any kind of strict organisation as such.
It's just more kind of casual come along and be part of it if you want.
There's no designated members or anything like that.
And obviously the purpose is kind of just to, I guess, do things that people in the group are interested in and to share that with other people who might be interested.
And I guess that's the thing, to hold events that we're interested in and that other people can come along to if they're interested to it as well.
What type of events are there and there are many people come along?
Well, yeah, we have quite a few members, quite a few people come along.
But we have kind of monthly meetings where we hold talks usually.
We've had quite a variety of different speakers from the local area and further afield.
And that's, we have a social meeting every month as well in the pub.
Yes, yeah. And kind of, I guess this is really the odd campus.
I think probably our first kind of venture into something more than that.
But I hope it won't be the last.
Okay, great. I hope you have a good show and I'll talk to you later.
Okay, I'm here at the bite mark stand and I'm talking to Tim Dobson.
I Tim, I saw you here last year.
Yes, that's right. I've been to a number of years in a row now.
And it's a great event.
We're here to talk about hosting and all of that kind of thing.
But that's, you know, just part of the whole event.
It's a great event that we're very happy to be supporting because there's such a great community here.
In fact, it's one of my favourite events of the year that we go to because the community is just fantastic.
Kind of when people go out and have lunch or chat.
It's a very community feeling rather than, you know, some of the conferences where you're not quite sure whether you'll be welcome in a conversation.
That old camp, it's always kind of, yeah, just come along and we'll have a chat.
And that's one of the great things about the event.
And that's why we keep coming back and sponsoring.
You, I was just going to say that.
You are one of the major sponsors here and, you know, when you think of a company sponsoring an event,
do you imagine people with suit and ties coming down?
But I don't think you would fit into that category.
No, I mean, yes, yes.
We're not really a suit and ties company, to be honest.
I mean, we're not really a suit and ties company, to be honest.
And everybody kind of in the office wears shorts and sandals.
And so it's a very kind of community and open source focused company.
And that's why I'll camp such a kind of great mix, great match for us.
And I would like to be here.
Seriously, if you are considering hosting, I know we have our own sponsors here in Heckrup.
But for example, you might want to consider mosing on over to bitemark.co.duk.
Yeah, well, actually, that's an interesting kind of point.
Because we've, in one of the areas that I'm here working on is we do a lot of open source outreach.
And so a lot of open source projects come towards looking for sponsorship for their project.
And if you're kind of an open coming open source project, we already sponsor things like
xbmc, open street map, copper mine, PHP gallery.
And there's nothing, just give me drop me an email, Tim at bitemark.co.duk.
And the worst I can say is, I'm sorry, we can't do anything this time.
But you also should seriously look into their hosting.
It's quite reasonable and you get a good deal.
Okay, I've said it, are you happy now?
Yes, yes.
Okay, thanks.
Are you planning to attend any of the talks or any of that?
Or do you know or not yet?
Many of the talks, hopefully some good ones.
I'm not sure what's happening yet, but yes, I'm definitely planning to attend some talks.
Okay, cool.
Talk to you later.
Hi, this is Ken.
And we're coming to talk at the open rights group booth here at Ogcom12.
Hi, how are you doing?
Who are you?
What are you representing?
I'm Ryan Gendurby.
And as you alluded to, I'm representing the open rights group.
Okay, who and what are the open rights group?
The open rights group are a company organization that campaign on digital rights issues in the UK.
And we join up with other organizations that campaign on similar things in Europe.
And what sort of campaigns would you be doing?
Our main areas are in censorship, open data and free data.
And censorship, open data and privacy.
Okay.
And do you have any particular campaigns that you're running at the moment?
One of the recent ones was this mobile censorship report that we did.
It's actually very interesting if you start looking into that.
The types of websites that are blocked by default on mobile networks.
It varies by network, but it's.
And that's really a good thing for people that you're not accidentally stumbled upon some adult content as you're on the train.
Well, I'm all for that.
If you're the sort of parent that wants to protect your kids from that,
or if there's something that you don't want to see yourself, then absolutely you should have the option.
That's a service that mobile networks are providing arguably.
But the issue with it is that it shouldn't be on by default.
And not only that, but the sort of the opacity of the why things are blocked.
Because when it's on by default, you don't know what you're not seeing.
And that's a dangerous path to go down.
We feel.
You were mentioning earlier that some of the some religious organizations were.
Yeah.
People were finding that it wasn't just as you were saying, like sort of smug that gets blocked,
but sort of like church websites and things.
And again, that shows how like non-transparent the thing is,
because people just weren't really sure why these things were getting blocked.
And it was quite a problem.
And this is just done by default.
And nobody has really an option.
Is there any legislation that requires them to do this?
Not that I know of in the UK.
I think it's.
There are organizations that, you know, other company organizations that would seek to censor what by default,
what people are exposed to in the internet because the internet is a negative thing altogether perhaps.
Okay. And what are you hoping to achieve here by having a booth?
Spread the word about the organization and the work we do and hopefully sign up a few more members.
What do you get if you become a member?
Today only.
I've got some t-shirts from Orcon, which was a few months ago.
So you get a t-shirt from me.
And you also get sent to you through the post a copy of the IT crowd on DVD.
Okay. And how can people get involved if they're living abroad, for instance?
If you're living abroad, personally, I would strongly recommend that you get involved with things going on local to where you are.
Because as I said, there's organizations all across Europe.
Well, there's the FSF Europe. Of course, there's also the name of the network isn't coming to my mind right now.
But if you look on the work that was done against acted, that was a very much a pan European effort.
And there were groups along the same lines as the open rights group in different countries.
So they were campaigning against that.
And if you're further afield, probably your local lug would be able to join you up with organizations that sort of go into this whole digital rights space.
But if you want, if you were abroad and you want to support Oregon the UK, the mailing lists are very active.
You can get involved that way.
I think a big way that you could people could help out is reading, I mean, it sounds very bland, but reading government reports, reading green papers, keeping up to date with the next movement.
On various of these topics, because there's a lot of material and a lot of what people spend their time working at the Oregon office doing is just really getting to grips with legislation at the local level, at the national level, and at the European level.
And you need to keep all these everything in vision and just have enough of that knowledge to be able to feed back into the process.
Raise the flag if something comes up.
I mean, certainly, I mean, if you raise members could raise the flag if something comes up.
But I mean, certainly, if you want to, if there's a particular topic that you want to inform yourself enough about in order to feed back into policy.
I mean, I've just started the discussion on the mailing lists.
There's a supporter council.
Also, you can get involved with who, I don't know if this wouldn't apply so much to people who are further afield, like you were saying before.
If you are based in the UK, there's a supporter council that you could get involved with.
And RM for that is to start more local regional groups, because, as I was saying, I think it is good.
I mean, all camp doesn't happen every week, unfortunately.
And it's good to get people meeting face to face and discussing these things.
And also, I think if you're meeting face to face locally, it gives you more of an opportunity to think about going out and engaging with local people
who might be concerned or have concerns about privacy or about censorship, but wouldn't necessarily be technically inclined.
Because these are cross-cutting social issues, really. They're not just sort of digital rights issues.
They are sort of fundamental rights issues.
And certainly getting involved with local groups, I think, is a good way to feed into that.
Do you think that the tide is beginning to turn after the rise of success of the stop actor thing?
Do you think people are beginning to now become aware of these privacy issues, become aware of the censorship issues,
and that they need to be more involved and more protective of what's going on?
There is an awareness.
I mean, the response to actor made a lot of headlines, and that was a good thing.
It would have been good if those headlines included some more pointers to organizations that people get involved with.
But, I mean, as far as the general public, I think people have always had a sense of privacy and their own personal information.
And, you know, the way people react to Google or Facebook, I mean, that's not something that people haven't had to be trained into.
That's natural.
On the other hand, censorship is something that I don't think people have a nose for, like they're not sort of attuned to calling it out when they say it.
And partly because it is so sort of insidious, and you don't see it, but it's very nature.
So, I think there does need to be more education in that, in that sphere.
What you're protecting the kids?
Kids do need protecting, but I don't think there's any substitute for engaged parenting.
I don't think you can sit people in front of screens and expect the screens to do and say the right thing.
And, yeah, I mean, that's all right.
I always have the, as a parent myself, I have the feeling like, you know, you can put up as many barriers along the roads as you like.
But you need to train your children, don't go on the road, don't go on the road, don't go on the road, and you need to be there.
But anyway, I might do a topic on that on the HBO.
Great to talk to you again.
Sorry for messing up the interview three times already.
And I look forward to hearing a show from you in the future here in Hacker Public Radio.
Hi, I'm Dan at the Exhibitioners Hall, and I'm talking to Dan Lynch.
How are you Dan? How's it going?
Good, good.
Bit mad. Bit mad.
How did it go so far? We're on the very start of the show, what happened?
Well, what happened first was the registration was a bit mad, because we didn't have enough space for people, so it was a bit of a jam down there.
It was kind of a bit of a boot bottle neck down there, but we're all sorted now.
But that wouldn't be our camp if things didn't go 100% according to plan.
Now it's all great. All the crew are doing great. Lars is really busy helping out. He keeps everything running.
It's a fantastic venue here, I must say.
This is lovely, isn't it? Yeah, and we've got to thank John Moore's University Liverpool John Moore's University of Owners building.
This is the art and design academy, and they've given us kind of run into building, which is amazing.
Fantastic. Listen, I'm going to let you go. Thanks very much for putting on the show, and I'll talk to you tonight.
No problem, thanks very much.
And I'm talking to?
Arnie McGuire from Scraper Wiki.
Arnie, can you tell me what Scraper Wiki is?
Scraper Wiki is a platform for liberating public data across the web.
And we want to try and help coders do stuff with data across the web.
And when you say data across the web, what exactly are you talking about?
Talking about lots of data being published by governments all over the world.
You can't do anything with it. You bring it into the Scraper Wiki truck.
You turn it around, structures, and you get into a nice format that everybody can reuse.
But surely governments of the world would like to publish their data in open formats that's easily accessible to the people who are paying them.
Absolutely, I think governments hopefully will get to that point, but they're not there anywhere near there at the moment.
So the first parameter for them is really to publish at all.
And I think many departments in the UK, many state departments in the United States, for example, where we've got a large user base,
they're just basically saying publish and be damned, and that's what they're doing.
But the difficulty is, it's very difficult to reuse that data.
So what Scraper Wiki is, it's kind of a place where coders can help get that data and make it available in a reuse format.
And how would you go about doing that? Say, some public service decides that they need to put their required by lot,
but their information on the website and they put it up in PDFs, for instance.
So Scraper Wiki is, on the tin, we would have data scientists of coders who would go to that website, they would scrape that PDF.
They'd set up a schedule so that every time that PDFs updated by that State Department, or by the local county council, or by the local NGO, or whoever is actually publishing that data,
they would set up a schedule, and then that Scraper would run and re-run and keep re-running and refreshing the data store, the Scraper Wiki data store.
And then they can download it as whatever format they like, they can download it in JSON, or they can download it as CSV, or they can download it in Excel.
And actually do something with it.
And join the data sets together. I mean, we're doing a bit of work for the cabinet office in the UK at the moment, and they have lots of departments.
And much as they do want to talk to each other, it's very difficult for them to be in the systems that have been around for quite a long time.
So we're doing a scraping different departments and actually join those data sets together.
It's fantastic. I think you are heard about your project on FOS Weekly, if I'm not mistaken.
Yeah, Mike. I think my colleague, Francis Irving, was on FOS Weekly some time ago. He's our CEO and a wonderful gentleman.
Okay. Listen, what we're going to do is put a link to that in the show notes for this episode, and I hope you enjoy the rest of the show.
Thank you very much. I think I'll come up with my first time here. It's very exciting. The program looks brilliant.
It's wonderful. We're a Liverpool-based organization, so it's fantastic to have the opportunity to support Dan Lynch and all his team here.
Cool. Thank you.
Hi, this is Ken Fallon. I'm down at Ogcamp 12, and I'm talking to you.
Tristan L.
Now, I spoke to you before, I believe.
Yes, you did, yeah.
And unfortunately, my MP3 player died a slow and horrible death. Actually, it was quite fast.
So listen, can we redo the interview, if you wouldn't mind?
Yeah, that's my poem.
Okay. You've got a music software jukebox project. Can you tell us about that?
Yes, it's actually written by a couple of friends of mine, but there are some of us who have written clients for it.
Essentially, it's a networked jukebox system where the user queues their own music rather than choosing the music from an existing list.
So it's useful for parties and hackathons and things like that, for people to send their own music into a queue.
And it's based on the LPD, if I'm...
It's similar, yes. It's inspired by the LP hack, which is using a print demon to print music.
Pretty cool, pretty cool.
So it's that done properly, essentially.
Okay. And what's the website?
You can find the website at hgd.theunixzoo.co.uk.
Okay, okay. And what's your contact details so that people can get in touch with the project?
Or what's the best way to get in touch with the project?
Probably just by going on there. And from there, you can get to the code repository on GitHub.
And all the information about package archives for different Linuxes and things like that for it.
And what's your rule in the...
I've actually written one of the GUI clients for it, which runs on Mac Linux and Windows, which allows you to submit music and view the album art of what's created.
And look at what's playing and vote music off if you don't like it and all that sort of stuff.
So could you like stream, say, in your house? Could you stream to various different music to different locations?
Actually, it doesn't have streaming support at the moment. It uses in-play as a back-end.
Very nice.
Yes.
So there's some work at the moment to get a VLC back-end on it. And you should be able to provide streaming through that.
But there isn't any native streaming support built into it.
So it's essentially a queueing system for in-player.
That's right, yeah.
That is actually quite nifty and handy.
No, listen, you're here at Alcamp 12. Any plans to go and see some talks?
I haven't decided yet, and the talk schedules are a bit empty at the moment, so I'm going to see what comes up.
Okay, thank you very much for interviewing, again, the second time. And look forward to buying your point later on.
Hi, everybody. This is Ken here at Alcamp 12, and I'm down with Peter Cannon from the Dick Tarpon Roadshow.
Yeah, we're doing, aren't we?
Not too bad. How's life?
Yeah, really good, really good.
Have you had any plans to go and see any of the talks?
Yeah, I'd like to... I'm not too sure about today.
Obviously, myself and Matt as part of TDTR are so funny enough doing something later on.
Are you a little bit too to say?
Well, I'm not quite sure what's going on there, because we were sort of sworn to see Chrissy, but then by what I can gather the secrets out.
There's going to be a bit of a quiz later on today between Linux Outlaws and UPC, which we have total control over, so you can imagine with the TDTRS format there's going to be lots of fun.
Fantastic. Hope you enjoyed the show, and I look forward to having a beer with you later on tonight.
Excellent. Thank you very much.
Hi, this is Ken Fallon here at Alcamp 12, and just here at the Hacker Public Radio booth, and somebody's walked up and wants to talk about the project.
Hi, my name's Michael McDade. I'm here just to talk a little bit about business, which is an e-learning website, which basically at the moment provides online learning resources for teachers to use on their interactive whiteboards,
for things such as teaching at the science tables, division, lots of different aspects of primary school maths.
The site is actually going on the big change, and in September, I hope to launch a lot of new features, which involve a lot more interactivity using the children of the class, the photos.
It's going to be quite exciting, but that's all coming middle September. And is this a pre-software project?
At the moment, everything is completely free. They may be charging in the future.
Do you release it under an open-source floss license, or is it a proprietary application?
At the moment, it would be proprietary. Again, not to worry. And what do you hope to do with your website?
I just hope to inspire teachers around the world to use the software, and I hope to change the way people are talking about maths and how they learn.
And how would this compare to something like Blackboard, for instance? Well, Blackboard is kind of specialized for putting content on for a syllabus kind of, you know, it basically goes into a lot more detail.
Mine is much more, I suppose, more like an app in terms of those simple things in a simple way, teachers, certain concepts, and an easy to understand visual way.
Okay, there are many different ways for to learn the tables, for example, or to teach maths. How do you do that if it doesn't fit in with the method that the particular school is following?
Well, there's many ways to skin a car, you could say. This is just one particular method, in particular, mine works by showing visual representation of tables.
So in this case, you can show fish moving in and out of a rectangular array. So it's quite easy for a children to see the four times two, it's just a line up of four fish by two fish.
Or to see the square numbers, for example, a five by five fish, or six by six fish, they can see the square shape.
That is actually quite interesting because my daughter's class, they forbid them looking at the tables, anything visual when they're learning maths at all.
That surprises me because I think if a child doesn't see a visual representation of what the tables are, they'll never get the concept.
Okay, thank you very much. Listen, can you repeat once again your website and the contact details?
Yeah, it's www.viznos.com. And how would you spell Viznos? V-I-S-N-O-S.com.
Thank you very much. Listen, are there any tools that you want to do? Are you planning on doing a talk on this? I haven't decided yet. If it will be, it will be tomorrow.
Yeah, you should definitely do a talk about this. There's enough parents walking around here and believe me, maths is becoming such an important thing that people would like to know about it.
And you might have some people who will be able to test it out for you.
Absolutely, I think that's a good idea. Go sign up now. Bye.
Press the Recording Device and you will record them. And you'd say something like this. How are you doing? My name is Kevin Fallon. I'm sending in a Hacker Public Radio Show report from on Camp 11, 12.
And who are you and what are you doing? I'm Fab from Linux Outlaws. I'm just running around here right now and I'm with the camera actually.
And now we're kind of interviewing each other, which is driving me insane. It's very meta. So that would be it. That would be the segment and then you just simply then stop your recording.
Hello, this is Ken Fallon at on Camp 12. I'm down here at the exhibition hall as you do, trying to connect to wireless. And then I realized, you know, my wireless system working.
And if I was running a proprietary operating system, I would need to jump in an airplane, fly to Cappuccino or Cupercino or Seattle, Washington to find the person who's written the operating system to have them fix it.
No folks, that's not necessary here, not when you're running CrunchBang Linux because when anyone has a wireless issue with CrunchBang Linux, the creator of CrunchBang Linux walks over to you and says, I'm going to fix that personally.
And to that end, I'll introduce Kornomano.
Hello. Hello. So how's it going? How's life? It's going well, mate. Yeah. Are you enjoying the show? Yeah. And tell me, you've thrown off this mortal coil. You've said a few to the man and you've started your own company. Can you give me the website of your own company, please?
Well, yes, if you just type CrunchBang into Google, you're pretty much. And how is it going for you? It's going well. So it's slow to begin with, but it's picking up, so yeah.
Okay. And what sort of services do you offer the general public?
I don't. I'm basically, I'm working full time at the moment on CrunchBang. So the way it's generating an income by donations and a bit of absence on the website, so that's pretty much it.
And that's enough to keep the roof over your head.
Yeah, I mean, I'm lucky in the fact that Becky works as well. So, you know, we've got two incomes going into the house. So, you know, it's quite popular. It's quite popular, CrunchBang, which surprises me more than anybody else.
And yeah, it's uses a pretty generous and it's, yeah, it's going all right.
And say I want to do support the project. How could I go about doing that?
You can.
I know you don't like this, by the way, but I feel we're very uncomfortable because.
Anyway, if you want to support the project, you can go to the CrunchBang website and there's various different ways there you can support it by subscribing and throwing a few quid to this guy so he can continue working on an excellent, excellent operation system.
This HP laptop that I'm.
A conference is because the Wi-Fi you can't connect via Wi-Fi, can you?
Well, that was my fault because I didn't set it up before I came here and I was.
Yeah, well, yes, but here we see you're going to sit down, you're going to hopefully resolve the issue and improve it.
So that's, yeah, it could be difficult.
Okay, thank you very much, Phil. It's back here round.
Cheers. He's up there playing with a 3D printer.
Ah, excellent. I need to mosey up that far and get some interviews.
You do.
Okay, talk to you later. Bye.
And here we are down in, I'll come 12 again and we're talking to Les. How are you doing Les?
I'm fine mate. I'm really, I'm fine. It's been a hectic first thing, but I'm getting there. I'm happy.
Everybody seems very chilled out, very relaxed. Down to you, I guess.
Not down to me, down to the crew. The crew have been fantastic.
They've turned up, done the job with very little instruction from me, so fair play, brilliant.
It was very funny to come down the stairs this morning at the hotel and you got this army of geeks ready to rock.
And I was said to myself, said to my friend, Paul, that's the crew. Yeah, I know.
26 people this year with 420 tickets allocated for delegates.
It's been really, really busy, but the crew have pulled it off.
Do you hear cups to start with? What happens at every event? Nothing runs perfect.
But I'm really, I'm happy that the crew just got with it and did the job really well.
Absolutely excellent. We even had the fire drill in here. We had a full rundown on what we needed to do.
So you excited about what's coming up? I am, yeah. I've not seen any talks yet. I've been too busy, but I'm excited to see the open hardware jam on the top floor.
I've recently got into Raspberry Pi, Arduino, that sort of thing, and big mission as well, which is a new 8-bit computer.
And I'm really interested in getting a soldering iron and doing something. I've never sold it properly in my life.
I built a badge three weeks ago that lights up and I was ecstatic. I'm 33. I shouldn't be that happy about that, but I am.
I completely know where you're going. By the way, Mr. X has done an excellent introduction to soldering on HPR.
If you go back, listen to the last few months, you'll be able to do it. Yeah, that sounds good.
So how are you doing, otherwise, the you-couped event for you involved in that, or?
I am, yeah. You-couped that went off in April this year, really well attended, 65 people.
But for the size of NU, it was fantastic. It's tiny, the venue, Mad Lab in Manchester.
When we went on one floor this year, I'm currently planning Bar Camp Blackpool, which is happening in six weeks' time.
All the tickets for that have gone already. 100 and 50 tickets. And we've got a really lovely conference venue this time.
And we're getting spoiled rotten by them. Three Wi-Fi projectors, the food's fantastic,
access to saunas and gyms and all that for hotel guests. It's brilliant.
Very nice. I must say this venue is fantastic here as well.
John was, it's fantastic. What they're giving us. It's huge this space.
You can't, you couldn't fill it today. We've got 400 people here. You couldn't fill it.
No, no, you could not. And it's, it's really relaxed. There's plenty of opportunity for people to come around.
There's a whole goal of people now fixing my laptop.
Coronama, if you've already heard this interview with Philip, he has fixed his wireless issues and he's currently working on mine.
So, it couldn't be better.
It's brilliant. It's crowdsourcing, repairing your laptop. I like this. On the top floor, Neil Morin.
He's got some old apple map, G5 equipment. And he's getting people to fix that for him.
Fantastic. Brilliant. I love this. Listen, if it's okay, I'd like to meet you.
You meet you for later on at the end to do a wrap-up of the show and we'll tag that on at the end.
Okay, thanks very much.
Hello, everybody. My name is Ken Phalam. We're here at the exhibition area and I'm talking to Dave.
How are you doing? Hi. I'm good. Thanks. Having a great time.
You might know him, but he is the guy responsible for keeping me sane over the last few days
as I was working through this script for parsing the Linux link site. So, thank you very much for that help, Dave.
Oh, you're very welcome. I'm having a boring day and suddenly I got this message to say and help, help, help.
It's cool. You're also working on the back end for the, for Hacker Public Radio as well.
So, if you're on the mailing list, you see the name coming up.
So, tell me, what's the show like? I haven't seen anything. Can you tell me what's going on?
Well, so far I've seen the opening, opening address and the thing that followed on from that,
which is a talk about licensing, which is very, very interesting subject.
It went into areas of the whole business of copyright and the ownership of what you do in the open source arena.
And, you know, that's really deep stuff and I'm not sure that everybody, myself included, particularly probably,
has really got the head around what that means, you know.
The stuff that you produce, what happens to it and, you know, what's your ownership of it?
And why people now are so pattern conscious and just want to keep tight hold of everything
and see the life of you for even daring to make something vaguely similar to it.
It's all completely insane. It's a good talk, in that particular one.
Other than that, I've just been looking at the hardware hacking area, which has been amazing.
It's really, really good. There's some quite mind-blowing bits of kit.
It reminds me of the old days of BBC Micros and all of that sort of stuff.
So, yeah. So, what's up there, actually?
Well, Raspberry Pi is the big thing up there.
But also, the 3D printing is, there's a guy building a 3D printer and there's a maker bot up there as well.
I think the American Origin 3D printer, which is a pretty cool device.
So, I forgot to say, I went to see a talk about the Raspberry Pi and 3D printing,
which is very, very well attended. Lots of enthusiasm.
Imagine if people would be rushing out to buy 3D printers after this 400 quid is shot, we're told.
It's still not too bad, you know?
No, it's a sort of price that you could afford if you've saved up some pennies.
It's good. So, things like sewing, embroidering.
I think you can get sewing with this up there.
I didn't actually, I saw somebody being inducted into the strangeness of sewing things.
So, I don't know whether you can get a lesson in hamming or something.
But it's pretty good. It looks pretty good.
Some various other single-board devices up there as well.
So, yeah. And is this your first shop?
It is, yes. First time here. Not the first time in Liverpool, but the first time in the Throneau camp.
Looking pretty good. Again, pretty good. I'm looking forward to the rest of it.
Okay, good stuff. Catch you later.
Then I'm talking to Anna Morris from FSFE.
Free software foundation.
That's right. But I didn't want to talk to you about that, but now I'll talk to you about that.
What's the free software foundation Europe?
Well, the person you need to speak to is actually just behind me at the moment called Sam Juke,
but the free software foundation Europe is a Europe-wide free software organisation,
which does many things from lobbying to kind of grassroots campaigns,
to local support groups called the Fellowship, which are really fun.
Yes, we had an interview here with him, yes, with him on HPR last year when we were at Oddcamp.
But I wanted to talk to you about the project that you were talking about a moment ago. What was that?
Yes. I've started using an operating system called KX Studio, which has very interesting origins.
It's very small and kind of not heard of, but it's the best that I found for multimedia in a while.
It started because the guy who runs it was making some jack audio kind of applications,
and I think he just wanted an OS to run them in for testing.
It's got Ubuntu underneath, and KDE on the top, and a jack kernel thing running all the time with a live thing,
and it's very fast, and it's so beautiful to use.
It's by far the best kind of multimedia OS I've found in the past year, and no one's ever heard of it,
so go look it up. It's KX Studio, and it's run by the Linux musicians, people.
The Linux musicians, do they have a podcast? Are they the open source?
Okay, that's diverting people from the topic.
Anything else? Are you enjoying the show?
Hi, I'm having a great time running the booth here, and I've met some really interesting people.
You've snuck in the booth as I was doing something else. That's interesting. I'm mostly over there.
Thank you very much for the interview, and I'll talk to you later.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dark pound and the economical and computer cloud.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com, all binref projects are crowd-sponsored by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a line, lead us own license.
