Episode: 1679
Title: HPR1679: 2014-2015 New Year Show Part 6 of 8
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1679/hpr1679.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 07:25:10

---

This is HBR episode 1679 entitled New Year Show Part 6 on 8.
It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 133 minutes long.
The summary is New Year Show Part 6 on 8 from 3-0-0-530 UTC.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
But keep it while I'm saying I mean, you know, I kind of think this, this, this, uh,
new fangol, uh, a version of Grooton, you know, I've got a problem with that if you are.
Uh, obviously there are people who have this Grooton allergy, you know, it seems like a new
thing to me.
I mean, I haven't heard of, uh, peon allergies when I was a kid.
They must have existed because they were often not diagnosed properly and people died
of them before they could be.
I'm, I, I, I, I, I, I, I think you're right.
I'll say that.
That, uh, the reason we're finding all these quote unquote new allergies is because everybody
else who used to have it just died and then they didn't have it anymore.
We have much more sophisticated testing for allergens now and we've been, we've been
able to identify about 400% more potential allergens in the last sort of 20 years than
in the previous 70 or so.
I've been played biologies all my life, you know, and, you know, which is the unusual spot
for a farmer to be in, I mean, I know, hey, hey, you know, it's, it, none of that stuff
is good for me, but, uh, you know, by, I, I have developed tolerance as an adult.
But, uh, yeah, my, my, my parents would have said, you know, no, gee, we'd never heard
of any way of peanut allergy.
It must be a made up thing and, uh, you know, obviously there are people at it and the
good analogy, yeah, you know, one of my, uh, neighbors' wives, you know, who's in my, uh,
parents age group, she has it, so it's, it's not like, it's not like I'm saying it's
a non-existent thing.
However, I am saying, all, all these new age people come out and saying, oh, yes, people
have a good analogy, so nobody should, uh, consume good and that, you know, I kind of have
a problem with, you're, uh, you're hot and distorted and whatnot.
Can you, like, uh, try and keep a, a level voice and possibly move your mic away from your
mouth a little bit?
How's that?
I moved the mic out.
Oh, it's fabulous.
Now, just maintain that tone.
Yeah, and, and probably this is a subject that I care about, so I, I've probably been
more hot than I normally would be.
Yes, here we go.
Absolutely wonderful now.
Just stay calm and just speak right on through it.
Don't raise your voice.
Let's, let's find a topic, uh, sci fi or free software or whatever, you know, because
I've been, and I guy, what, what, 45 minutes now, let's do something else.
I do want to say one thing about the whole GMO thing and it, it is that I look forward
to the day when plants finally gain consciousness because I want my salad to taste like fear.
Do you have the, do you have the truffles?
Well, I, I do remember we were discussing the subject at the, uh, first, uh, august planet
and it's called, I don't think I'll do so in there, but, you know, I expressed my opinion
and caught who told me I was insane and, uh, and I probably am, uh, I, I know free 30
is diametrically opposite opposed to my opinion and, uh, I do, I, why I'm on the subject,
I do remember last year and I was, uh, you know, uh, three third about 10 o'clock in the
morning the next day, he was talking to Ken Fowler and he said, yeah, 50 was 50 was in
here about eight o'clock this morning and he was drunk as a skunk and dead if I wasn't.
Well, on, on the GMO thing before we finally switched subjects, um, I get the fact that it's
your, it's your living and all that. I mean, for me, I, I, I think the reason why there's
an awful lot of our position to GMO, my, my sample aside, we had to one of the GMO providers
is the fact that there's no independent testing that this whole system is built around corporations
getting their own way and one of those major corporations is more central. They want to get on the
market and get bypass all of the regulation, get it in at the food chain, all around the world,
they want to get their stuff all around the world and bypass any safety, um, checks that it's
actually okay for humans, um, and it's, uh, quite right across the board. I mean GMO as far as
they understand different crops at a different level, some are much more safe, others are much more
risky, but it's just all lumped into one GMO and they don't want it, um, you know, advertise the
search so that people can reject it. They want it sneaked into the board. I think all of that counts
against GMO and against proponents like Masanto. Um, I think they could do an awful lot. I think GMO
is a future, but it needs proper safety. I need proper checks on board and I don't think Masanto
are even remotely interested in that because they just want money, money, money.
Dude, tell me, is this a web monster or is it a person in money? I, I, I just can't imagine that.
See, I mean, I got no problem with GMO, but
I'm not going to move in from open to be my observer.
A farmer's ability to produce a crop should be dependent only on the resources they have at hand,
not on any company and especially not on somebody who says you will only use our germ and our seed
to produce crops once you sign an agreement with them. I mean, you shouldn't even have to sign
an agreement. It should be a case of do you want some seed that we will grow? Yes. Give me money,
I'll give you seed. That should be the sum total of the agreement. That's it.
There should be no further complication. I disagree. It's always been this way of hybrids.
Yeah, if you're seed that you produce is exactly the same as seed that you bought that's one thing
and especially if the seed has been developed by a governmental institution like university,
but just like, I'm sorry, just like a proprietary software agreement. If you sign up and say,
if I buy this seed, I agree I will not replant from this seed. I will buy from you again every
year, then that is the agreement that you agreed to and you don't do destroying your
ability to produce crops. I mean, I did that just yesterday, you know, as a new producer in the
Iove Monsanto with my seed seller. I went through on the web and said, yes, I agree. I will not
take the output of the seed and replant it. No, I'm sorry. I do not see the problem with agreement.
Now, do you see the problem? If the seed that I am planning was developed with my tax dollars
and the seed that I'm replanting is exactly the same seed that I planted the year before.
That is not the case of hybrids. Hybrids, you've got a 50-50 chance that what you're planning is
going to be what you are given, but it's not the same thing with a non-hybrid seed.
What you're planning is going to be essentially what you're given and I have a huge problem.
If tax fare money is used to develop that variety and still they say, you can't replant that seed.
With hybrids, I do not have that problem. My neighbors do not have that problem.
I'm sorry, we understand this contract. You're still putting your ability to grow crops under
the control of somebody who does not tend your land. Let me put it to you this way 50. Here's
the parallel of the agreement you signed. This would be the same as signing a contract with IBM
or Apple or Microsoft, which says, if you use our software, any documents that you produce,
you cannot redistribute without basically paying us to distribute those documents. You cannot
produce a piece of music and actually sell that piece of music without paying us for the rights
to actually sell that piece of music. This is the exact thing that we've fought against in the software
industry for 30, 40 years now. Unfortunately, you guys have gotten stuck in the same exact
trap that we fought so hard to get out of in the technology industry.
It's good to know. I would argue. We were talking earlier today the various Texas speech
in engines. There's a company out there called Citrole, I think yes, when I was playing with TTSNs,
they're absolutely beautiful and natural sounding Texas speech because they have, you know,
they've researched behind them and they do have a free Linux client, but it's in their agreement
that says, hey, you can use this on your local system, but you cannot use this to produce content
for a web that you are going to share with any third party. So in other words, let's say I
were to design a free software equivalent to Amazon Echo based on the Raspberry Pi.
I'm certain there is. For people's own adoption, I could write the software and say,
okay, here at this point, this is where you install a client and I could say, you go over here
and grab a straw and plug it in and for your own use, that would be okay, but you could not do,
I'm sorry, Marcus, but you could not do podcasts and post it up to HPR based on septal
because that would violate the free software agreement. Now, I don't know if you paid for septal,
maybe you could. I think that is a perfect real world analogy tomorrow in Santa. You're saying
no, it's completely different. It's an example of exactly what we've rejected. It's a perfect
example of what we have as a community rejected 50. That's exactly the kind of stuff that we're
fighting against. I don't know if it's an exact analogy, but most analogies aren't exact. I mean,
it's fairly close as analogies go because they usually are, but there isn't no one else talking.
No, I don't know. I heard silence. I thought I'd take a turn. No, it kind of reminds me the way
you describe it 50. It kind of reminds me of the Adobe suite where you can pay for it and you can
go on and use it and try to make some money using it and if you're lucky at that, you can pay for it
again. In theory, if you're any good at what you do, it's going to pay for itself. I don't think
it's exactly the giving away you're right to earn a living with it, but it certainly is proprietary.
That's not an analogy. Most of us have rejected or tried to reject or do our best to reject
proprietary software and proprietary things in our lives. This is one of the most proprietary things
I've ever heard of is the Monsanto foods. That's in their agreement. I think what started the
conversation for most people that was saying that they didn't want genetically modified food,
and that's two completely different issues, I think, their business plan and their product,
which both are pretty revolting to me, and it sounds like to the other people.
That's my two cents. I'll be quiet again.
I'm going to stop on everybody. The thing that Jell are talking about, it comes down to,
if you believe the installment version of everything, which is basically everything should be
free, or if you think of a more modified version, think that you can have proprietary and some
things and other things you can't have proprietary. If we apply everything that we take from free
software to this issue, shouldn't 50 be getting the seeds for free? I disagree. It is exactly
the stolen model. I mean, if you go stolen, yes, I've got to reject this, but most of us say,
yeah, we like Richard's ideal, but we learn a computer we can use, and we accept a binary blob
for a bit of cards, especially. If we want to do games over Steam or whatever, everybody on Steam's
except a binary blob, and we see RMS as this ideal, but ideal that most of us say, we're going to
compromise our ideals a little to have a system that works. A lot of it, if we jump over to gaming,
we jump on Windows. Steam's great, but it's still not to be all, and then if you weren't
having a very game out there, you've got to be prepared to run Windows. And that makes us
low. And fairness though, gaming doesn't have the opportunity to kill you. It doesn't have the
opportunity to affect your health. That doesn't matter. If you're just randomly applying the concepts
from free software to everything else, you have to look at everything the exact same way. You
can't put value over of life over something else. If you're doing that, you have to take in the
you're not taking into consideration that when you just blanket apply the things that we get
from free software to everything else. The software absolutely can kill you. They're software
and cars. They're software and pacemakers. There's software in weapons systems and drones
in smart bomb software can absolutely kill you. But if this is where you talk about kill you,
you know, find me one instance of a GMO that's killed anybody. I mean, I can find you instances
of hybrid, you know, natural combinations of species have killed people. This is Monsanto is going
in. This is where the parallels break down and this is why you can't really compare this to
software licensing is the agreement with Monsanto is not like a software agreement in that
you're paying them for seed, but you're also agreeing to let them
lit your ability to use something that otherwise wouldn't have any limits placed on it.
You're
I'm sorry, Alex Bieber, I'm saying it's the exact same thing. No, it's not. It's signing a Euler.
You know, if I sign a Euler, I'm agreeing. I'm not going to give this a web by Eric Hoppe's
software. No, it's not the exact same thing. What it is is you're paying them for seed.
And if you have some of that seed set aside, you're saying they're saying you can't use that
to extend your crop. If the seed is viable and can be grown, there should be no limit placed
on your ability to use it in that regard, none whatsoever. And any limit placed on it is a moral.
I have to disagree. I mean, if it's not a hybrid and it's pretty true, and I
when I purchase that seed, if I do not sign or agreement, not to use that regardless of the
then I have to use it. But if, you know, if I'm buying a hybrid and when you do a hybrid,
only 50% of the seed is going to breed true, but it's been like that forever. If you buy
a hybrid seed, you're your signing agreement. I'm not going to save seed over a replant.
No, see, this is the thing. The only reason you should be buying seed is if it is viable and it
will grow. That's the only reason you should ever buy seed. It does not matter whether it's a hybrid
strain or a true strain. If it's going to grow, that's why you buy it. Any limitations placed on
you by the seller are utterly incompletely and utterly ridiculous. I have to disagree. I, you know,
I buy seed to maximize my profit just like any other business. But at the end of the day,
if the seed doesn't grow, you're going to have no profit. Generally, if the seed doesn't grow,
I'm going to get a rebate from the seller. If the seed is not resisted to chemicals,
or not resistant to pests, you know, if I plant a crop of the seed,
that supposedly they can come over and spray with roundup and kill the other plant growing within
my seed. If that doesn't work, I get a rebate. Well, the seed is a mine made product.
And that's what if it doesn't perform exactly as a Zainty perform, it may be.
It should go the if one, but that is mine made. But yeah, but even if it's, this is the thing,
even a GMO crop is still a biological process and it should still perform a biological function.
If, if it, if you're signing an agreement that says if you have any leftover, you can't grow it.
It's exactly the same as being told by the company in the first place that some that amount of
it won't grow. Either way, you're not being given what you're paying for. And at the end of the day,
it's limiting your ability to grow a crop. No, I don't understand that FXB because if I,
you know, first I should know how much seed I am planting per acre and have a pretty good idea.
How much seed I have to buy in that year, but I am not aware of any agreement that says,
okay, you, you have the original seed in the bag you bought from Sano and you didn't plant it
this year. And it says you can't plant it next year. That's not what we're talking about.
We're talking about harvesting seed from what you planted and we're, and we're planting it.
Exactly. If I, if I, if I, if I, if I, if I, if I, if I, if I, if I, if I see still the bag,
I can store that plant it this year. So that's the thing, it shouldn't matter where the seed comes from.
You should never ever be limited from, from planting it. It doesn't matter where it comes from.
51st turn you might, please, it's ear splitting. I'm sorry, I don't,
I don't think I have, I can speak with less excitement.
It's not work, but even when you speak with less excitement,
and you're splitting the line up.
OK, OK, what's up, not in mumble.
Let me see, because I did have the amp all the way out,
because somebody told me I was way too low.
Anyway, you were going around and around and around.
The same topic, I've heard everyone say the same thing five times.
So if you want to stay on the topic,
let me ask you a question that hasn't been asked.
How would you feel about labeling your product as GMO,
not the seed that you plant, but the crop that you harvest,
labeling that as GMO, and from every step in the process
down the road until it gets to someone's dinner table,
it has to be labeled GMO.
How would you feel about that?
That depends.
You actually have to label what kind of GMO seed
or is it just a GMO label that doesn't really mean anything.
Yeah, you got to remember GM, every, everything that I know of
that is planted today is GMO in the pure sense
of the definition of GMO.
There are products or plants that are genetically spliced.
That could be a problem.
But everything we eat, the corn, all the corn we eat,
all the wheat we eat has been genetically modified to grow
in our climate and to grow at a better rate
to make the farmers money.
If we didn't have genetically modified mostly grains,
we couldn't feed the world.
So you got to define what you mean by GMO.
Pookie, let me turn that around on you.
And I hope I thought my mic down.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Okay, I'll do that.
But let's say there's people out there who would say,
if you're getting a blood transfusion,
you have to have it labeled by race,
because I don't want to, you know,
somebody want to black a transfusion
from somebody who's an arable or an eddle,
or needing to do it with it.
That's exactly because unless you prove
that you're an adolescent, if you need a bag of blood,
and it had to say, all right,
the person who this blood came from
was a genetically modified genes-fliced clone
grown in a test tube.
Okay, that's not even a test tube.
It's already been done.
It's already been done.
There are GMO humans.
Well, now my point is to say,
you've got to prove it's going to have something
to do with something.
You know, you can prove that you can't do anything
if you can't prove lineage.
So you do have to keep track of it
and find out where it's been and where it's going,
or you can't find out if it's doing anything.
Until you do that, you can just blame any problems
you find on other things in the environment.
So without trackability,
there is no culpability, I'm sorry.
Remember as well that all the studies
in the case of GM food are done
by the companies wanting to sell GM food?
Or funded by them.
Or funded by them exactly.
So they are predisposed to finding results
that say GM food is perfectly safe.
There's no independence there.
And completely different topic,
how's my mic now? Am I still too hot?
It hasn't changed at all.
Can I ask a question?
Plate.
Who here would like to pay money for my seed?
Ha ha ha.
No one.
How is it going to be delivered is my question
because it's going to be enormously hopefully.
No, no, it depends how much you want to pay, buddy.
I told Pokey and Peggy to get their own room earlier.
Can we pay to make sure it never gets delivered
to anyone ever?
For the right price, yes, yes you can.
Or at least never gets delivered to a female.
So you're saying we have to pay for Peggy to get snipped?
I really like this idea.
Let's do this.
Ha ha ha.
Kick starter.
Anything.
Go with Indie Goga or go with GoFundMe.
It does not have a cut off date.
I was just like kick.
Kick starter, you got a chill prototype.
I was just going back up the line to name it.
If we're going to clip them,
there needs to be a cut off date.
But I'm fine.
When was it that build board that said,
please new to your pets and be a friend?
Does it have to be clipped?
Do we have to say that?
It can't we use like a roto tool or some sort?
No.
Who asked you?
The hand is an equine gastration device?
Yeah, I don't think Fido has a choice what we do.
Sounds like we have a fan of distorted view in the house
if they know about the...
Oh, yes.
Jagume, my friend.
And how am I still too hot?
Yeah, is your mic in front of your face?
Because if it is, move it off to the left or the right.
Yes, it's pretty much out of the way.
It's sticking out next to your head.
Chicken nugget.
How's that?
Is it next to your head?
It's from my mouth.
He's talking out of his ears.
Put it on the back of your head, 50.
It's gotten louder.
How's that?
Perfect.
Better.
Yeah, it's wrapped around the back of my head now.
It's better, it's tolerable.
Speak wildly.
Put it in a different room.
Ask me about GMOs again.
50, how do you feel about GMOs?
I don't think they should exist.
Monsanto is my god.
Monsanto should die.
I want Monsanto vegetables.
Eat Monsanto products, you become one.
Oh, OK, I have one.
I think we were past flogging this like a dead horse.
Let's move on to some other topic.
Hey, Peguel, what do you have for another topic besides your seed?
I'm just going to say I got one.
I got one.
You give Peguel enough GMOs.
You won't have to worry about a cutoff date.
OK, I know not everyone does, but what's the best game everyone played this year?
Path of Exiles.
Space team.
F-T-L.
F-T-L.
F-T-L.
It's good.
Jess.
Do you mean to me play on Linux or play in general?
I would prefer to say play on Linux, but I know not everyone uses it exclusively.
I only play games on Linux, but I know not everyone does.
Arts against humanity.
All the cool people do, though.
Oh, C-A-H is good.
I would have to say the best game I played all year was Fruit Ninja with my little girl
on my tablet.
Oh, my wife loves that game.
It is kind of a fun little no-brainer game.
We've been playing Space Team at our family get together, and I have to thank Bobo
Bex and HPR for that one.
I had no idea what it was until her show.
Yeah, I haven't played that yet, but it sounds hilarious.
Yeah, I caught that HPR.
I gather must be an unusual year.
Cornominal and Bobo Bex haven't been on.
Why did you go 50 kill loggest?
Well, I wasn't here the whole time, so I can't answer, and I imagine most people weren't
here the whole time to answer, so I thought you would log more hours than anybody here.
Not in the times that they usually jump in.
They usually jump in before New Year's and Britain, so I missed most of that.
That does seem like things have been a little quiet from the CrunchBank camp.
Well, they haven't been on, wished, and well, just to say, because I think it's kind of
late for them.
Has anyone gone to see that yet?
Yes.
In our heads, yes.
I still prefer the Annette system.
How does do I?
But I'm playing with it in hopes that I will be able to migrate over to it.
I just don't know.
I'd rather stay with something that has log files I can understand.
No, I don't know.
That's one serious complaint I have about that is those stupid log files.
Why the hell does it need binary log files?
Well, you can have them output it into text.
You could actually have it do text as a regular, as a default.
You still have a binary, but you can do it.
You could also do text.
But are there any distributions that anyone knows of where it's set up to output text logs
by default?
You have that option.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
That would be up to the distribution maintainers.
I was going to say, are there any distros that are using useless D yet?
I haven't actually answered that yet.
Well, I did opine early today as a pretty much of all this that, you know, the resistance
to system D is because, you know, a lot of Linux power users have put in a lot of time
and educating themselves in the init system.
And here comes this whole new system that they have to learn.
And I think that's a lot of where the resistance may come from.
Whereas people who just throw Linux up on a box and use it and don't get that far down
to the nitty-gritty, they, you know, as long as their system is working, they don't give
a rat's either way.
Well, I mean, I think 50 that the thing is the system D isn't just trying to replace
the init system.
It is trying to replace a lot of tools, a lot of us have invested time in fully understanding
and figuring out how to use.
Hey, Dan, you seem to know a little bit about this.
Do you know why it uses binary log files instead of reading the, like, so if you turn on text
files, it'll output text files, but is there any reason why it doesn't
read those and switch over completely?
Or are binaries that much faster?
I can actually answer that.
Is part of the reason they switched to binary log files was they aren't just binary.
They're also signed.
So part of the theory is to make, um,
ah, security as well, exactly, uh, fxb.
Yeah, definitely a legitimate use case.
I just hate waiting what seems like half an hour every time I want to see the last ten
lines of the log.
It's, it's not going to piss me off KT, I never get that low in the system.
Yeah, see, I can understand having that as a feature, but I'd still rather have the
default be human readable log files.
I'd rather have the default be both.
I'm going to button here, gentlemen, and say I'm going to call a night, um, it's been
fun.
It's been the last few years.
It's been great fun.
How can you hear it at all, and I'm going to call it a night.
That's what's been there for you.
That's where you're not pissed drunk yet.
Are you getting out of it, booze?
Um, well, I'm not going to comment on that, suffice to say, you're not seeing what I'm
seeing through my eyes, um, yeah, I'm drunken off, suffice to say I'm drunken off.
So that's, uh, what, twenty, twenty-four now, not first, you know, something like that,
and seeing my eyes are blurry.
I'm, I'm calling it a night.
How can you hear people?
It's been fun.
Happy New Year.
How come K-self?
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year, ma'am.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year, ma'am.
You're doing well, ma'am.
Later, this is a live.
I didn't mention not a lesson of split.
No, I'm not going to go there.
Happy New Year, ma'am.
So how am I going to see you now?
Happy New Year, ma'am.
I really see you now.
And, uh, it's been fun.
A good one, ma'am.
So, my thing about the journal is the idea of signing and basically sequentially signing,
all the entries in the journal. It sounds like a great idea, but here's the thing. It's a solution
looking for a problem. Have we ever actually encountered a situation? Has anybody got a situation
where log files were corrupted or modified in such a way as to have a problem with the integrity
of them? That, you know, as a result of something going wrong on a system, probably not something
we didn't encounter. Not something going wrong, probably more of authentication, file authentication
logs being modified after someone has compromised the system. Yeah, and it's something that I don't
think we'd come across as desktop users, but for big systems and big data, that might be a
serious issue to contend with. Okay, let me put it this way. I work in an environment with
over 5,000 Linux servers. Not once have we had that kind of an issue. None of your servers, not
one of them's ever been owned? Nope, nothing I'm aware of. There may be on the outside of our
firewall, but those are, you know, in the DMZ outside, and it is assumed that those servers could
be breached at any time because they are not completely protected. Anything inside our firewall,
if you can get in through our security, good luck to you. Well, that's what I mean. If you've never
had a system that's been owned at all, then you're obviously not the use case for this, but you know,
plenty of servers out on the internet have been compromised, and you know, plenty of them have
been Linux servers, so this might make sense in that scenario. Someone I know one time he did have
a system that the local log files were corrupted, but he had a secondary logging going on as well,
and the only reason he noticed something was he noticed weirdness between the two logs.
Yes, exactly. That's the, I mean, that's the typical implementation in an enterprise environment,
is that you do redundant logging, where you actually have a log server set up to actually archive
all the logs in real time from your server environment. So if there's a chance that you see anything
that looks like a disagreement, you compare it to your archive source, and you look to see if there
are differences. So that's that's really why I say the journal is a solution looking for a problem.
I think we're missing the most important question that I haven't seen anybody else ask though.
The big question is, are we going to get a system D Emax D, or is Emax going to get a system D mode?
I would leave all of the latter. I thought Emax was the original system D that really all they
were doing was stripping out functionality out of Emax. I don't know, but all I know about system D
so far is that I've learned to convert my init scripts that I wrote to run with system D.
Okay, now I see that I'm getting the wrong key. I was setting a mouse key. We missed a third
minute mark greetings to Newfoundland, Labrador, Canada, St. John's, Conception Based South,
Cornerbrook and under about 12 minutes late. Incidentally, all those cities are in Newfoundland.
I think I'd like to visit Conception Bay. You know you wouldn't. It's a big crunch.
It doesn't mean what you think it means, man.
I mean, we had this discussion other day. We were dumbfounded why anybody would do a 30-minute break,
and then we have so many places on a 15 minute break. Just why? We'll pull out your globe and
look at where it is. It's right in the middle. Yeah, but if you've got to talk to anybody,
Cobra, you know, I can see an hour adjustment, but I cannot see a partition of an hour adjustment.
I didn't do it, so, man. It's all arbitrary anyway, so whatever.
Well, I think a conclusion that we've come to, you know, during the show in the past, let's just have
one time zone, then everybody adjusts when their day starts.
I think everybody should use UTC. It would make life so much more simple.
Like it has so far. It's made my life more simple. I don't know how many people here
listen to the no agenda show, but Adam Curry made that point at one point during the show
that everyone should use UTC, and he followed that up with, do you know, does anybody make a UTC
watch? And it took him a minute, and he realized this stupidity of a set.
I'm on setting one. Yeah, I'm pretty sure you can get radio control watches that will display
UTC if you want, or you could just get a watch and set it to UTC.
No, I mean, have you not seen a radio control clock?
Yeah, I've seen them at the set themselves, yeah.
Yeah, but they set themselves by a signal sent from a series of atomic clocks,
but you can set them to whatever zone you're in or against UTC.
Or say a smartphone where you're getting the same thing over the network. Yeah, I've got,
I'm not one of those clocks hanging on the wall. It's got a little box that I can set outside
that the through radio lake tells it the outside temperature, and it's right about half the time.
My phone gets the time from my cell carrier, but I'm not allowed to tell my friend what time it is.
Did you sign the agreement that you wouldn't tell your friends what time it is?
Yeah, yeah, I did. And I'm okay with that, damn it.
Oh, I celebrate that. I mean, you know, as long as you make a greater profit from not telling
people what time it is. No, no, just by knowing what time it is, I make a greater profit. I
didn't get none to do with my friend. He, he, he can buy a sundial, I don't know.
So how many of you use UTC on a regular basis as for your own personal time?
I don't use it for my personal time, but I try to send out the, um,
the HPR book club stuff in UTC because everybody's in a different time zone.
And then we'll all got to convert back. I, uh, you know,
so I had that spreadsheet set up where I could calculate, you know, one time zone from another
time zone. And it's been sitting there for a week. I, you know, I could have
on every line, but in, yeah, I was going to put in, uh, each and time and, uh, you know, uh,
usually four time. And I just never got around to doing it.
I, when I was little, I had a cheap watch. It had, uh, a ring on the outside of it that spun around.
And the ring was, you spend the ring to the plus or minus, uh, GMT time. I think it was GMT
at the time. That's what it said in the manual. And you spend that around to the plus or minus GMT
time. And whatever your watch is set to, you, you always set it to GMT. And then when you
spend the dial, it tells you what the, and it would spin the face underneath the, uh, the dials
as well while spinning the outer shell. So you, you could always spin and you never had to reset
the watch till the battery died. Actually, I think that was a wind up one. So the battery never died.
You're not believe how much time I've been screwing around cheap watches in the last 10 years.
You put them on your arm and the bandos, the hell, and the thing falls off. And, you know,
even if you got one of those toy toy toy, uh, you know, pseudo twisted flex bands, I am, I am
loiser. I'm sitting there squinting with a pair of needle nose pliers trying to put those back
together again. So I, I have, you know, I have come full circle into, I'm going to do the time off
my, uh, smartphone because I just can't put in the hours to keep a cheap watch together.
Uh, just take it to the dead gum Walmart down the road from you and get the
fella at the jewelry store, jewelry part to, uh, put the band on for you. They do it for free if
you buy the band from. Yeah, when the band comes apart, it's up to me to put it back together again.
No, it's not up to you. You take it back and you go, Hey, this fell apart. I got it from here.
Here's my receipt. Put it back together. Yeah, but it'd be in there every week.
You're then you need to get a better watch. Have you heard of this shit called tuck tape?
Oh, yeah. I guarantee you, most of my equipment is held together by tuck tape.
Well, uh, what kind of watch bands are you buying? I don't wear a watch personally anymore,
but I have a watch that's attached to my backpack and that's really the only time I need to know
what time it is, is when I've got my backpack on and my phone or whatever other mobile devices in
the backpack sits right there on the strap and I just pull it down, look over and look at it and
it's got a Velcro band on it and I just detach it to the strap. Uh, if you get like a Velcro band,
you can put it on your belt or something and even if you put your seatbelt on whatever did,
it usually stays together pretty well unless you hang up on something.
I cannot get anything to stay together. I mean, the leather band, Velcro band, the, uh,
the metal clasp band that's not a twist of flex, a twist of flex, none of those suckers work,
I mean, I had the Amazon watch with the secret bars in there, you know, the,
uh, what, you know, to indicate the time and none of none of it ever stayed together for me.
Do you keep it on your wrist? Yeah, exactly. We're, you know, you say on your backpack, you know,
if I don't keep the watch on my wrist, what's the point of having a watch?
Well, put the watch on your belt, Pity.
Well, if I put the watch on my belt, why don't I reach in my pocket and get myself on,
which is always perfectly accurate. Well, if you, uh, I don't know, that's why I don't carry a watch
anymore. Exactly. I don't know. I miss the days when I just had to tell the time by,
the sun is still out. Okay. Wait, the sun's going down. I better get home.
I don't know what time of day it is, but where the sun's out. Yeah, that's not a bad way to do it.
It's like I, I can't see to do anything. I might as well go home and drink a beer.
Or eight or 24. Do you got a webcam in the house? I'm up to eight.
No, no, it's, it's the 5150 oh meter. We, we got it. And, uh, there's a web page for it. There's
an app for that. Actually, I keep telling Peter one of these days, I'm going to get, I'm,
I'm getting that Arduino shield with the breast, breathalyzer. And we'll tie it into, uh,
colon panic all cast, dot org so that people could see how, uh, face die as we go through the
evening. Well, we tell, we can tell you, you've had a couple because first off, it started this
morning. You had your mic position and you were really low and really quiet. And then you,
you got louder the next time I heard, uh, and then you were louder the next time I heard,
yeah. And then you got super loud. And now your mics on the back of your head.
Well, see that's a, that's a tech thing. I started out, you know, if Asia for me, see who's on,
you know, who's talking on the PC because the, you know, there's a lot of people on it. It's,
it scrolls past my screen on, uh, plumble on the phone. So it's like, and I want to record
the same time. So well, I'll do that. I'll do that all that on the PC. It's much easier.
And I said, well, I've, you know, I've got this wireless headset. So when I go to the
end or whatever, I can still hear people. And that's the whole problem of quality. And I was down
in the hole all day long until I jumped on the phone. And that actually was what got posted.
Because, uh, and so I took the first four hours. I didn't do much to it. And, you know,
if people want to hear you, they can turn sound up. You know, I, you know, I did, you know,
I had the first three hours on recording. I said, well, I could do some manipulation. And, uh,
do leveling and, and do compression and bring myself up where I'm not as loud as everybody else,
but at least I can be heard. So I've got that. If anybody wants to, uh, listen to what I do not
recommend it to. Uh, Hey, I just want you to get that Arduino breathalyzer thing for, uh, next year.
So we can have that information logged on Fisselweb as the podcast goes on. So you want me to send
one to Fisselweb? I think we'll crowdfund that one. I think we should all have one. And then
the more breathalyzed we get, the more it pots our mic down. What we need is a raspberry pie
logged into the mumble chat that reads out Fisselweb's blood alcohol every 10 minutes.
And those bubbles every time he goes up a decimal.
Yes, this is exactly my point before you podcast. You got to, uh, uh, blow into a tube. Uh,
you know, I'm certain Peter would be a static. If I would set that up. Yeah. He speak tells you
note you can't podcast it too. So, but have we lost Peggy? Is he finding himself and his clipping?
If we're lucky. I think his blood alcohol level, uh, and him hit the floor.
Oh, not bad. Oh, I don't think he gets messed up like that. Uh, 330 maybe. I see 330,
you know, I'll cast planet and 330 if you're listening. And I'm sure you all,
and I mentioned this earlier. I remember last year about, uh, uh, uh, nine o'clock in the morning,
the next morning, you're talking to Ken Fallon and said, yeah, if you want to fit,
you was in here about an hour ago. And he was drunk as a skunk. Damn the fuzz.
We should I be drunk as a skunk right now? You could be. You just got to drink more.
Nah, I can't drink when I'm sick, man. My wife? Oh, I didn't realize you're sick. I'm sorry.
My wife is a chinchilla and every now and again, I'll give that thing like a teaspoon of beer or
wine or something. And he really enjoys it. You should migrate him to hard liquor.
Oh, like a weasel, isn't it? No, it's more like a fat squirrel.
Eat it. Eat it. Oh, squirrels. Good eat. I, I would eat the thing, but my wife would kill me.
She likes it. Chinchilla's a hilarious, man. No, they're not. They're retarded. They don't do
a thing. Excuse me. I should probably shouldn't say retarded that word. It's not PC anymore. The
thing's an imbecile. It doesn't. They're nocturnal. They don't do anything whilst you're looking or
have the lights on. Uh, I know. I've lived with the thing for a number of years. I'm very aware
that they're nocturnal and I'm very aware that they like to keep you awake when you're trying to
sleep. I'm all about the chinchilla. I get it. But even when they're awake, they don't do anything
useful. I, I, I, I, I, I, you know, I've been rebuilding my, uh, I lost most of my, uh,
firearms. I've been rebuilding my hunting firearms and, oh, just the one time,
taking up a round bail, I, I, I saw this, this whole Covey Bob White Clale and I haven't
seen them since. And there I probably could come back out of there. It's like, oh, you're stupid.
You should have brought the shotgun with you because there, there is nothing as tasty as
Bob White Clale. And then this afternoon, uh, down on my, uh, cut feed, there, there had be, uh,
thousand, uh, uh, mowered, uh, ducks down there. See, you know, uh, for ducks, up, up with
gamebirds, that's a little weird because as a landowner, I can hunt, uh, you know, static,
species like, uh, pheasant and rabbit and all that. But if should I want to take a duck,
then I would have to have my hunting license and attach to a duck stamp. So,
generally, I do not, uh, take duck, but man, that, you know, it would, it would have been.
And if you shoot a duck, you got, you got a shoot steel shot. It's a hassle. I don't like to do that.
I don't want to do that to my guns. But, uh, we're not, we're not picked up ammo the day that was
the only thing available. So please, uh, is a duck stamp anything like a tram stamp?
No, actually, a duck stamp is usually very artistic. And this was another thing that, uh, lost in the
fire. Uh, this was brought over from a hunting cabin that we owned the property we didn't own the
cabin. And eventually it was given up to us when the guys out of major sitting cans got
too old to come out anymore. But, uh, we retrieved the artwork and the artwork.
Oh, happy New Year. Happy New Year. Happy New Year to, uh, Atlantic Canada and
Cobra 2. And, hey, who did that? Who do you think? And, uh, that includes St. John,
La Paz, San Juan, Santo Domingo, and Howley Facts. Hey, 50, I just built a new gun.
Please, we're all about it. Oh, it won't take long. It's an air gun. It's a crossman. It started
its life as a crossman. Uh, what is it? 22, 22, 13, 22? Yeah, that's it. It's the 13, 22. But I
kept modifying it and modifying it. I basically have a crossman backpacker, which would be like a 1389
G, I think, or 2289. So pretty much like that, except it's all custom with, uh, you know, like,
a nice trigger job and hand, hand ground triggers and everything's custom fit and all stainless steel
bolts. And it's really nice. It looks great. And it, uh, it doesn't shoot real great. I don't
I think I get a bad barrel. Yeah. Oh, I don't, uh, they're supposed to be just as good. Uh,
in Black Friday, they had 21st off in Walmer on fire armors. I gotta go to couple
Mossberg 88. And a lot of the stuff is compatible with the Mossberg 500. The main difference is
instead of a wood hardware, you've got all fiber plastic hardware, which if you're stuck around
the woods all day long, that's really an advantage. And Colbert, too, I didn't say bent barrel. I
said, I think I have a bad barrel. I think it is a bad crown. So I, it's okay. It's a 14-inch
barrel. And I really wanted a 12 inch. So I think I'll just have to buy a 12 inch barrel. They're
pretty cheap from, uh, from Crossman. Cross is giving you a hard time. You know, or hacksaw.com.
Yeah, but then I'd have to recrown it and I'd need a crowning tool and I don't have one.
And I don't want to buy one because they're pretty expensive. I think they start around 50 bucks.
And uh, they did, you know, use it once, maybe twice in your life.
But it's something you could pass on to the kids. It's true. Then again, a Crossman barrel for 12-inch
barrels, probably six and a half dollars. You don't need to pay for things. You need to pay for
experiences. What kind of experience are you going to get if you just buy the barrels instead of
making the barrel? There are other experiences that I'd rather pay for. I didn't come out right
to it. No, I didn't. Not at all. And they never have real names. Hey, but the good news is I can
pay for experiences now because I found a new job. Congrats. Yeah, I don't know, I don't know how
widespread to work up. I got laid off from my job back in September and I was out at work for
a couple of months and I found a new job in early December and it is fantastic and it is so much fun
and it is so great. I am literally building the internet. I work for a company that makes
ocean fiber optic cables from, you know, like transcontinental cables. It's fantastic. Cool.
Unfortunately, I have to tell you that your cable is not here, sir. No, no, not yet. Well, some of it
is. I'm sure some of it is. It's everywhere. No, we're strictly corning. That well, corning makes
fibers. The fibers are in the middle of the cable and corning doesn't make cables. God, I didn't know that.
So our cable may very well be there because I believe that corning is just one of the
one of the fiber vendors. I'm not certain about that. They may not even be one. I don't know.
You know, much like brome. I'm not going to say the name of the company, but it's an awesome one.
Oh, kudos for you, man. Congrats. I'm getting off your ass and now to unemployment and
helping pay for the rest of the people that are still on it. Yeah, thanks, man. No problem there.
But I don't pay for anyone who's on unemployment. They've paid for that themselves. That's how they
get on it in the first place. They paid in and they can take out night. I don't hold anything against
anyone who's on unemployment who paid their dues. You get to pay it forward anyway. Good, because
I already paid mine and I'm on it. Oh, man, I'm sorry to hear that. Oh, no, I'm not sorry. I'm in school.
Pokey also is someone who's on a social security income because I've been labeled as
medically disabled right now. Thank you.
Well, it's my pleasure for something like that anyway.
Well, I think in your case, Lord, it's all going to come back in
in spades and innovations. And one thing I didn't mention earlier for the guys who were around was
the kind of how dramatic the weight loss I actually went through.
I would say about September of 2013, I want to say I was at 270 pounds roughly and at my lowest,
I hit about 141 pounds before I started to have an upswing in my weight again.
And that's not the way to lose it. But there's probably a bunch of us in the channel who
are jealous of that kind of weight loss. Yeah, I made a really bad joke about that earlier in the year.
My one of my friends or one of my sisters, I don't remember right now, was like, what's the best
way to lose weight? And I said, get cancer, lose 130 some pounds, and they threatened to hurt me.
You know, I'm weighing myself on a house scale. I got out, you know,
salvaged from the
local gym store. And, you know, it did come back to me, you know, my dad walked
that into his life. I'm only five pounds lighter than he is.
Was. I'm sure you guys have all heard the old joke. Cutty lose 230 pounds of unsightly fat.
Get divorced. Yeah. Shoot, Peggy. Oh.
And one other thing out of the whole course of this year that was really awesome was maybe about
a month after my diagnosis. One of my sisters went out and got the
esophageal cancer within tattooed honor. And like you're saying, they were talking about
about the time I got home, you know, or D, because that's the one doctor tells you not
going to get better. And on the one side, I can think of, you know, a year ago when they missed,
that you may have been intentional trying to keep your hopes up, but maybe there's another doctor
out there who knows more. And I definitely plan on, you know, sometime here in 2015 to do some
looking and get a second opinion, but that's just, you know, a matter of time right now.
I think all of us who say you're in their straights, you know, we would welcome
a chance to kick the crap out of any doctor who tells you you're bad off.
What color is that ribbon or what color is if it's multi-colored?
It's a blue ribbon.
Should I say if we get to pick the color of the ribbon, I said black and we go, I'm going
you guys get shattered to do that for my own amusement.
Is it Ken that's splitting the new issue out into episodes?
I am afraid so. I thought it was going to be me, but, you know, things did not fall in the place.
I hope so. We are constantly screwing Ken, I'm afraid.
No, I'm just impressed. It looks like he's put the first one out already.
He did. And like I said, my audio was way low in that. And I did an alternative.
Where I bought my audio up and not saying anything about Ken, you know,
if anybody says, well, this is crap because a core of it, we can't hear what the hell is going on.
You know, I've got an alternative video, but I don't want, you know, I don't want to go up against Ken.
So take what you're given and smile. I always do.
Oh, man. Mad props out to, you know, Ken for the work he does. And, you know, if he, you know,
takes a version where he just cuts a chunk and releases it, hey, I completely understand,
you know, with his what, probably 30 some hours he's going to have to end up dealing with.
Ken is basically, Ken is basically a legend.
Oh, more than a legend.
Which is probably why I deserve a slap from him.
I'll second that.
No, because I did actually meet him in person about three years ago and promised to do an HPR
and haven't actually finished it yet.
Well, here you are doing an HPR right now.
Yeah, but, well, see, I don't have the, the new year's shows.
Because, you know, we can all hop in and say hello at least.
Do you count the audio book clubs?
Oh, yeah, because that's got a distinct subject to it.
But we can all just jump in and do those.
Well, only if you've all read the book.
Or listened to it as the case may be.
Oh, listen, yeah, but still.
You should listen to this most recent one.
It's awesome.
We've had a bunch that are up and awesome.
We had very few that weren't unanimously enjoyed.
I'll listen to all of them, huh?
Hey, uh, Pokey, have you guys done Deadmeck by chance yet?
Or Deadmeck, um, the Americans and Metal and Ash?
No, and I don't think we're gonna because I believe all three, I don't
never heard of Metal and Ash, but I believe the other two have been pulled down from the internet.
They don't exist anymore as audio books.
Well, um, if I can find my archive copies because I'm pretty sure you release those
under a Creative Commons license.
So if I have them, I can still give them to you guys.
So I'll see what I can do.
Yeah, they, um, they were Creative Commons and we could do that.
But one of the rules is that the book is, you know, freely available to everyone.
So, uh, you know, if you, if they were up on like something that was going to stick around
archive.org or, or your own website, you know, uh, that would be cool.
That would be fine.
Or, or up on, um, uh, Cobra 2's, uh, BitTorrent site.
Well, like, uh, you said, if you, if I can track down my copies,
I will get them up on archive or something.
Yeah, we could do that then.
As long as they're freely available, then that's, that's fine.
That's our only rules that they're free of charge,
so that anyone who wants to can participate.
I'm sorry, I was in another room.
I heard my name.
Yeah, um, what's your, what's your, your BitTorrent site?
Right now, it's epic fail.
Oh, no, really?
Well, I mean, it still works.
A tracker runs and everything, but there's, there's no, nothing behind it.
It's just stale.
Oh, the backend works though.
All right.
Other than that, it needs automation and community, you know.
There you go.
We should clone Ken Fallon, because he, he, he takes a place of automation
and the community just surrounds a guy like him.
It's awesome.
There can be only one.
You know, it'd probably only take a couple of the bash scripts to get everything
automated and whatnot.
And I have no problem paying for the, uh, the hosting.
Doing it because it's something that I want, but, you know, whatever.
It's, uh, cctracker.org, but I'm pretty sure that everything is stale and it is deleted.
Most of the users, if they were there at some point because of, uh, failure to log in
and keep their user name active.
Oh, okay.
But I can fix that because, you know, Admin.
Right on.
That's what you do, Admin.
Yeah, it's just never found anybody out to, I could, you know,
frust with, uh, given access to a server that I wouldn't, you know,
it was always me by my loan sum.
Yeah, I hear you.
But I don't know the context in which you're referring.
What do you need it for?
Uh, the Lord D was offering up copies of a, a book that was released under,
an audiobook that was released under the creative commons, but the author has removed all
of the copies that he had ever posted from the internet.
So it's not something you can find anymore.
God, he has copies given to me.
I will make sure that they are out there somewhere.
If it's CC license, shouldn't you be able to just stick it on archive.org?
Uh, yes and no, um, archived award.
They have depends on the license, doesn't it?
No, well, yes and no.
But even if the license allows it, archive.org will take content down at the owners request.
Has there been any explanation as to why you took it down?
Uh, I think so.
My brother was a big fan of his and he said he was following the guy's blog or something
and that the guy just wasn't making any money off of it.
And that was his whole idea was to generate revenue by giving a couple like,
you know, your first one's free type of books away.
Oh, okay.
I think I remember following this when it was going on too.
I think he, at least through private communications, made it sound like he was taking it down
because he didn't want the old audiobook versions hanging around the free ones when they were
supposed to be new audiobook versions coming out through the new publisher.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, I listened to Dead Mac.
I never heard America or America's or whatever it was called.
I never heard that one, but Dead Mac was decent for the most part.
Well, honestly, I had to be honest with the developers that I don't even care if it
infringes on copyright.
I will bend and break it to whatever because I'm in Canada now and they don't care so much.
Oh no, but the audiobook club is our rule is that it has to be legally free.
Available for free free of charge legally to anyone who wants to participate.
And there is a lot of stuff that fits that scope.
Yes, there's an insane amount of really good music that is absolutely freeing for anyone to grab.
You just have to know where to look.
Yep, audiobooks too.
There's there's many websites we had I think four shows in a row where we didn't go to
potapodiobooks.com for for a book.
Where'd you get them from then?
Show notes.
One was Clatus book.
One was
Lost in Bronx's book.
One we got from an HP Lovecraft fan site and the other would have been Libra Box.
I don't know how cool.
Those shows haven't been posted yet.
I'm way behind in my editing and I apologize to everyone for that.
X-1101 is going to give me a hand with some editing.
I've finally swallowed my pride and admitted that I need some help.
Caught up.
So hopefully we'll get one post it shortly because I am way behind and I'm like, it's all right.
And sometimes it can get really interesting where you can get a free copy of a book say
from Gutenberg project, but you have to get it from like the Australian version of the Gutenberg
project because you can't get it in the American version.
Oh, I haven't run into that, but yeah, I can see where that would be problematic.
I can't get 1984 off of stuff up here.
That is in fact the book I had in mind there.
It's incredible how accurate that book wound up being.
I was just thinking about that the other day.
How he predicted that everybody's TV would have a little camera in it and be watching all of us.
And everybody was so paranoid about that for so long.
And then when it really happened, nobody noticed it.
And then the x-bone happened.
No, forget your TV.
Everybody's going to camera on their phone and on their laptop and everywhere you look,
there's cameras and how many pieces of black tape do you see over cameras?
You don't see any.
So it's everywhere.
Well, that's because using blue painters tape is so much more efficient.
It doesn't leave behind as much residue.
Yeah, for sure.
But you still don't see anybody else doing it.
Yeah, late way.
It's just snip the wires if you want to do it right.
Yeah, my new job.
There was rumors that they were not going to allow phones with cameras on the premises.
So I was seriously contemplating gouging the camera out with a soldering iron.
Isn't that true that DOD policy used to see furbies as a security threat?
I have no idea.
I believe it was.
There weren't allowed anywhere with any military defense, like for some reason.
That's because if they were in a room where there was
classified discussion going on, Furby would recognize and still repeat things that it heard.
Oh, does it?
It was a listening thing.
Well, they weren't for long because kids started teaching them how to swear, but yeah.
Oh, that's completely unpredictable.
Whoever would have guessed.
Yeah, and then when they removed that ability, some guys actually started selling mod kits to reinstated.
That's silly.
Yeah, but it was kind of fun.
One of the creepiest images I've ever seen is of a dissected Furby where they stripped all of the
skin and blop blop for it and just left the metal skeleton just bizarre.
Have you ever seen what circuit vendors do?
They get electronic equipment and just mess around with the electronics and make weird sounds?
Yeah, yeah, that is kind of neat.
I was going to ask if you'd ever seen Five Nights at Freddy's with the sound that it's pronounced.
Yeah, it's not dissimilar, but a guy about six years ago took several Furby's
that have been modified to produce different tones and then made like a winding mechanism
so that they played them in a distinct sequence and called it a Furby Girdy.
It's a very weird.
It was a very weird piece of gear.
Probably find it if you google it.
It was just utterly bizarre to look at.
Why should we google it when you can google it for us and put the link in the show notes?
Because I only suggest googling things that I know are completely unique.
And have no chance of coming up with weird results whatsoever.
How many things like that can actually exist?
You'd be surprised.
Yeah, man, clever little nicknames like that have been known to spawn entire communities of lunatics.
Yeah, just look at the name of the inix random number generator.
Well, I kind of feel like asking a classic stink dog question.
What has everyone been hacking on lately?
Well, yeah, me too, mostly been messing with mine using it as a server.
Good, my HTPC.
I was about to, I'm getting around to it eventually when I get the other stuff off my plate.
I was thinking to take my Raspberry Pi and making it a little game box on the back of the TV,
which is why I was asking about the PS3 controllers earlier, the wireless ones.
Right, what didn't like emulating old systems like the Retro Pi set up?
Yeah, exactly. Retro Pi is the one I was looking at.
I'm not sure if I've heard of too many people using a PS3 controller with that set up,
but I shouldn't think it's too hard to get it to work.
No, and if it doesn't, I mean, there's a million other cheap controllers out there.
I have a few already a few years, if you really want to go the Retro route,
you can get, yeah, you can get the, they look like classic controllers,
but they plug in USB. They get like classic controllers.
They've been dissected and modified.
Oh, I know, but I mean, there's more reproductions as well, but they look exactly the same.
One that is a reproduction that is seen, I don't remember if it's in any S or SNES,
but it's a knockoff that is Bluetooth connectivity.
I've seen both and also a Megadrive controller.
See, the problem with the Retro controllers, though, and if you haven't used one in a while and
for a while, you may forget this is Nintendo thumb happened for a reason.
And those controllers really, really hurt your fingers.
Yeah, but you get in the full experience, man.
I don't need the full experience. I just need the entertainment value.
And I don't even need that. I just want to show my kids what it was about.
Exactly.
They don't think we learn about Nintendo thumb seriously.
Back we played until we got RSI and we liked it, dammit.
My wife literally got RSI and ended her piano playing career from Nintendo.
I think my cousin's husband really, really messed up his arm playing this one guy on my old Amstrad.
Yeah, you just get yourself like a PS2 or PS3 controller or something that looks and feels
just like it, and you don't have that problem.
Yeah, and I'm pretty sure like most of the modern console controllers,
at least from the most, not the most recent, but definitely from the last console generation,
you can use all of the Mandalinics with that too much trouble.
Yeah, I think so.
Well, you do have to watch out for third party controllers.
Talking about this whole retro gaming thing and showing your kids, Pokey,
I ran across an article a while ago where I talked about a guy,
his son was starting to get into gaming and what he did, he sat his son down with starting
with the Atari 2600 and then moved up through the generations.
And his kid is now like a huge fan of the retro style games and this kid beat
Splunky on like the hardest method it took at like 70 years old.
Yes, yeah, I'd like to do that but I don't think any of my kids would have the patience for it
nor would I. I just, there's a handful of old games that are really fantastic that should not be
overlooked.
See, this is the thing, I think, am I weird or am I the only one that thinks as modern parents?
Okay, yeah, apart from that, I think as modern parents, like anyone who has kids now
should, who is old enough to know something about gaming history should teach their kids a little
of that before letting them play games.
No, not really. I don't think you should impose it on them if they're not into it.
They're just not into it.
I mean, like, you know, I try showing my daughter like old comedy or old movies and she's just
not into it all the time or she thinks, oh, that's a dad thing or so it doesn't always work.
You shouldn't make them do it but, you know, show it to them and then if they're into it.
Well, no, yeah, I mean, that's what I mean is he don't ram it down the throats but you say, look,
you know, all this stuff you like so much now he is a little about where it all came from.
Yeah, I don't know, good luck with a 14 year old boy talking about here.
Play a missile command or, you know, you can't, you can't play Call of Duty
anymore until you've logged at least three hours of jungle hunt.
Ashley, I know kids would love that.
See, Pokey, that's where, you know, the thing is is this guy did it with his son when he,
you know, starting out like three or four, you know, not trying to get a 14 year old to do it who's
already been exposed to the modern graphics and can't see past graphics for gameplay.
Yeah, yeah, I know what you mean.
Plus, I mean, we, we're a generation of people who some of us have got kids that are running up
to the TV and getting frustrated when they bang on it and it doesn't do anything because it
really is not touchscreen.
Oh, wait, we missed a half hour happy new year.
Sorry, happy new years to Venezuela, Caracas, Bar, someone else do that one.
Mark, you know, geez, who can read these things?
Bar, Kwisimito, Mara Kaiba.
Mara Kaiba, I think, is how you do that one.
Happen, yeah, it's all the places Pokey couldn't pronounce.
Pasty white, pasty white, sorry about that.
So, speaking of like retro games, what are some retro games that should not be missed?
The original Metroid, the original Castlevania, and the original Legend of Zelda is debatable.
No, it's a lot.
I would say, well, I think it's debatable when you look at the SNES one of Link Between Worlds.
Well, that doesn't mean you don't play the original.
I mean, original Legend of Zelda is one of the greatest games ever.
With that question, another world.
And it holds up.
What's another world?
It's an absolutely classic game and I'm disturbed that you've not heard of it.
What system?
All of them.
Huh, okay, what's it about?
It's very difficult to describe, but it starts with...
Well, you might just win Ted.
I'm going to ask real quick, uh, FXB.
Are you in the States, or I thought you'd said otherwise earlier?
I'm in the southeast, you can't.
Maybe the game you're talking about was not in the US, and that's why I mean Pokey don't know about it.
No, it was everywhere, and it was on every platform.
It's very peculiar in that respect.
The reason it was so widespread, platform-wise is because it...
Visual concept.
I'm sorry.
You're kidding me, man, yeah.
Oh, that's down to my keyboard again, I'm sorry.
I'll find a Wikipedia article, but basically it was an adventure platformer that...
Oh, I've seen this.
The game's bullshit.
What are you talking about?
No, it's not.
You have played it enough.
You've tried not to fall in the water, and a little weird worm thing jumps
that you and kills you, and you try to jump at the timings all screwed up.
Dude, that game's bullshit.
No, it ain't.
You just didn't play it enough.
Ah, the timing is totally crap.
There is no time.
You hit the button, and you wait a second and a half jump,
and the next time you wait a second and a third,
and the next time it's two seconds, it's all weird.
No, the timing was perfect.
That's the thing.
It was notable because the timing was perfect,
and it was exactly the same on every platform it was on,
which included all of the second-gen consoles and PC.
Now, another retro game, I was...
another two retro games, I will say, are classics that can never be forgotten,
because one, so much is based on it, is Pong,
and the other is Asteroids.
Yeah, definitely.
I never liked Asteroids.
I always don't get that game.
It's a good game, but I suck at it.
Well, I can think of some modern games now that are basically direct
rip offs of Asteroid, like grid wars, and Pupu and Pupu 2 on tablets.
Yeah, the exact gameplay, the same gameplay concept.
How about the arcade games in 1943 and 1944?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
It was going to say arcade games, Galaga.
Oh my god, we had the 43 cabinet in my common room at school.
My mom happens to be sitting in the room,
and I think she would nail me to the wall if I did not say centipede.
Centipede was great.
That was awesome.
With the ball, you had to roll.
That's...
So, it's hard to emulate special controllers like that, though.
That, and like the Akari Warriors controller,
you had to rotate the knob to get the guy to turn the direction he was shooting.
See, I never played the arcade-fishing of Akari Warriors.
I only ever played it on the Amiga.
Yeah, it was bullshit on any console.
Well, if I remember right, Akari Warriors was a different name,
and you were basically playing as a Castro and Chava Vera.
I want to say, I can't think of the right name.
Oh, that I don't know.
It was basically the same story.
There was a game...
Oh, let me actually name one first.
Super Metroid is my all-time favorite game.
That one cannot be missed if you haven't played that, go play it.
But it was a game I used to play in the arcade,
and I have no idea what it was called, and I wish I did.
But it had...
It was a top-down shooter, and you were like a jet or a spaceship or something.
And it was like, in an arena, you were on an arena floor,
and bad guys would come at you from all four compass directions.
And whichever way you push the stick,
the plane would point that way and fly that way.
But on top of the stick, there was a button.
And if you held the button down, then the ship wouldn't turn.
And you could move like, laterally and backwards without turning the ship.
And then your other hand, control the fire button.
And I have no idea what the game was called,
but it was so much fun.
And I could play that game for hours and hours and hours.
Anybody ever heard of it?
Or played it?
Is it Ring of Bell?
I think I played it, but I don't remember the name.
And another game, I would say, is a classic.
But it's a knock-off at the same time of being a classic,
is Ninja Gaiden on the original NES.
And I loved when they came out with the new Ninja Gaiden on Xbox.
And I want to say PS2 also, that that game maintained that level of,
I will grind you up, spit you out, laugh at you,
and wait for you to come back for more.
Yep.
Did anybody ever play Shadowgate?
Was that the adventure game?
Yeah, it was like a point-and-click adventure.
Yep.
I played that on the NES, and I ticked off about half a dozen people I knew
that I went to school with because I beat it when they couldn't.
Oh yeah, we beat it, like, as a family.
Me and my brother and my mother just sat there.
I know, click that, click that.
No, don't touch that torch.
That'll kill you.
And just, it was a weird game because you'd go in a room
and there'd be 50 things to click on,
and 47 of them would kill you instantly.
And every room was like that all the way through the game.
I would say, you know, going back to my comment of, you know,
with Ninja Gaiden when it came back out again,
that it would chew you up, spit you out,
and, you know, wait for you to come back crying for more.
That's one of the big things I've seen the change in gaming over the years is,
games used to whip your butt relentlessly,
and now they are kind of a lot gentler than they used to be.
Oh yeah, they used to be hard.
Like, uh, at your play,
it's a game called Lolo Land.
You ever played that thing?
Hmm, I remember the title.
It sounds familiar.
I don't know if I ever played it.
You were this weird little monster thing,
and it would go straight,
and you were in this room that was almost like a grid,
but with pillars, maybe,
and it was top down, so,
and it was Nintendo NES graphics,
so I'm just barely describing it.
It's just dots, you know,
but you can imagine them in a room with a grid of pillars,
and the way that you maneuvered around the room was,
if you wanted to turn right,
you had to stick your right hand out and grab a pillar,
and then let go of it when he was pointing in the correct direction.
It was really tricky to get the hang of.
It was actually,
I never really got the hang was impossible.
And if you ever ran into anything,
he would just bounce and go back the other way,
unless he ran into a bad guy.
And as you went through the room,
some of the pillars,
as you passed through them,
would turn into like a coin or something,
and then as you flew through the whole puzzle,
the coins would line up and turn into,
like, I connect the dots picture,
and that's how you cleared the level.
And it was really strange and weird with a weird control,
but it was neat.
It showed you the kind of game design
that people were allowed to do back in the day
when they just tried anything.
And it was kind of neat if you have an emulator.
It's fun to play for a few minutes.
Well, talking about games being easy,
switching to a modern game, for the example,
World of Warcraft, when it first came out,
it was taking guilds,
months to clear the in-game content.
And then as they released newer and newer expansions,
the times went from taking them to level up
and get access to the content,
dropped from months to weeks,
and then from weeks to days,
and then from days to hours.
And then they were done.
They had it on farm mode.
I'd say the one that was a little more interesting
was one of the Star Wars MMOs,
where people were grinding away that thing for, you know,
months and whatever.
And then that first Jedi popped up,
and then they later changed things,
and just Jedi's out the butt.
I just remember the MC Chris video.
Nothing? Nobody remembers that?
The only video I remember tied to the Star Wars MMO
was a Fetsvette video.
Yeah, that was MC Chris that did that.
That was MC Chris.
That's what I said.
You like go the button so quick it cut it off then
and then sound like Chris.
Oh, all right, my bad, sorry about that.
Anyone got any favorite point and click adventures?
Yeah, I played one back in the late 90s
that a boss that I had back then gave to me,
and it was, oh man, everybody knows it,
but I don't remember the news.
No, like road warrior or something like that.
Full throttle, maybe?
Yeah, that's probably it, where you're like on a,
it's kind of dystopian future sort of
and you're some biker dude.
And I think the game starts when you crash your bike
or something and you have to spend the rest of the game
fixing it so you can ride off.
That's never really a fan of the point and clicks.
Shame, man.
So much good stuff by then.
Yeah, I was never really,
I've heard a lot of good things about the walking dead adventure games
that have come out recently.
Yeah, people raved about them.
I haven't played them yet.
I've also heard good things about the Game of Thrones series
by the same people that did the walking dead games.
Who were they? Telltale game?
Telltale, yeah.
Yeah, I didn't really go ahead, DJ.
I never really got into the point and click so much,
but at least not like the, the point and click,
like there's a scene click on something,
you know, in the right order and your advance.
But I have always been a huge fan of the isometric style games
such as like the, uh, the original Fallout games.
Yeah.
What does isometric mean?
That's the game you could just go anywhere and do anything, right?
Isometric is the perspective from which it's, um,
the graphics are drawn.
It's where everything's at like a, uh, like a 45 degree angle, roughly.
Uh, I'm not quite sure I'll have to Google that and see what you're talking about.
Also, I think, uh, telltale games did a, uh,
point and click, possibly based around, um, borderlands.
Did not know about that.
Oh, I see you're talking about, yeah, okay.
Diablo and, uh, sim city and stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, I love some Diablo.
And they replayed that, but I played sim city a bunch.
Uh, Diablo is, I, I love that game.
Diablo two, I played Diablo two for years,
that literally years, and then, uh, Diablo three came out,
played that and, uh, found Path of Exiles.
Literally, like two or three weeks ago, um,
that's just like Diablo two on crack.
Did you ever, did anybody ever play you don't know, Jack?
I think I played games like that with some friends,
but I don't think I ever played that particular one.
Yeah, that particular one was pretty outstanding.
It was, it was really fun the way it was laid out.
If you got three people to play it and I, it would be even more fun.
Nowadays, I think if you, you know,
because like with a modern big screen and just, you know,
the kind of nerds where we can have a keyboard for everyone.
So you don't have to share a keyboard.
I think that would be an excellent game to play at a, at a small party.
That's something I've been finding lately.
Does anyone here have a Chromecast?
Anyone?
Um, unfortunately, the internet situation I have right now,
I just do not bother with that because I do not have the bandwidth to, uh,
be able to support it.
Well, now this is the thing.
One thing I always thought the Chromecast to be really good for is party games.
So you have so many people in the room.
They all have some kind of mobile device.
You can put them all on your wireless LAN and be connected to this thing.
And one of the things I found that's really good on it
is there are a couple of excellent clones of cards against humanity
that you can play on the Chromecast.
But I think it would work for a few different styles of game.
Wow!
I could only see something like that working if like the cards were in your hand
were like on your phone.
And when you, you know, clicked on whatever cards you wanted to use,
then it went up on the screen.
That's exactly how it works.
Um, I think, I think the one I've used is called Cardcast.
And the rules work exactly the same the way they would if you were playing with
a printed get back of the cards.
The game selects somebody in order
and lets them see on their device all of the white cards thrown in by the other players
and allows them to judge it.
And then when they've judged it that gets thrown up on the screen
that the Chromecast is connected to.
Why am I the only one that recognizes that cards against humanity is just apples to apples
and that neither game is fun?
Um, because you're a weird anti-social person.
Yeah, I have to disagree because I've had a lot of fun with apples to apples
and I could just imagine, you know, with the kind of demented things I had
cards against humanity being a blast.
Card against humanity is amazing.
And also the advantage that the version on the Chromecast has
is that it can pull down a lot of user-created decks from the net.
What do you call those things?
When I was a kid I used to go to a lot of joke shops.
You know, remember joke shops?
I don't know if you guys remember those.
When I was a kid I'd go to the joke shop.
What did you get that thing you put in?
You like you wear it like a ring but on the inside of your hand and you wind it up
and when you shake somebody's hands it buzzes the crap out of them.
I have those on buzzer.
Wait, what are they called?
I have buzzer.
No, they had a real name.
Yeah, I have buzzer.
Hand buzzer, joy buzzer, shocker.
They had like a dozen different names because
a dozen different people made them.
Yeah, yeah, probably.
Yeah, Lord D's phone is one of those.
I don't know.
A joy buzzer sounds like it should be made by a completely different company.
Easy, easy.
This is a family show, sir.
Oh, I was waiting for somebody to say that.
I haven't cursed once.
Thank you.
Unlike you, Pokey.
We're ruining the family show.
Yeah, you haven't cursed once yet.
You're letting the side down.
Well, when did this become a family show?
It's not, I was just bullshitting.
Exactly.
I mean, at this point, I'm just kind of
seeing how long I can go without actually dropping one.
What's that got to do with cursing?
Don't trust a fart, man.
Just don't do it.
Funny story about that.
I was having some stomach pains a couple of weeks ago.
Believe I was on the phone with Pegwall.
And, uh, well, that explains a lot.
Well, oh, I know the story.
Oh, yeah, you know the story.
So, uh, I'm just sitting messing around.
I don't even remember what I was doing.
I had a good fart coming and just let it rip.
And it wasn't one.
Yeah, I'm sitting there.
I hear, oh, God.
I was like, what?
He goes, I just shit my pants.
That's always fun to hear.
We're just standing in the target.
I had a good laugh, even though I felt bad for laughing, but
there's nothing else I can do.
You weren't there.
Yeah, the bad part is, is it happened twice?
Nope, not asking.
In the same day.
Same day, it was bad.
What did you eat?
Well, you don't have to tell us what you ate.
Just make a note of it for personal reference.
No, uh, I had this something called the normal virus.
And it causes, like, the perfuse diarrhea.
Okay.
Google it.
Just don't do a Google image.
Not even gonna go there.
So, not only do they cause a commotion in the ocean,
yeah, I'm stopping right there.
Oh, God, I love that.
When you've got texts to speech, running a mumble,
and you do a colon and a pee,
at the end of your sentence, let you're doing a,
a smiley face with a tongue out.
It just says it is colon pee.
I like the Wikipedia article to what I had.
Hey, Delwin, what's up, man?
Howdy.
How's life in the fossil farm state?
Well, I'm packing up to move into Anna.
Did you really?
Yeah, we're leaving next week, heading back home.
Holy smokes, what caused that?
17 years of Florida heat in September.
Yeah, no, Voss.
Yeah, so of course, we picked the week to go back when it's supposed to get down to zero.
It's gonna be a shock for the boy, but what the heck?
We're back to Indiana.
That's nuts.
Why not move up the coast somewhere.
George is nice.
It's still getting hot there.
You may find this hard to believe,
but I actually like Indiana.
Yeah, you like that flat treelessness, huh?
Well, there's plenty of trees there, man.
There's gotta break up the cornfield somehow.
Yeah, we put pegging in them.
I remember driving to Ohio Linux fast,
and driving through all the cornfields,
and then I remembered that movie, Children of the Corn,
and then my drive was not so pleasant.
Hey, there is more than corn in Indiana.
We have soybeans too.
Those are lima beans, my friend.
Well, I'm gonna have to call it a morning gentleman,
because it's getting to about five here.
Well, come back after you take a nap, because we're gonna need...
I didn't need effects.
Nine-night people.
Have a good one.
Happy New Year to you.
See you're out.
Happy New Year, all.
Have a good what?
Have a good night.
Happy New Year.
And have a good one.
Later, buddy.
Later, man.
Later, Peggy.
Have a good one.
Bye-bye.
Take it sleazy.
Good one.
Ho-ho!
Everybody, should go check out, you're doing world order.
Did he just post the show?
Yes, sir.
And the video.
Cheaky bastard.
Did you guys see that vlog, the 330 found?
No.
I'll link it, hang on.
I might have to drop off here, stop recording, and watch this right now.
Oh, that's just not...
Maybe we should live stream it.
I put it in the IRC for everyone that's in there.
If you're not in IRC, you should be.
Is it worth putting in the show notes?
It's something.
That's what it is.
Is it show note worthy, Peg Walls?
It's show note worthy.
I'll tell you in a minute.
You know what?
You click on it, look at the insanity, and judge for yourself.
Oh, I'm not in the IRC.
Well, we've got one coming up, and two.
Yeah.
Mine, in fact.
And mine.
This has got to go in the show notes.
And mine.
Well, now, Mr. Clotus, just updating the game here.
Hello, HPR.
It's up, Dr. Seuss.
Oh, holy s**t.
Oh, you're, you just stopped working for me.
Oh, that figures.
Son of a.
Hey, go, you sound all right now.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Where you guys at?
E-S-T.
Happy New Year.
Oh, there's shooting off fireworks.
I'm going to go watch someone blow their arm off.
It's going to be awesome.
Good for you.
Good for you, dog.
Happy New Year to the Eastern region of the United States.
Regions of Canada and 12 more.
This includes New York, Boston,
Rochester, Maryland, Washington, D.C.,
Detroit, Havana, and Atlanta.
Wait, which Rochester?
And Millenaka.
Millenaka, there you go.
I'm surprised that's fireworks that T.J.
hears going off and not meth labs.
Nope, they're doing fireworks here too.
All right, so I have to ask
how did you come up with the nickname Dr. Susav porn?
Oh, good Lord.
Someone had to ask that, right?
I'm guessing it's because you have a couple of good rhymes about it.
Oh, man, I wish I did.
It was an old name off of
Counter Strike days that I just came up with because I was insanely perverse.
But I didn't have any good rhymes.
Actually, the only one I had was a spray I had that said I was
rhymin' for the hymen.
That's not bad.
Stop bad, it's not bad.
So who's running outside and checking on the fireworks going off?
No one.
It wasn't fireworks.
He was going to check out the meth labs flowing up.
It was payroll anyway.
Oh hell, I think I'm from wherever he's at.
I'm waiting for the meth labs to blow up and I'm waiting for gunshots to go off.
Are you in Indiana as well?
Oh no, I'm worse.
I'm Southern California.
Oh, you got three hours to go yet, haven't you?
Yeah, but we have people picking off people in the streets.
You know, you know, it goes west side east side.
All that shit.
Sure, sure.
So we're up in the KKK.
So how is Baker's Field these days?
Oh, Baker's Field's fantastic.
I haven't been there in a while.
I actually, that is a very enlightened society compared to where I'm from.
And you know what?
I have to mess with this push to talky because it is screwing me up.
So I'll be right back.
Did change it to like the grave key or some key that you don't ever use like inner?
Yeah, you know what somehow I put it to my windows key, which is not flying.
Well, you can do your windows key and the alt key at the same time or alt and shift or
what you can use more than one key.
Unless you're like me and you actually use that stupid made a key for something.
Well, I discovered you can use alt shift to paste into like a terminal.
I didn't know that you can use like all shift V and alt shift C for control.
I mean for copy.
I had no idea.
You don't use console.
You use GTK.
I'm a shift insert kind of man.
You can say that again.
I'm a shift insert kind of man.
He said you could.
He didn't say you should.
I did it anyway.
He can't tell me what to do.
What a bad pipe wall.
Now be on for a while.
Oh, so let me tell me to go to bed.
I'm exhausted.
What a bad poke.
Yeah, good.
Bad man.
I spent all day building trends, oceanic fiber optic cables exhausted.
Holy crap.
Tribal space programs come a long way.
What did you just say?
Yeah, I'm guessing that fell flat.
I didn't understand it.
Sorry.
No, I was making a reference to the curable space program.
I don't know what that is.
Oh, my God.
Yeah, what the hell?
I said sorry.
Geez, lay off.
Very fine.
Talk to everybody else and I'll catch up.
All right.
Now I feel bad.
I'm sorry, guys.
Poke doesn't generally partake in video games.
Don't feel sorry and lighten them.
All right.
It's like NASA.
But with, I was going to say very awkward individuals, but that's kind of redundant.
So it's like NASA.
Oh, right on.
It's like if NASA had designed a sort of Minecraft type game to build stuff.
Oh, basically if NASA was competent, what is the name of the game?
Curble space program.
With a kit at Kerbal, a KERBAL.
And what's the platform?
It's on steam.
So it's PC or Linux.
Basically, the objective is to build a rocket and get to other planets and
build basically like bases and satellites and
eventually just spread as far as you can.
Got it.
If I'm not mistaken, it's 25% off right now through tomorrow.
Somebody needs a gift.
Not me, man.
I wouldn't
wouldn't fire up a Windows machine to play it.
You don't need to.
It runs on Linux.
No, it doesn't really.
Yeah, it's pretty well, too.
Are we really hating Windows right now?
I thought this was an equal opportunity, you know, podcast.
Oh, it is.
It is.
Everyone has an equal opportunity to hate Windows.
Oh, my God.
I have to hate it every day.
Oh, man.
Yeah, I've been using.
I have to use it at work and it's it's so frustrating.
Welcome back, Clotter.
Okay, I'm with you guys.
It's like Linux a lot.
I do use Windows for a lot of stuff.
The only thing I am completely against this Mac, but that's me.
See, I'd be more likely to get a Mac than I would to run Windows.
Oh, not me, man.
I've tried Max a couple times and they're just,
I don't know, man, everything about them.
It's just awkward and it feels misplaced and it's, I don't know.
It's like it's trying to get you to behave and I don't like that.
Thank you, Pokey.
That's exactly how I feel when trying to troubleshoot those.
Anytime anyone has a Mac at work,
I, there's a hesitation when it's when someone asks, can you help me with this?
I'm like, oh, okay, maybe.
Yeah, yeah, that's about it.
Well, it's it's gotten work.
Now it work.
I use a Windows machine.
Some of the other technicians use an iPad.
Thank God, I don't have to use an iPad.
Do you break your foot up in their ass?
That's my question.
I mean, that would be the ultimate question.
Oh, I'm using an iPad.
Well, then I'll just screw up your car too and put one pedal in it as the old joke says.
Well, there was that one custom car back in the 60s.
It didn't have any pedals or a steering wheel.
It just had that one lever in the middle.
And you did like a joystick and you could drive with that.
Caboon.
Well, I have an iPad if what I did didn't need a serial port on the computer we used to
dispatch a valid point.
I'll tell you what though, though I have to use Windows every day at work.
And while I it makes me hate Windows more and more all the time, we have a couple of
in-house programs and a couple of in-house programmers.
And those guys are so good at what they do.
And those programs are so nice to use and unfortunately they're Windows programs.
But they're only ever going to be useful to where I work.
So it doesn't really matter much, but those guys are good.
And it's really refreshing to use a really well built piece of software.
Well, it's always a rarity no matter which platform you're using.
Even though Linux has some fantastic programs that are fortunate,
they're fortunate from the community.
But you're right.
If Windows, if there's a Windows programmer that knows their stuff,
it's much better than anything commercial-wise out there.
Yep, it's just Windows itself is such a giant turd.
Windows is horrible, absolutely horrible.
And I'll apologize for myself for the Windows bashing.
I always try not to say bad things or if you don't have anything nice,
don't say anything at all.
And I try to live by that.
And I'll stop saying bad things about Windows when I don't have to use it anymore.
No, you're perfectly welcome to do that.
I mean, that's the thing is we all have stuff we hate.
And to be honest, Windows is not the greatest thing out there.
It's, well, we grew up on Windows.
And unfortunately, it's let us all down severely.
I think that's the biggest problem with Windows.
And well, mostly Windows, I guess it is kind of forced upon a lot of us.
Whether we want to use it or not, it's sort of hanging out there.
And you kind of run into it, whether you want to or not.
Sell your podcast post there, buddy.
Well, I thank you very much.
Video feed now, so people can watch as well as listen.
I stomped all over you, Sandy.
I said, wait, wait, wait, you started off the new year and up the game.
Not too.
Thank you. Yeah.
I figured since I was away from home, maybe some video stuff at last would be worthwhile.
Plus, I haven't had this new job.
I don't really get to mess around with video as much as I used to.
So I wanted to keep in practice.
Well, your video feeds broke in there, but
sounds like I need practice with RSS as well.
I'll fix that.
Thanks.
It's all right.
I'm just watching you porn.
So, you know, whenever you hit that up,
that both of you help with or will not help with.
Both the Adam feed and the RSS feed don't have a post.
I'm guessing it's your old bash script that you post.
Yeah, yeah.
And I just really quickly modified it to include the WebM files.
So I probably screwed something up.
Bug pastors for the win.
So, Father Finch and John Doe Locke Smith are names.
I don't believe I've ever seen before I heard on a podcast.
I know who John Smith Locke Smith is.
I'll bet.
No, John, John Doe Locke Smith.
I'll bet I knew who that is.
I think I met him.
You did.
All right.
Hey, how are you doing?
I don't know.
It's been about a year.
You know what?
For this is an interesting data point.
So I had the LockePix set that you sold me at whatever conference we did meet at.
In my backpack, it was in a pocket that I kind of, I just, you know,
if I was packing to go to New Zealand, I kind of forgot it.
Went through one, two, three, four, four different airport securities and got that LockePix
all the way from the US LockePix set all the way from the US to New Zealand without any trouble.
Is this my way of saying I told you so?
Maybe.
I don't know.
I can't have expected.
I mean, their sharp pointy objects and the TSA is very grumpy these days.
I really expected more trouble.
In general, what it comes down to is tools under seven inches,
which you'll notice that those are under seven inches,
just under seven inches are perfectly legal.
Oh, that's interesting.
Very cool.
No, it worked.
I thought that LockePix is a general were illegal to have on your person, though.
LockePix sets themselves are perfectly legal, as I usually say,
unless you are speeding.
It is illegal to possess criminal tools.
They can be even criminal tools if you're currently committing the criminal act.
Oh, okay.
You know, when I came to Canada, I had a slim jump in the trunk of my car and they confiscated
my slim jump, as well as my LockePix set that I had gotten from the four dealership that I used
to work for, that I was given from the four dealership I used to work for.
The other thing that you can try on that is to have business card that says that you,
in some way, need it, certain IT professions, for example, can have an excuse for having it.
In Canada, not so sure about the laws, but in general,
if you seem like you could have it, there's a good reason you should have it.
It's places aren't going to mess with you.
The laws here state that the only people who can possess LockePixing
utilities and stuff like that are LockeSmiths themselves and sometimes law enforcement,
but that's different depending on the local regional law enforcement agent.
Yeah, that's the kind of thing that I'd probably petition to have changed.
Yeah, I'm not planning on messing with anything that deals with politics.
Well, you know, the pirate party is there for you, sometimes.
I just figure I'll just smuggle it in.
Did you guys in the US hear about the internet party at all that Kim.com was doing here in New Zealand
during the elections? No.
Yeah, so during the New Zealand elections, which happened, like I don't know,
say four months ago, Kim.com, who you probably do know,
well, he's the guy who did, what was it, mega, mega upload, mega file,
what was that service that he had called? What's called? Yeah, mega upload was one of them.
He's done several. Yeah, so he did that. And of course, the US invaded like his farm or whatever
in New Zealand, somehow, I still don't have any idea how that was, you know. Yeah, team leader.
Yeah, it must have been exactly like that. So he's like fighting a bunch of legal battles right now.
And as part of his strategy, I guess, he decided to create his own political party here in New Zealand.
And he called it the internet party. He wasn't running for anything, but he was basically backing
this other person to run. It was pretty bizarre. Liquid democracy.
That's one of the interesting things here in New Zealand. They don't just have like two political parties.
They have like just a bunch like during the election, I imagine there were like eight or ten different
parties running for Prime Minister. How do you corrupt them all? Yeah, I don't know.
I'm not enough in the New Zealand politics yet to understand how they're all completely evil and
devoid of ethics. You think probability wise, it just wouldn't happen.
More than likely, it's the majority, the top two or three are probably the corrupt ones.
Yeah, probably. I mean, realistically. So I guess it's been like about a year now since the
steam client for Linux came out. Does anyone have any feelings on how or whether Linux has been
affected by that at all? Well, what do you mean affected by it?
I mean, affected by it. Like either positively, negatively or at all. Like, I mean,
has it had an impact on Linux at all? I know from my own point of view, I'm trying to
exclusively game now on Linux using this team client. And though, you know, it is
they are DRM games, trying to buy only Linux compatible games, especially during this last
sale. So just, I mean, from an anecdotal point of view. Well, who are you, my hearties?
Hey, handsome pirate. I'm back again for a while. I don't know that I can really tell that
it's had an impact on anything. It's just an outlet that we can get games on Linux easier.
Yeah, that's kind of in my impression so far. I mean, both you and father Finch,
it does seem to be just kind of, yeah, it's it's convenient to have around, but it doesn't,
it doesn't feel at least so far that it's had like a, I don't know, I haven't really seen
anyone taking into consideration the fact that the steam client exists in terms of like
programming for Linux or, you know, using Linux or anything like that.
Well, there haven't been any really big like blockbuster style games to come out and come
through the steam client for Linux. I go ahead. So far, every time I've attempted to run the
steam client, it's crashed and estracing it hasn't helped very much. It's been it good. It just
shows a bunch of function calls that I can't see because they're they're not open source.
I'm running it on Slackware and I've run it on Fedora and it seems to work pretty well on both
those platforms. I have not run it on the default platform of Ubuntu strangely enough,
but yeah, it seems to, seems to work, okay? 32 or 64? 64 bit Fedora here.
I think it does take multi-lib. I mean, I think it does require 32 libraries, so I think I can't
remember. I think it does require a 32 bit. Now I am curious, Clatsoo, what are you playing?
There's, I don't, that's the weird thing. I don't actually play games all that often, but I've found
a couple of like indie titles, like Shadowrun, which is like an RPG sort of cyberpunk thing,
and Transistor, which is kind of a, I don't know, isometric, actiony kind of platformer
cyberpunk thing. Those are the two that come to mind right now. Did you do Torchlight?
You know, I played that from humble bundle. I never, I've not actually bothered putting that on
steam yet, although as I understand my humble bundle purchase included a steam key, so I can,
I can, uh, uh, turn, uh, purchase that via your, your add it to steam via that key. By the way,
Clatsoo, long time no see. Yeah, um, yeah, I've been busy in New Zealand doing work things.
Not talking about work things. I want to actually talk to you about social media.
Oh, good gosh. Why, man? I mean, I, I understand a little bit, but I'd never figured you'd be
one to succumb. I really tried not to. I mean, I, I, I figured when I first got to New Zealand,
and sort of the impact hit me that I had no local Linux friends, you know, and no easy,
I know that I was going to come up with a completely different time zone than everyone else,
like all of you guys. I was like, well, maybe I'll, I'll just like get on like Linux questions
and hang out there a lot more. You know, and I tried to kind of like, I don't know,
find new sites to kind of go to and, and maybe run into people that I knew. And it just wasn't
working. So finally, I just decided I might as well just, yeah, jump on board the Google plus
and the Twitter thing and see if that will help me keep in touch better. And so far it's,
I think it's worked. ARC wasn't working for you. Was the time difference just too much?
Yeah, the time difference was really making it inconvenient. And at work, they, they have the
network completely locked down, mostly because of, you know, the MPAA, but there's also a company
that does a lot of comic book movies, which I won't name by name, but they do a lot of
comic book movies. They're a big company. They're really, really paranoid, especially after the
Sony hack. So the network is just insanely locked down. So I can't get out like to do really
anything. So there's no chance of doing that at work. So yeah, it's just, it was, IRC was not
convenient anymore, unfortunately. Yeah, I hear you. Aren't you the one locking down the network?
Unlock it, man. No, no, I'm not. I do, I do different things.
Clatio, I'm surprised you didn't go to like, a new social or something like that instead of,
like Twitter. I don't know what that is. There. He just said he tried to go to where all his
friends were all at and who's on GNU social. That's always been my thing about that, but I keep
getting more and more pressure recently to actually get on there. GNU social, too, is the old
Identica platform. Oh, yeah, that's what I looked for. I looked for Identica, and I guess it got
replaced by a protocol, and then I couldn't find the place for that protocol was being implemented.
Okay, so it's GNU social is what it's called now. That's, yeah, that's what's GNU social now.
One of the sites is if you want to grab account and account real quick is quitter.se.
Quitter.se. Yep. And of course, if you go over, if you go over and look at the
GNU website there, you can find GNU social down there. Okay, cool. I will check that out.
So, Quitter, you're on, I just found you on Twitter, I believe.
Well, be careful because there were some fake accounts like when Twitter first came out,
some someone was like spoofing me from what I understand. So it has to be like not
clatu or else it's not clatu. It's not clatu and willing to New Zealand.
Oh, yeah, that would be me. Clatu, there's also the one I just
posted into the, the mumble chat there. Several of us are on that already. And now,
cool. Okay. A couple of clients work with it. Mustard is an Android client that works with it.
And status is a client that I used to use and love. And then it stopped working. And they've
just recently got an update. And I'm not sure if they work again or not. But I would imagine
that they did since they just updated for the first time after a couple of years, I think.
Cool. Very cool. I mean, the thing about social media is that, I mean, I never really had
anything against it. I just didn't really care for it at all. And I had no interest in it.
And I didn't understand what purpose it served. But yeah, I guess given the, the ability to
HTTP out into something versus not being able to IRC somewhere, that's kind of been the,
the deal breaker for me. And I imagine that was probably the, the appeal for a lot of people.
So are you able to use the various social networks that work?
Strangely enough, yes. That's, there's no problem there. I guess you can't block, you know,
Google, especially Google, but also Twitter, because like earthquakes here tend to happen.
And strangely enough, like most of the earthquake information gets tweeted out. So it's,
it's kind of like they've really, you know, they're, they're kind of indispensable. And no matter
how tightly and that work is locked down, it seems like those two sites, especially are, are,
are just going to be open no matter what. Well, if you wind up getting on the GNU social thing,
I'm on that now. So what at one point to get around the block, an IRC block, I wound up setting
up a server that would basically forward IRC to Facebook. I set up a Facebook account just for this.
And I could actually basically message to send Facebook messages via the web UI to that
Facebook account and then it would forward them onto IRC for me.
But how did the IRC get back to Facebook?
Basically, I set up, I set up a little bit and I say to all that.
That's pretty cool.
Actually, um, have you traded any of the newer web clients?
Club two?
Well, I don't know. Um, I tried, I tried the one I think on free note, like it was, uh, it's like
the embedded web client. And I tried, uh, what is it? Not xchat, the one for the one in Firefox,
neither of those work. Okay, the one I would try is Kiwi. And then let me get the address for.
Okay.
How apropos?
Yeah, no kidding. I mean, there's this fine line. I don't want to lose my job either.
It's a really good job. So I mean, if it, you know, I'm not going to, I'm not going to,
I'm not so interested in, you know, social network at work, uh, that I'm going to lose my job over it.
But yeah.
There it is. No sticking in the show notes too. I actually, this is an open source project and
you can embed it in a website and it's an HTML5 based IRC client. I actually put it on my
website and it's just a much, much nicer client. It works really well for, for, uh, having people
jump into like, uh, the, the IRC, uh, server that we use for the stream that I'm on for my show.
Cool. That's great to know.
How did you, uh, handle it? Was there like withdrawals from IRC?
No, there was, I mean, New Zealand for the first couple of months was pretty exciting and work
was pretty exciting. So I, I kind of, you know, it's like, I sort of turned a blind eye to it
because there were so much else to, to look at. But then, yeah, after, like, after a couple of
months, yeah, it really hit me. I was just like, wow, this is, this is scary. I, I know, like,
all the people I used to hang out with at conferences, I'm not going to see them anytime soon.
So yeah, it kind of, it was, yeah, it was a bit scary for a while.
That's kind of, it happened to me in my last job where using IRC at work started getting
scary because everything started looking suspicious to everyone. And I was just, yeah, not comfortable
using it. And it was hard, man, I had like withdrawals from IRC and from not hanging out there.
And then it just, like, I just couldn't do it anymore. And when I get home, I really haven't
got the time. So, you know, I, I just, I haven't been in IRC and like, yeah, and probably so long
that my name is probably expired, which is, which is like embarrassing. But, um, yeah,
it really sucks because you just, you get disconnected. And then you have to make do with the
people in the real world, which is hard to do sometimes. It really is.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing,
to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital
dog pound and the infonomicum computer club. And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released
on the creative comments, attribution, share a light, free.or license.
