Episode: 1379
Title: HPR1379: Day two of interviews from OGGcamp 13. 
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr1379/hpr1379.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 00:29:30

---

This is the start of day two at camp 13 and honorary HPR member Pete Cannon is going
to do an interview for us.
Morning Pete.
All right, now we're doing okay.
Oh no, you can do it now, we're talking now, do you want to sit down and you can sit
down here, I guess you're down.
So we're recording right right now, there you go, there you go.
So Vicki, yes, it's on.
Do you want to say hi to the listeners?
Hello everybody.
And I believe, what are you going to talk to us about?
Because I believe you've got quite a few subjects that you'd like to talk about.
Now you say to your head.
Let's talk about the girl guiding.
You're going to talk about a girl guiding.
Now you want to talk about, I think they might let you hear about your ideas for our camp
next year or was it a kid's op camp, I believe?
I was going to say junior op camp, but they came up with a bit and then op camp for the
future.
Because they add the future, the kids add the future.
I mean, all the kids might like that better than junior op camp, it sounds a bit childish.
I like that idea.
So what would you like to see at that sort of movement?
I'd like to see more craft inside as well as the technical side, but maybe if they could
mix the two together because the girl needs to have mixed the two together, they put
craft and the technical side together.
But I'd like to see what the kids could do with, maybe if we started a project and
they could expand on it and maybe they could give some talks as well.
Yeah.
And maybe a junior podcast.
Cool.
I mean, I take it that obviously you want to be inclusive with both boys' angles.
Yeah.
And I don't know about you, just.
Okay.
But I mean, what age would you really like to be targeting with a specific age group or
you're just not bothered?
Well, just seven.
And I'd say that you can pretty much do more stuff, sort of seven and a book, maybe?
Good.
Good.
And I mean, obviously I would take it that you would like some assistance in that maybe
some people could bring equipment, that sort of thing.
It'd be nice if anybody knew or could get sponsors.
Yeah.
If we knew anybody knew about, you know, interested in getting kids into technology that
have been nice because it'd be nice if we could subsidise the stuff, you know, the projects
and, you know, maybe whatever anybody wanted to do there.
Maybe we can get some big companies like Siemens or something like that to give you some
money.
Yeah, I love to come and get the kids into coding and into the future.
Yeah.
And that'd be good.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But about field guide and it's about, if anybody wants to help at any point, then that
would be nice because, you know, my husband's helped us because we're going to get the
brownies building robots.
That's great.
If anybody wants help for just an hour a week, then they're too much.
And what kind of things go on at these girl-guys, because I mean, obviously I don't know.
My children never went, unfortunately.
Right, it's about, it's about just getting the kids involved in anything and everything.
We've done all sorts of stuff.
We went on a bat walk a couple of weeks back and we are building the robots.
We're doing an entertainer's badge at the moment, so they're getting all involved in the theatre and everything.
So it's about these girls, but it's about getting girls involved in anything and everything.
We're doing a county vehicle, like the British Bear Cup Challenge.
Okay. I mean, in my day, I don't know, perhaps you're hoping you couldn't enlighten me and see if this has changed.
You should be sort of heavily church involved, especially in the cubs and whatever.
Has that changed, or is it still the case now?
No. Because of different religions, you're not allowed to enforce that people say
I have to go to church because it is different religions, but we do explore everything
and the work God has been taking out for promised money.
Okay. We do go to church, but we don't say that you have to, but it's a nice part of it.
I enjoy it anyhow. I enjoy that part of it, so.
And so it is an act of fact now. It is a multi-face organisation.
Having for a while. That's cool.
Anybody, if anybody wants to like the idea for next year, I hope.
Maybe.
Well, I certainly really keen on that.
Again, that's one of those projects that's close to my heart, so I'm really keen to assist if I can.
It would be cool.
Yeah, it would be really cool.
I think that would be cool. I think that would be cool.
I've had a little room where they could do talks.
Of course, now that you mention that idea, well, you are going to probably fall to organising that.
So, there you go.
After the brown is away for weekend before now, it's not the organising bit.
Excellent.
Well, thank you, Vicki.
And thank you, Hacker Public Radio, for letting me take over for a short spell.
Yeah.
That's it for now.
Did you have any contact details if people want to get hold of you to help out with your project?
Not us.
Yeah, I am not on the big contact.
Michael Remikens, and he can tell me that's my husband.
If you're interested in guild guiding, it's them.
It's www.gildguiding.co.uk
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Hello, this is Dave Morris, for Hacker Public Radio.
I'm here at Ogcamp 13, and I'm sitting and talking to a friend I made at the last Ogcamp,
whose name is Caddy Ranja.
Is that right, Caddy?
That's right.
I can read your badge, obviously.
So, I just wanted to know how you found this Ogcamp.
What stood out for you this time round?
I think what stands out for me every single time I've come to an Ogcamp all twice a week
is the friendliness and the inclusiveness in the community.
Because I'm not a 20-year-old woman, I feel quite on the sidelines very often.
And it's nice that there is such a feeling of inclusivity among generations.
We've got children here, we've got a baby here.
It's odd luck.
And we've got people up to quite a vast years, really, I think.
So, I'm not the always by a long show.
But I've been made to feel very welcome both times.
And I'm not heavily into coding.
I'm not a developer.
But I've been included, and I've learnt so much.
It's really good.
Is there anything particular that you've seen or session you've attended that stood out for you?
I missed the session I really wanted to go to yesterday.
But I did go to the open podcast yesterday with...
I think it was six people on the panel.
And I learnt a lot from that.
There was a lot of news and a lot of stories that I want to pick up on.
You get headlines and you think, oh, I need to look into that.
And I also went to something called UEFI,
which is a system of locking the boots, boot sectors.
And that scared them.
It scared me, Whitler, so I really did.
I just bought my mother, a new PC, which we've sourced,
and I've just gone out and sourced that.
And I didn't check it because I didn't know whether it's got...
No, it's an easy track to pull.
It is.
Was the outcome of that talk positive or...?
It wasn't as positive as I'd hoped.
It left a lot of questions and I said,
not because they hadn't done the research,
but because there is no clear answer yet about how we're going to get around this.
There's a lot of suggestions and I think one of the key things is,
outcome is a place where we decide what we're going to do as a community.
We make people aware of issues and collectively,
and come up with collective answers.
We spread the word about these things.
UEFI, we need to spread the word that certain organisations,
like Samsung and Dell, are locking their machines
and we will not be able to put Linux on them.
And that is really worried.
It's scary for us as open source advocates.
How is it that they're allowed to do that here in the current world?
Who stops them?
This is a problem.
Yes, we should, yes.
And I think our camp is part of building our collective consciousness.
As an old feminist, we used to have consciousness raising groups,
which usually descended into which was the best soap powder.
It was dreadful.
But this is our consciousness raising thing.
And it raises our consciousness as consumers of technology
to argue about what we need to put forward.
And to act together as a community to fight it.
It's activism in world.
Is it just deciding that they have control over what we would consume?
Can I come do it?
Yes.
Yes.
Yes, we can.
Yes, we can get out there and fight.
Yes, let's get out there and fight.
We are activists.
In coming here, we are activists.
And it's not about a political party.
And some of us might be conservatives on them.
And some of us might be, well, on the left-hand side.
And some of us might be anarchists.
That's where I've been sitting.
But we are activists for certain things.
And it crosses all boundaries.
Yes.
Thank you.
Well, you've got a lot ahead of this.
I have done.
Yes.
And a lot of friendship.
Yeah.
And a lot of contacts.
And a lot of new leads to learn further.
So each time I come back to welcome, I've learnt something new.
And to share and to question.
It's, I've come last year that got me thinking about learning programming.
Because up until then, I haven't really considered that I can do it.
Now I'm on a programming course.
Next year, I will be coming back saying, right, I've got this program to do this.
And I've already worked out what the program is going to do.
I've forgotten what it was.
I thought, oh, I can do that.
I've got to know it a bit somewhere.
And the sun knows.
I am indeed.
Yes.
Yes.
And I'm also going to do one on the...
Well, I'm saying this.
I know I'm going to uncommitted myself.
I haven't tried to minute me into this.
Of course you haven't.
But I'm also going to do one comparing points to under Agile.
Because I've found Agile project management to be very interesting.
I've heard bits of it mentioned in various bits.
And in talks with other geeks while I've been here.
And I had a long discussion about Agile with another attender.
And I'm really interested.
I should go away and look at that as well.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
See you next year.
Yes.
Okay.
Are you ready right now?
It goes that quick.
Hello.
Hello, this is NY Bill.
And I'm with...
Stacey Driver at Ragworm, UK.
And it looks like you guys make circuit boards.
Yeah.
We developed a new service to make prototype in circuit boards in the UK more accessible to the wider market.
So stripped back minimum quantities, minimum order values, made it all an online process
where you simply upload files and dimensions and pay via PayPal.
Oh, good.
And is there a...
Is there a certain limit or a quantity you have to buy or it can be a one-off?
No, it can be a small as a one-off.
So if you've got a very small circuit board, it might end up costing about a pound.
And you can just buy that one board.
So there's no tie in, there's no minimum value that you have to do at all.
And making it really accessible for anyone to go and buy a professional board.
Very nice.
But now I'm from New York.
Can I order from you guys in the centre?
Certainly, can.
Yeah, push it to anywhere in the world.
The site is actually a dot EU site.
We wanted to make it.
So although we're champion in UK, manufacturing, we wanted to make it a service that was accessible to anyone anywhere.
So no matter where you are, you can go on the site, all of your boards, and we'll send them out to you.
Oh, that's pretty cool.
Yeah.
So you want to give out a URL or?
Yeah, but it's www.ragworm.edu.
And you can go on there if you google orange boards or search orange boards.
Orange PCBs will come up as well.
Oh, very good.
Thanks for talking with us.
Thank you very much.
Let's see you going to watch.
You going to talk?
Yeah.
Oh, I'm here with the chief.
Oh, really?
How are you, Les?
I'm fine, yeah.
So how's it going?
Really well.
Really good turnout this year.
Lots of people, lots of things going on.
Did you guys ever think we'd get to 5?
I mean, way back when in that little...
Back in Wolverhampton.
Yeah.
90 people in the Conor Hotel in Wolverhampton.
It's a day after a little radio live, yeah.
It's growing and growing and growing.
Yeah.
450 people signed up this year.
That's amazing.
It's great fun.
So you're running around with the earpiece in.
Yeah, amazing.
You're getting everything.
Agent Smith getting everything coordinated.
Yeah.
Crue of fantastic this year.
As we are every year.
Yeah.
All that to say this morning is, you're here, you're there.
And that's it.
They've run with it.
No more instruction needed.
And with so many crue that I've got, I can rotate them around.
So no one's stuck in a room being bored of it.
They can go out and enjoy themselves.
That's good, yeah.
You're sending them out with walkie talkies.
Walkie talkies?
Yeah.
A few harsh words as well.
You got to keep them in line.
Oh, yeah.
Definitely.
They get a free t-shirt out of it, though.
Free t-shirt?
Oh, payment.
I'm a muck as well.
The stainless steel travel muckie.
You can't beat that.
Hey.
You haven't got one.
No.
I didn't pick a bag at the same order.
Let's see what I can do.
And then for about a £10 note, you'll turn to blind eye
when we throw sparks at certain tables.
Yeah.
That's impressive.
The electrical duties you perform this morning.
We'll say there will be a picture somewhere, but we were stepping
on an electrical cord and sparks went and the whole table went down
and we fixed it with a leatherman knife.
That's the way you should be.
And you didn't.
You just turned the other way.
As long as there was no fatalities.
It was very inconspicuous how you had four people stood around the socket
with their backs supposed to be the leatherman cutting the wire.
And they're asking me an electrician how to fix it.
And all your plugs look different.
And all your wire colors are different.
Like you guys take your own guess.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No incidents.
You've got a one in three jumps.
Okay.
Thanks for talking to us.
No problem Bill.
All right.
Right.
So we're here at the does Liverpool table and got a cool looking stuff here.
I'm with a chap called Paul.
And hopefully he's going to tell me a bit more what this stuff does.
Yeah.
So does Liverpool is a makerspace and co-working space in the half of Liverpool.
And so on our table today we've got, and probably you know,
who is a internet of things character who connects to the internet.
And at the moment every time somebody talks about,
I'll camp.
Yes.
He will blow balls on Twitter.
On Twitter.
On Twitter.
He listens on Twitter.
Right.
And he'll blow balls.
He's been blowing positive balls.
He's been blowing positive balls.
Yeah.
And we also have the map me out where dial.
Which is a location reporting device.
So we've got a couple of hit one, which is probably showing where John is.
One, which is showing where the ferry's at.
All right.
So the big one here with the ferry is at the moment.
You can see the ferry down in open water.
Yeah.
When it knocks up.
It will move out to whichever.
And that's the curry.
Obviously it comes in deliverable.
But.
So it goes into Liverpool.
Yeah.
Go over the water to the way well.
And all the way down.
Oh, if it hits more to the pebbles.
We can just get it together.
All right.
I think that's when it's in Manchester.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
So how many people attend your hack spaces?
I've heard Dan talk about it.
Yeah.
We've got a lot.
We don't really have a sort of a calm membership.
But we have probably, I think, on our books of people who come, we've got about 120 people.
That's quite a few then.
And then we have people who work out of there.
We've got about 12, 13 people who work there on a full-time basis.
Right.
And we're going to also, I think, who are in at least once a month.
Right.
Kind of sort of hot desk and basis.
Yeah.
And we've got a mix of people who are in freelancers or people sort of in working for large companies
as well, who just need a base in Liverpool.
Yeah.
And then in the workshop, we have mostly artists actually making use of the laser cutter.
It's a big, big draw there.
We've got a lot of people who were put inside their designs into sort of multiple forms.
No, there's a video of that happening over here.
Yeah.
Is that a laser cutter?
Yeah.
I'll have to get some photographs and put along with this link to it.
And what have you enjoyed about our camp so far?
It's just actually more just going around talk to different people.
That's right.
Yeah.
So it's a good opportunity to sort of bump into people who don't know from other events.
Yeah.
Sort of catch up with people.
And I'll just see what sort of projects people are working on.
Yeah.
So it's always a good event.
I'm kind of relying on the talks being put up, so listen to your lady.
Yeah.
Well, it's nice to meet you.
Thanks for showing us around.
No problem.
Cheers.
Bye.
Hello, I'm here with.
Amy Mother.
And you're doing a talk today?
No, I did a talk yesterday somewhere else.
Oh.
What was your talk about?
I was talking with someone from the Raspberry Pi Foundation at Wired's next generation.
Oh, very cool.
I just got my Raspberry Pi.
So what can I do with it?
What can you do with it?
You can do whatever you can imagine.
You can make robots.
You can watch television on it.
You can do whatever you really feel like doing.
Very cool.
So now you did do a talk.
Did you say yesterday?
Yes, yesterday.
Yes, but not here.
But not here.
Is there anywhere we can see that?
Is it going to be online?
And there's lots of videos of me talking online if you'd like to see them.
Do you have a URL or a concert?
I think there's a tiny URL, Amy Mother, I think.
Okay.
That's got one of them on it.
Okay.
We'll try and put it in the show notes.
Okay.
Thanks.
All right.
All right.
Oh, I'm running out of battery.
Hello.
This is NY Bill.
And I had Marshall.
And we're here at a booth where someone just told me my make my own Arduino kit.
So, let's try.
Yeah.
You tell Hyperbubble to put a grado above this.
Okay.
Well, any electronics engineer would know how to replicate an Arduino.
But typically in education, it's too difficult to understand data sheets and to figure out how to create your own Arduino yourself.
So, we're trying to curate some of the knowledge that's needed, providing supporting kind of graphical material,
walk through tutorials and so on, so that kids and schools can put together their own Arduino compatible projects.
It's really important for educators, obviously, that themselves may not be electronics engineers,
but building stuff from components on breadboards, not only cheaper, but it's more educational,
because you figure out some of the fundamentals of what you're building.
Yes.
So, you have some different kids here that give out the URL in a bit.
Can you walk us through the kids quick?
Okay.
Well, you've got the core components that you need in any Arduino compatible.
So, that's just the computer, the chip, the microchip at the center, and it's supporting components.
You need to stick it onto some kind of substrate like breadboard or stripboard or solder it.
So, we've got various options here today, including some expansion packs, which come with their own breadboards,
but are designed to deliver a particular project.
This one paints text and icons in the air using just 8 LEDs.
It's an extremely simple build that can be done in something like 40, 45 minutes in a typical workshop.
This is a more complex build, which makes a Simon game from the 70s.
You can hear it here.
I don't know if you put that.
Oh, it's the same sound, too.
Yes, that just actually brought me back, too.
So, that kicks off with a little tune, and then you have to remember the kind of sequence.
We had the big, huge one that the original took 4D batteries.
And so, at this point, I might make a mistake, and then I'll do it.
It's just a bunch of back with LEDs, essentially, a beeper and some custom code,
which obviously, in the process of building it, you see how the things put together.
You see the code when you've uploaded it.
When we encourage people to adopt certain tasks like changing the text that paints in the air,
on the persistence of vision, we're changing the tunes that are played.
They're Nokia ringtone tunes, so it's dead easy to dive into the code and change them.
But, at that point, of course, you've subtly started to get familiar with.
There's code.
There's this development environment.
I wonder what happens if I change that number.
That's the end of the game.
Well, this would fit right in with the Hacker Public Radio crowd.
So, if you want to give the URL, did I ask you your name?
My name's Kevin.
Kevin, I'm sorry about that.
It's called Shrimping It.
We're available online at Shrimping.it or at Shrimping It on Twitter.
So, get in touch.
Any way we can help people.
All of the material that we share freely for people to replicate.
Very good.
Did you have a question?
No, it's awesome.
I'm going to check out the website and...
If you stick around too long, you'll get, you've got, what, £7 through the out of me.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
One thing I would like to say, which is quite important.
What we're doing is open design.
So, if somebody wants to replicate the projects that we provide,
we sell them here at twice our wholesale costs.
But if you're a hack space or a classroom, and you need to make 50 of them,
you should buy them to do it from the wholesaler.
And so, on the URLs on all our kits, if you go there online,
you'll find all of the information of where we buy it and what it costs us
to source all of those parts.
And if you want to scale up to 50 or 100 people, you've got the basic,
the bare bones of costs and all of the freedom that you need to experiment and explore that.
Very good.
All right, pretty awesome.
Thank you for your passion.
Thank you.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, where Hacker Public Radio does our work.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday on day through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever consider recording a podcast, then visit our website to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dark Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club.
HPR is funded by the binary revolution at binref.com.
All binref projects are crowd-responsive by linear pages.
From shared hosting to custom private clouds, go to lunarpages.com for all your hosting needs.
Unless otherwise stasis, today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share a life, lead us our lives.
