Episode: 2002
Title: HPR2002: Just got a Raspberry Pi Zero
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2002/hpr2002.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:09:28

---

This is HPR episode 2002 entitled Just Got a Raspberry Pi Nero.
It is hosted by Swift 110 and is about 14 minutes long.
The summer is excited about having a Raspberry Pi Nero.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello, this is Swift 110 and I thought I'd talk about how I got a brand new acquisition.
The Raspberry Pi Nero got it about two weeks ago from MicroCenter.
What happened was I was there to get a brand new laptop adapter so I could continue to charge
it.
My second one is I had one that died so I was in MicroCenter.
I found one for a very good price and so while I was there somehow it popped in my head
that it wouldn't hurt to try to get maybe a Raspberry Pi Zero.
It's a possibility it wouldn't really hurt anything so let me ask about the Raspberry Pi Zero.
I was really expecting them to say that it wasn't in stock.
I was waiting for the last minute like Sir, we looked around and just we don't have any
at this time but to my surprise I was able to get it that day.
Problem was I didn't have everything that needed to go along with it with regards to accessories.
Make it clear when you're talking about the Raspberry Pi Zero you aren't able to use the
standard size cables.
I'll give you a case in point with the HDMI.
I didn't use a regular HDMI directly into the device it has to be a mini HDMI because
that's the interface.
They had to shrink the ports on the Raspberry Pi Zero so that they could accommodate it
on a smaller board and so also keep the price down lower.
I already had a USB cable.
I had several of those.
I already had an OTG USB cable.
I already have five USB adapters to plug the USB cable in so those were things that just
really wouldn't be an issue to be honest with you.
Especially when I have more than when USB cable anywhere.
The main thing that I needed was the hub and the Raspberry Pi Zero.
I needed the case for it as well.
What happened was just last night happened to be with one of my good friends and we went
to the micro center and needed something.
I forgot what it was he was trying to get.
He was getting another hard drive for his MacBook Pro.
While I was there I figured I'd go ahead and pick up a case.
I didn't have a whole lot of money on me at the time so I pretty much got what I could
and then figured I'd just go to the micro center the following day which happens to be today
Saturday and what happens to be by the time you listen to this it won't be Saturday
because it'll get posted but you won't hear it till later this week so it'll follow
a week so anyway today it's got back from micro center and what I purchased was actually
a micro SD it also came with a micro SD adapter.
I was able to get a 32 gigabyte micro SD card and that ran me about $9.
Initially I was going to get an 8 but why not go ahead and get a 32 it's not very much
more price and plus it'll last longer.
Apparently it's similar to the concept like with an SSD where if you get a larger storage
space that you have better longevity you have more to mess around with and so getting
the 32 gig micro SD card rather seemed to be a very good idea.
I spoke to some folks on IRC and specifically the Raspberry Pi channel on free note and
I got a lot of help from them as well as Hippno he shows up in my channel one time saying
I just really appreciated this now my channel on free note is for the nerds.
I thought it was an appropriate channel name so that's cool and it's not to indicate
a measure of eliteness or anything like we're all bunch of know-it-alls but growing up
I was called a nerd as a way to make fun of me but now I embrace the term nerd as being
a compliment.
So thank you very much to everybody who really killed me going especially through middle
school I digress so I was able to pick up 32 gig micro SD card complete with the adapter
that was $9 on sale from $15 the company that makes it is mtex and it says up to 45 mb per second
megabytes per second whatever that means and so I also was able to pick up a 4 port hub
with USB 2 that was $5 that's made by a company called inland which I assume is like a bargain
I already have a USB micro USB cord like the kind you'd use and cell phones would not
those will be big with it nowadays so that's easy they're everywhere go to 7-11 pick them
up convenience stores pick up USB cables all of that is already available so it worked out
really good the OTG cord I already had that months ago from when I was thinking I could perhaps
plug it into my cell phone I was going to plug it into my cell phone and use the keyboard
for when I use IRC on my phone but that proved to not be something that was going to work so
I'm glad I had this cable that comes in handy ironically enough I have this 5 volt Apple
see if I can read it so 5 volt wall plug for Apple devices especially like an iPhone you can
use it with an iPad whatever it takes forever let me get back to the point of what we're talking
about today now my buddy also gave me this mini HDMI cable which is really the hardest piece to
find more expensive part and of course I already have the pi 0 and as mentioned last night I picked
up a nice little case for it although I wouldn't really call it a case per se it doesn't completely
go around the device actually what it does is it protects it but leaves area to add what is called
a hat to the raspberry pi zero has a cute little flower design on the top of it and it's made
of acrylic so I got an acrylic case for it nothing particularly fancy it costs me $5 and it's okay
I've been I transported the raspberry pi zero in the original baggie that it came in the first
place I wanted to keep it protected and safe while I'm traveling so I thought that would be a good
idea and I'm actually going to go ahead and take some pictures here I'll take the first picture with
the raspberry pi actually all the way in the bag you probably hear me opening it because I took it
out actually I already have pictures of it in the bag so how about I put that aside and just do
it with the case so what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and take a picture you move my phone
out of the way I'm going to take a picture of my setup here and you'll be able to better tell
how this is all going that'll be in the show notes by the way I'm practicing getting better with
those so hopefully we'll work out better that way we've got to have a family here
and probably take these things over so that they look like they know each other might as well
get a coin you're having these very useful so here's my setup
very useful hopefully you're able to hear me pretty good I'm in the Whole Foods just
happened to be a convenient time to go ahead and sit down use the wifi grab a bike to eat while
it's here so I thought that would be something that'll be enjoyable if I need to I will re-record
hopefully I won't have to but pretty much all the ingredients I have are available
based on my current level of understanding which I admit isn't very much I have been doing
some reading but sometimes it takes me a little bit to understand what it goes on to make sense of
I know you hear me opening up the four port hub so in a sense I guess this is an unboxing
as well not exactly a video otherwise probably could do that so I took out the four port hub
because all that packaging is unnecessary I'm going to go ahead and put that to the side
now I'm going to open up the SD card hopefully it's not too noisy I'll see how this comes out
and if I have to redo it then I just redo it people you know they're going to do what they do
so it's okay but hopefully nobody approaches me and start asking questions because I pretty much
look like I'm talking to myself right now people aren't used to technology so it just is what it
is I remember when I first started seeing people on Bluetooth I was like wow everybody's talking to
themselves nowadays but it is what it is so no problem everybody seems to have to go to the bathroom
right now I guess it's just that time but trying to figure out how to get this thing open opening up
the packaging for the SD card itself I could be more rough with it get out with I don't want to
break it I just bought the thing and I don't want to go all the way back to my persona because it's
good distance from there okay so that's out of the case and I'm pretty much
gonna get on my laptop I'm gonna do some reading get some more instructions and I'm gonna set
everything up so once I finish setting everything up then I'll get back on and I'll do part two of
this particular recording this will be in parts where I will discuss my experience with the
Raspberry Pi Zero so expect more things for me in the very near future regarding specifically the
Raspberry Pi Zero and other things are coming up as well also please remember to go to my blog my
personal blog if you go to Anthony Venable 110 pretty much if you put that up you'll be able to
get to my blog but I'll give you the address and the show notes to make that a little easier for you
also I'll go ahead and give it to you verbally HTTP colon for slash for slash Anthony Venable
and Venable is spelled v as in victor e and as a navy a b as in boy le 11 zero that WordPress
that car so I'm definitely on WordPress hopefully you get to my blog check me out comment on my stuff
and go from there look for it to hear from you guys and I hope you all have a fantastic rest of your
evening bye bye
you've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org we are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows
was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is hecka public radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at bmrev.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise stated today's show is
released on the creative comments attribution share a light 3.0 license
