Episode: 2125
Title: HPR2125: My mobile recording solution
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2125/hpr2125.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 14:36:23

---

This is HPR Episode 2125 entitled, My Mobile Recording Solution, and in part of the series,
podcasting how to, it is hosted by Alpha 32, and in about 2 minutes long, the summer is,
how I record decent audio in my creeper fan.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com, get 15% discount on all shared
hosting with the offer code, HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello, heck of a public radio.
This is Alpha 32, coming to you from St. Louis again.
This is going to be a short one, as most of mine are.
I wanted to just tell you about my mobile setup here.
I'm recording this in my van, as I have my other couple episodes, my recent ones, because
I'm always in my van, it seems like, I drive in the creeper ran around, so I got this setup
I'm going to record some HPR episodes.
So how I'm doing that, naturally I'm using Linux, that is my preferred method.
I've got this Plantronics headset, it's a USB headset, I've got this little boom mic,
the hangings down in front of my face, I don't know, I don't know how good it is, my company
gave it to me for doing online classes, use what you got, right?
It's plugged into my Chromebook, that is an Acer C720 that I have decroned, that's
really the reason that I got it, because I wanted something light, and easily hackable,
I guess you'd say.
So I got this C720, 16 gig hard drive on it, standard Chromebook, that's pretty small,
really light, easy to take around, it's got awesome battery life.
Anyway, I've got my headset plugged into that, it's running Gallium OS, which is a wonderful,
really wonderful distro for Chromebooks, through on 2.0 right now, I just installed 2.0 yesterday,
these guys do a really good job, it's based on Zibuntu, they've corrected all those track
pad issues that we've had in the past with Linux on Chromebooks, I can't say enough about
Gallium, it's just a really wonderful project, and I highly recommend it, I am running Audacity,
that's what I'm recording on, I'm using some of the notch majorities tips and tricks
to make me not sound as bad as I usually do, and then I will work my magic on it, on
this audio, export it to AUG, and upload it to HPR, it is that simple, so there you go,
that is my mobile recording solution, F32, sign it off.
You've been listening to HECCA Public Radio at HECCA Public Radio.org, we are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday, today's show, like
all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself, if you ever thought of recording
a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is, HECCA Public
Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club, and is part
of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email
the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself,
unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
