Episode: 2035
Title: HPR2035: Building Community
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2035/hpr2035.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:33:34

---

This is HPR episode 2035 entitled Building Community.
It is hosted by ROOPS and in about 8 minutes long.
The summary is ROOPS discussing some ideas on how to expand the HPR community.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Howdy folks, this is 5150 and I'm here to tell you about Kansas Linux Fest 2016,
which will be happening on the campus of Wichita State University, May 21 and 22.
KLF started last year with the idea that a first rate Linux event could be hosted in
the underserved Midwest.
I think KLF 2016 is the further realization of that dream.
The full schedule is now available at KansasLinuxFest.com.
But highlights for me include Alex Worez from RAC space and Ryan Sypes from Kansas's own
MyCraft.ai project.
There is also a talk on Sunday morning about promoting free software and the role of
the hobbyist podcaster.
Attendance is without cost, but donations may be made on the sponsor page.
Guess who arrived Friday evening may attend a free showing of Revolution OS.
The Saturday night event will be hosted headshots of Video Game Bar.
I know it seems a little late to put the word out, but please don't miss this opportunity
to interact with your fellow open source enthusiasts and professionals in the only venue
convenient to the Central United States.
This is Drupes and this is Hacker Public Radio.
Now I love Hacker Public Radio and I notice that we are in need for some shows.
So I put it on the list that I need to help out, but what to talk about.
What do you talk about on these Hacker Public Radio's?
I think that's the hardest thing of recording a show is not finding the time, but finding
something interesting.
So hopefully some of you will find this interesting.
I want to talk today about growing HPR.
Cool show, it's a cool project, but if our community doesn't grow, the show is going
to end.
Eventually, people stop recording shows.
And so we have to keep growing that community if we want to keep having these awesome things
that we have.
Now I think we do a great job without reach to the community.
We go to conventions, we sometimes get mentioned in articles and magazines, we're cool with
everybody, but as a community, we could do a little bit more to make sure that we get
out to everybody.
We want to make it to that 4,000 show mark.
We want to make it to that 10,000 show mark.
And even my lazy butt can help with these things.
Now first, we need to bring more traffic to the site.
And to do this, we need content, which is really all that we have, so that's good.
But we need to be more clever with how we use this content.
We need to transcribe, and this is a rough job, but we need to transcribe all of our shows.
And this will allow search engines to index our content better, and it will bring more
people to our site.
And maybe some of these people won't subscribe, or maybe they won't listen to a show because
they can just read it.
But they're not going to listen to it anyway if they can't find it.
So it's a big chore, and we would need a team to do this, and we'd need someone to
hand it up.
But this is a community project that we could totally do.
Now I wrote this down, and read it before I say it, it sounds kind of bad, but we need
more popular hosts to guest host on our shows, and to mention HPR on their shows.
And I'm not saying that our guys aren't popular, because pretty awesome bell is.
But we used to do this by sending in bumpers to other shows, like, this is Drew from Hacker
Public Radio, and we love whatever this show is.
Hacker Public Radio is a daily show created by the community.
So let's make a list of podcasters we want to guest host, or host a show for us, or
to play a bumper that mentions our show, and let's actively go after them.
Now speaking of guest hosts, let's work on interview and more people who will put our
show on their blog, or their social media, and we, one time, I remember we did this with
Mocha Five in the days of TWATEC, and we got a lot of traffic from this, and that was
when it was just starting out, and who the hell is hard to Mocha Five.
Now I know we do this currently, but not everyone contributes shows that listens to it,
and this is a really easy way to get people involved in producing content, and getting
our name out there.
Now, I don't know if this would be a go, but what if we made it easier to record shows?
We have an Android or an iOS app to record and submit shows from.
Currently, I'm recording on some Android app I just downloaded, but then I'm going
to have to save it as a way for them, I'm going to convert it to MP3, and I have to upload
it.
What if it was all in one easy package?
We can have a tool that submits show topics, you could say, oh, I want to hear a show
on this, or I want to hear a show on that, or we could do a survey to find out what our
listeners are interested in listening, and that can prompt people to record shows by
knowing that someone will be interested in it, just thinking, oh, I don't know what to
record, show on, you listen to it, or you're reading through it, and you say, oh, I know
about this, someone wants to hear about that, maybe that's that spark they need.
We could get some free stock photos, or even cooler, we could just take our own, and we
could put the show titles over an image with little text on there, and we could use that
to share on social media, because people click on images, and to put my ugly face
where my mouth is, I've made one for this show, hopefully it'll be up there, and then we
can share it on social media, and people could see my mug.
And on that note, how about a video that explains what HPR is?
Now, I think this could be a good troops project, but I'm sure other people could do a much
better job, and that'd be something awesome to share, if there was a video that people
could share on social media, and just explain what HPR is, it's unique in its school.
Now our website, which is a lot of work, needs to have related shows listed on each individual
shows page, so when people come to it, and they find an article, or find an episode about
us, they find other episodes about related content, and that's going to take some sort
of tag system, and someone's going to have to tag all these previous episodes, and
I hear there's a fair number of those, but that would be a really good way to build up
that interest.
Now one of my favorite show formats is reviews of software and media.
I like to hear what people think about things, and there's so much that our community has
in software and media, and I can't keep up with it, and HPR is perfect for this, as you're
using something like, oh this is cool, or you're watching something, you're like, oh this
is cool.
You should do a show about that unique software, or that cool book, or that cool documentary
you just watched.
Five minutes about something cool would maybe lead me into learning more about it, that's
kind of the purpose of HPR.
Right now my class, we have a weird week with things going on, so I'm not really getting
much class time, and what we're doing is we're watching a documentary and what's it called
The Deep Web, it's about privacy, and it's about drugs, and it's about the government,
and it's about all these great things, having to do with the Silk Road.
And we're having good discussions.
We haven't gotten very far into it, we keep pausing it and discussing things, and I should
record a show on that, and kind of tell people about it.
Another idea is, I love stickers, and we should set up an online store to sell stickers
and t-shirts, and this is Hacker Public Radio, so we should probably have tote bags, but
we can leave it in your settlement cost, or we can make a little profit and pay for hosting
or pay for some swag to give away, or pay for a bunch of stickers to give out at conventions.
I think that now when we want to give out stickers, somebody's just buying them, and I think
we could all contribute a little bit to it.
Now this whole HPR project, it's driven by the community, and our community as a whole
is way smarter than I am.
So I think we should put our minds together, let's ask some comments, send me some emails,
and let's work on growing our show.
The more people listening, the more people hosting, the better it is, the longer it lasts.
We all get the benefit.
It's our little utopia.
Anyway, this has been Hacker Public Radio, I've been droops.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution,
share a like, 3.0 license.
