Episode: 2377
Title: HPR2377: A Rambling Drive Into Work
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2377/hpr2377.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:58:11

---

This is HPR episode 2,377 entitled Rambling Drive-Into Work.
It is hosted by MrX and is about 23 minutes long and can remain an explicit flag.
The summary is an attempt at making a show on the way into work.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
It's nothing.
Piled this report.
Very first emerged Police Scotland confirming in September 2015
that an investigation had been launched into alleged irregularities with property deals carried out on behalf of Michelle Thompson.
This is probably the perfect episode to post after my smug episode previously about how best to record a podcast for HPR.
Because this definitely isn't the best way to record a show for HPR.
However, hopefully it'll be interesting enough that the bits you can make out anyway.
It's certainly not up to the highest standards that Dave Yates did.
As I suspect my microphone was probably built on the sensitive side.
And or it was maybe where it was situated.
I had it clipped onto my sharp and I don't know if I had something to do with it.
Being a dictation system and I guess it's quite handy for the microphone to be quite sensitive to pick up around the room and what not.
So I don't think it was a device itself but more than microphone to blame.
So if you want to skip this one feel free because it's a bit rambly and as I see some of it it's not understandable.
But I'll post it anyway just just for the hell of it.
Hello and welcome Hacker Public Video audience.
Welcome to this podcast.
I'd like to start by thanking the people at HPR for providing this service.
Actually it's valuable and it's very easy to pick up a microphone and record something so why don't you post it on yourself.
So I thought today I'd do a Dave Yates and remember Dave Yates and he used to do his driving show and talking about Linux and whatnot.
I really missed that. It was really great to hear Dave on where I go and HPR.
If you're listening Dave it's really good to hear you.
I look forward to hear you posting something else.
I got a chance but I know life gets in the road doesn't it at times.
It's currently Monday the 7th of August.
It's 12 degrees, it's 6.27.
I actually say I thought that just 10 past 6 and from that morning it just takes me 45 minutes.
So from like that I've come with traveling along the A720-70 bypass.
Dave and I are going to go to work.
I'm in the right there what we're going to talk about.
I'm going to start there but I'm a little inculcated nonsense and they might not even keep this
because it's a straight up child.
I'm using a, we voice a call box and we detect it and picked up on him.
I think it would be Ebay.
The whole type, the whole pair of these, when you'd be from China.
It's a data file, it's a very big chip and they record and quality release applies to me.
Very good record and quality.
A little bit of uncertainty, but I'm in the car of course.
I've come to the car a few bits of pieces.
You can supposedly record a conversation for a phone.
A lot of people at the work tried it once, once it's for fun.
They keep it on the E-Clip one.
The E-Clip microphone, which I'm using just now.
That's going to sound.
I think the biggest limitation is that it's supposed to be a bit confusing to start with.
Yeah, it works quite well.
I'm sorry, I'm not a mounting person, and I'm sorry people have lost in their life.
Forcing it in one thing, I said I'm not.
It's a double A-super, a double A-super, and a Monday.
When it was last thing, I'm currently driving a Ford Focus automatic.
Here in the UK, we must pull a drive and an annual or a stuck shift in America.
That's what they call it.
It's a drive automatic, I've done for a good couple of years now.
I'm about a dodgy knee, or should I say I'm driving a manual, I'm about a dodgy knee.
I drive a automatic, I've got a dodgy knee, a dodgy knee, a dodgy knee.
This Ford Focus has done 54,000 miles.
It's been good so far, it was very smooth and quiet compared to the previous Focus I had.
That's the thing, you tend to find when you get an automatic, you tend to go here when you go to the garage to pick it up at the back.
I'm very, very healthy, I don't know, 20 or 30 cars on display, and two of the automatics.
So your choices are very, very limited.
Invariably, they're often the higher-speed models, as I suppose it's handy.
So this is a gear model.
It's got heated front windshields, the wipers, things like that.
The last Focus I had, I was, I can't remember the exact reason, but I was dealing with that car on a hurry.
And so, maybe not, the car had failed, so I went to a local garage, and it was just focusing at Fordcourt.
I think it had something like, it might have been a hundred and
and twenty thousand miles in a clock, something like that, and I thought, it was a bit heavy, but it was the only automatic we had there.
I wasn't necessarily to spend a lot of money, so I, yeah, bought the car.
But I took a photo of it, and I think it struck me with how well it drove, so that it was such a high-mightlige.
And, for now, that was, without any prompting this, for the garage owner said, you know, we would normally have a car with such mileage in the Fordcourt, but it drove so well, but it came up for another garage, and, with the side of the put it in the Fordcourt, I think at that time also, I can't remember the reason, if something we wanted in the country was a bit of a shortage of cars at the time.
Maybe something to do with scrapish schemes, I can't remember, but, yeah, so I had a hundred and twenty thousand in a clock, and by the time I sold it had a hundred and seventy thousand in a clock, and this, this garage, I thought, was only going to last me six months, actually, lasted about five years, four and a half, five years, something like that.
And, mechanically, it was utterly dependable, I think, you know, I might have had a bit of an exhaust change, tires changed, servicing, that was it, nothing went wrong, nothing at all, so I was absolutely delighted with the car.
And, only what came to go wrong was, the first thing that happened, probably when the week, was that the drivers, the drivers window, we'd roll down, we wouldn't roll up.
And, my garage, you know, it's the regulator, I'm thinking, because I'm thinking electronics, I'll try to regulate it, but I think it's a plastic thing that, that's something to do with the window, mechanism, those, a few who know a bit more about cars won't know about this, but I don't know, it's quite common.
I think sometimes you can have nylon cogs that, these six can strap or who knows, I think, wear or whatever, and then, I think, what was the next problem I had, I think I had the problem with the driver's door locking mechanism, and, so, let me think, I think, yes, I could open it from the driver's door, but I couldn't lock it.
So, I had to go down to the passenger's door to lock the car, which was a bit irritating, but, it was a cheap car, and I thought, well, I could go up with that, oh, so, the car was, I don't know, 1700, 1700 pounds, UK here, at the time, this old car, and, I guess, people with a priority, of course, about 500 pounds.
But it turned out to be a really, really good car, so, it turned out to be a good buy, but I said, so, the driver's lock failed, and then, the boot lock failed, so, I had to get a piece of,
a piece of, well, I said, they, going back to the driver's door, then what happened was that, when I opened the passenger door, I didn't open the driver's door, so, I had to lie a bit of string from the door handle onto the passenger seat, and I give that a pull, and that would unlock the door, so I was able to avoid annoying, and then, the boot lock made some failed,
and I had to have a good time, I think, a string on that, so, I could open that, and the final, on the coffin, was that, I was finding it, I found that, it was starting to tease a tiny bit of oil, very, very little, which, in itself, wasn't a problem, and not unsurprising for a car,
I was 100,000 miles, but, I was finding it very, very difficult to get into the, the bonnet, you know, where the engine is at the front of the car, I couldn't get into that, and, I was finding it very difficult, and I managed to get into it once, and I thought, well, this is ridiculous, because, you know, now that it's usually going to be touching oil, every month or so, I need to put a,
put a oil on, and I can't get the, the bonnet open, and then, it's going to run out of oil, so I thought at that point, now that I've got so many things, so, so many, you know, mechanically things, going wrong, and it's now time to get into the car, but, as far as the engine and, you know, the gearbox, and steering, and all the important things to the car,
they continue to work, to the day I got rid of the car, drove, still drove, lovely, so yeah, that was a good, good car, yeah, I'm 100,000 miles, that's a little liable, other than locks and such like, that was a weak point,
I think the, the trouble with it was that Ford had some sort of security key, was kind of round key, I think they, they tended to wear, but I mean, I suppose it was such a high mileage, I must have opened, closed, opened, closed, opened, closed, and, I'm, I'm expected, wearing the car, you know.
That's a, the sun's very low this bonding, that's a, meet my eyes,
it's now 640, 12 degrees outside, tip counter, 1663.5 miles, cars done, oh, so down, 54,000,
507 miles, it's nothing is it?
Let's say, one thing about this car, it's, it's a new car I've got, new car over that years when I, and it's not new, but any means, it's, it's quite un-economical, it's a 1.6 petrol automatic, it's a new car I've got,
and it does, when I first got it, I think it did a bit, 27 miles to the gallon, something like that, and I think when I got it and I started driving it,
if anything, the mileage actually kept down a bit as well, so it wasn't like they were driving, you know, the previous one was driving with the lead foot, I think it was being quite well looked after really, other than the, I always had been curved quite a lot, I think it was used to the school run,
but I think it must have been about that, oh I don't know, must have been over the pace of a year or so, the miles per gallon kept up, kept up and it's still keeping up with that,
and it's now according to the, on the computer doing 32.2, maybe that's not a bad one, 0.6, what's the matter, I don't know,
compared to more modern cars, they deal up more miles per gallon, the wife's car does 44 to the gallon,
and I call it, what, he's got a hybrid and it does 70 to the gallon, so yeah that's pretty good,
well that wasn't supposed to be a, I don't even comment here about my car, but I couldn't really think of anything to talk about,
we didn't find it too boring, I'm just approaching my destination at work,
just pulling into the gate,
I don't know whether I should post this or not, it seems like all the old rambling rubbish,
and I'm just supposed to need to check the quality as well, because I'll buy something to go through,
roll the window down, so nice to have a window that rolls up and down, that was nothing I had to roll the window back up again,
but in the past with the previous car I had to get out of the car, use my pass,
and clamp it back into the car, into the car, that was fun in the middle of winter,
yeah, that's a 10 miles per hour limit here in the company car park,
and that's a basic amount of me, and he's doing the same speed,
what a bump, stop it, just a bit to park up, sun's so big, I can't see the edge of the car,
I'll come up a bit far out, I might just go back up,
that was me opening the door, so I could check what was the curb,
and the car warning me, oh you're driving with the door open, I know I'm driving with the door open,
I'm no daft, anyway I've reached my destination, I still don't know whether I'm going to post this or not,
well, anyway if you're listening Dave, a bit great to hear from you again,
anyway if you want to contact me, I can be contacted at MrXHPR at googlemail.com,
that's MRX, ATHPR, the art symbol, googlemail.com, so until next time, thank you, and goodbye!
This year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year
This year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year, this year
Come and a Suntoday Show
Relax E-mail the host directly
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
Unless otherwise status
Today's show is released on the
Creativ 지금
