Episode: 2976
Title: HPR2976: A walk through my PifaceCAD Python code – Part 4
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2976/hpr2976.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 14:07:32

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 2976 for Monday 30 December 2019.
Today's show is entitled A Walkthrough My Perface CD Python Code Part 4
and is part of the series A Little Bit of Python. It is hosted by MRX
and is about seven minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summer is.
This is the last show in the series and covers the main program section at the bottom of my script.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15
that's HBR15
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Hello and welcome Hacker Public Radio audience. My name is MRX
and welcome to this podcast. As usual I'd like to start by thanking the people
HBR for making this service available to us all.
HBR is a community led podcast provided by the community for the community.
That means you can contribute to why don't you pick up a microphone and record something.
I'm sure you must have something we'd all find interesting to listen to
and you might even enjoy it.
This is the last part of my walk through my PyFace script.
It controls the PyFace CAD PyFace control in this playboard.
This is a top-mire as great Py.
I recorded this all in a one hour and said it was far too long
and split up into chunks.
This last chunk is just really tiny so it's almost too small
but hopefully this will be the beginning we'll put it out a bit.
I hope you haven't all fun or sleep listening to this series.
It basically covers the main part of the program
which is actually at the bottom of the program
and this main bit calls all the other functions within the program
so it's called the main program.
It basically sets up things and allows you to cut out the program.
There's also some notes that I briefly mentioned at the end of the script
which gives you a helping guidance in setting up luck Linux infrared control.
It allows you to use infrared basically.
It lists the kind of files and utilities that you need to get luck working.
The text explanation in the script is probably a bit better than my comments
that have covered in this episode.
You'll glean some useful information from the end of the script
which I'll just keep just for completeness might find useful.
If you ever decide to do something similar or do or play with luck
and have as brief buy whatever you might find that useful.
Anyway, set it back and enjoy and hopefully don't be too bored
for this final episode of this.
It's so small it's hardly worth listening to.
Okay, cheers.
Finally, on the main program which initiates the PyFace module
turns on the LCD backlight.
Well, it's to do writes a message, it's just a map.
I think clear as a screen writes waiting for IP
to run through the IP function to check if I've got a valid IP or not.
Once that's happened, it activates.
It starts listening for events on the eight buttons,
number zero, one, two, three, four, five, six, and seven.
I think it also listens on, also listens for,
then it goes on and listens for infrared activity.
Turns in for red on.
It runs getHPRQ and displays that to the screen
so that you know how many shows are available in the queue.
And then it prints EnterQ at any time to quit.
And so if you hit the Q button,
then that's how you quit with the program basically.
I've got a whole lot, a whole host of other bits of information,
about IR and infrared information.
That was a bit of a faft to get going at the time I remember.
And I kind of got some notes about what different files were used
and tools and whatnot and what they do.
I'm going to go to lurk, IR record, lurkd.conf, IRW, lurk, RC.
And I've got a file that's got remote control keys.
I've got them from all on remote control.
So it's currently sitting at the very last line on the,
with hashies on it is line 1,269.
Crikey. Could you follow all that?
I'm just, I'm going to have a look.
I'm just looking, this is now at 44 minutes,
just across the 44 minute line.
Oh, I'm going to have to definitely break this up into a few pieces.
I do apologise, I hope you gain something from this.
It's just, I knew it was going to be a nightmare to cover all this
and it's going to bore you all to death.
All I can do is as apologise.
And, well, that's about it.
If you want to contact me, I can be contacted at MrX,
at HPR, at googlemail.com.
That's MRX, 80, HPR,
the at symbol, googlemail.com.
So until next time, if you can face it,
thank you and goodbye.
You've been listening to Heka Public Radio at HekaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday,
Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Heka Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
