Episode: 2998
Title: HPR2998: 2019-2020 New Year Show Episode 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2998/hpr2998.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 14:52:54

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 2998 for Wednesday 29 January 2020.
Today's show is entitled Hacker Public Radio 2019 20 New Year Show Episode 3.
It is hosted by Kevin Wischer and is about 153 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
eighth annual New Year Show. The U.S. is awake.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honest Host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honest Host.com.
.
.
.
.
Anyone got the rear zone? Yes, I've got my ears on. Just had to shut down.
Just had to shut down something before the push to talk.
Scramble to editing. Good evening, anybody.
Hi, Kevin. It's Tony. Hey, Tony, how are you doing?
I'm not too bad. What about yourself?
I'm doing fine. I've been minding the stream
and kind of started doing some editing on the first episode here,
gathering up all the files. Wow, that's quick work.
I want to know if Honki was around because since he usually does
the final editing, I thought I'd talk to him about doing some of it for him.
He's currently, he's got his mic muted on.
So in the years past, I don't know when Honki actually took over
doing all the editing and publishing, you know, posting all the shows.
And last year and I see why it takes so long to do this.
He didn't get the first episode posted till June.
And I thought, well, I just got to be, you know, he needs some help.
I mean, there's no sense of one person trying to do this all himself.
And since I saved and scrimped all summer to get myself a brand new computer,
I thought I'd take advantage of having this new computer to do all this audio.
And so, but what the dilemma I'm seeing is nobody is filling in the show notes
as they go along.
And so I'd listened to the first eight and a half hours.
And the first part of it was pretty good.
People did put in some things and I just kind of filled in the blanks.
Well, then after that, it's nothing.
And so, and so, and I'm, you know, I'm used to listening to all my podcasts
at 1.6 speed.
And to listen to all this at one to one, and with all, you know,
and I'm skipping the big silent spaces, of course, but still going through eight and a half hours
at one to one speed and then typing in, you know, some somewhat descriptive show notes.
And I didn't know if anybody would get really ticked off.
Forgotten the detailed show notes.
I don't, I mean, I never look at them.
I don't, not for the new year shows.
Anyone tend to look at the short show, you know, the normal regular releases,
but that anything over when we're doing the new year, I just treat it as a chat
and enjoy listening to what was going on at the time.
Right.
So, if I'm less in the, yeah, even though I've participated and,
and kind of listened in live, I still listen to the published episodes,
even then, and then if there's something, you know, a topic that I don't care
to listen to, just like any other show topic, if I don't want to listen to it,
I just skip over it, you know, it's not that big a deal to me,
but I don't want to piss off the community.
Yeah.
And, and like you say, these people all look at the show notes and think,
now that particular new section of the new year doesn't particularly interest me,
and they'll wait until the next one comes out.
Yeah.
So, I guess I could send an email to the email list and ask everybody's opinion,
but there's not that many people that actually participate in a poll
when you send out a question like that, so I don't know what to do.
How many of we got in the circulation list in the email circulation list?
Ah, I don't know Ken or Ken.
I'll probably be out there.
Ken or Dave would probably be the person people to ask about that.
Yeah.
It was like, there was a question about during the year,
there was, there's been that issue about creative, common stuff,
and then recently there was something that Ken put out that I contributed
to quite often, what comes around on the bulletins isn't particularly something
that I respond to all the time.
But it beats a community issue, and I tend to try and respond just to add my voice
to the mix, particularly when it's Ken and Dave needing a bit of support on an issue.
Anyway, Kevin, what was your new computer?
I went with a Ryzen State Core, I can't remember the exact number on it,
but it actually shows up like it's got eight when you look at H top,
with 32 gigs of RAM, and I had already had an SSD from my previous computer
that I was able to use, all the hard drives I was able to swap over.
So I just bought the motherboard, CPU, the RAM,
and a new 10 Nvidia 1032 graphics board.
Yeah, Ryzen will build?
It's the first new computer I've built for myself in a number of years.
I do computer repair on the side, and I've always just been able to build myself
Frankenstein computers from people's computers that they give me.
So I just thought, man, I really like to have a new computer,
and so I can say I skimped and saved all summer from some computer jobs.
And which did you put it together for in the end?
Well, and I also included a new case.
It was just over 600 with the case.
Quite reasonable.
Yeah, I'm thinking of the either building or getting myself a Ryzen system.
I've actually found a computer supplier builder,
that they're in Germany that shipped to the UK,
and they build Ryzen systems and have seen one that's recently priced,
depending which one to go for.
It'll be somewhere between about $400 and $700.
Your money?
Are you comfortable doing it yourself?
I can do.
I've never...
Yeah, I know I have.
I've put CPUs on to the board and pasted them and everything.
But technology has changed so much,
since I last built anything.
There's a website that's called PC Park Picker,
and that will walk you through.
Once you go through, pick out the CPU you want,
then it kind of steps you through buying all the other parts that you don't.
Because I'm like you, it's gotten so outrageous,
though I don't understand even the sockets and all this other stuff
that you've got to watch for, like your memory,
the memory types and the expansion slots and all this and that.
Well, it'll walk you once you pick your CPU,
and it'll only bring up the motherboards that that CPU will work in.
Yeah, one of the things...
I don't know if it's the same over your neck of the woods,
but one of the things over here is,
if you buy a pre-configured system that you've bought off the shelf,
all the parts are tested together,
you get a warranty and all that,
everything worked in together.
Unless you go to, obviously,
a specific Linux vendor,
you're going to obviously get something that's been built for Windows,
but you don't necessarily have to have an operating system installed.
Or you know all the hardware works together,
that's the main thing.
Because these companies are buying in bulk,
they can probably put the system together
that might cost you even $150 more to build yourself
than buying it off the shelf.
That's probably wouldn't be bad.
That's not bad, $150 more for that piece of mind, I guess.
No, I'm talking the other way round.
It's actually works out about $150 cheaper
because they're buying in bulk,
and if I buy it, just single components and put it together.
Oh, $100 more to put the same system together.
I see.
Because they get bulked this count,
because they're buying, you know,
they're buying a thousand sticks of RAM at one go,
or you know, a hundred motherboards or whatever.
So they get in the best prices.
So by the time, by the time you add it off,
it's either very little difference that you can save on,
or you can actually click cheaper,
the shop around.
The killer is postage,
especially if it's coming from across Europe.
Actually, I got lucky with the new machine this year.
Yeah.
Home and 17 inch laptop.
Right, I am bought a new laptop.
Well, I've never had a new laptop.
All the laptops I've ever owned in the last 20 years.
Best part of 20 years have always been second user machines.
Well, I'm second user for this.
My brother, who's the trucker,
found it to be too big for his needs in his vehicle.
Yeah.
So I got a
Christmas present this fall.
Yeah, it has 12 threads,
250 gig SSD,
terabyte spinning rust,
72 hundred RPM.
Have you thought about swapping the spinner around for SSD?
No.
The boot drive is a VME SSD.
All right.
So you've got an SSD as a boot and the one gig.
The one terabyte is the storage drive.
Actually, what I need to do is start loading it up a little bit,
because of running three screens.
It's got Optimus graphics of YouTube is just the machine is loafing.
All right.
I may make it a serve.
Oh, well,
put some server stuff on it in the background.
Oh, yeah.
For my main machine, I tend to go for a tower.
Then I use me,
Dell or one of my touchiebers is the one to use around the house,
if I'm not in the office.
Well, I'm just saying this gaming machine,
which had had windows 10 on it for a little bit.
Dropped in my lap,
and I'm not going to look.
So somebody drops a collidesdale team in your lap.
It's, you know,
it's a shame to refuse it.
Oh, do right.
I had a similar thing gotten to me a few years ago.
My brother-in-law had had a really good i7 machine built for him.
A couple years previously.
And then he decided,
because he was using Macs at work.
He decided to go Mac at home,
and buy him, so he bought himself an Mac.
And he just had this i7 stuck in the corner.
I think he had a 22, 23 inch flat screen with it.
The whole works.
And he bought this all in one iMac.
And we went around for Christmas dinner.
And he said, oh, I've got this computer.
You do computers, don't you?
I said, yeah.
Because I bought this Mac.
He said, you can have it.
Link it in the whole system.
Doesn't matter.
Sounds good to us again.
Yeah, well.
This one is.
Is a is a nice system.
I've got to figure out what I'm going to do with my 40 inch screen.
Because I have a limited number of machines that will drive
HDMI.
And right now,
although what I would really like to do
is get a Raspberry Pi,
put it on the 40 inch screen,
and then work with it through some kind of remote desktop app.
Yeah, a team viewer or something like that.
Yeah, something.
Although I'd like to have something that's not.
It doesn't require.
Team viewer in the free version.
I believe still registers itself with the team viewer HQ.
Right.
Okay.
The free version.
Also, you can only get like 20 minutes at a time connection.
I've never used it long enough to hit the wall.
It's annoying when you're trying to.
I purchased version 12 for my side business rep support.
Because it got to the point where they started locking down the free version
for the amount of time that you could be connected to.
So that's why I made a bit the bullet in version 12.
So I've still stuck with that version.
Clients are stuck with version 12,
because it's not backwards compatible, of course,
because they want you to buy the pay for the next version, of course.
Yeah.
I'm.
Ideally, I'd like to have.
Have it come up.
As another desktop or screen,
but I may have to go to something like.
Or what I used to have it on the tip of my tongue.
To run independent applications on it off of the main off of my main desktop.
Keyboard and mouse.
Your land, if you want to open up a port on your firewall,
but just doing stuff over the land,
X to go works good.
And also just a straight VNC for like.
I can't remember the name of the ultra VNC Tiger VNC.
I think I can't remember the specific one,
but there's several VNC packages available
on all the repos that worked real well.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, I've got a gigabyte land.
And the machine will just be coming off of this.
I have a.
Switch here.
So the pie would be running right off of right off of the switch.
So it's going to be like no.
No latency.
Once we make a first connection.
I haven't dealt with X to go,
but.
Right.
I really need to work on getting my computers working as a network.
Just a bunch of computers funneled down into the internet.
I don't have very good cross Army.
And I haven't developed the technology of cross connection.
I mean, I can SSH and everything here.
I just haven't gone to that level where the network is worked as a network instead of.
A bunch of separate extensions to.
To the internet connection.
Yeah.
No, I don't know how to do all that stuff.
It baffles me all that network stuff.
Well, one of the things that I'm looking forward to with weland is that they're working on.
Restoring the internet transparency,
which X has lost years ago.
Of course, I'm old enough to go back to the days when X terms were.
The new and upcoming thing over at MIT.
All right.
But then again, I'm also.
I knew some people who were running their.
Student run.
Accounts management on the big honey well.
So you didn't answer my question.
What do you need a graphical desktop environment on a Raspberry Pi 4?
Well, what I was going to do was use it as another screen.
And damn, I know barrier is one is the new thing for that to allow you to share keyboard and mouse.
I'd like to have the Raspberry Pi.
Maybe working on some basic internet references or stuff like that.
While I'm doing other stuff on a dual screen on my dual screen test.
Basically, I'm trying to emulate display link.
You'd almost be better to if you got the horsepower on your main machine to spin up a VM.
You'll get more processor power and graphics performance out of that than you will apply.
Well, that's, that's just it.
I'm looking to.
Have the pie.
Behave basically is a headless X term, just another screen.
For very.
Just for reference stuff.
Then why then if I'm going to do a motion video, I'll do all of that on on my desktop.
I don't need a lot of horsepower just to look at.
And why not just open a second browser or another tab.
Because my other machine.
Because I'd like to keep.
I like the multiple screens.
I had a lot.
I like having just a reference screen and two screens I can run videos on or what have you.
Do not like you say you got to do a monitor to use multiple workspaces.
No, I do not use multiple workspaces.
Maybe I should look into that.
I mean, the rest of the new Raspberry Pi is just now I'm getting to where I think it could be a viable desktop replacement for light duty stuff.
Like what you're talking about doing a web browser type reference, whatever you're talking about reference.
You could have two or three different browsers running on a desktop or a laptop that's got enough.
That's got at least eight gig of RAM and be more productive and trying to run a VNC types graphical session to a Raspberry Pi 3 or lower.
So I would, I mean, I don't think you're getting much, but doing that unless you want to set up a second PC in place of the Raspberry Pi if you absolutely have to have the other screen.
It's all personal preference.
I mean, that's just the way I, I mean, I use, I got dual monitors and I use two desktops to work spaces so I can, I can have multiple things going on on one machine.
Well, my desktops are first generation APU AMD APU so they don't have a heck of a lot of horsepower processor was.
But you're just doing web browsing a lot of what I'm doing is web browsing, but I'm with I'm running into the wall sometimes on Firefox and whatnot.
I could probably get more horsepower out of them, but I'd have to replace the power supply because the model, the machines that I've got are known to have limited power supply overhead for for anything like a serious graphics card or whatnot.
Again, what do you think a pie has a high power graphics processor? I mean, what I don't understand your reasoning for a pie versus a standard dual, even a dual core computer with eight gigs of RAM is going to do better than a Raspberry Pi.
The other thing about even the Raspberry Pi for at the moment is even though they've come out with a few firmware fixes, it's still got thermal problems as well.
You definitely need to use some at least passive cooling, if not active cooling.
That's part of why I haven't jumped for it, but also what I'm going to be doing is adding a few brains to my TV and I've run into problems with driving it off of my ordinary video card.
Yes, and I'm waiting for the pi Ford to catch up with the Pi 3 in some of the video areas.
Also, I'm not real chuffed that the Raspberry Pi for needs, if you run dual screens, you have to have the same resolution on each.
Yeah, see what you mean. You supposed to be able to run two screens at 4K, aren't you?
Yes, you're supposed to run at the resolution, but again, the Pi 4 video side is still relatively poor supported, which is why I would use that for my less challenging applications.
I'd like to take a break here to welcome into the new year for Greece and a few more Cairo and Cara, Athens and Bucharest. Happy new year.
Yeah, happy new year. We're at UTC-2201.
Yep, that's why I'm showing next up Europe. Well, West of Europe anyway.
So, Nettminer, tell me about your most high-powered desktop units that you call your main workstation or even if it's a laptop.
Tell me what specs it is. Did he hear me?
No, no, he's still got his mic out in accordance to the mumble. I'm just going to dip off for something now. Talk to you in a bit, Kim.
Okay, see you.
Guys, well, following MIT back in the last century, I run across the discarded manual for an IBM product to manage OS 360.
It was an interesting example in there of virtualization.
The basic product required a small 360 to manage a larger unit. OS 360 was a bit of a dog as far as management interfaces were concerned.
What fascinated me was that while the basic product used a channel to channel adapter in a complete separate CPU to run its management functions, there was a function where the product could be run inside a very large 360 with a virtual channel to channel adapter.
So, one half of the machine ordered the other half of the machine what to do. And all of this was done in basically a real-mode memory environment.
Hello? Hello?
Sorry, I had to shut down another application before I could use push to talk without messing up some editing I'm doing.
What are you editing?
Oh, just some old stuff that I wrote. Science fiction.
Ha, ha, ha. Well, you had to shut down editing so you could use audio.
The editor I'm using tended to capture the push to talk key.
Oh, yeah, whatever makes somebody use them.
NotepadQQ.
Is that a QT application?
Yes, it is QT and it's a clone of the Windows Notepad++.
NotepadQQ.
Is that notepad-QQ?
Nope.
Gemini's holiday.
So far?
Oh, it's been very quiet. My back has been kicking up, but it's been extremely quiet.
I've just been trying to keep my back working and just get through.
I don't have many relatives in this area and my nearest relatives a couple hundred miles away and I don't try.
Let's take a lift, right?
Ha, would be really expensive.
Yeah, also, it's an elderly aunt, so it would be an intrusion.
So what tax editor?
Is notepadQQ your preferred tax editor for everything?
Well, I like it because it has a variable font and some visual cues and stuff.
It's fairly simple.
Do you use it for just more than editing your writing or do you use it for like configuration and administration too?
No, for configuration stuff, which I don't do much of, I use nano.
I'm definitely not an EMAX or VIM guy.
Do you have difficulty switching to other like tax editors?
Or is there anything that does tax the input after you've been using any, you know, your preferred application for a while?
I don't have problems, I don't touch type and I've been doing text editing since back in the days of DOS.
I've handled probably half a dozen or a dozen editors with different characteristics.
I personally prefer VI improved and I'll tell you what, anytime I get into another editor, I can use them, but I always end up trying to find whether they have a VIM mode and I enable that.
And then eventually I just go back to using VI because I work, like people are like, they all swear by either WebStorm or Visual Studio, the new one.
Is it Visual Studio Editor? Is that what it's called? Is that the new one that is cross platform?
Kind of works like Google Adam or even WebStorm or whatever, Eclipse has got to plug in.
We're just about almost any language, syntax highlighting, code completion, garbage like that.
Well, I haven't been doing much programming and I certainly haven't been keeping up with the modern Microsoft stuff.
As I said, I have not soaked myself in either the cult of VIM or the cult of VMAX.
I like to try like every couple of months learn a new feature of VI improved.
Some people call VIM, some people call VI improved. I don't know what the correct way to call it ever is. Some people get bent out of shape if you call VI.
So you have VI and you have VI improved and they're not the same thing.
Because if you view Slackware, you get Elvis and Elvis is, I think, the default on Slackware. I think even Ubuntu defaults to, there's certain features that you have to install for VI improved.
And there is a subtle difference, things that if it's just pure VI or Elvis or another derivative and you're used to VI improved, it might not work in the same way that you expected to.
Yeah, well, back in the day when I was doing more programming, I was fascinated by writing my own plain text editor and I studied a lot of that.
And I'd like to tackle it again, but I'm not really interested in going down a rabbit hole of trying to deal with X windows or what have you or even the X term.
What were you writing your own text editor? What language were you writing that in?
Power basic.
Wow, what platform were you writing it on?
DOS and I was also working with free Pascal on an extended DOS platform.
Oh, neat.
But trying to try to retrofit MSDOS with long file names and some of the other features that free Pascal really needed was quite hairy.
Take a Pascal is still around, isn't it?
Oh, Lord, yes. Although nowadays they're leaving going into a more delified version called Lazarus.
Was Delphi the one that did pass, like, was that Pascal? Delphi put that out?
What was that just one version of Pascal?
Borland had their Pascal, which went object oriented and when they jumped to serious windows support and when windows grew into more protected mode stuff, they went to something that they called Delphi.
And now the free Pascal, which started out as a turbo Pascal compatible is also jumped to the object oriented rapid prototyping, whatever you want to call it, of Delphi.
No, at least Lazarus is still going to drop 2.0.6 release November 1st, 2019.
Well, free Pascal, 3.2 is coming out.
Yeah.
Sorry, go ahead. I'm sorry.
Well, it's coming out sometime soon.
It's not a bad language, but learning how to hook it into a user interface is a little tricky.
Yeah, free Pascal had some updates on July 20th, and this is in 3.2 should be out later this year.
If it's not coming out today, I guess it's getting bumped for next year or tomorrow, 2020.
I believe that they have a sort of devian view of releases will release it when it's ready.
Although I would like to try free Pascal under, under Freedos since Freedos has, or can be configured with long file names and large file support.
So wait at the free Pascal overview and the supported architectures.
Pretty interesting, Nintendo Game Boy Advance DS Nintendo Wii.
I guess you can compile an application for any architecture off of any architecture.
Like, can you compile a Game Boy Advance executable in Pascal from a Linux machine?
Or do you have to compile it on the architecture you wanted to run under?
Well, I only know that there are cross-compiler stuff, and I'm sure that a lot of the stuff is cross-compiled for some of the architectures like ARM or whatnot.
But I'm not really sure of the details.
Interesting.
I wonder how Fortran is doing.
It's still grinding along.
They're still putting it out there.
Coball is still out there.
Yes, I may antiquated language geek.
So I remember back in college.
I wasn't in computer science, but I know engineering and stuff like that did a lot with classes on Fortran.
I'm not sure if they had Pascal classes too.
Wow, that was a long time ago.
Well, at UMass, Pascal was the teaching language of the time.
Coming in from CPM and DOS, I'd been exposed to basic and power basic was quite powerful.
It reminded me a lot of a deck RT Fortran.
I wonder what they're using to teach now.
Is it still Java?
I guess it is.
Actually, my daughter, fiance, he was in their computer science classes a couple of years ago.
Well, the past couple of years, they were doing Java.
I think some visuals studio, Microsoft C++ maybe?
I don't know.
Yeah, and Python, I think.
Yeah, there was Python too.
What I found interesting back along when I was talking to some people who were being taught computer science by a visual basic.
Please spit over the side if you have to.
They hadn't discovered, they hadn't discovered or covered things like rounding errors.
Oh, man.
That could be a huge problem.
Yeah, well, I went after I had been diagnosed with Ashberger syndrome.
I went to a quickie, teach them office course under Windows 2000.
And I was, you know, going to, I'd like to play around with access because I'd never played with the database before.
But they were very upset about that.
And when I tried to convert a word table back to text and word through up all over the floor, they were very mad at me for abusing word.
So you were taking a, we were programmed, programmatically taking a table created in word and, and converting it back in the text.
I was asking word to convert it back to text.
Oh, oh, yeah.
Okay.
I thought this thing was a text editor that supported plain text that should convert itself both by directly.
Yeah, you learn pretty fast.
I didn't worry.
And of course, when word throws up on your, on your shoes, it's your fault that you broke the word.
It can't be that Microsoft word has some bugs in it.
It's from the, the gurus at Microsoft.
They don't produce buggy software.
Absolutely not.
Now I should wash my mouth out with soap.
What version of word was that?
Do you remember?
Probably word 2000.
Okay.
The most useful stuff that I've done since I left paid work in 1997, February.
I spent a couple of years working at a computer internet cafe at up in Somerville.
Unfortunately, our governing body was not into fundraising.
They were into going to governance meetings and having their little party and whatnot.
But when it came to actually raising money, they didn't sign on for work.
Of course, one of the people that was involved also helped sync the Boston Computer Society.
So I guess we're in good company.
Now, we kept ourselves going by assembling from junk parts windows 2000 PCs.
And that one copy of windows 2000.
Well, amazing things happen if you leave the windows 2000 CD ROM set in the dark.
It multiplied itself across many machines.
Yes, since our our list price for a complete system was about $200.
Yes, we are one of those people that why Microsoft XP has all of those register with us please.
Or we won't let your system install.
I remember back in the day when like windows 95 and then 98 and then 2000 came out.
And there was like lines at the store on release day for to get a copy of it.
And everybody was all excited.
There's big news.
Did that happen for XP?
Also, wait, I don't remember it being maybe it did.
It was XP the last.
XP was one of the windows 2000 with with.
Well, it had higher system requirements, but you actually got a fairly decent system for your money.
Now, it didn't support the does box, but.
But it did it did pretty much everything anybody really wanted.
You know, you could get a decent browser, you know, Firefox or something.
And it had the journaling file system.
So if it crashed, you didn't lose work just like, you know, Linux does.
And if you had.
Had a machine with a little horsepower, you know, I get your hearts or so, it would be nice.
It was so nice that Microsoft really had to kill it with fire.
To get people to move to windows seven.
XP was the.
I would say the operating system that destroyed no bell is I remember.
At the school district, we were in no bell shop.
And XP came out and that just was not playing nice with no val and no val clan would update.
And then Microsoft would update and break compatibility and things.
It was just it was still a moving target every time.
Well, yes.
Also.
XP well.
The first consumer operating systems available from Microsoft that were what we would consider operating systems protected mode multi core and whatnot.
Where Windows 2000 and Windows XP.
Also XP and Windows 2000.
Or why Samba.
Became a thing.
Because people could have their XP machines talking to it.
An older Windows 98 or what have you machine running.
Linux and Samba.
And they would get the same benefits as they got from a work group of windows server.
You didn't get active directory, but for a lot of people, you didn't need active directory.
And somewhere to put the big the big disks and to do backups fairly regularly by somebody who knew what he was doing.
Oh man, I remember the joys of getting all that stuff to work windows 98, windows XP and no val all together.
Oh boy, what's that a joy.
And Windows 2000, which I understand if you did a clean install with fairly decent.
If you did an upgrade install, there was a lot of decaying windows in the background.
Has not always been a problem with their stuff.
I mean, I have to say I haven't used anything significantly from Microsoft since Windows XP.
Well, I went from XP.
My original desktops were Windows 7 and that was fairly decent.
Until Microsoft started a side loading Windows 10.
How do you work Windows 10?
I'm running a Bluetooth on those machines.
Windows 10, otherwise known as ET phone home.
Maybe a decent system, but the fact that you basically give root to Microsoft turned me off big time.
My actual experience with Windows 10 was recently in that my daughter, one of my middle daughters got a laptop.
I am purchase that had Windows 10 on it in SP mode and well, I didn't know what was on it because I didn't buy it.
She got it for Christmas and I didn't buy it and I had to clean hands off of it.
She came down and she said to me, I want to get Google Chrome installed on here.
And I said, why not Firefox right now?
And so she's like, but it won't let me install it because it's in SP.
And I'm like, I have no idea what you're talking about because I don't do Microsoft.
I look at it and I'm like, it's what that's some kind of protected mode, right?
Secure protection mode or whatever it is. I don't know.
So I went on Windows for bigger idiots than usual.
Yeah, so I went online and they're back and it says, here's how you turn SP mode off because she kept saying it wants me to put in the code.
Or the license key, right?
So there's no license key on the system.
They don't have the sticker on the bottom.
And I'm like, okay, so I go looking at the box.
See if there's anything in there or nothing in there, right?
Because when she brought it down to me, it's in there telling her if you want Windows professional,
you got to put in your license key for it and I'm like, wait a minute.
So I went back on site to it's a Lenovo.
I went to the Lenovo website to see and it comes with Windows 10 home.
But I went to where we got it.
She got it from was Amazon and it said it ships with Windows 10 home in SP mode.
So the fact says that you could just go in and turn off SP mode and you're good to go.
But you have to do it through the Microsoft store or something like that.
And the way you get into it is like setting security and then other options.
And I followed their directions.
It didn't match anything that I had to do to go through there, right?
Completely nothing matched even their own documentation.
Like I knew enough to get where I wanted to get to but following their documentation didn't get me there.
And when I got there, it turns out that she had already had it disabled.
I don't know what she did.
So I was just going around in circles and I don't know what her problem was going around in circles.
So if you're in SP mode, you can't install anything unless it comes from the Microsoft store.
And I thought, well, okay, do they have Google Chrome in the Microsoft store?
Nope.
Did they have Firefox in the Microsoft store?
Nope.
But for people who don't know any better, they do have Google Chrome and Firefox manuals in Microsoft store.
And it's like the icon of Firefox or Google.
And it says Google Chrome or Firefox.
And then underneath it, it says manual and a smaller type in font.
And it costs like $3.
And I'm like, who the hell would pay $3 for Firefox or Chrome?
Oh, it's a manual.
Who would pay that for any of those things?
That's even more of a ripoff.
What a terrible experience.
Well, not only that.
I reset a machine and Omen desktop after my brother gave it to me.
And then it came to basically re-register the machine.
And Microsoft wanted, you know, what you had for breakfast last night.
They wanted all sorts of details.
And I said, eh, no, thank you.
Holy moly.
Not only that, Microsoft violates daily the any kind of professional privacy standards in the country.
Because HIPAA says that you're not supposed to allow unauthorized users to access to my records.
Microsoft does not limit their ability to scan your entire machine if they like it.
You confidential files.
Sorry, Charlie.
There are no confidential files from Microsoft.
I asked Prisha Paye, right?
This was a say to Prisha Paye for business.
And yet, when I talk to the medical professionals, they have no idea what they're doing.
Of course, my medical professionals also do a lot of their work over Wi-Fi.
Sure, you want to transmit confidential results over an insecure link.
I had some hope for WPA3, but evidently they've had some serious security holes.
Do they have, like, what was this supposed to be out?
Well, they've been banging on it for a while.
It's been sort of out for a while.
I don't know how long, but I've heard that it's far more Wi-Fi than insecure Wi-Fi.
That's going to be a treat, huh?
Gotta go in there.
You don't have to grade your firmware or get a whole new Wi-Fi access point.
Well, I think that's where a lot of things like Raspberry Pi's are going to go if the chipset allows it.
To be used as an access point or WPA3.
As an access point, you have a ton of processor and you have a reasonable chunk of memory,
and you have a gigabyte Ethernet port.
And you have USB-3 to run whatever dongle you need to run to provide better Wi-Fi than the onboard chip.
Do you got big plans for 2020?
Not really. I'm just trying to, I'll be working to get my back, back in shape,
and I may go back into treatment for my Asperger syndrome and depression,
but this time I'll look a lot more carefully at the professional I entrust my counseling position.
So your Asperger, was that a recent diagnosis or have you been aware of that a long time?
I got diagnosed with something by a buddy who said your body language is just not.
It's completely off the wall.
Then in 2003, when I went in for nerves because of family situation,
I got tested and they uncovered Asperger syndrome.
Then I went to my counselor to what turned out to be my counselor for an evaluation,
and we spent, well the last 15 years or whatever it is, working on my situation.
However, I found my counselor had certain notions which didn't, but I found quite unhealthy.
In fact, it took tremendous willpower to drag my ass into the session because I knew that my counselor was going to misinterpret everything I said,
and trying to get through her perfect treatment plan was turned out to be not worth it in the long run.
Hi, everyone. I made it back.
Net minor, I understand what you're going through.
I told my therapist when I was 12 that I was autistic and he said, oh no, you're none of that.
I wasn't until I was like 55, 56 before I got someone.
Before I showed them the results of my testing that I did myself and they said, oh, yeah, you got a point there, don't you?
In the meantime, they'd been treating me for everything else under the sun, quote, treating, end quote, with some of the most wonderful drugs.
That left me pretty much disabled for quite a long time.
Well, I was being treated by a vegan clintonista.
I tend to get the guys that say, here, take these nice wonderful drugs that, oh, we don't know anything about long-term effects.
They've never been tested for more than six months to two years, but you'll be taking the rest of your life.
I took myself off all those in November of 03, or that's the last one I took was November of 03, and I've been getting better ever since amazingly.
Well, I should be more regular with some of my pills, but when you're primary mental health professional, is that difficult to deal with?
The entire medical psychomedical thing is a little hard to swallow.
Also, she was a PhD, and I didn't graduate college, and her PhD told her that she knew what the real world was, including somebody on disability should rewire their house and insulate it, and generally conferred it to the same kind of house that she had up at Newbury Port.
Yeah, the neurotypicals just don't understand we neurodiverse types, and they think that we can do all the things they can do, even though we can do things that they can't.
Well, also, my folks were from small towns in West Virginia and Maine, and they raised me as a 50s kid.
Now, you want to find stranger in a strange land, have somebody with conservative views in the Boston area.
Isn't that called Mitt Romney?
Okay, I think someone earlier had said that politics is probably not the best topic for today.
Yeah, well, I used to be a Republican, now I'm independent, basically occurs on both your houses, though I am finding the House of Representatives at least mildly amusing.
And, you know, I think things should be papers be delivered to the Senate, which is not a guaranteed feature.
Things will be amusing when the fact checkers start checking the alleged evidence, but if we want to turn off the politics, that's fine with me.
It's just a stranger in a strange land here, but I've been that way so many, I'm slightly dyslexic all sorts of things.
Yeah, like sticks stick to something a little more neutral like Brexit.
Well, I'm sorry, that was tongue in cheek so far that my cheek is sticking out halfway across the room.
Well, I'm looking forward for the first time in a long time to the House elections fall of this coming fall.
I suspect we will find that we've been infected with Brexit fever.
Well, I spend enough time yelling at my Windows friend, I don't know what they're talking about.
And let's leave it there.
I think a smart Democrat would run in 2024, failing out, you know, that's like missing the Titanic, maybe a healthy thing.
So tried any good distros lately?
Actually, early this fall, I had an interesting adventure with my Oman PC with Optimus Graphics.
I went through a whole bunch of them and I found that Linux Lite would actually stay up long enough for me to install the Optimus XORG in videos XORG.
And the system would throw up over APC or whatever over power control events that it was not ready to handle.
Hello, everybody.
Hello, Claudio.
Hey, Claudio.
Hey, what's going on, Dan?
How you doing, man?
Looking good, just chilling right now, waiting for the midnight hour, basically, just like everybody else that's still waiting.
Yeah, I don't know if I want to stay up that late since I have to go to work tomorrow of all things.
Well, that stinks.
Yeah, there was a New Year's party.
I was invited to that was going to be like 1 to 5 p.m.
And I'll be working 9 to 6.
I work for a Riley, don't you know?
We have to have our auto parts.
Well, I thought he was going to say, oh, Riley, no way.
That's, that's what I was going to say.
Is there a virus? Can't name a right?
No, there wasn't.
No, I thought he was talking about the publishing.
Yeah, that's not the publisher, not the publisher.
The auto parts from the Irish Stronghold of Southwest Missouri, although I live outside of Knoxville for those of you who don't know me.
Well, my brother's virtual home is in Missoula, Montana.
His actual home is a Volvo truck.
So you stay in one place or does he move it around?
Well, he stays generally in the lower 48.
Oh, wait, he's a truck driver.
Yeah, Volvo truck.
Yeah, I think he lives in a Volvo.
And I'm like, that's kind of small, but okay.
No, it's a truck.
No, the Volvo truck is a different beast.
Yes.
Yeah, we've got a number of fans of Mintcast and District Hopper's Digest that are truckers and I hear from them.
Well, he's someone could say addicted to Windows games.
So he's still running Windows 10.
And which has been quite helpful to me.
I ran Windows 10 for about 10 hours until I found out that no matter how many security holes I've plugged, there was still some open.
And then I backed it back up to Windows 7.
And then I saw that it left all the security holes open again and I loaded Linux Mint 17 and I have not gone back.
So I was saying that I'm going to, you know, I was on Windows 7.
Perfectly happy Windows 7 user running a lot of open source software through.
If you have somebody who runs Windows, point them at the portable apps.com website.
It will save them from the minions of Microsoft in so many ways.
They can actually get, you know, library office that automatically updates a cast of thousands all free.
When I was running Windows 7, I had KDE for when installed.
Yeah, I was playing with that and stuff.
But what drove me nuts was the assault on Windows 7 by Microsoft.
Everybody's converting to Windows 10 because we won't let them do anything else.
And I bailed into the world of Linux and I've been there ever since.
What's your main distro?
Um, Ubuntu, FCE and some flavor, X and Ubuntu, Linux Lite.
I experimented briefly with the Plasma Neon, but that machine is currently shut down, well, unused.
And because it uses policy kit, I don't know if I'm going to stay with it and learn how to update things with policy kit or jump to something like a BSD running XFCE.
If you're looking to run a BSD that's kind of desktop oriented, I check out Ghost BSD.
Yeah, that's the one that I've been thinking about.
Although, unfortunately, I will have to run the community edition because their primary edition is known or something.
Yeah, I think the default version is Mate and they have a community supported XFCE version.
There's also another flavor that came out called Fury BSD, which kind of takes the place of Project Trident.
And I don't know if you've heard about Project Trident, they used to be what was PC BSD, which then became True OS, which then became True OS went back to its roots.
And then Project Trident was supposed to be the continuation of that.
But then I guess the developer decided to switch over to Linux, which kind of defeats the purpose of the whole project, in my opinion.
So someone decided to take, I believe I haven't looked too much into Fury BSD, but it's basically the continuation of that, as far as I know.
As I understand it, the tools that Trident was using that they wanted to be using kept getting denigrated into the BSD that they were working.
And finally, they found that, well, they could go back to all their favorite tools if they just switched to void Linux.
And that's where they are now.
But Linux is heavily based on BSD, right?
Well, it probably has some similarities.
I just heard the guys on Choose Linux did a review of it recently.
And Elle was saying that it was so effective in teaching her the really base type of Linux that next time her Arch friends are telling her you should try Arch, she's going to have you tried void.
Yeah, I was kind of dismayed at hearing them switch over back to switch over to Linux because it just seems like it's another Linux distro.
But, you know, hey, what did you know they got to do what they got to do, which works for them, I guess.
Well, being is how one of my two podcasts is distro hoppers digest, having another Linux distro is a good thing for me.
Well, there's that too, they're enough.
I mean, we're not going to do a show where we're just looking at all the different Ubuntu's.
I sort of liked plasma.
Nice system.
But when I updated them Ubuntu, I like having the app system available like God intended.
You might want to look at the new version of Feren OS, which just came out a few days ago, where it's mostly plasma, but they've got aptitude and the they've got the Linux Mint program manager and it's a different thing.
It's really nice.
They did a good job of putting all these parts together.
So you've got plasma without discover, although discover has come a long ways and it is better.
It's still in my mind a lot harder to use and takes up a lot more screen space than than any of the other program managers such as myths or Ubuntu's.
Well, I was looking at the basic command line stuff.
Also, there's a utility called you care core, which is very usable under regular and Ubuntu's that does a lot of automatic updates.
It's a console application, but it will also take out a lot of the trash for you.
It will trim your kernel tree that is to say the it will remove kernels that are several generations old stuff like that.
And you just pseudo you care system core and it just goes off and does its thing and then it will tell you whether you need generally tell you when you need to reboot or something.
And having something like that that could work with KDE would be great.
One reason I like ghost BSD was that it still had UFS instead of ZFS.
Do you have the option during the install to use ZFS?
I haven't actually played with ghost BSD yet.
I've been busy basically with the vanilla free BSD and open BSD on myself.
You have the option of using ZFS, but maybe I'm misinformed, but ZFS not only has a completely new tool chain, but you have it tends to compete heavily for memory.
And I only have 16 gigs in this APU system.
Yeah, I had actually set up two servers at each of my sites.
I said what a server at each of my sites actually because they were running old windows server 2003.
And so obviously they needed to be taken offline.
So I decided during the summer break as I work in the K through 12 doing IT.
So I decided to take some servers that were decommissioned already and drop free BSD on each of them.
One was a Dell PowerEdge 2900.
That one I was actually able to set up was ZFS.
And at my other site it's an HP ProLiant DL350 I think G5.
And that one unfortunately I couldn't use ZFS.
I had to actually stick with UFS.
Some issue with the built-in raid controller that I had.
But it's working. Both of them working. Nobody can tell the difference.
They can access their file shows without a problem.
So long as it's working for them, that's working for me.
I mean, I know that GFS has a lot of things for the server side of the world.
But since my machines generally live in the desktop side of the world,
I'd like to, you know, have what, and they're not big memory machines by today's standards.
I really like the idea of having a somewhat traditional file system.
And if Farron sounds like the right thing, it would be nice to stay with an Ubuntu founder or a Debian-type foundation system
and not have to go too far off the reservation.
Yeah, I mean, I have ZFS installed. I actually have it installed.
I have FreeBSD12 installed on an old Dell laptop, which I believe I have running with four gigs.
And it's using ZFS and it seems to be handling it okay.
It's a Dell out of two D620.
I haven't noticed that much. I mean, granted. It's an old machine.
But the performance on it actually is, is not bad.
I still have a lot to learn when it comes to ZFS. ZFS is a, there's so much to it.
I got to get the, what is it? This book is by Michael W. Lucas.
He has a book on ZFS, a ZFS mastery or something like that.
I don't remember the title off the top of my head.
But that I'm going to look into getting that and try to learn a little bit more about it.
Because ZFS, it is not a file system as those coming from regular windows or regular Linux is concerned.
It is largely a storage server of itself.
In other words, your operating system has another operating system under it.
Well, anyhow, I've tried fair in a number of times of the years and the current version seems to get everything right that wants to be getting right.
And if it works for you, that's great.
I've got more of a desktop mentality than it sounds like you do. But that's all right.
Yeah, that's why I would like to have a desktop that runs underneath an app based update system.
And the pretty stuff is left, you know, the desktop is the desktop and system management is more traditional.
Yeah, well, fair and definitely use the app based stuff.
As I said, they basically use the Linux Mint software manager, which is just a pretty up synaptic for the most part.
Well, I've used Minto on some of my machines.
You know, I like standardizing on, generally I'd standardized on XFCE because a lot of my machines were either older single cores,
P4, single core, cellaron.
I even have a Semperon 64 single core.
Well, I have been amazed that plasma has gotten to be a lightweight desktop.
Every test I've seen has it within like 10 megabytes of what XFCE has.
And for all the eye candy that's included in it, that seems rather hard to do, but they've seemed to have managed it.
Yeah, well, I like the look of it, but when I started saying I'm going to have to learn a whole new update language.
I said, wait a minute.
Am I getting banged for my buck here?
Well, I don't think you have to use a new update. I mean, if you're using KDE Neon or Kubuntu or anything, you can still go into your terminal and run all the app commands.
It's just they like running it through discover.
And I have been able to use the GDEB package installer instead of discover when I said it to do that.
Well, again, I loaded Neon and they say, sorry, you've got to have stuff that's package kit friendly.
We do not really support aptitude or apps, whatever, those are emergency tools that are that are depreciated deprecated, but that's close enough.
I don't know. I run Neon and it's basically just Ubuntu. If it works in Ubuntu, it'll work in Neon. You just have to ignore the KDE tools and use your terminal or set things up to run off of apt instead of discover.
Well, I was again, I'm not that I'm a pretty shallow Linux guy. I mean, I have a lot of old knowledge, but I don't have a lot of detailed knowledge about reconfiguring that when the when I go to the web page and they say, sorry, you've got to do it this way instead of the way you've been doing it for, you know, several years.
I tend to believe, but you don't have to its Linux freedom. Yes, but I didn't know how well, first I would have to dig in to reconfigure things that I did on their other systems.
I don't have to reconfigure, which is, which is why I'm moving deferrent. Also, well, pseudo apt update works in any terminal, even console.
As I said, and look around for you care system core, you like it. And it will just sit there and update your system.
It's it's basically apps, plus some programming. It's not a big system and uses, it uses stuff, you know, everything we got in the background, but it's generally fire and forget.
Now Claudio, I've heard Leo mentioned you a few times on mintcast. I'm trying to remember under what auspices.
Oh, interesting was not aware. I can only imagine maybe mastodon.
Yeah, I'm side loaded into mastodons. When when purism said that they were going to offer some things for free, I went for them.
Gotcha. Yeah, I'm on the mastodon.xyz instance as as Claudio, I'm so and yeah, I've recorded a couple episodes on hacker public radio, though I haven't done any within the last maybe year.
I'm hoping my new year's resolution for 2020 is going to be record more episodes for hacker public radio.
Yeah, I don't get on HPR much except when we started doing mintcast. HPR had a room for us to use.
And we used it up until about four months ago when our boy wonder Josh went and set up our own website with its own space and set up our own.
A mumble instance, but then two weeks ago our website was down for some very odd reason actually a pair of very odd reasons.
Used at HPR as mumble again to do a show. We are very grateful.
Other than that, the only instance I've had of using HPR was when Tony Hughes and I started doing distra hoppers digest.
Our first episode was actually re-released as an HPR special episode.
Yeah, I've seen that done a number of times and it's actually kind of neat because it promotes other podcasts out there.
There's a few, I remember there was maybe one or two years ago. There was a, oh, the Alien Brothers podcast and I heard heard about them through HPR because some of their episodes were there and I was listening to them.
I don't know whatever happened to them. I guess they just podfated or what, but I remember hearing them through that and I was curious to listen to them outside of that.
So it's a good kind of like a gateway to other podcasts when they're promoted at least the initial episodes maybe on HPR.
We're also having such a friendly lifeboat comes in handy indeed.
Yes, someone was talking earlier today about their podcast U random, which was through HPR and then isn't and I can't find it on my podcast app.
So I just look for it. That's Taj and Poki. They do that. They had me on, I would say about middle of this year.
They had asked me to come on and I joined them, but I hadn't listened. I keep forgetting about them. I hadn't forgotten.
I hadn't added them to my to my podcaster.
I'm I've got antenna pot open now and they won't find you random for me. So kind of hard to add a podcast. You can't find.
Well, Taj, we're calling you out here. We need the info on you, you random.
Yeah, I know you can put in you can manually put in the the link for a particular podcast.
Yeah, we had to do that with distro hoppers for a while until the pod catcher said, Oh, wait a minute. We've seen that before.
Oh, I was just remembering some of the other podcasts I'd been around.
Oh, there's one that I can't remember, but it's amazing. I'm now on Linux.
Look at it and I'm very happy to have a home.
Sorry guys, I had to drop off for a bit because my son's just got home.
So they were helping out there. Their grandfather was something, I guess, preparations for I got together for years.
So I was at the door. So I probably miss whatever. I'm definitely miss whatever you guys were talking about the last maybe 30 seconds.
They were talking about this horrible podcast a few years ago called Linux basement terrible.
Yeah, I agree. That's horrible.
You talked to Chad anymore.
Now we've lost touch. We've lost touch as he's still on. I still have him connected to me via LinkedIn, but I haven't seen anything from him.
What he's doing well.
That's good. That's good.
I know I've heard mentioned. I don't know if maybe it was on tilts that during a cell or during oil off that he had shown up the one you guys met up with him or something like that.
We went to itself. He and I drove down there. Not this past year. I think it was the year before.
Not very good. Yeah, we had this cell.
Speaking of self, I'm hoping to make it in 2020.
So that's the plan, whether it be just me or with my boys, I'll figure it out somehow, but I'm going to be there.
I tried so hard to get there last year. They even started a fundraiser to get me the money to get there.
And it didn't make it and 2019 has been a much worse financial year for me than the previous years.
So maybe I'll get there this year. It's not that far to Charlotte.
One of the biggest problems is that there's a really good science vision convention in Charlotte.
Either the same weekend or a weekend before or weekend after depending on the year.
And I get if I could manage to afford to go to Charlotte once I can't go to weekends in a row, that's for darn sure.
And I usually don't manage to get to Concarolina's anyhow.
Well, it's the 12th to the 14th in 2020.
I don't know when your kids school ends, but that's like right in the week when my kids always end up getting out of school.
And it's so hard to get there.
So in June, is that yes, June 20 June 12th to the 14th, 2020.
It's a shared in Charlotte airport hotel.
Well, they might actually be off already by that time, which is good.
I just don't know if I have them with me that particular weekend.
If I do, then I'll take them with me. We do road trip.
And if not, then I'll just go on my own. So I'll figure it out.
I may drive again. This time I'll rent a car. I'm not taking my car.
And then just kind of stay with them.
And they're my children now. So, you know, I can go to the talks or whatever.
And, you know, if they don't want to join me, they can go do their thing.
So it's a lot easier now.
Well, it looks like Con Caroline is there's two weeks before this year.
May 29th to 31st.
But anyhow, this year I'm only managing to I go every year to Gafilk,
which is a music convention in Atlanta in early January.
And I haven't missed one in nine years. I'm not going to this year.
But the only reason I'm not missing it this year is because one of my close friends decided
he was just going to pick up my hotel tab himself.
Oh, that's nice.
Yeah, it is.
It's sort of like a family reunion after you've gone to a con nine years in a row.
You know, everybody it's going to be there.
And if they're if you keep going nine years in a row, that means that they're happy to see
or you wouldn't keep going back.
That is true.
I also want to see if I can try to make it out to one of the BSD conventions.
I know that last year or this year, rather, 2019, they had a VBSD con,
which I wish I had been able to go to that.
I know that Brad Alexander, a K Vulkan writer, he goes to a lot of those BSD cons.
So it'd be nice to actually meet him there on one of those.
It looks like Texas Linux Fest is going to be an Austin this year.
So 50, 50 on whether or not I can go.
I just looked up self and they only they they still have last year's dates on the website.
Oh, well, I'm going to have that.
I think there's another site.
It's Southeast Linux Fest 2020.
Okay.
Okay.
Hold on.
I was just on.
I'm going to get back.
Good.
That's just Southeast Linux Fest dot org.
Southeast Linux Fest dot org.
That's where I was.
And it says June 14 to 16.
2019.
There's a there's a tab.
Look at the menu at the top.
So 2020.
Yes.
Oh, they don't have much information.
And it's in tiny type.
Yep.
Yeah.
They probably won't have anything to like march anything more until March, probably.
Yeah.
It's there say 12 to the 14th 2020.
So it's true.
I'm going to have to keep that in mind.
Request for papers closes January 31st.
Well, I would love to make it.
I tried to make it last year.
I may start a fundraiser a little bit earlier this year and see if my listeners are a little more moved last year when my fundraiser failed.
Buy about $500.
I just split what I got and donated half to Linux.
Mitt and the other half to archive dot org.
And everyone seemed to be happy with that.
So.
Hey, Dan.
It's been a while since I've been to a self.
Have there been any more drunk brides flashing everybody?
No, not since that one year, but it's always talked about.
Yeah, that was legendary.
See what happens when you hang out with Pat Valkerding.
So you know what it was pretty weird about it is the fast couple of times have been the self.
There's like only like one or two people that I know that are still that still show up at self.
And it's like all new people there that I've never met before.
So it's an interesting collection.
Well, in 2019, the entire destination Linux crew was there.
So I wanted to get there for that.
Okay.
Who's destination Linux?
Destination Linux.
It's a podcast with.
It's actually a video podcast, but they do an audio version as well with Noah.
Chalaya and Zebedee.
And Ryan, whatever his name is, and Michael Tenel.
And Michael Tenel does this week in Linux.
And Noah's got his Ask Noah show and Zebedee's various gaming video cast that he does.
My mind is blanking on Ryan, but I'm sure I know more.
They've actually put together a whole network, which has picked up Jason evangelos.
Linux for everyone podcast.
And they started another ancillary pod cubicle Nate and someone else.
Called deal and extend where they actually talk about what happened on this.
The destination Linux podcast or another one on the network.
Is Jason evangelos the one that writes for forged on Linux?
Yep.
Yep.
Jason evangelo.
He says.
So any question about this because I.
I haven't had time to keep up with so much stuff.
But Noah used to be on Jupiter.
And then he took a show.
Well, when when they were selling, well, he started his show.
And he sort of kept it separate from Jupiter.
And when Jupiter got bought by Linux Academy, Noah was not part of the offer.
And he took his show elsewhere and then got involved in the destination Linux podcast.
And they now have destination destination Linux network.
That's what I was wondering.
Yeah, I do not know any of the internal stuff on why Linux Academy wanted some staff and not others.
Or some shows and not others.
They definitely before the sale they closed down unfilter and Linux action show.
And then they started up new ones and they're still starting up new ones.
And as long as Chris is happy, you know, not all the matters.
Well, it is to him.
We still doing what he loves.
Good.
Probably good on him.
Yeah.
Good.
Good on him.
And for that matter, Joe.
My brain is not working right now.
resigntern is Linux Academy employee now.
And does all of the audio editing for almost all their shows.
Exactly.
Good on him.
When's the main cast going to join destination linux.
We're not interested.
Now they didn't ask.
asked people that were interested to apply.
And I will say,
District Hoppers Digest did ask
and we have not yet even been responded to.
We do know that Zebedee Boss knows
that we had applied
because he has been in personal contact with Tony Hughes.
But he says, well, you know,
some things take a while.
And I kind of think it takes a lot less time
than it takes to just say,
we got your application
and we'll think about it.
We don't even have that at this point.
But I'm more sensitive to these things
than Tony Hughes is.
He says, just hang on to your hat.
We might get there yet,
but then again,
District Hoppers Digest were almost up
to 500 downloads per episode.
We're not a big wheeler and dealer in this neck of the woods.
Are you having fun doing it?
Oh, yeah.
I'm having fun with my trainers.
Yeah, it was my idea and Tony Hughes said,
yeah, and that's a good thing
because I know diddly about audio editing
and Tony does all of that for us.
And having only two streams
makes it fairly easy for him to do that.
But yeah, it's been a lot of fun.
I love just playing around with what comes out.
If I can get it to run on my machine,
I'll talk about it.
I made episodes you up to.
We're going to be recording episode nine.
In January 8th,
we only do one a month,
so we give whatever distros we're looking at,
enough time to really get into them
and find out what's good and bad about them.
And in some cases, ditch them and have time
to put something else in.
This is terrible.
And I should just listen to episode seven,
but I'm just curious right now
because I was digging the other day.
I was like, man,
I remember when Mandrake Linux
was like the biggest thing.
And I got Mandrake Linux.
Yeah, I started with Mandrake.
That was the first one I managed to get running on
one of my computers.
Yeah, I was a big Mandrake.
I was running Red Hat.
I don't remember which version.
The six or seven back in the day.
And then I switched over to Mandrake.
Well, we have done a review on Open Mandrake 4,
which is a community based version of what was left.
Well, that's episode seven.
I'm curious like one of the things I remember
from Mandrake, like one of the big claims of fame
was Drake Conve.
And they had like, it was almost similar to like what
Sousa had with Yast, but it was like,
is that still in?
Do they still have to like,
they open Mandrake has just moved
to DNF Dragoora.
Okay.
And now the Open Mandrake is sort of based
on the Russian professional version called Rosa.
If you, the developers who were left
from the Mandrake and Mandrake projects are running
not Manjaro, it sounds like Manjaro and isn't.
My brain is not working again.
I almost had it there.
Look at my magic boxy if I still have a copy.
No, I don't.
That didn't help.
Turn it.
And then there's also PC Linux OS,
which broke off from the Mandrake,
Mandrake Mandrake project before they went under.
So there are currently four versions
of Mandrake still floating around.
Were you thinking of Magia?
Magia, that's the one.
Doesn't that sound like Manjaro to you?
Yeah, kind of.
Yeah, I was going through my mind is the M's
and just going through the distros.
I was like, oh, Magia.
Well, most of the front developers are still working
on Magia.
Got it.
And the Russian developers came up with Rosa
and then open Mandrava was the community getting together
and using the Rosa code base to work from.
Well, it's nice to see that at least a spirit
of what was Mandrake is still alive.
Man, I remember when we, they used to call it,
was it Linux Mandrake,
and then they switched to Mandrake Linux.
And yeah, that's how far back I went with that one.
Yeah, I will say that in my experience,
I liked open Mandrava 3 better than I liked 4.
4 had a lot of improvements in visual stuff
but some of the things seemed to go backwards
in how well it worked for my machines that I had at the time.
Got it.
But the problem with 3, well, you got 3.03
is the latest version of 3 and you download it,
you install it, and then you've got 3,400 updates to do.
And when you're running something like Discover,
that's not a fun thing.
That's what happens when you don't update
the day or two on Arch, right?
Yeah, I wouldn't know.
I don't run Arch.
Not a purist.
Yeah, I play with Arch, but that was many.
That was maybe what, eight, 10 years ago.
And then I kind of switched off from it.
Well, the other group of people that are put down
as much as Arch users are, are Gen2 users.
And believe it or not, there are a couple of very easy
to use Gen2-based distros out there.
One is the Italian Sebayon.
And the other is Russian Calculate Linux.
Yeah, I was just as you mentioned Sebayon,
I was gonna bring that one up.
And I was curious if they were still active.
They just came up with a new version, version 20.
Just yesterday or day before.
I actually put it on one of my machines.
I almost got it right.
The Installer was pretty easy to use and understand
unlike a lot of very in-depth installers, like OpenSusie.
But I still got something wrong.
So I went back and I tried it again.
And I got something so wrong it messed up my setup.
And I literally had to call System76 and say,
hey, how do I reset the BIOS on this?
So I don't think I'm gonna try a third time on Calculate,
but it looked really good.
It ran really well.
I just somehow didn't get my username
included in those who were approved to use Sudo.
And so that's why I tried it again.
So my question is, is it as bad or as painful as partitioning
when you're installing Fedora?
I would say no, but I have never successfully installed Fedora.
I did actually because I do run Fedora.
And yeah, the partitioner, I'm used to their partitioner now.
But when it first came out, oh my goodness,
it took a bit to wrap my head around it.
I've never gotten through an installation of Fedora.
I've tried it a few times.
Did I have problems with open Susie?
There's just some wording or some way that they do it
that does not make sense to me and I cannot continue.
I didn't have that problem with Calculate Linux.
I got through the installer two whole times
before I messed up my setup, my BIOS.
Well, I'm also with Patrick Vogueer,
to officially release Slackware 15.
So I can put it on something,
even though I run Slackware current on a machine at work.
You have an inside tab on that there
because they haven't released something since like what, 2016?
Yeah.
The person to ask might be Clot 2,
but I mean, he's more on the Slackware than I am nowadays.
But yeah, if current is basically 15,
but what they always say with regards to Slackware
is that it will be released when it's ready.
Right, but look at the other ones.
These are like three years apart too.
So I've had to actually switch,
could I use SBO PKG?
I've had to actually stop using that
because it wouldn't update certain Slack builds
and I switched over to another set of tools called SBO Tools,
which is very similar to how,
I want to say how package I'm free BSD works.
So I've used that and actually has a tree for the,
for current and it seems to update pretty well.
I've been happy using that one
and it actually resolves any dependencies.
No more need for Q files or anything like that.
It actually checks for you what you need
and it builds that before anything else.
And what was that?
SBO Tools.
Oh, SBO Tools.
You said SBO Package?
That's what I used to use.
But then it just stopped working with Slackware Current.
Okay, so they just use an SBO Tools now?
No, I'm using it.
I'm using it.
What's the difference between SBO Package and SBO Tools?
Well, I mean, they both build Slack builds,
but just in a different way.
SBO PKG used Q files and it actually had like an end curses
interface if you wanted to use that.
If you rent it without any switch commands
or anything like that, just like this SBO PKG itself,
it would launch the end curses interface.
SBO Tools is more like PKG on FreeBSD
where you just run it and it has a bunch of other commands.
There's no end curses interface or anything,
but it's pretty easy to use.
Well, easy for Slackware user.
That's what I'm gonna say.
So what I found a little confusing about is like,
they're both called SBO, the prefix of SBO.
And I think they were related in some SBO Package
and SBO Tools, but they're not, are they?
No, no, they're not.
I think the person who created SBO Tools
is usually on the free node Slackware RC channel.
Or at least was, I don't know if they're there anymore.
I've been itching to run Slackware for a long time again.
I'm gonna try and get the link for SBO Tools
and put it in the chat.
Is it, it's not the GitHub page, right?
Yeah, pink, highfimist.github.io, that's the one.
Yeah, we go.
Yeah, and I think that user's still on the,
on the IRC channel for Slackware on FreeNode.
What do you say, you can use Slack builds
to build SBO Tools.
All right.
Yeah, there it is.
It says it's like ports on FreeBSD.
Let me inchway my way back to Sabyon,
which I kind of wanted to talk about a little bit more.
Okay.
Go for it.
I really think that you could put a new user on Sabyon.
The install is easy.
The main thing you have to do is run your search
for mirrors before you do your updates.
It will literally save you two hours of download time.
It takes longer to install than anything else,
but it's not building packages.
It's just finding them and it's a whole lot of fun.
There's all kinds of cute little things in it
that I've not seen in any other distro.
And I still have it installed on my little Galago Pro here.
I don't know if any of you remember Sound Chaser?
I haven't seen him in a while,
but he was from what I remember,
he was a fan of Sabyon and he used to run that.
But we're talking years ago, I don't know.
I don't know now, he's kind of dropped off as well
from the interwebs.
You know, doing distrohoppers digest nine times out of 10,
we finished the review saying,
well, it was fun and it worked really well,
but I don't think I'm keeping it around anymore.
And Sabyon was when I just couldn't let go of after I was done
playing with it, so I'm still playing with it.
Yeah, I used to distrohop so much between Ubuntu
and all the other distros that eventually I settled on,
I was running Ubuntu for a while,
but it was either Ubuntu or Slackware.
And then I got into Fedora,
which I wasn't a fan of actually up until version 13.
And that one kind of convinced me,
I was like, okay, this is a little better
because the previous version seemed very slow to me.
And then it just kept getting better from then on.
And so I've been running Fedora for years now
and it's kind of moved to my primary Linux distribution
of choice.
Of course, I have to add the RPM fusion repose,
otherwise, I mean, I use it also for gaming.
I have Steam on it, I have Minecraft on it
when I play with my kids, a bunch of other stuff.
I use it for working on music when I have time.
So that's pretty much, it has everything.
I think for me, it's got a good balance
of the latest and greatest instability.
I used to run Debian, I used to run Ubuntu.
I used to switch Debian over to the SID repo
and yeah, I mean, there were moments where things broke
and it's what it is, it's unstable.
But even then, I mean, it's rather stable for what it is,
but I think Fedora gave me a good balance
of not so much the cutting edge, but near the there.
Which is fine for me.
Well, my closest friend before he passed
used to run Fedora all the time and I just couldn't see it.
And then I started listening to the Jupyter shows
and it seemed like every six months
they were installing Fedora on something
and then trashing it later or if they tried to do
the upgrades and the upgrades don't work
and it just didn't sound that good of a system to me
from the way it comes across on the air.
Yeah, I remember then talking about that kind of
about Fedora in that way.
I never really listened to that much,
but I remember hearing stuff about that
and I was like, well, I don't know what they're going through.
It seems to be working fine for me.
The trick for me was to avoid using the graphical updater
and just stick to the command line.
So when they switched to DNF, I just started,
I just used the, I always used YAM on the command line
and I just switched over to DNF.
On Debian based distros, I actually used install Synaptic,
which I found was really nice for installing packages.
And it hasn't been made change for two years now.
That's the thing I'm afraid of.
Yeah, it's a shame because I think it was good
for the power user.
Yeah, it kind of gave you a nice balance.
It was very intuitive, I found it.
And in comparison to the other tools
that were supposed to be user for end users,
but they tended to be very crashy.
Yeah, well, I've been using Linux on and off since 02
and I am still the kind of user that would be the guy
that just came over from Windows
and doesn't know what he's doing.
But over the past year plus of doing MintCast,
I have gotten finally somewhat comfortable
with some aspects of the command line.
And so graphical tools are what I would be using
and if they mess up, then I'd be lost, you know?
Yeah, no, I understand you completely.
That's where I was for a while.
And then actually I was, I was like that for a good while
until I tried Slackware.
And from Slackware really what they say
is you wanna learn Linux use Slackware.
For me, that's exactly what it was.
And actually that helped me jump over to the BSD side
and since the scripts that it uses are BSD style,
it was, the transition one wasn't as steep
as far as the learning curve.
But there is still a learning curve
when you go to a BSD and compare it
when coming from Linux.
There's a learning curve getting through
the installer on a BSD.
I haven't done it yet.
I have to say, I have to say,
I run open BSD, it's my favorite of the BSDs.
And the installer is very, it's very Spartan,
but it's very simple.
The first time I installed it,
I think the only thing I had trouble with was the partitioner
because I think I've used their own FDISC.
But once you get a little familiar with that,
it's not too bad.
Everything else as far as the installation is concerned
is super easy.
It actually surprised me how easily I got an install.
My main machine, I've got seven distros on it.
I've got another one on my travel machine
and another one on my wife's machine
where you just play around with things
until they work.
And every now and again, I swap out one of the ones
that's on my main machine, get tired of it
or find something else I want to try
and where am I going to put it?
And I keep all of my data on the external drive.
So I don't have, I've got the same data
available no matter what I'm running.
Make sure I've got all the main apps that I use.
I'm one of the people that has been screamed at
for years and years because you use a proprietary office
package.
I'm sorry, open office slash Liebery office
is not good enough for my editorial needs.
Just messes up for now.
Yeah, I understand that completely.
I've really, my evolution as a free software
as a free software open source software user.
I've become more pragmatic when it comes to certain things.
So I get when people need to run Microsoft Office.
I like that there's choice now.
I like that they finally support
the open document format properly.
So in the direction that Microsoft has taken,
especially in recent years, it has been good.
But yes, cautious optimism on my part.
I still, I'm still kind of like,
but as far as, you know, if you got a user tool
that works for you, that's where I stand right now.
And, you know, if it's free and open source, great.
But if it has to be proprietary because there is no
viable solution, then so be it.
I mean, it's all about choice.
I've been using soft maker since 2010
and I was still on Windows.
Of course, for Windows users,
you can buy it as a shampoo office,
which has frequent, deep discounts,
whereas soft maker does not believe in discounts.
But the fact that there was a Linux version
when I started really getting serious about Linux in 2012
made it that much more something I wanted to use.
And I've never had a problem converting documents
to and from Microsoft either spreadsheets
or book documents.
I spent two years as senior editor
of a small publishing company.
And you have no idea how many documents
I had to rescue from people that were trying
to use open office.
Just, most cases, we had to completely wipe it back
down to a text file and reformat the whole book.
I believe that so long as you don't have to deal
with any of the Microsoft office suite stuff,
using open labor office,
actually is not a bad option.
I actually knew someone personally
that she didn't have Microsoft office
and she needed to do certain lesson plans.
And I said, well, she didn't have the money
to pay for Microsoft office.
So I said, well, let's give this labor office a try.
And I kind of helped her out and figured out
how to use it.
And she actually did pretty well with it.
She was doing lesson plans
and a whole bunch of other stuff on it.
And she was pretty, she used it, she was happy with it.
Of course, when she started having
to use Microsoft office at work,
the only good thing was that the stuff that she did
since it, by default, saved as open document text,
office would open it because they were using
a more current version of office.
So it supported everything open the way it was supposed to.
Maybe there was some little formatting thing,
but nothing that big of a deal
that they couldn't just make a change too,
but it was in verification.
Well, I've been using open office since,
well, my first copy was Star Office 5.
Oh, I remember Star Office.
That was bad.
I remember working with that
and trying to convince people.
And I was like, yeah, I was having a hard time
convincing myself with Star Office,
but it was the only option on Linux at the time.
Yeah, well, I am all for open source.
I push open source, but in this case,
I worked, like I said, for two years as senior editor
of a small publishing company,
and we were tearing our hair out over some of the format
problems that we had converting back and forth
from Microsoft to the library office,
or I guess it was still open office then.
Open office.org, excuse me.
And it was horrible, and we had to tell people
do not use open office.
And if it ever, and I reported three bugs to them,
and they came back to me and said,
we are not interested in fixing these bugs.
Oh, that's pretty odd.
Yeah, yeah, no, that'll turn anybody off.
I just, that I understand.
But, well, if the rumor mills are true,
what they say, now that Microsoft's released
Teams for Linux, maybe we'll see an office
for Linux finally in 2020.
But see, why do we need office for Linux?
We already have soft maker, and it's every bit is good.
And it's a lot cheaper.
Well, there you go.
Well, I mean, I guess if, I don't know,
there's that instance where maybe they
meet a version of Microsoft office for Linux,
and if it's available, they already have a contract
with Microsoft, they can probably throw that in as well.
That's the only thing I can think of.
Okay, well, as I said,
it's the only reason, but it's a possibility.
Yeah.
Anyway, I'm gonna drop off.
I gotta start getting ready myself.
I'm actually the one that's gonna be grilling
the New Year's Eve Barbecue tonight.
So, I gotta get myself ready and get the food ready.
So, all of you, I hope if you aren't already
in the New Year, have a very safe
and happy and prosperous New Year.
And I'll see you next year.
Nice talking to your cloudal.
It's still 1925 here in Eastern Tennessee.
Believe you.
Ha, ha, ha.
Have a good one, everybody.
Bye.
Good to hear from you.
And there went Claudio.
Don't say it like that with such a finality.
It says Claudio M left channel and disconnected.
That sounds pretty final to me.
Oh, no, no, there's always reconnection.
I guarantee you he will not be back this year.
I never bet against Claudio.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
Well, when he has said he's heading for the grill
to make the food for whoever's celebrating with him,
I don't think he's gonna come back to a microphone
when he's busy with the grill.
Even about four and a half hours,
I think we'll hear from him again.
Oh, okay.
He usually likes to pop in right at his time change.
Don't believe we met.
I'm Poki.
Hi, Poki.
I'm Moss.
I'm one of the co-hosts of MintCast
and founder and co-hosts of Distro Hoppers Digest.
Very cool, very cool.
And I'm not so special myself.
Ha, ha, ha.
Oh, I'm definitely special.
But maybe not the best way.
Significant with the word I was meant to say.
Significant.
Significant myself.
I have at least one significant digit.
I think it's called a pinky.
Yeah, I'm one of the co-hosts of the Uranum podcast.
And I just learned about that
and I just finished adding it to my pod catcher
about an hour ago.
Oh, well, and I apologize in advance
for any listening you might do.
Ha, ha, ha, ha.
So if you and Taj and Lyle.
And Lyle.
It's, frankly, it's more of those two guys than me.
I'm more of the comic relief.
Those two guys are the technical experts.
Yeah, that's what I've been considering myself on MintCast.
I'm sort of the Geiflegman of the troupe.
Yeah.
There's a difference I don't get.
Ah, a Galaxy Quest.
Yeah, I know Galaxy Quest, which one was Geiflegman?
Rock.
Oh, all right.
Ha, ha, ha.
But you're not the crew member that gets killed.
Maybe you're the plucky comic relief.
You think I'm plucky?
Ha, ha, ha.
God, I've got it.
What are that Sam Rockwell's role?
I don't know.
I'm not so good with names when it comes to movies.
Me, either.
Can't help you much with that.
I just, I spent too many years without a television or movie
watching or any of that.
Kind of starting to get back into it a little now.
With like Amazon Prime videos and that kind of thing.
But you know, I am not the, uh, the aficionado that I used
to be as far as movies and television goes.
Yeah.
Well, we were some of those pirates you hear about.
I basically, uh, pay my internet provider
for the cheapest possible TV that gives me fast internet.
I don't even plug in their TV box.
I open up Cody and I run one of the plugins and VPN
over to Amsterdam and what where it's legal.
And watch whatever I want to watch.
Assuming I can find a stream.
Oh, yeah.
See, for me, it's so much not having the ability to do this.
Yeah.
Well, there are a number of shows that we would like to watch.
But we are so bloody poor that we can't afford to pay the hundreds
of dollars it would take to have the TV to watch them.
Yeah, I just assume not watch them find something else to do.
It's often the wintertime though, usually in the summer.
I'm, yeah, found on a motorcycle or my convertible tool
and around, but a little trickier.
I have neither a motorcycle nor a convertible.
I have a Chevy Cobalt and a Mazda 2.
The Mazda 2 is really fun to drive.
I got to tell you that.
I don't doubt it.
Uh, I've heard really good things about Mazda lately.
They're, they're taking kind of a different track technically, um,
to give their cars a different feel than the mainstream.
So I don't doubt that at all.
Well, I got a 2014 that had a bit high mileage on it.
But I only had to pay, I think, $5,000 for it.
For something that knew that's not bad.
And she zooms really nicely.
Got a five-speed stick on it.
Also known, also known as millennial theft protection.
Yeah, for sure.
I got a Mazda myself, my convertibles, uh, uh, uh, Miata, uh,
or MX-5 for any international listeners.
Mm-hmm, not an RX.
No, no, that's, uh, no, that's, those are big money.
Yeah, I know.
I got to say though, the RX-7 is quite possibly my favorite car
of all time, especially the looks of it.
The maintenance maybe not so much, but, you know,
it could be worth it.
I'd go through it if I could get one.
Well, I think it's amazing what the Japanese engineers did
with that Vonkel engine anyhow, because the German engineers
only could get, like, 12,000 miles out of the set of seals.
Yeah, it wasn't just that me there.
I, uh, there was a Suzuki motorcycle that had the, uh, the Wanko
in it.
Mm-hmm.
Whereas the RX-7, you could expect 50,000 miles,
and you might get lucky up to 70.
Um, I don't know.
I've seen plenty of them with more miles than that.
They, they seem to get around 125.
That seems to have got the limit of Apex seals with, uh,
with a street porting tune on it that you go for, uh,
what they call a bridge port, which is more of a racing
application, and that's going to drop right down.
Well, I need to go AFK for a couple of minutes.
I won't be long.
And, um, yeah.
I'll be back.
That was nice meeting you, Moss.
Nice meeting you, Pokey.
Uh, I heard the name Galaxy Quest.
That's, that's one of my favorite movies.
I wouldn't be surprised if it's one of all of our favorite movies.
It's, I mean, it's right up there with Revenge of the Nerds for me.
Yeah, and I recently saw some of the, um,
well, movie review, um, said that the Revenge of the Nerds stuff,
that was too sexual or sexist or what have you would never fly these days.
It's probably true.
It probably would not fly these days.
As a confirmed pedestrian, I'd love getting these calls.
Your extended warranties expiring.
And I call them up and I say, oh, my extended warranty is expiring.
Would you?
Thank you very much.
And they asked me, what's the making model of your vehicle?
And I said, excuse me, let me know.
I don't have one.
No, I haven't even got time for them, but I would tell them new balance.
Yeah, well, the, no, I just, you know, and of course,
they say that they're going to take you off the call list and they never do.
I always just transfer them to Elizabeth Warren because she's the one to,
who promised to put an end to such calls.
You mean Pocahontas?
Yeah, that's the one.
I wasn't going to call her a political nickname.
I'm not coming in here to divide the group any in my part.
Don't worry.
She's promising to tear down every house that everybody lives in because they're not
energy efficient.
Mine could use it, actually.
Well, yes, but with housing shortage, when you can't build enough houses,
something gets a little wrong with this picture.
Something's always a little wrong with the picture when there are politicians involved, my friend.
Well, I am somewhat looking forward to the house elections next year.
All right, I'll bite.
Go ahead.
Well, if you want to see what, if you want an example of what's probably going to happen,
just remember the British elections of this fall.
Yeah, we'll see.
I don't know.
I'm not making any predictions myself.
I know what my own views are.
And I think I've been fairly outspoken on those throughout the years.
But, you know, like I said, I'm not one to come into the HBR chat room and be divisive.
I think division is the weapon of the politicians and they are the enemy, not the rest of us,
the enemy to one another.
I'll agree.
Hardly, just that whenever I see the democratic maneuvers, totally impartial, of course,
it reminds me of an old adage never interfere with an enemy going, making a major mistake.
I'm not sure I get the reference, but yeah, as far as the Democrats go,
I don't think the Republicans are any better or anywhere.
I mean, I think, I think Ron Paul said it best when they asked him what he thought of a third party.
And he said, ah, I'd like to see two first.
Well, I think that's the one thing the Trump has brought is he has jumped the fence so far.
The politicians on both sides are having problems with their cookies.
So your name in here is net minor.
What exactly do you mind the net for sir?
Well, my grandfather was a coal miner.
And I mind the net for military history, technology, computers, modern and ancient.
I'd actually like to run a nice small 370 or the 380 when they get the project up,
which is a completely open source, reimagining of the 370 XX or 30 whatever architect.
I'm not familiar, are you talking about older computers mid 1900s or so?
Yeah, well, 370 was a 70s era machine.
There are IBM machines when IBM was was big.
Do you watch YouTube much?
Yeah, probably more than I should, but I watch a lot of that.
There's actually a IBM computer emulator that is amazing.
It even runs 3090 Linux.
That is to say it will run big disks, big Linux, everything on top of Linux or Windows.
Sounds cool. Have you seen the history guy yet? He's fairly new on YouTube.
Oh, yeah, I see a lot of his stuff.
I cover some of the gaming.
Another channel is outdoors with the Morgan's and some of the others.
I follow some farming channels, again, trying to connect with my roots and the places where I had sanity growing up.
You mean to say you have your roots in roots?
Actually, I remember looking forward to smelling the smells of home including commonore.
Oh, but that's ranching. I thought you said farming.
Dairy farming.
Aha.
Okay.
My joke is not an even decent joke.
Actually, I had the good fortune of being exposed to both milk can farming,
with an individual milking machine and a single container, etc.
And in both dairy farming, which is a primitive ancestor to the current technology when milk was picked up by things to look like,
like tiny oil trucks and was handled in a rather modern way.
This was back in the 60s.
If it makes you feel any better, Moss, I got roots in roots right now.
You're changing into Alex Haley, I take it.
No, no, my daughter sent me a Shataki mushroom growing kit for Christmas.
Ah.
They, of course, have the roots in roots.
Oh, is that actually roots? That's the different thing.
It's silly. I'm, it's close enough.
Yeah, one of the guys I follow is done in New Jersey.
You know, he calls himself one little nefarmer.
He, he bails a lot of big bails, 1500 pound bails for the Pennsylvania mushroom goers.
They use it as a substrate for their growing mushrooms under, you know, in their caverns or whatever.
Yeah, there's a couple of places here in Knoxville area that deal with mushroom mulch and I'd say seedlings, but that's not the right word.
Oh, yeah, there it mushrooms are a big business here.
What, what I find interesting not only is the bails, not the man portable ones that I remember, but because the mushroom stuff is grown on moist hay and rotting hay.
The treatment of hay and preserving its quality is completely different.
Well, sadly I grew up a city boy and my parents both had their farming childhoods, but they did not allow me to have one.
And so I hear about all this stuff and don't know what I'm talking about.
Well, what I ran into was my father shortly after World War II turned 80 or 90 acres of weeds into a humming comparatively modern dairy operation.
Now, it's very hard to farm on point eight acres in a metropolitan area, so it would be very hard for me to make it the kind of accomplishments that he made on a farm.
And therefore, also because of some coordination issues and whatnot, I wasn't the kind of son that he would have raised in West Virginia.
I very definitely did not want to be growing up in Los Angeles, but I had no say in the matter.
Well, likewise, but also it was a little difficult since my father didn't notice the difference between Boston and rural West Virginia or Maine.
Yeah, I wanted out of LA so bad that I had my parents send me to college in Sterling, Kansas.
Most people didn't even know there was a Sterling, Kansas, let alone the college there.
Well, I went through college at home, but I also ran into a problem with the education system.
A student until I got to junior high, and then I became an A student in anything that I actually applied myself to moderately.
I didn't get smarter, however, I adapted to the just in time education system.
They would tell you what was going to be on an exam, you could preload your head, you would take the exam, offload the information that they requested,
move on to the next subject or exam.
My brain refused to work like that, and as such, I never actually found a field I could be in, and as such, I never finished college, but I at least got sent away from Los Angeles for a few years and stayed away.
Well, if I'd gone to to community college, I probably could have gotten a degree, but when I hit real college, my lack of community of living knowledge and study habits, and the fact that the college started me over
behind where I had been when I left high school.
I took an extra postgraduate year, so of course, is that I wouldn't dare take while they counted.
I crashed and burned after a couple of years.
Of course, my dad was an SD drunk, and I was going into school early in the morning and leaving as late as possible to get public transportation to my school.
Well, I think I'm going to take off, I'm sure my wife wants to see something on the tube, and I might myself, I don't think I've even watched my usual CBC news broadcast.
So, I'm back on later most.
I kind of doubt, I think I'm going to be busy, and I have to get up early in the morning to talk with Tony.
We've got a meeting for distra hoppers, and then I have to go to work at nine.
See you.
Talk to you soon.
Thanks for everything.
Sure, talk to you soon, Netminer.
I don't know if I'll talk to you soon.
I know I'll talk to Joe soon, because he's unmit cast with me.
All right, see you guys. Happy new year.
Pretty good, man.
It's dinner with some friends.
Got my belly full of awesome Korean food, and I'm ready to just like chat. Let's do this.
Are you reading that book we discussed last time?
I have not started yet.
I've talked a lot, but I haven't talked to you.
Drama abounds right now.
Gogey.
Gogey.
Gogey.
Hi, Joe.
Hey, Kim.
I'm sorry.
What's that?
We were talking about Korean food, and I'm wondering what you had.
It's on bulgogi, and my wife had some beefy abat, which is my favorite thing to say.
Love bulgogi.
It is quite amazing.
There's a couple of good bulgogi places in the Dallas area.
I've yet to find anything in the El Paso area.
Yeah, we've got this one that opened a couple of years ago in town.
It's like, it's a Korean place that does.
It also has like a ramen counter, or you get like ramen if you want it.
But the funny thing is, is the people there are Chinese.
They speak Mandarin.
So it's kind of fun for me.
Korean is like right there in the middle between Japan and China.
So I guess it's not all that surprising.
I don't care.
Everything they make is delicious.
As long as the food's good.
It is.
It's very good.
So, Poki, that picture you sent on signal, is that your mushroom log?
Yes.
It was my mushroom log.
Okay.
I was hoping so.
Either that or something went horribly wrong.
That's the way it's supposed to look as far as I can tell.
It doesn't look like that anymore though.
I harvested all of them off it today.
I'm going to try to start again in two days and see if I can get a second batch out of there.
Mushrooms are one of the things that like I want to learn more about.
And I want to learn how to grow them because they're just like fascinating.
I just hate mushrooms.
So it's like, I would be giving them away to everybody.
But I don't really know that many people like them.
So that's exactly what I did with these.
I do not like shiitake mushrooms at all.
I really like mushrooms.
I like most mushrooms I've ever tried.
I really do not like shiitake mushrooms.
And I don't really care for Fortabella.
I'll eat them, but I don't really care for my favorite, just the white button mushrooms.
Those are my favorite caught common ones.
I've had others that are really terrific, but that's about it.
I hear all these stories of people who are like, oh, you just haven't tried the right mushroom.
Oh, you haven't, they haven't been prepared correctly.
And nobody is willing to like actually do the magic thing that they need to do and let me try it.
So I guess I just live in ignorance.
I don't know what to tell you because I do them wrong all the time.
And I still love them.
So I guess I just like mushroom.
Fair enough.
I wish I did.
They're really good for you.
What I've run across occasionally, usually not early enough to harvest are the puffball mushrooms.
I've never harvested wild mushrooms.
That's a little too scary for me.
I've got a friend who's really into it.
And he's a scientist during the day.
So like he, I think he actually knows what he's talking about, like the different species and stuff.
But I've never gone with him when he does it.
Like he'll go out on like three day trips just to go trump to the forest and find different other mushrooms.
I'd love to learn if it was, you know, somebody near me that did that.
I'd love to go with him because I see mushrooms out in the forest all the time.
And like I don't even want to touch him because I know some of them are so deadly or at least are so unhealthy.
Like I don't even go near him.
It's like either it's going to taste terrible or I'm going to be tripping balls or I'm going to die.
None of these sound fun.
So I'm just going to take a bath or it could be really, really delicious if you saute with butter.
There's not a whole lot in the world that doesn't taste delicious when you saute it with butter mushrooms is kind of the exception of that rule.
I don't know, there's some crazy ones out there.
My favorite, if you ever see him, you might want to try him just because they're unique.
But lobster mushrooms are just out of this world.
See that's one of the ones that I keep hearing about that everybody's like, oh yeah, you just need to try that.
I can't find them like nobody has them.
No, no, they're really hard to find you.
I can only get them at like a special grocery store up here.
I need a special grocery store.
Oh, no, you don't because you can't afford anything in there.
You just buy a little bit of lobster mushroom every now and again.
Lobster mushroom and then there was I think the other one was like lion something or it or something like that.
And somebody said that that one's really good too.
Lions main.
I think that's it.
Yeah, that's it.
And don't remember it.
It didn't.
Maybe I didn't have it.
I did it and stick out of my mind that the taste didn't anyone.
Anyway, the reason I asked about that book is if you do read it, you got to let me know because it the embarrassing if you read it.
And I don't.
Which book?
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
It's just some family stuff that doesn't really involve me other than being geographically close to it.
Before I have to handle all of it, so or you know, the few of us that are geographically close,
I have to handle all of it.
It's just time consuming more than anything else.
Did you have a chance to watch that latest Star Wars movie?
I did.
Okay.
Just checking.
We've got a schedule.
I show at some point.
I have all.
All the thoughts about it.
right away, right after seeing it, but they're fading quickly.
My daughter wants to see it.
So I'm probably going to go see it again here in the next couple of days.
So I don't know if you've seen any of my messages lately to you two guys,
but did you see that my mother board?
Yeah, I saw, well, I, I, I saw them stacking up and I was just like,
couldn't deal with it.
And then I looked at it yesterday and I was like,
this is, this is goes from like the highest of allation down to just like tragedy at the end.
Ah, no, it's not super true.
No, no, actually, those are two different computers.
Oh, okay, I didn't get that.
I thought it was the same one.
No, no, I, I, you know, as we've talked about, I've got this,
this love affair now with these old HP elite books, just because the,
they're so rugged, they're so physically sturdy and they're modern enough processors
that they really seem fast to me.
So the 15 inch is the second gen.
That's the one that I replaced the, the processor on a swap that out for the,
for the, the i7 processor, but there's like,
there's almost zero advantage to doing so the i5 and there was so high spec compared to the i7.
I don't know why it was not considered an i7 that, that particular i5.
It was a first gen i5.
I want to say 580 m maybe and the i7 is a 640 m or maybe the 520 I forget now.
It's out, but it's the i7 compared to that i5 has like 1.3 or 133 megahertz more
and it has one more megabyte of L3 cache and it's got the name and that's it.
There is no further benefit swapping that chip.
The HP elite books.
I'm sorry, you, you've got to keep up a little bit longer before you start talking.
I missed what you said in the middle.
Okay, so the HP elite books.
Is that what you were saying?
Yeah, yeah, those are them.
Have you ever checked out the Dell venue 11 pro 71 30 or the 71 40?
No, I haven't.
What, what are they?
Like mill spec books.
Well, no, actually, they're tablet convertibles, but they are rather heavy-duty
just because of, I guess, when they were made and how the keyboard is,
they do feel very solid and they are somewhat thicker than most of your tablets.
And the 71 30 has an i5 processor and the 71 40 has a comparable core m processor.
Well, you can also get the i3 version with the 71 30.
Yeah, so these are the two that I bought both came with i5s and they're both socketed motherboards.
So there's potential there.
I got a 15 inch that's a second gen elite book and I've got a 12 inch that's a fourth gen.
And that one's got huge potential.
That one people turn that into like a desktop replacement with external graphics cards and everything.
I'm not going to do that.
No interest because I don't game, but it'd be nice to have a real powerful ultra portable like that.
Even though the things like seven years old, it is still just wicked fast.
Which version is that one?
The HP elite book, fourth gen.
The model is the 2570 P.
Okay.
There's a very good Wikipedia page on all the elite books.
You can kind of see their specs and most of them to my knowledge, the 11 inches,
the only one that does not have a socketed processor.
No, I keep an eye out because I have teenagers that need laptops for school.
The 11 inch, I'll tell you, I bought the 11 inch for my body.
And I bought the 12 inch for me and the 12 inches giant in comparison.
That that inch makes such a difference.
And even though it's not socketed, you can still get it with an i5 or an i7,
but they're the you spec chips, the ultra low power chips.
And it's the i7 is the one my buddy wound up with, even though we ordered an i5,
they sent us an i7.
And it is really fast.
It is a really, really fast notebook with Linux Mint on it.
And it is rugged.
It is really, really nice hardware.
I mean, they're literally mill spec notebooks, the whole elite book series is mill spec.
Well, I'm looking on eBay and I guess I can.
Order one for $60.
I guess I'd have to put in a hard drive myself.
Yeah, that's the thing.
I spent a little bit more time waiting and looking for one that was complete for myself.
And you know, I wound up getting it for 80 bucks after shipping for the 12 inch notebook.
They seem to run about 100 to 170.
They were all over the place.
The i7s seem to be closer to the 151 70 range.
And anything under that seems to have no RAM, no caddy for the hard drive, no battery, no hard drive.
The adapter.
Yeah, no adapter.
I'm not worried about the AC adapter, though, because I used to own.
Well, I used to have an HP elite book, one of my old jobs, and I know I had extra hour bricks.
Oh, yeah, they're they're the same.
I wouldn't worry about the power brick because they're the same as they've been up until recently.
They went to the smaller plug, but they've all been the same.
As long as it's a 65 watt plug or more, they all seem to like that one.
And I wouldn't worry about the battery because those are about 20 bucks on.
For aftermarket ones are used.
They'll be about the same price and hard drive caddies and the adapters and like the DVD drives or the block off plates.
All that stuff seems to come from China.
So you can be waiting for it for a while.
So my plan was to get one that was complete and that was a good plan.
It powered up like three times.
And then the motherboard died.
And I can't I can't put the timeline together to figure out what might have killed it.
Or if it just was, you know, random chance that it died on me, which is sort of what I think happened, but it may also.
There's the potential that it was a bad stick of RAM.
That caused it, but I didn't report and a modem slot in the side of that laptop.
Say that again. I'm sorry.
That's an ethernet port and a modem in the side of that laptop.
Which one are you looking at?
Oh, this is the HP Elite book 2570 P.
Oh, yeah, okay. So the one that I got.
Yeah, it's it's actually kind of short on ports compared to the other Elite books.
My older one, the 8540 has a million ports all over.
I mean, I think it's got seven USB ports and two of them are USB 3.0.
It's got separate headphone and microphone jacks, which I like.
That thing's loaded.
The Elite book has got quite a few less.
But if you need them, you can get a docking station that's got a lot more ports on it.
Yeah, it's got everything.
These things have like smart card readers built into them.
The, I forget what the hell the port's called.
People plug into eSATA with it. It's like a five gigabit port.
Yeah, no, it's actually an eSATA port.
The 12 inch book has an M-SATA connection inside that's not connected.
You can solder in, I guess a couple of small resistors and enable the M-SATA as a storage drive,
not as a boot drive.
And I guess a lot of people have done that.
And it's the port that's there is meant for a, a WAN card, like a, like a cell card.
But, you know, if you don't use that, you can, you can solder in a tiny, tiny resistance.
You got to be damn good with a soldering iron, but you put in two of those.
And you can have M-SATA on, on the inside.
Plus it's got, say to three connections for the hard drive and for the DVD drive.
So a lot of people will just take out the DVD drive and put in, you know, a couple of solid state drives and go with like a raid zero.
Because it's built right into the, right into the BIOS that you can do raid zero.
Yeah, I don't leave CD DVD drives in any of my laptops.
I, the laptop, if it has it, I pull it, I put in a caddy and put in an SSD.
Dell lets you put a battery in there, but I don't, I haven't been able to find a battery for the HP.
But I really needed, if I use this thing away from home, it's, it's going to be in a scenario where I'd like to have the DVD drive anyway, or at least a CD drive.
But yeah, I think they're very nice, nice notebooks.
We bought my buddy's 11 inch laptop on, on new egg.
And it was refurbed, which is nice because then it comes as a complete running machine with all the parts you need and it's got a warranty.
You know, I mean, I figure if it gets through the first week, it's going to get through the next couple of years, all right.
Oh, yeah.
And that one, and the other thing to look out for if you're buying them used is because these were more often than not corporate machines, a lot of times the bios is password locked and to the best of my knowledge, there is no way to unlock it.
Oh, you can remove the CMOS, can't you?
You can, and you can solder one in that's that's unlocked.
I've seen those for sale in eBay too, but I mean, that's kind of sketchy business.
But then again, these things are so old now for the price of them.
It's worth experimenting with if you're into it.
So you're a Linux Mint fan?
I'm a Linux Mint user, not a fan.
Often on, I mean, I have a buddy who I convinced him to run Linux and at the time Linux Mint was going to be the easiest one to get him to use.
And you know, he's got questions for me often enough that I need to stay familiar with it.
So it's just easier to run it than it is to, you know, dual boot or fire up a second laptop to see what he's talking about.
So yeah, I just kind of run it for that reason.
My favorite distro I've ever run was Salix, but I haven't run it in so long.
I'm not even sure if it's being maintained anymore.
I haven't heard anything about it.
I'm mostly just, you know, Slackware made easy, but you know, it'd be worth it.
At this point, if I didn't have to run Mint, I would probably just run Slackware and figure out how it worked and learn how it worked because I just I loved it so much on Salix.
The only difference between Salix and Slackware is that Salix comes with a package manager and repositories of, you know, compiled software.
You talk, Poke, you say Salix, but I hear Arch.
I don't know what that's about.
That's a weird thing because honestly, I couldn't think of two distros that are further opposite on the spectrum than Arch and Slackware.
I don't know if you're, if you're going with like a package manager, a freak about things, isn't Slackware pretty much Arch?
I mean, you're kind of getting rid of what makes it Slackware.
Not really.
You're getting rid of one of the things that makes it Slackware.
I agree with you, which kind of makes it Debbie in at that point.
What I like about Slackware, what I liked about running Salix so much is just how stable it was, how smooth everything ran.
It was predictable.
Things didn't just change on you because somebody felt like revving something and now your whole UI is different or just the piece of the UI that you need right now is different.
That kind of thing.
I mean, that is totally Arch.
You're not talking about Arch Linux, then.
I'm not sure what you're talking about like the St. Louis Arch doesn't change much.
No, I meant the fact that it does change all the time and things change out from underneath you that that is Arch.
Yeah, I know.
And that's what I really don't like. That's the thing I don't like about Mint.
But that it changes?
Yeah, that they just change it out from under you that you get no warning.
And I can handle it.
My buddy has a harder time with it and, you know, it's it's very frustrating to him.
And every time it happens, he equates it to Windows, you know, not giving you the choice to stay with what you want or to have to change, which I don't think is a fair comparison.
But, you know, I can't really talk him out of it.
No, I've never really noticed Mint changing out from under me.
Really?
Yeah, man, I've been using it every day for years.
I didn't notice that the update manager no longer gives you the number for the update levels there, like the risk assessment on the updates.
That's the problem. I don't use the update manager.
Okay.
There's no apps updates who do I have to upgrade?
Yeah, that's one way to do it.
But I always figured if Mint was meant to work that way, they wouldn't give you that specific update tool.
Maybe like using command line.
So do I, I like, I'll use the command line on a Debian system.
I do prefer it.
But if I'm running Mint, you know, I figure there's specific reasons why they thought to break those things out.
And they've been doing it that way forever.
And then all of a sudden, the 19 three, I think update it was, they just took that away.
You just no longer have those levels.
That I guess 19 three hasn't been around long enough for me to actually go look because I will use the upgrade manager to.
When they come out with a new version update, and I have to update all of Mint, I will use it that.
Sorry, I'm in 19, too, which is a year old now.
19 three is the new one.
I have not checked that out yet, either. Plus in 19, too, they added the, I don't know, snapshots for lack of a better word.
I forget what they call it.
That was.
Time shoot.
Oh, that's not it.
Yeah, you know what I'm talking about, though, like that's new.
They just, you know, that was a change for him that he was like, what the hell is this?
Time.
I can't answer this question.
Other than that, it has stayed.
Oh, and then a couple of times when we've reinstalled, they've changed out the, the icon sets that it ships with.
So we had to go download, we had to figure out what the icon set was that he was using previously and download that again.
And some of the icon sets have nothing to do with the gooey or the desktop environment.
Anyway, some of them are icon sets that are used within, like, Libra Office and that kind of thing.
And it just, you know, it's just a change.
And it's, it was a little harder for him to adjust to, like, I never look at that stuff.
I'm fine with it.
But he gets so used to using the thing and he gets so used to the way it works.
And, you know, the computers become his primary means of communication these days.
It's in the situation he's in.
It's really critical that he can use it efficiently.
So, you know, with the, with the update manager, can you set it just to do the security updates?
Not anymore.
Not there's not a, not in any way that I've seen.
Plus, it seems to run better if every couple of years you do a fresh install.
I mean, like anything would, I guess I do take that option away.
Then set the level of updates that you're doing.
Yeah, that's what I mean.
That was kind of a big change.
That was one that he was used to and he relied on.
Now I get, you know, an email every other day, hey, is this, is this one safe to install?
Was this one safe to install?
And I can't just tell him that, yes, all of them are safe to install because it was maybe three weeks ago that they shipped a kernel that broke his touchpad driver.
About five, three, five, four.
Um, I think it was four, 15 something, something, 72.
I thought four, 15 was pretty stable.
I know that there have been issues with five dot three.
Why I haven't gone past 5.0.
But, um, I didn't know that there was any recent issues in the four one five line.
Yeah, it was just whatever one ended in 72.
It broke the touchpad drivers and his, um, it might be a Dell.
I need to adjust the sensitivity on my mic.
Not always coming up.
Oh, man, we're 20 minutes past the happy new year.
We talked right through it.
Happy new year.
That should do it better.
It should pick up me talking now.
Oh, what do you have?
It sets automatically.
Pick up the box activated.
Yeah, but I use a combination.
Um, I have a hot key to mute my mic.
And then I'll just leave it as a voice activity the rest of the time.
Use my hands free to do other things.
I guess it helps when I hit apply.
Yeah, you can tell mumble was originally written for windows, huh?
Yep.
Yeah, but, um, we kind of found out that having a hot key is great except most people's hot key is that right control.
And you're using a web page for your show notes.
It can have effects when you're trying to scroll through and talk at the same time.
Yeah, it's as to use a key combination of, you know, two or more keys.
That's what my hot mute is, is two keys.
And less I have my other keyboard, which has a bunch of the Japanese keys on it extra.
So that one, it's a one key combo.
Chef, Taj Princhio, foot pedal.
I could do that.
I actually have my stepmother was transcriptionist and she has a foot pedal.
I just haven't hooked it up to a Linux system.
See how it keys in.
I don't know that I could survive with a keyboard that didn't have hyper and math.
What's that?
So a lot of custom keyboards have these two.
And I think hyper is control alt shift in May is like control alt window.
And so basically my keyboard has layers, but then it's like I can make shortcuts with those two.
It's like tripling the amount of keys I have on the keyboard.
Right.
I don't know if those foot pedals work under Linux.
I don't either.
If I look into those for some transcription work years ago.
And there were none that I could find that that would work with Linux at all without some.
I think there was one that somebody was able to map something to, but it was a weird hack.
Yeah, I mean, well, if it sees it as a keyboard and it presses, then it should come up as something.
And you should be able to do something with it there, but I don't know yet, because I haven't hooked it up.
Well, unless it's newer at the time, they didn't even show up as an HID.
They needed their own specific driver.
And then you had to map something somehow.
Yeah.
I know the one that Lyle has.
I think he used you dev to like get it to talk to the computer and to assign the key to it.
But the pedal itself was junk.
You can take an old pedal and just rip out everything, but the switch in it and just wire in like a Arduino micro and just program it to be a HID controller.
Yeah, then wire it to like a guitar pedal.
So you feel all rock and roll.
And it's rugged.
But you probably also order one of those giant big red buttons.
Yes.
And just stop on that thing every now and again.
Not so rugged, I would guess, but yeah.
Well, they've got the padded enter buttons or giant enter button, but they're almost a pillow.
Use that.
Not familiar with that one.
Like the one that opens the door for you at the library, that enter button.
No, no, hold on.
Let me see if I can find it and I'll drop a link.
I should make like a little stuffed something that has a switch in it to give to Lyle that whenever you squeeze it, it just closes them.
And I guess you could remap this as a separate keyboard and have it be whatever you wanted.
That's actually me.
I also love that it has a pull down for the color and it just comes in black.
That's the color.
Yeah.
Like a Model T that way.
Oh, yeah, also attached.
I want you to feel too hard heartbroken about the dead motherboard because I was able to get a replacement for like 20 bucks.
Hey, that's that's a win.
Yeah, like I said, these things are so old now that you can hack on them for very cheap money.
Yeah, I'm just now getting with with my Lenovo to where not like everyday things work great.
But if I'm doing any video or audio stuff, it just like wants to die.
Was it always like that?
Or is it just getting like that now?
It's just getting like that now.
How old is the thing?
It's probably close to eight years old.
I would strongly suggest after all the reason I've been doing and seeing how easy it is actually.
If you take the time to do it right, I would strongly suggest just take it apart, clean the fan and radiator
and replace the thermal paste.
That's not a bad idea.
I had not even thought to do that.
In fact, I was thinking that most of the advantages that I've seen in the tests, the benchmarks that I sent to you and Lyle,
most of that probably has more to do with the new thermal paste than with the change in processor.
Could be.
And since it's a Lenovo, it's like stupid easy to take apart.
And that may be my project tomorrow.
I went looking on Tom's hardware and they had some thermal paste ratings.
And, you know, they just they they had a bunch of different charts that they had made.
I want to say they had about 30 different kind of thermal pastes.
And I just cross referenced the one for the low pressure heat spreader because the laptops like held down with spring.
It's not real high pressure across reference that chart with the easy to use chart.
And the best one I came up with, you know, for both of those was, I think it's called thermal grizzly.
Let me double check.
Yeah, cryo not thermal grizzly.
It wasn't too bad.
It it seems to want to stick to the plastic spatula that it comes with more than it wants to stick to the processor.
So probably be better off using the DAB technique than the spread technique.
This is how you know that poke and I do a show together too often.
I literally almost keyed up and said, hey, drop that in the show notes.
Yeah.
You can still drop that in the show notes.
Yeah, well, he he met the other show.
We do his different page for it.
But yeah, find your link.
Thanks, Pokey.
You could drop that in this show notes.
That would be great or in the mumble.
Yeah, of course.
Well, hang on one second.
We're not using our other show notes here.
That would be very rude.
I don't know. I think at the end of the day, as long as it gets the notes, I think he'd be happy.
Yeah, here's their official page that really doesn't tell you much.
And there'd be the Amazon link and I'll see up.
I'm not sure if I can find the, I'll look for the Tom's hardware page.
I might be able to find that again.
I just got to figure out what time it is.
UTC 130, isn't it?
One guardian.
Some pretty sure I'm minus five.
It is indeed 130.
Oh, it's 805 products.
Yeah, I found it.
It seems a little high for a thermal compound.
I mean, I was just going to spread some mayo on it and call it good.
But, you know, well, they have done tests with mayo and ketchup and mustard.
They work for a short time.
Yeah, they actually did that.
And in this Tom's hardware test, mayo and mustard, what did they use?
They used toothpaste and denture cream.
I bet denture cream would work pretty well.
No, it really didn't.
I wasn't planning on testing it myself.
It looks like it worked a hell of a lot better than toothpaste.
But it doesn't smell minty fresh when it, like, is really chugging on something.
No, probably not.
All the best ones, as far as performance, were all liquid metal.
They were all rated as artists to use correctly as well.
And they're kind of scary.
39 products get tested.
Make sure this is the same one that you're talking about.
Oh, yes, yes, it is.
I see you already posted.
Oh, no, 85 products.
Yeah, it looks like the one you posted was 2013.
And this was 2017.
I'm just looking for the list of the comparison.
There are several lists.
They break it up into which ones perform better under high pressure and low pressure.
And they had another chart for ease of use, which was pretty much in an inversion from all the other charts.
The strip method.
It's all about the sausage.
Yeah, I guess that depends on the shape of the chip.
I was just reading off one of the headlines.
Oh, oh, I got you.
No, I'm kind of a novice at it.
So I spread it out with the applicator that it came with because there were,
I think Arctic silver had very explicit directions on how to apply their stuff.
And then thermobusly came with an applicator.
So I figured I'd do what the Arctic silver said to you.
Really just bust out no credit card and spread it out with that.
Probably that would probably work better than the applicator because the applicator is like textured.
And I think that's what was making it stick to it.
And it would really just roll up on the applicator and slide right off the chip.
I probably wound up putting on too much.
That only gets to be a problem when you're trying to take it off again.
Even then, the newer ones shouldn't matter as much.
It's been a long, long time since I've had a cooler, you know, weld itself to a chip or glue itself to a chip.
Yes, it's just been a really long time since I put together a computer.
Oh, yeah, these new ones shouldn't do that at all.
Like these elite books, they come right apart.
And you don't even have the option of twisting the heat sink out.
You just have to lift it straight up.
You don't even have another oven. It just comes right out.
Cool.
Yeah, when applying too much, makes a difference is when you're using the new metallic ones because they're conductive.
And you don't want them to hit any of the little components that are, you know, next to the chip.
Now, this is completely the opposite end of the spectrum when it comes to price, but it sounds very similar to the modularity that you get with the alienware area 51m.
No, that's at the same end of the price spectrum.
These are just cheap because they're old.
Right. Right.
Like that 11 inch book that I bought my body for 160 bucks.
I looked up a review of that when it was new.
It was around two grand.
Yeah, okay. That would be the same end of the spectrum.
Different age.
Yeah. Like I said, what I, the thing that I like about the elite books is just that they're so rugged.
They're all metal construction.
You know, they're, they're mill spec build.
So they're, they're meant to be able to take abuse.
Not that I intend on abusing it. I'm actually very kind to my hardware, but it can take it in the case of an accident.
Yeah.
And then I also watched several YouTube videos, you know, building up the courage to take the heat sink off and reapply the stuff.
And, you know, all the laptops, you know, all the different laptops that I saw there.
It was the same thing for them.
They just kind of lifted off and they weren't a problem.
The stuff that squeezes out from between the chip and the heat sink that builds up on the side that does seem to harden up.
It was, it was quite a bit more difficult to remove that than it was to remove the other stuff.
But it still wasn't glue thankfully.
But yeah, Taj, I'd be willing to bet that your processor's just throttling back because of heat dissipation.
And it's always interesting to have a laptop that you can take fully apart and put back together and replace parts on.
Yeah, even if it's not practical, it's at least interesting.
Yeah.
Why I bought the 12 inch book, I didn't need it.
I just thought it'd be fun to mess with.
Yeah, the thing I've been tempted to do is to throw an SSD in it because this literally still has spinning rest on it.
My SSD is on the way for me Amazon should be here tomorrow or the day after maybe they don't deliver tomorrow.
Just going to have a hard time deciding which notebook to throw it into.
I mean, I could make it easy and just say mine.
How good do you think my arm is?
I mean, come on.
Good enough to go to UPS and send it to me.
You'd be getting something in the mail for sure, but it ain't that because I know how much you love UPS.
Yeah, there that too.
No, I actually got some stuff on the way that I intend to send to you.
It's just taken a very, very long time to get here.
That's intimidating.
Now, if it was anything to worry about, I would have sent it straight to your house and had nothing to do with it.
Wanted off like a drugstore temporary credit card, you know, well, I'm going through the list of things you've said to me.
Fabric for an awesome hammock.
A shower phone and a box of meat.
So I'm not worried anymore.
Why does one need a shower phone?
Because you can.
Okay.
That's where almost all of my YouTube happens.
Not the ones I post, just the ones I watch.
I actually used some of that fabric the day before yesterday.
That's awesome.
I taught my niece how to sell with a needle in thread my little six year old niece.
Oh, that's cool.
It really easy because of the lines that are in it.
You can you can see where the where the stitch has to be.
So we what I want to do.
And because even that was kind of hard for her as a six year old and figuring it out.
I just took a sharpie and drew dots on all the intersections and like halfway through on the other side.
Halfway between the intersections on the other side of the fabric.
So, you know, she got a stitch about half the distance between the intersections there.
It was really easy for she made a little pillow.
Thank you just unlocked the new pedagogy for teaching kids out of so.
Amen.
I know pedagogy.
I want you to take that back.
I I denounced myself and I rescinded my previous comments.
I'm going to go.
All right, looks like I'm getting called to supper.
So I'll talk to you guys later.
Have a good one.
Thank you.
Happy New Year.
Yeah, happy New Year.
We don't hear from you.
And then there were two.
Does that work?
No.
Damn it.
Yeah, it was funny because I just basically gave her the needle.
You know, and told her.
Make sure she don't poke herself in the fingers and, you know, don't let the loop tie itself in a knot.
I'm going to get flipping the thing over in my hands for us so she could see the dot on the opposite side.
Yeah.
Yeah, it worked pretty good.
I forgot to tell her not to stick me in the finger.
I was wondering why you even told her because that's one of those like self correcting problems.
You do it like two or three times and you're like, you know what the sucks.
I'm not going to do this anymore.
And you know, that's totally my mindset too.
Except when I'm working with the kid, I didn't want her to stick herself in the finger.
It's amazing how much you care for them face to face.
Clearly, you don't worth my kids all day.
No, not all day.
I love the kids.
It's a little different.
The kids I deal with are like 16 through 18.
So they should know better by now.
Yeah.
And there's a bunch of them and they're not family.
That's true.
You know, this is my little niece and we got a pretty good relationship.
And I don't want to ruin that by her sticking needles in her fingers and going home and telling her parents.
Uncle's dog needles in me.
Remember the Christmas of 2019.
Yeah.
We like to call it bloody finger Christmas.
I felt bad for the kid because she was so proud of this little pillow that she made.
And when I say little, I mean, it was probably three inches by three inches.
It was not a pillow.
The human would want to rest her head on.
She's so proud of it.
And she did not want to take it home because she was.
I couldn't even convince her.
I tried talking her into it.
And finally she admitted to me.
She didn't want to bring it home because she knew that her dog would eat it.
Oh, that sucks.
Yeah.
I think she's probably right.
Her dogs are kind of out of control.
So I thought of another project that she could do next time if she still has interest that she.
I think we could just make a pillow case for a regular size pillow.
Oh, yeah.
That would work.
Yeah, especially with that stuff, the ultra light stuff.
Yeah, for sure.
It's kind of comfy.
I'm not going to lie.
It is super comfy.
It's what my hammock is made of.
It feels like satin.
It's really nice.
I still need to like actually go.
Stick it up in the tree and use it.
Oh, but you made it then.
Yeah.
Oh, all right.
You got to get some dineema to string it up with.
Dineema?
Oh, yeah.
Dineema is hot shit.
It's a amp steel is a brand that dineema is a material.
It's really like incredibly high tensile strength per diameter.
It's like picture paracord.
It's a little bit thinner than paracord.
And it's about three times the breaking strength.
Yeah, I'm sitting here looking at it and it's hollow core.
So you don't nod it.
You splice it.
You pass it through itself.
And then it works like a Chinese finger trap.
Hmm.
I'm going to check this stuff out for various things.
Oh, it is the shit.
They make fishing line out of it, but it's so small.
It's dangerous.
You don't use fish and liner on a campsite because it'll just.
It'll open you up.
It'll open an order.
There's definitely not a lack of options for different ways to get this stuff.
No, there's a bunch of different sellers now that are selling it on like Amazon.
You can get it and eBay.
You can get it.
But when I built mine.
I mean, it had to have been four or five years ago now.
You could either order a giant roll of it yourself.
Or you could order it from Western Marine by the foot.
And that was the cheapest way to get it was from them.
I think it was maybe 40 or 50 cents a foot.
Or I think I got maybe four millimeter might be the diameter of this.
It's whatever the one with like a maybe 1600 pound.
Breaking tensile strength.
I think is four millimeter.
I think that's what I want to use.
It's good because it doesn't stretch like nylon with stretch.
You can use polyester, but that's huge by comparison.
And it eventually splinters, which is no good for your hands or for your hand.
So random question.
How light is this stuff?
In measurably light.
That's what I like to hear.
It was designed first.
My understanding is it was first used on racing sailboats for like really rich preppy kids.
You have to say I see a lot of marine use.
So I figured that's probably where it came from.
Yeah, it absolutely is.
If you're going to do it, you want to look up.
I would suggest now because it's a lot easier to get and it's a lot cheaper.
What be sling is the way to go?
Or we'll do you know one on each end.
And then I use a UCR for my ridge line.
If you're going to use a ridge line.
I like the UCR a little bit better than the what be sling.
But what be sling uses more line.
It's much safer and itself cinching.
Whereas a UCR is a little bit trickier.
You have to find a way to cinch it.
It doesn't cinch itself, but it uses half the line.
And a UCR is a universal constrictor rope.
I think is what it's called.
But you can use this stuff to make all kinds of there's all kinds of different places.
You can make one of the call it a soft shackle, which replaces a carabiner.
It's just as strong as a carabiner.
Okay, I see what you're talking about, which one you looking at the what be sling or the UCR.
I've seen a what be sling before.
Yeah, a UCR is nice because it's just it's two separate lines.
One passes through the other, but it doesn't self cinch.
You have to tie some type of a cinch knot to keep the thing taught at one end.
Or else it'll slip on you while you're while you don't want it to while you're sleeping.
Yeah, exactly.
And when they slip, they go all at once.
So it'll it'll start slipping just a little and then it'll just drop you the definition of not fun.
Yeah, correct.
It's a fortunately that has not happened to me and I'm always careful.
They tell you to milk your berries.
And that is why they call the part you, you know, pass through the other line.
You're buried.
B U R Y R R Y.
I don't know.
That's better.
Now I want to go camping.
Yeah, so do I.
Even though it's like snowy outside it.
I really want to just get my my under quilt together and give it a shot.
Up until yesterday, it was like mid 60s here.
So it was actually pretty awesome.
I could have went camping and been completely comfortable.
Oh, nice.
We got dumped on with snow.
It started snowing yesterday morning and just stopped around noon today.
And it's we didn't get a lot of inches of snow.
But we got the heaviest snow I've ever tried to move.
Yeah, thankfully we haven't had any appreciable snow.
We've had a little like a dusting here and there, but that's it.
So hopefully it stays that way.
Oh, this is like our second big storm already.
No, third.
I'm sorry.
It's our third big storm.
Our first two came really early.
How's to say?
I remember you talking earlier in the year about it just like dump us down.
I was like for real.
Yeah, that was unseasonably early.
A lot of years we don't get snow until after Thanksgiving.
That year we got it maybe even in October still.
I mean, we typically we will usually have had at least a little snow by now.
But then usually January is when we get hit the hardest.
That's that's when we do have big snows that's usually in January.
But the last like five years we really haven't had a lot of snow just period.
It's just been too warm.
Yeah, our worst month is typically February.
That's usually the coldest month anyway.
I don't know if it's the worst for snow, but it's usually the coldest.
But I went out snow blowing today and most people did all the snow blowing yesterday,
which in retrospect would have been a good idea because of how heavy this was.
I thought if I waited it'd be better because usually the higher the snow is,
the more the further my snowblower can throw it.
But because it was so heavy that was kind of the opposite this time.
But going out today, everything was covered with snow.
And I went out and cleaned off my bird feeder and knocked all the snow off of it.
And I wound up throwing a lot of the like a lot of seed gets gets dropped in the tray.
And all that came out of the tray and went on the ground on top of the fresh snow.
And every bird in the city saw those seeds on the ground.
They don't always maybe recognize a bird feeder for what it is,
but they saw the seeds on the ground.
I must have had two dozen birds out there at once today.
It's all about contrast white background dark seeds.
Yeah, exactly.
And it even attracted some birds that wouldn't eat on the ground like I've got a woodpecker.
I don't know how you pronounce it to suit so it would have been pronounced it.
Got a woodpecker. That was cool.
Yeah, I just hate snow because I hate having to drive in it because I don't know what I'm doing.
And nobody else on the road knows what they're doing.
And they don't know how to take care of anything.
So it's basically just a giant cluster for a week after the snow.
I've had so many rear wheel drive vehicles that I just love driving in the snow.
And even even a front wheel drive doesn't bother me now.
Just ebrake around the corners.
If I ebrake around a corner, I'm going to carry off a hill.
No, you need to learn to turn into the steer.
In fact, I recommend you ebrake around corners.
It's the smart thing to do.
I have a winter device recommended by my brother.
Have you ever heard of something called tire socks?
No.
Are those like the plastic chains or like zip ties, but chains?
According to my brother, there's something you slip over your tires rather like it was a pillow.
Yeah, that sounds about right.
And then they must have like paddles on them.
Well, he has ordered four of them for his Jeep pit.
Yeah, we are crews up here in the Northeast are efficient enough that we really don't need those devices.
You would think we would because we get a lot of snow, but we got so much gear up here to deal with it already.
And you know, if it gets that bad, you just put snow tires on and they're worth it because you wear them for six months, five months.
But no, I mean it Taj.
It's a good idea to start ebraking around corners just so you can learn how to drive out of it.
So when it happens and you're not expecting it, it'll be instinct.
It's like training at the dojo.
I'd rather just not drive in the snow.
Yeah, but you don't always have that option.
No, if it snows at all, everything shuts down.
Yeah, no, like nothing is open when it snows here.
It's kind of it's kind of comical.
Like it will be a probably to everywhere else in the world, a trivial amount of snow.
And everybody's just like closed, closed for two days.
Like nobody can handle it here.
Like I said, we have the gear to handle it.
And I could certainly understand a place further south, not having that gear.
It's just not going to be in your budget if you don't use it as much.
I mean, it's it's a tremendous amount of maintenance just to keep that stuff running.
I mean, they'll plow the road and they'll throw some salt out.
And like probably say a couple of prayers while they're doing it.
I hope that it does something.
But yeah, it doesn't really do a lot.
Oh, yeah, I was just thinking my uncle who came from West Virginia, worked at Goddard
and lived in Laurel, Maryland.
He was very amused by Washington, D.C. and two inches of snow.
It just took the entire capital and turned it off.
I was in D.C. one time, heading out of it, actually heading for home and just got on the highway in July, I think maybe August.
And a storm came in and it threw down like two inches of hail.
And that was not amusing at all.
No, that just sucks.
Two inches of ball bearings on the road.
Yeah, I can see that.
It was like everywhere you looked, it was like somebody spilled their cooler.
It was incredible.
Well, I remember going to Maine, some Christmas.
And it was icy and the people in the right lane were creeping along.
And this little Volkswagen goes bombing by in the left lane on the main turn pipe.
A few miles later, he wasn't going so fast when he was leaned up against the median strip.
What used to be a very common sight up here to see big trucks spun out in the middle or off to the side because they would put it in four wheel drive and not realize you've got to take it out of four wheel drive when you go on the highway.
And they just, they wouldn't realize that and they'd be spun out all the time, but everybody has all wheel drive now.
So people, I'm a pretty fast driver, but in the snow and in the slippery conditions, I'm fairly cautious.
And, but people even fly by me regularly.
And I don't see them spun out all all wheel drive seems to be an active stability control and stuff.
It seems to work really well because it's the same idiots.
Yeah, you listen to a professional trucker about four wheelers.
You'd swear that these guys cut their driver's license in a cracker jack box.
And it's one of the reasons why I try to stay away from the highways. I try to stick to back roads whenever I can.
Well, my brother was given his first automatic truck.
I've got a 10 speed or something, but it's automatic computerized.
And this one being a Volvo with a Volvo transmission, they're integrated very well.
His previous truck's transmission was not integrated very well because it was like a Peter built-in and adolescent transmission or whatnot.
They just didn't bother harmonizing them.
Quick, somebody say Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Somebody.
Anybody.
I don't have the thing this year.
I forget where I even had it before, where you could see which countries and time zones were switching over it, which Happy New Year.
We used to say Happy New Year to who it was, but I don't have to get where I came from.
I think I have it, and I think I'm reading it correctly. So according to this, Brazil, Uruguay.
Okay, that's it.
It says and one more, but doesn't list to the one.
Brazil Uruguay and Brazil adjacent.
They have a bunch of cities and they're like, I think they're all in Brazil.
So I don't know what this means.
Well, there's also like Trinidad or something that might might be included in Brazil's greedy, like in America.
Like they're also part of the next one.
Yeah, well, they're sort of like Alaska South.
Also, what was really cute is when I was running DOS and dial up and whatnot, I would be downloading programs from Trinidad and Tobago.
Big O users group.
I had all of the world to choose from and, you know, and some of my best stuff came from this tiny little relatively tiny user group.
If they got the stuff, they got the stuff.
One of one of my other treasures here is a is a 1991 internet travel log.
This guy got the contract or sort of for converting ISO's internet standards to PDF and something that people could actually read from their random hack together crap.
And he also set up a sudden server that put these PDFs and whatnot on the internet for open FTP.
The ISO would charge you an arm on a leg for their documents and made it rather difficult to get a hold of.
Also, they had a friendly relationship with their local printers.
So every year they would come out with another truck load of documents because of whose high price they hadn't sold last year, yet.
But after a lot of developing nations started downloading the stuff, the ISO woke up and said, wait a minute.
If they download the stuff for free, they're not paying as exoominant rates for the paper copy.
So the ISO unpublished their standards.
It sounds about right.
Also, the ISO was into their own standards and, you know, X25 and whatnot.
And what they hated was TCP IP.
Because that came from America and ARPA and was an open standard and actually worked and they had their grand planned for the seven layer model of which they only produced seven large layers of paperwork.
And when that every, I mean, their model was that there should be only 256 networks in the world.
Because their model was the network would be provided by the telephone company and anyone who wanted to transmit data would have to pay the toll.
Funny how they keep trying to go back to that.
It seems like a constant battle to try to get us to that point.
But also, at this time, he goes around the world to various people who are actually connecting Hawaii with Japan, Singapore.
The Singapore had a tremendous data processing problem.
The bookies required magnificent layer after layer of superminis to handle, to handle their bets.
Also, Singapore had ISDN telephone.
So you could plug your laptop right into a high speed internet connection.
Thank you very much at any pay phone.
But it was interesting seeing how this guy going around the world a couple of times to see various people who were fighting their way to get their nation's networked and to open portals to the
newly freed Balkans and Soviet blog, you know, former Soviet nations and everything.
Meanwhile, the agency was supposed to do all this stuff attached to the UN, was fighting a valent regard action against TCPIP.
And a lot of times, their X25 traffic was X25 or whatever was blessed by government.
But the actual packets were good old TCPIP.
And, you know, they were only using the foreign stuff, I mean, the ISO stuff, because that was what was decreed, including by the US government.
The fact that very few people listened to the government on this standard was really a good thing.
It was interesting. One guy had an office and he had a blow up skeleton, which was his skeleton stuff.
And they had pictures of the console for some of the imps and tips, which were the original Arpanet interface processors.
The console was the first generation Mac, hidden inside a steel roller case.
But then when I was at UMass in the late 70s, early 80s, I saw a computer that had been donated.
It was clearly a male expect device.
I don't know if anyone had the password, but we had a real problem accessing the device.
The case was built by Mosler.
It was not only probably may have been a drum computer, but how do you get at the machine if it's got this safe type dial on the front panel?
I mean, before you get to the front panel.
So basically putting it in a safe.
Yep, the case was made by Mosler, the safe company.
Somebody clearly donated a machine, which they had no use for.
Again, they got a tax credit and it was very deep in the balls of UMass and may still be there.
Things like that tend to be running some sort of like critical infrastructure thing that nobody remembers what it is until it dies.
This was not attached to anything.
Although speaking of critical infrastructure, somebody shipped us a whole bunch of discrete negative logic, PDP8s, 4K units.
Evidently, they were the drum controllers for, for like a PDP 20 or something.
These machines came with four, with a front panel, four kilowatts of memory, and a weight that would give anyone a heart of it.
But we had no peripherals, no nothing.
Wouldn't give me any.
My back's already so screwed up, I couldn't even stress that hard against it.
Well, I'm trying to work mine through.
Since leaving treatment, I've been dealing with some depression and intended to have me stay in bed too much and my back is now I'm trying to negotiate a new contract with my back.
The inversion table has been when wonders for mine and the occasional muscle relaxer as well is very nice.
Well, I may have to see where I can get an inversion table and then see where I can work on it.
There's dozens of them on Craigslist in your local area.
People buy them, they pay too much for them, and then they wind up stop using them.
Yeah, you can pick them up. You might want a friend to help you actually lift the thing because they are pretty heavy.
And there's a couple of videos online about using them.
But the basic trick is to try and limit them at first.
You really don't need to go full inversion.
You don't need to give yourself a headache.
If you can just get a couple degrees past, you know, parallel with the floor.
It's going to have some effect on you.
And then you just you work your way into it like the first day, you do like 15 seconds in the second day.
You maybe try to go for 30 seconds and you just you work your way up that way.
You don't you don't go for like 15 minutes and sit up on your first day.
That's that's how people hurt themselves and get sick of it.
Well, I would have to find somebody.
Yeah, I've got a couple of jobs like that.
Most of them come with a tether so you can limit how far you go over on the thing.
And you can just, you know, tether it to go to, you know, 10 or 15 degrees beyond parallel.
That's that's mean at first, that's all you need.
And that even that's going to make a difference.
What it does, the inversion tables it.
It pulls your discs up.
Well, pulls your vertebrae apart a little bit.
And it puts a little bit of negative pressure on your vertebrae.
And just that little bit of negative pressure.
And then compressing again is enough to pump fluid in an out of them.
Because there's no active pumping system for the fluid and the lubricants around your discs.
Yeah, actually, I've had a pinched nerve and.
It was interesting spending 20 minutes a couple of times a week being hung by a.
Very lovely physical therapist.
Now, I was hung on a slope, so it wasn't too bad, but still.
Yeah, all my physical therapists just laid me flat and used a like a big leather belt that they wrapped behind my knees.
And then they would just lean back on it.
They never put me in an incline.
Well, if I get myself together, I may have to see about going to some kind of therapy to see what's going on.
The couple of things that I did before I got the inversion table, you can you can lean back on a table.
Just lock your arms straight behind you and lean back on like a low table, like a desk.
And kind of make a sitting position with your legs that takes some weight off your back.
That's pretty good.
When things were real bad for me, I, and you know, I was told not to get an inversion table because it was right after the surgery.
I got crutches and I just leaned on crutches for a while because even that will take some weight off your back.
But a lot of the things you learn at physical therapy, you can do like just walking back and forth the different sweeps they have you do with your leg and stuff.
You can do that in a swimming pool, like at the YMCA and even that has a lot of positive effect if you do it routinely.
So I'm going to have to see, I find that if I'm up enough and just keep changing position from sitting to standing to, you know,
you know, kneeling up on the bed, that kind of thing, tends to unlock the back after a bit.
Yeah, I'm familiar with that. If I stay in bed too long, it hurts real bad.
Yeah, my brother has said that, you know, sometimes he's cut a bed back being a trucker.
And he said, you know, just laying on the floor, sort of in a fetal position has helped his back sometimes.
Yeah, my, my disc is not bulge that way.
The fetal position is one of the worst positions for me.
Well, I think mine is largely a muscle, hopefully not a disc problem, but more of muscle issues.
Oh, muscle issues are easy, just throw booze at it.
Well, that tends to be discouraged when you're taking 60 milligrams of proza.
That's probably a fair point.
Well, my cat has stopped snoring here.
You know, it's interesting, my cat's getting old enough to snore.
Also, I can tell when I've been sleeping very deeply is the cat will show up on my chest or nearby.
And when I'm a restless leaper, the cat stays out of my way.
That's funny, because my cat has snored since he was a kitten.
Well, I have a tuxedo cat that's getting up there in years.
We've got a cat, my cat's like seven years old, maybe, and my wife just got another cat who's probably two or three years old.
And it's really funny because I can see where the term copycat came from because they're picking up each other's habits.
Well, one of the fellows that I follow on YouTube, this spring picked it up a main cune kitten.
Those are typically pretty friendly cats, but I don't think I'll ever have another long hair cat that's just too much work.
Well, a friend of mine who had one lived in an apartment and she saw this cat out in the hall and he said,
oh, one of my neighbors has got a kitten.
One of her friends says, no, that's a normal sized cat.
Between the long hair and their general big, well-instructed, huge.
Yeah, they're all over the place up here, being so close to main.
In what end of civilization are you?
I'm in the southern end of New Hampshire.
Yeah, well, I'm south of Boston.
And I used to believe that I moved into civilization when I crossed the bridge, Kiddery, headed north.
Yeah, I don't know if I can agree with that.
Those maniacs are maniacs.
Well, my folks, one was from West Virginia in a very patriarchal family.
And my mother was from Maine if anything is a little on the matrilineal side.
And they were married.
And my mother's queen of boiled dinners and my dad is used to southern cooking.
It was definitely one of those things where Evan made them in the devil match them.
And one of the things that they were clear on was since both of them had their names on the deed, they owned the house.
And their children had no investment in it.
So going to my grandparents in Maine in West Virginia where I was actually welcome was a very important fact.
Probably saved my somewhat better insanity.
Whereabouts in Maine?
Belgrade and up in well to Maine.
My mother's original farm was taken for Mount Blue State Park.
Yeah, I'm not familiar with either of those towns.
Those must be up there pretty far.
Well, the Belgrade lakes is about 15 miles from Augusta and well and well is up near Mount Blue State Park.
The Rangely Lakes area.
All right.
Which is sort of Midwestern Maine.
Yeah, Maine is actually a gigantic state if you try to move through it.
If you try to drive through it, it's enormous.
Yes. On my grandmother's farm up there, there was at one time there was a grass airstrip running along the ridge line.
One of the larger crimes that I heard of was the fact that the family carved up that at 360 acre farm.
They probably lost only maybe a million, maybe a million five.
If you advertise to farm like that in like New York City where some rich guy could come up there and had a barn and stuff on it.
You know, with it with half an airstrip.
But they had to have their little pieces of the rock.
Howdy, howdy, everyone.
So weird random pop quiz question.
Maine is the only state that actually borders one other state.
Everyone else here the board is more or none in the case of Alaska and Hawaii.
Indeed. So you might want to turn your mic up a little bit on the phone.
So I'm not sure I can't see what I can do.
That helped a little just getting a little closer.
Whatever you just did yell basically right into the phone.
That's doing it. It sounds better.
Well, there we go.
How's everyone going?
I mean, how you been busy?
It's been a weird few months with not going to go into a ton of personal stuff.
Just things happening life happening.
Nothing bad.
Just, you know, marriages people moving out and just a bunch of stuff like that.
So it's just been really busy.
But it's nothing like said, nothing bad.
It's all good.
It's just been busy.
What moving out?
Oh, Mini's got married and moved out of the house and took the cap with him.
So that was a bit of an adjustment to no longer having.
Not captain underpants.
Mini.
I mean, he did like captain underpants.
Oh, shit.
Has it been that long?
I like captain underpants myself.
Yeah, it really has been that long.
He has now married.
He is over the age of 18.
He is.
He is a homeowner.
He smokes.
Time flies, man.
Yeah.
No, I should have been doing HPR for what?
11 years now or something.
I mean, yeah, it is crazy.
Well, I say I've been doing HPR for 11 years.
I mean, I've been showing up for the New Year show the last few years.
I really, I'm behind on my shows.
So sorry, Ken.
But yes.
I had recorded one earlier, but I sound terrible.
I'm getting over this horrible, lurky thing that seems to be going around.
And I still think I'm about a quarter octave down from where I normally am.
I've sound weird.
And for someone who hates the sound of his own voice, especially recorded, it's really not fun.
But I have a response to a car to episode he did talking about setting up his own like tiny URL version.
And I was going to do an episode on that.
Which the short version is you get yourself a domain, the free domain or some other way.
And you go to a website called short.cm.
So the word short Sierra Hotel Oscar Romeo tango.
Period Charlie Mike.
And they will let you do your old short enough through them.
There are certain limitations on the free one.
So you can only do a thousand.
No darn a thousand at once that is, but you can do your own ones.
So I got to the room.
What I set up now that it's it's a camera what I did.
I set one up for HPR and it bounces you to HPR.
But it's like you go to the website and it's like forward slash upload virus or something.
Because you know, I could.
Are you so cheeky?
Yeah, I had a rather eventful.
Well, spring is.
I'll see if I find it.
Yup, he found a uploaded virus.
All right.
Disconnected him right off the server.
Well, this year that inspecting my property for some future work.
The town found a leak in my water line.
So they promptly cut it.
And ran a garden hose from a hole in the street to my house.
And they got replaced with the in all weather copper, copper line.
Along the way, my front line got basically removed.
And some other stuff got rearranged, including getting rid of the last of it.
And I had a stereo head and a barberry bush, which was as far as I was concerned, just a thorn bush.
So now I have a bold front lawn.
Did you say you were from South of Boston as in Massachusetts or Austin as in Texas?
I am South of Boston.
Down on the fringes of the META.
Gotcha.
Okay, I just posted a, you know, a world time zone map in the chat there.
It's not the best one.
So it's good as the one we've had in years before, but it seems to be the best one that comes up on duck duck go right now.
Which by the way, since it's like a random topic type of show, can I throw some love at duck duck go?
Oh, it's always.
It's awesome.
It really is.
This thing, you know, forgive me for saying so, but it used to be crap.
And I avoided it for years, because it just, it was no good.
At least for me, it wasn't.
Maybe I just didn't know the right invocations to get it to, to search for me.
But, you know, I did an install of mint recently that was a fresh install.
I did an install of mint recently that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh
one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that played but as a recovery period till now from before being in a real man, Service Shee is a fresh one that was a fresh one that played about 7x20 is a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh one that was a fresh two that was a fresh one that was a fresh one I really liked to see and saw
Well, I've been a new job last three years. I've dealt a lot with content. This docker,
fun times. Still trying to get my head around Cuban ETs, but that's all covered a lot in other places.
So, yeah, I mean, yeah, it's sort of fun times all around, I think.
Yeah, I've had a new job, not new anymore, but five years ago I changed jobs.
And my whole world kind of changed. And I have, like, I barely get a chance to mess around with Linux anymore.
I work with Windows all day long. And the last thing I want to do is use a computer when I get home. So I've, I've gotten so much worse at it.
So, my sympathies, Matt, that gig I've been last three years. I've been very lucky, sort of almost everything we've got is in no small part of extra in my influence is mostly a book.
I think it's a marketing department, still always and or to max.
It's still pretty cool that other people at your work are using Linux. That's, that's fairly awesome.
I've just looked into one of those situations where a company is at a certain point and they're really true.
And the one thing they wanted to do was save a lot of me. So they're like, hey, we can run bus stuff and not have that extra for this. Oh, that's okay. Then let's do that.
One thing I'm hoping to dig into real soon now, I know, sounds like a New Year's resolution is known boxes.
It sounds like a cool technology, but he's rather under documented.
No, not dealt with that before. Can you describe it?
Well, it is on the basis. It's basically a virtualization system like virtual box based on Linux tools and Linux environment.
It also is supposedly having communication channels to other known boxes installations on other machines.
I haven't played with it much. However, I do know that vert manager provides a lot of the nuts and bolts tweaking that known by itself being a minimalist construction does not provide out of the box.
It sounds extremely useful. I use it, but I don't do anything special with it. It's usually just like boot and ISO or something.
So I mean, to me, I use it just like I would have used virtual box, but I hear it can do a lot cooler things under the hood.
So what is it like abstraction between gnome shell and virtual machine?
Yeah, I mean, it really it just I use it to spin up virtual machines. I mean, that's all I use it for, but there is supposedly more plumbing underneath it to like net minor was talking about to like wire together virtual environments and stuff like that.
It's just that's not the use case I use it for.
Again, you look at their web page and there's the documentation is very minimal.
I mean, someone might be able to prove that all the information is there, but digging it out requires a certain amount of spelunky.
And the fact that a lot of the virtual box tools have to be provided by work manager going in and tweakingly the package produced by boxes itself makes things considerably hairy.
That sounds like interesting tech nonetheless. Yeah, well, since most of my machines that are regularly used or multi core and have fat memories because they were designed to eventually do VM service.
Let us hope VM host. I really like the vert manager and I like the fact that it uses spice and web dev in place of the more proprietary virtual box tools.
Yeah, so it's abstracting things out nicely.
It does reasonably nicely again, the documentation is pretty limited and you have to boot a machine, freeze it, and then you can tweak it.
You can't set up easily a template like you can with a virtual box or a lot of other virtualization solutions and then populate the template that you built.
It starts up what it thinks it needs and then you have to stop it and go in and get out to spend it.
You got to sort of build your own environment from a starting point.
Right, and the starting point is whatever virtual, whatever boxes considers its starting point.
Again, under documented, there may be a configuration file somewhere, but it's not not a straightforward process.
But since I'm running Linux and I don't need a lot of the cross-platform stuff that is in virtual box, I'd much rather work with a Linux on Linux solution or at least one that's somewhat Linux on Linux or VSD on Linux or what have you.
Yeah, everything's in a familiar environment. I got you, Matt.
Since I got here late, can you just been dipping in and dipping out or is he just not around at the moment?
I haven't heard from Ken all day, but I've been kind of in and out.
What, seven or eight hours ago? I was talking to him.
Fair enough, because yeah, I actually went into him at Ogcamp this year and it was sort of, hey, man, yeah, sorry, it's been like 11 years and I still owe you a show whoops.
Okay, so I can't actually find it. Short does see him. It looks like they're actually having issues at when we log in.
But I did set up a short link and I can't find it.
So, yeah, oh, come.
Technology is here to just try us sometimes. It is indeed.
But then again, if it worked all the time, I wouldn't have had a job.
So I, yeah, spent my career either writing or fixing stuff.
So, and I'm still doing that on my current job, you know, working on stuff.
So that seems to be how it's going.
We're massively windows, though, we are a work for an education company, I will say.
But basically Microsoft is stupidly good deal.
Because we're education, we get office 365 for free, basically.
There is some licensing fees that we, it costs us like $780 grand a year, which we have to pay in a way for licensing stuff, windows, desktop and stuff.
And everything else is thrown in basically.
So we get, you know, 1000 licenses here, 10,000 of these, 5,000 of those, depending what it is.
We have infinite licenses for staff and students.
Literally, I can go into office 365 and it's, you know, you have license to have many of infinite.
So it's kind of, it kind of skews the things like, well, we could do Linux,
it costs the same just to do windows and that ties into everything else we have.
So let's do that.
Zalker use and plumble.
Yes, I am. I'm running around on my phone.
So yeah, probably sounds fairly terrible.
No, it actually sounds really good.
It's really surprising that you're using your phone and it sounds that good.
It's the best I've heard plumble sound.
It's one of the joys of, sorry, it's one of the joys of mumble.
And it doesn't seem to matter what client you use as long as you're in the right environment.
It sounds very, very good.
Are you using a wire headset or a Bluetooth?
I'm yelling at the phone.
No, I'm like, my mouth is half an inch from the phone.
They said it's, it didn't sound too well when I said normally.
So I have the phone held upside down.
I'm talking like so half an inch from the from what traditionally will be the microphone end of the speaker.
Yeah, of some microphone end of the handset, but.
So I'm sort of yelling at that.
But yeah, that's it.
I'm nothing special at all.
Well, actually, most people try to use headsets and that's where you get problems.
That's why he keeps muting it because otherwise the speaker kicks off his voice activation or act maybe be always on.
But keep getting that goes.
Yeah, I think I think it's always on.
So I just mute, mute, mute, mute, which is kind of annoying, but.
You can try to push the talk.
It's really hard to do that with the touch screen when you're not staring right at it if you're doing something.
And if he's trying to use his hands, I get why he's muting it.
Okay.
Actually, one thing I found that worked quite well a while back is if you're on an Android phone, there is now an application.
And then I forget the name of it, but if you've got a phone that has several available physical keys, you can remap them.
And I had a phone.
I actually remapped one of those as my push to talk key in plumble.
No kid.
And what's that out?
Give me a second.
I'm going to go find out the name of it.
It is in afteroid.
Do you need to be rude?
Oddly, there is an option in plumble that does say use hardware keys.
So I don't know how well that works.
Hardware keys, especially those outside the sort of what Android it gets to be there are a funny thing.
But this application lets you remap them no matter what they're got.
I'm just going to go to where to find out what it is so I can tell you go.
Now, so you say you're running around.
Are you running around the house and you're on Wi-Fi or are you doing this on a cell network?
Oh, no Wi-Fi.
I'm running my daughter is listening to.
I don't know what Disney show on her tablet.
So I ran to the other end of the house.
So I sort of flipped in and out.
So yeah, I'm a Wi-Fi.
It's a Google home hub.
Whatever.
The root one anyway.
We're on current memory.
It's like I shoot the cheapest they offer.
But it's like a hundred made connection down.
And I think 10 up.
It's frozen.
By the way, she's listening to frozen.
You know that for definite.
You said you said you said Disney and daughter.
I tell you I will go and see if you're right.
If I'm not, it's pretend you didn't go look.
Okay, the app I mentioned is actually literally called a mapper.
I will post the link in the mumble chat.
A mumble chat of nobody minds.
There was a time and it feels like it was not long ago.
That I knew every application in the F droid store.
F droids.
Like there will be long periods where you will see.
The occasional update to stuff you use regularly.
And then nothing new.
And then occasionally something new pops up.
Key mapper is actually a fairly recent one.
So can you use it?
Like say you're using plumble like Zog's doing now.
Can you map your power?
Or your screen on and off key to be the push to talk.
Is it going to be just while plumble is open?
Or does it change it permanently?
Or is it just not going to work at all?
Because you can't remap the screen key.
It depends on both the key and the application.
So if the key would normally be used for something built into
your device, you don't need to be routed to use it.
But you can usually bind a physical key to an app.
A shortcut explicit by an application.
Like should talk with plumble.
Or you can also bind a long mess on the physical key to launch an application.
Sounds pretty cool.
I am actually going to draw.
Can't change any of the settings whilst I'm running.
I can actively connect to a server at her.
And it's not frozen.
It is some show pots where like stalks deliver babies or something.
And they I don't know.
Just something.
So yes, frozen.
Thanks, OK.
I knew I could count on him.
I'm going to head out of the zone for weeks.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at HeckerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contribute link
to find out how easy it really is.
Hecker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
