Episode: 2001
Title: HPR2001: HPR Community News for March 2016
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2001/hpr2001.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:11:12

---

This is HBR episode 2001 entitled HBR Community News for March 2016 and is part of the series
HBR Community News. It is posted by HBR volunteers and is about 89 minutes long. The summary is
HBR Community News for March 2016. This episode of HBR is brought to you by
an honesthost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello everybody. My name is Ken Fallon. You're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio
Community News for March 2016. For those who don't know, Hacker Public Radio is a community
podcast that's recommending the shows are contributed by people like you're good self.
If you haven't contributed to the show already, please consider doing so as that is vital to
the ongoing success of HBR as a project. HBR Community News is a show that's put on monthly
by the HBR community and this is turning into an informer show.
Turning me tonight. Our is Dave Morris, how you live.
I send to the fan plural this week, but no, it's just me. Just me.
So, exactly. I don't know, we do this show removing the professionalism from
we do the show every month so to give people an idea of what's going on on the mailing list and
basically other she'll have a quick run through the shows so people get some feedback
on the stuff that they have done, the contributions that they have made.
And we've had some very good contributions this month. Starting with HBR in 1977.
But hold your horses there, because we have two new hosts this month.
You're saying this is so Dave.
And they are Brian in Ohio and no place like Slash Home, which actually the speech synthesizer
managed really, really well. I was impressed.
Cool. I must confess, I have not listened to that show as yet for the following reason.
On Friday, I was working from home and I left my media player, sounds a tip in work.
And it's my daughter's birthday and we were getting ready for that on Friday afternoon.
So, unfortunately, I haven't had a chance to listen to that, but I will. I will listen to it.
I do promise. I listen to all the shows.
Well, I have listened, so I'll make my comments when the time comes.
If that helps. Please do so.
Okay, the first show last month was Mirror Shades, which the Texas Beach did butcher.
It was what in my toolkit?
Yes indeed. He's got a pretty comprehensive toolkit there, I think.
Being the node I am, I like to follow up all these links.
There's some pretty cool stuff there, I have to say.
None of which I shall buy, but it looks really nice.
If it has, it's always good when you do these shows to put in the links.
So, that's a feel bag.
Oh, this looks very desert stormy.
Yeah, it's an impressive list and the links are brilliant.
Yeah, yeah, I should say thank you for them.
It's always fun to do to follow them through, actually, I find.
And I had never heard of that pocket reference before by Thomas J. Glover.
No, that looks like fun judging by some of the reviews there.
Yeah, I was thinking if he wanted to do a review of the book quite actually in it,
that would be quite excellent, really.
Yeah, that would be great, I do, wouldn't it?
Just digressing slightly, the Stanley Pocket screwdriver
is the same one that John Culp uses, I believe.
Because it was on my wish list, that's how I happen to know.
I've never bought one, but it's on my wish list.
It is definitely not on my wish list because I had one month and
a colleague of mine, we were standing and talking to each other
and she picked it up off the desk and was like waving her hand about
and she waved at me like, and the blade came up and caught a gash on the top of my head
on my skull.
Oh my god, stuck into the stud wall behind.
Oh my god, blood got over her and this thing
did an inch deep into the stud wall behind.
Wow.
Okay.
Yeah, yeah.
So it's a throwing solution of Stanley's screwdriver.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'll maybe take that off my list then.
No, I'm sure that was not an intentional use case.
No, no, no, no.
No, it still looks quite a nice thing to have actually just as
the fact that it's a pocket driver.
All my other ones are big, big hulking things.
You know, it'd be quite useful to have around.
Yeah.
So the following day, we had ultra high vacuum loading samples.
Like, I'm new zip, I'm in new zip.
As you know, my job here is to butcher people's names.
So don't do that from time to time.
Let's just check and see if there were any comments on what's on my bag.
Surprisingly enough actually.
And this was a show about loading a high ultra high vacuum system,
which I actually like this.
It's become a little bit of a look into somebody's life.
Obviously, I would never be able to get access to this sort of equipment.
So it's pretty cool.
No, it's quite cool, isn't it?
I got the impression that he there was a bit of audio missing,
but I couldn't quite work out just just to jump to the comments quickly.
He commented on it himself saying he uploaded the short version.
And he's got a longer version of the audio,
but we never seem to receive it, which is quite sad.
Oh, okay.
That is a bummer.
But yeah, it's uploaded longer version as well.
And John Colp, how to make perfect steel cut oats.
And I was filling my father-in-law's car with petrol when I was listening to this.
And I have this every morning.
So, but I think there's a lot of work to do with slow-cooked overnight.
Yeah, I never come across steel cut oats before.
I think because it's not a term often used in the UK in Scotland.
It's called pinhead oatmeal.
So I bought some actually to check it out.
And he's right, it's not easy to cook on the stove.
I think it takes a bit of practice and it does take a long time too.
But I do happen to have actually my daughter's a little little slow-coco,
which I'm going to check out.
I haven't got around to it yet.
We roll oats with, and the fucking thing is I do not eat porridge with water.
I always make it with milk with any type of milk.
So about a liter of half-skim milk and then another half liter of water of boiling water.
And then boil it, put add the oats and then boil it.
And then you don't get that horrible cardboardy feeling from the oats.
It takes some time.
Yeah, yeah.
I used to cook it for my kids when they were younger.
They quite like porridge rolled oats again.
But yeah, and putting milk in it is a good thing to do, I found as well.
Yeah.
Cool.
How did it?
Mr. X had it fixing on.
Hold on.
Oh, sorry.
There's some comments, there's some comments.
One of which, the first one, the first one of which was mine,
basically saying the thing about pinhead oatmeal
and trying to cook it and all that stuff that I've already said.
And I do have two slow cookers.
I've got a giant one for the family.
And it seems there's no way I could use that for cooking porridge,
because it you'd end up with a bucketful.
But yeah, the, I think John says in reply that he has quite a large slow cook.
But they make a family-sized portion.
So yeah.
So anyway, there's...
John, for the sentence, I'm saying the slow cook
who is just barely not too big.
There's something wrong with that sentence.
John?
Yes, yes.
I can't comment on that, just have no idea what it means.
Just barely not too big.
As in, it's almost, it's just perfect if it's just fine.
As in, there would be space, there's barely any space left over for two servings.
Yes, okay, yes, fine.
And you replied the way of the old.
Yes, I do want me to read that.
Strategies for me, strategies for me seem to be tried to perfect the stovetop method,
get a smaller slow cooker or something else.
Actually, my daughter has a smaller slow cooker.
And if she's not using it, I might grab it for OT duties during the mid-term break,
which I did.
And I haven't tried it yet, though.
And my son's visited recently, I said,
and he found a recipe for steel-cut oats using a pressure cooker.
But that seems like a big old hassle to me actually.
So yeah, anyway, I'll skip the rest of it.
I still have it. I've never seen steel-cut oats anywhere ever in my life.
You don't, like I said, you don't hear them, you don't find them called that in this country.
The actual grain is chopped up with presumably a sort of spinning knife thing,
rather being rolled through rollers like rolled oats are, and you know, it's chopped.
So you get little pieces of grain when you look at it.
They look like pellets or something.
Yeah, really, really tough enough.
Mr. Colp has distracted us long enough.
And then we had Mr. X, who was fixing an audio problem when he went into a round.
How many shows have started doing another project and then ended up
ended up finding, becoming an expert at something and then, yeah, recording more shows about that.
I think it was good. I like shows like that.
Yeah, it's good. I enjoyed this one.
It was both, it was interesting from the audio side.
And I very much agree with his comments about too much automation and all that sort of thing
that he was talking about. So yeah, cool.
Yes, I completely agree with him on that.
And then we had the community news, which had two comments.
And those comments were from Polpi.
When you were supposed to show that it's been cost-pleased, changed the phonelms,
otherwise the park catchers.
Okay, this has got to do with, this has got to do with the, um,
sad tale of the, uh, of the RMS podcast, which, unfortunately,
is the length it is.
Yes, I think we've had to report shows twice in the past.
Um, twice, I've had to report shows twice in the past.
And we have a mechanism to do this and the database, we change the version number,
and then they, uh, you get a new version down in the, uh,
podcast, it's called HTTP or whatever does something, something else.
And that's enough to trigger a new download.
Yep, yep, I've seen it happen, so yeah, I can vouch for that.
And Jesra was, uh, uh, I made a comment about, um,
bugs, my, getting lights working for the kitchen.
And Jesra and in my bill, in fact, um, have helped me out with that.
And I think I, uh, they've helped me identify the requirements.
One of the things is, uh, basically mixing to, um,
high, high current AC with DC or low current AC, probably not a good idea.
So, um, I'm just going to have a Arduino or something.
Um, so the DC light switch on the door.
Um, and then, um, or it's not a DC light switch, along with the other ones.
And then, uh, just have the power on an Arduino,
which first thing is to turn off the RGB and turn on the, um,
the, uh, LEDs, uh, the white LEDs.
So it'll act like a kitchen countertop, thank you.
Cool, sorry, good, very simple.
Yeah, yeah, I couldn't have told you how to do it, but I have seen people do this type of thing.
Yeah, the, the idea of how putting a dimmer in would make it a lot more complex, because,
yeah, dimming LEDs is a complex thing, both when I put it to my, uh, my wife,
who also lives here, she says, I don't care, on, off, fine.
And with the Arduino, yeah, with the Arduino, we can set a, uh, I can go in and then set,
you know, that variable to be how bright or dim.
So if she says, yeah, that's how bright I want, just that I can make it that bright.
Yeah, next day, fantastic.
It's cool actually to have a, uh, I was just talking not about those, uh, those two guys who
were able to help out, but it is just amazingly, it's amazing the number of people that come into your
circle due to, uh, HPR, you know, who did thought we would know so many people around the world,
and I know in the first quotes, you know, if I turn the people's door, they're like, what the hell?
Who the hell are you? Um, but, uh, you know, you have a feeling that you know, all these, uh,
people, and you can call it upon them for, you know, tips and stuff, which is really awesome and
amazing. Yeah, absolutely. No, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's broadened my horizons a lot. It's, uh, yeah.
I, um, I met, uh, NY Bill in, in person at, um, and I'll go to the old camps. Yeah.
And I had to go around the room, speaking to the few people I did know, saying, do you know,
NY Bill, could you point him out to me? Because of that very reason.
Yeah. Same, same, very strange. We go in the end.
Are you, you're, you're there and you, uh, uh, one of the other camps who's, you know,
drinking a beer and then suddenly you hear somebody next year who's the voice of, uh, a podcaster,
a podcaster that you've never heard before. Oh my god. No idea that they look like that.
I do this. Yeah. That's it. That's it. Actually, that's probably my avatar is the way my avatar is.
It's just a picture of my face because, uh, so that people will recognize me and then they can say,
hey, I listen to the show and then I can say, hey, you should do a show then. I don't know,
not your Jordy. Hey, completely on steroids, send it in chills. That's what we like to hear.
Keep them coming. And his configuration, if he ever loses that configuration, he's absolutely
screwed. I'll tell you that for nothing. Yeah, that rap poison stuff looks interesting,
but boy, is it quite, quite involved from what he was saying? Yes, but he, I think he has a,
as he says himself in the show, he has a desktop that is fine tuned to his needs. And nobody
else that needs his, his computer is absolutely awesome that you can do that. You know, I think
yeah. Sure. I'm sorry when you go ahead. No, I was just going to say I very much appreciate what
you've saying there, because I spent huge amounts of time fiddling around with, with, with my setup
over the years. So, you know, that rang many bells in my mind. And the thing is, when I, uh,
I was listening to that, this and I was thinking, yeah, I don't customize my stuff at all. You know,
I've, I just upgraded and then whatever. And then when I do do a full install, I realize, oh,
um, all my settings are still on my hardest from when I upgraded and upgraded and upgraded,
I mean, I've taken over even if you switch distors and all of a sudden, yeah, maybe I do,
you'll spend three or four hours trying to change stuff to the exact way I like it. So yeah,
but a good backup is in order, I think, definitely. Yeah, yeah. I was looking through my,
um, hard disk on my, my current machine just the other night. And I suddenly realized I had
files and configurations going back to the desktop machines I had on my desk at work, you know,
like about 10 or 12 years ago. Um, some not relevant anymore, but still they were there because I
was very careful about gathering more together and moving them forward every time I moved, you know.
Yeah. So historical piles of junk, I guess you'd call them, but there you go. Yeah, I'd never
seen that Sakura terminal before. No, I checked that one out, actually, it looked interesting,
but not quite enough features for me, but still quite good to have as a lightweight thing, I thought.
Yeah, yeah, each to their own, that is the beauty of links. It used to be a thing, you know,
when that was really very much encouraged, and then we wouldn't have come along and said,
no, no, no, we're going to decide what you think. And yeah, then everybody switched to that
method of working. Now, I've got about five terminal emulators I use all the time, so I don't,
I don't do it that way. Cool. Um, the following day we had Sony via VPC, and it was Swift,
uh, 110 from the, uh, IRC on cash, on cash plows, if you're interested on 3.0,
and four gigs of RAM, uh, 5,400 RPM, hard disk drive, and mint 17.3, basically, uh,
reason and all that. Pretty cool. Yeah, it was, it was an interesting review, actually.
Made it sound like quite a quite a fun machine to have. I would be reluctant to get a Sony,
uh, I've had bad experiences in the past, um, just, uh, even back when I was doing Windows,
I've had bad experiences with them. Yeah, I've never had one, and I do actually have enough laptops
to be going on with just now, but still it's always interesting to, uh, to speculate on these things.
Gather two comments to that, uh, uh, can you, can you read off?
Thanks. Well, somebody with an unpronounceable name, AOS, K, F, L, A, I don't know how to help you
say that. That's cheating. That's cheating. Okay, then AOSC flat. That's obviously,
I say, I mean, come on, obviously, that's how, uh, yeah, with the flounders, that's
says, it's obviously a friend of Swift 110. I says, boop. Hey, Swift 110, it's Zen. Why,
if you're Zen, you have that name. Anyway, uh, and then Mirochet, uh, Miro Shades says great
job on the shows. I might be wrong, but I think you might find that the fourth USB port is also
the E SATA port. I have a laptop that's with E SATA USB port and I've found that it works,
but USB devices don't plug into it as smoothly as a standard port. You may have to fiddle with it
to get it to work, which is an interesting thing. I'm sure I've seen this. I've never, have
I used any SATA port, but I'm just looking out for that. I have, uh, E SATA external hardware
this can work. And, uh, yeah, yeah, I've never seen, never thought that you could plug in USB into,
maybe it's just the thing. Yeah, yeah. It's, um, I'm sure I've seen laptops listed on, you know,
manufacturers pages which talk about this, but I've never seen one in the flesh to my knowledge.
Okay, um, 1984, Clinton Roy with a spam about LinuxConf.edu. I don't spam. It's spam in so much
that it's a love letter to LinuxConf.edu and it really, I mean, okay, what's, what's not to
love about a conference? Let's put on the middle of the summer, in a venue that's guaranteed to have
good diving and, you know, sand surf and whatever. While we're in the middle of winter, they're in the
middle of Australia and Linus is going to be there. What's not to love? What, um, now he did a,
he did a very good rundown of the show background and actually quite nice to hear because you don't
hear that much about, uh, LinuxConf that they, I think, uh, lost them, ticks the, uh, the, uh,
the window of the sales on, on the northern hemisphere at least and kind of tends to go around at the
same time. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It sounded, sounded great. The fact that you could embed it in a,
in a holiday, sounded like a great, uh, great piece of conference design. And don't the guys on
the system. Are you talk about it? Did they not go to, yeah, they're going this year, I think it's
down the road. Yeah, it's in Jolong or somewhere like that. I think it's not this year. I seem to
dig. Have you died, Dave? Sorry, I just, I just had a cat launch yourself at me. So I was just trying
to push this, it's always cats, it's cats. I wanted my kids to take this cat away. No, I don't. Anyway,
sorry about that. I was wondering if he, um, because we have not as yet managed to catch an interview
with Linus for HGR is on my list of stuff that we need to do. So folks, uh, we know that
he appears there. Uh, interview would be absolutely awesome, because we have, uh,
RMS a few times. Uh, we've been interviewed with RMS. We've got several of those conferences,
and we've had a, uh, you know, a lot of, uh, we've had, um, cathedral on the bizarre.
Or as Raymond. Uh, Eric Raymond. Yeah. Talk on with him. And we've had, um, doc.
Oh, doc. So is that me?
I'm going to have to have a look back. But I think there's quite a few people over the years,
so I'd like to get Linus on. Absolutely. Yeah, you trade the interest.
Okay. Next day, fixing bug 1092 571. Can't mount, drive with SIFS, but can with KIO slave SMB.
And this was one by me. And, uh, yeah. This, this personifies every bug report ever,
that I have done. You know, you have a bug, and nobody answers this, and if you get shot,
automatically end of life, and you reopen it, and nothing, it doesn't get answered. Or the other
ones are, you have a bug, and 15,000 people have reported, and it gets fixed. So there's never a
bug report that I've done where I felt like I've actually achieved something by, by this. And
so probably more people that happen have this bug. So that's one. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
That's, I've had similar experiences. And then, um, the other, I actually, I guess it's,
a lot of people basically don't use, uh, don't use Linux in the work environment. I guess
is the point that's here. So if you can use Linux in the work environment, you're probably using
the Linux servers as well. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I'm, I'm not really in a position to say.
I know that my work did use Linux servers quite a lot, because there was a point at which they were
strongly recommended by Oracle, which helped to support our case that we wanted to Linux,
Linux rather than Windows servers. But now I have no idea what people are doing. Yeah. I,
I can go on, I could go on about that and look at the promise to do any more shows, because I've
called over that too many times, but, but this also personifies to me what Vostem is, you know,
you've got a, you get a problem, you ask somebody who knows about it and they're able to tell you
exactly what I want. Yeah. Jeremy Allison is quite an impressive guy, actually, isn't he?
Yeah. He's obviously absolutely got his finger on the pulse there and was able to come up with
an answer straight away. Fantastic. Yeah. Cool. And Frank said to made, made the comment that
this made me smile. It's, it's a good comment, because I think a few other people would agree with
that. Yeah. Good. Well, why not? Hey, you might have, does those, those three problems I had over,
over Vostem, they've done a big bug in me all year. I was thinking, oh, you know, I really
maybe should ask them when I see them in Vostem and they just have a, the top reality, yeah,
it's six months ago and just because you're not rolling it, using a latest release, yeah, yeah,
yeah. Yeah, that's the way it is the way of it. Anyway, learning said, introduction to said,
a series dedicated to me, in particular, and only me, all the rest of you are benefiting from me
bugging Dave down through the years. Excellent show, Dave. Thank you very much. Keep them coming.
Yep. Well, there's another one in the, in the pipeline and one more being being engineered or
hammered with the big camera at the moment. So yeah, I'm enjoying them actually. They're fun to do.
I hope they're, they're being helpful to, to a lot of people. Yes, they're making a lot of sense,
because I've done a lot of copying and pasting of said commands over the years and had no real clue
about why they were working, or how they were working, or I've had to go to Pearl to do stuff
that you say that said can do, you know. Yeah, I know. You probably wouldn't particularly think
that that was a bad thing, but it would be nice if you're already in said, to be able to do it in
said. Yeah, said said can be pretty lightweight in terms of what, what you have to write to get,
get an effect. So it's good to have said scripts around, and you know, maybe keep a library of
odds and ends around that you, you can refer back to or something of that sort, one liners and so on
and so forth. Yes, it's amazing and powerful, but I have used it for many, many, many years,
but never got beyond maybe episode two of this series in terms of my understanding. So this
was the goal, go and find out how these damn things work and tell everybody what you want to find.
So hopefully, hopefully that's, let's get in there. And that is, that is very much what Dan
was saying when he was doing the, and much, much lamented that his life got underway when he was
doing linux and the shell stuff that you really need, do need to get to know the topic very, very well.
Or you're doing Davis reading the man page, don't you? That's all it is.
Yep, yep, it went through my brain a little bit first and a few bits stuck, but otherwise,
yeah, just reading it, that's it. Yeah. Okay, the Pom O'Dorall timer. I'm for a start,
natural journey. Thank you very much for taking up the shells here we go. Added this to
bash scripting and what I really liked about this show was, was, here's the problem and here's
how I tried to start fixing it. I had no idea of this timer technique of, of doing, you know,
breaking up your day into that chunks. I don't know if it worked for me yet. It depends what you're
doing. When I was a student way back, you know, doing a levels and stuff, I came across some advice
that said, slice your day, you're studying time up into 20 minute chunks and then have,
five or 10 minutes break in between and I did that and it helped me enormously to concentrate on
things. So I don't do it now though, because it's never really fitted into my work schedule since,
because there was always some bum knocking at the door one in something or a phone call and stuff.
It doesn't fit in that, that's a lot of lifestyle. I guess if you're calling perhaps, but I
find then that if I'm calling, I go into the zone and then two or three hours can go and just
been productive for the two or three hours. And then, then once I had that chunk of stuff done
on stop and then, you know, probably go to sleep and then wake up in the following morning with the
logic ready for the next day and then it's just a matter of figuring out how to implement the logic
that's in my brain in whatever. Yes, yeah. Oh no, that's how I work too, but yeah,
I think the Pomodoro thing and things like it work well when you're studying,
when you're learning stuff, it fits really, really well then because learning stuff is really hard
to do because, you know, you're trying to force your brain to remember stuff and easily fatigue
as you do it. So, you know, it's good to take those breaks and to force them on yourself.
Yeah, I think my learning techniques such as the walls, I'm amazed actually though,
that learning, teaching people how to learn isn't pulled like in day one and I can still not
understand why typing is not pulled in schools. It's just unbelievable to me, but I can't.
Yeah, I used to summarize stuff and then I would go out on to go for a walk and then talk
and hear myself saying it back. It was the only way to learn six o'clock in the morning,
walking around a graveyard or something. Yeah, yeah, talking to myself. Yeah, I've done
similar things, not so much the graveyard, but yeah, the other thing is you write it down in a
sort of bullet point structure like org mode and things like that do and then I used to condense
them. A lot of us used to condense that down so you ended up with a sort of sheath of file cards
with the entirety all condensed down into bullet points and then you could, you know, you learned
it to the point where you could look at one bullet point and then expand that out into many, many
of them in your head, you know. So, so when you got to an exam and this was an exam learning
technique, you would get to the exam and you'd say, okay, well, if I were just right down my 20
bullet points very quickly on the back of this bit of paper, then, you know, when I need it, my
yeah, and then it was all bang and all of that stuff would come back. It was a way of getting
your memory to trigger and stuff like that. So, yeah, interesting. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
And so it's on the official paper. It's official. So, um, so, I'm just comment, uh,
thanks sirs, thanks for the tip about ePlay to trigger an all the bullet alert. ePlay is actually
quite cool. Yeah, yeah, I didn't, I don't use iPlay, I've used Play in that in that case. I don't
know what's what's better than than the other. We've one's better than the other. I wondered if
the still work now in this day and age of poltodium. Probably still, yeah. Yeah, I have alerts
firing off when, when people send in shows to hvr, I get a little noise popping up and they're
like coming on and stuff like that. It's great. No, I found, I found a lovely little
noise. Damn man, such, uh, UTC. So, uh, remember, or not UTC, uh, British summertime now. So,
remember to in those shows, a four o'clock in the morning. There's, um, there's some really
nice, uh, light displays and stuff you can get in the bathroom. Some of these, uh, electronics
vendors. There's one which is like, uh, a barba's pole type of thing with, with, with rings of LEDs
on it. Yeah. So, so, so you can have alerts coming on and flashing away.
Anyway, let's move on and we never get the show finished. 1988 Linux from scratch. My experience
installing Linux from source. Brian and Ohio, who's accent is awesome. And, um, the, uh, yeah,
it's something everybody should do. I, I do this. And, uh, it is a very good learning experience.
I don't know if I've run my entire distro from it. It seems a lot of work to keep open security
patches and stuff. But, uh, yeah, it is definitely worth doing and something I've been thinking
about perhaps doing again, but maybe not. Yeah, I know I've, I, when I listen to things like this,
and particularly this one, I come away thinking, wow, I should really do that. I really should.
Um, but, you know, I know quite why I don't have done so yet. Yeah, it's because it's scary, but
it's, all the commands are there. Even you could install a system, even if all you need to do
is to be able to follow a recipe. All the commands are there. You don't need to be able to understand
it. You don't need to do anything. You just follow the recipe. If you've got no laptop,
you can configure it and run it. And there's an amazing sense of achievement. And his tip about,
um, console mouse is absolutely excellent. I'd even forgotten that that was possible. Yeah,
yeah, that was good. That was good. There's some, some really good hints and tips there.
I began us had a comment in their great topic. Thanks. Never gotten around to messing with Linux
from scratch. So I both wondered what it was like. Thanks for the episode. I also think it's
pretty funny that we ended up with two shows right next to each other about building Linux
installations from hand. The first title contained the word scratch and the second thing
obtaining the word it. I'm easily immune. It's my best. Yes, yes, very good. Which brings us to
WDTV makes me itch a step-by-step description of turning a normal computer into a simple Linux
media appliance. And I think he was building those terminal things that you see at lifts,
given company notices and the like. Yeah, very interesting, very interesting thing to do. It's
like a sort of kiosk, wasn't it, that it was produced as an end result. Very, very cool. Very
cool. I just was thinking doing it because, you know, I got the Raspberry Pi bias again, but I
was probably just, because I had one of these HP things and the amount of power that they draw,
I was thinking, you know, most of the TVs now, um, for building that sort of system, you just
put a Raspberry Pi on it, power it from the USB from the, from the TV screen. And then, you know,
it turns on, gets a network and pulls it down the stuff. But I guess if you've already got this
stuff in-house, you know, it's probably not HDMI or it's probably got its own, you know, um,
installation. So you've already got this case in all your places. So what he's done is pretty cool.
Yeah, yeah. And, and, and then the work environment is probably different criteria that would make
you make that choice anyway. The domestic thing as opposed to domestic. I know a lot of people use
them as replace for this. If you, uh, even a work, as I go around, I see a lot of like the
lockers in the gyms are powered by Raspberry Pi, so it's a good thing to do.
Wow, that's, that's so cool. Yeah. You use the kit that you have, I guess. Yeah, yeah,
and that's fair enough. We, um, we did, uh, did something like this, uh, when at work in the BBC
micro days, we had a, had a display out in the corridor that would, that would give us,
it was a state is displaying what's, uh, what server was up and down, that sort of stuff driven
from a BBC micro. That, that goes a long time back. Comments, we had, uh, the easy,
apps brilliant show, uh, chosen a minimal Debian install, but your solution takes a lot less
space. You convince me that art makes a more sense for this type of setup. I will propose the
solution the first chance, I guess. Please make more. Yes, Jonathan, sorry, go on. Okay,
I'm just going to take the next one. That's all just to give you a rest. So, um, John,
John's help says, nice kiosk idea, very entertaining. Love the production value, especially the
sweet bot coming to get you. This is something I may actually try at some point because we could use
a kiosk type thing running videos when we go out, recruiting. And he replies back, it comes
replies back, thanks, all this the first time I've tried to do a tutorial sort of episode,
sounds like it did okay. Anyone have another opinion whether it is a bit too low level or not
low level enough, I would say yes and yes, it's too low level and not low level enough because
we have both types of people just record your shows, don't worry about the audience.
People will tell you how much and that's enough to say that if it's too detailed now,
it might be low level for somebody in six years when they come back and go, I remember dealing
with that show, where was this? Oh yeah, I'll go back and get it there. So, don't be worried about
the level pitches, wherever you're comfortable pitches. Yep, it was great. I enjoyed it very much.
I thought I thought that I'm not going to do that, but if I ever want to, it will be the place I'll
go and look. It was interesting there, particularly the trying to keep the size small, but I would,
I don't know if I would have gone, you know, everybody has their own approaches of how they would have
gone. And anybody who has an idea on how to do that, make smaller Linux distributions
should in fact record a show, which is why I'm not saying anything more, no more, I promise
not shows as it is. Okay, the following day we had the actual script for the Pomodoro
timer, and Dave, did you get a look into the script itself? I did look at it, yes, not for a huge
lot of time, I have to say, but yeah, it looked interesting. I'm quite tempted to have a further
poke around with it, maybe give it a try, but I haven't gotten that far with it, yeah, I have to say.
I always like the, you know, you look into somebody else's scripts and you go, okay, what's
you doing there? And she gets the case, maybe. And I, okay, I see there. Oh, I wouldn't know
that. Why is that way? And I'm always very interested in the, he's converting seconds to
ours thing. I'm always very interested in that, because he's using that. So again, not promising
a show, keeping my mouth shut about Dave commands in Linux. Yes, but you're right, looking at
somebody else's script is always a good thing to do, because you can almost guarantee to be
able to learn something from it. Yeah, exactly. And it's never a negative thing, it's like,
okay, he did it that way, that's absolutely fine. But, you know, you get into your comfortable
shoes, habits, you know, so you do stuff that way, but always there's something you go,
oh, that's actually pretty cool. Indeed, yeah, that's absolutely right. So keep them coming,
keep them coming. And of course, if you have your own script that you have hacked together,
especially five minute ones that you're still using, and that you tweet and twiddle,
then you never really considered there to be of any use to anybody. So in the show,
tell us your thought process, what happened, why you changed this, you know, you went back and you
maybe put in a niffs, you know, 15-year statements, changed it with a K statement or something,
tell us about that. That's always nice, even if you're not telling any, I mean, you
necessarily new piece of information that we have never been covered, it's always nice to hear.
Okay, the following day we had, what are any comments on that actually?
No, they weren't there. I did want to comment, but I don't actually comment on the comments,
because I need to save my comments to comment to you. Just, yeah, I don't know if that makes sense.
Well, yeah, I tend to try and comment if I can, but I've been too busy just lately, so I wasn't
able to do it this time. Okay, yes, just in general, folks, there's nothing that makes a
podcaster's day more than seeing a comment or a thankful email comment to even if it's like your
episode. What did you agree, Dave? Absolutely. It tends to be why we do this sort of thing,
many of us, I think. Yeah, I wouldn't say it's why I'm doing it, but it's very nice. Yeah,
it's four years doing this thing before anybody, but before I did anything worth
somebody emailing me about what you have to find. It is really, really nice when a little
recognition comes in this old school. Okay, the following day we had, I don't know if it was the
following day, I should actually put Monday Tuesday things in there, but again, give myself
more work, something I'm promised not to do, be easy, adventures and stalling links on the ASUS
eBook X205A, and this was a cheap laptop running Windows 10, I think, if I'm not 100 percent
mistaken. Yes, I think so, yeah, it's not a machine I know, although ASUS eBook sounds a bit like
the EEEPC, I don't know much about it, to be honest. By the way, my father-in-law has just given me
a original EEEPC, and I'm open to suggestions on what to do with it, my daughter would like it,
but what do you think I should do with the EEEPC, original version? So yes, it's a small
affordable 1611.6-inch Windows 8.1 notebook that weighs less than 1 kilo as a compact space-saving
design. The eBook eBook X205 allows you to surf the net for up to 12 hours full charge. Windows 8 with
Bing gives you the full blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So there you are, that's what it
does. And wow, you have to go through a little bit of, well, a little bit to guess when to get
Linux installed. You have 32-bit grub with a 64-bit operating system, and then trying to get
UEFI installed. I don't know why people are disabling secure boot because the operations,
there are several mainstream Linux distros that support booting with UEFI, so I don't
understand that anymore. No, I'm not attached with this to be honest because
when I built the machine I'm currently using it comes with the EFI, and I just switched it off
because I don't think there was any other choice at the time, but I've lost tracks since then.
Yeah, the Fedora runs out of the box. You want to run out of the box. OpenCZ runs out of the box.
Most of the, I don't know if Debian does, but I've read places where you can get it to boot
UEFI. It just seems like a thing that you would do. Okay, anyway, that's a thing.
So first boot needs to get the Wi-Fi working. You need to fix the boot loader. Then you need to
get a complex between SD-HCPI and B-R-C-M-F-A-MAC.
Wow, and the microSD charger. Now, a lot of this could be down to the machine being so new
that nobody has it and you have these TV issues that in six months time it'll work out of the box
with the next gesture. Yeah, yeah, that's still still a case, isn't it? Yeah. By my point,
I'm making a full lots, full of tropical point now that I've been buying a machine, it'll be
a Linux machine just so that it's a Linux machine. Yes, well, of course, I have a laptop that
that came as a Linux machine, but we won't go back. We won't go to that. Yeah, problem with the problem,
yeah. How many tickets did you have to buy for that, Dave? It cost me five British fans,
I'll have you know, so yeah, yeah, I draw a veil, I'll draw a veil over that one.
You definitely all saw the show for that one, so did you? Well, I've actually drafted something
out, but it seemed just this guy going on about how he got a laptop and stuff. I mean,
do people care about that sort of thing? Yes. Okay, well, a lot of people definitely care about that.
I will continue it again. I could have purchased that ticket because we would be together,
and I don't have a crew laptop, which of course I would have given to the HVR community in
a raffle to save money for the poor, the accessible computer foundation. No, I lost myself,
I could take it over and stop them. Oh, God, I just got to kill myself now, I think.
No, don't do that, Dave. Okay. Okay. How I handle my podcast subscriptions and listening 1992
with Puggett, Renapard, Pugletag, Toog, Upcom, Splat, and Rockbox, and ListenLive.email,
what's the other mic? I am the great topic, this is Bjorn again, great topic, fun to hear,
how others do with thanks for sharing. I never ceased to be amazed at the different ways people
have for getting podcasts. Yeah, I love this one. This is really, really good, a very, very
interesting, partly because I do, you know, have hacked my own thing, which I'm not happy with,
and I listen, I'm always listening for other people's ways of doing it. It's like the Bash scripting
thing we're talking about earlier. You think, wow, that's a great idea. I'll try that. In fact,
I did download Puggett and tried running it a few times, and it hits against the same problems
that my hacked Bash Potter does. People are doing weird, weird, weird things with podcast feeds now
for some reason. I lifted it. It's so easy to fix this thing. It's a nice protocol, but
people are doing things like putting multiple enclosures in one item, they're doing also
it's of non-standard illegal things, which breaks everything all over the blooming place.
Yeah, the problem is it's so bigy written that it's an argument I heard about that is,
yeah, but it doesn't say you can't do that. Yeah, I know, I know. I had a bit of a,
I had a bit of an argument with one of the podcast channels that did this. What they're doing is
all of their media is called exactly the same. That's all you're in use to that is the stupidest
effing thing out. Oh, Lordy. I think what they're doing is they're farming out their feeds to
some external company who's decided that's the way to do it. So to get the actual name of the
file, you have to drill down through umpteen levels to see what the terminal file is going to be,
and then how do you manage things like knowing whether you've downloaded it before if you have
to do that? It's a pain. It's an idea there. If the ID changes, then you're supposed to download
the file again regardless of what it's called. Most people just use the enclosure tag, but you're
not actually supposed to use that. You're supposed to use the thing. And yes, Dave, I know what you're
going to say. I know. You're just going to say, can you should do that show about RSS feeds,
which I will do just as soon as I've done the show about XML feeds, Dave, which I will do just
as soon as I've done the show about Hitchie Mail, Dave. Oh, I can hardly wait. Wow. I can hate this
because now that's three shows right there, Dave. But I promise. Absolutely. What year is it now?
And this is why I don't get people saying, oh, I don't know what to talk about. All I have to do
is open my mouth and then a promise of a show comes out. Anyway, but back to the show, these are
actually quite good and I'm interested in looking at some of them. Yeah. I'm not entirely happy with
my way of downloading shows of the minute. Yeah, no, exactly the same here. The podget looks
really, really nice. It's really well put together. And it looks as if there's a community where
people are saying, hang on, it doesn't work with this feed. And then he's putting, you know,
exceptions in, if it's this feed, then do this because that's the way the world is. And is it
making you angry? But it's really active. It looks like. Yeah, I'm going to, uh,
going to have a look at that. Maybe I will see how we go. Okay. Can your window manager do this?
Not your Jordy was on a roll this month, on a roll. We like that. And show off my rap poison
configuration. I was listening to this in the gale, putting back up my fence, which fell down. And, uh,
yeah, I was listening to this much intrigued. Again, not something, I don't think rap poison is
something that something that I would like to have, but I don't think I have the time to have it,
if you don't want to meet me. Yeah, I know what you mean. It's, uh, it looks really interesting,
but there's a fair bit of investment to get it just the way you want and, uh, and so on.
I feel the name is terrible. Absolutely terrible.
Yeah, no, no. Somebody's idea of a joke. Sometimes I think they, uh,
free and open source community, starting with, uh, Richard Stallman should stop being funny,
and pick names that don't involve having to explain something for five, five minutes before
you can get on to the actual important work that you're trying to do. Yeah, I wouldn't argue with that.
Yes. Okay. Anyways, but again, if you're doing your, uh, if you are thinking of giving rap poison
to go, somebody else, um, record us a show and see how, uh, how we'll compare to you if a, if
if somebody has taken up the challenge and decided to do a show, uh, send us in one to see how you
got on. Love to hear it. I think that rap poison is something I would need about four or five
shows of people raving about before I go, mm, okay, I'll give it a go. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I,
I, um, I was tempted by the first mention of it and the second mention I was thinking, uh,
I don't, I'm not sure I've got enough time really, but, uh, I need, need convincing before I,
but if I make that leap, I think. Yep. Exactly. Exactly. Now, the following day, we had a,
uh, junk up with a serpentine belt replacement. Listen, as I replaced my certain
time belt idler pulley and belt tensioner in my truck. And I have no idea what a serpentine belt is.
But thankfully, he put a link in his show notes. I think we call it the timing belt, don't we?
I would imagine that's what it is. Yeah. Yeah. I don't actually know. I mean,
is serpentine because it goes all around the house is in that particular engine it seems.
They had a picture from, uh, from Wikipedia that he has shows it's, uh, it's, uh, sort of like what
the timer belt looks like at the front of an engine. Yeah, yeah. Well, they actually see all
sort of timing belt. Okay. I didn't, I didn't spot that. No, I didn't see that. I looked at the
video to see what the actual thing was, um, the, the video they put up there was quite interesting
showing the, the process. Um, but, uh, yeah, it, it couldn't be anything else really, could it?
They're up probably not, probably not. So what do you think of the episode, Dave? Oh,
sorry, yes. I was just, just cogitating there. Sorry. Um, so it's, yeah, I, I thought it was great
actually. Um, John mentioned he was going to do that and said it's going to be quite long. Uh,
and I thought, well, and when I, as it was coming up, I was thinking, God, it's going to be so long,
I'm going to be really bored. Sorry, John, but no, I wasn't there. Actually, I found it quite fascinating.
There's something strange about listening to people doing stuff and telling you what they're,
what they're doing that, that, that just, I just find it interesting and you feel like you,
you're sort of there at their shoulder listening to them talking about it. Yeah. Exactly. Uh, I think
John could have done with doing a little less of, I'm doing, I'm pointing to this and this thing
is coming out telling us what this is was definitely help from time to time. But it, what didn't help
either was the fact that I was going through exactly the same thing only with my friends as opposed
to that where you, you, you go, you get the thing. It's the wrong thing. You have to bring back that
thing and then how many Saturdays have you lost with that, you know, you're going, you go to the shop,
you get the thing that you need, you start, you bring it, you figure it out that it's the wrong one,
you go back to give you the other thing, you come back, you put it together and then you're missing
a 50 cent clip or something and you go back, the shop is shut, there's nowhere else to go. It's
Sunday, it's Saturday evening, you have to wait till Monday morning, you go down to the Monday morning
down to the shop, Dave. And you know what happens on Monday morning at the shops in the Netherlands?
They're shut, Dave, because it's, they've worked Saturday, so they get a half day on Monday morning,
so you have to wait until one o'clock before you're shipping tap or whatever is fixed.
It doesn't, it doesn't happen in Scotland very much. They tend to be open to all gloomy
hours and here, but yeah, yeah, I have experienced that. It's not so bad anymore. They've opened the,
you know, the big DIY warehouses, so they're open even on a Sunday now, so but, but this was my life
like you, you go fix something and you are almost finished, but you can't finish because it's
settled even by five minutes past five and then that 50 cents thing that you need is gone.
Did you watch the video, by the way? I did, yeah, yeah. It's, it's quite interesting. It's,
it's a very, you wonder why engines have put together in that sort of way, as far as
is a good answer to that, because you want to get it as much as possible in that space, but
it's, you had to fiddle around the back of the fan and it was, yeah, no, I felt as pain as
you was going through that. Yes, it's, at least it's a bit more open and some of the more modern
car, car engines, you know, you can get some, some movement around the, the engine compartment.
Modern, modern cars like, like my diesel, for example, you can hardly get in there at all,
you know, you need to, you need a degree in engineering to do it. Yep.
Well, Brian says two thoughts while still listening. First thought, the Star Drive is called
Torx and is press fitted into the three quarter drive socket. Second and most important is
the extraction of the plastic plug. When you get to the point of inserting the screw into the
toilet hole, just keep going with the screw. It will bottom out and extract the plug on its own.
Seems like Brian knows a thing or two about this. Jonathan Colt replies, genius,
well, what a genius suggestion. It didn't confirm the car to me to keep drilling the screw.
That will work the same way. Crank arm extraction tool on my bike will definitely do that the next
time. I'm in such a predicament. And thanks for correcting me on Torx head. I can never
remember that. It's not like I've used him before. Ha ha. Never used him before. Yes. Yes. One of the
things I bought many, many years ago is a set of all these bizarre screw, you know, screwdriver
heads. And my son is right here in front of me holding it in my hands. One of the things my son
asked for for his Christmas was the I fix it set of, you know, universal apple type screw heads
that you're not allowed to open this. But, you know, but I fix it, say, well, so do you. We're going to
give you screwdriver bits to do it with that stuff. Absolutely. Love it. Yeah. Absolutely. That's the way
it should be. We're not going to be stopped by that sort of nonsense. Yes. No, no, I really think
it's cool to have a mean somebody has to open it up. Why not us? Yeah, yeah, absolutely. So I think
it came with all manner of spudgers and other strange tools for leaving backs often. And that
total thing. I have had many occasions where I've been taking stuff apart and just go to the kids
and go, ah, it's a funny shape screw. The studies call the rescue and we go out and get this thing
and come back. They don't want you to open them this up, but you are opening your up. All right,
my poor children live a very, very funny life. Anyway, comes James compilation of liberal
licensed music that called enjoy listening to and can enjoy listening to because it keeps up the
noise of mere mortals coming to project managers coming to distract me from my work. This is
great show. I like, I like the idea of doing this. It's not the first time anybody's done this,
I know, but I just like his, his list, his playlist here. It's about 90% of this I really enjoyed.
I don't think I would have picked any of them myself if I was doing this, but
always nice to hear other people's choices of music. Yeah, and now it says there's a few there
that I would like to go and listen to again, actually. Yeah, obviously, but he's done another show
before on this and it's in our old songs considered. Resurrected from the past. Very good.
Keep on coming, Cove. And we had Nacho with the xdo2 magic overview and a few possibilities with
the xdo2. This was an interesting one I happened, I happened to come across this two over four,
although I seem to remember it existing, but not having an actual use for it.
I think John Culpch uses it with some of his workflow processes.
That's right, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's where we heard about it before.
The website is given a 5.2.2 or by the way, and has been for, has been for some time.
Yes, right. And the thing I didn't know was the name and searching file thing,
the blog post, which is kind of interesting if you read it.
Yeah, I want you to just call up with this show, actually, and listening to it today.
I haven't followed that one up, but it's an interesting idea. I'm not sure I would want to do it
myself, but his point about there being no creation date on a unique file is a good one,
though, because it's a thing I've often wondered about. I could not understand why that is,
there's like last modified date, and there's some other last saved date or something,
several dates, not a creation date. It is a bug that should be picked.
Yeah, I think it's a design decision of some sort, but it's an odd one.
Yeah, yeah. If you use the stat command, you see there's, well, at least on my version of Linux,
you see a thing that says birth date, but there's no value there. I'm not sure what that is.
It's file system dependent, obviously, that sort of stuff.
Yes, exactly. But I also don't think I'd go to that trouble. I would put my files in folders,
and then the folders make sense, and then after that, you know where you are.
Yeah, that's what I've always done, yeah.
Yeah. Okay, the following day we had introduction to set part three, looking more into
the second man's than just the S. This one I'm still going through, Dave. I must confess,
because the amount of time I have to, well, with your shows, particularly these ones,
I need to listen to them and read them along, to be honest.
Yeah, it's hard for me to judge because, you know, I wrote the damn thing. So when I'm
listening to, I do listen to them because I want to critique them myself and think,
oh, yeah, I visualise that totally. Oh, hang on, you wrote the bloody thing.
So it's not too surprising, but yeah, it's hopefully...
It's not that I don't think I could visualise it. It's easier. You've written the show notes.
I know you've written the show notes because I've posted them, so I want to follow along
because I can see that it's just easier to see once you're there. Why not? Why not?
That's why. That's exactly the purpose of it.
And it's, yeah, I usually read them on the train, except this week it's been a bit
effective because I've been out of the country for a while and my daughter's birthday coming up.
So things were, I didn't have my normal one and a half hour commute in the morning and then
another one and a half hour in the evening to do my podcast listening and stuff. So I'm a little
bit behind. Anyways, my grey says knockout episode, well done, Dave. This is knockout episode.
Contains a lot of the more obscure said stuff and really useful and hard find an example of online.
I personally like you reading out the command line examples as I make a mental note of what the
strings to search for in your show notes and before back later. I've used set for years,
but this is an inexhaustible subject looking forward to your podcast series,
Nudge, Nudge, you're a big never having really got my head round off.
As a my, Dave, I'm looking very much forward to that.
Well, I started thinking about you, boy, that's a big subject.
But you're a big man, Dave. You're keeping them all taken it on.
Yeah, well, we'll see. We'll see.
No, actually, we really do need a donor reader. We do need a knock series, Dave. So when you
have finished said, but I do realize you're not worth it at all. So I give you a break.
Yes, you've done the settlement. Okay, you reply.
Shall I, shall I read my, uh, my comment? I said, careful what you wish for.
Thanks, Mike. You're very kind. I took you said for many years and always ignored much of the
weird wonderful stuff. It's cable law and made do with the S command and a few others like D in
Q as well as line addressing. In doing this series, I'm at last learning how to do some more
sophisticated things with said. So it's fun to do. Episode four is finished and waiting to be
posted. And episode five, the really deep, weird stuff is in production. I'm trying to explain
some of the examples in the GNU said manual in five, but I'll have to understand them myself first.
Yes, I'd quite like to do a series on org and will if I can. So I'm committed down.
Yes, you're, it's easy to say you're doing stuff. It's a lot harder to actually do the stuff.
What you've done said, you have to do awk. Yeah, there's no way around.
I can't get up on me. Hi, okay, okay. Hello, guys. What's happening over there?
Uh, it's snowing actually. Yeah, seriously, April.
I, you know, we don't kid about that stuff. Michigan is what it is.
What have you been up to? Oh, quite a few things. I haven't even looked at the Q,
so I have no idea where we are. I got Pengwakan coming up the end of this month.
Once that's over with, I think I can breathe a little bit easier.
You're organizing that? I'm sorry. What did you say? Are you organizing that?
I'm in charge of the tech track. Okay, give us a spiel call. We've got five minutes.
Okay. Well, we've got a lot of interesting stuff. We have a fellow named Michael's
Lucas, who is an author, writes a lot of stuff on BSD and security and things like that.
And he's going to be doing some presentations. Tony and Tom from the Sunday Morning Linux review
are each doing presentations for us. I've got people, a couple of people from Red Hat,
Tom Calloway and Ruth Cele that are going to come and participate in a number of panels for us.
Tom is going to give us an update on Fedora, for instance, which he's involved in.
One of our guests of honor is a lady named Deb Nicholson who works for the Open Invention Network
and does a lot of work on patents and mostly why patents are evil, of course, but
so it's going to be exciting to have her here. And we've got some panels on AI,
how to build your own home router. Of course, you could just go to the store and buy one,
but these days people get raspberry pies and build things, so we thought let's do something about
that. And we're going to have some key signing in crypto, a lot of security stuff.
So there's a lot of good stuff going on. I think I've got about 75 hours worth of tech
programming for the weekend. Oh, pretty cool. And you say this tech, what else is there?
Well, Pangrakhan is kind of a hybrid of tech, mostly open source and open source related.
So I have to be careful about that because one of my speakers is from Microsoft,
but she talks about how Microsoft works with open source, so that's pretty good actually.
And it's also a science fiction convention.
Yes.
So you've got all of the cost play and authors and all of the stuff associated with that.
So it's a lot of fun. It's weird people, my people.
Yep. Well, cool. Give us some of those. I'm sure you'll be recording into the idea, the idea.
Actually, I'm sure you'll be far too busy doing stuff that you're recording into.
Yeah. Well, I managed to get through all of the pretty much all of the issues that we're
slowing me down before. So I'm getting ready to start writing and recording more stuff.
I still, I kind of left my Libra office in press hanging there with one more show
plan that I didn't get around to doing. And I want to get in the draw.
So I want to wrap that up and then maybe do some security stuff. You know, we'll see.
Excellent. How's the deal going?
Oh, the job is great. I am so happy there.
I started as a contractor a little over a year ago.
And then in November, they decided they were going to bring me on as a direct employee
with the benefits and all of that good stuff. And it's a great place to work.
Excellent. Excellent. Yeah. I'm real happy about all of that. And my wife is pretty happy
about all of that too. Yeah. That helps too. We're just running down through the shows. We're at
1998, home brewing, a bit about making your own beer. And this is a merge, a merge shade and talks
about the Mr. Beer brand and kit. And this is something that I've been very tempted to get involved
in. So I, yes, I'm restraining myself. I must say. It's, I have to say something on my
to-do list that I've not got round to doing. But yes, I'd like more to hear more about this to
give me incentive. But while I'm speaking about this show, I really enjoyed the bit about
accents and the sample of his grandfather's voice that he did at the beginning. That was fantastic.
We do love accents over here. So don't be afraid of, I think somebody else this month
was concerned about doing a show themselves and then did it in their own voice,
which was completely perfectly understandable. Please don't be afraid of sending in shows with
whatever funny accents you think you have. I mean, listen to me for Fexy. But yeah, it's,
the more you hear accents from other people around the world, the more your brain adjusts to that
and makes you more open to hearing other accents. It's always cool. So keep on coming, keep on coming,
Frank had a comment on this. Do you want to read it out or shall I?
So yes, Frank was really commenting on the on the whole accent thing. He says,
even though it was not the focus of your podcast, I found a bit about Eastern Kentucky accents,
particularly interesting. Many persons fail to appreciate the rich variety of speech patterns
that phrase southern accent embraces. I'm from Eastern Virginia. My mother was from the hills of
far north western south Carolina and though both accents were clearly southern, they were quite
different. I remember once dropping down from the Blue Ridge Parkway somewhere in far south
western north Carolina to head south to Atlanta and being almost unable to understand what the
clock at the gas station was saying. It was unlike any other area that I've heard and I've traveled
extensively in the south. It was as far from my Eastern Virginia accent as a Scottish brogue.
Enjoyed the podcast too, even though I've no interest in brewing my own beer. My preferred
tip-all speaks gallic. It gave me a better. There's many varieties though, isn't it? It gave me a
better understanding of the discussions from of home brewing that one is so likely to encounter
these days. Afterthought, my trick for spotting a fake southern accent is using y'all as a
singular pronoun. Everyone knows y'all is plural. I'm going to contradict you on that one. Y'all is
singular. All y'all is plural. I can't comment. You know more than three shows are serious folks?
You know a side note is that I have heard that language scholars say that the accent you hear
in at the Appalachian region is actually the closest analog we have to what was spoken in
Elizabethan England. That's interesting actually. The host in this particular show was commenting that
a lot of the accent origins were Scottish and Irish, excuse me, with possibly a German
element as well, I think he said. So yeah, wow. Somebody's PhD there somewhere I think.
I think the argument about that is that there were a lot of Scotch Irish people that settled that
area and it's just isolation. They spent several centuries just by themselves and not interacting
with everyone else. Whereas in England, in particular, everything evolves tremendously. Shakespeare
would probably have tremendous trouble understanding received pronunciation or whatever it is the BBC does.
I can assure you I have immense trouble understanding Mr. Shakespeare. Yeah and some of the others
around that chooser and stuff like that. There's loads of students sitting there exams now in Ireland
going, yes, I also have big problems understanding Mr. Shakespeare. Okay, how long day,
Dave, you're going to have to do the review. Right, it's definitely on my list actually. It's the
Adur Jack Audio and Per Sonos interface to record in an entire band practice. And at every single time
like in the open source musician podcast, they all seem to be using Adur and Audur or Audur or
Audur. I can't say that sounds wrong. Doesn't sound like the way they pronounce it on my head when
they hear it. And they seem to jack instead of the Pulse Audio. So yeah, Jack goes with Pulse Audio.
Doesn't it? Did I not pick that up? But it's a sort of control interface on top of Pulse.
This was what I understood. But he obviously knows his way around this. He's obviously experiencing
the ways of sound engineering, I thought. And as for a first show, I thought it was great. It's
really good. Nice sound. Good, good speaking voice. It's really well put together, I thought.
But fascinating. That means I'm going to have to lower the bloody bar again.
Well, I'm just telling it as it is. But as we say, feedback is in this show is important.
But yeah, it was he was talking about how he's using a Linux system to record his band.
Just largely for the sharing the result with the band so that they can improve their skills.
Is he on the bar at all? Yes, he's a singer. Is that sort of second level singer, I guess you'd call it.
Maybe that's not the way he put it, but that's more or less how I took it anyway.
So yeah, it's their rock band. So they've got a whole raft of microphones.
But they're feeling everything through a sound card into his Dell machine running Linux.
As I understood this, I'm not an expert on this. My son would understand it better because that's
what he's doing at university. But the use of jack sounded quite interesting as a way of managing
it or all these, I think, 16 inputs, he said to this machine. So pretty damned impressive, I
thought. Cool. Looking forward to you. I will be listening to that Monday when I get playing
on P3 Bear. Sorry, og player back. I have to slap myself for that. Okay, that was it for this month,
I think. There was a comment. Yes, John. There was a comment. Shall I do it? It was from John
Culp. John Culp says more on our door. Welcome and thanks for a great episode. Glad you found
us. Hope you'll make good on what you said about recording lots of episodes for HPR. It would
be timely since I've had to cut way back. Anything about audio recording, editing and post
production will be enthusiastically received. Absolutely. Second bat, absolutely. The cat got there
again. Sorry, did I take my finger off the button too soon there? Sorry. So yes, I agree with
your comment anyway. Okay, so comments that were not included in this month's show, let me have
a look. Do we have mailless? No comments first. So we had, I always find it difficult to follow
this one through, to be honest with you. Well, since we've been doing comments with the
show, should we just finish them off? Yeah, there were some comments to 1727, which was Frank
Bell talking about Matt, which is, Leslie Satinstein said it was a nice podcast and he
appreciates the references and intents to follow up with Mut and Frank came back saying good luck
with Mut and thanks for listening. And then we had an episode, a comment on the episode by
experiencing the Miguel T02 Part 2, which was shadowy figures audio presentation and the comment
was, I just got run to listen to Part 2 of this and having missed Part 1 a lot of the
images we went back to the first part of a refreshing break from the usual style of HBRs,
HBR episodes can't wait for Part 3. No, no, no, they can I? And that was still void,
and did you say that? I'm not sure. Yeah, so good. Okay, sorry, I didn't hear you.
And then we had, oops, one second, we had a comment on the HBR audio book club, 1011.5, which was
an interview with David Conn's River. There are also known as Lost in Bronx. Yeah, very much.
And the comment was from David Alwenson, which goals like Firefly. So you probably see Firefly
in everything. That's because it is in everything. Long. He's so right. He's so right.
Yes, I like that coming. That's very good. And on the episode that Merrachade did how I got
into Linux, he thanked 30 for his nice kind words and heads up to IcePak Linux have no idea
they made a comeback. And then we have comment to the goal free Librefly software, the goal and
the path by myself. Does the free software? This was comments about the fact that the audio was
lost. And unfortunately, no, the free software does not have a free software for the foundation,
doesn't have a copy of this. But the presentation itself is a fairly generic presentation that he
has given them more than one occasion. He's actually given us a TEDx edition. So it's very
easy to track it down as well. But again, more of the story Dave, backup, backups and double backups.
Yes, as I said in another context, I had a recorder with me in Brussels and didn't realize
it was going to be recording that night. So I never brought it with me. I'm really sad. I didn't.
And I had two backup devices, but both neither of them had been charged. So that's why that's
me though. Then I edited the show, uploaders and the batteries went to my audio device and my H2.
And it went back to recording episode numbers as file 00, which overwrote the original.
And that overwrote the bits on the actual SG card. So it's gone.
Annoying. Very, very annoying. But yeah, that happens sometimes. I actually lost two other
shells as well. Two other injuries at that, which I'm trying to trace down the people to
interview as well. Damn it. It's a shame. Yeah, it's, but it does happen. There's nothing, you know, it's
yeah, I got eight hours of interviews. I missed some. So there was one more comment that we need to
mention, I guess, which was to my episode first, say, episode, which, um, very good.
Again, Ann said another said resource. He great said resource. He pointed out the book called Unix
Text Processing, which is an a Riley book, which is available free in a, in a PDF form. And it
features very illuminating description of stream editing and said on page 288. It's seek.
So I said to that, thanks very much. And I found the book fascinating never having done more than
dabble with NROF TROF and the like, because that's what it's mainly about. It seems to touch
dated, but interesting. Nevertheless, I'm not sure I'd recommend it for a said beginner, though.
I don't have a book recommendation to offer in return, having taught myself to use said for manual
pages and so forth. And I started using said on a deck backsluster running VMS in the late 1980s.
It'd been port to VMS from Unix and made life much simpler since VMS wasn't that good at doing
this sort of editing. So I don't know what made me say that, but that's certainly this the case.
Well, I happened to see the book. Have you read it in law or just both?
Yes, I downloaded it and had a look at it, but I've not read it in detail, because it's mainly about
using tools like TROF and NROF and those sorts of facilities, which, you know, they're powerful,
but maybe a little dated in today's world of markdown and so forth, or even tech for that matter.
And you can record a show and tell us why that is not so?
Well, yeah, indeed.
You can do it, or gun, a-min, a-min, gun-a-min, gun-a-min, gun-a-min, a-min, a-min.
Okay, I'll stop now. Sorry for buttering people's names. It is a tradition.
I feel honored that you have had your name butchered by me.
Okay, so that was the comments. Shall we do the-
Sure, the email email email email.
Yes, yes, so we had a couple of messages from Hippokennis in his persona as Ivan Privacy,
which is a great persona, I think. And he was just asking some questions about the eSpeak
voice, which he then answered for himself.
Yeah, that's fine. That's what I'm ailing this forward, isn't it?
There's an interesting comment from Christopher Cobvington about libravatar,
which is an alternative open source avatar type system, which is used by
GitHub, did he say, I've forgotten. I haven't got it in front of me.
No, no, no, no. Okay, so, yeah, that was pretty cool.
I have had a look at this. I actually could be surprised I thought
gravatar was free in open source as well, because it is the least associated with wordpress.
So if it isn't, I will definitely have a look at the avatar, see what that gets us.
Yeah, I haven't looked at it myself, but it sounds interesting, doesn't it?
Yeah, I thought it was associated with wordpress, like you thought.
Yeah, probably, now that he mentioned it, I never thought to go and look to see what
the license was, because I thought you could download it was-
No, I did actually, I think it's a GPL license. I know, it could be wrong.
I'll have to go and have another look at that, and it's on the list.
And then we have a whole go of stuff where people,
including Kevin Wischer, offered a lot of help fixing the audio.
And yes, no, there was, it wasn't possible to repair that audio for that show.
Now it's an interesting discussion, and worth looking at some of the strategies that
people use to have a go at it, but-
And then the Digest Dave, when we all know that's enough, right?
People refined to the Digest.
There was also people who helped out with the-
Let me just call out a few of them names there, hold on one second.
With Nigel, Kevin Wischer, Epicanos of course,
Kevin Wischer again, Kevin O'Brien, and himself himself.
And it was actually very interesting all the different approaches.
Yeah, there was stuff to be learned from that, I thought.
Yeah, some good coming out of it.
And then the last one was the community news, of course.
I should go through the list and delete the community news,
invitations probably, just to save some time.
Not at all.
And was there anything else offline that we were aware of?
Oh yeah, there was the change to the mail list.
Reminder once a month, I think you put a stop to that.
Yes, I switched it off this morning, in fact, because I couldn't see why I know if it was on.
I think it'd just been hiding because the anti-spam thing had been
killing it off as it was going out.
Yeah, perhaps.
Maybe, I don't know, I can't think of any other explanation.
Do you want to give an update on what that was?
Well, mailman, the mailing list service that we're using for the HPR list,
has the features of sending out a password reminder to subscribers once a month.
And you can set that at the list level, or individual subscribers can ask for it
by fiddling with their own configuration.
And it was reported today that somebody had received one of these things.
And it contains a plaintext password, which mailman has always done,
because it goes way back into the midst of time.
And that was the way things were done in those days.
And it was always regarded as being a low security password anyway,
because you shouldn't go and use the password to your bank for your mailing list.
Subscriptions and that type of thing.
But it's still not good practice.
We switched it off.
For some reason it had been on the global level.
We switched it off.
And the next release of mailman will not do this anymore.
So hopefully we'll be able to install that before too long.
We need to talk to Josh about that.
Cool, cool, cool, cool.
And was there anything else?
I have nothing more.
I have nothing more.
I'm drained.
Dave, I'm drained.
Kevin?
I was doing a little research in the background, but I cannot find the gravitar license.
It's owned by Automatic, which is the same company that owns WordPress.
It's more likely free than not.
I'm guessing, but I haven't definitively proven that.
As we know, if it ain't stated, then it isn't.
Okay, time for bringing that up.
And let's look into that.
Show me.
Okay, with that box, if you're joining,
everybody be standing for the HPR National Anthem.
Join us now and share the software.
You'll be free hackers.
You'll be free.
Yes.
Thankfully, Dave, nobody asked our MS to sing that in Luxembourg, so.
Oh, he would.
I'm sure he would.
Oh, yes.
Okay, guys, that's all.
Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker.
Public radio.
God, this is almost like we rehearsed that.
All right, thanks for everybody.
Tune in tomorrow for it.
Okay, see you guys.
See you.
Cheers.
Right, where's my off button?
You.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every week day, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
