Episode: 2786
Title: HPR2786: My YouTube Channels
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2786/hpr2786.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 16:48:54

---

This is HPR Episode 2007-186 entitled, My YouTube Channel, and in part on the series, YouTube Subscriptions.
It is hosted by Tony H.A. Tony H.1212 and is about 7 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is a short show about some of my YouTube channels inspired by a huker.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hello again, HPR Listeners. This is Tony Hughes coming from Blupper in the UK. Recently,
Aduka started a series on the YouTube channels that he subscribes to and it seemed like a good topic
to share some of my favourite YouTube channels. This time I'll share some of the tech channels
and the next based channels that I watch. First one is bigclive.com. Clive strips down and tests
equipment, particularly cheap Chinese electronics. One of these main things is warning watches
about the dangers of some of these cheaper electronic products. He stripped down cheap LED lights
and various other things in the past, particularly USB power banks and things and some of these
can be highly dangerous as he's shown on the show. The next show that I'd like to talk about is
Category 5 Technology TV. This show has been going a long time and I've been watching it for many years.
Occasionally I used to watch it live because it goes out well after midnight, UK time. It's not
something that I can do on a regular basis. Over the years, the production quality of Category 5 has
gone up massively. I think it's probably Studio C or Studio D. They've got a fantastic studio,
great bunch of presenters and they talk about general technology but with a bias and a large
focus on Linux and OpenStore software, there'll be a link in the show notes to this and the other
channels that I talk about. Next, we come to explaining computers. This is a more professional,
quite slick technology show and the guy that runs it, I think probably makes a living out of this show
whereas I'm not sure that big clive and the guy's definitely on Category 5. Do it more as a hobby
but this guy on explaining computers talks about lots and lots of things to do with computer hardware
and software on occasions. He's particularly interested in single board computers like the Raspberry
and the Pine64. So if you've got any queries about those two computers, head over to explaining
computers but there's lots of stuff on there that you can have a look at. Now moving over to Linux,
the next person's channel that I have a look at is Das Geek. Ryan's fairly new person to Linux
and he's now part of the Destination Linux podcast crew. He's also an avid gamer and as well
as reviewing Linux, he looks at the latest games and how well they'll work on Linux PCs
and he's always testing out new gaming hardware such as new graphics cards and things like that.
So if you're into gaming but also if you're into Linux, go and take a look at Das Geek
and also take a look at Destination Linux because that's a great show as well. Next we've got
Big Daddy Linux. This is a new video look cast kind of show which recently they take a look at
new distro every yet week and this was started by the guy who started the Destination Linux podcast
and he moved on to create Big Daddy Linux. It goes out live once a week, they've just changed the
time to 8pm eastern time to make it a bit more friendly to the European contributors such as
Popeye from Ubuntu UK podcast who joins in most times and if you can't log in and watch it live,
you can watch your recording of the show later and a great thing is that they also include
the IRC chat within the YouTube stream so that you'll get to see the IRC chat as it was live during
the show. So head off over to Big Daddy Linux if you want to look at new reviews of various
different Linux distros but also general chat about Linux related stuff. Another channel to do
with Linux but also to do with hardware is the Radbury Pi channel. This includes physios from the
Foundation and from community contributors and they do these various videos up there about
new Raspberry Pi hardware but also about what people are doing with their Raspberry Pi's.
So take a look at that, that's a great one. Another channel that I included that I had a look at
when I was trying to get grips with the Audacity as an audio recording and editing piece of software
is a channel about free Audacity tutorials. It's very handy for those of us that readily use Audacity
and it helps us delve into learning about more about that piece of software. So if you want to get
to grips with Audacity and you're looking for a place to start, they'd be a good idea to head over
to the YouTube channel. And finally this episode I've included another professional channel which
is Linux Tech Tips. He's basically another computer review show, talks about tips and tricks relating
to all stuff geeky and technology wise. Recently did a show about a little board that you could slot
in a load of micro SD cards to make a hard drive which turned out to be rather rubbish really but
he proved that it wasn't a very good board but it is there if you want to go another look at it.
But this is a very heavily sponsored show although he does seem to be fairly fair with his
reviews of the technology even though he may have got it for for nothing and it's been passed on
to him by the manufacturers. So take a look at Linux's Tech Tips and that's a fairly good show.
So that's it for this show and I'm going to sign off for now and be back with another show soon.
Thanks very much. Thanks for listening. Bye.
You've been listening to HecopobliGradio at HecopobliGradio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HecopobliGradio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under
Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
