Episode: 2471
Title: HPR2471: Tea Time!
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2471/hpr2471.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 03:45:44

---

This is HPR episode 2004-171 entitled D-Time.
It is hosted by Opera Nero R and in about 6 minutes long, and carry the next visit flag.
The summary is, I go over where I am at with D.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Hacker Bubble Gradyo, headed home here in traffic,
Lina.
I'm going to, this episode is going to be about, I heard an episode here actually listening
to an episode right now, 24, 40, how to say bad things, and it made me think that I
haven't really talked about my tea and green tea and all that stuff.
If you're not interested in teas, green teas, or alternative things to drink besides
coffee, this would be that valuable for us.
I started a kind of a 9-5 type of job where I would have to be conscious at certain times
of the day, what I normally wouldn't be conscious, so I said I don't want to be one of those
guys as drinking coffee all the time.
What I did was started looking around, I bought a bunch of green tea, realized that there's
no little to no caffeine in the green tea.
We have a market here in Atlanta called the Cab Forer's Market where you can buy loose
leaf and green tea, different types of tea and spices.
I got a few things there, started messing around with green teas, realizing that there's
not a whole lot of caffeine or a lot of kick to any of those.
They have all types of good things in them, like your longs and stuff like that have different
types of good things in them, but there's not a whole lot of caffeine, so there's other
alternatives, like Costco, brand, energy drinks that are, you know, you buy a box full
and you get a ton of those, there's a ton of caffeine in it and it's got that touring
or whatever stuff in there that gives you the kind of thing stuff that 5-hour energy
has.
So I know I didn't want to do that because those are kind of overkill, you know, I use
those for, if I'm about to fall asleep with a wheel, I'll take a 5-hour energy basically.
So what I ended up doing was looking at running and stumbling upon matcha and the matcha
is basically ground up green tea.
I don't know what the different types of matcha there are, the only type that they had
at the store, the market was just, it just said matcha, it didn't even tell you what
how, what type of tea it was.
So it's essentially they grind up in a powder form and it is a mess.
I'm trying to think of eyeliner in that regard where it's very thin and very, it sticks
to your skin.
So it's a mess, but it's a powder tea and it has a lot more punch and a lot more flavor
than if you were to do like a losing tea and it's basically like an instant coffee or
an instant tea.
So there's a little bit more caffeine in those.
It's not nearly as bad as like a Starbucks cup of coffee, but I still kind of struggled
with it because it was very potent.
The flavor is extremely pretty overwhelming depending on how much of the powder you put
in there.
I probably put too much to try to get more caffeine out of the green tea than I would normally
get.
On top of that, I started raining into a thing called a mate which is in some cases
a cold beverage.
They will drink it out of a gourd if you've ever seen the TV show Mozart in the jungle.
The guy is infamous for drinking his little mate with a thing.
So it's almost like a cross between loosely green tea and matcha and it's kind of like
they grind everything up.
They grind the stem up and the leaves and all that stuff and it's a certain kind of tea
leave that's like a monoculture.
So anyways, there's a fair amount more of caffeine in those as opposed to green tea.
So you get a little bit two or three times more punch still not nearly as bad as a cup
of coffee, Starbucks coffee.
But you get a little bit more punch for what you get and there's also better supposedly
stuff in Motte than there is anything else.
I don't know the brand, I know of Offhand, I know it's yellow and it's got like a parod
on it or whatever.
I'll see if I can look at it as I'm trying to drive at the same time and see if I can
bring up the brand that I like.
It's very strong.
A lot of your green teas are like that unless you get like your flowery based green teas
that will have a fair amount of like floral stuff in them, almost like your sockies will
do the same thing.
We'll have some very floral sockies that are dry.
You traditionally can drink it with a, you can drink it cold.
The Motte you can drink cold and you can kind of cold brew it.
They say to brew it at strangely enough like 80 degrees.
You don't want to roast it basically.
You don't want to have like 120 degree traditional boiling kind of water.
They say to see it in less and more less hot and there's a bunch of extra stuff online
about how to have different ways you can make the Motte but I usually hot brew it and
I will add, I will add ice in a bunch of sugar and then kind of go from there.
So I'll see if I can, while I'm still, if I can find the brand that I like, no, I don't
see it.
But it's like in a pair of way or something, the mountains of, you know, Lava, Adirond
Acres.
It's something pretty good.
Anyways, that's a quick little episode for you guys.
I hope this helps you out.
Try not to drink too much coffee or that energy drinks.
Try to get you some Motte and have a good time and share.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find
out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution,
share a like, 3.0 license.
