Episode: 2405
Title: HPR2405: Nokia 6 Review
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2405/hpr2405.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 02:23:53

---

This in HP are episode 2400 and 5 entitled Nokia 6 Review and in part on the series Hardware Up Raiden.
It is hosted by Tony Huma, Tony H1212 and is about 11 minutes long and Karima Cleanflag.
The summary is, this is a short show about my first thoughts on the Nokia 6.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello, hacker public radio listeners, this is Tony Hughes in Blackpool in the UK.
I recently decided to upgrade my current mobile phone. I've been running the OnePlus 1, the original OnePlus that came out three and a half years ago and mine was three years old.
For the last 12 months it's not been subject to any updates so I'm still running on Android 6.1 and the last security update was September 2016.
So I had a choice, I could either decide to go for a flash, flash the ROM and put a different OS on it or I could get a new phone.
Well unfortunately the OnePlus didn't come with an O2 compatible aerial in it so I've not been able to get 4G on my particular carrier which is GIFGaff which runs on the O2 network.
So I decided I was going to upgrade the phone because I quite like GIFGaff and I'm quite happy with their offerings and the cost and what I get for monthly cash.
So I was looking around and I saw the Nokia 6. 32 gig version of that was 200 quid so I thought let's get a bit more.
So I went to the local big box store, had a look at it and decided I was going to get it.
So just for information the kind of specifications with this particular phone is it's 5.5 inch 1080p screen.
It's got the Snapdragon 430 chipset with an optical 1.4GHz Cortex 8 A53, the GPU's Arduino 505, it's got 3GHz RAM, it's capable of having two SIMs both 4G compatible here in the UK.
Or you can have one SIM and you can use the other slot for a SD expansion, up to 128 gig of extra storage.
It's also got 16 and 8 megapixel cameras.
The home button acts as a fingerprint scanner and interestingly in love Nokia have decided to keep the 3.5mm headphone jack and all this is bundled in an all metal aluminium case.
All for the grand total as I've already said of £200. So it's quite a nice purchase for a mid-range phone, particularly when you start thinking about 5.5 inch phones, screen phones starting to get up to the £300-400 mark.
So I was quite happy with it.
On opening the box the phone comes with Android 7.1 but as soon as connected to Wi-Fi, it started an update process that took about an hour altogether and I ended up with a 7.11 with the latest September security patches, so I was quite happy with that.
The first issue I encountered was the phone uses a nano SIM card for the phone network and the old OnePlus used the bigger micro SIM.
So I had to wait a day so to get a new SIM card sent out to me. Finally got the new SIM card, about 24 hours later.
But in the meantime I started having a look on the phone and installing some of the software applications that I use, checking that all my contacts had been transferred over to the new phone, which despite having backup enabled on the OnePlus, some of the contacts haven't migrated but that's not a phone issue, that's more to do with Google.
So I'll have to investigate that more because I want to make sure all my contacts are securely saved so that if I do need to do a factory reset I can get them back again.
When the SIM arrived I put that in with a 16GB micro SD card and both were recognized straight away and it asked me to configure the SD card either as additional internal storage or as a standalone SD card.
It was easier to configure it as a standalone SD card so that I can take it out and use it in other things that I've needed to.
And as I was only going to be saving my photos, things like podcast and music to stop it being on the internal storage, I wasn't worried about expanding the internal storage.
So but this does have the advantage of leaving the internal 32GB just for apps and Android updates.
So first thing I noticed over the previous OnePlus when using the phone is how snappy everything is, it just seems to be a lot slicker.
Touch screen is really nice, it responds well and it's a reasonably improvement over the old phone and it actually cost about £100 less than the previous OnePlus.
So in three years I've got a phone that's actually improved and I've paid £100 less than it is for the previous one and I can probably get 100 quid for the other ones.
I'm doing alright there. Another thing like I said was that they've decided to keep the headphone jack and I was very pleased with that because I do listen to a lot of music and audio and pretty well every day actually.
And I do like to wear me earbuds, that's a big plus for me. If it's some future date I do decide to go over to Bluetooth headset.
Then I've still got the capacity to use that as well.
A lot's been said about the battery life on the phone, it comes with a 300,000mAh battery which is the same as the old OnePlus.
And a lot of people say that given the fact that it's got a 1080p screen and it's not up to all day use but with my usage profile compared with the OnePlus.
I'm getting as good if not better battery life than I used to get with the OnePlus. So I'm not particularly worried about that.
The one thing that is a little bit of a downer is it's not capable of fast charge.
The OnePlus would allow rapid charging and I used a two and a half amp or Raspberry Pi USB charger.
And I could get the phone charged in about an hour and a half from pretty virtually empty.
I could get it up to 80, 90% in less than a couple of hours. Whereas this one takes, if you get it right down to below 30%, it can take 5 or 6 hours to charge.
So if you do, you probably will need to carry your charger or a portable battery back around with you if you use it very heavily.
Like I say, after a 14 hour day battery is usually down to about 50-60% so that's well within what I need it to be.
I got it down to about 40% one night and stuck it on charge about half past midnight and when I woke up the next morning it was still just shy of being fully charged.
I have noticed, even though the official two amp charger is less powerful than the Raspberry Pi charger, it does seem to charge a little faster.
So I don't know whether that's something to do with the way the charger and the phone are configured together.
That probably needs someone a bit more expert than me to figure out. But like I say, you should really carry your charger or a portable battery pack up for emergency top ups.
So to sum up, would I recommend the Nokia 6 to someone in the market for a fablet?
In short, yes, if you need the larger screen but can't afford high-end, you know, larger screen phones, then this is a really good mid-range option.
If you need to use the dual SIM capacity, it might be worth spending the extra 40 quid or so and getting the 64 gig version to give you a bit of extra room for updates and for applications that you may want to put on.
So then you've still got plenty of space left for media like podcasts and music and stuff because the extra SIM card takes up the space where the SD card would go for your portable expansion.
So you wouldn't have that option. You'd be limited to the 64 gig of internal storage.
But if you're quite happy just having the one SIM card in there, I wouldn't worry about getting the extra 62 gig at 64 gig one because micro SD cards are so cheap now, you can get 128 one for 3040 quid anyway.
So which would give you a hell of a lot more storage than the 64 gig one?
After two weeks, my first impressions, it's quite a good phone and well worth the 200 quid that I paid for it.
So that's about it for now. Hope you've listened out there and found this useful.
This is Tony Hughes in Bloodpool in the UK signing off the public radio for this time. Bye!
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Heckup Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, Share a Life, 3.0 license.
