Episode: 2954
Title: HPR2954: Wrestling As You Like It episode 1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2954/hpr2954.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 13:48:29

---

This is HPR Episode 2954 for Thursday 28 November 2019. Today's show isn't titled
Wrestling as you like it, Episode 1, and it's hosted by The Dude. It's about 8 minutes long,
carries an explicit flag. The summary is, our Wrestling Podcast report on Indie Wrestling.
Today we're talking about different TV styles.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Okay, this is, oh sorry about that. We're going to put that over there. Hopefully this won't work out all right.
Anyway, this is the Wrestling as you like it. Podcasts on hacker public radio. And yes, I am driving
right now, but whatever. This podcast needs to be done. Today we're going to talk about a couple of
things. Mainly wrestling style, such as how wrestling is filmed or recorded.
Specifically, we're going to talk about my interest in two organizations that I've been following.
Actually, three. We're going to actually include CMLL on this and a little bit of WWE,
but it's mainly going to be Capital Wrestling and the NWA. Now,
wrestling is usually shot kind of like a boxy match, but there's also like reality TV in the
background, which all goes down to, well, the riding aspect mainly Vince Russo for that type of
style, also Vince the man, but to how to shoot wrestling, how people see how wrestling is shot
all goes to a man named Kevin Dunn. And although a lot of people in the wrestling business don't
really care for Mr. Kevin Dunn, but you can't not deny his influence on how wrestling is shot on TV.
Now that being said, everybody tries to shoot in that style, it seems anymore, until recently.
Well, I wouldn't say until recently, because there's a couple other CMLLs, the odd mall. But anyway,
nowadays, you had a show called Lucha Underground, which filmed everything cinematic.
And they had the cinematic look for everything except the matches, the matches are typical
NWA, but everything in the background was not cinematic. Well, this brings me to a
promotion that has been influenced by this, and that is Capital Wrestling, which is on the
fight network. It's a promotion out of New Jersey. And how it shot is cinematic throughout the
entire thing, for the most part. And that difference in how they set up everything, especially since
sometimes their shows are at schools, so they'll take the school stage, or even a theater, they have
the entrances come off the stage. And that is something that hasn't really been seen before,
especially when people equate wrestling to theater. It definitely makes, like for a unique experience
in a unique launch. That in the wrestling is really great as well. Next up, we come to the NWA,
which with NWA power, they did theirs as like an old school 70s, in 80s wrestling studio show,
which great, even though the style is old, it's so old that it's new and refreshing.
And with that style comes with a lot of chaos, which is great, especially since,
well, this is taped in the studio, but if it was live in the studio, it'd be amazing.
And also, new freaking spoilers, which is what happened with a tape show, unfortunately,
and I wish my fellow wrestling journalists would stop broadcasting spoilers and run for everybody
else. But anyway, that being said, with the chaos that comes with a studio wrestling show,
it breathes like an nostalgia value and also is extremely refreshing. And it also is identifiable,
especially, like I said, with like cap of wrestling, it is identifiable. Well, how lucha underground was,
it was identifiable. You know, it's not like you pop on a wrestling show and it's like, okay,
it's this wrestling show. It's exactly like the other wrestling show, but with different wrestlers.
This, it completely looks different and puts you in a different experience, like you're actually
fall in love with wrestling for the first time. And now this brings me to CMLL. Now, CMLL,
they're formats completely different. As opposed to like backstage segments for the provos or
how the NWA does it, they have like it all in the studio.
CMLL, all the provos and everything leading up to match. They actually have a separate show,
like a press conference, where the wrestlers, you know, they promote the match coming up. So,
it's kind of like a boxing. And it is definitely shot, kind of, old school boxing with,
with, you know, card girls, you know, with, you have girls that carry around the round cards in
boxing. Well, and CMLL, wrestling, you actually have girls that hold the cards for like each fall.
So round one, round two is, you know, each pinfall, you know, pinfall one, pinfall two,
pinfall three. And it gives like a really huge sports vibe with it. Of course, that again,
CMLL, you know, Mexico, I mean, wrestling in a Mexico is taking a lot more serious than it is.
Up here, same with Japan, but I'm not really familiar with New Japan style. So, I'll have to come back
to you on that. But, when it comes to visual style, it's nice to have a lot of variety,
which I believe has been lacking for the longest time. Because before, it's really only CMLL,
is the only thing doing anything different from the WWE style that I've seen so far.
Maybe the promotions in Japan do something different. As far as I wear, it's more like a clip show,
but that being said, it's nice that all of American promotions have been doing a different style
and just to stand out. And it also keeps you hooked. And next week, well, not next week, next month,
I'm going to try to go in the detail. I'm going to be following mainly NWA cap or wrestling.
CMLL, if I have the time to, but until then, keep on looking at more episodes. And also,
if you're a wrestling fan, keep watching.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club, and it's part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
