Episode: 2956
Title: HPR2956: HPR Community News for November 2019
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2956/hpr2956.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 13:54:16

---

This is HPR Episode 2956 for Monday 2nd December 2019. Today's show is entitled HPR Community
News for November 2019. It's hosted by HPR volunteers and is about 87 minutes long and
carries an explicit flag. Summary is Dave, Yerun and Ken. Talk about shows, released
and commons posted in November 2019. This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honest
Host.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honest Host.com.
Hi, everybody. My name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker
Public Radio. Today, it's the community news for November 2019. This is an opportunity
for people in the community to come on and have a chat about what's been happening, the
shows and the great news. Joining me tonight is Hi, it's Dave Morris, which I hope you
can hear me because my son's been playing up, but hopefully he can. It's fine. The biggest
news I guess was the introduction of our two new hosts. Can you introduce them there, Dave?
Yes, right, Neil Azo is our first one who we met at Ogcamp and Daniel Pereson, I think
you pronounce it. It means Peres, Pereson doesn't it in Swedish and whatever, but Pereson
I would guess he hasn't said it himself, so I'm not quite sure. Hopefully he'll correct
to correct me if I got it completely wrong. Always a good idea to introduce yourself
on the shows because I also take that segment out and put it into the recordings of people
of HPR hosts into that great big film. Okay, so the first thing we normally do is we, if you're
new to HPR, HPR is a community news podcast where the shows are submitted by listeners very much.
In fact, indeed, identical to you. The community news show is an opportunity for us to go have a
look at what's been happening and one thing that we always try and do is go back and comment on
any of the shows in the last month, that way at least somebody gets some feedback because feedback
is the currency of the podcaster. It's not correct, Dave. Indeed it is. If you're new to HPR
and you want to help out, one of the biggest things that you can do is give some feedback on
the shows, which is something that I did on HPR 2935, the work of a firefighter, to which I said
that sucks. So 200, 2,400 liters. So this was a show about
from Yirun who continues his introduction to firefighting and he just kind of dropped
in one of the shows that they have a unit that's capable of transporting 2,400 liters per second,
which I converted to, obviously it's 2.4 cubic meters a second. So that would be my front living room
in two seconds in order to film my front living room, which is equivalent to 84,
well the best part of 85,000 square foot or cubic foot. Yeah, cubic foot, yeah. And or 6,340.01
gallons per second US liquid. That's a lot. That's certainly a lot of, and I was fascinated that
this is a device that gets ported to nearby source of water and then pumps on it over a very
long pipe, I think is what it said, wasn't it? Yeah, so the drop this thing off had one of the many
little puns and stuff that they have around for holding water, basically. And then the truck
travels with a hose, a fire hose at 40 kilometers an hour. You're driving another
older 40 kilometers an hour, dropping the whole fire hose and then that goes to another tank and
then from their spreads to the house, it's like another level of firefighting. But amazing.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'd love to see pictures of them. I actually see one of these things. They have
them, they have one, we live right beside the fire station here and they have one of them there
and I never knew what it was. But like, yeah, during the do tours for kids and during the
the thing, he was going, yeah, this is for when we need to get extra fire from the slope,
but from the ditch or whatever. But didn't kind of hit me how much this thing can pump.
Yeah, yeah, it's touching. What you need, Matthew, but it's still pretty amazing.
Yeah, it is pretty cool. And I also commented that blows, which is obviously a reference to
the back draft training video by Keith Thomas, and there was a link in that. That was where
the recreated back draft and you were talking about that. And then your fired is my last comment.
Can you go into how to work? You have this me just not letting a series die.
Going to work the relationship of working as a part-time firefighter, how often are you called
out? Are there noes obliging a company to give you time off? What happens if you get injured,
who plays your unemployment benefits the way they are curing? And can you get fired from your main job
if you guess injured in your part-time job? And how much do you make as a volunteer fire
and can you explain the role of a junior firefighting team? So there you go.
In there, you're in. We need some more. Make the mistake of saying, oh I think this is all I can get out of
this series. Yeah, yeah. That's some good questions there. I'd like to know the answers to them.
Yeah, yeah. Thing is pointing at you, you're in. I was kind of hoping that that would have
clicked based on Monof to come on when he read the comments. Yeah, yeah. Anyway,
I'll go back to some of the community news as people. The following day we had, Bento,
had Windows, SDN and Firewalls been a firewall user for the past three years.
He did some information on SDN and a DIY approach to firewalls. This was good to have him come back,
which was great. Where are you? What number are you on? The next one is the next one is the next
one is the community news. I don't know where you even went to. You went off on a different
universe down a black hole or something. So the next one was community news. Any comments on
that, Dave? Yes. Yes. Lost and Bronx. You do them. Okay. Lost and Bronx says Ken's voice
is better than eSpeak. My part, Ken's reading of the opening info is far far better than eSpeak.
Then again, a screaming cat would be better. I've brought up what an incredible turn of that
eSpeak intro is to new listeners on the email list before and I was hooted down. But if you're
asking for opinions, well, this is mine. Okay. This is not a criticism. Be careful,
eSpeak is a wonderful technology, but the voices have not developed in the last 10, 15 years,
at least. There are better voices out there. The thing about this is me doing the intros.
I did it for a month and it slows processing of the shows down and it also puts a manual step
in which is something that we're wanting to go away from. So I would much prefer having
a computer-generative voice that is to do that. So what I will probably start doing now is
Mike Ray has sent me another tool where there is a slightly better computer-generative voice.
So we might try that for a while and see how we're going.
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, the issue is people who use eSpeak get used to the fact that it doesn't
sound very nice. People who have never encountered it before think it sounds foul. I can sympathize
with that. So yeah, finding a compromise would be great. Yeah, I've had a bit of a rant with
Mike about this offline. So I would love for there to be an ability to train the voices and add
voices easier to eSpeak. And it's it seems to just have stagnated for one reason or another that
people are just people who use it day in day out are happy with it. But I've seen that my daughter
who would benefit from any text-to-speech application will cannot use it because that voice has given
her it's just too scary. It was scary back when she was seven and now she just has bad feelings
about that voice. No, understood, understood. So the next comment is from John Culp who says
pots. Thanks for holding it down solo this month, Ken. And yes, I did think of using a potential
meter instead of a resistor, but this clock's case didn't have much wiggle room and I wasn't
up for anything more challenging. A volume knob for the alarm would be fantastic for sure. That
was John hacking his alarm clock to to make it a bit quieter. Yeah, great idea.
Clackley says release order or episode order. This was about what's the best way to watch Star Trek
or Star Wars. I haven't rewatched all the movies myself, but when I do, I hope I will
with my son at some point. It will be in Machet order, so named because it was first described
on the oh my god no machete. Chocolate. Yeah, don't don't ever do that. I have a
juggler machete. Yeah, the wrong end during Purbo. You have Purbo. The explanation why is full of
spoilers and you can't find it online. In short, it makes the journey of one soul re-examining
it through the further, to the story of another, then joins the stories in the grand finale.
The order is four, five, two, three, six, and then the episode order from then on.
It papers over some of Lucas's worst narrative mistakes and rooms, none of the surprises except one.
It is sincerely that release order. The prequels require original trilogy knowledge to fully
enjoy and the room, the important surprises of the original trilogy. So, episode order,
not the way to go. Okay. Okay, sorry, I'll do release order, yeah.
Fair enough. It's an important question, you know. Well, if you're coming at a new
fresh, then yeah, it's a very confusing business otherwise. It probably seems odd that
my children have not seen Star Wars, but we do actually look at the age ratings of movies and
they're not allowed to watch movies that are not meant for kids. Yeah, fair enough.
Until the ready for them. That said, they've watched some fairly heavy movies since then,
but yeah, with parental supervision as you can imagine. Anyway, one that I'm really glad has turned
up as Lorde's film reviews, His Girl Friday. This was mixing a review series and it's been back,
brought back in honor of Lorde, who passed away in last year, and it's by Lawson Bronx and it was
on His Girl Friday, which apparently was a remake of a remake of a remake. So, I found that
an interesting thing and an interesting approach. Yeah, I don't think I've ever seen it. It's a film
that's probably been on telly at various times, but I've sort of dipped in and out probably because it's
yeah, and it was fascinating that Lawson Bronx pointed out that the name makes no sense because it's
not anything to do with the girl Friday. And I never noticed that before. You just accept these
things. That's the name of the film. I'm watching the film there, but yeah, his analysis is always
a very, very eye-opening and this one particular. I had, we use, I don't know, back when there was
only two channels in Ireland, unless you had a really tall aerial and you could pick up the
beab from Northern Ireland. There used to, you know, the requirement on having more mixed very
content was a lot higher on TVs. And now since, you know, cable networks have come along
channels, there isn't a variety show that they're used to. There isn't a variety on the regular
channels that they're used to be. And I think that's a pity. Not to say that the 4 o'clock in the
morning watching ballet when you come in from work was, you know, the most awe-inspiring, but at
least I did get to watch some ballet in my life. Well, it's interesting you say that because I
ended up back in those sorts of days. There were a few more channels in the UK, but not that many.
Watching things because I wanted to watch something and it was on. And, you know,
and ended up watching the entirety of civilisation with Ken. Was it Clark? What was his Clark,
Lord Clark or whatever his name on it? I forgot that now. I've got a box set of it here which
I haven't watched since. And things like ballet, as you say, I discovered that there was
somebody called peanut bow who made amazingly weird ballet things and sat there fascinated watching
these things. I've never been to see ballet as a consequence of it, but it made it made quite an
impression on me at the time because I was sort of caught by it and watched it and then came away
thinking, but why? And is this really for me? But it was really interesting to know that it existed.
So, yeah, it's the siloing of stuff, I suppose it is. The sort of narrowing, narrow casting of
these things is something of an issue. And because at the time there was a juicy then
a requirement to make sure that the information you were or the content that you were pushing out
was representing all the society. So, yeah. That was interesting, I don't know. The point is,
you don't see those movies on TV anymore is what I'm saying because they're all on some other
channel that you need to subscribe to in order to watch. Which is a bit of a pity. Anywho,
Markov Chains, for to generate names, this was no surprise, a Haskell show by Tukitoruto.
And I think there was no comment on this, but there was a comment on the following show about
those. To be honest, I had never heard of Markov Chains and had to Wikipedia them to find out
what he was on the bus. It's something I'd come across actually. I was looking at Markov
processes or whatever you call them as a possible way of analyzing my data from my PhD,
years and years and years and years ago. And fascinatingly, my son is currently doing Markov
thingies with slightly different names for his AI course that he's doing at the moment. So,
I still don't understand it, I have no clue really, although I'm told that mathematically,
it's quite simple. But it's a state changing thing that relies on the previous node, I think,
is it in that show? It's very much a bad sense when he was talking about it.
What? Yeah, yeah, exactly. Let it go for a little bit.
Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Was that who used to say that Richard Feynman lectures that you come
out of a Richard Feynman lecture and 20 minutes later, you knew that it was explained,
but it just left your head. Yes, I had the, if somebody wants to explain how
in the past transforms work, that would be awesome as well. Gosh, yeah, yeah. That's right,
but we did math when I was younger, so yeah. I did okay. I'm not good at math.
I haven't just calculated, I believe. But I do get the concepts. I will always get the numbers wrong,
which is why I switched. I use computers because I can trust computer, I can trust my head,
even if I do the same calculation twice in a row. But when we got to the past transforms,
I just could not get it. But since then, you know, watching big clive and things like that
are, you know, some of the amradial guys, they start talking about them there and how
they're used and filtering. So if there's anybody who's listening to this thinking, I don't know,
if I want to do a show, but I happen to be an expert, I'd explain in the past transforms,
feel free to do so. Absolutely. Anywho, the following show was unique insofar as I didn't break the
rule of listening to it before I went up, but I was still implemented some fixes as a result of
this. And this is how to submit a show in 10 easy steps. And right there, it shouldn't be 10 easy
steps. It should be just one easy step. But that I put down to me. So be easy to show on how to
submit a show. And I commented clarification as a result of the show, there is now an upload button
on every page. So, which is kind of absolutely obvious thing that we should have had on there.
So it's always refreshing to hear this. One thing he did mention, and we absolutely need to
make it clear is that if you submit your address, it is going everywhere, absolutely everywhere.
So if you don't want your address to be used, please email admin at hackerpublicradio.org.
And we will create a redirect for you. So your hostname at hackerpublicradio. And then that will
be in the show notes and not your actual real email address. Yeah. Yeah. But the
defanging of the email address is something that is on there. You can find it, but it needs to be
repeated. So better social media, Mastodon, which actually prompted me to this entire series,
prompted me to go and set off a account. And we are now on Mastodon, Dave. Awesome.
Indeed. I've definitely seen messages from you on Mastodon. So I can vouch for that.
What do you mean? Over to somebody pretending to be using it.
Well, I haven't known. I'm talking to you now. I don't know. And it's, you know,
that's life. That's double eye hire to go over to all the conferences.
Would you mind reading that one? So, yeah, sorry. I was just finding the button. I have to press
to say you can hear me. It's been a bad day to me. Anyway. So yeah, Claudio M says,
simple Mastodon timeline view option. Great episode on Mastodon and the various instances.
By the way, I heard that you noticed the interface looked like tweet deck. You can change that if
you go into preferences to appearance and then uncheck the box for the enable advanced web
interface. This will make the interface much simpler with only the column of the timeline you've
chosen. Hold notifications local timeline or federated timeline on the list at the right of the
page. The instance I'm on Mastodon.xyz is running version 2.9.3 of Mastodon. So anything at that
version or greater should have this option. Cool. Nice tip. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I certainly found that
the interface was very, very weird with all these columns. The concept that the best thing to do with
the web page is to have lots of narrow columns. So, you know, you sort of like writing messages on
bus tickets, which nobody will understand because there's such thing anymore. But just struck me
as a little odd. You know, I've got this monitor that stretches from here to wherever. And it's
all strange little narrow columns. But yeah, but you live with it. You learn to live with it.
But it is, it is an odd, I don't quite understand the logic of that, but there you go. Yeah,
you, you guys, I don't know, sometimes the following day we had server basics one or seven
mini shift and container management by class two. This is a series to watch out for folks. If
you're not following along, this is the very, very, very good series. He's starting at ground
and working his way up. All of the, I strongly suspect this series was triggered by his new world
order series where he's going through this tattoo, by the way, is going through every single command
slackware Linux and basically describing them, which has been a revelation to me. And he came
across one that required namespaces. And then that has spawned. I believe this, I could be wrong,
maybe planter for ages, who knows how to tattoos, mindworks. But this is really building up how
darker containers were or containers in general work and how you can get them running. So I'm
actually going to assign some training time and go through this entire series one after the other.
Yeah, my first reaction to this was, yeah, yeah, that's fine. It's all cool and all that.
But what's it got to do with me? That sounds more aggressive than I meant it to be. But will it ever
have any relevance to my life? But of course, I'm completely wrong and it will. Listening to
discussions about containers just this very day, I hear people misunderstand how containers work
when they're discussing them. And so would I, of course. But having an understanding of how it operates
and the fact that it's namespaces and it's all on the same machine and so on and so forth, it's
really, really quite important because you can easily come a crop if you think that containers
are the same as virtual systems, virtual, virtual, what do my colleagues like, I can't think.
Yeah, virtual. So virtual server, thank you very much. So yes, I very much appreciate this,
this particular series that Clat is doing. I hope he actually continues on with it and
covers some of the cool stuff that can be done. So the following day, why I love Lisp's
a very wooden scripted episodes about why I love Lisp programming language. And I must criticise
him for this, that it wasn't wooden and it might have been scripted but it didn't come across as
wooden to me. Well, no, I thought it was really well done first show for the first thing.
I thought there was lots of enthusiasm coming through there which will carry you through all
sorts of things where you maybe feel that you're not delivering in the best way. If you have
enthusiasm when it comes across, then it counts for an enormous amount. And I didn't find it
sounded like a scripted thing at all and it had some really good content. I hope that there
will be much more. Yes, because this was a great introduction to Lisp and why they're cool.
And I'd really like to know more. So I could actually go and follow down some of these
these chat, these routes and see for myself how much fun they can be.
Perhaps a hello world episode or how to get started, installation, where you might use them,
that sort of thing. Yeah, yeah. Just actually being able to install one and
type things at it. I mean, that Fibonacci thing is nice and looks like something that wouldn't
be too hard to type and to get your head around how it works would be quite a powerful thing.
Well, you impressed Tukotoritor anyway who said welcome. Welcome and thanks for the great first
episode. Like you said, Lisp's are super powerful lammages and are fun to program. I feel like
Lisp is a perfect language to write the language you use to solve your problem with. When I was
calling in Lisp for a hobby, I often wrote my program in lammages I wished I had and then added
the needed features to the language I had with macros. Yes, and Carl says, well done. I thought
this was a great episode and the reading didn't bother me at all. Your enthusiasm for Lisp still
came through. Maybe you want to check into one of them. That's pretty much what I said. Yeah,
that's very good. Yeah. And Jerry Kay says, loved it. I've been a fan of Lisp's for years. I
haven't played with Carl Jure until you mentioned it. So that's the next plan. Great first episode.
T.Y. Let Jerry. Yeah. Good, good, good. Well, I hope we will we will see more and
anybody else who wants to join in with the Lisp theme, I'm sure it would be much appreciated.
And that was a good first episode, but you know, your first episode doesn't have to be as good as
that. I mean, I did a show about how to repair an ironing board, you know, so how do things
ironing boards break and need to be repaired? I mean, that's good stuff. The following day, we had
music as life, quantum harmony by Brian. And this, not for the first time,
show by Brian that had me pondering stuff. And it was interesting. Yes, yes. Some of the things
that Brian does floor me totally and this is one. Having come from a science background,
I find it really hard to understand what what what the message is here to be perfectly honest,
but I'm sure that's a deficiency of mine rather than anything else. Well, no, I kind of I kind of
got the the idea that certain things are like notes. If you use that as an analogy for how life
is formed, that the harmonies of things interacting with each other are like composition. So you got
each, you know, what I felt was that now you make me actually doubt whether I follow that or not,
but I felt that every life form was an individual perhaps an individual instrument. And then
everybody playing together was the harmony of life. Maybe that's down on a also on a cellular
level that each of the molecules or individual pieces coming together form. Yes, yes, I've heard
these sorts of ideas exercised in the biology world is the Gaia hypothesis, which is that, you know,
all the life on the planet is somehow interacting in ways that make a whole, you know, sort of a super
organism or super super entity of some some kind. So, you know, I think those those ideas are
around. And is there not a philosophy that we've got in the name of it now that that sees elements
of consciousness in all in every part of the world, every part of the universe that we adjust a
manifestation of many many of these pieces with their own individual portions of consciousness,
which is resulted in the consciousness that we have, those sorts of things. It's a it's a Greek,
it goes back to Greek times, I believe, but, but I don't understand.
And right there, Dave, means it's a topic that's interesting, but we could do with more
absolutely, absolutely. Just the fact that I do not understand the thing means I should understand
the thing, therefore I want to know all of these. So, the following day, we had Onyx basis.
There was a there was a comment. Oh, sorry, you know, I didn't get it. There's a comment from Carl
who was obviously having a commenting day and good for him. Interesting episode, you said.
Interesting ideas. I really enjoyed this episode and got a bit emotional at the end, which was
unexpected. Cool. That's the first one, not this episode needed in order to, indeed, interest
to hackers. Yes, indeed. Well, actually, I found it interesting because I found after the show that
I paused my music player and went thinking for a while. So, that's always a good, I see
Uranus turned up late again. Yeah, well, sorry about that. We might have started early Uranus.
No, no, no, you're late. Oh, you're late, yeah. Yeah, rather than, okay, go ahead, make my day,
yeah. Okay. That's what friends are for, right? Yes, exactly. So anyway, yeah, my talk was the
first one this month. So, you already covered that, I guess. Yeah, we did. We pretty much
criticized just saying that sucks in the blows. Yeah, I read that. Yeah.
So, well, I'll listen to the recording of this and in due time, I'll respond to that then.
Obviously, trolling as a way forward. Yeah, yeah, trolling forward. That's a new way. It's not paying
forward, but trolling forward. Okay. Exactly. I've just realized that, you know, if I troll you in
the common section that you you end up doing more shows, so, you know, it's nothing personal.
Oh, it's just your, well, a sympathetic is not the word I was looking for, but it's your way to,
to make sure people make shows. Exactly. Whatever it takes you. Yeah, whatever it takes.
So, we're up to 2944, on the basics, part four, network flows and connections, a quick show for
Dave. And Dave, did this pass the, of interest hackers thing? Wow. It certainly did.
It's not a regional comment. I read my comment because I was, I was a bit gobsmacked by this.
So, I said, this is wonderful. Hi, Gabriel. It's been a busy month and I've only just caught up
with this show. I was just a couple of days ago. I'm amazed by what you've done. You know, I was
running the script while my family were visiting and can see you them checking Reddit and YouTube,
et cetera. I could see my main router doing its thing in my secondary router, which is used mainly
as a wireless access point and ethernet switch, also doing what it does. I was impressed. The display
showed the names I'd allocated and et cetera hosts. Now they have left. It's all a lot quiet with
my mail client checking various mail feeds and massed the dawn updating itself, fascinating.
I had fairly detailed look at your bachelors scripts and they're impressive. I should look
further later. As you say, Pearl perhaps would have been better, but it's great to see how powerful
and lightweight said and all can be. Thanks for putting this together. I really enjoyed this
episode. I was on the bus listening to this one and then either, no, no, I did this and then I thought
I could do it better. Oh, okay. Wow, it's, yeah, yeah. What can you say? It's astonishing stuff.
This is Annie is also fixed. Here's also fixed a patch so that it works on Fedora and I was also
anybody who had issues with this running on Fedora before they are gone.
Cool. Yes, I did an update. I knew it was a change when I updated the Git repository, but it didn't
pay much attention. So the following day we had my recordings of on-camp on Saturday and then
the day after that we had the Sunday ones. And then on the Monday, we had the Mimble Wimble
Protocol and this actually blew my mind. It might be Mike who is well into the old blockchain and
algorithms and stuff. And this one, this protocol attempts to deal with some of the issues that
uh, wow, there are issues with Bitcoin. It will never be accepted as a real currency because
of the way that international regulations are with relation to how laundered money is dealt with
so that if you laundered money and you have the proceeds, you can prove that the proceeds of that
if you make a transaction of which some of the transaction is made with uh, laundered money,
then all that transaction is believed to be tainted. And this is one of the issues in adopting
Bitcoin as a actual currency. And what this is trying to do is make it faster and more anonymous
for using uh, using online currencies, not that anybody would be using it for that very reason.
I imagine. No, no. But yes, it's a fascinating thing. And isn't he, uh, he's very obviously very,
very knowledgeable and uh, explained it really well. I don't feel like I fully understood it,
but I was on the way to understand it. Exactly. A few more shows of this. Keep, keep them coming in.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, excellent, excellent stuff. I had often wondered the point about the,
yeah, the, um, oh, now I'm losing my brain is dropping the, uh, the, the terminology,
but they're, they're issues with the Bitcoin stuff because you're passing around all of the
transactions all the time to everybody and it gets, it's gonna get unmanageable. Is it not?
Is that, I've got that right? Well, it's, it's very slow to do, to do the transactions, but
furthermore, it's, um, you can always trace back a transaction. Mm-hmm. So all the details of,
if you, if I bought a bar, chucked it off you 10 years ago, you could, that transaction is logged
and open available in the public, for anyone to see, which is why I never understood when people
said that, uh, Bitcoin is an anonymous way to pay a distance. It's everything, uh, every purchase
of everybody is available. It's, it's a really weird, um, really weird system, money system.
Yes. Yes. It's, it's interesting. Don't get me wrong. It's interesting, but, um, yeah.
To have a, have a trace, a way of tracing back to, to year one and also the amount of work
that's involved in maintaining that or moving it about, I could never quite understand why,
why you would, why you would do that. It's like having your ancestors' memory and your,
and your brain, forever, your brain gets unmanageable. However, my other issue with Bitcoins and
other currencies is it's, uh, environmentally a waste of energy. Literally, it is a waste of energy,
data centers popping out, wasting energy when they could have met that the, the mining aspect is
doing something productive, like searching for, for, for us to live or, or better yet, um, you know,
folding at home projects, stuff like that. Think of all the wasted transactions, processing
power that's going on just stupid for, you know, or to prove something or other. Well, you know,
if you, yeah, I don't know, there, there's got to be a better way of, of, um,
utilizing that waste of processing power that would benefit society as well as proving something.
Anywho, we'll move on to the next day. I was intrigued. Just, just going back to your,
your interviews at Old Camp. Not, not to, not to dwell on them, but you spoke to a guy about FPGA,
and um, he was talking about ASIC, and ASIC in, is very relevant to, uh, all this blockchain stuff
because ASIC is, uh, application-specific integrated circuits, I believe. And, uh, so a lot of,
does that mean that a lot of hardware has been built specifically to, to do these types of,
Bitcoin and similar mining. Um, and, uh, which is all fine and dandy, I'm sure, and it,
maybe it's led onto all sorts of other side effects and so on, which are beneficial. But, um,
a member Wimble is blocking it specifically because, because, you know, you haven't got a static,
you haven't got a reference base, you haven't got a sort of, uh, foundation to work from.
So, yeah, I just joined the two, the two, uh, shows together, and I was interested in FPGA as well.
I'll just go back and tell people who I interviewed on those days. We had, uh, first of all,
we had, um, an interview with, uh, Tim Timmy's script, which, who has not done a show yet.
An ambient show would be, uh, that is not, there's not without trying, I can guarantee you that.
Um, I've hinted at it several times since, uh, yes. So we had an, um, we talked to the guys from
the matrix, um, protocol, uh, we talked interview with my storm, which is about the FPGA that you were
discussing, and we also talked to Eric from the free software foundation Europe, those were released
on the 15th, and then the Sunday we had, um, a chat with a, um, Mike from an electric flag,
flap, jack, nice guitars. He's in your, uh, low-go, I believe?
No, um, no, no, no, it just, um, just happened that the guy who runs, uh, the Edinburgh,
and it's user group, was at the, at the store with Grumpy Mike, I think, or maybe both of them,
at the time you were passing by. So, yeah, I think you were just an interested by a standard.
Cool. And then we had, uh, Grumpy Mike, who, who was there, and, uh, about his, uh, doing accessibility
music, um, for people who either have lost the ability to play music through some, uh, an injury or,
or, you know, something shitty happening in their life, um, which is an official medical term,
and, uh, accessibility issues. He's got some books and stuff, so it's pretty, pretty impressive,
what he has put together, and lots of photos of that. And then we had, uh, chat with the Open
Rights group, and Manchester Greyhats about who were, therefore, flaw-con, uh, as well as on camp.
It was good to see lot picking at, um, yeah, at our camp. I don't think that'd ever happen before.
I think it should be, be there as a, as a standard thing, because it's very, very cool.
I, uh, he was nice enough to show me a tip for, uh, my own kids were picking a see-through luck,
and then he was going, well, see-through lucks are actually quite bad to start off with, because
you're holding it the wrong way, whereas if you do it with another, um, I know that if you hold it
correctly, then it's a lot easier to pick. That was a good tip. Yeah, I had that, and, uh, I have
just the same thing. And, uh, yeah, and it's, it's, it's a bit of a cheat, I think, in many ways. My
daughter said, oh, that looks easy and walked up to the see-through luck and put one of these rakes.
You know, there's a device called a rake. You just stick it in there and rattle it about a bit,
and then the thing pops open. So, so, um, yeah, there they are. It's, it's not, not, uh, not the best
thing to, to learn, I'm sure. It's going by that. Following me, uh, testing with Hascal,
HitSpec and QuickCheck, where Tukutoruto talks about unit tests, property-based testing,
uh, testing with databases and testing APIs. All of this was just interesting from a DevOps
point of view. Anyway, but particularly interesting because of the Hascal aspect. And if people
would like to do shows about testing in general and QA and quality control, that would be
extremely awesome. And the advantages of using one type of test over another, including,
but not, uh, not limited to, obviously, testing tools that are available and in use in the public
at large. Yes, indeed, indeed. It was, it was a good show. I thought it, it, he explained
what he was about very well, and so that I don't understand the Hascal solutions too,
particularly, but, uh, you know, knowing, knowing what watch it's meant to do helps to, to understand
it a bit more. Thank you. So the following day, we had Grim and Bean, two major Mimble Wimble
Protocol blockchains. And this is, by the way, another downside of having to do the introductions
is I need to pronounce the words without help from you to Mimble Wimble hours, hours practicing
that one. And yeah, yeah. If you've been a Harry Potter fan, you'd have, yeah, it's straight away,
it goes with, well, I am, boss, uh, yeah. No, neither, neither did I. It's just a word. And
to say, what is it? I don't, I've forgotten that it even existed, having read all the books to
my kids and their younger, et cetera, et cetera. But yeah, anyway, go ahead. So yes, um, again,
two different approaches and, uh, two, two very, very interesting ways of, uh, one being private
and the other one being, uh, a public approach to those. So I already commented on the previous
episode. So I, I'm more or less commenting on both of those together. Yeah, I went and looked at,
I did some Google searches of Mimble Wimble and Grim and Bean stuff just to see if they were
there were any, uh, good overviews and there are several actually. And got a little bit more inside
into it. Um, and, uh, uh, might be Mike's, uh, talk again, which was very good. I found that, uh,
it gave, gave a lot of the major aspects of these things. Don't understand it, but I'm on the
way to things I've said that several times tonight. But it's true. So the following day we had a
hooker with, um, not Petya and Mark's, an object lesson looking to the object lessons for IT
management processes and the cost of failures. Basically, uh, how one virus attacker, uh,
brought down an entire international operation costing billions of dollars,
which was an interesting show. Yes, yes. I looked at his, he tends to write out quite comprehensive
notes on his own, uh, blog and look at them, uh, while ago actually. And, um, yeah, it was,
he, it does a great job of explaining these things, actually. And this, this was a, was a pretty
deadly problem and, uh, a great story. And I didn't know that a hooker was a, a history graduate
originally. That was quite an interesting thing to understand. I walk through my pie, face,
CAD, Python called part two. Oh, and I love this series. It's going on and on. This is, uh,
the Blink stick. You have one of those, don't you? I have two, uh, three, three. Yeah,
a lot of blinking going on here. But, uh, yeah, yeah. Um, yes, he's, he's doing some cool stuff here.
It's really, really impressive. Um, he included his, I'm trying to speak and scroll at the same time.
Yeah. It's, there was a lot. He did include his whole script, didn't he? Because I think I
sketched it into the notes. So, uh, yeah. So, so you can actually look at, look at them all in
context if you, if you wish. But, uh, yeah, it's, uh, I'm, I'm, yeah, I'm very impressed with this.
It's a, it's a good example of how you, how you put together, how you get over into your
solution. Yes, yes. When it's, it sounds like it's pretty much bulletproof. It's, uh, it's in a very
strong case. It's got, uh, it's got a display on the front of it. It's got lights that come on.
It's got buttons and it's, I think it's pretty cool. So the following day, we had another show by,
a certain Yerun button, uh, who continues to amaze me, uh, what he gets up to during his life.
Wait, wait, was that a compliment? Seven Yerun, I'm in all of you as you, as you well know, sir,
if you remembered me in the bar. A compliment. Well, that really shuts me up. Um, okay, yeah, sure.
Um, well, I, I, I was at Auch Camp and, you know, it's an on conference. So whatever comes to your
mind and you want to talk about, you'd like to talk about it. And I thought, well, I'm now riding my
ninth book and I really like books. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Yes, that's that. But, um, and I really like
this tool chain that I know I'm using for the last few books and a few last few years. And
since it's an on conference, I wanted to share, uh, what I learned. So, um, I rode it up on,
on the, on the board and low and behold, um, I was pretty much, well, not to, I was the second
session, I believe, um, or session, you know, the, the second time slot, um, I was allocated to,
to talk about it. So I did. And then I thought, well, if I do it here, I might just as well
record it at home and make a podcast out of it. Absolutely. Um, so far, no comments. So I hope
people enjoyed and everything is clear and dandy. Um, and, um, actually, I have, um, I, I have one
idea for another upcoming, uh, podcast. Um, uh, and that's the one where you're using Zebix for
monitoring and they have this feature, which is really not so clearly documented, which is called
low level discovery rules. And, um, uh, I'm going to, uh, to make a recording of that because I,
I dove into it. And then you find that it's pretty awesome. And you can do a lot of funny
sting, uh, fun things with it. And, um, uh, so that, that will be my next, uh, episode. And, uh,
uh, by all your questions you leave in the comments, I guess there will be a fourth, uh, episode of,
things, uh, follow, follow the firefighters, do or think or whatever. Yeah. Excellent. Yes.
Yerun, I got to the point of listening. I was very late listening to things this month. Got to
the point of listening to your show. And I always make myself notes about it. And then I think,
now, shall I do a comment or shall I talk about it on the community news?
Unfortunately, I didn't do a comment for you. I did one for an earlier show. But my notes say this,
excellent show. Yerun uses ASCII doctor generate books in BDF, get to keep version information,
inkscape for the covers and Lulu to print the books that result. And the result is fascinating
and is very, very impressive. I've used all of these things personally, apart from Lulu,
but I have not put them together in a, in a chain like this and thought of actually generating
a, a proper book. Um, so yeah, all power to you. Excellent work. Well, thank you so much. That's,
that's, yeah, thanks. Um, uh, the last month there was, uh, the NLUG conference in the Netherlands.
It stands for the Dutch user Unix Group, uh, of, of, uh, Unix professionals. Uh, so,
compared to people, um, focused on, as a hobbyist on Linux, they are, the guys, uh, doing this
as a day job. And, uh, there was this guy from Germany who was, um, uh, doing exactly the same
kind of, uh, topic. So using ASCII doctor and, uh, it was really fun to exchange a few,
a few things like, oh, uh, do you wrestle with this? Like, I do, yeah, I do, do you have no
solution? No, I don't. So, okay. So we, we, we know we're on equal footing and, um, um, it's nice to,
to meet somebody who is just as enthusiastic about this tool, tool, chain as I was. And he, uh, it's,
it's all, the, the basics of this is that you make your own sort of build script because,
well, compiling from ASCII doc to PDF, that, that's, that's all, you know, one command, that's easy,
but then it grows, you know, you, you want to, you start your build script with, for instance,
gathering data from a database and making a CSV file out of it and then turn that into XML or
transform it into, uh, ASCII doc table and then include that into your own ASCII doc, uh, uh, uh,
source code. So these build scripts, they kind of grow when you're, while you're, um,
writing your book. And at some point it's, the data is, is, is, comes from, uh, you could use
data from an open, open, uh, data source somewhere on the internet. And, um, let's say, make an update
of your book just with five minutes of, of running the, the, the build script and uploading a new PDF.
So that's pretty, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I'm, I'm with you. I look to ASCII doctor
as a way of making my HBO show notes. The thing, I, I didn't use it. I do use it daily to keep, uh,
journals of things that I do, but, um, the reason I didn't use it was because it, it makes some pretty
hairy looking, um, HTML, which we want, we wanted to avoid the more complex HTML. So I use
Markdown and Pandock to, to do the equivalent thing. But, um, uh, I have solved some of these issues
with my HPR stuff by having an intermediate stage where I take my markdown and I've got, um, elements
in it, which are expanded before it's passed to Pandock to generate the, the HTML that I'm making.
So in there, I can do things like call databases, read files, pick bits out of files, uh,
interrogate things on the web, et cetera, et cetera. And it's all driven by make file, um, and so on.
So, so you and I are obviously going along similar paths. So we should, we should exchange notes
at some point about this. Yeah, clearly, clearly. Yeah. It's, um, I really love this kind of
working and making a book out of it. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. Yeah. And in fact, I was telling my
daughter about this who's, who's currently doing an MSC in science communication and she wants to
write a book herself on some of the science that she's learned. And I said, well, there you go,
you should listen to your inshow and you might get some hints about ways in which you could do that.
So whether she will of course, there's another question, but, uh, but you never know. Yeah, well,
if she has any more questions, well, it's easy to contact me and she's, of course, very, very
welcome to do that and I'll answer her questions as well. Thank you. See, folks, he's a nice guy.
There you go again. Just when I was starting to like you a little bit, it's okay. I think it's,
now you definitely owe me another Greek restaurant. Well, not a restaurant, but, uh, dinner. Yeah,
definitely. Okay, moving on. Uh, 2, 9, 5, 3, how I got started in Linux.
This is a nice short show by Archer 72 and I love these ones. Yes, it was, it was great. Sorry,
took that moment to take a sip of that, uh, the stuff I've got in the glass here. Um, yeah,
I thought this was, this is great. I would love these, these sam journeys from Apple 2. I think you
said, uh, to Windows and Linux and stuff. It's always fascinating to hear how people have, uh,
have gone through this. This sort of stuff and over what period of time and so forth. So, yeah,
very good. I'd like to hear more, actually. I think it was at the end of the month, so
not that people have not had an opportunity to comment on the last few shows. So, uh, the next day
was the dude sent in wrestling as you like it, episode one. And I was strongly thinking,
this, is this going to be the first show that I'm, have zero interest in and it turned out to be
far from that. It turned out to be very, very interesting and, uh, uh, a topic that we have never
had on the HBR before. I'm looking forward to hearing more about pro wrestling. I know, I had a
similar sort of reaction. Well, yeah. But, um, when I was a kid, my family were very much into
the sort of pro wrestling that was, that was, uh, the thing in the UK. That would have been in the
19, 17, 18 giant haystacks, big daddy, all of these guys. We used to watch, watch every Saturday.
And, you know, the, you know, the family will be stuck around the telly yelling and shouting
throwing cushions at one another and whatever. And, uh, might do all those times have gone. I'm
much older now. And, uh, not, not looked at this sort of stuff for a long, long time. But,
it was really quite a nostalgic journey, I find. I'd like to know more about the
infrastructure in the USA. How, how to organize, you know, um, who, the, the people involved,
what, what sort of status do they have? Are they big celebrities? Are they just within the
wrestling world? All of those sorts of things. Bit more background would be amazing. Yeah. And
don't assume that just, uh, cause you're American that everybody knows this. You know, we don't
have access to the same cable channels that you guys do. So we'll describe what you think
is normal for everybody else. Indeed, indeed. Yes. That would be, that would be very much
appreciated. I'm sure by many people who are not USA based or even people who've not really
considered looking at wrestling in the USA. So the next day, we had, well, actually,
is the last one. And there's the first show by Danielle. And it was machine learning, data analysis
basics going, uh, her, uh, listen to this today, while the kids were doing horse running. And doing
different types of techniques for, um, your machine learning from the absolute simplest up to
multi-layer, um, multi-level perception techniques. Yeah.
I've got a lot of links there to Wikipedia as well. Yes. Yes. I started looking at the, so I haven't
had time, as you say, it's, it's close to the end of the month. Um, I had much time to, uh, to
delve. But it, it, great links. And thank you very much for that. Uh, Daniel, that's, uh, it's always
amazing. The useful to be able to, to follow the pointers that somebody puts down like that. Um,
my son's doing a AI degree at the moment. And he, uh, he tells me stuff that I don't understand. So
maybe some of this will, will help to, to fill in the gaps. And I think that was this for, uh,
the shows, but there is one comment on this. And it says, from be easy, welcome to the HPR
host crew. This was a great first episode. And I'm looking forward to the next one. I think you
already have submitted another show. I'm not mistaken. Yeah. It's, it's, um, I'm not, I don't have
the time to listen to every daily show, but I listened to this one. It was really, um,
um, uh, what's your word for it? In English. Um, and lightning, um, because it, it explains this
from, for somebody who isn't, or, uh, who, for who machine learning is not a day job, you know,
so it was, uh, and lightning to me, I learned, uh, some stuff. So it definitely a great, uh,
great thing. Now you have me wondering what the lightning is in the Netherlands.
Verlichtent. Okay. Yeah, that'll do. Speaking of the Netherlands, I'll do it in English. Um,
so you know that I started my first podcast after, um, the, the, the, um, uh, the 2018 edition of
ORC camp in, in Sheffield, uh, because some of you came to me and said, well, why don't you do your
talk in a podcast? And stuff has been happening since, you know, I've made a couple of podcasts.
I'll find and then do nothing to worry about yet. And then, um, I learned about this other
podcast in the Netherlands. It is in Dutch. It's called Angry Nerds. And I sort of squeezed myself
into this session with a couple of other guys that I sort of know professionally. And we make a
podcast. And it's also in YouTube. And now we make another one. It's monthly. And after a
couple of months, I'm becoming sort of a regular. And, um, it's fun to do too. But it all started
with ORC camp, Sheffield. And now with the Angry Nerds podcast in the Netherlands, um,
recently we got, uh, asked to, uh, travel to the south of Germany in March, where there's a
week-long conference for cloud suppliers to be there. The sort of Dutch interviewing team,
because they think we're funny. And, um, uh, so travel and lodging and accommodation is all,
all paid for. And which is, of course, it's sort of a free, free holiday, right? And you only
have to do the thing that you like to do in the evening. Um, but it all started with HBR,
H. Sheffield. And just wanted to share that with, uh, with you guys. Um, the royalty checks will
be flowing. There you go again. Uh, yeah, I'm still as broke as a bum. But, um, other than that,
I get, I get paid in food in March. Um, and the other thing is if you're located in the Netherlands,
and you like HBR and the subjects, and you're sort of a hacker, then there is the hacker hotel.
And it's a weekend. Uh, it's very easy to remember what day because it's a Valentine's day.
Um, it's a whole weekend for hackers. And, um, it's in a hotel. So, um, everything is taken care of.
And, um, yeah, I, it's not, yeah, I just thought I mentioned it. You know, I'm not evolved in,
in, in, in this financially otherwise. But, um, well, for people who are in the Netherlands,
I think, oh, that might be fun to, to go to. Then, well, there it is. Hacker hotel.l.l.
Thanks. Uh, can you send us two links, a link to that? And can you send us a link to your
other podcast, please? I will subscribe. Oh, yeah, sure. Um, I'll, I'll put them in the, in the,
here in the comments in a, in a second. No worries. Cool, because I was, uh, thinking, you know,
it's a pity there's no good Dutch, uh, tech podcast out there. And now at least there's a
Dutch tech podcast, whether it's good or not, we wait to see it. Well, it's, it, well, it's,
you know, it's called, it isn't called angry nerds for nothing. So we're, we're just, uh,
sometimes as a rant and, uh, it, it, it tries to sort of focus a little bit around privacy and,
and security. But, uh, for instance, we have this thing in the Netherlands with this new internet
provider and, and the old access for all who's sort of, um, going to vanish and people upset about
it. So there was a kickstarter project and they raised two and a half million euros in 48 hours.
Yeah. People are very annoyed. I'm one of those people who are very annoyed, but what, what's
happening in Texas for all? Yeah. Exactly. So, um, they, they had some three thousand investors
all coughing up in the total of two and a half million, because that's the max in the Netherlands,
due to regulation. Um, and, and even the organization never expected this. And in, um,
uh, one of those angry nerds, uh, sessions, we, uh, are talking to the new, uh, uh, director of,
of this, this new internet provider, freedom internet. Yeah. And, uh, and one of those, uh,
the, uh, herdeen is, is, well, I think she's sort of communication or something. But then, uh,
as a human, you know, it's not corporate communication with, where, where everything is,
um, stripped to the script of any feelings. But this is, you're, you're talking to a human. And, um,
uh, so we, we have some fun at the same time. And we even made a special episode because of that,
the, that success. And, um, well, people can still subscribe to, as, as a sort of early starter,
a package for 50 euros, if they like. And, um, uh, then you already get an email address. So you,
you can, uh, send everybody your email at freedom, uh, Donnell. And, um, yeah, it's, it's, um,
it's a, it's a, it's a nice to see that sort of adventure from, from close by and, and how they are,
uh, sort of starting in a, in a small cubicle with two chairs. And now they have an office with
10 chairs. And, um, uh, they're going to, um, acquire some hardware. Of course, because they
want to start being an internet provider. So, um, uh, uh, lots of questions, lots of questions by
people, uh, asking stings. They all get an answer, uh, usually the same days, sometimes 48 hours
later, simply because they're swarmed with, with questions. So it's, this is really sort of a life
in the heck I've seen in the Netherlands. And even beyond the heck I've seen, I mean, 3,000 people,
it's a pretty, pretty big crowd. Um, well, that's only the investors because the, uh, the 50 euro
startup, um, sort of subscription, uh, it's not a subscription, but the, um, the, the, the, the,
the first, um, first members, let's put it like that. Um, the, the, they have already passed the
10,000 edit was in a week. So, uh, yeah, the, it's, it's going, um, in a very, it's growing,
growing in a very positive way. Okay. Cool. Now, let's go and finish off, go back and talk about
comments for last month. Uh, only one was that corrective? Uh, there's only one comment. It's not,
yeah, yeah, it's not last month. It's, uh, 2014. Yep. Shall I do it? Yeah, please. Uh, it's Tim
to me, who is commenting on a show by a hooker, number 36 in Libra office, Calc. He says, hi,
a hooker. I just wanted to let you know that I use Tim to me who has yet to submit a show.
This is Tim to me yet to submit a show. Yeah, we've all, we, we've, we've, we've heard his voice.
We've seen his, um, his scripts, but no show. I mean, it seems very, very strange. And he's,
he's a, he's a man of a part. So, he has many, many skills. You just thought he'd be able to, uh,
turn on my back and just do his job about all these things that he knows. It's just very,
very significant number, you know, so even an onion to a soundscape on around the quarry,
that's all we want. Well, absolutely. That would, would that not be a wonderful thing?
Just turn on the audio pair, go into work, turn it off, submit it. Yeah. I think he's doing it deliberately
now because I'm asking him too often. Yes, yes. Anyway, he's mentioning a template that a hooker made
and included in this particular show. And Tim, Tim, he's saying, I just wanted to let you know
that I use this template a lot. I never studied business at school or even computing.
I guess if I taught myself the basics of both over the years, I liked the nice, clean,
simple area of your template that I presented it along with proposals to business professionals.
I've even received a comment from an asset finance manager that they liked, I've clear the
information had been laid out and presented without fluff trying to sugar coat figures. So,
here I am again, grabbing a clean template for another project. Thanks again, Tim to me.
This is really the sort of comments I love and all the episodes where you think,
nobody got anything out of my episodes and then you get a comment like this, this is just awesome.
Yeah, absolutely, absolutely. And I think Tim Tim, he's business is, is not tiny.
No, it's just, it's just by does not describe any part of his business.
No, some of the vehicles that he has that they're a gigantic in the sort of,
Dave, run up, stop, stop. Surely the best person to describe his
organization is Tim Tim himself. Do you know, you've made a good point there, Ken.
Definitely fascinating idea. Yeah. So, and listeners, anybody who wants to comment on this show,
please comment here to Tim Timmy and ask him to, to submit a show to us that will be absolutely
awesome. Yes. So, what are we missing, mailing list? That's right, yep. Oh yeah, postcard club,
Yirun has requested to, if people could send a postcard to his daughter, stepdaughter,
and the details are here. Do you want to, do you want to explain to Yirun that you're on,
or shall I do it? Well, it's, it's, it's, it's, it was sort of, it's sort of is something that has
ended. Yeah. Otherwise, we would get postcards, I guess, for the next years, which is of course,
I, I, I, I am. Well, don't know how to say this. Anyway. So, what we did, I can tell you,
what we did. She, she is born with spin a bifida. So, she is severely disabled, she's in a wheelchair,
and she's now 22 and in Netherlands you have eight categories of how much
care somebody needs and she's in the top level and she has been
living in sort of I don't know what it's not an institution but at the same time
sort of as just living yeah thanks as it living she's done that for last four
years and so far recently she developed her sixth pneumonia this year so
that's that's pretty heavy and just in the week where the rest of her mates would
all go to Disneyland in Paris and she had to stay home well because simply
she had pneumonia you can't go with pneumonia and of course she was saddened
by that and I offered her wouldn't it be nice if they of all your mates when
you read when they return you receive postcards as if you were on a trip of your
own throughout the world so just a message you know and all signed with Anushka
which is her name and people did so I posted a couple of photos with I think
rough guestments would be 20 to 30 postcards that we received and she was
incredibly happy with it and the fact that all these people did that for her
because at well when they did not know her so that was moving both to her but
also to others parents that people took the time to go to Google translate
enter some some text and translate it in Dutch and write this Dutch text on
the card yeah so she got this card these cards and after the after they all
returned from when a mates returned from Disneyland she had to go into the
hospital for a sort of an upgrade on her night breathing apparatus that's
going to a let's say a more complicated level and so we even sent by the time
they were arriving we took them from the place where she lived and brought it
to the hospital so she had some sort of little surprise of people she didn't
know and so many people I would like to thank and I hope everybody sent a card
listens to this I doubt it but it was it was an amazing experience but at the
same time it was also always meant to be a temporary a small project and and
friends that I was this policeman in the Netherlands who has a daughter of
three who developed a cute leukemia and they said well if you like send us a
postcard he got what's the word for it baskets full of full of cards of people
nobody's ever heard of and that was never the intention so this is absolutely
just fine and everybody who sent a card I thank you so so much and but it's I
think we have to draw this to a conclusion now and maybe so you know time
anymore yeah at this point exactly okay cool then corporate to was asking
about the new year show which obviously is going ahead apparently so they
as soon as December comes in I will put up the notice for that and Kevin will
be doing the streaming and honky is organizing again so it's awesome I don't
have to do anything and other big news I saw that there was a request for
stands open a fuss them and having been rejected two years in a row I didn't
expect to have anything come out of it so turns out that's this year they're
doing half the stands on both days and then a quarter of the stands on one day
and a quarter on the other day to allow more people to get exposure so we are
scheduled to be on the Sunday and by we I mean free liberal and source
podcast creative comes podcast as opposed to HPR obviously we'll be there
talking about HPR because we're free culture podcast what it is free culture
podcast and the idea being that you don't need to be subscribed on iTunes or an
Apple or on Spotify or any of the other sound cloud or whatever that you there
are other ways to get podcasts directly and if you want to listen to podcasts
here's the selection of music art entertainment tech podcast that you can
listen to and you yourself can get into podcasting here's how and here's
people who will help you do that so please first time is massive Dave yes it's
even more massive than when we were last there I'm sure it is 10,000 and I
think there was a last estimate wasn't it yeah so it's absolutely totally not I
will be there at least on the day I actually haven't budgeted to be there
but we'll make a work somehow I will be there at least on the day that we're
there and what I would like what I'm going to do this week and is send off
emails to people who I suggested this two years ago who are now there so that
they can send us stickers and swag and stuff for their booth so we'll also need
to get some booth stuff printed up I don't know if we're bringing the if anyone's
coming from the UK and can bring the booth kiss with them perhaps that's a
there's a thing yeah we'll have to talk about that one I would very much like to
to come but my my trip would be from Edinburgh to Brunswick so and the
booth kit is in Cornwall so I'm not sure we should anyway I'll talk to Tim
and it might just be easier to print off a few banners anyway because it's
not for it's not HBO or it's all the other shows so if yeah if you know I don't
know I didn't to be honest I didn't put a whole lot of faith into into the fact
that we were going to be doing this free culture podcast is probably not the
coolest name in the world but you know no domain name no nothing no mailing
list so I really need to get going on getting that in however if you listen to
this and you have a podcast and you've got swag you can send your stickers and
stuff to me as soon as possible and I will make sure that they're there on the
day and you can expect there to be thousands of people coming so it never stops
the whole day yeah it's it's like you said it's ten thousand of approximately
people all hackers walking around you have a multitude of lectures and they're
all actually they're all worthwhile to visit you just can't physically but you
learn so much in a weekend so the atmosphere is really geeky like you said
there are people putting their on a table exhibiting their projects like
HPR so I've been going for years and I will also be going this year I can't
make any guarantees if I can man the booth simply because of you know the
personal situation we always have but if everything goes as planned then I'll
definitely make some time available to to man the booth and help you because it
will be very very busy you're we're required to have two people there at all
times is the minimum and I know for a fact that that is not enough so if if you
are going to to foster them and you could help out for at least a few hours
during that Sunday that will be absolutely awesome if you could help out I do
really need people to step forward and help if you're going to foster if you're
not could you please go to foster and come help us on the Sunday okay so you
are looking for some people on Sunday and let's keep in touch on telegram and see
what time slot would be but not too but there are other other people as well
who've got podcasts and who will be promoting there so I'll be asking those
those people as well if they're if they're there and want to attend and also
getting stickers getting banners and all the rest of that good stuff yeah
definitely so events do what events there is only one thing coming up on the
lwn.net community calendar that's the open FinTech forum which is in New
York USA and the call for papers is a foster is let me see over minicom foster
picon and cubicon those are the ones Dave update on some of the tags well not
a lot of movement on the tag front I managed to do five at more at tags to five
shows in the past month so something but need to need to go at it more
determinedly over Christmas if I can I yeah I'm not suggesting anything because
if I suggest something I'll only disappoint myself and you okay that's I think
is it have I missed anything Dave I don't think so no I think we're good okay
tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of you rude hacker public radio
join us now and share the software you'll be free hackers you'll be free I
should get you speak that's how I should introduce all the shows from now this is
HBR community news for November 2019 HBR volunteers talk about shows released
and come as opposed yeah and then my wife will call the call the brigade to take
me all right guys thanks very much it's been a ball tune in tomorrow for another
exciting episode of hacker public radio I thought we already did that okay we did
it bye bye bye
you've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org we
are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through
Friday today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HBR listener like
yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our
contributing to find out how easy it really is Hacker Public Radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of
the binary revolution at binwreff.com if you have comments on today's show please
email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up
episode yourself unless otherwise status today's show is released on the
creative comments attribution share a light 3.0 license
